{"id": "8900119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8900119", "title": "1934 in radio", "text": "1934 in radio\n\nThe year 1934 in radio involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1305995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1305995", "title": "1973 in politics", "text": "1973 in politics\n\n\"See also:\" 1972 in politics, other events of 1973, 1974 in politics, list of years in politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "344687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344687", "title": "Al-Tabari", "text": "Al-Tabari\n\nAbū Jaʿfar Muḥammad ibn Jarīr al-Ṭabarī (; , ) (224–310 AH; 839–923 AD) was an influential Persian scholar, historian and exegete of the Qur'an from Amol, Tabaristan (modern Mazandaran Province of Iran), who composed all his works in Arabic.\nToday, he is best known for his expertise in Qur'anic exegesis, Islamic jurisprudence and world history, but he has been described as \"an impressively prolific polymath. He wrote on such subjects as poetry, lexicography, grammar, ethics, mathematics, and medicine.\"\n\nHis most influential and best known works are his Qur'anic commentary known as \"Tafsir al-Tabari\" and his historical chronicle \"Tarikh al-Rusul wa al-Muluk\" (History of the Prophets and Kings), often referred to \"Tarikh al-Tabari\". Although it eventually became extinct, al-Tabari's madhhab flourished among Sunni ulama for two centuries after his death. It was usually designated by the name Jariri.\n\nTabari was born in Amol, Tabaristan (some 20 km south of the Caspian Sea) in the winter of 838–9. He memorized the Qur'an at seven, was a qualified prayer leader at eight and began to study the prophetic traditions at nine. He left home to study in 236AH (850–851AD) when he was twelve. He retained close ties to his home town. He returned at least twice, the second time in 290AH (903AD) when his outspokenness caused some uneasiness and led to his quick departure.\n\nHe first went to Rayy (Rhages), where he remained for some five years. A major teacher in Rayy was Abu Abdillah Muhammad ibn Humayd al-Razi, who had earlier taught in Baghdad but was now in his seventies. While in Ray, he also studied Muslim jurisprudence according to the Hanafi school. Among other material, ibn Humayd taught Jarir Tabari the historical works of ibn Ishaq, especially \"al-Sirah\", his life of Muhammad. Tabari was thus introduced in youth to pre-Islamic and early Islamic history. Tabari quotes ibn Humayd frequently, but little is known about Tabari's other teachers in Rayy.\n\nTabari then travelled to study in Baghdad under ibn Hanbal, who, however, had recently died (in late 855 or early 856). Tabari possibly made a pilgrimage prior to his first arrival in Baghdad. He left Baghdad probably in 242 A.H. (856–7) to travel through the southern cities of Basra, Kufah and Wasit. There, he met a number of eminent and venerable scholars. In addition to his previous study of Hanafi law, Tabari also studied the Shafi'i, Maliki and Zahiri rites. Tabari's study of the latter school was with the founder, Dawud al-Zahiri, and Tabari hand-copied and transmitted many of his teacher's works. Tabari was, then, well-versed in four of the five remaining Sunni legal schools before founding his own independent, yet eventually extinct, school. His debates with his former teachers and classmates were known, and served as a demonstration of said independence. Notably missing from this list is the Hanbali school, the fourth largest legal school within Sunni Islam in the present era. Tabari's view of Ibn Hanbal, the school's founder, became decidedly negative later in life. Tabari did not give Ibn Hanbal's dissenting opinion any weight at all when considering the various views of jurists, stating that Ibn Hanbal had not even been a jurist at all but merely a recorder of Hadith.\n\nOn his return to Baghdad, he took a tutoring position from the vizier, Ubaydallah ibn Yahya ibn Khaqan. This would have been before A.H. 244 (858) since the vizier was out of office and in exile from 244 to 248 (858–9 to 862). There is an anecdote told that Tabari had agreed to tutor for ten dinars a month, but his teaching was so effective and the boy's writing so impressive that the teacher was offered a tray of dinars and dirhams. The ever-ethical Tabari declined the offer saying he had undertaken to do his work at the specified amount and could not honourably take more. That is one of a number of stories about him declining gifts or giving gifts of equal or greater amount in return.\n\nIn his late twenties, he travelled to Syria, Palestine and Egypt. In Beirut, he made the highly significant connection of al-Abbas b. al-Walid b. Mazyad al-'Udhri al-Bayruti (c.169-270/785-6 to 883–4). Al-Abbas instructed Tabari in the Syrian school's variant readings of the Qur'an and transmitted through his father al-Walid the legal views of al-Awza'i, Beirut's prominent jurist from a century earlier.\n\nTabari arrived in Egypt in 253AH (867), and, some time after 256/870, he returned to Baghdad, possibly making a pilgrimage on the way. If so, he did not stay long in the Hijaz. Tabari had a private income from his father while he was still living and then the inheritance. He took money for teaching. Among Tabari's students was Ibn al-Mughallis, who was also a student of Tabari's own teacher Muhammad bin Dawud al-Zahiri; Ibn al-Mughallis lavished Tabari with almost excessive praise. He never took a government or a judicial position.\n\nTabari was some fifty years old when al-Mu'tadid became caliph. He was well past seventy in the year his \"History\" was published. During the intervening years, he was famous, if somewhat controversial, personality. Among the figures of his age, he had access to sources of information equal to anyone, except, perhaps, those who were directly connected with decision making within the government. Most, if not all, the materials for the histories of al-Mu'tadid, al-Muktafi, and the early years of al-Muqtadir were collected by him about the time the reported events took place. His accounts are as authentic as one can expect from that period.\n\nTabari's final years were marked by conflict with the Hanbalite followers of Al-Hasan ibn 'Ali al-Barbahari, a student of the students of Ibn Hanbal. Tabari was known for his view that Hanbalism was not a legitimate school of thought, as Ibn Hanbal was a compiler of traditions and not a proper jurist. The Hanbalites of Baghdad would often stone Tabari's house, escalating the persecution to the point where Abbasid authorities had to subdue them by force. The Baghdad chief of police tried to organize a debate between Tabari and the Hanbalites to settle their differences. While Tabari accepted, the Hanbalites did not show up but instead came later to pelt his house with stones again. The constant threat of violence from the Hanbalites hung over Tabari's head for the rest of his life.\n\nTabari finally died on February 17, 923. Abbasid authorities actually buried Tabari in secret as they feared mob violence by the Hanbalites. Regardless, Tabari was remembered positively by contemporaries such as Ibn Duraid, and the Hanbalites were condemned by Abbasid authorities in their entirety for persecuting opponents, roughly a decade later.\n\nHe is described as having a dark complexion, large eyes and a long beard. He was tall and slender and his hair and beard remained black until he was very old. He was attentive to his health, avoiding red meat, fats and other foods he deemed unhealthy. He was seldom sick before his last decade when he suffered from bouts of pleurisy. When he was ill, he treated himself (to the approval of physicians). He had a sense of humour, though serious subjects he treated seriously. He had studied poetry when young and enjoyed writing, reciting and participating in poetic exchanges. It is said that he was asked in Egypt about al-Tirimmah and was able to recite this 7th century poet's work for Egyptians who had merely heard al-Tirimmah's name.\nHe was witty and urbane, clean and well mannered. He avoided coarse speech, instead displaying refined eloquence. He had a good grounding in grammar, lexicography and philology. Such were considered essential for Qur'anic commentary. He knew Persian and was acquainted with the origins of various foreign loan words in Arabic from a number of other languages.\n\nHe died in Baghdad on February 17, 923.\nAl-Tabari wrote history, theology and Qur'anic commentary. His legal writings were published first and then continued to appear throughout his life. Next were his commentaries on the Qur'an. Lastly, his history was published. His biographers stress his reverence for scholarship and his keen intent to offer his readers hard fact.\n\nHe did not hesitate to express his independent judgement (\"ijtihad\"). He stated his assessment as to which of the sources he cited was accurate. This was more understandably an aspect of his theology than of his history. This does not mean he saw himself as innovative. On the contrary, he was very much opposed to religious innovation. The story goes that when he was near death ibn Kamil suggested he forgive his enemies. He said he was willing to do so, except for the person who had described him as an innovator. In general Tabari's approach was conciliatory and moderate, seeking harmonious agreement between conflicting opinions.\n\nInitially he identified as a Shafi'ite in Fiqh law and Shafi'ites were happy to have him so considered. He was later seen as having established his own school. Although he had come to Baghdad in youth to study from Hanbal, he incurred the vehement wrath of the Hanbalites. Tabari's madhhab is usually designated by the name Jariri after his patronymic. However, in the keenly competitive atmosphere of the times, his school failed to endure.\n\nWhile we still lack a satisfactory scholarly biography of this remarkable scholar, interested readers now have access to a meticulous and well-annotated translation of the sections from al-Tabari's chronicle, which constitute the most important primary source for the\nhistory of his reign. Anyone familiar with al-Tabari's chronicle knows what a formidable challenge it poses for a translator, especially for one attempting to make it accessible to an audience that includes non-specialists. There is, first of all, the obstacle of al-Tabari's Arabic prose, which varies greatly in style and complexity according to the source he is using (and apparently quoting verbatim). The sections in the McAuliffe translation, drawn mostly from al-Mada'ini and 'Umar ibn Shabba, do not represent the most obscure passages to be found in al-Tabari, but they are nonetheless full of linguistic ambiguities and difficulties for the translator.\n\nHe wrote extensively; his voluminous corpus containing three main titles:\n\n\nThe first of the two large works, generally known as the \"Annals\" (Arabic \"Tarikh al-Tabari\"). This is a universal history from the time of Qur'anic Creation to 915, and is renowned for its detail and accuracy concerning Muslim and Middle Eastern history. Tabari's work is one of the major primary sources for historians.\n\n\nHis second great work was the commentary on the Qur'an, (Arabic \"Tafsir al-Tabari\"), which was marked by the same fullness of detail as the \"Annals\". Abul-Qaasim Ibn 'Aqil Al-Warraq (رحمه الله) says: \" Imām Ibn Jarir (رحمه الله) once said to his students: “Are you all ready to write down my lesson on the Tafsir (commentary) of the entire Holy Quran?\" They enquired as to how lengthy it would be. \"30 000 pages\"! he replied. They said: \"This would take a long time and cannot be completed in one lifetime. He therefore made it concise and kept it to 3000 pages (note, this was in reference to the old days when they used ink and hard-paper which was a bit long format today). It took him seven years to finish it from the year 283 until 290. It is said that it is the most voluminous Athari Tafsir (i.e., based on hadith not intellect) existent today so well received by the Ummah that it survived to this day intact due to its popularity and widely printed copies available worldwide. Scholars such as Baghawi and Suyuti used it largely. It was used in compiling the Tafsir ibn Kathir which is often referred to as Mukhtasar Tafsir at-Tabari.\n\n\nA persual of Tabari shows that in fact he relied on a variety of historians and other authors such as Abu Mihnaf, Sayf b. 'Umar, Ibn al-Kalbi, 'Awana b. al-Hakam, Nasr b. Muzahim, al-Mada'ini, 'Urwa b. al-Zubayr, al-Zuhri, Ibn Ishaq, Waqidi, Wahb b. Munabbih, Ka'b al-Ahbar, Ibn al-Matni, al Haggag b. al-Minhal, Hisham b. 'Urwa, al-Zubayr b. Bakkar and so forth, in addition to oral accounts that were circulating at the time.\nIn recounting his history, Tabari used numerous channels to give accounts. These are both channels that are given by the same author in a work, such as for example three different accounts that start with the isnad al-Harita.\n\nIt is thus an extremely early witness to the reception of al-Tabari's text-indeed much earlier than the sources that are customarily pressed into service to improve our understanding of the \"Ta'rikh al-rusul wa-l-muluk\", e.g., Miskawayh, Ibn 'Asakir, Ibn al-Athir, and Ibn Khallikan. Second, since al-Azdi was writing in the decades following al-Tabari, his \"Ta'rikh\" can say something about the reception of al-Tabari's \"Ta'rikh\" among those who immediately followed the great master. That al-Tabari's history was immensely significant we can all agree; but as to precisely how he became so significant there is no clear consensus.8 Third-and returning to Forand's insight-al-Azdi frequently drew on the same authorities tapped by al-Tabari, but whose works are for the most part now lost, such as Abu Ma'shar (170/786), Abu Mikhnaf (157/774), al-Haytham ibn 'Adi (207/822), al-Mada'ini (around 228/843), and 'Umar ibn Shabba (262/878).\n\nIn 78.29 the Qur'an says \"each thing we enumerate as [or in] a kitab\", and al-Tabari appends to the verse by way of elaboration\n\"its number, its amount, and its extent-the knowledge of (any) thing does not escape us\" (XXX: 10). This might suggest that al-Tabari considered kitab merely as a metaphor for Allah's knowledge. However, from al-Tabari's comments elsewhere on Allah's knowledge it is quite evident that he is not speaking metaphorically. For example, in 35.11 where the Qur'an states that the length or shortness of a person's life is in a kitab is explained by al-Tabari as \"it is in a kitab with Allah, written (\"maktab\") which he computes and knows\" (XXII: 71-2).\n\nAl-Tabari reports that al-Mahdi was just about to promote Harun as heir apparent ahead of Musa when he died, and adds by way of corroboration another report that al-Mahdi set off for Masabadhan in a great hurry. However, it may be doubted that al-Mahdi at the time shared the reporter's subsequent knowledge of his imminent demise there, and none of the other reported circumstances of his death suggest that he was in a hurry to go anywhere. On the contrary, the sources in general make it clear that he had gone to Masabadhan for recreation, and they occasionally say so explicitly. Al-Tabari does say explicitly that envoys were sent to the provinces, where they obtained the oath of allegiance not only to al-Hadi as caliph but also to Harun as heir apparent (\"wali l-'ahd\") (38). This was probably the first occasion on which Harun was so acknowledged. Harun himself, with the advice of al-Rabi', sent out these envoys, and all of this must have been presented to his brother on his return as a fait accompli.\n\nAfter so many exchanges of recrimination with his own men, and after various attempts to regroup what was becoming a progressively disorderly army, 'Ali is reported by Tabari in a most revealing passage to have explained his acceptance of the arbitration as such: \"It is no sin but only a failure of judgement.\" Nothing sums up the moral and religious complexity of the situation better than this sentence. The group that made a big issue of 'Ali's dilemma were the Kharijites, who for reasons of their own could see clearly the religious and political issues involved, who agreed neither with 'Ali nor with his opponent but were in turn incapable of administering a polity of their own. Tabari's account also brings that out very clearly when he relates (p. 115) how the assembled Kharijites, who were quite willing to expound the reasons for their recession from 'Ali's forces, would one by one refuse to take the leadership of their own group, a situation quite characteristic of religious purists when confronted with \"dirty\" politics.\n\nRealistic depictions alternate with formalized and archetypal narrative.\nTabari is careful to give his reports of these conquests a religious frame (expressions such as \"Nu'aym wrote to 'Umar about the victory that God had given him\" [pp. 25–26] abound), though it is worth noting that Tabari describes the initiation of the campaign in pragmatic rather than ideological terms. He states that 'Umar's decision to invade came as a result of his realization \"that Yazdajird was making war on him every year and when it was suggested to him that he would continue to do this until he was driven out of his kingdom\" (p. 2). The religious frame in Tabari's account is therefore not inflexible or exclusive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45467653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45467653", "title": "Angelets", "text": "Angelets\n\nThe Angelets, or “the Angelets of the Earth” (in Catalan, \"“els Angelets de la Terra”\"), were peasants who rose up from 1667 to 1675 against the French authorities of the Roussillon province. The group of conflicts of the period is subsumed under the name of “the Revolt of the Angelets”. The cause was the instituting of the gabelle (salt tax) in 1661 — a measure contrary to traditional constitutions of the earldom (the earldom of Roussillon and Cerdanya, the lands of the crown of Majorca from 1276 to 1344).\n\nThe revolt first concerned the county of Vallespir, then it won those of Conflent and Roussillon.\n\nThe reason why the revolts are referred to as “angelets” is unknown. One of the explanations advanced is the popular belief according to which the angels know the mountains well; another is the faculty that they have of appearing and disappearing.\n\nAs for the word \"“miquelets,”\" it refers primarily to Catalan mercenaries but sometimes to armed peasants. There is thus confusion among the ancient authors, particularly in relation to the war of Holland: They designate under the name “\"miquelets\"” all those who, in the province of Roussillon, oppose the king of France — though it be angelets or Catalan mercenaries in the service of the king of Spain.\n\nArchangel Michael is the patron saint of the miquelets and the wool-workers of Prats-de-Mollo, he who gave a sacred tint to one revolt that reclaimed liberties with the patriotic cry of \"“Visca la terra!”\" (“Long live the Land!”)\n\nOn May 8, 1659, the Catalan Revolt came to an end, and on November 7, the Treaty of the Pyrenees was signed between the Spanish and the French monarchies. The agreement notably foresaw a sharing of the principality of Catalonia between the two sovereigns. The crown of France annexed five comarques (corresponding to the two Counts, minus lower Cerdanya and Llívia):\n\n\nLouis XIV engaged himself with respecting the local customs. But, since June 1660, he replaced Catalan institutions and agencies with his own political, judiciary, and fiscal structures. He created a sovereign Council at Perpignan. Then he named a steward.\n\nResistance to the new master began in March 1661. Having come to settle a disagreement between the inhabitants of Ayguatébia and those of Oreilla, the viguier (magistrate) Marsal was violently attacked. He succeeded in escaping, but the notary and the domestic who accompanied him were killed. Immediately, the comarque of Conflent was subjected to a tax intended to pay the sometent français (the militia).\n\nThe gabelle, a tax on salt, had been abolished by the Catalan courts since the time of King James II of Majorca, in 1283. In 1661, the French reestablished it. Its revenue was intended to finance the maintenance and construction of fortresses, as well as the payment of French functionaries. The measure was very unpopular. The king of France’s misuse of this tax’s revenue — to the detriment of Perpignan, which was only cashing an insignificant part of it — was considered an abjuration of the royal oath to respect the capital privileges of the comarque of Roussillon. The consuls of Perpignan protested. But the sovereign Council’s decision rejected the municipal complaint and imposed the will of the Louvre.\n\nIn Vallespir, a country of pastures, salt was necessary for feeding livestock and preserving meat. The inhabitants sent for it from the other side of the wholly new border. The tax made its price rise inordinately. In 1667, the peasants of Vallespir refused to pay it.\n\nSmuggling was organized. The inspectors tracked down the traffickers in order to try to put an end to this activity. The peasants reacted, transforming themselves into veritable guerrilla fighters, harassing the French soldiers and especially the functionaries of the salt tax. An armed resistance was organized under the leadership of Joseph of Trinxeria, a merchant of Prats-de-Mollo.\n\nThe insurgents spread themselves in the county of Vallespir. In 1667, they hid in the villages of Serralongue and Montferrer. The following year, they attacked the hotel of Amélie-les-Bains, where the tax collectors are housed. They besieged the deputy provost Maniel in the church of Saint-Laurent-de-Cerdans. The repression did not rest: eight inhabitants were condemned to death and 51 put into slavery. This did nothing to discourage the smugglers.\n\nThe president of the sovereign Council, the collaborator Francesc de Segarra, offered a reward of 100 gold \"doubles tournois\" (coins) to whoever would give information against the leaders of the resistance. On September 14, 1668, he left with 300 soldiers to make base at Arles in order to begin a harsh suppression. The punitive expedition was routed at Llop pass and had to retreat to Arles.\n\nFor several years, the rebels, knowing the terrain well, inflicted substantial losses on the French troops. From August 3, 1667 to June 30, 1668, they also pursued and eliminated a good number of salt tax inspectors.\n\nThe authorities of the salt tax resolved to negotiate: The armed struggle ceased and, in exchange, the townships of Vallespir could obtain smuggled salt. Through the “Compromise of Céret,” the salt tax inspectors began to put an end to the controls and to coordinate with the council of each village, as to who would be charged from then on with the distribution of salt to the inhabitants.\n\nIn 1669, in Conflent, Joan Miquel Mestre, called “the Righteous Heir,” demanded a similar arrangement for Baillestavy. From September to November, he kept track of the customs officers. It was at that moment that the revolts were referred to under the name of “angelets.” Mestre was stopped by chance on the road from Camprodon on January 22, 1670 by the governor of Prats-de-Mollo. This set off a revolt on the part of the inhabitants, led by Josep de la Trinxeria and his lieutenant Damià Nohell, son of the mayor of Serralongue. They took the governor’s wife and children hostage and negotiated their release in return for that of the Righteous Heir. The exchange completed, the angelets returned via the Tech, seeing their troops grow to 1,500 men.\n\nAt this moment the revolt not only began again but also intensified considerably. The fighting stretched to all of Vallespir: On February 27, 1670, the insurgents seized Arles, from which they chased the garrison and killed the mayor. From March 31 to April 2, they besieged Céret, the capital of Vallespir.\n\nThe angelets held the high valley of Tech as well as Conflent. This was when the French sent an army of 4,000 soldiers. Avoiding offering an easy target on the route from the valley, they progressed through the mountains of Haut-Conflent that separated the two comarques, in order to take Vallespir from the rear. The technique of guerrilla warfare did not allow for maintaining a lined-up battle, on open terrain, facing a complete army: On May 5, the angelets were defeated at the Queen’s Pass, at the food of the Guillem Flat. Some took refuge in the principality of Catalonia; others hid in the mountains. The last bastion of the angelets having been defeated, the village of Py was sentenced to be razed. Salt had to be scattered over its ruins.\n\nHostilities were revived by the Franco-Dutch War (1672–78), of which the Spanish front became one of the theaters. The struggle of the population then took the character of an anti-French uprising. The angelets collaborated with the Spanish monarchy (1673).\n\nThe village and church of Ayguatébia were burned by French troops on February 7, 1673.\n\nThe year 1674 was particularly difficult for the French, in the province of Roussillon. They would face conspiracies (Villefranche and Perpignan) and an entry of Spanish troops.\n\nThe angelets were involved in the Villefranche Conspiracy, which aimed to reunite the Counties at the principality of Catalonia, on “Holy Saturday” in 1674.\n\nThe conspiracy was discovered. Its leader, Manuel Descatllar, was arrested. He was transferred to Perpignan where, under terrible torture, he confessed all his activities. He was executed in the square of La Loge on April 20, 1674. As for his companion Francesc Puig i Terrats, he was condemned to death and had his throat cut in public, in front of his own house, on May 16. His body was quartered. The four parts of him were exhibited at four points in the city. Many other conspirators paid for their involvement through the loss of their civic and patrimonial rights.\n\nThe population was always in question. The king of Spain’s troops crossed the frontier and took the fort of Bellegarde (beginning 1674). They controlled a great part of the province (Cerdagne and Vallespir, a part of Roussillon and of Conflent) after they won the Battle of Maureillas over the French army on July. It was only in 1675 that the Count of Schomberg, taking advantage of the Spanish withdrawal of troops to face the recent Revolt of Messina, took back Bellegarde and routed them once and for all.\n\nThe region was now overrun with the French troops. The repression reached the whole population: imprisonment, sentencing to the galleys, executions, confiscation of goods, and heavy fines imposed on the communes (that of Prats-de-Mollo was of 3,500 pounds, that of Saint-Laurent was of 1,600 pounds).\n\nThe revolt of the angelets was considered finished in 1675.\n\nThe hatreds were so exacerbated, and the cost of suppression was so high, that Louis XIV tried to exchange the Counties in return for Flanders. But Charles II of Spain refused.\n\nThe revolt being completely put out, the king of France renounced this exchange during negotiations of the Treaty of Nijmegen, which put an end, in 1678, to the Franco-Dutch War.\n"}
{"id": "13227868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13227868", "title": "Banknotes of Demerary and Essequibo", "text": "Banknotes of Demerary and Essequibo\n\nBanknotes of Demerary and Essequibo, issued from 1809 through 1839 were dual-denominated in Guilders and \"Joes\", a term used by the British colonists to refer to the Portuguese gold Johannes coin and the notes that eventually replaced them. Despite roughly 30 years of use, the only \"Joes\" known to exist are unissued remainders from the 1830s.\n\nDating back to at least 1798, the main unit of monetary exchange in the colonies of Demerara and Essequibo was the Portuguese gold Johannes coin which were valued at 22 Dutch guilders. Exchange rates in the United States in 1797 valued the Portuguese Johannes at $16 (the Spanish doubloon at $14.93, and the English silver shilling at $0.22). Due to clipping and boring (replaced with brass or copper) these coins (colloquially referred to as a \"Joe\") began to lose their intrinsic value. An initial attempt was made to counterstamp or chop mark valid coins. Eventually (1809) the coins were recalled by the authorities and paper currency, denominated in both Guilders and \"Joes\" were issued.\n\nThe new paper issue of 1809 introduced 50,000 \"Joes\" equivalent to 1,100,000 guilders. This was followed by an additional 25,807 \"Joes\" in 1815–16, and 24,193 more in 1824 for a total circulation of just under 100,000 \"Joes\". Deemed to be a legal tender, the notes were partially backed by securities in London, though their ability to be redeemed for gold was questionable.\n\nBy 1837, records indicate that 99,989 \"Joes\" had been issued in the following denominations: 1 \"Joe\" (13,258 notes), 2 \"Joes\" (8,189), 3 \"Joes\" (4,201), 5 \"Joes\" (3,150), 10 \"Joes\" (1,700), and 20 \"Joes\" (1,250). By 1839, there had been reference to a \"half-Joe\".\n\nThe Standard Catalog of World Paper Money lists only the unissued remainders of the 1830s. The two issues are distinguished by several design features including an ornate D-E in the upper center (first issue) or a woman with an anchor in the upper left (second issue). In addition, the wording of the denomination differs between the series. The first issue lists two denominations: 1 \"Joe\" or 22 Guilders and 10 \"Joes\" or 220 Guilders; the second issue lists four denominations: 1 \"Joe\" of 22 Guilders, 2 \"Joes\" of 22 Guilders each, 3 \"Joes\" of 22 Guilders each, and 10 \"Joes\" of 22 Guilders each. The illustrated 20 \"Joe\" note is a recent discovery (for the 1830s issue) in the National Numismatic Collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "46356653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46356653", "title": "Barbara Craig", "text": "Barbara Craig\n\nBarbara Denise Craig (née Chapman; 22 October 1915 – 25 January 2005) was a British archaeologist, classicist, and academic, specialising in classical pottery. From 1967 to 1980, she was Principal of Somerville College, Oxford.\n\nBarbara Denise Chapman was born on 22 October 1915 in Calcutta, British Raj. Her father was librarian of the Imperial Library of Calcutta (now the National Library of India). In 1920, she moved to London, England, with her mother and siblings; her father remained in India. She was educated at Haberdashers' Aske's School for Girls, an independent school in Acton, London.\n\nHaving won a scholarship to the University of Oxford, and under the influence of her uncle R. W. Chapman, she matriculated into Somerville College, Oxford in 1934 to study classics. During her degree, she specialised in ancient history and classical archaeology. One of her lecturers was H. T. Wade Gery, who encouraged her interest in ancient history rather than Latin or Greek. She graduated in 1938 with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree, having gained first class honours in both \"Mods\" and \"Greats\".\n\nCraig's early career suggested a future in academia. After her double first, she was awarded the Craven fellowship and the Goldsmith's senior studentship to fund further study. She then travelled to Italy to undertake research and further study at the British School in Rome. There, she studied the historical background to Greek lyric poetry and the ancient history of Sicily. She spent some time travelling alone in Sicily looking at ancient sites. Having moved away from the regular tourist sites, she found herself in the interior of the island where a large number of Italy's arms factories were based. Unable to convince a police officer that an attractive, young woman with binoculars was not spying in the factories, she was arrested. Luckily for her, the local police chief believed her account of being a tourist and scholar with a passion for birdwatching, and she was released.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II in 1939, she had to return to the United Kingdom. For a year, she worked as a temporary civil servant in the Ministry of Supply and the Ministry of Labour. She then had the opportunity to return to academia. Between 1940 and 1942, she was the assistant to the Professor of Greek at the University of Aberdeen. She then once became a civil servant: she was assistant principal of the Ministry of Home Security and the Ministry of Production. By the end of the war, she held the position of principal.\n\nIn 1945, her husband joined the British Council, an organisation that promotes British interests abroad through international education and other opportunities. This was the beginning of two decades spent in various foreign countries, with Barbara acting as hostess at any official occasion. However, she did have time to continue her own interests, in addition to supporting her husband. From 1951 to 1956, while the couple were based in Iraq, she was involved in Max Mallowan's excavation at Nimrud. In 1954, she was elected to the Katharine and Leonard Woolley Fellowship in Archaeology at Somerville College, Oxford, her alma mater. This gave her the funding to carry out research on the relations between Ancient Greece and the Ancient Near East. From 1956, she was involved in excavations at Mycenae under Sir Alan Wace, then under Lord William Taylour. As she was not a trained field archaeologist, her main contributions were the classification of pottery. She was greatly skilled at this and became an expert in Mycenaean pottery.\n\nIn 1965, the couple finally returned to the United Kingdom and set up a permanent home in London. She continued her involvement in archaeological excavations at Mycenae and in Laconia, Greece, during the summer months. In February 1966, she was elected Principal of Somerville College, Oxford. She took up the appointment in October 1967, succeeding Dame Janet Vaughan. Under her leadership, the college doubled in size and rose to the top of the Norrington Table, the annual ranking of colleges by degree classification. The college celebrated its centenary in 1979, and she used the opportunity to fund raise. She retired in 1980 and was appointed an honorary fellow of Somerville College.\n\nShe met her future husband, James Craig, when they were both at the British School at Rome in 1938; she was studying and he was the BSR's secretary and librarian. They married in 1942. A serious road accident in 1986 left her husband disabled and using a wheelchair. She cared for him until his death in 1989. They did not have any children.\n\nShe was a Christian and a practising Anglican.\n"}
{"id": "28119845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28119845", "title": "Benjamin Isaac", "text": "Benjamin Isaac\n\nBenjamin Henri Isaac (; born May 10, 1945) is the Fred and Helen Lessing Professor of Ancient History Emeritus at Tel Aviv University. He is a member of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities and of the American Philosophical Society \n\nIsaac was born in Geneva, Switzerland, where his parents settled in 1942 after fleeing the Netherlands during World War II. He grew up in Amsterdam and studied classics, ancient history and archaeology at Amsterdam University. In 1972, he moved to Israel and began teaching at Tel Aviv University. In 1980, he received his PhD (summa cum laude) for a thesis on the Greek settlements in Thrace until the Macedonian conquest. He has held visiting appointments at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, NJ (twice), All Souls College, Oxford, Dumbarton Oaks in Washington, D.C., Churchill College Cambridge, the National Humanities Center, North Carolina, Harvard University and the Collège de France.\n\nIsaac’s research covers the period from the 6th century BCE until the 7th century CE. It deals with Greek and Roman history and with Jewish history from the 2nd century BCE onward. He has been member of a team surveying the Roman roads in Judaea/Palaestina with Moshe Fischer and Israel Roll, and of a group preparing a corpus of ancient inscriptions in all relevant languages from the region, the Corpus Inscriptionum Iudaeae/Palaestinae.\n\nHis work on the imperial Roman army and imperialism traces various functions of the provincial army. It was commonly assumed that the main function of the Roman army was the defence of the frontier provinces against foreign enemies. Isaac argues that it had two different tasks, internal police functions and preparation for further expansion. Rome had an ideology of offence and expansion rather than preservation of the status quo and defence. In this connection Isaac has argued that the concept of an imperial frontier was irrelevant in Roman terms. The Empire was not a territorial concept, but one that expressed rule over peoples and cities. Another topic of this book is the question whether Rome had a “Grand strategy” as had been argued. Isaac has shown that this reflects a modern concept that could not apply to ancient reality.\n\nHis book on the ideological roots of racism argues that racism must be distinguished from other forms of prejudice and stereotypes. It is a rationalization and systematization of prejudice first encountered in the 5th century BCE in Greece as a result of the development of abstract thinking in contemporary philosophy and medical science. The concept of environmental determinism was developed at this time and has been accepted as valid until very recently. It assumes that geography, climate and other external realities impose definite and unchangeable qualities, physical and mental on entire groups of people. As such it preceded social Darwinism as an attempt to rationalize group prejudice. It played a role too in imperialist ideology because it was used to distinguish between superior and inferior peoples. These concepts were taken over by Roman authors and by those who, in later times, used them for similar or related purposes. Thus Isaac argues that the history and development of racism as an ideology has roots going back to Graeco-Roman antiquity.\n\nIsaac is the author of numerous articles.; He is also member of a team working on the publication of a corpus of all ancient inscriptions from Judaea / Palestine . Since 2015 he is the Editor-in-Chief of the Israelic classics journal \"Scripta Classica Israelica.\"\n\nIsaac is married and has three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1880967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1880967", "title": "Bruce H. Mann", "text": "Bruce H. Mann\n\nBruce Hartling Mann (born April 27, 1950) is the Carl F. Schipper, Jr. Professor of Law at Harvard Law School and a legal historian whose research focuses on the relationship among legal, social, and economic change in early America. He began at Harvard Law School in Fall 2006, after being the Leon Meltzer Professor of Law and Professor of History at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nMann graduated from Hingham High School in 1968.\n\nMann holds A.B. and A.M. degrees from Brown University (1972) and M.Phil., J.D., and Ph.D. degrees from Yale University (1975, 1975, and 1977, respectively). His dissertation is titled \"Rationality, Legal Change, and Community in Connecticut, 1690–1760.\" Mann has been licensed to practice law in Connecticut since 1975.\n\nAfter graduation, Mann taught at the University of Connecticut School of Law, Washington University in St. Louis, University of Houston, University of Texas, University of Michigan, and the history department at Princeton University. In 1987, Mann started to teach at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nMann is married to Elizabeth Warren, who is the senior United States Senator from Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248008", "title": "Civic Trust (England)", "text": "Civic Trust (England)\n\nThe Civic Trust of England was a charitable organisation founded in 1957. It ceased operations in 2009 and went into administration due to lack of funds. \n\nThe Civic Society Initiative was set up in 2009 with the support of The National Trust, CPRE and other organisations to ensure a future for the civic society movement and was formally launched in April 2010 as Civic Voice. \n\nCivic Trust's prime purpose was to improve the quality of new and historic buildings and public spaces, and to help improve the general quality of urban life. The trust operated from two main offices, in London and Liverpool and supported a national network of civic societies. These were local groups in which volunteer members helped to improve their surroundings. It ran the Civic Trust Regeneration Unit, which supported urban renewal through programmes addressing issues of concern such as \"the night time economy\". It ran campaigns to influence and change thinking on civic matters, and change government policy. It helped establish conservation areas and coordinate Heritage Open Days.\n\nThe Civic Trust Awards was established in 1959 to recognise outstanding architecture, urban design, landscape and public are which improve the quality of life for local communities. Whilst the Civic Trust as an umbrella organisation went into Administration in April 2009, the Civic Trust Awards have continued as an independent scheme operating on a not-for-profit basis as a Community Interest Company. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19713172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19713172", "title": "Company of the Wolf", "text": "Company of the Wolf\n\nThe Company of the Wolf is an Australian combat reenactment and living history group, re-enacting a mercenary company of the High Middle Ages to the Late Middle Ages, portraying a timeline of the great warring periods of the Middle Ages, from the later Crusading period of 1250, through the Hundred Years' War, to the end of the Wars of the Roses and Bosworth Field in 1485. Portraying a collection of the finest hired blades in Europe, the Company's ranks include members representative of the landless nobility, grizzled professional campaigners and humble foot soldiers, as well as a variety of camp followers drawn from across Western Europe.\n\nThe group's charter states that its intent is twofold;\n\n\"To be an accessible reenactment group, catering to anyone with an interest in mediaeval European history, a suitable place in the group will be found for anyone with any level of experience or interest, and;\nTo provide an accurate, interesting and fun educational experience to any institution or educational group interested in learning more about this interesting and largely misunderstood period of history. \"\n\nThe Company of the Wolf formed during 2005 to provide a vehicle for mediaeval historians and re-enactors living in and around the New England region of New South Wales. Traditionally the Company has retained\nclose links to other groups in Australia, frequently supplying members to reinforce the displays and shows of other groups. The Company is notable for its mascot Loupes De Guerre, or \"war wolves\". Historically, wolves, or other fierce breeds, would be unleashed before close quarters combat to break and demoralise enemy infantry formations. The Company of the Wolf use the considerably friendlier Siberian Husky to represent these dogs of war, equipping them with historically accurate armour. While dogs are frequent attendants in historical re-enactment, Company of the Wolf claims to be the only reenactment group in Australia that fields a dedicated armoured war dog sub unit.\n\nThe Company of the Wolf has a number of internal traditions and customs based on mediaeval practices.\n\nMembers of The Company of the Wolf who have attended three or more major events as members of the Company are awarded the rank of knight. This involves a traditional accolade or \"dubbing\" ceremony, where the newly elevated member is tapped on the shoulder with a sword and presented to his fellows, followed by a blow from a mailed fist. This represents the last blow that the new knight may ever take without responding to the challenge. The new knight is then presented with a small token of his or her new rank, often a badge. Once a knight, the member is referred to as \"Sir\" or \"Lady\", and has the right to wear spurs in the field to display his or her status to friends and foe alike. The knights of the Company of the Wolf are occasionally referred to collectively as \"Knights of the Order of the Wolf\". Unlike mediaeval orders of knighthood, both male and female members who are granted membership in the order are referred to as \"knights\", although their pre-nominal honorifics are gender specific.\n\nWhen the Company of the Wolf deploys as a group, the Wolf banner is displayed. This is a large black banner displaying the arms of the Company. When static, this banner remains in the campsite signifying the Company is present and deployed as a unit. On parade or for combat displays, the banner can be carried by two bearers to announce that members of the Company have taken the field. When a member of the Company of the Wolf achieves the rank of knight, the armorial achievement of the member may be added to the banner in miniature. Children of knights, even when not knights themselves, are permitted to display their arms alongside their parents' with appropriate marks of cadency. As accessibility and inclusiveness are key components of the group's mission, children of members have always been encouraged to participate. When an existing member, male or female, becomes the parent of a new child, the baby is bestowed honorary membership until the age of 14, when they may decide for themselves if they wish to continue participation with the Company.\n\nMembers of the Company of the Wolf will sometimes wear a \"wolf's tail\" hanging from their belts in both civilian and military attire as a form of group identification. As foxes are officially classed as vermin in Australia, members forgo the use of real wolves tails, and large fox tails are preferred. These \"wolves' tails\" are also sometimes hung from the poles of the Wolf Banner as a further embellishment of the Banner as the Company's rallying point.\n\nThe Company of the Wolf supplies displays, encampments and re-enactors to several high profile re-enactment events in Australia, including the Abbey Tournament at Caboolture in Queensland, and the Vikings! Exhibition at the Australian National Maritime Museum in Sydney. The Company also provides educational or \"interest\" displays for schools, universities or social groups when requested. Company members cover a range of mediaeval interests, and the group is structured in such a way as to allow the widest range of participation possible. This gives the Company of the Wolf a high degree of versatility, and allows the group to display and educate in civilian and military aspects of mediaeval life. The Company is lucky to count among its members and associates experts in a range of combat styles, mediaeval fashion and clothes making, armouring, heraldry and even mediaeval midwifery. Company of the Wolf is also notable for being one of the few mediaeval living history groups in Australia to field historically accurate black-powder weapons and crews. As well as public displays and shows, the Company of the Wolf also deploy privately to a number of immersive events for re-enactors along the East Coast of Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "12021113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12021113", "title": "Critical Path (book)", "text": "Critical Path (book)\n\nCritical Path is a book written by US author and inventor R. Buckminster Fuller with the assistance of Kiyoshi Kuromiya. First published in 1981, it is alongside \"Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth\" one of Fuller's best-known works. Vast in its scope, it describes Fuller's own vision of the development of human civilization, economic history, and his highly original economic ideology based, amongst other things, on his detailed description of why scarcity of resources need no longer be a decisive factor in global politics.\n\nThe following is a list of the main claims and opinions presented in the book, reported without discussion or criticism.\n\nThe first part of the book explains the history and present state of the global economy.\n\nHuman life began in the atolls of the South Pacific, where the average sea temperature is closest to that of the human body (p. 6). Rather than evolving from simpler organisms, humanity was of extraterrestrial origin and other organisms evolved from us (p. 7). From this base, humanity developed boat-building in Southeast Asia and colonised the rest of the planet (p. 15). There is evidence that the Bronze Age began in Southeast Asia (p. 17). Fuller's Dymaxion World Map is used to show the distribution of humanity over the Earth's surface. Over half the population lives in the regions watered by the Himalayan glaciers (p. 20).\n\nOur knowledge of the spherical shape of the Earth is central to our understanding of ecology (p. 34). This knowledge probably originated in prehistoric times, was certainly known to the Ancient Greeks, but was then suppressed for centuries by organised religion because it was incompatible with the official story of a Heaven above and a Hell below (p. 43). There has been an evolution of religious ideas from those of the Egyptian pyramid-builders, whose ambition was to deliver a single individual, the pharaoh, into the afterlife, to the modern belief that everybody has a right to enjoy life on Earth (p. 51).\n\nHuman history has been shaped by the continual growth and success of greed. City-states were the first institutions to make organised use of extortion (p. 68). This was then followed by the growth of international trade, which appropriates the wealth of the planet for its own ends. Corruption in the form of \"lawyer-capitalism\" has led the U.S.A. to become effectively bankrupt (p. 114). Government subsidies given to corporations amount to socialism (p. 101).\nFuller's diary, the \"Chronofile\", is intended to show how much a single human being with little money can do to influence world affairs (p. 128). The mechanical principle of precession is used as a metaphor for the ability of a person to influence the world by applying pressure in an unconventional direction (p. 144). Fuller's religious beliefs are explained (p. 151).\n\nFuller observed that when he did things for the benefit of others, it had a positive effect on his life, but when he did things merely for his personal benefit, the outcome was negative. This eventually led him to the proposition that if he dedicated his life to the betterment of humanity, he would achieve the greatest positive outcome. So he decided to live his entire life as an experiment to prove or disprove this proposition. He writes (p. 145):\n\nThe Geoscope is a large-scale, animated globe of the Earth intended to help people visualise the spatial and temporal patterns of human activity, either in real time or replayed at different speeds. If the human mind is presented with all of this information at once, it should be able to use its visual pattern-detecting abilities to solve complex problems such as weather-forecasting, resource conflicts, and wars (p. 183). Data for the Geoscope can come from the world maps produced by the USA, using radio triangulation, during and after World War II (p. 184). Geodesic domes will be built to enclose entire cities (p. 179). Afghanistan was the heartland of the Cold War world, as it gave the USSR the potential of a route through Iran to the Indian Ocean (p. 194).\n\nThe World Game is a simulation of global economic activity. Computers can be used to calculate the optimal answer to any economic, technological or social question. The computers will tell us that the true cost to the environment of using fossil fuels is prohibitive, and renewable energy should be used instead. The true energy cost of a gallon of gasoline is more than one million (1980) US dollars. The amount of scrap metals in circulation means that no more mining is necessary (p. 205). A global electrical supply grid will enable more efficient use of energy, and make intermittent renewable energy more practical (p. 202).\n\nThis part of the book explains Fuller's plan to set humanity on the path to a sustainable existence with no need to fight over resources.\n\nEducation is key to improving humanity's living conditions (p. 232). The USSR tried to destabilise the US education system by inciting its students to riot (p. 236). The Apollo Project had a critical path of two million tasks, one million of which required new technological solutions (p. 248). Fuller has applied a similar project-planning approach to the saving of humanity, and has created a list of critical-path items (p. 248).\n\nUnlike the Apollo Project, the critical-path items in the project to save humanity can all be accomplished with existing technologies (p. 253). A global video education system must be developed (p. 265).\nCorn is wasted in generating unnecessarily fatty but more profitable beef (p. 272). \nIn Los Angeles, private-incinerator and later car-pollution laws were passed to shift the blame for smog from industry to citizens (p. 279). \n\nIn 1929 the USSR used its gold wealth relative to the USA's poverty to pay United States industry to set up industries in USSR, in USSR's first three 5-year plans (p. 289).\n\nThe first task in humanity's critical path is to build a global electricity grid (p. 309). The second task is to provide movable dwellings for all - city-sized and family-sized domes (p. 310). Fuller has the following designs ready for production: the Fly's Eye Dome (p. 311); Old Man River's City project, East St. Louis (p. 315); Raleigh cotton mill (p. 325); Growth House - sustainable greenhouse (p. 329); O-Volving shelves (p. 331); tetrahedral floating city (p. 333); Cloud Nines - spherical floating cities (p. 336); 8,000-foot Tokyo Tower (p. 338); containerised passenger air travel (p. 340).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1738591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1738591", "title": "Defacement (flag)", "text": "Defacement (flag)\n\nDefacement, in heraldry and vexillology, is the addition of a symbol or charge to another flag. For example, the New Zealand flag is the British Blue Ensign defaced with a Southern Cross in the fly. In the context of vexillology, the word \"deface\" carries no negative connotations, in contrast to general usage. It simply indicates differentiation of the flag from that of another owner by addition of elements. For example, many state flags are formed by defacing the national flag with a coat of arms.\nWhere countries pass through changes of regime with contrasting ideological orientations (monarchist/republican, fascist/democratic, communist/capitalist, secular/religious etc.)—all of which, despite their differences, claim allegiance to a common national heritage expressed in a venerated national flag—it can happen that a new regime defaces that flag with its own specific emblem while keeping the basic flag design unchanged. Such changing ideological emblems appeared over time, among others, on the flags of Italy, Hungary, Romania, Germany (West and East, see illustration) Ethiopia and Iran. As a result, during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and the Romanian Revolution of 1989, insurgents tore out of the national flag the emblem of the regime which they opposed and waved the flag itself with which they identified. \n\nAn already defaced flag can be further defaced. For example, the Australian flag is a defaced Blue Ensign. The Australian Border Force Flag is further defaced with the words \"Australian border force\" in block letters.\n\nIn the United States, it is against the Flag Code to deface the national flag with advertising or with any other sigil, image or insignia. Such flags are nevertheless commercially available, depicting the seals of various branches of the U.S. military, Native American related objects such as tomahawks or war bonnets, and the like.\n\nIt is common for association football supporters travelling abroad for a match to bring a national flag defaced with the name of their hometown or a similar local identifier.\n"}
{"id": "11525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11525", "title": "Florence", "text": "Florence\n\nFlorence ( ; ) is the capital city of the Italian region of Tuscany. It is the most populous city in Tuscany, with 383,084 inhabitants in 2013, and over 1,520,000 in its metropolitan area.\n\nFlorence was a centre of medieval European trade and finance and one of the wealthiest cities of that era. It is considered the birthplace of the Renaissance, and has been called \"the Athens of the Middle Ages\". A turbulent political history includes periods of rule by the powerful Medici family and numerous religious and republican revolutions. From 1865 to 1871 the city was the capital of the recently established Kingdom of Italy. The Florentine dialect forms the base of Standard Italian and it became the language of culture throughout Italy due to the prestige of the masterpieces by Dante Alighieri, Petrarch, Giovanni Boccaccio, Niccolò Machiavelli and Francesco Guicciardini.\n\nThe city attracts millions of tourists each year, and the Historic Centre of Florence was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1982. The city is noted for its culture, Renaissance art and architecture and monuments. The city also contains numerous museums and art galleries, such as the Uffizi Gallery and the Palazzo Pitti, and still exerts an influence in the fields of art, culture and politics. Due to Florence's artistic and architectural heritage, it has been ranked by \"Forbes\" as one of the most beautiful cities in the world.\n\nFlorence is an important city in Italian fashion, being ranked in the top 15 fashion capitals of the world; furthermore, it is a major national economic centre, as well as a tourist and industrial hub. In 2008, the city had the 17th highest average income in Italy.\n\nFlorence originated as a Roman city, and later, after a long period as a flourishing trading and banking medieval commune, it was the birthplace of the Italian Renaissance. According to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", it was politically, economically, and culturally one of the most important cities in Europe and the world from the 14th to 16th centuries.\n\nThe language spoken in the city during the 14th century was, and still is, accepted as the Italian language. Almost all the writers and poets in Italian literature of the \"golden age\" are in some way connected with Florence, leading ultimately to the adoption of the Florentine dialect, above all the local dialects, as a literary language of choice.\n\nStarting from the late Middle Ages, Florentine money—in the form of the gold florin—financed the development of industry all over Europe, from Britain to Bruges, to Lyon and Hungary. Florentine bankers financed the English kings during the Hundred Years War. They similarly financed the papacy, including the construction of their provisional capital of Avignon and, after their return to Rome, the reconstruction and Renaissance embellishment of Rome.\n\nFlorence was home to the Medici, one of European history's most important noble families. Lorenzo de' Medici was considered a political and cultural mastermind of Italy in the late 15th century. Two members of the family were popes in the early 16th century: Leo X and Clement VII. Catherine de Medici married king Henry II of France and, after his death in 1559, reigned as regent in France. Marie de' Medici married Henry IV of France and gave birth to the future king Louis XIII. The Medici reigned as Grand Dukes of Tuscany, starting with Cosimo I de' Medici in 1569 and ending with the death of Gian Gastone de' Medici in 1737.\n\nThe Etruscans initially formed in 200 BC the small settlement of Fiesole (Faesulae in Latin), which was destroyed by Lucius Cornelius Sulla in 80 BC in reprisal for supporting the populares faction in Rome. The present city of Florence was established by Julius Caesar in 59 BC as a settlement for his veteran soldiers and was named originally \"Fluentia\", owing to the fact that it was built between two rivers, which was later changed to \"Florentia\" (\"flowering\"). It was built in the style of an army camp with the main streets, the \"cardo\" and the \"decumanus\", intersecting at the present \"Piazza della Repubblica\". Situated along the \"Via Cassia\", the main route between Rome and the north, and within the fertile valley of the Arno, the settlement quickly became an important commercial centre.\n\nIn centuries to come, the city experienced turbulent periods of Ostrogothic rule, during which the city was often troubled by warfare between the Ostrogoths and the Byzantines, which may have caused the population to fall to as few as 1,000 people. Peace returned under Lombard rule in the 6th century. Florence was conquered by Charlemagne in 774 and became part of the Duchy of Tuscany, with Lucca as capital. The population began to grow again and commerce prospered. In 854, Florence and Fiesole were united in one county.\n\nMargrave Hugo chose Florence as his residency instead of Lucca at about 1000 AD. The Golden Age of Florentine art began around this time. In 1013, construction began on the Basilica di San Miniato al Monte. The exterior of the church was reworked in Romanesque style between 1059 and 1128. In 1100, Florence was a \"Commune\", meaning a city state. The city's primary resource was the Arno river, providing power and access for the industry (mainly textile industry), and access to the Mediterranean sea for international trade. Another great source of strength was its industrious merchant community. The Florentine merchant banking skills became recognised in Europe after they brought decisive financial innovation (e.g. bill of exchange, double-entry bookkeeping system) to medieval fairs. This period also saw the eclipse of Florence's formerly powerful rival Pisa (defeated by Genoa in 1284 and subjugated by Florence in 1406), and the exercise of power by the mercantile elite following an anti-aristocratic movement, led by Giano della Bella, that resulted in a set of laws called the Ordinances of Justice (1293).\n\nOf a population estimated at 94,000 before the Black Death of 1348, about 25,000 are said to have been supported by the city's wool industry: in 1345 Florence was the scene of an attempted strike by wool combers (\"ciompi\"), who in 1378 rose up in a brief revolt against oligarchic rule in the Revolt of the Ciompi. After their suppression, Florence came under the sway (1382–1434) of the Albizzi family, who became bitter rivals of the Medici.\n\nIn the 15th century, Florence was among the largest cities in Europe, considered rich and economically successful. Life was not idyllic for all residents though, among whom there were great disparities in wealth. Cosimo de' Medici was the first Medici family member to essentially control the city from behind the scenes. Although the city was technically a democracy of sorts, his power came from a vast patronage network along with his alliance to the new immigrants, the \"gente nuova\" (new people). The fact that the Medici were bankers to the pope also contributed to their ascendancy. Cosimo was succeeded by his son Piero, who was, soon after, succeeded by Cosimo's grandson, Lorenzo in 1469. Lorenzo was a great patron of the arts, commissioning works by Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci and Botticelli. Lorenzo was an accomplished poet and musician and brought composers and singers to Florence, including Alexander Agricola, Johannes Ghiselin, and Heinrich Isaac. By contemporary Florentines (and since), he was known as \"Lorenzo the Magnificent\" (Lorenzo il Magnifico).\n\nFollowing Lorenzo de' Medici's death in 1492, he was succeeded by his son Piero II. When the French king Charles VIII invaded northern Italy, Piero II chose to resist his army. But when he realised the size of the French army at the gates of Pisa, he had to accept the humiliating conditions of the French king. These made the Florentines rebel and they expelled Piero II. With his exile in 1494, the first period of Medici rule ended with the restoration of a republican government.\n\nDuring this period, the Dominican friar Girolamo Savonarola had become prior of the San Marco monastery in 1490. He was famed for his penitential sermons, lambasting what he viewed as widespread immorality and attachment to material riches. He blamed the exile of the Medici as the work of God, punishing them for their decadence. He seized the opportunity to carry through political reforms leading to a more democratic rule. But when Savonarola publicly accused Pope Alexander VI of corruption, he was banned from speaking in public. When he broke this ban, he was excommunicated. The Florentines, tired of his extreme teachings, turned against him and arrested him. He was convicted as a heretic and burned at the stake on the Piazza della Signoria on 23 May 1498.\n\nA second individual of unusually acute insight was Niccolò Machiavelli, whose prescriptions for Florence's regeneration under strong leadership have often been seen as a legitimisation of political expediency and even malpractice. In other words, Machiavelli was a political thinker, perhaps most renowned for his political handbook, titled The Prince, which is about ruling and the exercise of power. Commissioned by the Medici, Machiavelli also wrote the Florentine Histories, the history of the city. Florentines drove out the Medici for a second time and re-established a republic on 16 May 1527. Restored twice with the support of both Emperor Charles V and Pope Clement VII (Giulio de Medici), the Medici in 1532 became hereditary dukes of Florence, and in 1569 Grand Dukes of Tuscany, ruling for two centuries. In all Tuscany, only the Republic of Lucca (later a Duchy) and the Principality of Piombino were independent from Florence.\n\nThe extinction of the Medici dynasty and the accession in 1737 of Francis Stephen, duke of Lorraine and husband of Maria Theresa of Austria, led to Tuscany's temporary inclusion in the territories of the Austrian crown. It became a secundogeniture of the Habsburg-Lorraine dynasty, who were deposed for the House of Bourbon-Parma in 1801. From 1801 to 1807 Florence was the capital of the Napoleonic client state Kingdom of Etruria. Bourbon-Parma were deposed in December 1807 when Tuscany was annexed by France. Florence was the prefecture of the French département of Arno from 1808 to the fall of Napoleon in 1814. The Habsburg-Lorraine dynasty was restored on the throne of Tuscany at the Congress of Vienna but finally deposed in 1859. Tuscany became a region of the Kingdom of Italy in 1861.\n\nFlorence replaced Turin as Italy's capital in 1865 and, in an effort to modernise the city, the old market in the Piazza del Mercato Vecchio and many medieval houses were pulled down and replaced by a more formal street plan with newer houses. The Piazza (first renamed Piazza Vittorio Emanuele II, then Piazza della Repubblica, the present name) was significantly widened and a large triumphal arch was constructed at the west end. This development was unpopular and was prevented from continuing by the efforts of several British and American people living in the city. A museum recording the destruction stands nearby today.\n\nThe country's second capital city was superseded by Rome six years later, after the withdrawal of the French troops made its addition to the kingdom possible.\n\nAfter doubling during the 19th century, Florence's population was to triple in the 20th, resulting from growth in tourism, trade, financial services and industry.\n\nDuring World War II the city experienced a year-long German occupation (1943–1944) and was declared an open city in late July 1944 as troops of the British 8th Army closed in. In early August, the retreating Germans decided to demolish all the bridges along the Arno linking the district of Oltrarno to the rest of the city, making it difficult for troops of the 8th Army to cross. However, at the last moment Charles Steinhauslin, at the time consulate of 26 countries in Florence, convinced the German general in Italy that the Ponte Vecchio was not to be destroyed due to its historical value. Instead, an equally historic area of streets directly to the south of the bridge, including part of the Corridoio Vasariano, was destroyed using mines. Since then the bridges have been restored to their original forms using as many of the remaining materials as possible, but the buildings surrounding the Ponte Vecchio have been rebuilt in a style combining the old with modern design. Shortly before leaving Florence, as they knew that they would soon have to retreat, the Germans executed many freedom fighters and political opponents publicly, in streets and squares including the Piazza Santo Spirito.\n\nFlorence was liberated by New Zealand, South African and British troops on 4 August 1944. The Allied soldiers who died driving the Germans from Tuscany are buried in cemeteries outside the city (Americans about south of the city, British and Commonwealth soldiers a few kilometres east of the centre on the right bank of the Arno).\n\nAt the end of World War II in May 1945, the US Army's Information and Educational Branch was ordered to establish an overseas university campus for demobilised American service men and women in Florence, Italy. The first American University for service personnel was established in June 1945 at the School of Aeronautics in Florence, Italy. Some 7,500 soldier-students were to pass through the University during its four one-month sessions (see G. I. American Universities).\n\nIn November 1966, the Arno flooded parts of the centre, damaging many art treasures. Around the city there are tiny placards on the walls noting where the flood waters reached at their highest point.\n\nOn 25 May 2016 the BBC reported that a sinkhole, thought to have been caused by a bursting of a water pipe, opened up a hole on the Arno river bank in Florence.\n\nFlorence lies in a basin formed by the hills of Careggi, Fiesole, Settignano, Arcetri, Poggio Imperiale and Bellosguardo (Florence). The Arno river, three other minor rivers (Mugnone, Ema and Greve) and some streams flow through it.\n\nFlorence has a humid subtropical climate (\"Cfa\"), tending to Mediterranean (\"Csa\"). It has hot summers with moderate or light rainfall and cool, damp winters. As Florence lacks a prevailing wind, summer temperatures are higher than along the coast. Rainfall in summer is convectional, while relief rainfall dominates in the winter. Snow flurries happen almost every year, but often result in no accumulation. The highest officially recorded temperature was on 26 July 1983 and the lowest was on 12 January 1985.\n\nThe legislative body of the municipality is the City Council (\"Consiglio Comunale\"), which is composed of 36 councillors elected every five years with a proportional system, contextually to the mayoral elections. The executive body is the City Committee (\"Giunta Comunale\"), composed by 7 assessors, that is nominated and presieded over by a directly elected Mayor. The current mayor of Florence is Dario Nardella.\n\nThe municipality of Florence is subdivided into five administrative Boroughs (\"Quartieri\"). Each Borough is governed by a Council (\"Consiglio\") and a President, elected contextually to the city Mayor. The urban organisation is governed by the Italian Constitution (art. 114). The Boroughs have the power to advise the Mayor with nonbinding opinions on a large spectrum of topics (environment, construction, public health, local markets) and exercise the functions delegated to them by the City Council; in addition they are supplied with an autonomous founding in order to finance local activities. The Boroughs are:\n\nAll of the five boroughs are governed by the Democratic Party.\n\nThe former Italian Prime Minister (2014-2016), Matteo Renzi, served as mayor from 2009 to 2014.\n\nFlorence is known as the \"cradle of the Renaissance\" (\"la culla del Rinascimento\") for its monuments, churches, and buildings. The best-known site of Florence is the domed cathedral of the city, Santa Maria del Fiore, known as \"The Duomo\", whose dome was built by Filippo Brunelleschi. The nearby Campanile (partly designed by Giotto) and the Baptistery buildings are also highlights. The dome, 600 years after its completion, is still the largest dome built in brick and mortar in the world. In 1982, the historic centre of Florence (Italian: \"centro storico di Firenze\") was declared a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO. The centre of the city is contained in medieval walls that were built in the 14th century to defend the city. At the heart of the city, in Piazza della Signoria, is Bartolomeo Ammannati's Fountain of Neptune (1563–1565), which is a masterpiece of marble sculpture at the terminus of a still functioning Roman aqueduct.\n\nThe layout and structure of Florence in many ways harkens back to the Roman era, where it was designed as a garrison settlement. Nevertheless, the majority of the city was built during the Renaissance. Despite the strong presence of Renaissance architecture within the city, traces of medieval, Baroque, Neoclassical and modern architecture can be found. The Palazzo Vecchio as well as the Duomo, or the city's Cathedral, are the two buildings which dominate Florence's skyline.\n\nThe river Arno, which cuts through the old part of the city, is as much a character in Florentine history as many of the people who lived there. Historically, the locals have had a love-hate relationship with the Arno – which alternated between nourishing the city with commerce, and destroying it by flood.\nOne of the bridges in particular stands out — the Ponte Vecchio (\"Old Bridge\"), whose most striking feature is the multitude of shops built upon its edges, held up by stilts. The bridge also carries Vasari's elevated corridor linking the Uffizi to the Medici residence (Palazzo Pitti). Although the original bridge was constructed by the Etruscans, the current bridge was rebuilt in the 14th century. It is the only bridge in the city to have survived World War II intact. It is the first example in the western world of a bridge built using segmental arches, that is, arches less than a semicircle, to reduce both span-to-rise ratio and the numbers of pillars to allow lesser encumbrance in the riverbed (being in this much more successful than the Roman Alconétar Bridge).\nThe church of San Lorenzo contains the Medici Chapel, the mausoleum of the Medici family—the most powerful family in Florence from the 15th to the 18th century. Nearby is the Uffizi Gallery, one of the finest art museums in the world – founded on a large bequest from the last member of the Medici family.\n\nThe Uffizi is located at the corner of Piazza della Signoria, a site important for being the centre of Florence's civil life and government for centuries. The Palazzo della Signoria facing it is still home of the municipal government. Many significant episodes in the history of art and political changes were staged here, such as:\n\nThe Loggia dei Lanzi in Piazza della Signoria is the location of a number of statues by other sculptors such as Donatello, Giambologna, Ammannati and Cellini, although some have been replaced with copies to preserve the originals.\n\nFlorence contains several palaces and buildings from various eras. The Palazzo Vecchio is the town hall of Florence and also an art museum. This large Romanesque crenellated fortress-palace overlooks the Piazza della Signoria with its copy of Michelangelo's David statue as well as the gallery of statues in the adjacent Loggia dei Lanzi. Originally called the \"Palazzo della Signoria\", after the Signoria of Florence, the ruling body of the Republic of Florence, it was also given several other names: \"Palazzo del Popolo\", \"Palazzo dei Priori\", and \"Palazzo Ducale\", in accordance with the varying use of the palace during its long history. The building acquired its current name when the Medici duke's residence was moved across the Arno to the Palazzo Pitti. It is linked to the Uffizi and the Palazzo Pitti through the Corridoio Vasariano.\n\nPalazzo Medici Riccardi, designed by Michelozzo di Bartolomeo for Cosimo il Vecchio, of the Medici family, is another major edifice, and was built between 1445 and 1460. It was well known for its stone masonry that includes rustication and ashlar. Today it is the head office of the Metropolitan City of Florence and hosts museums and the Riccardiana Library. The Palazzo Strozzi, an example of civil architecture with its rusticated stone, was inspired by the Palazzo Medici, but with more harmonious proportions. Today the palace is used for international expositions like the annual antique show (founded as the Biennale dell'Antiquariato in 1959), fashion shows and other cultural and artistic events. Here also is the seat of the Istituto Nazionale del Rinascimento and the noted Gabinetto Vieusseux, with the library and reading room.\nThere are several other notable places, including the Palazzo Rucellai, designed by Leon Battista Alberti between 1446 and 1451 and executed, at least in part, by Bernardo Rossellino; the Palazzo Davanzati, which houses the museum of the Old Florentine House; the Palazzo delle Assicurazioni Generali, designed in the Neo-Renaissance style in 1871; the Palazzo Spini Feroni, in Piazza Santa Trinita, a historic 13th-century private palace, owned since the 1920s by shoe-designer Salvatore Ferragamo; as well as various others, including the Palazzo Borghese, the Palazzo di Bianca Cappello, the Palazzo Antinori, and the Royal building of Santa Maria Novella.\n\nFlorence contains numerous museums and art galleries where some of the world's most important works of art are held. The city is one of the best preserved Renaissance centres of art and architecture in the world and has a high concentration of art, architecture and culture. In the ranking list of the 15 most visited Italian art museums, ⅔ are represented by Florentine museums. The Uffizi is one of these, having a very large collection of international and Florentine art. The gallery is articulated in many halls, catalogued by schools and chronological order. Engendered by the Medici family's artistic collections through the centuries, it houses works of art by various painters and artists. The Vasari Corridor is another gallery, built connecting the Palazzo Vecchio with the Pitti Palace passing by the Uffizi and over the Ponte Vecchio. The Galleria dell'Accademia houses a Michelangelo collection, including the David. It has a collection of Russian icons and works by various artists and painters. Other museums and galleries include the Bargello, which concentrates on sculpture works by artists including Donatello, Giambologna and Michelangelo; the Palazzo Pitti, containing part of the Medici family's former private collection. In addition to the Medici collection, the palace's galleries contain many Renaissance works, including several by Raphael and Titian, large collections of costumes, ceremonial carriages, silver, porcelain and a gallery of modern art dating from the 18th century. Adjoining the palace are the Boboli Gardens, elaborately landscaped and with numerous sculptures.\n\nThere are several different churches and religious buildings in Florence. The cathedral is Santa Maria del Fiore. The San Giovanni Baptistery located in front of the cathedral, is decorated by numerous artists, notably by Lorenzo Ghiberti with the \"Gates of Paradise\". Other churches in Florence include the Basilica of Santa Maria Novella, located in Santa Maria Novella square (near the Firenze Santa Maria Novella railway station) which contains works by Masaccio, Paolo Uccello, Filippino Lippi and Domenico Ghirlandaio; the Basilica of Santa Croce, the principal Franciscan church in the city, which is situated on the Piazza di Santa Croce, about south east of the Duomo, and is the burial place of some of the most illustrious Italians, such as Michelangelo, Galileo, Machiavelli, Foscolo, Rossini, thus it is known also as the Temple of the Italian Glories (Tempio dell'Itale Glorie); the Basilica of San Lorenzo, which is one of the largest churches in the city, situated at the centre of Florence's main market district, and the burial place of all the principal members of the Medici family from Cosimo il Vecchio to Cosimo III; Santo Spirito, in the Oltrarno quarter, facing the square with the same name; Orsanmichele, whose building was constructed on the site of the kitchen garden of the monastery of San Michele, now demolished; Santissima Annunziata, a Roman Catholic basilica and the mother church of the Servite order; Ognissanti, which was founded by the lay order of the Umiliati, and is among the first examples of Baroque architecture built in the city; the Santa Maria del Carmine, in the Oltrarno district of Florence, which is the location of the Brancacci Chapel, housing outstanding Renaissance frescoes by Masaccio and Masolino da Panicale, later finished by Filippino Lippi; the Medici Chapel with statues by Michelangelo, in the San Lorenzo; as well as several others, including Santa Trinita, San Marco, Santa Felicita, Badia Fiorentina, San Gaetano, San Miniato al Monte, Florence Charterhouse, and Santa Maria del Carmine. The city additionally contains the Orthodox Russian church of Nativity, and the Great Synagogue of Florence, built in the 19th century.\n\nFlorence contains various theatres and cinemas. The Odeon Cinema of the Palazzo dello Strozzino is one of the oldest cinemas in the city. Established from 1920 to 1922 in a wing of the Palazzo dello Strozzino, it used to be called the \"Cinema Teatro Savoia\" (Savoy Cinema-Theatre), yet was later called \"Odeon\". The Teatro della Pergola, located in the centre of the city on the eponymous street, is an opera house built in the 17th century. Another theatre is the Teatro Comunale (or \"Teatro del Maggio Musicale Fiorentino\"), originally built as the open-air amphitheatre, the \"Politeama Fiorentino Vittorio Emanuele\", which was inaugurated on 17 May 1862 with a production of Donizetti's \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" and which seated 6,000 people. There are several other theatres, such as the Saloncino Castinelli, the Teatro Puccini, the Teatro Verdi, the Teatro Goldoni and the Teatro Niccolini.\n\nAside from such monuments, Florence contains numerous major squares (\"piazze\") and streets. The Piazza della Repubblica is a square in the city centre, location of the cultural cafés and bourgeois palaces. Among the square's cafés (like Caffè Gilli, Paszkowski or the Hard Rock Cafè), the Giubbe Rosse café has long been a meeting place for artists and writers, notably those of Futurism. The Piazza Santa Croce is another; dominated by the Basilica of Santa Croce, it is a rectangular square in the centre of the city where the Calcio Fiorentino is played every year. Furthermore, there is the Piazza Santa Trinita, a square near the Arno that mark the end of the Via de' Tornabuoni street.\n\nOther squares include the Piazza San Marco, the Piazza Santa Maria Novella, the Piazza Beccaria and the Piazza della Libertà. The centre additionally contains several streets. Such include the Via Camillo Cavour, one of the main roads of the northern area of the historic centre; the Via Ghibellina, one of central Florence's longest streets; the Via dei Calzaiuoli, one of the most central streets of the historic centre which links \"Piazza del Duomo\" to Piazza della Signoria, winding parallel to via Roma and \"Piazza della Repubblica\"; the Via de' Tornabuoni, a luxurious street in the city centre that goes from Antinori square to ponte Santa Trinita, across Piazza Santa Trinita, characterised by the presence of fashion boutiques; the Viali di Circonvallazione, 6-lane boulevards surrounding the northern part of the historic centre; as well as others, such as Via Roma, Via degli Speziali, Via de' Cerretani, and the Viale dei Colli.\n\nFlorence also contains various parks and gardens. Such include the Boboli Gardens, the Parco delle Cascine, the Giardino Bardini and the Giardino dei Semplici, amongst others.\n\nIn 1200 the city was home to 50,000 people. By 1300 the population of the city proper was 120,000, with an additional 300,000 living in the Contado. Between 1500 and 1650 the population was around 70,000.\n\n, the population of the city proper is 370,702, while Eurostat estimates that 696,767 people live in the urban area of Florence. The Metropolitan Area of Florence, Prato and Pistoia, constituted in 2000 over an area of roughly , is home to 1.5 million people. Within Florence proper, 46.8% of the population was male in 2007 and 53.2% were female. Minors (children aged 18 and less) totalled 14.10 percent of the population compared to pensioners, who numbered 25.95 percent. This compares with the Italian average of 18.06 percent (minors) and 19.94 percent (pensioners). The average age of Florence resident is 49 compared to the Italian average of 42. In the five years between 2002 and 2007, the population of Florence grew by 3.22 percent, while Italy as a whole grew by 3.56 percent. The birth rate of Florence is 7.66 births per 1,000 inhabitants compared to the Italian average of 9.45 births.\n\n, 87.46% of the population was Italian. An estimated 6,000 Chinese live in the city. The largest immigrant group came from other European countries (mostly Romanians and Albanians): 3.52%, East Asia (mostly Chinese and Filipino): 2.17%, the Americas: 1.41%, and North Africa (mostly Moroccan): 0.9%.\n\nTourism is, by far, the most important of all industries and most of the Florentine economy relies on the money generated by international arrivals and students studying in the city. The value tourism to the city totalled some €62.5 billion in 2015 and the number of visitors had increased by 5.5% from the previous year.\n\nIn 2013, Florence was listed as the second best world city by \"Condé Nast Traveler\".\n\nManufacturing and commerce, however, still remain highly important. Florence is also Italy's 17th richest city in terms of average workers' earnings, with the figure being €23,265 (the overall city's income is €6,531,204,473), coming after Mantua, yet surpassing Bolzano.\n\nFlorence is a major production and commercial centre in Italy, where the Florentine industrial complexes in the suburbs produce all sorts of goods, from furniture, rubber goods, chemicals, and food. However, traditional and local products, such as antiques, handicrafts, glassware, leatherwork, art reproductions, jewellery, souvenirs, elaborate metal and iron-work, shoes, accessories and high fashion clothes also dominate a fair sector of Florence's economy. The city's income relies partially on services and commercial and cultural interests, such as annual fairs, theatrical and lyrical productions, art exhibitions, festivals and fashion shows, such as the Calcio Fiorentino. Heavy industry and machinery also take their part in providing an income. In Nuovo Pignone, numerous factories are still present, and small-to medium industrial businesses are dominant. The Florence-Prato-Pistoia industrial districts and areas were known as the 'Third Italy' in the 1990s, due to the exports of high-quality goods and automobile (especially the Vespa) and the prosperity and productivity of the Florentine entrepreneurs. Some of these industries even rivalled the traditional industrial districts in Emilia-Romagna and Veneto due to high profits and productivity.\n\nIn the fourth quarter of 2015, manufacturing increased by 2.4% and exports increased by 7.2%. Leading sectors included mechanical engineering, fashion, pharmaceutics, food and wine. During 2015, permanent employment contracts increased by 48.8 percent, boosted by nationwide tax break.\n\nTourism is the most significant industry in central Florence. From April to October, tourists outnumber local population. Tickets to the Uffizi and Accademia museums are regularly sold out and large groups regularly fill the basilicas of Santa Croce and Santa Maria Novella, both of which charge for entry. Tickets for The Uffizi and Accademia can be purchased online prior to visiting. In 2010, readers of \"Travel + Leisure\" magazine ranked the city as their third favourite tourist destination. In 2015, Condé Nast Travel readers voted Florence as the best city in Europe.\n\nStudies by Euromonitor International have concluded that cultural and history-oriented tourism is generating significantly increased spending throughout Europe.\n\nFlorence is believed to have the greatest concentration of art (in proportion to its size) in the world. Thus, cultural tourism is particularly strong, with world-renowned museums such as the Uffizi selling over 1.93 million tickets in 2014. The city's convention centre facilities were restructured during the 1990s and host exhibitions, conferences, meetings, social forums, concerts and other events all year.\n\nIn 2016, Florence had 20,588 hotel rooms in 570 facilities. International visitors use 75% of the rooms; some 18% of those were from the U.S. In 2014, the city had 8.5 million overnight stays. A Euromonitor report indicates that in 2015 the city ranked as the world's 36th most visited in the world, with over 4.95 million arrivals for the year.\n\nTourism brings revenue to Florence, but it creates certain problems. The Ponte Vecchio, The San Lorenzo Market and Santa Maria Novella are plagued by pickpockets. The province of Florence receives roughly 13 million visitors per year and in peak seasons, that can lead to over crowding at popular locations. Mayor Dario Nardella is particularly concerned about visitors who arrive on buses, stay only a few hours, spend little money but contribute significantly to overcrowding. \"No museum visit, just a photo from the square, the bus back and then on to Venice... We don’t want tourists like that,\" he said.\n\nSome tourists are less than respectful of the city's cultural heritage, according to Nardella. In June 2017, he instituted a programme of spraying church steps with water to prevent tourists from using such areas as picnic spots. While he values the benefits of tourism, there has been \"an increase among those who sit down on church steps, eat their food and leave rubbish strewn on them,\" he explained. To boost the sale of traditional foods, the mayor had introduced legislation (enacted in 2016) that requires restaurants to use typical Tuscan products and rejected McDonald's application to open a location in the Piazza del Duomo.\n\nFood and wine have long been an important staple of the economy. The Chianti region is just south of the city, and its Sangiovese grapes figure prominently not only in its Chianti Classico wines but also in many of the more recently developed Supertuscan blends. Within to the west is the Carmignano area, also home to flavourful sangiovese-based reds. The celebrated Chianti Rufina district, geographically and historically separated from the main Chianti region, is also few kilometres east of Florence. More recently, the Bolgheri region (about southwest of Florence) has become celebrated for its \"Super Tuscan\" reds such as Sassicaia and Ornellaia.\n\nFlorence was the birthplace of High Renaissance art, which lasted from 1450-1527. While Medieval art focused on basic story telling of the Bible, Renaissance art focused on naturalism and human emotion. Medieval art was abstract, formulaic, and largely produced by monks whereas Renaissance art was rational, mathematical, individualistic, consisted of linear perspective and shading (Chiaroscuro) and produced by specialists (Leonardo da Vinci, Donatello, Michelangelo, and Raphael). Religion was important, but with this new age came the humanization of religious figures in art, such as Expulsion from the Garden of Eden, Ecce Homo (Bosch, 1470s), and Madonna Della Seggiola; People of this age began to understand themselves as human beings, which reflected in art. The Renaissance marked the rebirth of classical values in art and society as people studied the ancient masters of the Greco-Roman world; Art became focused on realism as opposed to idealism.\n\nCimabue and Giotto, the fathers of Italian painting, lived in Florence as well as Arnolfo and Andrea Pisano, renewers of architecture and sculpture; Brunelleschi, Donatello and Masaccio, forefathers of the Renaissance, Ghiberti and the Della Robbias, Filippo Lippi and Angelico; Botticelli, Paolo Uccello and the universal genius of Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo.\n\nTheir works, together with those of many other generations of artists, are gathered in the several museums of the town: the Uffizi Gallery, the Palatina gallery with the paintings of the \"Golden Ages\", the Bargello with the sculptures of the Renaissance, the museum of San Marco with Fra Angelico's works, the Academy, the chapels of the Medicis Buonarroti's house with the sculptures of Michelangelo, the following museums: Bardini, Horne, Stibbert, Romano, Corsini, The Gallery of Modern Art, the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo, the museum of Silverware and the museum of Precious Stones.\nSeveral monuments are located in Florence: the Florence Baptistery with its mosaics; the Cathedral with its sculptures, the medieval churches with bands of frescoes; public as well as private palaces: Palazzo Vecchio, Palazzo Pitti, Palazzo Medici Riccardi, Palazzo Davanzati; monasteries, cloisters, refectories; the \"Certosa\". In the archaeological museum includes documents of Etruscan civilisation. In fact the city is so rich in art that some first time visitors experience the Stendhal syndrome as they encounter its art for the first time.\n\nFlorentine architects such as Filippo Brunelleschi (1377–1466) and Leon Battista Alberti (1404–1472) were among the fathers of both Renaissance and Neoclassical architecture.\n\nThe cathedral, topped by Brunelleschi's dome, dominates the Florentine skyline. The Florentines decided to start building it – late in the 13th century, without a design for the dome. The project proposed by Brunelleschi in the 14th century was the largest ever built at the time, and the first major dome built in Europe since the two great domes of Roman times – the Pantheon in Rome, and Hagia Sophia in Constantinople. The dome of Santa Maria del Fiore remains the largest brick construction of its kind in the world. In front of it is the medieval Baptistery. The two buildings incorporate in their decoration the transition from the Middle Ages to the Renaissance. In recent years, most of the important works of art from the two buildings – and from the nearby Giotto's Campanile, have been removed and replaced by copies. The originals are now housed in the Museum dell'Opera del Duomo, just to the east of the Cathedral.\n\nFlorence has large numbers of art-filled churches, such as San Miniato al Monte, San Lorenzo, Santa Maria Novella, Santa Trinita, Santa Maria del Carmine, Santa Croce, Santo Spirito, the Annunziata, Ognissanti and numerous others.\n\nArtists associated with Florence range from Arnolfo di Cambio and Cimabue to Giotto, Nanni di Banco, and Paolo Uccello; through Lorenzo Ghiberti, and Donatello and Massaccio and the della Robbia family; through Fra Angelico and Botticelli and Piero della Francesca, and on to Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci. Others include Benvenuto Cellini, Andrea del Sarto, Benozzo Gozzoli, Domenico Ghirlandaio, Filippo Lippi, Bernardo Buontalenti, Orcagna, Pollaiuolo, Filippino Lippi, Verrocchio, Bronzino, Desiderio da Settignano, Michelozzo, the Rossellis, the Sangallos, and Pontormo. Artists from other regions who worked in Florence include Raphael, Andrea Pisano, Giambologna, Il Sodoma and Peter Paul Rubens.\nPicture galleries in Florence include the Uffizi and the Pitti Palace. Two superb collections of sculpture are in the Bargello and the Museum of the Works of the Duomo. They are filled with the creations of Donatello, Verrochio, Desiderio da Settignano, Michelangelo and others. The Galleria dell'Accademia has Michelangelo's David – perhaps the best-known work of art anywhere, plus the unfinished statues of the slaves Michelangelo created for the tomb of Pope Julius II. Other sights include the medieval city hall, the Palazzo della Signoria (also known as the Palazzo Vecchio), the Archeological Museum, the Museum of the History of Science, the Garden of Archimedes, the Palazzo Davanzatti, the Stibbert Museum, St. Marks, the Medici Chapels, the Museum of the Works of Santa Croce, the Museum of the Cloister of Santa Maria Novella, the Zoological Museum (\"La Specola\"), the Bardini, and the Museo Horne. There is also a collection of works by the modern sculptor, Marino Marini, in a museum named after him. The Strozzi Palace is the site of special exhibits.\n\nFlorentine (\"fiorentino\"), spoken by inhabitants of Florence and its environs, is a Tuscan dialect and the immediate parent language to modern Italian.\n\nIts vocabulary and pronunciation are largely identical to standard Italian, though the hard \"c\" between two vowels (as in \"ducato\") is pronounced as a fricative , similar to an English \"h\". This gives Florentines a highly recognisable accent (the so-called gorgia toscana). Other traits include using a form of the subjunctive mood last commonly used in medieval times, a frequent usage in everyday speech of the modern subjunctive, and a shortened pronunciation of the definite article, instead of \"il\".\n\nDante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio pioneered the use of the vernacular instead of the Latin used for most literary works at the time.\n\nDespite Latin being the main language of the courts and the Church in the Middle Ages, writers such as Dante Alighieri and many others used their own language, the Florentine vernacular descended from Latin, in composing their greatest works. The oldest literary pieces written in Florentine go as far back as the 13th century. Florence's literature fully blossomed in the 14th century, when not only Dante with his \"Divine Comedy\" (1306–1321) and Petrarch, but also poets such as Guido Cavalcanti and Lapo Gianni composed their most important works. Dante's masterpiece is the \"Divine Comedy\", which mainly deals with the poet himself taking an allegoric and moral tour of Hell, Purgatory and finally Heaven, during which he meets numerous mythological or real characters of his age or before. He is first guided by the Roman poet Virgil, whose non-Christian beliefs damned him to Hell. Later on he is joined by Beatrice, who guides him through Heaven.\n\nIn the 14th century, Petrarch and Giovanni Boccaccio led the literary scene in Florence after Dante's death in 1321. Petrarch was an all-rounder writer, author and poet, but was particularly known for his \"Canzoniere\", or the Book of Songs, where he conveyed his unremitting love for Laura. His style of writing has since become known as \"Petrarchism\". Boccaccio was better known for his \"Decameron\", a slightly grim story of Florence during the 1350s bubonic plague, known as the Black Death, when some people fled the ravaged city to an isolated country mansion, and spent their time there recounting stories and novellas taken from the medieval and contemporary tradition. All of this is written in a series of 100 distinct novellas.\n\nIn the 16th century, during the Renaissance, Florence was the home town of political writer and philosopher Niccolò Machiavelli, whose ideas on how rulers should govern the land, detailed in \"The Prince\", spread across European courts and enjoyed enduring popularity for centuries. These principles became known as \"Machiavellianism\".\n\nFlorence became a musical centre during the Middle Ages and music and the performing arts remain an important part of its culture. The growth of Northern Italian Cities in the 1500s likely contributed to its increased prominence. During the Renaissance, there were four kinds of musical patronage in the city with respect to both sacred and secular music: state, corporate, church, and private.[73] It was here that the Florentine Camerata convened in the mid-16th century and experimented with setting tales of Greek mythology to music and staging the result—in other words, the first operas, setting the wheels in motion not just for the further development of the operatic form, but for later developments of separate \"classical\" forms such as the symphony and concerto. After the year 1600, Italian trends prevailed across Europe, by 1750 it was the primary musical language. The genre of the Madrigal, born in Italy, gained popularity in Britain and elsewhere. Several Italian cities were \"larger on the musical map than their real-size for power suggested. Florence, was once such city which experienced a fantastic period in the early seventeenth Century of musico-theatrical innovation, including the beginning and flourishing of opera.\n\nOpera was invented in Florence in the late 16th century when Jacobo Peri's \"Dafne\" an opera in the style of monody, was premiered.[74] Opera spread from Florence throughout Italy and eventually Europe. Vocal Music in the choir setting was also taking new identity at this time. At the beginning of the 17th century, two practices for writing music were devised, one the first practice or \"Stile Antico/Prima Prattica\" the other the \"Stile Moderno/Secondo Prattica\". The Stile Antico was more prevalent in Northern Europe and Stile Moderno was practiced more by the Italian Composers of the time.\n\nComposers and musicians who have lived in Florence include Piero Strozzi (1550 – after 1608), Giulio Caccini (1551–1618) and Mike Francis (1961–2009). Giulio Caccini's book \"Le Nuove Musiche\" was significant in performance practice technique instruction at the time. The book specified a new term, in use by the 1630s, called monody which indicated the combination of voice and basso continuo and connoted a practice of stating text in a free, lyrical, yet speech-like manner. This would occur while an instrument, usually a keyboard type such as harpsichord, played and held chords while the singer sang/spoke the monodic line.\n\nFlorence has been a setting for numerous works of fiction and movies, including the novels and associated films, such as \"Light in the Piazza\", \"Calmi Cuori Appassionati\", \"Hannibal\", \"A Room with a View\", \"Tea with Mussolini\", \"Virgin Territory\" and \"Inferno\". The city is home to renowned Italian actors and actresses, such as Roberto Benigni, Leonardo Pieraccioni and Vittoria Puccini.\n\nFlorentine food grows out of a tradition of peasant eating rather than rarefied high cooking. The majority of dishes are based on meat. The whole animal was traditionally eaten; tripe (\"trippa\") and stomach (\"lampredotto\") were once regularly on the menu and still are sold at the food carts stationed throughout the city. Antipasti include \"crostini toscani\", sliced bread rounds topped with a chicken liver-based pâté, and sliced meats (mainly prosciutto and salame, often served with melon when in season). The typically saltless Tuscan bread, obtained with natural levain frequently features in Florentine courses, especially in its soups, \"ribollita\" and \"pappa al pomodoro\", or in the salad of bread and fresh vegetables called \"panzanella\" that is served in summer. The \"bistecca alla fiorentina\" is a large (the customary size should weigh around ) – the \"date\" steak – T-bone steak of Chianina beef cooked over hot charcoal and served very rare with its more recently derived version, the \"tagliata\", sliced rare beef served on a bed of arugula, often with slices of Parmesan cheese on top. Most of these courses are generally served with local olive oil, also a prime product enjoying a worldwide reputation. Among the desserts, \"schiacciata alla fiorentina\", a white flatbread cake, is one of the most popular; it is a very soft cake, prepared with extremely simple ingredients as typical of Florentine cuisine, and is especially eaten at Carnival.\n\nResearch institutes and university departments are located within the Florence area and within two campuses at\nPolo di Novoli and Polo Scientifico di Sesto Fiorentino as well as in the Research Area of Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche.\n\nFlorence has been an important scientific centre for centuries, notably during the Renaissance with scientists such as Leonardo da Vinci.\n\nFlorentines were one of the driving forces behind the Age of Discovery. Florentine bankers financed Henry the Navigator and the Portuguese explorers who pioneered the route around Africa to India and the Far East. It was a map drawn by the Florentine Paolo dal Pozzo Toscanelli, a student of Brunelleschi, that Christopher Columbus used to sell his \"enterprise\" to the Spanish monarchs, and which he used on his first voyage. Mercator's \"Projection\" is a refined version of Toscanelli's – taking into account the Americas, of which the Florentine was, obviously, ignorant.\n\nGalileo and other scientists pioneered the study of optics, ballistics, astronomy, anatomy, and so on. Pico della Mirandola, Leonardo Bruni, Machiavelli, and many others laid the groundwork for our understanding of science.\n\nBy the year 1300 Florence had become a centre of textile production in Europe. Many of the rich families in Renaissance Florence were major purchasers of locally produced fine clothing, and the specialists of fashion in the economy and culture of Florence during that period is often underestimated. Florence is regarded by some as the birthplace and earliest centre of the modern (post World War Two) fashion industry in Italy. The Florentine \"soirées\" of the early 1950s organised by Giovanni Battista Giorgini were events where several Italian designers participated in group shows and first garnered international attention. Florence has served as the home of the Italian fashion company Salvatore Ferragamo since 1928. Gucci, Roberto Cavalli, and Emilio Pucci are also headquartered in Florence. Other major players in the fashion industry such as Prada and Chanel have large offices and stores in Florence or its outskirts. Florence's main upscale shopping street is Via de' Tornabuoni, where major luxury fashion houses and jewellery labels, such as Armani and Bulgari, have their elegant boutiques. Via del Parione and Via Roma are other streets that are also well known for their high-end fashion stores.\n\nThe \"Scoppio del Carro\" (\"Explosion of the Cart\") is a celebration of the First Crusade. During the day of Easter, a cart, which the Florentines call the \"Brindellone\" and which is led by four white oxen, is taken to the Piazza del Duomo between the Baptistery of St. John the Baptist (\"Battistero di San Giovanni\") and the Florence Cathedral (\"Santa Maria del Fiore\"). The cart is connected by a rope to the interior of the church. Near the cart there is a model of a dove, which, according to legend, is a symbol of good luck for the city: at the end of the Easter mass, the dove emerges from the nave of the Duomo and ignites the fireworks on the cart.\n\n\"Calcio Storico Fiorentino\" (\"Historic Florentine Football\"), sometimes called \"Calcio in costume\", is a traditional sport, regarded as a forerunner of soccer, though the actual gameplay most closely resembles rugby. The event originates from the Middle Ages, when the most important Florentine nobles amused themselves playing while wearing bright costumes. The most important match was played on 17 February 1530, during the siege of Florence. That day Papal troops besieged the city while the Florentines, with contempt of the enemies, decided to play the game notwithstanding the situation. The game is played in the Piazza di Santa Croce. A temporary arena is constructed, with bleachers and a sand-covered playing field. A series of matches are held between four teams representing each \"quartiere \"(quarter) of Florence during late June and early July. There are four teams: Azzurri (light blue), Bianchi (white), Rossi (red) and Verdi (green). The Azzurri are from the quarter of Santa Croce, Bianchi from the quarter of Santo Spirito, Verdi are from San Giovanni and Rossi from Santa Maria Novella.\n\nIn association football Florence is represented by ACF Fiorentina, which plays in Serie A, the top league of Italian league system.\nACF Fiorentina has won two Italian Championships since their formation in 1926. They play their games at the Stadio Artemio Franchi, which currently holds 47,282.\nThe female squad of ACF Fiorentina have won the women's association football Italian Championship of the 2016-17 season.\n\nThe city is home of Coverciano, the main training ground of the Italian national team, and the technical department of the Italian Football Federation.\n\nFlorence was selected to host the 2013 UCI World Road Cycling Championships.\n\nSince 2017 Florence is also represented in Eccellenza, the top tier of rugby union league system in Italy, by I Medicei, which is a club established in 2015 by the merging of the senior squads of I Cavalieri (of Prato) and Firenze Rugby 1931.\nI Medicei won the Serie A Championship in 2016-17 and were promoted to Eccellenza for the 2017-18 season.\n\nRari Nantes Florentia is a successful water polo club based in Florence; both its male and female squads have won several Italian championships and the female squad has also European titles in their palmarès.\n\nThe centre of Florence is closed to through-traffic, although buses, taxis and residents with appropriate permits are allowed in. This area is commonly referred to as the ZTL (\"Zona Traffico Limitato\"), which is divided into several subsections. Residents of one section, therefore, will only be able to drive in their district and perhaps some surrounding ones. Cars without permits are allowed to enter after 7.30 pm, or before 7.30 am. The rules shift during the tourist-filled summers, putting more restrictions on where one can get in and out.\n\nThe principal public transit network in the city is run by the ATAF and Li-nea bus company. Individual tickets, or a pass called Carta Agile with multiple rides, should be purchased in advance and are available at local tobacconists, bars and newspaper stalls and must be validated once on board. These tickets may be used on ATAF and Li-nea buses, Tramvia and second-class local trains only within city railway stations. Train tickets must be validated before boarding.The main bus station is next to Santa Maria Novella railway station. Trenitalia runs trains between the railway stations within the city, and to other destinations around Italy and Europe. The central railway station, Santa Maria Novella, is about northwest of the Piazza del Duomo. There are two other important stations: Campo di Marte and Rifredi. Most bundled routes are Firenze—Pisa, Firenze—Viareggio and Firenze-Arezzo (along the main line to Rome). Other local railways connect Florence with Borgo San Lorenzo in the Mugello area (Faentina railway) and Siena.\n\nLong distance buses are run by the SITA, Copit, CAP companies. The transit companies also accommodate travellers from the Amerigo Vespucci Airport, which is west of the city centre, and which has scheduled services run by major European carriers.\n\nIn an effort to reduce air pollution and car traffic in the city, a multi-line tram network called \"Tramvia\" is under construction. The first line began operation on 14 February 2010 and connects Florence's primary intercity railway station (Santa Maria Novella) with the southwestern suburb of Scandicci. This line is long and has 14 stops. The construction of a second line began on 5 November 2011, construction was stopped due to contractors' difficulties and restarted in 2014, completion is now scheduled for 2018. This second line will connect Florence's airport with the city centre. A third line (from Santa Maria Novella to the Careggi area, where are the most important hospitals of Florence) is also under construction\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Firenze, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 59 min. 13% of public transit riders, ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 14 min, while 22% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 4.1 km, while 3% travel for over 12 km in a single direction.\n\nFirenze Santa Maria Novella railway station is the main national and international railway station in Florence and is used by 59 million people every year. The building, designed by Giovanni Michelucci, was built in the \"Italian Rationalism\" style and it is one of the major rationalist buildings in Italy. It is located in \"Piazza della Stazione\", near the Fortezza da Basso (a masterpiece of the military Renaissance architecture) and the Viali di Circonvallazione, and in front of the Basilica of Santa Maria Novella's apse from which it takes its name. As well as numerous high speed trains to major Italian cities Florence is served by international overnight sleeper services to Munich and Vienna operated by Austrian railways ÖBB.\n\nA new high-speed rail station is under construction and is contracted to be operational by 2015. It is planned to be connected to Vespucci airport, Santa Maria Novella railway station, and to the city centre by the second line of Tramvia. The architectural firms Foster + Partners and Lancietti Passaleva Giordo and Associates designed this new rail station.\n\nThe Florence Airport, Peretola, is one of two main airports in the Tuscany region though it is not widely used by popular airlines. The other airport in the Tuscany region is the Galileo Galilei International Airport in Pisa.\n\nFlorence is twinned with:\n\n\nFlorence appears in the video games \"Assassin's Creed II\" and \"Assassin's Creed Brotherhood\" and was often called Firenze.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6396966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6396966", "title": "Foundation deposit", "text": "Foundation deposit\n\nFoundation deposits are the archaeological remains of the ritual burial of materials under the foundations of buildings.\n\nIn the case of Ancient Egypt, foundation deposits took the form of ritual mudbrick lined pits or holes dug at specific points under temples or tombs, which were filled with ceremonial objects, usually amulets, scarabs, food, or ritual miniature tools, and were supposed to prevent the building from falling into ruin.\n\n"}
{"id": "53308590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53308590", "title": "Guy McElroy", "text": "Guy McElroy\n\nGuy Clinton McElroy (1946-May 31, 1990) born in Fairmont, West Virginia was an African American Art Historian. He curated the major exhibit \"Facing History: The Black Image in American Art 1710-1940\" which dealt with the image of African-Americans in American art.\n\nGuy C. McElroy was the son of Geraldine (née Woods) and George E. McElroy, Sr. Raised in his native Fairmont, West Virginia McElroy earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from local Fairmont State College in 1970. After he earned a master's degree in art history from the University of Cincinnati in 1972, he acquired a second Master's in Mass Communications from Boston's Emerson College in 1975.\n\nHe held the position of Rockefeller Fellow in Museum Studies at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco from 1974 to 1975. He followed that position with several assistant curator roles in West and East Coast public galleries and museums. Beginning in 1978 McElroy spent 10 years at Washington, DC's Bethune Museum-Archive, first as curator and then as assistant director. It was as adjunct curator of the Corcoran Gallery where he completed his work on \"Facing History.\"\n\nBecoming a quadriplegic after a 1987 New Mexico automobile accident, McElroy began using a wheelchair.\n\nHe died at 44, only five months after initial publication of the catalog for \"Facing History,\" from a pulmonary embolism at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, DC having nearly completed a Ph.D. in art history from the University of Maryland.\n\n\"Facing History: The Black Image in American Art, 1710-1940,\" was the first public display by a major museum to showcase depictions of African-Americans in American art. The show examined ways in which American artists \"reinforced a number of largely restrictive stereotypes of black identity.\" The art exhibition originally shown from January 13 through March 25, 1990 at the Corcoran Gallery travelled to the Brooklyn Museum from April 20 through June 25, 1990.\n\nBoth works by approximately 80 African American and European American artists were featured in the exhibition of drawing, painting and sculpture. In McElroy's view these works depict the attitude of society toward African-Americans through the works themselves and the response they received in the marketplace. The works make overt political statements, as well as, address contemporary issues. Stereotypes, slavery and violence dominate the images. But as McElroy states in the show's catalog:\n\n"}
{"id": "7299233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7299233", "title": "Han Mahmud", "text": "Han Mahmud\n\nHan Mahmud (Khan Mahmud) was a 19th-century Kurdish Lord.\n\nHe was born in Mukus (now Van, Turkey), and after his father Abdi Beg's death, he became Lord (Mir) of the Mukus Kurdish Emirate.\n\nIn 1847, he fought in a Kurdish revolt against the Ottomans, which was organized with Bedirhan Beg, the Lord of Cizır-Botan. The revolt was quashed, Bedirhan Beg was exiled to Crete, and Han Mahmud was exiled to Rousse (now a Bulgarian city). Han Mahmud died in Rousse in 1866.\n"}
{"id": "37394763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37394763", "title": "Jane Robinson (historian)", "text": "Jane Robinson (historian)\n\nJane Robinson (born 1959) is a British social historian specialising in the study of women pioneers in various fields.\n\nShe was born in Edinburgh, educated at Easingwold School and Somerville College, Oxford, worked in the antiquarian book trade for 10 years and now lives near Oxford writing and lecturing.\n\nIn 1994, she published an anthology of women travellers' writings, \"Unsuitable for Ladies\". Her 2002 work \"Pandora's Daughters\" (\"Women Out of Bounds\" in the United States) discussed \"Enterprising women\" including early Venetian writer Christine de Pizan, criminal Moll Cutpurse, and Christian Cavanagh who joined the army in male disguise. In 2005 she wrote \"Mary Seacole\", a biography of the nurse who was in 2004 voted \"the top black Briton of all time\", and her 2009 book \"Bluestockings\" describes women's entry into English universities from the 1860s to 1939, and was the BBC Radio 4 \"Book of the Week\".\n\nIn 2011 Robinson published \"A Force to be Reckoned With\", a history of the Women's Institute; she says in the introduction that \"the WI members I've come across - past as well as present - have had more humour, courage, spirit, eccentricity and common sense than any other individuals I've ever written about. And that's saying something.\"\n\nIn 2015 she published \"In the Family Way: Illegitimacy Between the Great War and the Swinging Sixties\", a book on attitudes to illegitimacy, described in \"The Telegraph\" as \"bone-chilling\".\n\nHer 2018 book \"Hearts And Minds: The Untold Story of the Great Pilgrimage and How Women Won the Vote\" tells the story of the Suffragists, who campaigned for women's suffrage in Britain separately from the Suffragettes and marched on London in 1913.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42882181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42882181", "title": "Janusz Cisek", "text": "Janusz Cisek\n\nJanusz Waldemar Cisek (born 1955 in Stalowa Wola) is a Polish historian, academic lecturer, former executive director of the Józef Piłsudski Institute of America in New York City and of the Polish Army Museum in Warsaw, and former Polish under-secretary of state at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nAn alumnus of a high school of general education in Stalowa Wola (\"Liceum Ogólnokształcące im. Komisji Edukacji Narodowej w Stalowej Woli\"), he finished the history major at the Jagiellonian University in 1980. In 1993, he obtained a doctorate in humanities at the University of Wrocław based on his dissertation entitled \"Białoruskie oddziały gen. Stanisława Bułak-Bałachowicza w polityce Józefa Piłsudskiego w okresie wojny polsko-bolszewickiej (marzec-grudzień 1920 r.)\" (\"Belorussian troops of Gen. Stanisław Bułak-Bułachowicz in the policies of Józef Piłsudski during the Polish-Bolshevik War (March–December 1920)\". In 2003, he obtained the degree of \"doktor habilitowany\" at the same university. In 2013, he received the title of Professor of Humanities (\"profesor nauk humanistycznych\").\n\nOriginally, he conducted research in the archives of Kraków. In 1986, he moved to New York City and worked at the Józef Piłsudski Institute of America, first as vice-director (1989–1992) and then as director (1992–2000) of the organization. Following his return to Poland, he fulfilled the functions of deputy of the department director of the Ministry of Culture (2001-2002) and of vice-president of Stalowa Wola (2002-2003). In 2006, he became director of the Polish Army Museum in Warsaw. As a scholar, he is associated with the Jagiellonian University, where he became a distinguished professor (\"profesor nadzwyczajny\") at the European Institute. He also became the main commandant of the Riflemen's Association (2008–2012), a council member of the foundation in charge of assisting veterans of the Polish special forces JW GROM as well as a member of the Polish Society of Arts and Sciences Abroad.\n\nIn the 2011 Polish parliamentary elections, Cisek unsuccessfully ran for Senator from the list of the Polish Peasants' Party. On June 11, 2012, he was named the under-secretary of state at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Cisek resigned on April 24, 2013. Radosław Sikorski stated that Cisek's resignation was forced by a serious illness. Cisek himself sent a message to the Polish Press Agency explaining his absences at the Sejm and Senate as caused by his medical treatments.\n\nIn 2009, Cisek received the Officer's Cross of the Order of Polonia Restituta.\n\n"}
{"id": "51565456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51565456", "title": "Jean Hatzfeld (hellenist)", "text": "Jean Hatzfeld (hellenist)\n\nJean Hatzfeld (29 November 1880 – 30 May 1947, aged 66) was a French archaeologist and hellenist. He was a member of the French School at Athens, a professor at the Sorbonne (1928–1930) and at the École pratique des hautes études (1937).\n\n"}
{"id": "43585978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43585978", "title": "Kadir Mısıroğlu", "text": "Kadir Mısıroğlu\n\nKadir Mısıroğlu (born 24 January 1933) is a Turkish author, historical revisionist, poet, lawyer, and a former journalist. He is a staunch anti-secularist and known for his opposing opinions against the founder and first President of the Turkish Republic, Kemal Atatürk.\n\nMısıroğlu was born in Akçaabat in the Trabzon Province and enrolled at the Istanbul University Faculty of Law in 1954. He became interested in history during his university education and began research as an amateur historian. He founded the publishing house Sebil in 1964 and the eponymous magazine in 1976. He has published more than 50 books in his career. His 1974 book decrying the historical legacy of the 1923 Lausanne Treaty brought him widespread recognition among conservatives.\n\nIn 1977, Mısıroğlu became a Trabzon candidate of the Islamist National Salvation Party for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey but failed to be elected. He became a member of the Central Committee of the party in 1978 but after the 1980 Turkish coup d'état, he sought asylum in Germany and settled in Frankfurt.\n\nMısıroğlu returned to Turkey in 1991. He founded the foundation \"Osmanlılar İlim ve İrfan Vakfı\", an Ottoman monarchist NGO in 1994 and he has been leading it since then.\n\nMısıroğlu is known for controversial, and sometimes fantastic, public statements. In July 2016 he claimed in a television interview that Shakespeare was in reality not English, but a secret Muslim.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4983788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4983788", "title": "Kazimierz Bartoszewicz", "text": "Kazimierz Bartoszewicz\n\nKazimierz Bartoszewicz (1852–1930) was a Polish writer and historian. He spent at least part of his life in Kraków.\n\nIn his last will he donated his collection to Museum of History and Art in Łódź, which is now named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58024456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58024456", "title": "Keith Breckenridge", "text": "Keith Breckenridge\n\nKeith Breckenridge is the South African professor of history at the University of the Witwatersrand. He is a specialist in the cultural and economic history of South Africa, particularly the gold mining industry, and development of information systems such as birth, marriage and death registration and identity verification systems.\n\nBreckenridge is a graduate of the University of the Witwatersrand and Johns Hopkins University and completed his PhD at Northwestern University in 1995.\n\nBreckenridge is professor of history at the University of the Witwatersrand. He is a specialist in the cultural and economic history of South Africa, particularly the gold mining industry, and development of information systems such as birth, marriage and death registration and identity verification systems.\n\nWith Simon Szreter he edited \"Registration and Recognition: Documenting the Person in World History\" which was published by Oxford University Press and The British Academy in 2012 as part of the proceedings of the British Academy based on a workshop held in Cambridge in 2010.\n\nIn 2014, he published \"Biometric State: The Global Politics of Identification and Surveillance in South Africa, 1850 to the Present\", (Cambridge University Press, 2014) which was the inaugural winner of the Humanities Book Award of the Academy of Science of South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "7503579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7503579", "title": "King and Queen's Young Company", "text": "King and Queen's Young Company\n\nBeeston's Boys was the popular and colloquial name of The King and Queen's Young Company, a troupe of boy actors of the Caroline period, active mainly in the years 1637–1642.\n\nThe troupe was formed in early 1637, under a royal warrant, by the theatre manager and impresario Christopher Beeston, during a time of disorder and reorganisation in the theatre profession; the London playhouses had been closed since the summer of 1636 because of bubonic plague. The creation of a company of boy actors was a return to a practice of the early 17th century, the era of companies like the Children of Paul's and the Children of the Chapel. Those companies, while controversial in their time, had been effective at developing and educating young talent, to the eventual benefit of the adult companies and the theatrical profession as a whole. Beeston's formation of the Young Company was an attempt to recover that training function – as well as to provide effective drama while paying relatively less in actors' salaries.\n\nThe King and Queen's Young Company was onstage in early 1637, and was a hit; they and their reputation quickly entered public consciousness under their popular nickname. Yet the theatrical profession, in a time of plague and looming revolution, remained challenging; when Christopher Beeston died in 1638, his control of acting troupes and theatres (the Cockpit and the Red Bull) passed to his son and successor William Beeston, who was notably less successful than his father. (This period of crisis would likely have been difficult to navigate, even for a very resourceful individual.) William Beeston inherited the Phoenix theatre from his father and everything that went with it, which included the young company Beeston’s Boys. While Beeston had none of the experience that his father had, he still took on the mantle of managing the company since he had “a one-twelfth interest in the King and Queen’s young company” \n\nChristopher Beeston was a very talented man that \"managed five Phoenix companies: Queen Anne's (1617–19), Prince Charles’s (1619–22), Lady Elizabeth’s (1622–5), Henrietta Maria’s (1625–37) and the King and Queen’s Young company\". Beeston already had an immense amount of experience in the theatre profession from managing these companies and he also had the copyright to many of the plays performed at the Phoenix, which was very unordinary at the time. Beeston’s Boys performed plays including \"Cupid's Revenge\", \"The Knight of the Burning Pestle\" and \"The Court Beggar\". The last play, \"The Court Beggar\", got Beeston's Boys in a severe amount of trouble that resulted in William Davenant taking over the theatre for an interim time. By possessing such a large repertoire, the Beeston's Boys were able to quickly get up and running and compete with such acting companies like the Queen's Men. William Beeston was then sworn as governor of the company to succeed his father on 5 April 1639 (Bentley 1:330)\n\nBeeston's boys were older than the pre-pubescent actors of the previous generation; they tended to be adolescents and young men in their 20s, and included some older Shareholders in the company. The company was one of the first hybrid acting companies of young adults and already established actors. Some veterans from Queen Henrietta's Men, the previous occupants of Beeston's Cockpit Theatre, joined the new group: Ezekiel Fenn, a boy player experienced in female roles; Theophilus Bird; Robert Axell; John Page; and George Stutfield, who apparently moved from performance to management. These older men were also believed to act as the instructors of the younger members, and the title of \"teacher\" was not vested entirely in one man. It was instead given to anyone answerable to the authority and who were also shareholders in the company. In 1638, Nicholas Burt came from the King's Men, and stayed with Beeston's Boys until the theatres closed in 1642.\n\nA roster of the troupe from 1639 also lists Robert Cox, Edward Davenport, Edward Gibbes, John Lacy, Samuel Mannery, Michael Mohun, Robert Shatterell, William Trigg, and John Wright. Both Mannery and Wright had played female roles in \"Holland's Leaguer\" in 1631, with Prince Charles's Men. Edward Gibbes had been with the King's Revels Men, and was an accomplished fencer. Upon Charles' Death in 1639, his son William took charge. Williams first move, as manager, was to have Richard Brome, a poet and dramatist for the Salisbury Court, secured for seven years as the chief poet for the Cockpit.\n\nDuring the long hiatus of theatre due to the bubonic plague, Beeston was planning a new company to inhabit the Phoenix, without\nthe permission of the Lord Chamberlain. The opening performance of Beeston’s Boys did get Beeston into trouble; however he\nreceived a ratification of the company which was post-dated to after the first performance. This leads scholars to believe\nthat the Lord Chamberlain was stepping in to help the company because of Beeston's favour with the higher ups.\n\nThe relationship between Lord Chamberlain Pembroke and Christopher Beeston was so close that it greatly advantaged the company. “Now running a company of youths...enjoying the Lord Chamberlain’s direct support, and retaining all the old Queen’s Men’s rich repertoire, Beeston’s position was strong indeed” (Butler 113). Beeston had many orders go in his favor, including one which happened a month after his incident of performing a play illegally. The order was that “no plays must be published without the permission of Beeston as manager of the King and Queen’s young company, or his successors in management”.\n\nIn 1640 Beeston's Boys acted a play that offended King Charles I personally, by referring to his failure to suppress the Scottish Presbyterians during his recent expedition to the north. (Though the identity of the play is not known with certainty, Richard Brome's \"The Court Beggar\" is perhaps the best candidate. The offending passages did not survive into the printed text.)\n\nWilliam Beeston was sent to the Marshalsea prison on 4 May 1640; Sir Henry Herbert, the Master of the Revels, gave control of the theatres and their associated actors' companies to Sir William Davenant, playwright and manager. During this time Beeston’s boys were not nearly as successful due to William Davenant's being busy with other endeavours at the time. Most of his time was possessed by something called “the Army Plot”. The Lord Chamberlain did not predict this when he gave the governor position to Davenant, so when Davenant fled the country the Lord Chamberlain was forced to bring William Beeston back. Due to this turn of events, Beeston was released on bail from the prison and reclaimed his position as governor of the Phoenix in 1641.\n\nAlso in 1640, Beeston's Boys were combined with adult actors to form the King and Queen's Company.\n\nThanks to the decades-long career of their founder, the Beeston's Boys had a rich repertory of stage plays to draw upon, including works by the best playwrights of the Caroline age. In their short heyday, the boys acted:\n\nThis repertoire of plays was interesting considering most of the Beeston's Boys plays were placed in the charge of the Cockpit Theatre, and many of these plays also showed up in the repertoire of the Old Queen Henrietta’s Company. Suggesting that many of the members of the Beeston's Boys were formerly members of that company, or associated with them in some way. Christopher Beeston had an order passed that placed the repertoire of plays in the charge of the Cockpit Theatre. This strengthened the Beeston Boys ties to the Cockpit Theatre. Making it impossible for them to continue to produce plays if ever asked to leave the cockpit, and ensured them a theatre to perform at.\n\nBeeston’s Boys were disbanded along with every other theatre in London when the Coup d’etat led by Oliver Cromwell happened. September 2, 1642 was the day that every theatre company was outlawed from performing. There is not much else that is mentioned about Beeston’s Boys after this time, but it is suspected that the company continued acting in the 1650s since there is a reference of William Beeston training another group of boys to take the stage. Beeston made repairs to the theatre in 1650 in the hopes that the company could start anew. Even after the London theatres were closed in 1642, William Beeston maintained a long-term commitment to re-establishing the Beeston's Boys company. He made a significant effort in 1650, during the Interregnum. Contrary to popular opinion, all dramatic activity in London did not cease with the 1642 closing of the theatres; there was a notable burst of activity in the late 1640s – players would perform plays for audiences, the London authorities would suppress them, and players would try again, whenever they thought they could get away with it. In the midst of this activity, William Beeston paid for repairs to the Cockpit Theatre and attempted to gather together a group of \"apprentices and covenant servants\" to train them for the stage. The effort, unfortunately, came to nothing in a new and harsher round of suppression by local authorities.\n\nBeeston had better luck at the start of the Restoration, when he was able to recruit a new troupe of Beeston's Boys for a time. They played at the Cockpit and the Salisbury Court Theatre in the first few years of the Restoration era.\n\n"}
{"id": "18190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18190", "title": "Language family", "text": "Language family\n\nA language family is a group of languages related through descent from a common \"ancestral language\" or \"parental language\", called the proto-language of that family. The term \"family\" reflects the tree model of language origination in historical linguistics, which makes use of a metaphor comparing languages to people in a biological family tree, or in a subsequent modification, to species in a phylogenetic tree of evolutionary taxonomy. Linguists therefore describe the \"daughter languages\" within a language family as being \"genetically related\".\n\nA \"living language\" is simply one that is used as the primary form of communication of a group of people. There are also many dead and extinct languages, as well as some that are still insufficiently studied to be classified, or are even unknown outside their respective speech communities.\n\nMembership of languages in a language family is established by comparative linguistics. Sister languages are said to have a \"genetic\" or \"genealogical\" relationship. The latter term is older. Speakers of a language family belong to a common speech community. The divergence of a proto-language into daughter languages typically occurs through geographical separation, with the original speech community gradually evolving into distinct linguistic units. Individuals belonging to other speech communities may also adopt languages from a different language family through the language shift process.\n\nGenealogically related languages present shared retentions; that is, features of the proto-language (or reflexes of such features) that cannot be explained by chance or borrowing (convergence). Membership in a branch or group within a language family is established by shared innovations; that is, common features of those languages that are not found in the common ancestor of the entire family. For example, Germanic languages are \"Germanic\" in that they share vocabulary and grammatical features that are not believed to have been present in the Proto-Indo-European language. These features are believed to be innovations that took place in Proto-Germanic, a descendant of Proto-Indo-European that was the source of all Germanic languages.\n\nLanguage families can be divided into smaller phylogenetic units, conventionally referred to as \"branches\" of the family because the history of a language family is often represented as a tree diagram. A family is a monophyletic unit; all its members derive from a common ancestor, and all attested descendants of that ancestor are included in the family. (Thus, the term \"family\" is analogous to the biological term \"clade\".) \n\nSome taxonomists restrict the term \"family\" to a certain level, but there is little consensus in how to do so. Those who affix such labels also subdivide branches into \"groups\", and groups into \"complexes\". A top-level (i.e., the largest) family is often called a \"phylum\" or \"stock\". The closer the branches are to each other, the closer the languages will be related. This means if a branch off of a proto-language is 4 branches down and there is also a sister language to that fourth branch, than each of the two sister languages are more closely related to each other than to that common ancestral proto-language.\n\nThe term \"macrofamily\" or \"superfamily\" is sometimes applied to proposed groupings of language families whose status as phylogenetic units is generally considered to be unsubstantiated by accepted historical linguistic methods. For example, the Celtic, Germanic, Slavic, Italic, and Indo-Iranian language families are branches of a larger Indo-European language family. There is a remarkably similar pattern shown by the linguistic tree and the genetic tree of human ancestry \nthat was verified statistically. Languages interpreted in terms of the putative phylogenetic tree of human languages are transmitted to a great extent vertically (by ancestry) as opposed to horizontally (by spatial diffusion).\n\nSome closely knit language families, and many branches within larger families, take the form of dialect continua in which there are no clear-cut borders that make it possible to unequivocally identify, define, or count individual languages within the family. However, when the differences between the speech of different regions at the extremes of the continuum are so great that there is no mutual intelligibility between them, as occurs in Arabic, the continuum cannot meaningfully be seen as a single language. \n\nA speech variety may also be considered either a language or a dialect depending on social or political considerations. Thus, different sources, especially over time, can give wildly different numbers of languages within a certain family. Classifications of the Japonic family, for example, range from one language (a language isolate with dialects) to nearly twenty—until the classification of Ryukyuan as separate languages within a Japonic language family rather than dialects of Japanese, the Japanese language itself was considered a language isolate and therefore the only language in its family.\n\nMost of the world's languages are known to be related to others. Those that have no known relatives (or for which family relationships are only tentatively proposed) are called language isolates, essentially language families consisting of a single language. An example is Basque. In general, it is assumed that language isolates have relatives or had relatives at some point in their history but at a time depth too great for linguistic comparison to recover them.\n\nA language isolated in its own branch within a family, such as Albanian and Armenian within Indo-European, is often also called an isolate, but the meaning of the word \"isolate\" in such cases is usually clarified with a modifier. For instance, Albanian and Armenian may be referred to as an \"Indo-European isolate\". By contrast, so far as is known, the Basque language is an absolute isolate: it has not been shown to be related to any other language despite numerous attempts. Another well-known isolate is Mapudungun, the Mapuche language from the Araucanían language family in Chile. A language may be said to be an isolate currently but not historically if related but now extinct relatives are attested. The Aquitanian language, spoken in Roman times, may have been an ancestor of Basque, but it could also have been a sister language to the ancestor of Basque. In the latter case, Basque and Aquitanian would form a small family together. (Ancestors are not considered to be distinct members of a family.)\n\nA proto-language can be thought of as a mother language (not to be confused with a mother tongue, which is one that a specific person has been exposed to from birth), being the root which all languages in the family stem from. The common ancestor of a language family is seldom known directly since most languages have a relatively short recorded history. However, it is possible to recover many features of a proto-language by applying the comparative method, a reconstructive procedure worked out by 19th century linguist August Schleicher. This can demonstrate the validity of many of the proposed families in the list of language families. For example, the reconstructible common ancestor of the Indo-European language family is called \"Proto-Indo-European\". Proto-Indo-European is not attested by written records and so is conjectured to have been spoken before the invention of writing.\n\nShared innovations, acquired by borrowing or other means, are not considered genetic and have no bearing with the language family concept. It has been asserted, for example, that many of the more striking features shared by Italic languages (Latin, Oscan, Umbrian, etc.) might well be \"areal features\". However, very similar-looking alterations in the systems of long vowels in the West Germanic languages greatly postdate any possible notion of a proto-language innovation (and cannot readily be regarded as \"areal\", either, since English and continental West Germanic were not a linguistic area). In a similar vein, there are many similar unique innovations in Germanic, Baltic and Slavic that are far more likely to be areal features than traceable to a common proto-language. But legitimate uncertainty about whether shared innovations are areal features, coincidence, or inheritance from a common ancestor, leads to disagreement over the proper subdivisions of any large language family.\n\nA sprachbund is a geographic area having several languages that feature common linguistic structures. The similarities between those languages are caused by language contact, not by chance or common origin, and are not recognized as criteria that define a language family. An example of a sprachbund would be the Indian subcontinent.\n\nThe concept of language families is based on the historical observation that languages develop dialects, which over time may diverge into distinct languages. However, linguistic ancestry is less clear-cut than familiar biological ancestry, in which species do not crossbreed. It is more like the evolution of microbes, with extensive lateral gene transfer: Quite distantly related languages may affect each other through language contact, which in extreme cases may lead to languages with no single ancestor, whether they be creoles or mixed languages. In addition, a number of sign languages have developed in isolation and appear to have no relatives at all. Nonetheless, such cases are relatively rare and most well-attested languages can be unambiguously classified as belonging to one language family or another, even if this family's relation to other families is not known.\n\n"}
{"id": "32615781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32615781", "title": "List of archives in Spain", "text": "List of archives in Spain\n\nThis is a list of archives in Spain. There are more than 30,000 archives in Spain.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51076603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51076603", "title": "List of firsts in Finland", "text": "List of firsts in Finland\n\nThis is a list of firsts in Finland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45471841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45471841", "title": "Mangei Gomango", "text": "Mangei Gomango\n\nMangei Gomango popularly known as Pandita Sabara Mangei Gamango is said to have devised the tribal language of Rayagada district. He has been awarded by Odisha Sahitya Academy.\n\nGomango was born on 16 June 1916 in Marichaguda, Rayagada, Odisha. He is regarded as the inventor of Soura Lilp(dialect). The Saura script Sorang Sompeng was developed by Mangei Gamang in 1966 for spreading the language. As a mark of respect, people called him \"Pandita Sabara\" (scholar).\n\nThe temple of Matarabnam in Marichaguda played a great role in the invention of the script. It is believed that there the Sorang Sompeng alphabet came to him in a vision on 18 June 1936. He was a poet, Arurvedic scholar and a reformer too. In 1936, he established a press in Puthasahi of Gunupur Sub division for spreading the script he invented.\n\n"}
{"id": "1904053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1904053", "title": "Marxism", "text": "Marxism\n\nMarxism is a method of socioeconomic analysis that views class relations and social conflict using a materialist interpretation of historical development and takes a dialectical view of social transformation. It originates from the works of 19th-century German philosophers Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.\n\nMarxism uses a methodology, now known as historical materialism, to analyze and critique the development of capitalism and the role of class struggles in systemic economic change.\n\nAccording to Marxist theory, class conflict arises in capitalist societies due to contradictions between the material interests of the oppressed proletariat—a class of wage labourers employed to produce goods and services—and the bourgeoisie—the ruling class that owns the means of production and extract their wealth through appropriation of the surplus product (profit) produced by the proletariat.\n\nThis class struggle that is commonly expressed as the revolt of a society's productive forces against its relations of production, results in a period of short-term crises as the bourgeoisie struggle to manage the intensifying alienation of labor experienced by the proletariat, albeit with varying degrees of class consciousness. This crisis culminates in a proletarian revolution and eventually leads to the establishment of socialism—a socioeconomic system based on social ownership of the means of production, distribution based on one's contribution and production organized directly for use. As the productive forces continued to advance, Marx hypothesized that socialism would ultimately transform into a communist society; a classless, stateless, humane society based on common ownership and the underlying principle: \"From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs\".\n\nMarxism has developed into many different branches and schools of thought, though now there is no single definitive Marxist theory. Different Marxian schools place a greater emphasis on certain aspects of classical Marxism while rejecting or modifying other aspects. Many schools of thought have sought to combine Marxian concepts and non-Marxian concepts, which has then led to contradictory conclusions. However, lately there is movement toward the recognition that historical materialism and dialectical materialism remains the fundamental aspect of all Marxist schools of thought, which should result in more agreement between different schools.\n\nMarxism has had a profound and influential impact on global academia and has expanded into many fields such as archaeology, anthropology, media studies, political science, theater, history, sociology, art history and theory, cultural studies, education, economics, ethics, criminology, geography, literary criticism, aesthetics, film theory, critical psychology and philosophy.\n\nThe term \"Marxism\" was popularized by Karl Kautsky, who considered himself an \"orthodox\" Marxist during the dispute between the orthodox and revisionist followers of Marx. Kautsky's revisionist rival Eduard Bernstein also later adopted use of the term. Engels did not support the use of the term \"Marxism\" to describe either Marx's or his views. Engels claimed that the term was being abusively used as a rhetorical qualifier by those attempting to cast themselves as \"real\" followers of Marx while casting others in different terms, such as \"Lassallians\". In 1882, Engels claimed that Marx had criticized self-proclaimed \"Marxist\" Paul Lafargue, by saying that if Lafargue's views were considered \"Marxist\", then \"one thing is certain and that is that I am not a Marxist\".\n\nMarxism analyzes the material conditions and the economic activities required to fulfill human material needs to explain social phenomena within any given society.\n\nIt assumes that the form of economic organization, or mode of production, influences all other social phenomena—including social relations, political institutions, legal systems, cultural systems, aesthetics, and ideologies. The economic system and these social relations form a base and superstructure.\n\nAs forces of production, i.e. technology, improve, existing forms of social organization become obsolete and hinder further progress. As Karl Marx observed: \"At a certain stage of development, the material productive forces of society come into conflict with the existing relations of production or—this merely expresses the same thing in legal terms—with the property relations within the framework of which they have operated hitherto. From forms of development of the productive forces these relations turn into their fetters. Then begins an era of social revolution\". These inefficiencies manifest themselves as social contradictions in society in the form of class struggle.\n\nUnder the capitalist mode of production, this struggle materializes between the minority (the bourgeoisie) who own the means of production and the vast majority of the population (the proletariat) who produce goods and services. Starting with the conjectural premise that social change occurs because of the struggle between different classes within society who are under contradiction against each other, a Marxist would conclude that capitalism exploits and oppresses the proletariat, therefore capitalism will inevitably lead to a proletarian revolution.\n\nMarxian economics and its proponents view capitalism as economically unsustainable and incapable of improving the living standards of the population due to its need to compensate for falling rates of profit by cutting employee's wages, social benefits and pursuing military aggression. The socialist system would succeed capitalism as humanity's mode of production through workers' revolution. According to Marxian crisis theory, socialism is not an inevitability, but an economic necessity.\n\nIn a socialist society, private property—in the form of the means of production—would be replaced by co-operative ownership. A socialist economy would not base production on the creation of private profits, but on the criteria of satisfying human needs—that is, production would be carried out directly for use. As Friedrich Engels said: \"Then the capitalist mode of appropriation in which the product enslaves first the producer, and then appropriator, is replaced by the mode of appropriation of the product that is based upon the nature of the modern means of production; upon the one hand, direct social appropriation, as means to the maintenance and extension of production on the other, direct individual appropriation, as means of subsistence and of enjoyment\".\n\nThe materialist theory of history analyses the underlying causes of societal development and change from the perspective of the collective ways that humans make their living. All constituent features of a society (social classes, political pyramid, ideologies) are assumed to stem from economic activity, an idea often portrayed with the metaphor of the base and superstructure.\n\nThe base and superstructure metaphor describes the totality of social relations by which humans produce and re-produce their social existence. According to Marx: \"The sum total of the forces of production accessible to men determines the condition of society\" and forms a society's economic base. The base includes the material forces of production, that is the labour and material means of production and relations of production, i.e., the social and political arrangements that regulate production and distribution. From this base rises a superstructure of legal and political \"forms of social consciousness\" of political and legal institutions that derive from the economic base that conditions the superstructure and a society's dominant ideology. Conflicts between the development of material productive forces and the relations of production provokes social revolutions and thus the resultant changes to the economic base will lead to the transformation of the superstructure. This relationship is reflexive, as at first the base gives rise to the superstructure and remains the foundation of a form of social organization, hence that formed social organization can act again upon both parts of the base and superstructure so that the relationship is not static but a dialectic, expressed and driven by conflicts and contradictions. As Engels clarified: \"The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles. Freeman and slave, patrician and plebeian, lord and serf, guild-master and journeyman, in a word, oppressor and oppressed, stood in constant opposition to one another, carried on uninterrupted, now hidden, now open fight, a fight that each time ended, either in a revolutionary reconstitution of society at large, or in the common ruin of the contending classes\".\n\nMarx considered class conflicts as the driving force of human history since these recurring conflicts have manifested themselves as distinct transitional stages of development in Western Europe. Accordingly, Marx designated human history as encompassing four stages of development in relations of production:\n\nAccording to the Marxist theoretician and revolutionary Vladimir Lenin, \"the principal content of Marxism\" was \"Marx's economic doctrine\". Marx believed that the capitalist bourgeois and their economists were promoting what he saw as the lie that \"the interests of the capitalist and of the worker are ... one and the same\", therefore he believed that they did this by purporting the concept that \"the fastest possible growth of productive capital\" was best not only for the wealthy capitalists but also for the workers because it provided them with employment.\n\nExploitation is a matter of surplus labour—the amount of labour one performs beyond what one receives in goods. Exploitation has been a socioeconomic feature of every class society and is one of the principal features distinguishing the social classes. The power of one social class to control the means of production enables its exploitation of the other classes.\n\nIn capitalism, the labour theory of value is the operative concern; the value of a commodity equals the socially necessary labour time required to produce it. Under that condition, surplus value (the difference between the value produced and the value received by a labourer) is synonymous with the term \"surplus labour\", thus capitalist exploitation is realised as deriving surplus value from the worker.\n\nIn pre-capitalist economies, exploitation of the worker was achieved via physical coercion. In the capitalist mode of production, that result is more subtly achieved and because workers do not own the means of production, they must voluntarily enter into an exploitive work relationship with a capitalist in order to earn the necessities of life. The worker's entry into such employment is voluntary in that they choose which capitalist to work for. However, the worker must work or starve, thus exploitation is inevitable and the \"voluntary\" nature of a worker participating in a capitalist society is illusory.\nAlienation is the estrangement of people from their humanity ( \"Gattungswesen\", \"species-essence\", \"species-being\"), which is a systematic result of capitalism. Under capitalism, the fruits of production belong to the employers, who expropriate the surplus created by others and so generate alienated labourers. In Marx's view, alienation is an objective characterization of the worker's situation in capitalism—his or her self-awareness of this condition is not prerequisite.\n\nMarx distinguishes social classes on the basis of two criteria: ownership of means of production and control over the labour power of others. Following this criterion of class based on property relations, Marx identified the social stratification of the capitalist mode of production with the following social groups:\n\nClass consciousness denotes the awareness—of itself and the social world—that a social class possesses and its capacity to rationally act in their best interests, hence class consciousness is required before they can effect a successful revolution and thus the dictatorship of the proletariat.\n\nWithout defining ideology, Marx used the term to describe the production of images of social reality. According to Engels, \"ideology is a process accomplished by the so-called thinker consciously, it is true, but with a false consciousness. The real motive forces impelling him remain unknown to him; otherwise it simply would not be an ideological process. Hence he imagines false or seeming motive forces\". Because the ruling class controls the society's means of production, the superstructure of society (the ruling social ideas), are determined by the best interests of the ruling class. In \"The German Ideology\", he says \"[t]he ideas of the ruling class are in every epoch the ruling ideas, i.e., the class which is the ruling material force of society, is, at the same time, its ruling intellectual force.\"\n\nThe term \"political economy\" initially referred to the study of the material conditions of economic production in the capitalist system. In Marxism, political economy is the study of the means of production, specifically of capital and how that manifests as economic activity.\nThis new way of thinking was invented because socialists believed that common ownership of the \"means of production\" (that is the industries, the land, the wealth of nature, the trade apparatus, the wealth of the society, etc.) will abolish the exploitative working conditions experienced under capitalism. Through working class revolution, the state (which Marxists see as a weapon for the subjugation of one class by another) is seized and used to suppress the hitherto ruling class of capitalists and by implementing a commonly-owned, democratically controlled workplace create the society of communism, which Marxists see as true democracy. An economy based on co-operation on human need and social betterment, rather than competition for profit of many independently acting profit seekers, would also be the end of class society, which Marx saw as the fundamental division of all hitherto existing history.\n\nMarx saw work, the effort by humans to transform the environment for their needs, as a fundamental feature of human kind. Capitalism, in which the product of the worker's labor is taken from them and sold at market rather than being part of the worker's life, is therefore alienating to the worker. Additionally, the worker is compelled by various means (some nicer than others) to work harder, faster and for longer hours. While this is happening, the employer is constantly trying to save on labor costs: pay the workers less, figure out how to use cheaper equipment, etc. This allows the employer to extract the largest mount of work (and therefore potential wealth) from their workers. The fundamental nature of capitalist society is no different from that of slave society: one small group of society exploiting the larger group.\n\nThrough common ownership of the means of production, the profit motive is eliminated and the motive of furthering human flourishing is introduced. Because the surplus produced by the workers is property of the society as whole, there are no classes of producers and appropriators. Additionally, the state, which has its origins in the bands of retainers hired by the first ruling classes to protect their economic privilege, will disappear as its conditions of existence have disappeared.\n\nAccording to orthodox Marxist theory, the overthrow of capitalism by a socialist revolution in contemporary society is inevitable. While the inevitability of an eventual socialist revolution is a controversial debate among many different Marxist schools of thought, all Marxists believe socialism is a necessity, if not inevitable. Marxists believe that a socialist society is far better for the majority of the populace than its capitalist counterpart. Prior to the Russian revolution of 1917, Lenin wrote: \"The socialization of production is bound to lead to the conversion of the means of production into the property of society ... This conversion will directly result in an immense increase in productivity of labour, a reduction of working hours, and the replacement of the remnants, the ruins of small-scale, primitive, disunited production by collective and improved labour\". The failure of the 1905 revolution and the failure of socialist movements to resist the outbreak of World War One led to renewed theoretical effort and valuable contributions from Lenin and Rosa Luxemburg towards an appreciation of Marx's crisis theory and efforts to formulate a theory of imperialism.\n\n\"Classical Marxism\" denotes the collection of socio-eco-political theories expounded by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. \"Marxism\", as Ernest Mandel remarked, \"is always open, always critical, always self-critical\". As such, classical Marxism distinguishes between \"Marxism\" as broadly perceived and \"what Marx believed\", thus in 1883 Marx wrote to the French labour leader Jules Guesde and to Marx's son-in-law Paul Lafargue—both of whom claimed to represent Marxist principles—accusing them of \"revolutionary phrase-mongering\" and of denying the value of reformist struggle.\n\nFrom Marx's letter derives the paraphrase:\"If that is Marxism, then I am not a Marxist\". American Marxist scholar Hal Draper responded to this comment by saying: \"There are few thinkers in modern history whose thought has been so badly misrepresented, by Marxists and anti-Marxists alike\". On the other hand, the book \"Communism: The Great Misunderstanding\" argues that the source of such misrepresentations lies in ignoring the philosophy of Marxism, which is dialectical materialism. In large, this was due to the fact that \"The German Ideology\", in which Marx and Engels developed this philosophy, did not find a publisher for almost one hundred years.\n\nMarxism has been adopted by a large number of academics and other scholars working in various disciplines.\n\nThe theoretical development of Marxist archaeology was first developed in the Soviet Union in 1929, when a young archaeologist named Vladislav I. Ravdonikas (1894–1976) published a report entitled \"For a Soviet history of material culture\". Within this work, the very discipline of archaeology as it then stood was criticised as being inherently bourgeois, therefore anti-socialist and so, as a part of the academic reforms instituted in the Soviet Union under the administration of Premier Joseph Stalin, a great emphasis was placed on the adoption of Marxist archaeology throughout the country. These theoretical developments were subsequently adopted by archaeologists working in capitalist states outside of the Leninist bloc, most notably by the Australian academic V. Gordon Childe (1892–1957), who used Marxist theory in his understandings of the development of human society.\n\nMarxist sociology is the study of sociology from a Marxist perspective. Marxist sociology is \"a form of conflict theory associated with ... Marxism's objective of developing a positive (empirical) science of capitalist society as part of the mobilization of a revolutionary working class\". The American Sociological Association has a section dedicated to the issues of Marxist sociology that is \"interested in examining how insights from Marxist methodology and Marxist analysis can help explain the complex dynamics of modern society\". Influenced by the thought of Karl Marx, Marxist sociology emerged during the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th century. As well as Marx, Max Weber and Émile Durkheim are considered seminal influences in early sociology. The first Marxist school of sociology was known as Austro-Marxism, of which Carl Grünberg and Antonio Labriola were among its most notable members. During the 1940s, the Western Marxist school became accepted within Western academia, subsequently fracturing into several different perspectives such as the Frankfurt School or critical theory. Due to its former state-supported position, there has been a backlash against Marxist thought in post-communist states (see sociology in Poland) but it remains dominant in the sociological research sanctioned and supported by those communist states that remain (see sociology in China).\n\nMarxian economics refers to a school of economic thought tracing its foundations to the critique of classical political economy first expounded upon by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. Marxian economics concerns itself with the analysis of crisis in capitalism, the role and distribution of the surplus product and surplus value in various types of economic systems, the nature and origin of economic value, the impact of class and class struggle on economic and political processes, and the process of economic evolution. Although the Marxian school is considered heterodox, ideas that have come out of Marxian economics have contributed to mainstream understanding of the global economy. Certain concepts of Marxian economics, especially those related to capital accumulation and the business cycle, such as creative destruction, have been fitted for use in capitalist systems.\n\nMarxist historiography is a school of historiography influenced by Marxism. The chief tenets of Marxist historiography are the centrality of social class and economic constraints in determining historical outcomes. Marxist historiography has made contributions to the history of the working class, oppressed nationalities, and the methodology of history from below. Friedrich Engels' most important historical contribution was \"Der deutsche Bauernkrieg\" (\"The German Peasants' War\"), which analysed social warfare in early Protestant Germany in terms of emerging capitalist classes. \"The German Peasants' War\" indicate the Marxist interest in history from below and class analysis, and attempts a dialectical analysis. Engels' short treatise \"The Condition of the Working Class in England in 1844\" (1870s) was salient in creating the socialist impetus in British politics. Marx's most important works on social and political history include \"The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Napoleon\", \"The Communist Manifesto\", \"The German Ideology\", and those chapters of \"Das Kapital\" dealing with the historical emergence of capitalists and proletarians from pre-industrial English society. Marxist historiography suffered in the Soviet Union, as the government requested overdetermined historical writing. Notable histories include the \"Short Course History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Bolshevik)\", published in the 1930s to justify the nature of Bolshevik party life under Joseph Stalin. A circle of historians inside the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB) formed in 1946. While some members of the group (most notably Christopher Hill and E. P. Thompson) left the CPGB after the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, the common points of British Marxist historiography continued in their works. Thompson's \"The Making of the English Working Class\" is one of the works commonly associated with this group. Eric Hobsbawm's \"Bandits\" is another example of this group's work. C. L. R. James was also a great pioneer of the 'history from below' approach. Living in Britain when he wrote his most notable work \"The Black Jacobins\" (1938), he was an anti-Stalinist Marxist and so outside of the CPGB. In India, B. N. Datta and D. D. Kosambi are considered the founding fathers of Marxist historiography. Today, the senior-most scholars of Marxist historiography are R. S. Sharma, Irfan Habib, Romila Thapar, D. N. Jha and K. N. Panikkar, most of whom are now over 75 years old.\n\nMarxist literary criticism is a loose term describing literary criticism based on socialist and dialectic theories. Marxist criticism views literary works as reflections of the social institutions from which they originate. According to Marxists, even literature itself is a social institution and has a specific ideological function, based on the background and ideology of the author. Notable marxist literary critics include Mikhail Bakhtin, Walter Benjamin, Terry Eagleton and Fredric Jameson. Marxist aesthetics is a theory of aesthetics based on, or derived from, the theories of Karl Marx. It involves a dialectical and materialist, or dialectical materialist, approach to the application of Marxism to the cultural sphere, specifically areas related to taste such as art, beauty, etc. Marxists believe that economic and social conditions, and especially the class relations that derive from them, affect every aspect of an individual's life, from religious beliefs to legal systems to cultural frameworks. Some notable Marxist aestheticians include Anatoly Lunacharsky, Mikhail Lifshitz, William Morris, Theodor W. Adorno, Bertolt Brecht, Herbert Marcuse, Walter Benjamin, Antonio Gramsci, Georg Lukács, Louis Althusser, Jacques Rancière, Maurice Merleau-Ponty and Raymond Williams.\n\nAccording to a 2007 survey of American professors by Neil Gross and Solon Simmons, 17.6% of social science professors and 5.0% of humanities professors identify as Marxists, while between 0 and 2% of professors in all other disciplines identify as Marxists.\n\nKarl Marx (5 May 1818 – 14 March 1883) was a German philosopher, political economist and socialist revolutionary who addressed the matters of alienation and exploitation of the working class, the capitalist mode of production and historical materialism. He is famous for analysing history in terms of class struggle, summarised in the initial line introducing \"The Communist Manifesto\" (1848): \"The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles\".\n\nFriedrich Engels (28 November 1820 – 5 August 1895) was a German political philosopher who together with Marx co-developed communist theory. Marx and Engels first met in September 1844. Discovering that they had similar views of philosophy and socialism, they collaborated and wrote works such as \"Die heilige Familie\" (\"The Holy Family\"). After Marx was deported from France in January 1845, they moved to Belgium, which then permitted greater freedom of expression than other European countries. In January 1846, they returned to Brussels to establish the Communist Correspondence Committee.\n\nIn 1847, they began writing \"The Communist Manifesto\" (1848), based on Engels' \"The Principles of Communism\". Six weeks later, they published the 12,000-word pamphlet in February 1848. In March, Belgium expelled them and they moved to Cologne, where they published the \"Neue Rheinische Zeitung\", a politically radical newspaper. By 1849, they had to leave Cologne for London. The Prussian authorities pressured the British government to expel Marx and Engels, but Prime Minister Lord John Russell refused.\n\nAfter Marx's death in 1883, Engels became the editor and translator of Marx's writings. With his \"Origins of the Family, Private Property, and the State\" (1884) – analysing monogamous marriage as guaranteeing male social domination of women, a concept analogous, in communist theory, to the capitalist class's economic domination of the working class—Engels made intellectually significant contributions to feminist theory and Marxist feminism.\n\nIn 1959, the Cuban Revolution led to the victory of Fidel Castro and his July 26 Movement. Although the revolution was not explicitly socialist, upon victory Castro ascended to the position of Prime Minister and adopted the Leninist model of socialist development, forging an alliance with the Soviet Union. One of the leaders of the revolution, the Argentine Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara (1928–1967), subsequently went on to aid revolutionary socialist movements in Congo-Kinshasa and Bolivia, eventually being killed by the Bolivian government, possibly on the orders of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), though the CIA agent sent to search for Guevara, Felix Rodriguez, expressed a desire to keep him alive as a possible bargaining tool with the Cuban government. He would posthumously go on to become an internationally recognised icon.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, the Maoist government undertook the Cultural Revolution from 1966 through to 1976 to ameliorate capitalist elements of Chinese society and achieve socialism. However, upon Mao Zedong's death, his rivals seized political power and under the Premiership of Deng Xiaoping (1978–1992), many of Mao's Cultural Revolution era policies were revised or abandoned and much of the state sector privatised.\n\nThe late 1980s and early 1990s saw the collapse of most of those socialist states that had professed a Marxist–Leninist ideology. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the emergence of the New Right and neoliberal capitalism as the dominant ideological trends in western politics—championed by U.S. President Ronald Reagan and U.K. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher—led the west to take a more aggressive stand against the Soviet Union and its Leninist allies. Meanwhile, in the Soviet Union the reformist Mikhael Gorbachev became Premier in March 1985 and sought to abandon Leninist models of development towards social democracy. Ultimately, Gorbachev's reforms, coupled with rising levels of popular ethnic nationalism in the Soviet Union, led to the state's dissolution in late 1991 into a series of constituent nations, all of which abandoned Marxist–Leninist models for socialism, with most converting to capitalist economies.\n\nAt the turn of the 21st century, China, Cuba, Laos, North Korea and Vietnam remained the only officially Marxist–Leninist states remaining, although a Maoist government led by Prachanda was elected into power in Nepal in 2008 following a long guerrilla struggle.\n\nThe early 21st century also saw the election of socialist governments in several Latin American nations, in what has come to be known as the \"pink tide\". Dominated by the Venezuelan government of Hugo Chávez, this trend also saw the election of Evo Morales in Bolivia, Rafael Correa in Ecuador and Daniel Ortega in Nicaragua. Forging political and economic alliances through international organisations like the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas, these socialist governments allied themselves with Marxist–Leninist Cuba and although none of them espoused a Leninist path directly, most admitted to being significantly influenced by Marxist theory.\n\nFor Italian Marxist Gianni Vattimo in his 2011 book \"Hermeneutic Communism\", \"this new weak communism differs substantially from its previous Soviet (and current Chinese) realization, because the South American countries follow democratic electoral procedures and also manage to decentralize the state bureaucratic system through the Bolivarian missions. In sum, if weakened communism is felt as a specter in the West, it is not only because of media distortions but also for the alternative it represents through the same democratic procedures that the West constantly professes to cherish but is hesitant to apply\".\n\nChinese President Xi Jinping has announced a deepening commitment of the Chinese Communist Party to the ideas of Marx. At an event celebrating the 200th anniversary of Marx's birth, Xi said “We must win the advantages, win the initiative, and win the future. We must continuously improve the ability to use Marxism to analyse and solve practical problems...” also adding “powerful ideological weapon for us to understand the world, grasp the law, seek the truth, and change the world,”. Xi has further stressed the importance of examining and continuing the tradition of the CPC and embrace its revolutionary past.\n\nCriticisms of Marxism have come from various political ideologies and academic disciplines. These include general criticisms about lack of internal consistency, criticisms related to historical materialism, that it is a type of historical determinism, the necessity of suppression of individual rights, issues with the implementation of communism and economic issues such as the distortion or absence of price signals and reduced incentives. In addition, empirical and epistemological problems are frequently identified.\n\nSome Marxists have criticised the academic institutionalisation of Marxism for being too shallow and detached from political action. For instance, Zimbabwean Trotskyist Alex Callinicos, himself a professional academic, stated: \"Its practitioners remind one of Narcissus, who in the Greek legend fell in love with his own reflection ... Sometimes it is necessary to devote time to clarifying and developing the concepts that we use, but indeed for Western Marxists this has become an end in itself. The result is a body of writings incomprehensible to all but a tiny minority of highly qualified scholars\".\n\nAdditionally, there are intellectual critiques of Marxism that contest certain assumptions prevalent in Marx's thought and Marxism after him, without exactly rejecting Marxist politics. Other contemporary supporters of Marxism argue that many aspects of Marxist thought are viable, but that the corpus is incomplete or outdated in regards to certain aspects of economic, political or social theory. They may therefore combine some Marxist concepts with the ideas of other theorists such as Max Weber—the Frankfurt School is one example.\n\nPhilosopher and historian of ideas Leszek Kołakowski pointed out that \"Marx's theory is incomplete or ambiguous in many places, and could be 'applied' in many contradictory ways without manifestly infringing its principles\". Specifically, he considers \"the laws of dialectics\" as fundamentally erroneous, stating that some are \"truisms with no specific Marxist content\", others \"philosophical dogmas that cannot be proved by scientific means\" and some just \"nonsense\". He believes that some Marxist laws can be interpreted differently, but that these interpretations still in general fall into one of the two categories of error.\n\nOkishio's theorem shows that if capitalists use cost-cutting techniques and real wages do not increase, the rate of profit must rise, which casts doubt on Marx's view that the rate of profit would tend to fall.\n\nThe allegations of inconsistency have been a large part of Marxian economics and the debates around it since the 1970s. Andrew Kliman argues that this undermines Marx's critiques and the correction of the alleged inconsistencies, because internally inconsistent theories cannot be right by definition.\n\nMarx's predictions have been criticized because they have allegedly failed, with some pointing towards the GDP per capita increasing generally in capitalist economies compared to less market oriented economics, the capitalist economies not suffering worsening economic crises leading to the overthrow of the capitalist system and communist revolutions not occurring in the most advanced capitalist nations, but instead in undeveloped regions.\n\nIn his books \"The Poverty of Historicism\" and \"Conjectures and Refutations\", philosopher of science Karl Popper, criticized the explanatory power and validity of historical materialism. Popper believed that Marxism had been initially scientific, in that Marx had postulated a genuinely predictive theory. When these predictions were not in fact borne out, Popper argues that the theory avoided falsification by the addition of ad hoc hypotheses that made it compatible with the facts. Because of this, Popper asserted, a theory that was initially genuinely scientific degenerated into pseudoscientific dogma.\n\nDemocratic socialists and social democrats reject the idea that socialism can be accomplished only through extra-legal class conflict and a proletarian revolution. The relationship between Marx and other socialist thinkers and organizations—rooted in Marxism's \"scientific\" and anti-utopian socialism, among other factors—has divided Marxists from other socialists since Marx's life.\n\nAfter Marx's death and with the emergence of Marxism, there have also been dissensions within Marxism itself—a notable example is the splitting of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party into Bolsheviks and Mensheviks. Orthodox Marxists became opposed to a less dogmatic, more innovative, or even revisionist Marxism.\n\nAnarchism has had a strained relationship with Marxism since Marx's life. Anarchists and many non-Marxist libertarian socialists reject the need for a transitory state phase, claiming that socialism can only be established through decentralized, non-coercive organization. Anarchist Mikhail Bakunin criticized Marx for his authoritarian bent. The phrases \"barracks socialism\" or \"barracks communism\" became a shorthand for this critique, evoking the image of citizens' lives being as regimented as the lives of conscripts in a barracks. Noam Chomsky is critical of Marxism's dogmatic strains and the idea of Marxism itself, but still appreciates Marx's contributions to political thought. Unlike some anarchists, Chomsky does not consider Bolshevism \"Marxism in practice\", but he does recognize that Marx was a complicated figure who had conflicting ideas, while he also acknowledges the latent authoritarianism in Marx he also points to the libertarian strains that developed into the council communism of Rosa Luxemburg and Anton Pannekoek. However, his commitment to libertarian socialism has led him to characterize himself as an anarchist with radical Marxist leanings (see political positions of Noam Chomsky).\n\nLibertarian Marxism refers to a broad scope of economic and political philosophies that emphasize the anti-authoritarian aspects of Marxism. Early currents of libertarian Marxism, known as left communism, emerged in opposition to Marxism–Leninism and its derivatives such as Stalinism, Ceaușism and Maoism. Libertarian Marxism is also often critical of reformist positions, such as those held by social democrats. Libertarian Marxist currents often draw from Marx and Engels' later works, specifically the \"Grundrisse\" and \"The Civil War in France\", emphasizing the Marxist belief in the ability of the working class to forge its own destiny without the need for a revolutionary party or state to mediate or aid its liberation. Along with anarchism, libertarian Marxism is one of the main currents of libertarian socialism.\n\nOther critiques come from an economic standpoint. Vladimir Karpovich Dmitriev writing in 1898, Ladislaus von Bortkiewicz writing in 1906–1907 and subsequent critics have alleged that Marx's value theory and law of the tendency of the rate of profit to fall are internally inconsistent. In other words, the critics allege that Marx drew conclusions that actually do not follow from his theoretical premises. Once these alleged errors are corrected, his conclusion that aggregate price and profit are determined by and equal to aggregate value and surplus value no longer holds true. This result calls into question his theory that the exploitation of workers is the sole source of profit.\n\nBoth Marxism and socialism have received considerable critical analysis from multiple generations of Austrian economists in terms of scientific methodology, economic theory and political implications. During the marginal revolution, subjective value theory was rediscovered by Carl Menger, a development that fundamentally undermined the British cost theories of value. The restoration of subjectivism and praxeological methodology previously used by classical economists including Richard Cantillon, Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot, Jean-Baptiste Say and Frédéric Bastiat led Menger to criticise historicist methodology in general. Second-generation Austrian economist Eugen Böhm von Bawerk used praxeological and subjectivist methodology to attack the law of value fundamentally. Non-Marxist economists have regarded his criticism as definitive, with Gottfried Haberler arguing that Böhm-Bawerk's critique of Marx's economics was so thorough and devastating that as of the 1960s no Marxian scholar had conclusively refuted it. Third-generation Austrian Ludwig von Mises rekindled debate about the economic calculation problem by identifying that without price signals in capital goods, all other aspects of the market economy are irrational. This led him to declare that \"rational economic activity is impossible in a socialist commonwealth\".\n\nDaron Acemoglu and James A. Robinson argue that Marx's economic theory was fundamentally flawed because it attempted to simplify the economy into a few general laws that ignored the impact of institutions on the economy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32740886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32740886", "title": "Mihály Balázs", "text": "Mihály Balázs\n\nMihály Balázs (born 1948) is a Hungarian Catholic historian and professor of religious history at the University of Szeged. He is widely regarded as an expert on the religious history of Hungarian-speaking Transylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "22561286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22561286", "title": "Monumental sculpture", "text": "Monumental sculpture\n\nIn contemporary art, monumental sculpture is large sculpture regardless of purpose, carrying a sense of permanent, solid, objects, rather than the temporary or fragile assemblages used in much contemporary sculpture. In ancient and medieval sculpture, size is normally taken as the criterion for definition, although smaller architectural sculptures may also be labelled monumental sculpture. In the Early Modern period a specific funerary function may be attributed to monumental sculpture.\n\nHistorically monumental sculpture (using the size criterion) in a culture, is regarded as of great significance. A culture may cease to produce monumental sculpture due to societal collapse or aniconism, usually religiously motivated.\nThe term \"monumental sculpture\" is often used in art history and criticism, but not always consistently. It combines two concepts, one of function, and one of size, and may include an element of a third more subjective concept. It is often used for all sculptures that are large. Human figures that are perhaps half life-size or above would usually be considered monumental in this sense by art historians, although in contemporary art a rather larger overall scale is implied. Monumental sculpture is therefore distinguished from small portable figurines, small metal or ivory reliefs, diptychs and the like.\n\nIt is also used of sculpture that is architectural in function, especially if used to create or form part of a monument of some sort, and therefore capitals and reliefs attached to buildings will be included, even if small in size. Typical functions of monuments are as grave markers, tomb monuments or memorials, and expressions of the power of a ruler or community, to which churches and so religious statues are added by convention, although in some contexts monumental sculpture may specifically mean just funerary sculpture for church monuments. A related idea is that of permanence, emphasized in some discussions of the term.\n\nThe third concept that may be involved when the term is used is not specific to sculpture, as the other two essentially are. The entry for \"Monumental\" in \"A Dictionary of Art and Artists\" by Peter and Linda Murray describes it as:\"The most overworked word in current art history and criticism. It is intended to convey the idea that a particular work of art, or part of such a work, is grand, noble, elevated in idea, simple in conception and execution, without any excess of virtuousity, and having something of the enduring, stable, and timeless nature of great architecture. ... It is not a synonym for 'large'. \n\nHowever, this does not constitute an accurate or adequate description of the use of the term for sculpture, though many uses of the term that essentially mean either large or \"used in a memorial\" may involve this concept also, in ways that are hard to separate. For example, when Meyer Schapiro, after a chapter analysing the carved capitals at Moissac, says: \"in the tympanum of the south portal [\"(right)\"] the sculpture of Moissac becomes truly monumental. It is placed above the level of the eye, and is so large as to dominate the entire entrance. It is a gigantic semi-circular relief ...\", size is certainly the dominant part of what he means by the word, and Schapiro's further comments suggest that a lack of \"excess of virtuousity\" does not form part of what he intends to convey. Nonetheless, parts of the Murray's concept (\"grand, noble, elevated in idea\") are included in his meaning, although \"simple in conception and execution\" hardly seems to apply.\n\nThe term 'Monumental Sculptures' has acquired various meanings over the years, but these different meanings have not caused much difficulty in classification, as the various interpretations incorporate the changing nature of sculptures through temporal and spacial landscapes in this category. The term may be used differently for different periods in history, with breaks occurring around the Renaissance and the early 20th century. The ancient and medieval sculpture size is normally taken as the criterion for definition, although smaller architectural sculptures can also be addressed by the term. In the Early Modern period a specific funerary function may have been meant, but the meaning of size was once again adopted while referring to contemporary sculpture.\n\nIn archeology and art history the appearance, and sometimes disappearance, of monumental sculpture (using the size criterion) in a culture, is regarded as of great significance, though tracing the emergence is often complicated by the presumed existence of sculpture in wood and other perishable materials of which no record remains; the totem pole is an example of a tradition of monumental sculpture in wood that would leave no traces for archaeology. The ability to summon the resources to create monumental sculpture, by transporting usually very heavy materials and arranging for the payment of what are usually regarded as full-time sculptors, is considered a mark of a relatively advanced culture in terms of social organization.\nIn Ancient Egypt, the Great Sphinx of Giza probably dates to the 3rd millennium BC and may be older than the Pyramids of Egypt. Recent unexpected discoveries of Ancient Chinese bronze age figures at Sanxingdui, some more than twice human size, have disturbed many ideas held about early Chinese civilization, since only much smaller bronzes were previously known. Some undoubtedly advanced cultures, such as the Indus Valley civilization, appear to have had no monumental sculpture at all, though producing very sophisticated figurines and seals. The Mississippian culture seems to have progressing towards its use, with small stone figures, when it collapsed. Other cultures, such as Ancient Egypt and the Easter Island culture, seem to have devoted enormous resources to very large-scale monumental sculpture from a very early stage.\n\nThere may be a number of reasons why a culture ceases to produce monumental sculpture. The most common is societal collapse, as occurred in Europe during the so-called Dark Ages or the Classic Maya collapse in Mesoamerica. Another may be aniconism, usually religiously motivated, as followed the Muslim conquests. Both the rise of Christianity (initially) and later the Protestant Reformation brought a halt to religious monumental sculpture in the regions concerned, and greatly reduced production of any monumental sculpture for several centuries. Byzantine art, which had largely avoided the societal collapse in the Western Roman Empire, never resumed the use of monumental figurative sculpture, whether in religious or secular contexts, and was to ban even two-dimensional religious art for a period in the Byzantine iconoclasm.\n\nMonumental sculpture is still used within the stoneworking and funeral trades to cover all forms of grave headstones and other funerary art, regardless of size. In contemporary art, however, it is used to refer to all large sculptures regardless of purpose, and also carries a sense of permanent, solid, objects, rather than the temporary or fragile assemblages used in much contemporary sculpture. Sculptures covered by the term in modern art are likely to be over two metres in at least one dimension, and sufficiently large not to need a high plinth, though they may have one. Many are still commissioned as public art, often for placing at outdoor sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "4735866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4735866", "title": "Ordo Virtutum", "text": "Ordo Virtutum\n\nOrdo Virtutum (Latin for \"Order of the Virtues\") is an allegorical morality play, or liturgical drama, by St. Hildegard, composed c. 1151, during the construction and relocation of her Abbey at Rupertsberg. It is the earliest morality play by more than a century, and the only Medieval musical drama to survive with an attribution for both the text and the music.\n\nA short version of \"Ordo Virtutum\" without music appears at the end of \"Scivias\", Hildegard's most famous account of her visions. It is also included in some manuscripts of the \"Symphonia armoniae celestium revelationum\" (\"Symphony of the Harmony of Celestial Revelations\"), a cycle of more than 70 liturgical songs. It may have been performed by the convent nuns at the dedication of the St. Rupertsberg church in 1152 or possibly before the Mass for the Consecration of Virgins at the convent .\n\nThe subject of the play is typical for a musical drama. It shows no biblical events, no depiction of a saint's life, and no miracles. Instead, \"Ordo Virtutum\" is about the struggle for a human soul, or Anima, between the Virtues and the Devil. The idea that Hildegard is trying to develop in Ordo Virtutum is the reconnection between the \"creator and creation\"\n\nThe piece can be divided as follows:\n\nPart I: Prologue in which the Virtues are introduced to the Patriarchs and Prophets who marvel at the Virtues.\n\nPart II: We hear the complaints of souls that are imprisoned in bodies. The (for now) happy Soul enters and her voice contrasts with the unhappy souls. However, the Soul is too eager to skip life and go straight to Heaven. When the Virtues tell her that she has to live first, the Devil seduces her away to worldly things.\n\nPart III: The Virtues take turns identifying and describing themselves while the Devil occasionally interrupts and expresses opposing views and insults. This is the longest section by far and, although devoid of drama or plot, the musical elements of this section make it stand out.\n\nPart IV: The Soul returns, repentant. Once the Virtues have accepted her back, they turn on the Devil, whom they bind. Together they conquer the Devil and then God is praised.\n\nPart V: A procession of all the characters.\n\n\nThe meaning and emphasis of the Ordo Virtutum in Hildegard of Bingen's community is affected by which persons in the community played which roles, and how they related to each other at the time of the performance. It has been suggested that the soul represents Richardis von Stade, Hildegard’s friend and fellow nun, who had left to become abbess of another convent. Hildegard was upset by this appointment and tried to have it revoked, appealing even to Pope Eugene III. However, Hildegard was unsuccessful and Richardis departed, only to die shortly thereafter on October 29, 1151. Other scholarship propose an allusion to Hildegard's brother Bruno. Before dying Richardis told her brother that she wanted to return to Hildegard, not unlike the returning, repentant Soul of Ordo Virtutum.\n\nThe title of the piece is called Ordo Virtutum, which is typically translated to \" Virtue Play\". Many people are not aware that Ordo Virtutum's translation from Latin actually serves as a double meaning can also be translated to \"Rules by which the world works\".\n\nHildegard of Bingen was never classically trained in composition, nor was she trained to play instruments. She was \"self-taught\", although not in a way that many people would expect. Her whole life Hildegard of Bingen claimed to be both Clairvoyant and Clairaudient. The music came to her in her trances and that is how she was able to compose that many pieces without any formal training. She also attempted to describe what she was going through in her works such as Ordo Virtutum.\n\nThe performance of music of any kind in the abbeys of the medieval era would be a cause for celebration. The majority of the life of nuns would have been lead without speaking due to their vow of silence. The sisters dedicate their lives to poverty and would not indulge in human wants. The lives of women in this life would have been dedicated to the service of their community and God the Father. Speaking any idle words would have been seen as offensive. The performance of Ordo Virtutum would be a chance to use the human voice as a vessel for praise. The play was seen as a spiritual celebration and the joy of overcoming human weakness. A moment of religious celebration, at the consecration of an abbey, would have allowed the women to enjoy the joy of music while still worshiping God.\n\nIn addition to the use of the human voice as a vessel for praise, it was found that music and rhythm had healing properties and could be used for good. Hildegard of Bingen believed that music had a direct correlation with the opening of Dys­anaesthesia (which is also known as the Third State of Consciousness). Music was used as a way to enlighten yourself and bring joy and positivity into your soul. It was a type of meditation that promoted relaxation. The manner in which this was practiced highly resembles the way buddhist meditation techniques are performed. Up until 2015 neurologist Oliver Sacks was researching Hildegard's 12th century belief that music can bring a whole brain connection between the two hemispheres, to heal and calm the body.\n\n\"Ordo Virtutum\" is written in dramatic verse and contains 82 different melodies, which are set more syllabically than Hildegard's liturgical songs. All parts are sung in plainchant except that of the Devil. There is an alternation between solo and chorus parts as well as melismatic versus syllabic lines.\n\nThe main \"acts\" in the play are set in allegorical towers and the musical dimensions are driven by the architectural understanding, for example, the development of processional chants that link the action in one tower to that of the other.\n\nThe final verses of the play move into a mystical mode and describe the crucifixion of Christ, asking the audience to bend their knees so that God may \"stretch out his hand to you\" (\"genua vestra ad patrem vestrum flectite / ut vobis manum suam porrigat,\" pp. 36–37). The final word, \"porrigat\" (\"stretch out\"), is set to thirty-nine notes, it is the longest melisma in the play. It is meant to illustrate the stretch of a divine hand toward humanity.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45218850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45218850", "title": "Oruno Lara", "text": "Oruno Lara\n\nOruno Lara (1879 – 1924) was a Guadeloupean poet, author and historian, not to be confused with his grandson Dr. Oruno D. Lara, also a historian. Head of Pointe-à-Pitre's \"Guadeloupe Littéraire\" journal, he arrived in France in 1914 with hopes of further developing his project of a literary and political journal. He was soon engulfed in the first World War until 1919 and following traumas caused by the inhalation of gases used during the war, he was inspired to become a historian. Upon his return from war, he published a history of Guadeloupe, a text which was used to teach several generations of Guadeloupean school children. In 1919, he founded the monthly \"Le Monde Colonial\" (The Colonial World) which echoed W.E.B. Dubois' and the first Pan-African Congress' denunciations of the racism inherent to European colonialism. In 1923 he wrote the novel \"Question de Couleurs: Blanches et Noirs, Roman de Moeurs\" ( i.e. \"An issue of Colors: Whites and Blacks, a Novel\")\n\nBorn in Guadeloupe, Oruno Lara worked from the age of 11 as an apprentice typographer at the press for the paper \"La Vérité\", which had been founded in 1888. He was then hired as a typographer at \"Courrier de la Guadeloupe\" and at \"La République\" in 1900. He went on to become an editor at \"L'Indépendant de la Pointe-à-Pitre\" (1901) and at the papers \"La Démocratie\", \"La Vérité\", at \"L'émancipation\" and at \"Le Nouvelliste\", founded by his brother Hildevert-Adolphe in 1909. Their brother Augereau founded \"L'Homme Enchaîné\" (aka \"The Chained Man\") and \"L'Action\". \n\nOruno Lara eventually created the journal \"La Guadeloupe Littéraire\", publishing the work of local poets. \n\nLara was the first Guadeloupean historian to break from the dominant historiography of French colonial planters and administrators by looking at the totality of influences on Guadeloupe, beyond just the French colonialist narrative. He was also the first to strive to transmit this history to Guadeloupean children, against great odds. He wrote in the preface to his 1921 book \"La Guadeloupe physique, économique, agricole, commerciale, financière, politique et sociale de la découverte à nos jours (1492-1900)\":\n\n\"It is really the job of one of us to write our own history; and when born of yesterday we seem to have neither past nor official identity, it behooves one of us to erect a more beautiful past... Ignorance of yesterday is a great weakness.\"\n\nHis \"La Guadeloupe de la Découverte à Nos Jours\" was the first history book about Guadeloupe written by a non-white.\n\nDespite emulating the writing style of white creole writers from his native Guadeloupe, Lara is noted as being among the first non-white Guadeloupean authors to assert black or mulatto consciousness and to write on race, racial tension and colorism. \n\nOruno Lara's father Moïse Lara had been a slave until 1843. Moïse's mother Bertilde had been a slave until 1848. Moïse Lara was freed from slavery at the age of 21 in 1843 while he was a cook. Moïse Lara then moved to Pointe-à-Pitre where he worked as a carpenter while collaborating to the creation of the paper \"Le Progrès\" in 1849. That same year he participated in demonstrations against the electoral campaign for the legislative Assembly of the candidate Bissette who was an ally of the French planters of Martinique. Moïse wrote a letter to the \"Progrès\" registering his disapproval.\n\nBorn in 1822, Moïse Lara worked hard to leave his children extensive documentation of events that he witnessed, in addition to his convictions. Moïse married Oruno's mother Amélie Pédurand in 1879. They had four children: Hildevert-Adolphe (1876), Oruno (1879), Augereau and Ferlande. Amélie had been born in 1848 to a mulatto woman from Grands Fonds in Sainte-Anne, Guadeloupe who died of cholera in 1865. She often told stories from the times of her husband Moïse's demonstrations and political agitation against slavery and the colonial order. Oruno had another brother, Moïse's first son Sully Lara who wrote novels and essays.\n\nThis legacy likely motivated Oruno Lara's publication of his book on Guadeloupean history in 1921 which he published with the help of his wife—teacher and poet Agathe Réache—against great odds: unemployment, archives far away in Europe, war and disease.\n\nOruno Lara's father Moïse adopted the name Lara after he was emancipated from slavery. Oruno D. Lara has written that the name was likely inspired by the fact that Moïse's ancestors were from Venezuela.\n\nOruno Lara's grandson Oruno D. Lara, a prolific historian, was born after his death. \nAnother grandson Christian Lara, is a noted filmmaker.\n\nOruna Lara's great-grandson is Kernan Heinz, named after a well-known Spanish historian called Hernan Cortes.\n\n"}
{"id": "20957010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20957010", "title": "Pandya coinage", "text": "Pandya coinage\n\nThe earliest coins of the Pandyan Kingdom were copper squares and were struck with a die. The coins were with five distinct images on one side, often an image of an elephant on that side and a stylised fish on the other, seen typically in the coins found around Korkai, their ancient capital and in Northern Lanka. These rectangular coins of the early Pandyans also featured the Nandi bull and contain Chakrams. The ”Chakram” consists of two lines forming an acute angle, the apex being uppermost ; with are two crossed lines parallel to the sides of the angle which they join. All four lines end at the bottom of the symbol on the same level. This symbol but with the outer lines somewhat shorter than the inner is used by certain Tamils in the Anuradhapura District as a brand-mark for cattle ; a variant with the outer lines continued beyond the apex in the form of a loop or of a pair of pincers occurs in the Northern Province and represents a makara. The symbol or brandmark on the coin being a conventional fish, the well-known Pandyans badge.\n\nUpon the revival of the Kingdom in the 7th-10th centuries, the predominant image was one or two fish, and the Pandyan bull. Sometimes they were with other images like a \"Chola standing figure\" or the \"Chalukyan boar.\" The inscription on the silver and gold coins is in Sanskrit, and most of their copper coins have Tamil legends.\nThe Pandyan's coins figure prominently on the coins used in northern Sri Lanka during the early period, and large hoards of their coins have been found in Kandarodai and Anuradhapura from the Sangam period.\n"}
{"id": "24516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24516", "title": "Polybius", "text": "Polybius\n\nPolybius (; , \"Polýbios\";  –  BC) was a Greek historian of the Hellenistic period noted for his work which covered the period of 264–146 BC in detail. The work describes the rise of the Roman Republic to the status of dominance in the ancient Mediterranean world and includes his eyewitness account of the Sack of Carthage in 146 BC. \n\nPolybius is important for his analysis of the mixed constitution or the separation of powers in government, which was influential on Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\" and the framers of the United States Constitution.\n\nPolybius was born around 200 BC in Megalopolis, Arcadia, when it was an active member of the Achaean League. His father, Lycortas, was a prominent, land-owning politician and member of the governing class who became \"strategos\" (commanding general) of the Achaean League. Consequently, Polybius was able to observe first hand the political and military affairs of Megalopolis. He developed an interest in horse riding and hunting, diversions that later commended him to his Roman captors. \n\nIn 182 BC, he was given quite an honor when he was chosen to carry the funeral urn of Philopoemen, one of the most eminent Achaean politicians of his generation. In either 169 BC or 170 BC, Polybius was elected hipparchus (cavalry officer), an event which often presaged election to the annual \"strategia\" (chief generalship). His early political career was devoted largely towards maintaining the independence of Megalopolis.\n\nPolybius’ father, Lycortas, was a prominent advocate of neutrality during the Roman war against Perseus of Macedon. Lycortas attracted the suspicion of the Romans, and Polybius subsequently was one of the 1,000 Achaean nobles who were transported to Rome as hostages in 167 BC, and was detained there for 17 years. In Rome, by virtue of his high culture, Polybius was admitted to the most distinguished houses, in particular to that of Lucius Aemilius Paullus Macedonicus, the conqueror in the Third Macedonian War, who entrusted Polybius with the education of his sons, Fabius and Scipio Aemilianus (who had been adopted by the eldest son of Scipio Africanus). Polybius remained on cordial terms with his former pupil Scipio Aemilianus and was among the members of the Scipionic Circle. \n\nWhen Scipio defeated the Carthaginians in the Third Punic War, Polybius remained his counsellor. The Achaean hostages were released in 150 BC, and Polybius was granted leave to return home, but the next year he went on campaign with Scipio Aemilianus to Africa, and was present at the Sack of Carthage in 146, which he later described. Following the destruction of Carthage, Polybius likely journeyed along the Atlantic coast of Africa, as well as Spain.\n\nAfter the destruction of Corinth in the same year, Polybius returned to Greece, making use of his Roman connections to lighten the conditions there. Polybius was charged with the difficult task of organizing the new form of government in the Greek cities, and in this office he gained great recognition.\n\nIn the succeeding years, Polybius resided in Rome, completing his historical work while occasionally undertaking long journeys through the Mediterranean countries in the furtherance of his history, in particular with the aim of obtaining firsthand knowledge of historical sites. He apparently interviewed veterans to clarify details of the events he was recording and was similarly given access to archival material. Little is known of Polybius' later life; he most likely accompanied Scipio to Spain, acting as his military advisor during the Numantine War. \n\nHe later wrote about this war in a lost monograph. Polybius probably returned to Greece later in his life, as evidenced by the many existent inscriptions and statues of him there. The last event mentioned in his \"Histories\" seems to be the construction of the Via Domitia in southern France in 118 BC, which suggests the writings of Pseudo-Lucian may have some grounding in fact when they state, \"[Polybius] fell from his horse while riding up from the country, fell ill as a result and died at the age of eighty-two\".\n\nPolybius’ \"Histories\" cover the period from 264 BC to 146 BC. Its main focus is the period from 220 BC to 167 BC, describing Rome's efforts in subduing its arch-enemy, Carthage, and thereby becoming the dominant Mediterranean force. Books I through V of \"The Histories\" are the introduction for the years during his lifetime, describing the politics in leading Mediterranean states, including ancient Greece and Egypt, and culminating in their ultimate \"συμπλοκή\" or interconnectedness. In Book VI, Polybius describes the political, military, and moral institutions that allowed the Romans to succeed. He describes the First and Second Punic Wars. Polybius concludes the Romans are the pre-eminent power because they have customs and institutions which promote a deep desire for noble acts, a love of virtue, piety towards parents and elders, and a fear of the gods (\"deisidaimonia\"). \n\nHe also chronicled the conflicts between Hannibal and Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus such as the Battle of Ticinus, the Battle of the Trebia, the Siege of Saguntum, the Battle of Lilybaeum, and the Battle of Rhone Crossing. In Book XII, Polybius discusses the worth of Timaeus’ account of the same period of history. He asserts Timaeus' point of view is inaccurate, invalid, and biased in favor of Rome. Therefore, Polybius's \"Histories\" is also useful in analyzing the different Hellenistic versions of history and of use as a credible illustration of actual events during the Hellenistic period.\n\nIn the seventh volume of his \"Histories\", Polybius defines the historian's job as the analysis of documentation, the review of relevant geographical information, and political experience. Polybius held that historians should only chronicle events whose participants the historian was able to interview, and was among the first to champion the notion of factual integrity in historical writing. In Polybius' time, the profession of a historian required political experience (which aided in differentiating between fact and fiction) and familiarity with the geography surrounding one's subject matter to supply an accurate version of events. \n\nPolybius himself exemplified these principles as he was well travelled and possessed political and military experience. He did not neglect written sources that proved essential material for his histories of the period from 264 BC to 220 BC. When addressing events after 220 BC, he examined the writings of Greek and Roman historians to acquire credible sources of information, but rarely did he name those sources.\n\nPolybius wrote several works, the majority of which are lost. His earliest work was a biography of the Greek statesman Philopoemen; this work was later used as a source by Plutarch when composing his \"Parallel Lives\", however the original Polybian text is lost. In addition, Polybius wrote an extensive treatise entitled \"Tactics\", which may have detailed Roman and Greek military tactics. Small parts of this work may survive in his major \"Histories\", but the work itself is lost, as well. Another missing work was a historical monograph on the events of the Numantine War. The largest Polybian work was, of course, his \"Histories\", of which only the first five books survive entirely intact, along with a large portion of the sixth book and fragments of the rest. Along with Cato the Elder (234–149 BC), he can be considered one of the founding fathers of Roman historiography.\n\nLivy made reference to and uses Polybius' \"Histories\" as source material in his own narrative. Polybius was among the first historians to attempt to present history as a sequence of causes and effects, based upon a careful examination and criticism of tradition. He narrated his history based upon first-hand knowledge. \"The Histories\" capture the varied elements of the story of human behavior: nationalism, xenophobia, duplicitous politics, war, brutality, loyalty, valour, intelligence, reason, and resourcefulness.\n\nAside from the narrative of the historical events, Polybius also included three books of digressions. Book 34 was entirely devoted to questions of geography and included some trenchant criticisms of Eratosthenes, whom he accused of passing on popular preconceptions or \"laodogmatika\". Book 12 was a disquisition on the writing of history, citing extensive passages of lost historians, such as Callisthenes and Theopompus. Most influential was Book 6, which describes Roman political, military, and moral institutions, which he considered key to Rome's success; it presented Rome as having a mixed constitution in which monarchical, aristocratic, and popular elements existed in stable equilibrium. This enabled Rome to escape, for the time being, the cycle of eternal revolutions (\"anacyclosis\"). While Polybius was not the first to advance this view, his account provides the most cogent illustration of the ideal for later political theorists.\n\nA key theme of \"The Histories\" is the good statesman as virtuous and composed. The character of the Polybian statesman is exemplified in that of Philip II. His beliefs about Philip's character led Polybius to reject historian Theopompus' description of Philip's private, drunken debauchery. For Polybius, it was inconceivable that such an able and effective statesman could have had an immoral and unrestrained private life as described by Theopompus.\nIn recounting the Roman Republic, Polybius stated that \"the Senate stands in awe of the multitude, and cannot neglect the feelings of the people\".\n\nOther important themes running through \"The Histories\" are the role of Fortune in the affairs of nations, his insistence that history should be demonstratory, or \"apodeiktike\", providing lessons for statesmen, and that historians should be \"men of action\" (\"pragmatikoi\").\n\nPolybius is considered by some to be the successor of Thucydides in terms of objectivity and critical reasoning, and the forefather of scholarly, painstaking historical research in the modern scientific sense. According to this view, his work sets forth the course of history's occurrences with clearness, penetration, sound judgment, and, among the circumstances affecting the outcomes, he lays especial emphasis on geographical conditions. Modern historians are especially impressed with the manner in which Polybius used his sources, particularly documentary evidence as well as his citation and quotation of sources. Furthermore, there is some admiration of Polybius's meditation on the nature of historiography in Book 12. His work belongs, therefore, amongst the greatest productions of ancient historical writing. The writer of the \"Oxford Companion to Classical Literature\" (1937) praises him for his \"earnest devotion to truth\" and his systematic pursuit of causation.\n\nIt has long been acknowledged that Polybius's writings are prone to a certain hagiographic tone when writing of his friends, such as Scipio, and subject to a vindictive tone when detailing the exploits of his enemies, such as Callicrates, the Achaean statesman responsible for his Roman exile.\n\nAs a hostage in Rome, then as client to the Scipios, and after 146 BC, a collaborator with Roman rule, Polybius was probably in no position to freely express any negative opinions of Rome. Peter Green advises that Polybius was chronicling Roman history for a Greek audience, to justify what he believed to be the inevitability of Roman rule. Nonetheless, Green considers Polybius's \"Histories\" the best source for the era they cover. For Ronald Mellor, Polybius was a loyal partisan of Scipio, intent on vilifying his patron's opponents. Adrian Goldsworthy, while using Polybius as a source for Scipio's generalship, notes Polybius' underlying and overt bias in Scipio's favour. H. Ormerod considers that Polybius cannot be regarded as an 'altogether unprejudiced witness' in relation to his \"betes noires\"; the Aetolians, the Carthaginians, and the Cretans. Other historians perceive considerable negative bias in Polybius' account of Crete; on the other hand, Hansen notes that the same work, along with passages from Strabo and Scylax, proved a reliable guide in the eventual rediscovery of the lost city of Kydonia.\n\nPolybius was responsible for a useful tool in telegraphy that allowed letters to be easily signaled using a numerical system (mentioned in Hist. X.45.6 ff.). This idea also lends itself to cryptographic manipulation and steganography.\n\nThis was known as the \"Polybius square\", where the letters of the alphabet were arranged left to right, top to bottom in a 5 x 5 square, (when used with the modern 26 letter alphabet, the letters \"I\" and \"J\" are combined). Five numbers were then aligned on the outside top of the square, and five numbers on the left side of the square vertically. Usually these numbers were arranged 1 through 5. By cross-referencing the two numbers along the grid of the square, a letter could be deduced.\n\nIn \"The Histories\", he specifies how this cypher could be used in fire signals, where long-range messages could be sent by means of torches raised and lowered to signify the column and row of each letter. This was a great leap forward from previous fire signaling, which could send prearranged codes only (such as, 'if we light the fire, it means that the enemy has arrived').\n\nOther writings of scientific interest include detailed discussions of the machines Archimedes created for the defense of Syracuse against the Romans, where he praises the 'old man' and his engineering in the highest terms, and an analysis of the usefulness of astronomy to generals (both in the \"Histories\").\n\nPolybius was considered a poor stylist by Dionysius of Halicarnassus, writing of Polybius' history that \"no one has the endurance to reach [its] end\". Nevertheless, clearly he was widely read by Romans and Greeks alike. He is quoted extensively by Strabo writing in the 1st century BC and Athenaeus in the 3rd century AD. \n\nHis emphasis on explaining causes of events, rather than just recounting events, influenced the historian Sempronius Asellio. Polybius is mentioned by Cicero and mined for information by Diodorus, Livy, Plutarch and Arrian. Much of the text that survives today from the later books of \"The Histories\" was preserved in Byzantine anthologies.\nHis works reappeared in the West first in Renaissance Florence. Polybius gained a following in Italy, and although poor Latin translations hampered proper scholarship on his works, they contributed to the city's historical and political discourse. Niccolò Machiavelli in his \"Discourses on Livy\" evinces familiarity with Polybius. Vernacular translations in French, German, Italian and English first appeared during the 16th century. Consequently, in the late 16th century, Polybius's works found a greater reading audience among the learned public. Study of the correspondence of such men as Isaac Casaubon, Jacques Auguste de Thou, William Camden, and Paolo Sarpi reveals a growing interest in Polybius' works and thought during the period. Despite the existence of both printed editions in the vernacular and increased scholarly interest, however, Polybius remained an \"historian's historian\", not much read by the public at large. \n\nPrintings of his work in the vernacular remained few in number — seven in French, five in English, and five in Italian.\nPolybius' political analysis has influenced republican thinkers from Cicero to Charles de Montesquieu to the Founding Fathers of the United States. John Adams, for example, considered him one of the most important teachers of constitutional theory. Since the Age of Enlightenment, Polybius has in general held appeal to those interested in Hellenistic Greece and early Republican Rome, while his political and military writings have lost influence in academia. More recently, thorough work on the Greek text of Polybius, and his historical technique, has increased the academic understanding and appreciation of him as a historian.\n\nAccording to Edward Tufte, he was also a major source for Charles Joseph Minard's figurative map of Hannibal's overland journey into Italy during the Second Punic War.\n\nIn his \"Meditations On Hunting\", Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset calls Polybius \"one of the few great minds that the turbid human species has managed to produce\", and says the damage to the \"Histories\" is \"without question one of the gravest losses that we have suffered in our Greco-Roman heritage\".\n\nThe Italian version of his name, Polibio, was used as a male first name - for example, the composer Polibio Fumagalli - though it never became very common.\n\nThe University of Pennsylvania has an intellectual society, the Polybian Society, which is named in his honor and serves as a non-partisan forum for discussing societal issues and policy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2359894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2359894", "title": "Providentialism", "text": "Providentialism\n\nIn Christianity, providentialism is the belief that all events on Earth are controlled by God.\n\nProvidentialism was sometimes viewed by its adherents as differing between national providence and personal providence. Some English and American Christians came to view personal providentialism as backward and superstitious, while continuing to believe in national providentialism. National providentialism was described by the British historian Nicholas Guyatt as encompassing three broader beliefs: God judged nations on the virtues of its leaders, there is a special role for certain nations, and finally that God worked out a master plan through the role of various nations.\nProvidentialism was frequently featured in discussions of European political and intellectual elites seeking to justify imperialism in the 19th century, on the grounds that the suffering caused by European conquest was justified under the grounds of furthering God's plan and spreading Christianity and civilization to distant nations. In the words of historians, it was an \"interpretive framework\" of occurring natural, political and social events at a time when religious and secular were not clearly divided.\n\nProvidentialism may be understood as the acceptance of the belief that all that happens in the world is for the greater good, since, \"God created the social order and appointed each individual in his place within it.\"\n\nProvidentialism is also a term sometimes used to refer to the general philosophy of Quiverfull adherents. Quiverfull is a small movement among conservative evangelical Christians. Advocates oppose the general acceptance among Protestant Christians of deliberately limiting family size through use of birth control. Advocates believe God controls via providence how many children are conceived and born, pointing to Bible verses that describe God acting to \"open and close the womb\". Continual \"openness to children\", to conception during routine sexual intercourse, irrespective of timing of the month during the ovulation cycle, is considered by Quiverfull adherents as part of their Christian calling in submission to the lordship of Christ.\n"}
{"id": "29163913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29163913", "title": "Psychic archaeology", "text": "Psychic archaeology\n\nPsychic archaeology is a loose collection of practices involving the application of paranormal phenomena to problems in archaeology. It is not considered part of mainstream archaeology, or taught in academic institutions. It is difficult to test scientifically, since archaeological sites are relatively abundant, and all of its verified predictions could have been made via educated guesses.\n\nPractitioners of psychic archaeology utilize a variety of methods of divination ranging from pseudoscientific methods such as dowsing and channeling. Some psychic archaeologists engage in fieldwork while others, such as Edgar Cayce (who claims to have had access to ancient Akashic records), exclusively engage in remote viewing. Frederick Bligh Bond's research at Glastonbury Abbey is one of the first documented examples of psychic archaeology and remains a principal case in many discussions of psychic archaeology.\n\nPsychic archaeology is the use of extrasensory perception to locate sites for archaeological digs, or describe context of artifacts. Psychic archaeology is alluring for several reasons, respective to the type of psychic archaeology employed. For instance, surveying techniques such as dowsing are less costly in terms of time and equipment than conventional noninvasive surveying techniques such as Ground Penetrating Radar or magnetometery surveys. Techniques for locating sites and test pits such as automatic writing and various scrying techniques are easy to perform. Psychic archaeologists claim that many of their techniques address lives of the past directly. Whereas accepted archaeologists make inferences about lives of the past based on material culture, some psychic archaeologists say they have visions of non-material aspects of the lives they study.\n\nThere are several common methods employed by practitioners of psychic archaeologists including:\n\nDowsing in psychic archaeology can take on many forms. One of the better publicized methods and the subject of psychic archaeologist Karen Hunt’s 1981 masters thesis at Indiana University involves dowsing for \"Electromagnetic Photo-Fields\" (EMPF) using two L-shaped [Ferrous] coat hangers bent about 17.8 cm from the end as electromagnetic photo sensors. Hunt stated that the electromagnetic photo sensors detect EMPF similar to a proton magnetometer detecting magnetic fields. Crossed dowsing rods indicated the crossing of an EMPF, which are said to be three-dimensional patterns generated by man-made objects left in place for at least six-months.\nThere are other methods of dowsing employed in psychic archaeology with less inherent scientism than EMPF. Often conventional dowsers will offer their services to archaeologist with varying explanation for their methods.\nStraddling the border of dowsing and channeling is a technique known as map dowsing, in which a medium or psychic dangles a pendulum over a map of the area of a potential dig to divine ideal locations for test pits or excavation.\n\nAn example of psychometry in psychic archaeology occurred at 17:45, 22 October 1941 when Professor Stanisław Poniatowski of the University of Warsaw handed Polish psychic Stefan Ossowiecki a projectile point from the Magdalenian culture. After holding the artifact Ossowiecki stated that it was a spear point from France or Belgium, belonging to round house dwelling people with brownish skin, black hair, short stature, large hands, feet and hips wearing skins. He describes a funeral pyre, burial, and two domesticated dogs. Jeffrey Goodman, author and psychic archaeologist, considers Ossowiecki’s psychometry validated for the following reasons: large hipped women are observed in Magdalenian Venus figurines, bone needles associated with Magdalenian culture may have been used to sew skin clothing, and the bearded man on the funeral pyre “may have been one of the bearded Magdalenians who are found represented in Magdalenian cave art.”\n\n\nAugustus Le Plongeon, an eccentric explorer who concentrated on Maya sites in the northern Yucatan Peninsula, was an early practitioner of psychic archaeology. In 1877, Juan Péon Contreras, director of the Museo Yucateco in Mérida, noted that Le Plongeon's discoveries of sculpture at Chichén Itzá resulted from the application of \"abstruse archaeological reasoning and... meditation.\". R. Tripp Evans refers to this as \"psychic archaeology,\" noting that Le Plongeon's wife Alice Dixon Le Plongeon had an avid interest in mesmerism, séance, and the occult. Helena Blavatsky, a co-founder of the Theosophical Society, regarded the work of the Le Plongeons as proving the validity of \"metaphysical archaeology.\". However, professional archaeologists regard Le Plongeon as an obvious crank.\n\nGlastonbury Abbey was a Catholic religious complex located at Glastonbury, UK until 1539, when it was destroyed by edict of King Henry VIII. According to Frederick Bligh Bond the Abbey was founded in 166 CE, although this founding date is disputed by historians; the commonly accepted date is in the 7th Century when, according to the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" King Ine of Wessex established a minster at Glastonbury. On November 17, 1907 F. Bligh Bond had his friend Captain John Bartlett (Given the Pseudonym John Alleyne in \"The Gate of Remembrance \") engage in communicating with spirits via Automatic writing for the purpose of learning about Glastonbury Abbey’s past. Captain Bartlett's communication with spirits produced two sketches of the abbey’s layout signed by \"Gulielmus Monachus.\" The layouts showed a chapel to the east of the abbey that was unknown to F. Bligh Bond, he asked that Captain Bartlett’s source provide more information about this building. Accordingly, Captain Bartlett wrote that the chapel had been erected by Abbot Beere, completed by Abbot Whiting and named in honor of King Edgar.\n\nF. Bligh Bond began excavation at Glastonbury in the summer of 1909. While excavating he demonstrated the accuracy of Captain Bartlett’s sketches discovering Edgar Chapel in the location indicated by Captain Bartlett.\n\nBond didn't reveal that he was using psychic powers until 1917, when he had already presented his results. The Church of England officials were so embarrassed that they fired him.\n\nMainstream archeologists are far from nonplussed about the discovery, reminding people that F. Bligh Bond was an expert in medieval church architecture, that most of the site had already been dug out, and that the location of the chapel could be easily guessed from the existing data. Archaeologist Stephen Williams said that \"Culture is a patterned behavior, and medieval cathedrals are some of the most patterned pieces of construction in our culture... All he had to do was turn to almost any nearby structure, such as Salisbury Cathedral, less than fifty miles to the east, and see its Trinity Chapel behind the main altar and guess that Glastonbury would have one too.\n\nPoint Cook Australia was the location of a psychic archaeological survey by Karen A. B. Hunt M.A. in 1981. Hunt employed dowsing rods to detect \"Electromagnetic Photo-Fields\" (EMPF). Hunt mapped the locations of 129 buildings or cultural points including the house, outbuildings, a windmill, a tank stand, the fences and gates of the homestead. While the location of the windmill and tank stand match established facts, skeptic Mark Plummer considers Hunt’s survey dubious for several reasons, including architectural style, which he and a team of architects find more indicative of 1870-1900 American architecture than Australian Colonial architecture. \n\n\nAdvocates of psychic archaeology believe that at best it possesses the power to answer questions about the lives in the past not answerable using the archaeological record, and also to locating prime archaeological sites. They believe that, at worst, psychic archaeologists can locate and excavate important sites that may not be excavated without the motivation of psychic guidance. Skeptics, on the other hand, usually question the existence of psychic abilities, ascribing the occasional apparent successes of psychic archaeology to fallacious thinking on the part of practitioners and cite phenomena such as coincidence, confirmation bias, cherry picking or outright trickery. Skeptics compare psychic archaeologists to psychic detectives.\n\nIt is difficult to test psychic archaeology empirically, since archaeological discoveries are relatively abundant; anyone can predict the location of a site, using only a bit of archaeological knowledge and common sense. The same applies for finding objects inside an already identified site. Also, some sites, like the Alexandria harbor, are so rich in objects that one can dig in any random place and find at least one object. Predictions about the lifestyle of ancient civilizations can't be verified due to the lack of written records.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24300721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24300721", "title": "Qala-i-Jangi", "text": "Qala-i-Jangi\n\nQala-i-Jangi (Dari/Pashto: ) is a 19th-century fortress located near Mazar-i-Sharif in northern Afghanistan. It is known for being the site of a bloody 2001 Taliban uprising named the Battle of Qala-i-Jangi, in which at least 470 people were killed including CIA agent Johnny \"Mike\" Spann. It served as Northern Alliance General Abdul Rashid Dostum's military garrison during the opening stages of the War in Afghanistan (2001–14).\n\nThe Afghans built the fort in 1889 for defense against potentially invading British after the Second Anglo-Afghan War. It took 18,000 workers 12 years to complete it.\n\nThe Taliban occupied the fort for most of the time from 1994 to 2001. Abdul Rashid Dostum, of the Northern Alliance held the fort briefly in 1997, with 20,000 militia.\n\nIn 2001, the fort was long, wide. It was constructed out of wooden beams, mud and straw. At each corner a mud tower rose high and across. Rainfall of annually enabled the structure to avoid liquification.\n\nIt was a walled city, divided evenly into northern and southern courtyards by an wall.\n\nIt contained a gold-domed mosque, a square \"Pink House,\" erected in the 1980s by the occupying Soviet Union, as a medical facility.\n\n"}
{"id": "43252937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43252937", "title": "Ramón Marrero Aristy", "text": "Ramón Marrero Aristy\n\nRamón Marrero Aristy Beltré (14 June 1912 – 17 July 1959) was a Dominican author, journalist and politician and historian. He is renowned as a writer of realist novels, especially those set around sugar-cane which highlighted the abuse to which sugar industry workers subject.\n\nRamón Marrero Aristy Beltré was born in the town of San Rafael del Yuma, La Altagracia Province, Dominican Republic to Juan Bautista Aristy Marrero and Olivia Beltré on the 14 June 1912. His family was quite affluent and so he spent his early years living a comfortable life in the countryside; however, due to the American Occupation of the Dominican Republic from 1916-1924 he went into exile with his parents. His years in exile were spent in: Colombia, Venezuela and the Dutch Antilles. Finally in 1922 he returned along with his parents to the Dominican Republic.\n\nUpon their return the Aristy family were unable to once again establish themselves in their lands in the east of the country; instead they settled in the south western part of the country. Up till the year 1929 the Aristy family was lived in their south western holdings and went through rough times attempting to rebuild their destroyed fortune. Nevertheless, Ramón Marrero Aristy was able to find time for his education.\n\nIn 1928, at age 16 Marrero Aristy was a correspondent for two Dominican newspapers: 'El Diario' (Santiago de los Caballeros and 'El Nuevo Diario' (Santo Domingo) in addition to working at a laundry.\n\nThe remaining part of his adolescence was spent in the Eastern town of La Romana where he continued his education and worked at the Central Romana Corporation's food warehouse. While working at the warehouse he was a first-hand witness to the abuses the predominantly Haitian sugar labourers were subjected to.\n\nHe left the Central Romana's warehouse and moved to the capital, Santo Domingo where he graduated from secondary school and entered the University of Santo Domingo (now Autonomous University of Santo Domingo) pursuing a degree in Journalism. He left the university without graduating but became a frequent writer in nationwide newspapers such as: Listín Diario, El Caribe and La Nación.\n\nThree years after moving to Santo Domingo, in 1938 Marrero Aristy published his first book, Balsié. One year later, he published the novel Over in which he detailed what he had witnessed while working at the Central Romana warehouse, especially how the sugar labourers were forced to over-pay for their food products (hence the title.)\n"}
{"id": "675167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675167", "title": "Saadat Hasan Manto", "text": "Saadat Hasan Manto\n\nSaadat Hasan Manto (; , ; 11 May 1912 – 18 January 1955) was a Pakistani writer, playwright and author born in Ludhiana, British India. Writing mainly in Urdu language, he produced 22 collections of short stories, a novel, five series of radio plays, three collections of essays, two collections of personal sketches. His best short stories are held in high esteem by writers and critics. Manto was known to write about the hard truths of society that no one dared to talk about. He is best known for his stories about the partition of India immediately following independence in 1947.\n\nManto was tried for obscenity six times; thrice before 1947 in British India, and thrice after independence in 1947 in Pakistan, but never convicted. He is acknowledged as one of the finest 20th century Urdu writers and is the subject of a biographical film, \"Manto\", directed by Sarmad Khoosat.\n\nSaadat Hassan Manto was born in Paproudi village of Samrala, in the Ludhiana district of the Punjab in a Muslim family of barristers on 11 May 1912. His father was a judge of a local court. He was ethnically a Kashmiri and proud of his Kashmiri roots. In a letter to Pandit Nehru he suggested that being 'beautiful' was the second meaning of being 'Kashmiri'.\n\nThe big turning point in his life came in 1933, at age 21, when he met Abdul Bari Alig, a scholar and polemic writer, in Amritsar. Abdul Bari Alig encouraged him to find his true talents and read Russian and French authors.\n\nWithin a matter of month Manto produced an Urdu translation of Victor Hugo's \"The Last Day of a Condemned Man\", which was published by Urdu Book Stall, Lahore as Sarguzasht-e-Aseer (A Prisoner's Story). Soon afterwards he joined the editorial staff of Masawat, a daily published from Ludhiana\n\nThis heightened enthusiasm pushed Manto to pursue graduation at Aligarh Muslim University , which he joined in February 1934, and soon got associated with Indian Progressive Writers' Association (IPWA). It was here that he met writer Ali Sardar Jafri and found a new spurt in his writing. His second story, \"Inqlaab Pasand\", was published in Aligarh magazine in March 1935.\n\nSaadat Hasan Manto had accepted the job of writing for Urdu Service of All India Radio in 1941. This proved to be his most productive period as in the next eighteen months he published over four collections of radio plays, Aao (Come), Manto ke Drame (Manto's Dramas), Janaze (Funerals) and Teen Auraten (Three women). He continued to write short stories and his next short story collection Dhuan (Smoke) was soon out followed by Manto ke Afsane and his first collection of topical essays, Manto ke Mazamin. This period culminated with the publication of his mixed collection Afsane aur Dramey in 1943. Meanwhile, due to a quarrel with the director of the All India Radio, poet N. M. Rashid, he left his job and returned to Bombay in July 1942 and again started working with film industry. He entered his best phase in screenwriting giving films like Aatth Din, Shikari, Chal Chal Re Naujawan and Mirza Ghalib, which was finally released in 1954. Some of his short stories also came from this phase including Kaali Shalwar (1941), Dhuan (1941) and Bu (1945), which was published in Qaumi Jang (Bombay) in February 1945. Another highlight of his second phase in Bombay was the publication of a collection of his stories, Chugad, which also included the story 'Babu Gopinath'. He stayed in Bombay until he moved to Pakistan in January 1948 after the partition of India in 1947.\n\nManto and his family were among the millions of Muslims who left present-day India for the Muslim-majority nation of Pakistan\n\nWhen Manto arrived in Lahore from Bombay, he lived near and associated with several prominent intellectuals including Faiz Ahmad Faiz, Nasir Kazmi, Ahmad Rahi and Ahmad Nadeem Qasmi. They all used to gather at Lahore's iconic Pak Tea House, witness to some of the most fiery literary debates and passionate political arguments back in 1948–49. Pak Tea House holds a special place in the memories of those who know about Lahore's vibrant literary and cultural past. \"There was absolutely no external influence and people would share their opinions on any subject without fear even during the military dictators' regimes.\"\n\nHe died on 18 January 1955, in an apartment located off Hall Road in Lahore. His death was attributed to the effects of alcoholism. He was survived by his wife Safia and daughters Nighat, Nuzhat and Nusrat.\n\nOn 18 January 2005, the fiftieth anniversary of his death, Manto was commemorated on a Pakistani postage stamp.\n\nOn 14 August 2012 which is Pakistan's Independence Day, Saadat Hasan Manto was posthumously awarded the Nishan-e-Imtiaz award (Distinguished Service to Pakistan Award) by the Government of Pakistan.\n\nManto was a writer whose life story became a subject of intense discussion and introspection. During the last two decades many stage productions were done to present his character in conflict with the harsh socio-economic realities of post partition era. Danish Iqbal's stage Play \"Ek Kutte Ki Kahani\" presented Manto in a new perspective on occasion of his birth centenary.\n\nIn 2015, Pakistani actor and director Sarmad Khoosat made and released a movie, \"Manto\", based on the life of Manto. \n\nIn 2018, the British Broadcasting Corporation named the work Toba Tek Singh among the 100 stories that shaped the world, alongside works by authors like Homer and Virginia Woolf. \n\nThe 2018 film Manto, made by Nandita Das and starring Nawazuddin Siddiqui, is a Bollywood film based on the life of Manto.\n\nManto chronicled the chaos that prevailed, during and after the Partition of India in 1947. He started his literary career translating the works of Victor Hugo, Oscar Wilde and Russian writers such as Chekhov and Gorky. His first story was \"Tamasha\", based on the Jallianwala Bagh massacre at Amritsar. Though his earlier works, influenced by the progressive writers of his times, showed a marked leftist and socialist leanings, his later work progressively became stark in portraying the darkness of the human psyche, as humanist values progressively declined around the Partition. His final works, which grew from the social climate and his own financial struggles, reflected an innate sense of human impotency towards darkness and contained a satirism that verged on dark comedy, as seen in his final work, Toba Tek Singh. It not only showed the influence of his own demons, but also that of the collective madness that he saw in the ensuing decade of his life. To add to it, his numerous court cases and societal rebukes deepened his cynical view of society, from which he felt isolated.\nNo part of human existence remained untouched or taboo for him, he sincerely brought out stories of prostitutes and pimps alike, just as he highlighted the subversive sexual slavery of the women of his times. To many contemporary women writers, his language portrayed reality and provided them with the dignity they long deserved. He is still known for his scathing insight into human behaviour as well as revelation of the macabre animalistic nature of the enraged people, that stands out amidst the brevity of his prose.\n\nAt least one commentator compares Saadat Hasan Manto to D. H. Lawrence, partly because he wrote about taboos of Indo-Pakistani Society. His concerns on the socio-political issues, from local to global are revealed in his series, Letters to Uncle Sam, and those to Pandit Nehru. On his writing he often commented, \"If you find my stories dirty, the society you are living in is dirty. With my stories, I only expose the truth\".\n\nManto faced trial for obscenity in his writings in both India and Pakistan,including three times in India before 1947 (‘Dhuan,’ ‘Bu,’ and ‘Kali Shalwar’) and three times in Pakistan after 1947 (‘KholDo,’ ‘Thanda Gosht,’ and ‘Upar Neeche Darmiyaan’) under section 292 of the \"Indian Penal Code \"and the \"Pakistan Penal Code \"in Pakistan’s early years. He was fined only in one case. Regarding the charges of obscenity he opined \"I am not a pornographer but a story writer,\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "610101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610101", "title": "Scipione Ammirato", "text": "Scipione Ammirato\n\nScipione Ammirato (October 7, 1531January 11, 1601) was an Italian historian.\n\nAmmirato was born at Lecce, in the Kingdom of Naples. His father, intending him for the profession of law, sent him to study at Naples, but his own decided preference for literature prevented him from fulfilling his father's wishes. Entering the church, he resided for a time at Venice, and afterwards engaged in the service of Pope Pius IV.\n\nIn 1569 he went to Florence, where he was fortunate in securing the patronage and support of Duke Cosimo I, who gave him a residence at the Medici Palace and the Villa Topaia on the understanding that he should write his \"Istorie Florentine\", the work by which he is best known. In 1595 he was made a canon of the cathedral of Florence.\n\nAmong the other works of Ammirato, some of which were first published after his death, may be mentioned discourses on Tacitus and genealogies of the families of Naples and Florence.\n\n"}
{"id": "55485283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55485283", "title": "Seija-Riitta Laakso", "text": "Seija-Riitta Laakso\n\nSeija-Riitta Laakso is a Finnish writer and philatelist, and since July 2017 the editor of \"The London Philatelist\", the journal of the \"Royal Philatelic Society London\". She is also the editor of \"The Posthorn\", the journal of the Scandinavian Collectors Club.\n\nLaakso attended the Sanoma School of Journalism and has an eMBA from the Helsingin kauppakorkeakoulu (Helsinki School of Economics), as well as a PhD from the University of Helsinki (2006) on the subject of \"Across the Oceans. Development of Overseas Business Information Transmission 1815-1875\" which was published in book form in 2007 and in a Japanese edition in 2014. The book studied the speed at which information was transmitted in the nineteenth century using the example of business correspondence which travelled internationally by sea.\n\nLaakso, originally a historian, trained as a journalist and worked in Finnish daily newspapers Helsingin Sanomat, Uusi Suomi and Kauppalehti. She was Director in the Centre for Finnish Business and Policy Studies (Elinkeinoelämän Valtuuskunta, EVA) and Senior vice president / Vice president, Corporate communications at Valmet Oyj, Silja Line Oyj and Ahlstrom Oyj, February 1991 to May 2002. In 2003-2004 she lived in Liverpool, UK, for her doctoral studies. She has written and published several books.\n\nLaakso was Secretary general of the Philatelic Federation of Finland from 2005 to 2013. Since July 2017, she has been the editor of \"The London Philatelist\", the journal of the \"Royal Philatelic Society London\". She is also the editor of \"The Posthorn\", the journal of the Scandinavian Collectors Club. As an exhibitor, she has received 30 gold or large gold medals in philatelic exhibitions by the end of 2017.\n\nPublications in Finnish include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31336385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31336385", "title": "Sorelianism", "text": "Sorelianism\n\nSorelianism is advocacy for or support of the ideology and thinking of French revolutionary syndicalist Georges Sorel. Sorelians oppose bourgeois democracy, the developments of the 18th century, the secular spirit, and the French Revolution, while supporting classical tradition. A revisionist of Marxism, Sorel believed that the victory of the proletariat in class struggle could be achieved only through the power of myth and a general strike. To Sorel, the aftermath of class conflict would involve rejuvenation of both the bourgeoisie and the proletariat. \n\nWith the seeming failure of Syndicalism, in 1910 he announced his abandonment of socialist literature and claimed in 1914, using an aphorism of Benedetto Croce that \"socialism is dead\" due to the \"decomposition of Marxism\". Sorel became a supporter of Maurrassian integral nationalism beginning in 1909, which he considered as having similar moral aims to syndicalism despite being enemies materially. In this sense, Sorelianism is considered to be a precursor to fascism. However, he became disillusioned with these ideas with the first world war, and from 1918 until his death in 1922 he would be a supporter of the then Russian revolution and Communism, which he considered a revival for Syndicalism. \n\nRejecting the Marxist elevation of history as determined, Sorel considered the challenge of the new social sciences to be new moral criterion. Proudhon had believed that a just society could only come about through action, and in particular opposition to an enemy; following this line Sorel believed that class war between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie would result from a general strike, which, together with the betterment of living conditions, he considered distinct from the mere aim of state distribution, and as the material and moral essence of Marxism and Socialism. \n\nHowever, he had problems with Proudhon, and Sorel seems to have sought to detach it of its idealism, as Proudhon had detached justice from power play; that is, from class relations. Otherwise only minimally influencing him, in admiration of Nietzsche Sorel held that an imperialist working class would establish a new aristocracy, \"organizing relations among men for the benefit of its sovereignty\" and as a sole source of law. However, he believed that proletarian violence would strengthen the bourgeoisie, and focused on the moral regeneration of society and the rescue of civilization rather than only the working-class, considering socialism a means for revolutionary transformation of society rather than a movement of the proletariat or a movement with a specific social structure.\n\nSorel believed there to be a close relation between conflict and freedom. Inspired by liberal institutions and the pluralist writings of William James, Sorel denounced imitation of the military corps, extoling a warrior-individualism which he compared to the \"American spirit\", \"animated with the spirit of liberty.\" He opposed the \"splendid isolation\" of totalitarian movements connecting all activities to party fronts.\n\nSorel considers the myth of the general strike a social basis for authority providing coherence to syndicalism. Against Nietzsche's Superman he compares the general strike with the \"apocalyptic myths\" or \"Yankee Protestantism\" of the practical, individualistic American settler ready for any venture. He considered that neither the former nor the latter impinge upon the freedom of the individual.\n\nAgainst the idea of centralized Imperium he espouses a Proudhonian balance and devotion to the weak based on family love, which he believed needed to be part of the warrior ethic. Combined with an ethic of labour, it was this that would enable freedom.\n\nSorel advocated the separation of groups in society, including support of the syndicalist model of a society where the proletariat workers would be autonomous and separate from bourgeois industrialists. Sorel refused the idea of negotiation between the classes during the period of struggle between the proletariat against the bourgeoisie. However, Sorel believed that it was the proletariat's task to awaken the bourgeoisie from intellectual stupor to recover its morality, \"productive energy\", and \"feeling of its own dignity\" that Sorel claimed had been lost because of democratic ideals.\n\nHence, Sorel believed that both the end result of class conflict would in the end result in the rejuvenation of both the bourgeoisie and the proletariat.\n\nSorel focused on the ethical dimension of Marxism, claiming its utility for historical analysis and a means for transforming society. However, Sorel criticized the deterministic, materialist, and mechanist components of Marxism. Sorel criticized vulgar interpretations of Marxism for being unfaithful to Marx's real intentions. Sorel claimed that Marx was not materialist at all, noting that Marx did not regard psychological developments of people as part of the economic process. Sorel noted that Marx described the necessary ideological superstructure of societies: law, the organization of the state, religion, art, and philosophy. As a result, Sorel claimed that \"no great philosophy can be established without being based on art and on religion\".\n\nSorel claimed that although Marx had initially denounced Pierre-Joseph Proudhon while supporting Blanquism, that Marx later synthesized ideas from both Blanquism and Proudhonism together. Sorel claimed that Marxism had undergone a crisis in the 1880s and the 1890s when major socialist parties were being founded in France. Sorel viewed non-Proudhonian socialism as being wrong-headed and corrupt, as being inherently oppressive. Sorel claimed that a \"decomposition of Marxism\", as referring to the major goals and themes of the ideology, was being caused by Marx's Blanquist elements and Engels' positivist elements.\n\nProudhonism was in Sorel's view, more consistent with the goals of Marxism than Blanquism which had become popular in France, and Sorel claimed that Blanquism was a vulgar and rigidly deterministic corruption of Marxism.\n\nInterest in Sorelian thought arose in the French political right, particularly by French nationalist Charles Maurras of \"Action Française\" and his supporters. While Maurras was a staunch opponent of Marxism, he was supportive of Sorelianism for its opposition to liberal democracy. Maurras famously stated \"a socialism liberated from the democratic and cosmopolitan element fits nationalism well as a well made glove fits a beautiful hand\". In the summer of 1909, Sorel endorsed French integral nationalism and praised Maurras. Sorel was impressed by the significant numbers of \"ardent youth\" that enrolled in \"Action Française\". Sorel's turn to nationalism resulted in his disregarding of Marx in favour of the views of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon. In 1910, Sorel along with \"Action Française\" nationalists Édouard Berth and Georges Valois agreed to form a journal titled \"La Cité française\" that would promote a form of national-socialism, however this was abandoned. Afterwards, Sorel supported another nationalist newspaper, \"L'Indépendence\" and began writing anti-Semitic content claiming that France was under attack from \"Jewish invaders\". In 1911, on the issue of Sorelian syndicalism, Valois announced to the Fourth Congress of \"Action Française\" that \"It was not a mere accident that our friends encountered the militants of syndicalism. The nationalist movement and the syndicalist movement, alien to another though they may seem, because of their present positions and orientations, have more than one common objective.\"\n\nDuring his association with French nationalism, Sorel joined Valois in the \"Cercle Proudhon\", an organization that Valois declared to provide \"a common platform for nationalists and leftist antidemocrats\". The organization recognized both Proudhon and Sorel as two great thinkers who had \"prepared the meeting of the two French traditions that had opposed each other throughout the nineteenth century: nationalism and authentic socialism uncorrupted by democracy, represented by syndicalism\". \"Cercle Proudhon\" announced that it supported the replacement of bourgeois ideology and democratic socialism with a new ethic of an alliance of nationalism with syndicalism, as those \"two synthesizing and convergent movements, one at the extreme right and the other at the extreme left, that have begun the siege and assault on democracy\". \"Cercle Proudhon\" supported the replacement of the liberal order with a new world that was \"virile, heroic, pessimistic, and puritanical—based on the sense of duty and sacrifice: a world where the mentality of warriors and monks would prevail\". The society would be dominated by a powerful avant-garde proletarian elite that would serve as an aristocracy of producers, and allied with intellectual youth dedicated to action against the decadent bourgeoisie.\n\nUpon Sorel's death, an article in the Italian Fascist doctrinal review \"Gerarchia\" edited by Benito Mussolini and Agostino Lanzillo, a known Sorelian, declared \"Perhaps fascism may have the good fortune to fulfill a mission that is the implicit aspiration of the whole oeuvre of the master of syndicalism: to tear away the proletariat from the domination of the Socialist party, to reconstitute it on the basis of spiritual liberty, and to animate it with the breath of creative violence. This would be the true revolution that would mold the forms of the Italy of tomorrow.\"\n\nAside from Sorel himself, there were a number of adherents of Sorelianism in the early 20th century. Sorel was a mentor to Hubert Lagardelle who, like Sorel, supported the segregation of social classes and who despised the bourgeoisie, democracy, democratic socialism, parliamentarism, social democracy, and universal suffrage. Antonio Gramsci was influenced by the Sorelian views of social myth. Based on influence from Sorel, Gramsci asserted that Italy and the West have suffered from crises of culture and authority due to the \"wave of materialism\" and the inability of liberalism to achieve consensus and hegemony over society. Sorel influenced Greek philosopher Nikos Kazantzakis in Kazantzakis' belief of strife as being creative while viewing peace as decadent. José Carlos Mariátegui was a Sorelian who claimed that Vladimir Lenin was a Sorelian and Nietzschean hero.\n\nBenito Mussolini, when he was a Marxist, held various positions towards Sorelianism at times. Mussolini stated that he became a syndicalist during the 1904 Italian general strike; his close contact with syndicalists dates to 1902. Mussolini reviewed Sorel's \"Reflections on Violence\" in 1909 and supported Sorel's view of consciousness as being a part of protracted struggle, where people display uplifting and self-sacrificing virtues akin to the heroes of antiquity. Mussolini also supported the Sorelian view of the necessity of violence in revolution. He followed Sorel in denouncing humanitarianism and compromise between revolutionary socialists and reformist socialists and bourgeois democrats. By 1909, Mussolini supported elitism and anti-parliamentarism, and became a propagandist for the use of \"regenerative violence\". When Sorelians initially began to come close to identifying themselves with nationalism and monarchism in 1911, Mussolini believed that such association would destroy their credibility as socialists.\n\n"}
{"id": "38032018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38032018", "title": "State collapse", "text": "State collapse\n\nState collapse, breakdown, or downfall is the complete failure of a mode of government within a sovereign state. Sometimes this brings about a failed state, as in Somalia and the final decade of Yugoslavia. More often, there is an immediate process of transition to a new administration, and basic services such as tax collection, defence, police, civil service, and courts are maintained throughout, as in South Africa following the failure of the apartheid system.\n\nState collapse may coincide with economic collapse. State collapse is not always synonymous with societal collapse, which often is a more prolonged process, as in the fall of the western Roman Empire. \n\nNot all attempts at regime change succeed in bringing about state collapse. The 16th-century Babington plot to assassinate Queen Elizabeth I of England, the 19th-century Decembrist revolt in Russia, and the 20th-century Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba failed.\n\nFor Aristotle (384–322 BC), the inherent dangers of democracy were, first, that conflict between the aristocracy and the poor was inevitable; and second, that it would usher in \"mischief and corruption\". Both processes would lead to collapse unless independent controls and separation of powers were enforced. The ancient Greek philosopher Polybius (c.200 – c.118 BC) asserted that all nations follow a cycle of; democracy, oligarchy, dictatorship, tyranny and collapse.\n\nIslamic scholar Ibn Khaldun (1332 – 1406) also produced a general theory of state collapse. A \"theological rationalist\", he transformed the study of history into a \"new science\". In his eyes, dynasties repeatedly become \"sedentary, senile, coercive, pompous, subservient to desire ... liable to divisions in the dynasty.\" Group feeling (asabiyyah, groupthink) disappears as the dynasty grows senile. Ibn Khaldun was fatalistic; \"This senility is a chronic disease which cannot be cured because it is something natural\". He observed that dynasties last for three generations before a new invading clique, \"restless, alert and courageous\", will cause the old to collapse in accordance with the principle in the Book of Exodus, chapter 20, verse four: God \"visits the sins of the fathers onto their children, even unto the third and fourth generation of those that hate Him\". Professor Geoff Mulgan discusses Ibn Khaldun in detail and agrees on the timescale: \"There are obvious parallels between the lifespans of individuals and those of ruling groups.\"\n\nJ.J. Saunders, claiming in 1966 that \"our age, like his, is one of misery\", regrets that Ibn Khaldun had \"no predecessors and no successors ... not until four centuries after his death did he rise from his long sleep.\" In 1868 French Arabists translated the Muqaddimah; \"the world was amazed, but he remained a lonely pioneer without followers ... the world has yet to prove that history can exist independently of the theological setting that gives it meaning\".\n\nThe Japanese philosopher Hajime Tanabe points to the quasi-religious role of the state to mediate between mortal individuals and the eternal universe, so that states regularly collapse; like religious figures, they must undergo a process of death and resurrection. In his view this may account for the perennial popularity of states because they regularly demonstrate their ability to transcend death.\n\nAccording to psychologist Erich Fromm it is possible for an entire nation, if they all share the same vices and errors, to become insane—a \"folie a millions\". Inhuman treatment by the rulers inevitably leads to collapse; Despots and ruling cliques can succeed in dominating and exploiting their fellow man ... but their subjects react ... with apathy, impairment of intelligence, initiative and skills ... or they react by the accumulation of such hate and destructiveness as to bring about an end to themselves, their rulers and their system. ... if man lives under conditions contrary to his nature and to human growth and sanity, he cannot help reacting.' Mark Blyth alleges that a democracy can also collapse \"if voters don't get what they want and merely affirm the status quo.\" In these circumstances, voters deprived of real choice may opt for the least democratic option.\n\nMarina Ottaway discusses the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and Ottoman Empire in 1918, British India in 1947, the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the collapse of South Africa's white supremacist government in 1993, of Czechoslovakia the following year, and of Yugoslavia. Harold Perkin sees \"an acceleration of the process of collapse ... the [20th century] saw the collapse of seven great empires: Imperial China, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Ottoman Turkey, the Japanese empire, the British Empire, and Russia, twice\". Furthermore, the 20th Century saw the collapse of the French and Portuguese Empires.\n\nJohn Kenneth Galbraith regrets the \"very slight\" amount of research on political power in such cases. Power regularly passes to those who \"assert the unknown with the greatest conviction... not necessarily related to intelligence.\" What we call \"power\" is, \"in practice, the illusion of power.\" Discussing how the \"powerless\" Mahatma Gandhi brought about the collapse of militarily \"powerful\" British India, Galbraith reflects that power, mostly seen as a possession of states and their leaders, would be better viewed as a flow, into and away from \"those instruments that enforce it\".\n\nFew political scientists credibly predicted the collapse of the Soviet Union or agreed on its causes. No one predicted the Arab spring. Though many writings study particular cases of state collapse in isolation, there appears to be no contemporary text which compares events on a global historical basis and identifies common features.\n\nMartin Wight, like Saunders, deplored the \"demonic concentrations of power\" of the defeated countries in the two world wars. A devout Christian, he saw their \"triumphant self-destruction\" as \"Antichrist moments\". He disliked the modern secular tendency to view politics as a succession of questions (the Eastern question, the two-state solution) with \"solutions\" which are devoid of moral content, because The members of international society are, on the whole, immortals. States do die or disappear occasionally, but mostly they outlive the span of human life. They are partnerships of the living with posterity ... A society of immortals will be looser than one of mortals ... there are moral difficulties about indicting a whole nation, because (to do so) would make the passive majority suffer for the acts of the criminal minority, and future generations for the sins of the fathers. \n\nRegarding the idea of a state being immortal, the nation called Russia has survived the collapse of two different political systems: Imperial Russia, a monarchy, in 1917; and the Soviet Union, a communist totalitarianism, in 1991. Likewise, though Germany, ruled by the Nazi Party, was defeated in 1945 and the nation, Germany, was dismembered, it was resurrected in 1990.\n\nExamples of state collapse through civil war include: the War of the Roses in 15th-century England; the Thirty years war (1618–48); the Irish Civil War (1916-22); the Chinese Communist Revolution (1949); and the Cuban Revolution (1958). State collapses through revolutions, not featuring civil war, took place in Imperial China (1911), in Russia (1917), and in Iran (1979). Collapse through \"Coups d'etat\" occurred in Egypt (1952), in Iraq (1958), and in Libya (1969). Negotiated surrenders of power took place in the English Commonwealth (1660); and in the collapse of the Soviet Union (1991), when it fragmented into fifteen independent states.\n\nMediaeval England was the scene of several violent dynastic collapses: the fall of the West Saxon kings, when William the Conqueror defeated Harold Godwinson in 1066; the civil war known as The Anarchy from 1139-1153 between Stephen and Empress Matilda, a time when 'Christ and his saints were asleep', which ended the Norman line of kings; the reign of the last Angevin, John, King of England, known as 'Lackland' for his military incompetence in losing Anjou; the tyranny of the last Plantagenet monarch, Richard II, who was defeated by Henry, duke of Lancaster, later Henry IV; the destruction of the Lancastrian dynasty during the Wars of the Roses, and especially at the battle of Tewkesbury in 1471; and the battle of Bosworth, which saw the end of Richard III and the Yorkist line \n\nThe Taiping Rebellion (1850-1864) was a civil war in China between the established Manchu-led Qing dynasty and the Christian millenarian movement of the Heavenly Kingdom of Peace. It was the second-worst conflict in history; 20-30 millions died over 15 years. In 1858-60 the Qing dynasty effectively collapsed as France and the UK invaded and imposed unequal treaties. In 1864 the Taiping regime also collapsed and the dynasty was reshaped in the Tongzhi Restoration.\n\nThe partition of India in 1947 led to the creation of two independent nations, India and Pakistan. The partition displaced between 10 and 12 million Sikhs, Hindus and Moslems, creating overwhelming refugee crises; there was large-scale violence, with estimates of loss of life accompanying or preceding the partition disputed and varying between several hundred thousand and two million.\n\nFailed attempts at reform in the Soviet Union, a standstill economy, and defeat in the war in Afghanistan led to a general feeling of discontent, especially in the Baltic republics and Eastern Europe. Greater political and social freedoms, instituted by the last Soviet leader, Mikhail Gorbachev's policies of Glasnost and Perestroika encouraged open criticism of the communist regime. The dramatic drop of the price of oil in 1985 and 1986 profoundly influenced actions of the Soviet leadership. The Reagan administration in the 1980s placed Pershing II missiles in western Europe in order to escalate the Cold War, overstretch the USSR economy and bring about its downfall because 'they can't sustain military spending the way we can'. The Soviet Union finally collapsed in 1991 when Boris Yeltsin seized power in the aftermath of a failed coup that had attempted to topple Gorbachev. Soviet nuclear weapons were all reassigned to Russia; \n\nThe Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia collapsed in the 1990s, when its six socialist republics broke apart to become separate countries; though Slovenia seceded peacefully, civil wars broke out in Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo, then part of Serbia. Ethnic cleansing and genocide erupted, including the Srebrenica massacre and Bosnian genocide.\n\nThe apartheid system in South Africa ended through negotiations between the governing National Party, the African National Congress, and other political organizations, resulting in South Africa's first non-racial election, which was won by the African National Congress.\nConcerns were raised about the future of its nuclear weapons but they were dismantled.\n\nIn a totalitarian state or an ideocracy, individuals may develop a closed mind and an authoritarian personality, making them more likely to resist threats to the incumbent regime. Psychologists speak of a \"Masada complex\" that may drive fanatics to a suicidal, violent last-ditch stand. Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has commented that \"History teaches that dangers are never greater than when empires break up.\"\n\nThe new regime gains power, not through the truth of its doctrines and promises, but through its ability to organize and absorb the frustrated masses. As Pope Francis warned in 2017, \"in times of crisis, we lack judgement\". The timidity of the old regime contrasts with the boldness of those in rebellion against it; \"Where power is not joined with faith in the future, it is used mainly to ward off the new and preserve the status quo. On the other hand, extravagant hope, even when not backed by actual power, is likely to generate reckless daring.\" \"The frustrated see in a general downfall an approach to the brotherhood of all. Chaos, like the grave, is a haven of equality.\"\n\nAccording to political scientists, in an ideocracy there must be a ruthless charismatic leader: \"the leader is the movement\", and all individuals are required to submit to, and worship him. \"Followers who lead barren, insecure, frustrated lives obey the leader, not through faith in his vision of a 'Promised land', but because he leads them away from their unwanted selves\". When collapse threatens he may insist on a \"fight to the finish\".\n\nHitler, according to Walter Langer had a Messiah complex and saw himself as the \"Saviour of Germany\" who performed \"miracles\" with the economy. He was unnaturally fond of his mother, to the extent that Germany became a \"mother symbol\". His drive to destroy (the Jews, communism, Europe) was an unconscious attempt to resolve his Oedipus complex and the injustices of his childhood. He \"dismantled the German state ... and replaced it with a war machine\". He was swept along by a tide of events.\n\nMussolini, according to Denis Mack Smith, \"was an actor, playing the part that Italians wanted him to be\". He was vindictive, sadistic, impulsive, proud and cruel, full of \"demonic wilfulness\" and did not know right from wrong. When in 1944 he led a puppet state in northern Italy, he \"divided Italy in two and initiated 18 months of terrible civil war.\" Ken Livingstone has compared Slobodan Milosevic to Hitler for his racism and expansionist goals. Saddam Hussein, who also suffered from a Messiah complex, was similar: \"Hitler was not one of a kind. As long as millions of people passionately long for his return, it is only a matter of time until their wish is fulfilled.\"\n\nNicolae Ceaușescu \"went mad\" as early as 1971 according to John Sweeney, when, \"blind to his own Messianism\", he attempted to recreate North Korean totalitarianism in Romania. He \"played the king\" and the role of \"chosen one\" and \"saviour\". Czar Nicholas II by contrast was deferential. Acceding at an early age, 26, he was untrained in governance. Grand Duke Vladimir's son Cyril was a rival candidate for the throne. Liberals and revolutionaries challenged his autocracy. By 1916 he had become apathetic, dominated by the Czarina and Rasputin, a \"Christ in the image of the rejected and agonizing monarchy\".\n\nIn the case of the USSR, a Marxist Revolutionary wave had formed in which several subordinate regimes in Eastern Europe and Africa collapsed almost simultaneously with the central power. Mikhail Gorbachev saw the USSR as \"on the way to civil war\" and tried to conciliate both reformers and hardliners. He and F.W. De Klerk in South Africa focused on acknowledging and managing decline, rather than \"heroically\" attempting to deny it. They have enjoyed better reputations, although in China, Gorbachev is seen as a dismal failure who capitulated to the West.\n\nState collapse is often a gradual process of slow, imperceptible, generational change. Only the courageous are prepared for speaking truth to power; the majority 'go with the flow', as with Jewish passivity in the face of the creeping corruption of Nazi Germany.\n\nCollapse is often preceded externally by war, and internally by overpopulation and repression. As Paul Kennedy points out, 'Nations in decline instinctively spend more on \"security\" and thus compound their long-term dilemma.' In the case of a revolution the crisis is reached when 'the old regime is no longer able to mobilise force'.\n\nEither the incumbent regime itself, or an extremist reactionary group dissatisfied with its performance, may attempt to postpone or avoid collapse by regenerating popular support; 'At the end of a dynasty there often appears some show of power giving the impression that the dynasty's senility has been made to disappear. It lights up brilliantly just before it is extinguished, like a candle which leaps up brilliantly just before it is put out.' \nTo do so they may have to take 'heroic' measures; 'Throughout history there have always been in the event of defeat two paths of action; the one aims at saving enough of the substance as possible. the other at leaving behind a stirring legend.' According to Piekalkiewicz and Penn, they may rethink or adapt the ideology, or replace it by a completely new set of ideals. For example, in Poland, according to Piekalkiewicz and Penn, communist ideocracy failed in 1980; the recognition of Lech Walesa's Solidarity Trade Union led to a military coup and authoritarian military rule.\n\nAccording to Sabrina Ramet, regenerative changes occurred in Yugoslavia in the 1980s when the communist ideology was replaced by a nationalist drive for a Greater Serbia and by an anti-bureaucratic revolution in support of Slobodan Milosevic \nThe Young Turk coup of 1908, the 1991 Soviet coup d'etat attempt, and the financial/industrial reforms of Sergei Witte in Imperial Russia, were all aimed at regenerating causes which were nearing collapse.\n\nWhen collapse - whether through civil war, revolution, coup d'état, or military defeat and/or invasion - becomes unavoidable and immediate, law and order may break down. There may be Ethnic cleansing or Genocide. Hitler ordered the killing of invalids, Gypsies, Russians and Jews in the Final solution. In Ottoman Turkey, estimates for the death toll in the Armenian genocide vary between 300,000 and 1.5 million.\n\nIn the Pacific theatre of World War II, Japan's collapse was hastened by nuclear destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\nWhen Ottoman Turkey collapsed at the end of World War I, it lost territory, including what became Syria, Iraq and Palestine; the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian empire gave rise to Czechoslovakia, Hungary and the Austrian Republic, while Slovenia and Croatia became part of Yugoslavia]]. Nazi Germany in 1945 fragmented into East and West Germany, while Pomerania and Silesia became part of Poland\n\nIn 1946, the Diet ratified a new Constitution of Japan The new constitution drafted by Americans allowed access and control over the Japanese military through MacArthur and the Allied occupation on Japan. \"The political project drew much of its inspiration from the U.S. Bill of Rights, New Deal social legislation, the liberal constitutions of several European states and even the Soviet Union.\"\n\nRecovery from collapse is often improved by formal or informal efforts at justice, such as the Nuremberg trials and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (South Africa). Slobodan Milosevic and Saddam Hussein were also tried in court, but Mussolini and Colonel Gaddafi were murdered by mobs.\n\nThe collapse of the Ottomans in 1918 had long-term consequences, 'triggering most of the problems that plague the Middle East today.' Hegemony in the Middle East has been subject to quarrels between British, French, Zionist, American, Arab nationalist, Saudi and Iranian interests ever since.\n\nHitler, says Sebastian Haffner, 'whether we like it or not', created many features of the postwar world, including the state of Israel, the end of European empires, the division of Germany, and the joint hegemony of the US and USSR.\n\nPaul Stares and Helia Aghani suggest that Saudi Arabia could lapse into a succession crisis and civil war if Mohammed bin Salman's accession is contested after the death of his aging father, king Salman. Lebanon and Jordan could collapse following the influx of refugees from Syria and the resultant burden on infrastructure.\n\nIn 2003, Colonel Gaddafi of Libya agreed to dismantle his nuclear and chemical weapons programme. In 2011 he was deposed and murdered. This is the reason, according to Forbes magazine, for North Korea to seek to guarantee its security and invulnerability through continuing its nuclear weapons programme. Tom Embury-Dennis claims that North Korea could collapse \"within a year\" as new US sanctions take effect.\nIn Venezuela, protests and riots against the authoritarian rule of Nicolas Maduro have steadily increased since 2014, while the economy and social infrastructure have worsened.\n\nEmmanuel Todd, one of the first to predict the fall of the USSR, now predicts the collapse of the US in his book \"\". According to Iranian general Reza Naqdi, the US will collapse by 2035 and the Trump presidency is hastening that process. Margaret McMillan has compared President Trump to Mussolini, on the grounds that President Trump similarly seeks attention, makes grand gestures, plays the 'strong man' and seeks out enemies.\n\nNigel Lawson predicts that the European Union will become a federal superstate; also likely to collapse, according to the Polish president, Andrzej Duda, journalist Stephen Pollard, German economist Thorsten Polleit, and a leaked German Government contingency plan.\n\nS Daniel Abraham anticipates the collapse of Israel, where Palestinians will soon outnumber Jews, if the Palestinian problem is not resolved; Iqbal Jassat compares the situation to apartheid in South Africa. A secret CIA report sees the end of Israel by 2022. In Pakistan, Islamic militants are allegedly infiltrating the military and nuclear weapons systems. There are fears of collapse into nuclear war with India, or of chaos enabling extremists to seize weapons of mass destruction.\n\nGordon G. Chang, in editions of \"The Coming Collapse of China\", has made several predictions of collapse, none of which have materialised. Bruce Gilley sees a largely peaceful process unfolding. David Shambaugh says China must either liberalise to become a developed economy–as Taiwan and South Korea have–or else remain authoritarian and endure a stagnating economy. \"We cannot predict when Chinese communism will collapse, but it is hard not to conclude that we are seeing its final phases.\"\n\nMark Katz suggests that the Islamic fundamentalist revolutionary wave led by Iran could collapse, but \"must first expand significantly\" and then experience a \"crisis of confidence\".\n\nGeoff Mulgan has called for; \"new structures of government above the nation-state... this task is essential for Human survival\".\n\nThere are many semi-fictional books and films, which dramatically demonstrate the turbulent effects of collapse upon innocent or naive individuals. Bernardo Bertolucci's film, \"The Last Emperor\", showed the collapse of both Imperial China and Manchukuo, as well as the post-collapse trial and rehabilitation of Pu Yi. Bruno Ganz played Hitler in \"Downfall\", which depicts the final days of Germany's Third Reich. Events from the period,\nas seen by prisoners at Auschwitz, are shown in Primo Levi's memoir, \"If This Is a Man\", and in the graphic novels \"Maus\" and \"Maus II\". Kurt Vonnegut witnessed the bombing of Dresden and fictionalized the experience in \"Slaughterhouse-Five\".\n\nRobert K. Massie's book about the last Russian tsar, \"Nicholas and Alexandra\", was also filmed. \"Doctor Zhivago\" and \"And Quiet Flows the Don\" (filmed as \"War and Revolution\") relate stories of families caught up in the collapse of Russia. \"The House of the Mosque\" and \"Persepolis\" depict the collapse of Iran.\n\nThe \"Left Behind\" series of novels by \"Tim LaHaye\" and \"Jerry B. Jenkins\" features the supposed role of Israel in the apocalyptic End Times. In the spy novel, \"The Mask of Dimitrios\" (1939), Eric Ambler comments: \"In a dying civilization, political prestige goes not to the man with the shrewdest diagnosis, but to the one with the best bedside manner.\"\n"}
{"id": "58263273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58263273", "title": "Timeline of the Kingdom of Jerusalem", "text": "Timeline of the Kingdom of Jerusalem\n\nThe timeline of the Kingdom of Jerusalem presents important events of the history of the Kingdom of Jerusalema crusader state in Palestinein chronological order. The kingdom was established during the First Crusade. Its first ruler, Godfrey of Bouillon, was not crowned king and swore fealty to the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem, Daimbert in 1099. Godfrey's brother and successor, Baldwin I, who did not acknowledge the patriarchs' sovereignty, was crowned the first king of Jerusalem in 1100. Baldwin I and his successors captured all towns on the coast with the support of Pisan, Genoese and Venetian fleets and also took control of the caravan routes between Egypt and Syria. The kings regularly administered other crusader statesthe Counties of Edessa and Tripoli, and the Principality of Antiochon behalf of their absent or minor rulers.\n\nThe polarisation of the Muslim world enabled the crusaders (or Franks) to consolidate their rule in Palestine. They could also appeal to the Popes and the European rulers for help against their enemies. Baldwin III and Amalric maintained a close alliance with the Byzantine Empire, but they could not prevent the ruler of Aleppo, Nur ad-Din from uniting the Muslim states in Syria in the 1150s. Internal strives weakened the kingdom during the reigns of the leper Baldwin IV and the unpopular Guy of Lusignan, which enabled Nur ad-Din's former general, Saladin to unite Egypt and Syria in the 1180s. Saladin annihilated the crusader army in the Battle of Hattin on July 4, 1187 and occupied almost the whole kingdom during the following months.\n\nAn Italian crusader, Conrad of Montferrat, saved Tyre and the Third Crusade forced Saladin to acknowledge the restoration of the Franks' rule in most coastal towns in his 1192 truce with Richard I of England. Further lands were recovered during the reigns of Henry of Champagne and Aimery of Lusignan, and Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor, also restored the Franks' rule in Jerusalem in 1229. Frederick and his successors were absent monarchs and the kingdom was administered by regents (or baillifs) from 1229 to 1269. Due to conflicts between the kings' representatives and the powerful barons, and the War of Saint Sabas between Genoa and Venice, the kingdom disintegrated into autonomous towns and lordships by the 1260s. The personal union of Jerusalem and Cyprus could not prevent the Mameluks of Egypt from occupying the last Frank outposts in 1291.\n\nLocal Muslims and Christians made up the majority of the population in the countryside, but Europeanmainly French, Italian and Catalancolonists also settled in the villages. Sugar refinery, based on local sugarcane plantations, developed into an important industry.\n\n1009\n1027\n1055\n1063\nbefore 1071\n1071\n1074\n1080s\n1092\n1095\n1096\n1097\n1098\n1099\n\n1099\n 1100\n1100\n\n1100s\n1101\n1102\n1103\n1103–1106\n 1104\n1104\n1105\n 1107\n1106–1108\n1107\n1108\n1109\n1110\n1111\n1112\n1113\n1114\n1115\n 1116\n1117\n1118\n1119\n1120\n1120s\n1121\n1122\n1123\n1123 or 1124\n1124\n\n1124\n1125\n1126\n1127\n1127\n1128\n1129\n 1130\n1130\n1131\n 1132– 1135\n1132\n1133\n1134\n 1135\n1135\n1136\n1137\n1138\n1139\n1140\n1141\n1142\n1143\n1144\n\n1145\n1146\n1146–1153\n1147\n1148\n1149\nbefore 1150\n1150\n1150s\n1151\n1152\n1153\n1154\n 1155\n1155\n1156\n1157\n1158\n1159\n1160\n1161\n1163\n 1164\n1164\n1167\n1168\n1169\n 1170\n1170\n1171\n1173\n1174\n\n1174\n1175\n1176\n1177\n1178\n1179\n 1180\n1180\n1181\n1182\n1183\n1184\n1185\n1186\n1187\n1187\n1188\n1189\n1190\n1191\n1192\n1192\n1193\n 1194\n1194\n1195\n1196\n1197\n1198\n1200\n1202\n1203\n1204\n1205\n 1206\n1206\n 1207\n1208\n1209\n1210\n1211\n1212\n1213\n1214\n1215\n1217\n1218\n1219\n1220\n1221\n1222\n1223\n1224\n1225\n1227\n1228\n1229\n\n1229\n1230\n1231\n1232\n1233\n1234\n1235\n1236\n1237\n1238\n1239\n1240\n1241\n1242\n1243\n1244\n1245\n1246\n 1247\n1247\n1248\n1249\n 1250\n1250\n1251\n1252\n1253\n1254\n1255\n1256\n1257\n1258\n1259\n1260\n1261\n1263\n1264\n 1265\n1265\n1266\n1267\n1268\n\n1269\n1270\n1271\n1272\n1274\n1275\n1276\n1277\n1279\n1281\n1282\n1283\n1284\n1285\n1286\n1287\n1289\n1290\n1291\n\n1290s\n1291\n1295\n1299\n1309–1311\n1335\n1365\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1169902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1169902", "title": "Transport during the British Industrial Revolution", "text": "Transport during the British Industrial Revolution\n\nTransportation of goods to factories, and of finished products from them, was limited by high transport costs along roads to their destinations. This was not too severe in the case of light valuable materials such as textiles (woolen and linen cloth) but in the case of dense materials such as coal, it could be a limiting factor on the viability of an industry. In contrast, freighting goods by water, whether on rivers or coastwise was much cheaper. Canals brought the first major change to transportation, and were usually built directly from the mines to city centres, such as the famous Bridgewater Canal in Manchester. Tramways were also common using horses locomotion.\n\nSome rivers, such as the Thames, Severn and Trent were naturally navigable, at least in their lower reaches. \n\nOther rivers were improved during the 17th and early 18th centuries, improving the transport links of towns such as Manchester, Wigan, Hereford, and Newbury in England. However these only provided links towards the coast, not across the heart of England. It was the canals which were to provide the vital links in the transport network.\n\nIn England, the roads of each parish were maintained by compulsory labour from the parishioners, six days per year. This proved inadequate in the case of certain heavily used roads, and from the 18th century (and in a few cases slightly earlier), statutory bodies of trustees began to be set up with power to borrow money to repair and improve roads, the loans being repaid from tolls collected from road users. In the 1750s there was a boom in creating new turnpike trusts with the result that by the end of the 18th century almost all main roads were turnpike roads. Each trust required an Act of Parliament, both on its initial creation and to renew it when the term granted by the Act expired. Cars were invented in the 1800s.\n\nThese railways were all horse-drawn, though in many cases their slope meant that the horse was not required to draw the wagon downhill; instead it was necessary to apply a brake to slow the descent. The wagon was emptied into a river barge (or keel or trow), and the horse drew the empty wagon back to the coal pit. Steam engine haulage was tried by Richard Trevithick on the Merthyr Tramroad from Penydarren to Abercynon in 1804, but proved unsatisfactory, partly because the engine was too heavy for the rails. It was only after the development of stronger rails made of rolled wrought iron in the 1820s that steam engine-hauled long-distance railways became feasible. Like the early wagonways, these were (indeed are) edge railways, where the wheels of the engine and wagons (or carriages) are flanged. Thus followed the Stockton and Darlington Railway, the Liverpool and Manchester Railway and many more. People were able to use railways to get to factory work and jobs much more effectively than previous options.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17770929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17770929", "title": "Tuomo Polvinen", "text": "Tuomo Polvinen\n\nTuomo Ilmari Polvinen (born 2 December 1931, in Helsinki), Finnish historian, PhD 1964.\n\nPolvinen was an official (1957–61) in the Finnish national archives in Helsinki, and (1970–74) its chief. 1968-70 he was professor in general history at Tampere University and (1974–92) professor on the subject at Helsinki University; research professor (1979–89) and (1992–95).\n\nPolvinen has focused on the relations between Finland and Russia/Soviet Union. Amongst Polvinen's works are \"Suomi suurvaltain politiikassa 1941-44\", which is about Finland in the context of great power politics, \"Venäjän vallankumous ja Suomi 1917-1920\" (2 parts, 1967–71), which is about Russian revolution and Finland, \"Between East and West\" (1986), furthermore a work on Bobrikov as governor general in Finland, \"Imperial borderland\" (1995) and a great biography in five parts about president J.K. Paasikivi.\n\n"}
{"id": "38637407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38637407", "title": "Turkish Croatia", "text": "Turkish Croatia\n\nTurkish Croatia or Ottoman Croatia (, , , ) was a part of the territory of the Croatian Kingdom occupied by the Ottoman Empire during the 15th and 16th century. By the 19th century, with the Croatian population mostly displaced, the name Turkish Croatia was replaced by cartographers in favor of Bosanska Krajina (Bosnian Frontier).\n\nThe territory of Turkish Croatia roughly comprised the land area between three rivers – Vrbas in the east, Sava in the northeast, Una in the northwest – as well as Dinara mountain in the south, and including the \"Cazinska krajina\" pocket in the far west. This area is a part of the present-day state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\nParts of Lika, Banovina and northern Dalmatia were also parts of Turkish Croatia, when its borders went further west.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages and the very beginning of the Early modern period, the territory of Turkish Croatia was situated in the central and eastern part of the independent medieval Croatian state (from 925 known as Kingdom of Croatia), which lasted until the beginning of the 12th century, when the country, following the Pacta conventa agreement, entered into a personal union with Hungary in 1102. At that time the term „Bosnia“ was used for a relatively small area alongside the upper part of the Bosna river that barely reached the Drina, which constituded eastern border of Croatia-Hungary state. \nIt was only in the 14th century, at the time of civil war in Croatia and Hungary, that the Ban and proclaimed King Stjepan Tvrtko I which had most of his estates in central Bosnia grew in both, size and power, attracting local nobels as Hrvatinići on his side trying to take the title of King in Croatia and Dalmatia.\nThis events made the borders more flexible (after his death there were numerous civil wars in Bosnia), and made the local nobility more important as Hrvoje Vukčić Hrvatinić, duke of Split and vice king of Bosnia became \"real\" king of Bosnia in everything, but in its name. \n\nThe fall of Bosnia to the Ottomans in 1463 resulted in increasing pressure on Croatian borders and continual losses of the territory, little by little moving the border line to the west. Permanent warfare during the Hundred Years' Croatian–Ottoman War (1493-1593) drastically reduced Croatian population in affected southeastern regions. Until the end of the 16th century the whole area of Turkish Croatia was occupied by the mighty sultanate. The remaining Croats were either murdered or captured, converted to Islam and recruited as devsirme (\"blood tax\"). A part of the Croatian population managed to flee though, settling down in the northwestern regions of the country or abroad, in the neighbouring Hungary or Austria. Catholic churches were destroyed by the Ottoman soldiers or reconstructed into mosques; some priests and bishops were killed, some of them succeeded in escaping.\nParts of region were firstly organized as \"Vilayet Croat\", but later divided in sanjaks Krka, Klis and Bihać.\n\nFrom the 16th to 19th century Turkish Croatia bordered Croatian Military Frontier (, ), a Habsburg Empire-controlled part of Croatia, which was administered directly from Vienna's military headquarters. In the 19th century, following the Habsburg-Ottoman war in 1878 and the fall of the Bosnia Vilayet, Turkish Croatia remained within the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who 1908 became a new Crown land of the Habsburg Monarchy. Although the (recently renamed) old Croatian territory was liberated, there were very few Croatian population left, i.e. population who actually lived in it registered as Catholics and Croats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8946284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8946284", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 43", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 43\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 43, adopted unanimously on April 1, 1948, notes the increasing violence and disorder in Palestine, calling upon the Jewish Agency for Palestine and the Arab Higher Committee to make representatives available to the Security Council to arrange and enforce a truce. The Resolution further calls upon armed Arab and Jewish groups to cease acts of violence immediately.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37034054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37034054", "title": "Ware language", "text": "Ware language\n\nWare is an extinct Bantu language near Lake Victoria in East Africa.\n\nWhen an SIL team failed to find any speakers, \"Ethnologue\" retired the ISO code, apparently not realizing the language was known to be extinct.\n"}
{"id": "56733968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56733968", "title": "Whitney Davis", "text": "Whitney Davis\n\nWhitney Davis (born April 15, 1958) is an art historian, writer, and theorist. Davis has been teaching at the University of California, Berkeley in the art history department since 2001 as the George C. and Helen N. Pardee Professor of History and Theory of Ancient and Modern Art. In addition to an extensive list of publications in the field of Western art history, Davis has made major contributions to the field of queer theory and LGBTQ studies, such as the 1998 essay \"'Homosexualism,' Gay and Lesbian Studies, and Queer Theory in Art History.\"\n\nWhitney Davis attended Harvard College, earning an A.B. in 1980, later attending Harvard University to earn an A.M. in 1982 and Ph.D. in 1985. During this time, Davis held a position as a Junior Fellow in the Society of Fellows at Harvard from 1983-86, and wrote a dissertation titled \"The Canonical Tradition in Ancient Egyptian Art\".\n\nPrior to holding a teaching position at the University of California, Berkeley, Davis taught at Northwestern University from 1987 to 2001. During this time, Davis served as the Director of the Alice Berline Kaplan Center for the Humanities from 1995 to 1998, and as the John Evans Professor of Art History from 1998 to 2001.\n"}
