{"id": "7663658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7663658", "title": "A New Refutation of Time", "text": "A New Refutation of Time\n\n\"A New Refutation of Time\" () is an essay by Argentinian writer Jorge Luis Borges (written between 1944 and 1946) in which he argues that the negations of idealism may be extended to time. It consists of a prologue and two articles: the first one was written in 1944 and appeared in number 115 of the review \"Sur\"; the second, written in 1946, is a rework of the first. Borges comments that he did not combine the two texts into one, as the reading of two analogous texts might facilitate the comprehension of an indocile subject.\n\nJust as George Berkeley denies that there is an object existing independently of our perception of it, and David Hume denies that there is a subject apart from a mere recollection of sensations, Borges tries to demonstrate that there is no time.\n\nHe proceeds on the assumption that if \"man\" is reduced, as according to Hume, to a collection of sensations, a single repeated perception, either in one man's life or in the experience of two different men, suffices to prove that time is a fallacy, since this repetition will destroy its linear sequence.\n\n"}
{"id": "11437288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11437288", "title": "Abhor and Mehraela", "text": "Abhor and Mehraela\n\nAbhor (or Amba Hor) and Mehraela were a brother and sister who were martyrs for the Christian faith. Etymology of the word \"Abhor\": from Latin \"abhorrēre\" (to shudder at, shrink from), from \"ab\" (away) and \"horrēre\" (to bristle, shudder). The book of their \"acts\" has been lost. Their feast day is celebrated on January 9 in the Coptic Church.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "37609505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37609505", "title": "Adalbert I, Duke of Teck", "text": "Adalbert I, Duke of Teck\n\nAdalbert I, Duke of Teck, ( – ) was a German nobleman. After the death of his brother Berthold IV, he styled himself \"Duke of Teck\", and thus founded the elder line of the Dukes of Teck, which would exist until 1439.\n\nHe was a son of Duke Conrad I of Zähringen and his wife Clementia of Luxembourg-Namur. He was named after his maternal uncle.\n\nWhen his brother Berthold IV died in 1186, he inherited the family possessions in the foothills of the Swabian Jura, including Teck Castle and the office of Cup-bearer of the Abbey of St. Gall and the area on the upper Neckar that went with this office.\n\nHe is first mentioned as the son of Duke Conrad I in a document dated 1146; in 1152, he is named as a younger brother of Duke Berthold IV. In May 1189, he is first mentioned as Duke of Teck () in a document of Emperor Henry VI.\n\nA Duke \"Adalbert of Teck\" is also mentioned on 20 June 1192 in Schwäbisch Gmünd, on 4 (or 10) December 1193 in Gelnhausen and on 12 December 1193 at the court of Henry VI in Frankfurt, in a document of Count Egino IV of Urach about Bebenhausen Abbey, and by Bishop Diethelm of Constance in 1192. However, it is not clear whether these are references to Adalbert I or to his son, Adalbert II.\n\nWhen his brother Hugh, Duke of Ullenburg died, Adalbert inherited his possessions in the Ortenau and the Breisgau. He may have already held the office of Treasurer of the Bishopric of Basel.\n\nAdalbert I was married to a noblewoman named Adelaide. Her parentage is unknown. They had the following children:\n\n"}
{"id": "46254491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46254491", "title": "Administrative Monetary Penalty", "text": "Administrative Monetary Penalty\n\nAn Administrative Monetary Penalty is a civil penalty imposed by a regulator for a contravention of an Act, regulation or by-law. It is issued upon discovery of an unlawful event, and is due and payable subject only to any rights of review that may be available under the AMP's implementing scheme. It is regulatory in nature, rather than criminal, and is intended to secure compliance with a regulatory scheme, and it can be employed with the use of other administrative sanctions, such as demerit points and license suspensions.\n\nAMPs differ from ordinary fines, such as those for parking tickets, in that, under the relevant legislation:\n\n\nLegislation enabling general schemes of fixed and variable monetary penaltiesin addition to other sanctionshas been introduced through Part 3 of the \"Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008\".\n\nUnder the \"Road Traffic Act 1991\"and subsequently expanded under part 6 of the \"Traffic Management Act 2004\"AMPs known as \"penalty charge notices\" have replaced fixed penalty notices where local authorities have adopted schemes of decriminalised parking enforcement. In some areas such as London, the challenge process for PCNs can be completed online, via the Internet.\n\nIn \"Guindon v Canada\", the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that AMPs are generally considered to be administrative in nature and thus not subject to the legal protections provided under s.11 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\". They are held not to arise from criminal proceedings, as \"the purpose ... is to promote honesty and deter gross negligence\" and \"it is rational that the state would only wish to impose a penalty on those who engage in misconduct knowingly, recklessly, or with a particular intention.\" They also do not attract a true penal consequence, as \"high administrative monetary penalties [are] required to encourage compliance with the administrative regime. The relevant question is not the amount of the penalty in absolute terms, it is whether the amount serves regulatory rather than penal purposes.\"\n\nHowever, normal standards of judicial review continue to apply. In \"Guindon\", the Federal Court of Appeal provided more guidance in its judgment as to when an administrative penalty would be considered disproportionate. The Ontario Court of Appeal has given a reasoned evaluation for a monetary penalty that arose from a securities proceeding, and the Administrative Tribunal of Quebec has recognized that a person can bring forward the \"reasonable, prudent and diligent person\" defence that exists in civil law against the imposition of AMPs.\n\nThe Government of Canada has introduced various AMP schemes on a sector-by-sector basis, although some agencies prefer to pursue ticketing schemes for specified summary offences, notably under the \"Contraventions Act\".\n\nOntario is considering creating a new AMP system to address minor offences that are currently prosecuted under its \"Provincial Offences Act\". The Attorney General of Ontario has requested input into the new system being proposed. In response, some have suggested that, with proper planning, an online system would be more cost-efficient and promote easier access to justice for people in rural areas and for those with language barriers. However, some people fear that a new system will be cumbersome and will not allow access to justice.\n\n"}
{"id": "771284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=771284", "title": "Agüeybaná I", "text": "Agüeybaná I\n\nAgüeybaná (died 1510) was one of the two principal and most powerful \"caciques\" (chiefs) of the Taíno people in \"Borikén\" (Puerto Rico) when the Spanish first arrived on the island on November 19, 1493.\n\n\"Agüeybana\", which has been interpreted by 19th and 20th century authors as meaning \"The Great Sun\", was the hereditary title shared by the family that ruled the theocratic monarchy of Borikén, governing the hierarchy over the rest of the regional chiefs or caciques. Like other nobiliary recognitions within Taíno culture, it was passed down through the maternal bloodline. The Spanish settlers Hispanicized the title to be the equivalent of the European concept of kings, with contemporary writers such as Juan de Castellanos and Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés employing the title of \"Rey Agüeybana\" (English: \"King Agüeybana\") when referring to the second monarch to lead the Taíno during the 1510s. By the 1800s, the terms \"king\" and \"cacique\" were used exchangeably by both local and Spanish authors, but a resurgence in the interest concerning Taíno history during the 20th century led to the popularization of native words and the latter term gained more lexical prominence.\n\nAgüeybaná received the Spanish conquistador Juan Ponce de León upon his arrival in 1508. According to an old Taíno tradition, Agüeybaná practiced the \"guatiao,\" a Taíno ritual in which he and Juan Ponce de León became friends and exchanged names. Ponce de León then baptized the cacique's mother into Christianity and renamed her Inés.\n\nThe cacique joined Ponce de León in the exploration of the island. After this had been accomplished, Agüeybaná accompanied the conquistador to the island of \"La Española\" (what today comprises the nations of the Dominican Republic and Haiti), where he was well received by the Governor Nicolás de Ovando. Agüeybaná's actions helped to maintain the peace between the Taíno and the Spaniards, a peace which was to be short-lived.\nThe hospitality and friendly treatment that the Spaniards received from Agüeybaná made it easy for the Spaniards to betray and conquer the island. After a short period of peace, the Taínos were forced to work in the island's gold mines and in the construction of forts as slaves. Many Taínos died as a result of the cruel treatment which they received.\n\nUpon Agüeybaná's death in 1510, his brother Güeybaná (better known as Agüeybaná II) became the most powerful Cacique in the island. Agüeybaná II was troubled by the treatment of his people by the Spanish and attacked them in battle. The Taínos were ultimately defeated at the Battle of Yagüecas.\n\nAfter this, Taínos in Puerto Rico either abandoned the island, were forced to labor as slaves, or were killed by the Spaniards. Many succumbed to the smallpox epidemic that attacked the islanders in 1519.\n\nAgüeybaná is admired in Puerto Rico for his dedication to his people and attempting to keep the peace. Puerto Rico has named many public buildings and streets after him:\n\nMany songs and poems, by poets such as Juan Antonio Corretjer, among others, have been written about Agüeybaná.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28298315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28298315", "title": "Benjamin Agus", "text": "Benjamin Agus\n\nBenjamin Agus (fl. 1662) was an English divine, and was one of the most distinguished of the earlier vindicators of the nonconformists, and as such second only to Richard Baxter, and hardly second to Vincent Alsop.\n\nHis \"Vindication of Nonconformity\" and \"Antidote to Dr. Stillingfleet's Unreasonableness of Separation; being a defence of the former\", have been allowed to slip out of sight; but they hold in them all that needs to be said in behalf of nonconformity. From the former, these words of historic importance may be quoted: ‘A little before the Black Bartholomew (Act of Uniformity and ejection of the two thousand in 1662) a noble lord enquired whether I would conform or not? I answered: “Such things were enjoined as I could not swallow, and therefore should be necessitated to sound a retreat.” His lordship seemed much concerned for me, and used many arguments to reconcile me to a compliance, but perceiving me unmoved, at last said with a sigh: “I wish it had been otherwise; but they were resolved either to reproach you or undo you.”’ Another great lord, when speaking to him about the hard terms of conformity, said: ‘I confess I should scarcely do so much for the Bible as they require for the Common Prayer’—meaning doubtless, explains Palmer, ‘subscribing assent and consent to all and every thing in our present translation, or copy of the original. What wise man would do it?’ He has been identified with Benjamin Agas, native of Wymondham, Norfolk, who entered Corpus College, Cambridge, in 1639, proceeded M.A in 1657, and was described in his will, dated 21 May 1683 that he was ejected from Chenies, Buckinghamshire.\n"}
{"id": "3804115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3804115", "title": "Bruno Manser", "text": "Bruno Manser\n\nBruno Manser (25 August 1954 – 10 March 2005) was a Swiss environmental activist. From 1984 to 1990, he stayed with the Penan tribe in Sarawak, Malaysia, organising several blockades against timber companies. After he emerged from the forests in 1990, he engaged in public activism for rainforest preservation and the human rights of indigenous peoples, especially the Penan, which brought him into conflict with the Malaysian government. He also founded the Swiss non-governmental organization (NGO) Bruno Manser Fonds in 1991. He disappeared during his last journey to Sarawak in May 2000 and is presumed dead.\n\nBruno Manser was born in Basel on 25 August 1954 in a family of three girls and two boys.\n\nDuring his younger days, Manser was an independent thinker. His parents wanted him to become a doctor, and he studied medicine informally. He completed his baccalaureate, the first in his family to do so.\n\nManser spent three months in Lucerne prison when he was 19 years old because, as an ardent follower of non-violent ideologies espoused by Mahatma Gandhi (Satyagraha) he refused to participate in Switzerland's compulsory military service. After leaving prison in 1973, he worked as a sheep and cow herder at various Swiss Alpine pastures for 12 years. During this time, he became interested in handicrafts, therapeutics, and speleology. He laid bricks, carved leather, kept bees, and wove, dyed, and cut his own clothes and shoes. He also regularly pursued mountaineering and technical climbing.\n\nAt the age of 30, he went to Borneo, looking to live a simpler life.\n\nIn 1983, Manser went to the Malaysian state of Terengganu and stayed with a family. In 1984, while learning more about the rainforests, Manser learned of a nomadic tribe known as the Penan tribe. After learning more about the tribe, he decided to attempt to live with the Penan tribe for a few years and traveled to the East Malaysian state of Sarawak in 1984 on a tourist visa.\n\nIn Malaysia, he first joined an English caving expedition to explore Gunung Mulu National Park. After the expedition, he stepped deeper into the interior jungles of Sarawak, intending to find the \"deep essence of humanity\" and \"the people who are still living close to their nature.\" However, he quickly became lost and ran out of food while exploring the jungle, then fell ill after eating a poisonous palm heart.\n\nAfter these setbacks, Manser finally found Penan nomadic tribes near the headwaters of the Limbang river at Long Seridan in May 1984. Initially, the Penan people tried to ignore him. After a while, the Penans accepted him as one of their family members.\n\nIn August 1984, Manser went to Kota Kinabalu, Sabah to obtain a visa to visit Indonesia. On the Indonesian visa, he entered Kalimantan, then illegally crossed the border back into Long Seridan, Sarawak.\n\nHis Malaysian visa expired on 31 December 1984.\n\nManser learned about survival skills in the jungle and familiarized himself with the Penan's culture and language. The Penan tribal leader in Upper Limbang, named Along Sega, became Manser's mentor. During his stay with the Penan tribe, Manser adopted their way of life. He dressed in a loincloth, hunted with a blowgun, and ate primates, snakes, and sago. Manser's decision to live as a member of the Penan tribe was ridiculed in the West, and he was dismissed as a \"White Tarzan\". Within the Penan tribe, however, Manser was known as \"Laki Penan\" (Penan Man), having earned the respect of the Penan tribe that adopted him.\n\nManser created notebooks that were richly illustrated with drawings, notes, and 10,000 photographs during his six-year stay from 1984 to 1990 with the Penan people. Some of his sketches include cicada wing patterns, how to carry a gibbon with a stick, and how drill holes on a blowpipe. These notebooks were later published by Christoph Merian Verlag press in Basel. Manser also created audio recordings of oral histories told by Penan elders and translated them. He claimed that the Penan people were never argumentative or violent during his time with the Penan tribe.\n\nIn 1988, Bruno Manser tried to reach the summit of Bukit Batu Lawi but was unsuccessful, finding himself hanging on a rope without anything to grab on for 24 hours. In 1989, Manser was bitten by a red tailed pit viper but he was able to treat the snake bite himself. He also got a malaria infection while living in the jungles.\n\nUnfortunately, deforestation of Sarawak's primeval forests started during Manser's stay with the Penan tribe. As a result, the Penans suffered from reduced vegetation, contaminated drinking water, fewer animals available for hunting, and the desecration of their heritage sites. Manser worked with Along Sega to teach the Penan tribe how to organize road blockades against advancing loggers. Manser organised his first blockade in September 1985.\n\nManser gave many lectures in Switzerland and abroad, making connections to people within the European Union (EU) and the United Nations (UN). As an activist, he visited American and African jungles, staying in various locations for a few weeks.\n\nHe returned almost every year after leaving the Penan tribe to follow up with the logging activities and to provide assistance to the tribe, often entering these areas illegally, crossing the border with Brunei and Kalimantan, Indonesia. He discovered that logging conglomerates such as Samling, Rimbunan Hijau, and the WTK group of companies continued their operations in Sarawak rainforests. As a result, Manser organised the Voices for the Borneo Rainforests World Tour after he left the Sarawak forests in 1990. Manser, Kelabit activist Anderson Mutang Urud, and two Penan tribe members travelled from Australia to North America, Europe, and Japan.\n\nOn 17 July 1991, Manser climbed unaided to the top of 30-foot high lamp post outside of the G7 media centre in London. After reaching the top, he unrolled a banner that displayed a message about the plight of Sarawak rainforests. He chained himself to the lamp post for two and a half hours. His protest also coincided with protests by Earth First! and the London Rainforest Action Group. Police used a hoist to reach the top of the lamp post and cut his chains. Manser climbed down the lamp post without force at 1:40 PM. He was then taken to the Bow street police station and held until the G7 summit ended at 6:30 PM, when he was released without being charged with an offense.\n\nIn 1991, Manser set up Bruno Manser Fonds (BMF), a fund designed to help conserve the rainforests and the indigenous population in Sarawak. Manser ran the fund from his home at Heuberg 25, Basel, Switzerland. In 2008, BMF was moved to Socinstrasse 37.\n\nIn June 1992 he parachuted into a crowded stadium during the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\n\nIn December 1992, Manser led a 20-day hunger strike in front of the Marubeni Corporation headquarters in Tokyo, Japan.\n\nIn 1993, Manser went on a 60-day hunger strike at the Federal Palace of Switzerland ('\"Bundeshaus\") to press the Swiss parliament on enforcing a ban on tropical timber imports and mandatory declarations of timber products. The hunger strike was supported by 37 organisations and political parties. Manser only stopped the hunger strike after his mother requested that he do so. After Manser's disappearance, the Swiss parliament finally adopted the Declaration of Timber Products on 1 October 2010, with a transition period allowed until the end 2011.\n\nIn 1995, Manser went to Congo rainforests to document the effects of wars and logging on Ituri pygmies.\n\nIn 1996, in the German-language programme \"fünf vor zwölf\" (At the eleventh hour), Manser and Jacques Christinet used auxiliary cable to drop themselves down 800 meters onto the Klein Matterhorn aerial cable car and hung sizable banners there. They reached the dangerous speed of 140 kilometers per hour while riding on a self-made rider with steel wheels and ball bearings.\n\nIn 1997, Manser and his friend Jacques Christinet tried to enter Peninsular Malaysia from Singapore to fly a motorised hang-glider during the 1998 Commonwealth Games in Kuala Lumpur. However, he was recognised at the border and denied entry into Malaysia. They then decided to swim across the Straits of Johor into Malaysia but later abandoned the plan, because it involved a lengthy 25-kilometer swim and a passage through a swamp across the straits. They planned an alternative route, opting to row a boat from an island in Indonesia into Sarawak, but Bruno Manser Foundation (BMF) in Switzerland received a warning from Malaysian embassy, warning of the consequences for such an act.\n\nIn 1998, Manser and his friend Jacques Christinet travelled to Brunei and swam across the 300-metre wide Limbang river at night. Manser's friend was almost fatally injured by drifting logs along the river. They spent 3 weeks in Sarawak hiding from the police. During that time period, they attempted to order four tons of 25-centimeter nails for the Penan tribe to hammer into the tree trunks. These nails could have caused serious injuries to the loggers when the embedded nails inevitably came into contact with chainsaws.\n\nAfter hearing of Manser's actions, Al Gore condemned logging activities in Sarawak. Prince Charles also described the treatment for the Penan tribe as \"genocide.\" The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) and the National Geographic Channel produced documentaries about the Penan tribe, and Penan stories were also featured on Primetime Live. Universal Studios started to develop an action-adventure horror script where the Penan tribe used their forest wisdom to save the world from catastrophe. Warner Bros also developed a script on Bruno Manser story. The Penan tribe also received coverage in Newsweek, Time, and The New Yorker.\n\nManser's actions drew anger from Malaysian authorities, and he was nearly arrested in 1986. Manser also became persona non grata (an unwelcome person) in Malaysia. A reported bounty for his capture ranged from US$30,000 to US$50,000 has been circulated by word-of-mouth, but the source of the bounty is unknown. By 1990, Malaysia declared Bruno Manser as the \"number one enemy of the state\" and sent special units to search for him. Using a forged passport and styling his hair differently, Manser returned to Switzerland in 1990 to inform the public about the situation in Sarawak through the Swiss media.\n\nBruno Manser was nearly imprisoned twice in Sarawak, but managed to avoid being jailed. He was first arrested on 10 April 1986 after being spotted by police inspector Lores Matios. While on holiday at Long Napir, Limbang, Matios arrested Manser and brought him to Limbang police station. Manser was not handcuffed, as the inspector did not carry them while on holiday. During the 90-minute ride to Limbang, the Land Rover that carried Manser came close to running out of petrol. Manser jumped out of the Land Rover and dived into a local river as the vehicle was being refilled with petrol. Matios shouted at him and used his pistol to fire two shots at Manser. Manser lost all of the notebooks he had been working on for the previous four years. Bruno Manser was nearly arrested for a second time on 25 March 1990 after meeting the same police inspector on a flight from Miri, Malaysia to Kuching. The police inspector was on his way to take a law exam in Kuching. However, the inspector did not arrest Manser.\n\nThe prime minister of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad blamed Manser for disrupting law and order. Mahathir also wrote a letter to Manser, telling him that it was \"about time that you stop your arrogance and your intolerable European superiority. You are no better than the Penan.\"\n\nIn March 1992, Mahathir wrote another letter to Manser:\nThe Sarawak government defended its logging policy by stating that revenue from timber sales is needed to feed more than 250,000 of the state population. Sarawak chief minister Abdul Taib Mahmud said, \"It is hoped that outsiders will not interfere in our internal affairs, especially people like Bruno Manser. The Sarawak government has nothing to hide. Ours is an open liberal society.\" Sarawak Minister of Housing and Public Health, James Wong said that \"We don't want them [the Penan people] running around [in jungles] like animals. No one has the ethical right to deprive the Penans of the right to assimilation into Malaysian society.\" The Sarawak government tightened the entry of foreign environmentalists, journalists, and film crews into the state. Sarawak government also allowed logging companies to hire criminal gangs to subdue the indigenous people.\n\nIn mid-1998, Manser offered an end of hostilities with the Sarawak government if Sarawak chief minister Abdul Taib Mahmud would be willing to cooperate with him to create a biosphere around the Penan tribe's territory. Manser also wanted the government to forgive him for breaking Malaysian immigration laws. The offer was denied. His successive attempts to establish communications with the chief minister failed.\n\nManser planned to deliver a lamb named \"Gumperli\" to Taib Mahmud by air as a symbol of reconciliation with the chief minister during the Hari Raya Aidilfitri celebration. However, the Malaysian consulate at Geneva, Switzerland pressured airlines not to transport the lamb to Sarawak. Manser later carried the lamb with him on a plane and parachuted over the United Nations Office at Geneva, hoping to bring international attention to the Sarawak rainforests problem.\n\nIn March 1999, Manser successfully passed Kuching immigration by disguising himself in a business suit, carrying a briefcase, and wearing a badly knotted tie. On 29 March 1999, he flew a motorised paraglider, carrying a toy lamb knitted by himself while wearing a T-shirt with the image of a sheep and made a few turns above Taib's residence in Kuching, Sarawak. There were 10 Penan tribe members waiting on the ground to greet Manser. At 11:30 AM, he landed the glider beside a road just outside Taib's residence and was immediately arrested. He was then transported to Kuala Lumpur on Malaysia Airlines flight MH 2683. He briefly stayed at a prison in Kuala Lumpur. He was seen playing with his knitted toy lamb by his jailers. He was later deported back to Switzerland.\n\nBy 2000, Manser admitted that his efforts did not bring positive changes to Sarawak. His success rate in Sarawak was \"less than zero\" and he was deeply saddened by the result. On 15 February 2000, just before his last trip to Sarawak, Manser said that, \"[t]hrough his (Taib) logging license policies, Taib Mahmud is personally responsible for the destruction of nearly all Sarawak rainforests in one generation.\"\n\nOn 15 February 2000, Manser left to visit his Penan nomadic friends via the jungle paths of Kalimantan, Indonesia, accompanied by BMF secretary John Kuenzli and a film crew. After a period of time, the film crew and John Kuenzli left Manser in Kalimantan jungles. At the time, Manser was still writing postcards to his friends.\n\nAfter the film crew and the secretary left, Manser continued his journey with another friend who knew the way around the territory. The trip continued for two weeks, crossing mountains and rivers on foot and by boat. Manser slept on a hammock while his friend slept on the ground. On 18 May, they reached the Sarawak/Kalimantan border, spending their final night there. Manser asked his friend to carry a postcard back to his girlfriend in Switzerland. According to his friend, Manser looked healthy when they parted ways. Manser complained about diarrhea and a broken rib in the postcard.\n\nAccording to BMF secretary John Kuenzli, Manser crossed the Sarawak/Kalimantan border on 22 May with the help of a local guide. His last known communication was a letter mailed to his girlfriend, Charlotte, while hiding in Bario. In the letter, Manser said he was very tired while waiting for the sun to set before continuing his journey along the logging roads. The letter was deposited at the Bario post office and reached Switzerland with a Malaysian stamp but without a post office stamp. Manser was last seen carrying a 30-kilogram backpack by his Penan friend, Paleu, and Paleu's son on 25 May 2000. They accompanied Manser until they saw Bukit Batu Lawi (2000-metre limestone pinnacle in Sarawak). Manser stated his intention to climb the mountain alone and requested Paleu to leave him there. Manser has not been seen since.\n\nBMF and the Penan tribe tried to search for Manser without any success. Areas around the Limbang river were searched by the Penan people. Penan expedition teams tracked Manser to his last sleeping place. They followed Manser's machete cuts into the thick forests until the trail reached the swamp at the foot of Bukit Batu Lawi. There was no trace of him in the swamp, going back from the swamp, or trace of anyone else coming into the area. BMF sent a helicopter to circle the limestone pinnacles. However, none of the search teams were willing to scale the last 100 metres of steep limestone that formed the peak of Batu Lawi. It is possible that Manser fell down the side of the mountain but neither his body nor his belongings have been found. However, two local guides who brought Manser across the jungles of Sarawak were found. In desperation, fortune tellers and Penan necromancers were called. All of them agreed Bruno Manser was still alive. On 18 November 2000, BMF requested that the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA) search for Bruno Manser. Investigations were carried out at the Swiss Consulate in Kuala Lumpur and the Swiss Honorary Consulate in Kuching.\n\nIn January 2002, hundreds of Penan tribe members organised a \"tawai\" ceremony to celebrate Manser. The Penan people refer to Manser as \"Laki Tawang\" (man who has become lost) or \"Laki e'h metat\" (man who has disappeared), rather than his name, because speaking the names of the dead is taboo in Penan culture.\n\nOn 18 Nov 2001, 18 months after his disappearance, he was awarded the International Society for Human Rights prize for Switzerland.\n\nAfter search expeditions proved fruitless, a civil court in Basel-Stadt declared Manser to be legally dead on 10 March 2005. On 8 May 2010, a memorial service was held in Elisabethen church, Basel to mark the 10th anniversary of his disappearance. Roughly 500 people attended the church service.\n\nTo celebrate Manser's 60th birthday on 25 August 2014, a species of goblin spider that was discovered by a Dutch-Swiss research expedition in Pulong Tau National Park, Sarawak in the 1990s is now named after Manser: \"Aposphragisma brunomanseri\".\n\n\nManser made a film documentary:\n\nSeveral documentary films have been made about him. They are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39804972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39804972", "title": "Central City Red Zone", "text": "Central City Red Zone\n\nThe Central City Red Zone, also known as the CBD Red Zone, was a public exclusion zone in the Christchurch Central City implemented after the 22 February 2011 Christchurch earthquake. After February 2013, it was officially renamed the CBD Rebuild Zone by government agencies, but remained known as the Red Zone. It gradually shrank in size and the last cordons were removed on 30 June 2013, 859 days after the earthquake.\n\nThe February 2011 earthquake caused widespread damage across Christchurch, especially in the central city and eastern suburbs, with damage exacerbated by buildings and infrastructure already being weakened by the 4 September 2010 earthquake and its aftershocks. The earthquake, which struck at lunchtime on a weekday, caused devastation in the central city, with two large office buildings having collapsed (the CTV Building and the PGC House), many historic building façades had collapsed into the streets, two buses were crushed by falling façades in Colombo Street, and many people in City Mall were trapped by fallen masonry. A total of 185 people died in the February earthquake, 169 died in the central zone alone: 115 in the CTV building, 18 at PGC House, 8 on buses in Colombo Street and 28 others in various CBD locations.\n\nAuthorities cleared the central city of people, established a cordon on the day of the earthquake and denied access. The day after the earthquake, the government declared a state of national emergency, which stayed in force until 30 April 2011.\n\nPost-Christchurch had a confusing colour-coding applied, with the same colour meaning different things in different areas. The Central City Red Zone is not to be confused with the Residential Red Zone. In the central city, it described the area that was cordoned off after the earthquake. In the eastern suburbs, the colour red refers to land that is subject to liquefaction or the related effect of lateral spreading and that is deemed uneconomic to repair; with over 7,000 properties being purchased by The Crown under a voluntary yet coercive scheme. In the Port Hills, red zoning refers to land where it is not economic to protect buildings that are at risk from rockfall, or land that is unstable due to its proximity to cliffs, with The Crown offering to buy the land. 510 properties are zoned red in the Port Hills.\n\nAs explained below, the Central City Red Zone was further divided, with an outer orange zone accessible to residents. In the eastern suburbs, the orange zone was that land that had yet to be assessed and zoned (either green, blue, or red). There was no orange zone in the Port Hills, though, and land that had yet to be classified was zoned white. A white zone also applied in the central city initially, as geotechnical assessments were not carried out there for many months.\n\nThe Avon Loop, which is located in the central city, further adds to the colour confusion. Until 13 March 2011, the Avon Loop was in the orange zone of the Central City Red Zone. When the residential land zoning was first announced in June 2011, the Avon Loop was zoned orange. Much of the Avon Loop was eventually zoned red, and this is the only land in the central city that was initially in the Central City Red Zone which later became part of the Residential Red Zone.\n\nAn initial cordon was established by Police and the New Zealand Army around the perimeter along the central city along Bealey Avenue, Fitzgerald Avenue, Moorhouse Avenue, Antigua Street, Rolleston Avenue, and Park Terrace. Within days, cordon checkpoints were also manned by Australian Police (mostly New South Wales Police Force and Australian Federal Police) and Singapore Armed Forces.\n\nThe CBD fringe is in large areas of residential nature, so the initial cordon saw many residents within the restricted area. At the last census in 2006, some 7,600 people lived within the three census zones (Avon Loop, Cathedral Square, and Hagley Park) that make up the central city. A triangular area defined by Antigua Street, Hagley Avenue, and Moorhouse Avenue in the south-west of the central city was outside of the cordon. Not much of that area is residential, though, as large areas are occupied by Christchurch Hospital, Hagley Community College, and many industrial uses. Hence, some 7,000 residents were initially affected by the red zone. The cordoned area was thus further subdivided, with an outer orange zone accessible to residents, but no access to the inner red zone other than people authorised first by Civil Defence and later by the Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority (CERA). Residents living in the inner red zone did not have access to their buildings and had to find accommodation elsewhere.\n\nA vehicle recovery programme was initiated by Police around 10 March 2011. Cars and bicycles were transferred to a secured compound within Hagley Park, from where vehicle owners could retrieve their vehicles.\n\nOn 21 March 2011, about 100 business owners protested at the Art Gallery, the temporary headquarters of Civil Defence, about lack of access to critical business property (e.g. computer servers, merchandise, cash) as well as a lack of communication, with some buildings having been demolished without any prior communication. They demanded to speak to the National Controller of Civil Defence, John Hamilton. When Hamilton would not see them, some of the business owners breached the inner cordon in protest by simply walking past soldiers manning the entrances, but within minutes, Police started arresting the protesters and pushed protesters back outside the inner cordon. The next day, the Government issued a press release, with Civil Defence Minister John Carter stating that it was \"foolish to breach the cordon around the red zone. People died behind that cordon.\"\n\nThe employment of the New Zealand Army finished on 28 June 2013, after the army having served for 858 days. The cordon was removed two days later on 30 June 2013. Many individual buildings are still fenced off, as they are deemed unstable by the authorities; this includes the Anglican Cathedral in Cathedral Square.\n\nOver time, the role of the army personnel at the cordon entry points changed from simply restricting access to become guides to tourists and locals alike, with even locals not knowing their way around any longer as so many landmarks have been demolished.\n\nThe first time that CERA set a target date for the removal of the red zone cordons was in September 2011, when a 1 April 2012 removal was announced. \n\nA red zone removal by 28 June 2013 was first announced in March 2013; the ultimate removal date was 30 June.\n\n"}
{"id": "2835239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2835239", "title": "Clavileño", "text": "Clavileño\n\nClavileño the Swift is a fictional wooden horse, notable in both European and Near Eastern folklore, also appearing in chapters 40 and 41 of the second part of the adventures of Don Quixote. It is governed by a pin in its forehead.\nDon Quixote and Sancho Panza are tricked into using Clavileño, believing they have flown blindfolded and have controlled the horse with a peg in its head. The \"Dueña Dolorida\" (Countess Trifaldi) asserts that she and her ladies will be free of their charmed beards if knight and squire fly on the magical horse, sent by the sorcerer Malambruno. In reality the rocking horse is inanimate and goes nowhere, meanwhile explosives are planted near it to simulate a crash landing. Sancho Panza later goes on to say that he lifted his blindfold while \"in flight\" and saw the sky.\n\nIn Spanish, \"peg\" is \"clavija\" and \"wood\", \"leño\", hence the name.\n\nClavileño is shown by some units of the Spanish Air Force in its badges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24074123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24074123", "title": "Cortisol awakening response", "text": "Cortisol awakening response\n\nThe cortisol awakening response (CAR) is an increase of about 50% in cortisol levels occurring 20–30 minutes \"after\" awakening in the morning in some people. This rise is superimposed upon the late-night rise in cortisol which occurs \"before\" awakening. While its purpose is uncertain, it may be linked to the hippocampus' preparation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) in order to face anticipated stress.\n\nShortly after awakening, a sharp 38–75% (average 50%) increase occurs in the blood level of cortisol in about 77% of healthy people of all ages. The average level of salivary cortisol upon waking is roughly 15 nmol/l; 30 minutes later it may be 23 nmol/l, though there are wide variations. The cortisol awakening response reaches a maximum approximately 30 minutes after awakening though it may still be heightened by 34% an hour after waking. The pattern of this response to waking is relatively stable for any individual. Twin studies show its pattern is largely genetically determined since there is a heritability of 0.40 for the mean cortisol increase after awakening and 0.48 for the area under the cortisol rise curve.\n\nNormally, the highest cortisol secretion happens in the second half of the night with peak cortisol production occurring in the early morning. Following this, cortisol levels decline throughout the day with lowest levels during the first half of the night. Cortisol awakening response is independent of this circadian variation in HPA axis activity; it is superimposed upon the daily rhythm of HPA axis activity; and it seems to be linked specifically to the event of awakening.\n\nCortisol awakening response provides an easy measure of the reactivity capacity of the HPA axis.\n\n\n\nCortisol awakening response is larger for those:\n\nCortisol is released from the adrenal glands following activation by ACTH release from the pituitary. The ACTH release creating the cortisol awakening response is strongly inhibited after intake of a low-dose dexamethasone. This is a synthetic glucocorticoid and this inhibition allows the detection of the presence of negative feedback from circulating cortisol that controls to ACTH-secreting cells of the pituitary.\n\nIn the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis the pituitary release of ACTH is regulated by the hypothalamus. This occurs through the hypothalamus's production of the hypophysiotropic hormone corticotropin-releasing hormone, the production of which is subject to circadian influence and the day/night cycle. In the cortisol awakening response, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is controlled by the hippocampus. For example, cortisol awakening response is absent in those with bilateral and unilateral hippocampus damage and hippocampal atrophy. Those with severe amnesia, and thus with presumed damage to the temporal lobe, also do not have it. Those with a larger hippocampus have a greater response.\n\nIt's plausible also that the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the light-sensitive biological clock, plays a role in cortisol awakening response regulation.\n\nThe function of cortisol awakening response is unknown but it has been suggested to link with a stress-related preparation in regard to the upcoming day by the hippocampus. One hypothesis is: \"that the cortisol rise after awakening may accompany an activation of prospective memory representations at awakening enabling individual's orientation about the self in time and space as well as anticipation of demands of the upcoming day... it is tempting to speculate that for the CAR, anticipation of these upcoming demands may be essential in regulating the CAR magnitude for the particular day. The hippocampus is, besides its established role in long-term memory consolidation, involved in the formation of a cohesive construct and representation of the outside world within the central nervous system processing information about space, time and relationships of environmental cues. This puts the hippocampus in a pivotal position for the regulation of the CAR.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3100304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3100304", "title": "Dark tourism", "text": "Dark tourism\n\nDark tourism (also black tourism or grief tourism) has been defined as tourism involving travel to places historically associated with death and tragedy. More recently, it was suggested that the concept should also include reasons tourists visit that site, since the site's attributes alone may not make a visitor a \"dark tourist\". Thanatourism, derived from the ancient Greek word \"thanatos\" for the personification of death, refers more specifically to peaceful death; it is used in fewer contexts than the terms \"dark tourism\" and \"grief tourism\". The main attraction to dark locations is their historical value rather than their associations with death and suffering.\n\nWhile there is a long tradition of people visiting recent and ancient settings of death, such as travel to gladiator games in the Roman colosseum, attending public executions by decapitation, and visiting the catacombs, this practice has been studied academically only relatively recently.\nTravel writers were the first to describe their tourism to deadly places. P. J. O'Rourke called his travel to Warsaw, Managua, and Belfast in 1988 'holidays in hell', or Chris Rojek talking about 'black-spot' tourism in 1993 or the 'milking the macabre'.\n\nAcademic attention to the subject originated in Glasgow, Scotland: The term 'dark tourism' was coined in 1996 by Lennon and Foley, two faculty members of the Department of Hospitality, Tourism & Leisure Management at Glasgow Caledonian University, and the term 'thanatourism' was first mentioned by A. V. Seaton in 1996, then Professor of Tourism Marketing at the University of Strathclyde.\n\nAs of 2014, there have been many studies on definitions, labels, and subcategorizations, such as Holocaust tourism and slavery-heritage tourism, and the term continues to be molded outside academia by authors of travel literature. There is very little empirical research on the perspective of the dark tourist. \nDark tourism has been formally studied from three main perspectives by a variety of different disciplines:\n\nScholars in this interdisciplinary field have examined many different aspects. Lennon and Foley expanded their original idea in their first book, deploring that \"tact and taste do not prevail over economic considerations” and that the \"blame for transgressions cannot lie solely on the shoulders of the proprietors, but also upon those of the tourists, for without their demand there would be no need to supply.\"\n\nPhilip Stone and Richard Sharpley from the Department of Tourism and Leisure Management of the Lancashire Business School at the University of Central Lancashire, UK have looked through the lens of the market place at dark tourism; they have coined the term 'product of dark tourism', and discuss its supply, demand, and consumption by the 'dark tourist'. Stone and Sharpley have published prolifically in this area, although not conducted empirical research, and founded an Institute for Dark Tourism. \nIn 2005 Stone suggested that \"within contemporary society people regularly consume death and suffering in touristic form, seemingly in the guise of education and/or entertainment\", and sounded a call for research on \"Dark Tourism Consumption\" to \"establish consumer behavior models that incorporate contemporary socio-cultural aspects of death and dying.\" In a 2006 paper Stone discussed \"the dark tourism product range\", arguing that \"certain suppliers [of dark tourism] may [...] share particular product features, perceptions and characteristics, which can then be loosely translated into various 'shades of darkness'.\" His typology of death-related tourist sites consists of seven different types, ordered from light to dark: dark fun factories, dark exhibitions, dark dungeons, dark resting places, dark shrines, dark conflict sites and dark camps of genocide.\n\nIn 2008 Stone and Sharpley hypothesized, that coming together in places associated with grief and death in dark tourism represents immorality, so that morality may be communicated.\n\nWhether a tourist attraction is educational or exploitative is defined by both its operators and its visitors. Tourism operators motivated by greed can \"milk the macabre\" or reexamine tragedies for a learning experience. Tourists consuming dark tourism products may desecrate a place and case studies are needed to probe who gains and loses.\n\nThanatourism and slum-tourism have been described as re-interpreting the pastime according to the needs of financial elite.\n\nChris Hedges described the \"Alcatraz narrative as presented by the National Park Service\" as \"whitewashing\", because it \"...ignores the savagery and injustice of America's system of mass incarceration\". By omitting challenging details, the park service furthers a \"Disneyfication\", per Hedges.\n\nDestinations of dark tourism include: castles and battlefields such as Culloden in Scotland and Bran Castle and Poienari Castle in Romania; former prisons such as Beaumaris Prison in Anglesey, Wales and the Jack the Ripper exhibition in the London Dungeon; sites of natural disasters or man made disasters, such as Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park in Japan, Chernobyl in Ukraine and the commercial activity at Ground Zero in New York one year after September 11, 2001. It also includes sites of human atrocities and genocide, such as the Auschwitz concentration camp in Poland, the Nanjing Massacre Memorial Hall in China, the Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum in Cambodia; the sites of the Jeju Uprising in South Korea and the Spirit Lake Internment Camp Centre near La Ferme, Quebec as an example of Canada's internment operations of 1914–1920.\n\nIn Bali \"death and funeral rites have become commodified for tourism ..., where enterprising businesses begin arranging tourist vans and sell tickets as soon as they hear someone is dying.\" In the US, visitors can tour the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington D.C. \"with an identity card which matches their age and gender with that of a name and photo of a real holocaust victim. Against a backdrop of video interpretation portraying killing squads in action, the pseudo holocaust victim enters a personal ID into monitors as they wander around the attraction to discover how their real-life counterpart is faring.\"\n\nIn late 2017, the online journal \"Current Issues in Dark Tourism Research\" was launched. The aim of the online journal is to bring affordable 'dark tourism' scholarship direct to students, researchers, and the media. The journal is unique in that it pays royalty fees to authors and, as a result, is a new model for contemporary academic publishing. Authors and scholars may submit their own related research for publication in the journal. A broad range of 'dark tourism and difficult heritage' research will be available in the journal, in the form of articles, case studies, and commentaries. The editor of the journal is Dr Philip Stone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6589264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6589264", "title": "Death of Kevin Gately", "text": "Death of Kevin Gately\n\nKevin Gately (18 September 1953 – 15 June 1974) was a second year student of mathematics at the University of Warwick who died as a result of head injuries received in the Red Lion Square disorders in London. He was the first person to die in a public demonstration in Great Britain for at least 55 years, since the British Army shot two looters dead in Liverpool during the riots associated with a police strike in August 1919.\n\nGately was born in England to parents of Irish descent. He had red hair and was approximately 6' 9\" tall; contemporary photos show him standing out above the crowd because of his exceptional height. He became a mathematics student at Warwick University, and was in his second year in June 1974, three months before his 21st birthday.\n\nHe was not a member of any political group or party, and had no experience of demonstrations before Red Lion Square, although he was aware of the nature of the demonstration against the National Front and wished to take part. His girlfriend also attended the demonstration.\n\nThe Red Lion Square disorders arose from a counter-demonstration against a National Front march through the West End of London to a meeting at Conway Hall, in the north east corner of Red Lion Square in Bloomsbury near Holborn Underground station, on Saturday 15 June 1974.\n\nThe National Front had been formed in 1967, and by 1974 its racist policies were gathering some electoral support, with the National Front winning 10 per cent of the vote in some areas of London, particularly where unemployment was high. The National Front march and meeting on 15 June 1974 was itself a protest against the Labour government's proposal to grant an amnesty to illegal immigrants. The National Front planned a march from Westminster Hall, handing in a petition as they passed Downing Street, to their meeting in Conway Hall. The National Front had been using Conway Hall for meetings during the previous four years, but anti-fascist pickets began in October 1973. On 15 June 1974, they planned a meeting entitled \"Stop immigration - start repatriation\".\n\nThe primary organisers of the counter-demonstration were the London Area Council of Liberation (formerly the Movement for Colonial Freedom), with participation from the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB), the International Marxist Group (IMG) and the International Socialists (later the Socialist Workers Party) and other left-wing groups. Liberation booked a smaller room at Conway Hall for a separate meeting, to be preceded by a march along a route agreed in advance with the police, starting at the Thames Embankment to avoid the route of the National Front march, but the police agreed that both marches could end at the same destination: Red Lion Square. An open-air meeting was planned on the north side of the square, to the west of the National Front meeting in Conway Hall, with an address by Syd Bidwell, the Labour MP for Southall. The edition of the \"Morning Star\" on 15 June 1974 encouraged support for the counter-demonstration, including messages from trades union leaders. After the event, the Honorary President of Liberation, Lord Brockway, stated that he had opposed the potential for a confrontation and violence from groups that joined the counter-demonstration.\n\nThe Liberation march of around 1,200 people came from the east, moving westwards along Theobald's Road and turned left (south) at Old North Street to enter Red Lion Square about half way along its northern edge, before turning right (west) to where a platform was set up for the meeting. A police cordon blocked the way to the left, east of Old North Street, to allow the National Front march to reach Conway Hall.\n\nDisorder broke out when the counter-march arrived at Red Lion Square at around 3:30 pm. Some demonstrators from the IMG group at the rear of the march attempted to block the route by which the National Front march would reach Conway Hall, and challenged the police cordon intended to keep the two groups of marchers apart. Gately was marching with IMG contingent, which included other students that came from Warwick by bus. The police cordon was reinforced by members of the Special Patrol Group and by mounted police, who eventually forced the demonstrators back and then cleared the square, with liberal use of police truncheons.\n\nThe National Front march of around 900 people approached from the west, marching down Bloomsbury Way to the west side of Southampton Row, accompanied by an Orange Order fife and drum band. The march arrived at Southampton Row around 20 minutes later, at around 5:50 pm, where they were stopped by the police. There were other altercations nearby close to Southampton Row.\n\nSome newspapers reported \"police brutality\". Around 40 policemen were treated for injuries, and many demonstrators too, with around 50 arrested.\n\nThe body of Kevin Gately was found on the ground among the fighting, and taken to a St John Ambulance crew. His friends from Warwick only realised that he was missing when they met after the demonstration ended. A student who enquired at University College Hospital was shown Kevin's body and asked to identify him.\n\nFellow students who were with Gately said that he was injured after several charges and counter-charges involving mounted police, foot police and demonstrators. Many others were injured, including 39 policemen. Clive Bloom, author of \"Violent London: 2,000 Years of Riots, Rebels and Revolts\", asserts Kevin Gately \"died under a police horse\". An inquest at St Pancras Coroner's Court later concluded that his death was caused by a brain haemorrhage resulting from a blow to the head from a blunt instrument. His exceptional height led several newspapers of the time to allege that his death may have been the result of a blow from a mounted police truncheon. Neither a coroner's inquest nor a public inquiry headed by Lord Justice Scarman were able to find evidence to prove or disprove this claim.\n\nA post-mortem examination gave inconclusive results, it was reported on 17 June, but it quickly became clear that he had died from a blow to the head. The coroner's inquest heard that the cause of his death was a subdural haemorrhage caused by a modest blow to his head, and the jury returned a verdict of death by misadventure on 12 July 1974 by a majority of 10-1. He was found to have a small oval bruise behind his left ear, and had collapsed shortly afterwards, only 10 ft (3 m) from the edge of the police cordon. Possible causes for the injury were a blow from an implement, such as police truncheon, or from a projectile, or from being kicked after falling to the ground.\n\nThe inquest was followed by a public inquiry led by Lord Justice Scarman, under rarely used power under section 32 of the Police Act 1964 to order a local inquiry into policing in a particular area. Similar powers were used for another inquiry by Scarman (by then a member of the House of Lords) after the 1981 Brixton riot. By contrast, there was no inquiry after the deaths of Liddle Towers in 1976, or of Blair Peach or Jimmy Kelly in 1979.\n\nThe Scarman inquiry spent twenty-three days receiving evidence from police and marchers, and another four days reviewing written representations. The IMG leaders on 15 June – Brian Heron and David Bailey – initially denied charging the first police cordon, but later admitted doing so to the Scarman inquiry.\n\nScarman's report was published on 27 February 1975. Scarman accepted that Gately was not a rioter, but had been carried along by the surging crowd, and stated: \"It was possible, though very unlikely, that in the melee he was struck by a police truncheon.\" Scarman concluded that Gately was a victim, not of the police, or of a criminal demonstrator, but of the situation in which he found himself. He apportioned some of the blame to riotous protesters, and attributed the injury to a \"minor unnoticed accident - a fall or an apparently minor glancing blow\".\n\nGately was buried in Surbiton on Friday 21 June, after a funeral at St Raphael's church in Surbiton, where he had been baptised. Also on 21 June, 500 students marched through Coventry with black armbands. The following day, Saturday 22 June 1974, thousands joined a silent march retraced the route of the Liberation counter-demonstration from the embankment to Red Lion Square. The march was led by personal friends of Gately, followed by University of Warwick students and then by students from many other universities and colleges as well as contingents from many of the left wing groups that had taken part in the original march. This march also received widespread media coverage.\n\nGately's death led to a major campaign by Warwick students against the National Front. A Kevin Gately Memorial Painting by Maureen Scott hangs in the Warwick University Students' Union, and was restored in 2004. It is displayed alongside contemporary telegrams of support from many other students' unions and a copy of \"Socialist Worker\" from the week following Gately's death. The painting is symbolic of the anti-fascist struggle and contains neither a representation of Gately nor of the events of June 1974. In 2009, it was suggested that a new student bar at Warwick University could be named after Gately, but the name \"The Dirty Duck\" was chosen instead.\nDemonstrations against the National Front continued through the 1970s and into the 1980s. Blair Peach was killed at an Anti-Nazi League demonstration which turned violent in Southall in April 1979. Syd Bidwell said in Parliament that Peach, together with Gately, would be \"regarded by history as a martyr and a young courageous campaigner against Fascism and racism\".\n\nLord Walker of Gestingthorpe referred to Gately's death, and the aim of preventing similar deaths, in the House of Lords consideration in 2009 of the justification for the Metropolitan Police's policy of \"kettling\" protesters at Oxford Circus on 1 May 2001.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "88272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88272", "title": "Edward Gorey", "text": "Edward Gorey\n\nEdward St. John Gorey (February 22, 1925 – April 15, 2000) was an American writer and artist noted for his illustrated books. His characteristic pen-and-ink drawings often depict vaguely unsettling narrative scenes in Victorian and Edwardian settings.\n\nEdward St. John Gorey was born in Chicago. His parents, Helen Dunham (née Garvey) and Edward Lee Gorey, divorced in 1936 when he was 11, then remarried in 1952 when he was 27. One of his stepmothers was Corinna Mura (1909–1965), a cabaret singer who had a small role in the classic film \"Casablanca\" as the woman playing the guitar while singing \"La Marseillaise\" at Rick's Café Américain. His father was briefly a journalist. Gorey's maternal great-grandmother, Helen St. John Garvey, was a popular nineteenth-century greeting card writer and artist, from whom he claimed to have inherited his talents.\n\nGorey attended a variety of local grade schools and then the Francis W. Parker School. He spent 1944 to 1946 in the Army at Dugway Proving Ground in Utah. He then attended Harvard University, beginning in 1946 and graduating in the class of 1950; he studied French and roomed with poet Frank O'Hara.\n\nIn the early 1950s, Gorey, with a group of recent Harvard alumni including Alison Lurie (1947), John Ashbery (1949), Donald Hall (1951) and Frank O'Hara (1950), amongst others, founded the Poets' Theatre in Cambridge, which was supported by Harvard faculty members John Ciardi and Thornton Wilder.\n\nHe frequently stated that his formal art training was \"negligible\"; Gorey studied art for one semester at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 1943.\n\nFrom 1953 to 1960, he lived in Manhattan and worked for the Art Department of Doubleday Anchor, illustrating book covers and in some cases, adding illustrations to the text. He illustrated works as diverse as Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\", H. G. Wells' \"The War of the Worlds\" and T. S. Eliot's \"Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats\". In later years he produced cover illustrations and interior artwork for many children's books by John Bellairs, as well as books begun by Bellairs and continued by Brad Strickland after Bellairs' death.\n\nHis first independent work, \"The Unstrung Harp\", was published in 1953. He also published under various pen names, some of which were anagrams of his first and last names, such as Ogdred Weary, Dogear Wryde, Ms. Regera Dowdy, and dozens more. His books also feature the names Eduard Blutig (\"Edward Gory\"), a German-language pun on his own name, and O. Müde (German for O. Weary).\n\n\"The New York Times\" credits bookstore owner Andreas Brown and his store, the Gotham Book Mart, with launching Gorey's career: \"it became the central clearing house for Mr. Gorey, presenting exhibitions of his work in the store's gallery and eventually turning him into an international celebrity.\"\n\nGorey's illustrated (and sometimes wordless) books, with their vaguely ominous air and ostensibly Victorian and Edwardian settings, have long had a cult following. He made a notable impact on the world of theater with his designs for the 1977 Broadway revival of \"Dracula\", for which he won the Tony Award for Best Costume Design and was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Scenic Design. In 1980, Gorey became particularly well known for his animated introduction to the PBS series \"Mystery!\" In the introduction of each \"Mystery!\" episode, host Vincent Price would welcome viewers to \"Gorey Mansion\".\nBecause of the settings and style of Gorey's work, many people have assumed he was British; in fact, he only left the U.S. once, for a visit to the Scottish Hebrides. In later years, he lived year-round in Yarmouth Port, Massachusetts, on Cape Cod, where he wrote and directed numerous evening-length entertainments, often featuring his own papier-mâché puppets, an ensemble known as Le Theatricule Stoique. The first of these productions, \"Lost Shoelaces\", premiered in Woods Hole, Massachusetts on August 13, 1987. The last was \"The White Canoe: an Opera Seria for Hand Puppets\", for which Gorey wrote the libretto, with a score by the composer Daniel James Wolf. Based on Thomas Moore's poem \"The Lake of the Dismal Swamp\", the opera was staged after Gorey's death and directed by his friend, neighbor, and longtime collaborator Carol Verburg, with a puppet stage made by his friends and neighbors, the noted set designers Herbert Senn and Helen Pond. In the early 1970s, Gorey wrote an unproduced screenplay for a silent film, \"The Black Doll\".\n\nAfter Gorey's death, one of his executors, Andreas Brown, turned up a large cache of unpublished work complete and incomplete. Brown described the find as \"ample material for many future books and for plays based on his work\".\n\nAlthough Gorey's books were popular with children, he did not associate with children much and had no particular fondness for them. Gorey never married, professed to have little interest in romance, and never discussed any specific romantic relationships in interviews. In the book \"The Strange Case of Edward Gorey\", published after Gorey's death, his friend Alexander Theroux reported that when Gorey was pressed on the matter of his sexual orientation, he said that even he was not sure whether he was gay or straight. When asked what his sexual orientation was in an interview, he said,\nEdward Gorey agreed in an interview that the \"sexlessness\" of his works was a product of his asexuality.\n\nFrom 1995 to his death in April 2000, the normally reclusive artist was the subject of a \"cinéma vérité\"-style documentary directed by Christopher Seufert. (As of 2016, the film has been screened as a work-in-progress; the finished film and accompanying book are in post-production.) He was interviewed on \"Tribute to Edward Gorey,\" an hour-long community, public-access television cable show produced by artist and friend Joyce Kenney. He contributed his videos and personal thoughts. Gorey served as a judge at Yarmouth art shows and enjoyed activities at the local cable station, studying computer art and serving as cameraman on many Yarmouth shows. His Cape Cod house is called \"Elephant House\" and is the subject of a photography book entitled \"Elephant House: Or, the Home of Edward Gorey,\" with photographs and text by Kevin McDermott. The house is now the Edward Gorey House Museum.\n\nGorey left the bulk of his estate to a charitable trust benefiting cats and dogs, as well as other species, including bats and insects.\nGorey is typically described as an illustrator. His books may be found in the humor and cartoon sections of major bookstores, but books such as \"The Object Lesson\" have earned serious critical respect as works of surrealist art. His experimentation—creating books that were wordless, books that were literally matchbox-sized, pop-up books, books entirely populated by inanimate objects—complicates matters still further. As Gorey told Lisa Solod of \"The Boston Globe\", \"Ideally, if anything were any good, it would be indescribable.\" Gorey classified his own work as literary nonsense, the genre made most famous by Lewis Carroll and Edward Lear.\n\nIn response to being called gothic, he stated, \"If you're doing nonsense it has to be rather awful, because there'd be no point. I'm trying to think if there's sunny nonsense. Sunny, funny nonsense for children—oh, how boring, boring, boring. As Schubert said, there is no happy music. And that's true, there really isn't. And there's probably no happy nonsense, either.\"\n\nGorey wrote more than 100 books, including the following:\n\n\nMany of Gorey's works were published obscurely and are difficult to find (and priced accordingly), however, the following four omnibus editions collect much of his material. Because his original books are rather short, these editions may contain 15 or more in each volume.\n\n\nHe also illustrated more than 50 works by other authors, including Samuel Beckett, Edward Lear, John Bellairs, H. G. Wells, Alain-Fournier, Charles Dickens, T. S. Eliot, Hilaire Belloc (where new illustrations to \"Cautionary Tales for Children\" were published posthumously), Muriel Spark, Florence Parry Heide, John Updike, John Ciardi and Felicia Lamport.\n\nGorey was very fond of word games, particularly anagrams. He wrote many of his books under pseudonyms that usually were anagrams of his own name (most famously Ogdred Weary). Some of these are listed below, with the corresponding book title(s). Eduard Blutig is also a word game: \"Blutig\" is German (the language from which these two books purportedly were translated) for \"bloody\" or \"gory\".\n\n\nGorey has become an iconic figure in the goth subculture. Events themed on his works and decorated in his characteristic style are common in the more Victorian-styled elements of the subculture, notably the Edwardian costume balls held annually in San Francisco and Los Angeles, which include performances based on his works. The \"Edwardian\" in this case refers less to the Edwardian period of history than to Gorey, whose characters are depicted as wearing fashion styles ranging from those of the mid-nineteenth century to the 1930s. \n\nDirector Mark Romanek's music video for the Nine Inch Nails song \"The Perfect Drug\" was designed specifically to resemble a Gorey book, with familiar Gorey elements including oversized urns, topiary plants and glum, pale characters in full Edwardian costume. Also, Caitlín R. Kiernan has published a short story entitled \"A Story for Edward Gorey\" (\"Tales of Pain and Wonder\", 2000), which features Gorey's black doll.\n\nA more direct link to Gorey's influence on the music world is evident in \"The Gorey End\", an album recorded in 2003 by The Tiger Lillies and the Kronos Quartet. This album was a collaboration with Gorey, who liked previous work by The Tiger Lillies so much that he sent them a large box of his unpublished works, which were then adapted and turned into songs. Gorey died before hearing the finished album.\n\nIn 1976, jazz composer Michael Mantler recorded an album called \"The Hapless Child\" (Watt/ECM) with Robert Wyatt, Terje Rypdal, Carla Bley, and Jack DeJohnette. It contains musical adaptations of \"The Sinking Spell\", \"The Object Lesson\", \"The Insect God\", \"The Doubtful Guest\", \"The Remembered Visit\", and \"The Hapless Child\". The last three songs also have been published on his 1987 \"Live\" album with Jack Bruce, Rick Fenn, and Nick Mason.\n\nThe opening titles of the PBS series \"Mystery!\" are based on Gorey's art, in an animated sequence co-directed by Derek Lamb.\n\nIn the last few decades of his life, Gorey merchandise became quite popular, with stuffed dolls, cups, stickers, posters, and other items available at malls around the United States.\n\nIn 2007, The Jim Henson Company announced plans to produce a feature film based on \"The Doubtful Guest\" to be directed by Brad Peyton. No release date was given and there has been no further information since the announcement.\n\nThe online journal \"Goreyesque\" publishes artwork, stories, and poems in the spirit of Edward Gorey's work. The journal is co-sponsored by the Department of Creative Writing at Columbia College Chicago and Loyola University Chicago. \"Goreyesque\" was launched in tandem with the Chicago debut of two Gorey collections: \"Elegant Enigmas: The Art of Edward Gorey\" and \"G is for Gorey\". The collections were shown at the Loyola University Museum of Art (LUMA) in Chicago, Illinois from February 15 to June 15, 2014. \"Goreyesque\" features the work of both emerging talents and seasoned professionals, such as writers Sam Weller and Joe Meno.\n\nContemporary American cartoonists with similar macabre style include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1096530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096530", "title": "Elizabeth Cecil, 15th Baroness de Ros", "text": "Elizabeth Cecil, 15th Baroness de Ros\n\nLady Elizabeth Manners, 15th Baroness de Ros of Helmsley (\"c\". January 1574/1575 – 19 May 1591) was the daughter and heir of Edward Manners, 3rd Earl of Rutland. On her father's death the Earldom of Rutland devolved upon his brother, the Barony of Ros passed to his daughter, Elizabeth.\n\nIn January 1589 she married at Newark Castle William Cecil, Lord Burghley, son of Thomas Cecil, 1st Earl of Exeter and Dorothy Neville, daughter of John Nevill, 4th Baron Latimer. Lord Burghley later succeeded as 2nd Earl. She died in childbirth, in London, at Tower Street, All Hallows, Barking and was buried in Westminster Abbey. She was succeeded in the Barony of Ros by her son, William.\n\nTheir child was:\n"}
{"id": "9064811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9064811", "title": "Elizabeth Frances Amherst (poet)", "text": "Elizabeth Frances Amherst (poet)\n\nElizabeth Frances Amherst ( – 1779), poet and amateur naturalist, remained largely unpublished during her lifetime.\n\nShe was born to Elizabeth Kerrill and Jeffrey Amherst (1677–1750) of Kent, one of two girls and seven boys. She married John Thomas, rector of Nutgrove, Cheshire and of Welford, Gloucestershire; the couple had no biological children and adopted a son, the child of a brother-in-law. One of her brothers, Jeffery, became Baron Amherst in 1776 and later was made a field-marshal: he was Commander-in-Chief of the British forces when they took Montreal in 1760.\n\nElizabeth Amherst was an avid fossil collector and maintained an active correspondence on the subject both before and after her marriage. Her poetry, described as \"sprightly\" (Greer et al. 179), would seem to have circulated mainly in manuscript, though a few poems were printed anonymously in the 1760s. They are mainly known, however, from the Bodleian manuscript, \"The Whims of E.A. afterwards Mrs. Thomas.\"\n"}
{"id": "442443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=442443", "title": "Epigeal", "text": "Epigeal\n\nEpigeal, epigean, epigeic and epigeous are biological terms describing an organism's activity above the soil surface.\n\nIn botany, a seed is described as showing epigeal germination when the cotyledons of the germinating seed expand, throw off the seed shell and become photosynthetic above the ground. The opposite kind, where the cotyledons remain non-photosynthetic, inside the seed shell, and below ground, is hypogeal germination.\n\nThe terms epigean, epigeic or epigeous are used for organisms that crawl (epigean), creep like a vine (epigeal), or grow (epigeous) on the soil surface: they are also used more generally for animals that neither burrow nor swim nor fly. The opposite terms are hypogean, hypogeic and hypogeous.\n\nAn epigeal nest is a term used for a termite mound, the above ground nest of a colony of termites.\n\n"}
{"id": "11760840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11760840", "title": "Forerunner (DC Comics)", "text": "Forerunner (DC Comics)\n\nForerunner is a fictional character published by DC Comics. She first appeared in \"Countdown\" #46 (August 2007), and was created by Jimmy Palmiotti, Justin Gray and Jesus Saiz.\n\nViza Aziv's origin story, as well as the history of her race, is depicted in \"Countdown to Adventure\" #1. The Forerunners' planet is the Earth of an alternate universe, ravaged by years of destructive war. The other \"Nine Houses\" (planets and dwarf planets) of the Solar System declared the planet a War World in which they would battle for occupancy. Survivors of the wars - the strongest and fittest - remained on the planet and interbred, unknowingly guided to do so by the Monitors. The process produced the Forerunners, a species possessing traits of the beings from other planets such as Green Martians and Saturnians. When the Nine Houses decided that the Forerunners were a threat that had to be eliminated, the Monitors intervened and formed a pact with the Nine Houses: the Monitors would keep the Forerunners from moving against the Nine Houses. For their own purposes, the Monitors would appoint one Forerunner as their Instrument of Righteous Death whom they also called Harbinger.\n\nViza is a member of a genetically engineered race of warriors tasked with serving the Monitors, and was assigned by a Monitor to kill anomalous beings inhabiting the Multiverse. In her first appearance, she battled Jason Todd and Donna Troy during their investigation of the death of Duela Dent. After failing to eliminate the two, she was denounced by one of the Monitors and suffered a crisis of confidence. Vowing to stay on Earth until she regained the trust of the Monitors, Forerunner was later contacted by Captain Atom (now called Monarch) who recruited her to aid him in his plans. He accused the Monitors of deploying a Harbinger, Dark Angel, to wipe out the Forerunner race. Monarch granted Forerunner an entire Bleed-based armada with which to wage war against the Monitors.\n\nMonarch discloses that Viza Aziv was chosen as the Monitors' warrior because they feared something in her: she was an unexpected outcome of the breeding program which created the Forerunners. Viza is sent by Monarch to recruit the JLA's of Earth-10 and the Conjurers of Earth-33. The Conjurers were forewarned of Viza's arrival by Dark Angel, who disguised herself as an Oracle. Forerunner is captured, Dark Angel reveals herself; Forerunner ultimately strikes her down. Dark Angel escapes; when Monarch arrives Viza rebukes his attempts to gather new recruits. When they return to the Bleed, Monarch attacks Forerunner for questioning his authority. She attacks him, but realizes that damaging Monarch's suit would unleash a catastrophic explosion, and she relents.\n\nMonarch informs Forerunner that the tournament is about to begin, and that he doesn't need her services any longer. He teleports her to an unknown region of space. Forerunner is rescued by a passing freight ship, which is attacked by pirates. Forerunner boards the pirate ship, kills the captain, and evicts all non-necessary crew members. The ship is attacked by a Thanagarian fleet. The flagship, seeking the ship's original captain, demands her surrender. In response, Forerunner challenges their leader, Golden Eagle, to single combat. Viza invokes the law of choice, a custom on her home world, empowering the victor to take any prize they desire. After defeating Eagle and his troops, Viza takes \"him\" as her prize; he's an initially unwilling sex slave. The ship reaches the Source Wall, which has a gaping hole at its center.\n\nThe crew encounter an Earth space shuttle with a young boy in cryogenic stasis, whom they bring aboard. Forerunner commands the crew to pass through the wall, where they see Monarch's forces battling the Monitors. Forerunner locates the Monitors' base, which leads to events seen in \"Countdown to Final Crisis\" #15: she attacks the Monitor named Solomon; Superman-Prime arrives and brutally bests her. In #13, she attacks Solomon again while Prime fights Monarch, again to no avail. Before Solomon can finish her, Darkseid appears, and convinces Solomon to join him on Apokolips.\n\nAfter returning to the ship, Forerunner is told that passing through the Source Wall depleted the ships energy reserves, and that they only have forty-eight hours of power and oxygen left. The ship ends up trapped in no-space, and the crew are contacted by a sentient planet, who offers them the fuel they need in return for escorting a young planet across the sector. During the trip, they are attacked, and, at the young planet's request, Forerunner places a drop of her blood onto its land, allowing it to create antibodies from her DNA. When their task is completed, it is revealed that the young planet will soon make a new Forerunner race from Viza's blood. Viza decides to stay with the planet, and become the new race's Thought Mother.\n\nViza Aziv possesses considerable superhuman strength and resistance to injury. She was able to resist gunfire from an automatic rifle and is tough enough that Donna Troy was injured simply by punching her. Forerunner can move at speeds well in excess to that of a normal human being. Her rate of acceleration and maximum velocity has yet to be determined but she was fast enough that a normal human could not follow her movement. However, it seems, while generally faster than a normal human, these feats of considerable superhuman speed are only temporary boosts. Because of the general life-style of her species she has excessive weapon and hand-to-hand combat training. She has defeated numerous Supermen in the Multiverse although she proved no match for Superman-Prime. She possesses telepathy and the ability to become temporarily invisible, presumably from her Martian ancestry. She has also been seen throwing various types of spikes at enemies. Viza also wears gloves with sharply tipped fingers that she can use as a weapon to slash at enemies.\n\nAt this point, it is unclear if Viza Aziv's abilities are typical of her race, although evidence seems to suggest so. All members of her race have a genetic fail safe which prevents them from attacking Monitors.\n\n"}
{"id": "21525539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21525539", "title": "Global War on Error", "text": "Global War on Error\n\nThe Global War on Error is a campaign to eliminate aviation errors. The term was coined by Tony Kern, CEO of Covergent Knowledge Solutions.\n\nBombardier, a Canadian manufacturer of aircraft, has adopted the campaign. The U.S. Department of Defense also incorporated techniques developed by the program.\n\nThe campaign is intended to be synergistic with new technology and with the FAA Safety Management System approach. The campaign was initially funded with a $300,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Defense.\n\n"}
{"id": "592825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592825", "title": "Hasdrubal Barca", "text": "Hasdrubal Barca\n\nHasdrubal Barca (245– 22June 207BC), a latinization of ʿAzrubaʿal () son of Hamilcar Barca, was a Carthaginian general in the Second Punic War. He was the brother of Hannibal and Mago Barca.\n\nLittle is known of Hasdrubal's early life. He was present, along with his brother Hannibal, when his father, Hamilcar, besieged the city of Helike. Hamilcar was forced to flee and drowned in the Jucar River. Little is known about his activities during the time Hasdrubal the Fair led the Punic forces in Spain, or during the campaigns of Hannibal Barca in Spain and his Siege of Saguntum.\n\nHannibal, when he set out for Italy in 218 BC, left a force of 13,000 infantry, 2,550 cavalry and 21 war elephants in Iberia. The Punic navy had a fleet of 50 quinqueremes and 5 triremes stationed there. However, only 32 Quinqueremes were manned at the start of the Second Punic War. Hasdrubal commanded this force and was to set out for Italy in 217 BC to reinforce Hannibal. Hannibal left another army under Hanno in Catalonia, consisting of 10,000 foot and 1,000 horse on his way to Italy in 218 BC.\n\nLeft in command of Hispania when Hannibal departed to Italy in 218 BC, Hasdrubal was destined to fight for six years against the brothers Gnaeus and Publius Cornelius Scipio. The expedition led by Gnaeus Scipio in 218 BC had caught the Carthaginians by surprise, and before Hasdrubal could join Hanno, the Carthaginian commander on the North of Ebro River, the Romans had fought and won the Battle of Cissa and established their army at Tarraco and their fleet at Emporiae. Hasdrubal, commanding only 8,000 troops and outnumbered by the Romans, raided the Romans with a flying column of light infantry and cavalry, which inflicted severe losses on their naval crews and reduced the fighting strength to 35 ships. This loss was offset by the arrival of an allied Greek contingent from the city of Massilia.\n\nIn the spring of 217 BC, Hasdrubal led a joint expedition north to fight the Romans. He commanded the army, while his deputy commanded the fleet. The Punic Army and the fleet moved north side by side and encamped on the mouth of the Ebro River. Carelessness of the Carthaginian fleet enabled Gnaeus Scipio to surprise the Carthaginians and crush their naval contingent at the Battle of Ebro River. Hasdrubal retreated without fighting the Roman army. The year 216 was spent quelling an uprising of Iberian tribes, possibly the Turdetanii around the area near Gades.\n\nHasdrubal was reinforced by 4,000 infantry and 500 cavalry and was ordered by the Carthaginian senate to march to Italy in the same year. He left Himilco the Navigator in charge at Cartagena and marched for the Ebro river, but was heavily defeated in the Battle of Dertosa in the spring of 215 BC. This defeat prevented reinforcements reaching Hannibal from both Iberia and Africa at a critical moment of the War, when the Carthaginians held the upper hand in Italy. The Carthaginians from then on were forced to contest the Romans in the area between the Ebro and Jucor rivers.\n\nThis defeat also led to Mago and Hasdrubal Gisco arriving in Iberia with two armies and ending the undisputed command of the Barcid family in Iberia. The Carthaginains fought the Scipio brothers and had on the whole the worst of the conflict between 215 and 212 BC, but managed to prevent the loss of any territory. At the instigation of the Romans, Syphax, one of the kings of the Numidian tribes, attacked Carthaginian territories in Africa in 213/212 BC. The situation in Iberia was sufficiently under control, because Hasdrubal and his Iberian army crossed over to Africa and crushed the threat of Syphax in a battle where 30,000 Numidians were killed. With his Roman-trained army shattered, Syphax fled to Mauritania. The aid of Masinissa, a Numidian prince, was invaluable during this episode, and he crossed over to Iberia with Hasdrubal after the African expedition ended with 3,000 Numidian cavalry.\n\nIn late 212 BC, Hasdrubal, with timely cooperation from Mago Barca and Hasdrubal Gisco, completely routed his opponents at the Battle of the Upper Baetis, destroying the majority of the Roman army in Iberia and killing both the Scipios. Carthaginians gained control of Iberia up to the Ebro as a result of this victory. However, the lack of cooperation between the Carthaginian generals led to the surviving Roman force of 8,000 retiring safely to the north of the river Ebro. These troops somehow managed to keep the Carthaginian armies from gaining a foothold north of the Ebro. The Romans reinforced this detachment with 10,000 troops under Claudius Nero in 211 BC and with another 10,000 soldiers under Scipio Africanus Major in 210 BC, who spent the year training his army and improving his diplomatic contacts.\n\nThe Carthaginian armies had dispersed into the interior of Iberia in 209 BC, possibly to maintain control over the Iberian tribes, which they were dependent on for soldiers and provisions. The Carthaginian armies were subsequently outgeneraled by Scipio Africanus Major, who, taking advantage of the absence of the three Carthaginian armies in 209 BC, captured Carthago Nova and gained other advantages. Hasdrubal was defeated by Scipio at the Battle of Baecula but managed to retreat with two-thirds of his army intact.\n\nLater in 209 BC, Hasdrubal was summoned to join his brother in Italy. He eluded Scipio by crossing the Pyrenees at their western extremity and safely made his way into Gaul in the winter of 208. Hasdrubal had waited until the spring of 207 to make his way through the Alps and into Northern Italy. Hasdrubal made much faster progress than his brother had, partly due to the construction left behind by Hannibal's army when he had passed via the same route a decade earlier, but also due to the removal of the Gallic threat that had plagued Hannibal early on. The Gauls now feared and respected the Carthaginians, and not only was Hasdrubal allowed to pass through the Alps unmolested, his ranks were bolstered by many enthusiastic Gauls. Hasdrubal, in the same fashion as his brother, succeeded in bringing his war elephants, raised and trained in Hispania. It was not until Hasdrubal sent messengers to Hannibal that decisive measures were taken. Hasdrubal wished to meet with his brother in South Umbria. However, this was not to be. Hasdrubal's messengers were captured, and he was ultimately checked by two Roman armies. Being forced to give battle, he was decisively defeated at the Battle of the Metaurus. Hasdrubal, with his armies defeated and in full disorganized retreat, charged into the fray to his certain death, and was beheaded. His head was packed into a sack and thrown into his brother Hannibal's camp as a sign of his utter defeat. This action was in stark contrast to Hannibal's treatment of the bodies of fallen Roman Consuls.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33233864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33233864", "title": "Henry B. Harris", "text": "Henry B. Harris\n\nHenry Birkhardt Harris (December 1, 1866 – April 15, 1912) was a Broadway producer and theatre owner who died in the sinking of the . His wife was actress Renee Harris, who was injured in a fall on the Grand Staircase of the \"Titanic\". She survived the sinking and lived until 1969.\n\nHarris was the son of William Harris Sr., a founder of the Theatrical Syndicate in the 1890s and Rachel Harris (\"née\") Freefield. He had a younger brother, William Harris Jr. Harris was born in St. Louis in 1866 and was a young boy when the family moved to Boston. He began his career selling song books in the theater lobby as a young man in St. Louis. When the family moved to Boston, young Harris began selling song books in the lobby of the Howard Athenaeum. He married Irene Wallach, a legal secretary from Washington, D. C. with an interest in the theater on October 22, 1899.\n\nHarris worked for his father in the theatrical business in Boston for a number of years before starting out on his own producing plays in 1901. He managed such stars as Amelia Bingham and Robert Edeson. In 1906, Harris became the owner of the Hackett Theatre on 42nd Street. The theater was later renamed the Harris Theatre, to honor William Harris Sr. He leased and managed the Hudson Theatre in New York and in 1911 built the Folies Bergère Theatre. The Folies Bergère was an attempt to emulate the success of its Parisian namesake. By September 1911 it had failed swiftly and heavily: Harris lost a reported $100,000 on the venture.\n\nBy April 1912 he was in London, arranging future performances of \"Maggie Pepper\" by Charles Klein with his star artiste Rose Stahl and the original American cast from the Harris Theatre. The play was made into a 1919 film of the same name. Harris also acquired the US rights to \"The Miracle\", the world's first full-colour narrative feature film which had been showing at the Royal Opera House.\n\nHarris was one of the 1,500 who died in the \"Titanic\"'s sinking on April 15, 1912. A survivor's eyewitness account suggests that Harris went to his death needlessly. Mrs. Emil Taussig and her husband, along with the Harrises, went to the deck as they felt the collision. After the women had been placed in a lifeboat, there was still room for other passengers. When Harris and Taussig attempted to enter the lifeboat, both men were threatened with revolvers. Mrs. Taussig said this boat was lowered with empty seats aboard it; she and her daughter were passengers on this lifeboat. She said when she last saw Henry Harris and her husband, both were standing side by side as they waved goodbye to their loved ones aboard the lifeboats.\n\nAlthough she had broken her elbow in a fall on Titanic's grand staircase earlier in the day, Irene Harris had somehow managed to leave the lifeboat before it was lowered. Hoping to be able to leave \"Titanic\" with her husband, she remained until the last lifeboat was being readied. Fifteen minutes after it was lowered into the water, \"Titanic\" sank. Mrs. Harris was rescued by the ship \"RMS Carpathia\". She cabled the Hudson Theatre from the ship, saying that her husband was not among those on board, but hoped he had been saved by another rescue vessel. A story was circulated that Harris had been rescued by another ship and had wired his New York office to that effect, but this proved to be untrue. His body was lost at sea. If it was recovered and brought to Halifax by one of the cable ships sent out to look for bodies, it was never identified as such.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44738576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44738576", "title": "Hyper basis function network", "text": "Hyper basis function network\n\nIn machine learning, a Hyper basis function network, or HyperBF network, is a generalization of radial basis function (RBF) networks concept, where the Mahalanobis-like distance is used instead of Euclidean distance measure. Hyper basis function networks were first introduced by Poggio and Girosi in the 1990 paper “Networks for Approximation and Learning”.\n\nThe typical HyperBF network structure consists of a real input vector formula_1, a hidden layer of activation functions and a linear output layer. The output of the network is a scalar function of the input vector, formula_2, is given by \n\nwhere formula_3 is a number of neurons in the hidden layer, formula_4 and formula_5 are the center and weight of neuron formula_6. The activation function formula_7 at the HyperBF network takes the following form\n\nwhere formula_8 is a positive definite formula_9 matrix. Depending on the application, the following types of matrices formula_8 are usually considered\n\nTraining HyperBF networks involves estimation of weights formula_5, shape and centers of neurons formula_8 and formula_4. Poggio and Girosi (1990) describe the training method with moving centers and adaptable neuron shapes. The outline of the method is provided below.\n\nConsider the quadratic loss of the network formula_20. The following conditions must be satisfied at the optimum:\n\nwhere formula_21. Then in the gradient descent method the values of formula_22 that minimize formula_23 can be found as a stable fixed point of the following dynamic system:\n\nwhere formula_24 determines the rate of convergence.\n\nOverall, training HyperBF networks can be computationally challenging. Moreover, the high degree of freedom of HyperBF leads to overfitting and poor generalization. However, HyperBF networks have an important advantage that a small number of neurons is enough for learning complex functions.\n"}
{"id": "5594419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5594419", "title": "Idealistic pluralism", "text": "Idealistic pluralism\n\nIdealistic pluralism is a philosophical position that suggests while an individual's understanding of the world might be limited to only the ideas within his or her mind, it can be known in this way by more than one mind.\n\nIdealistic pluralism rejects the idea of solipsism, which would be an idealistic monism. In the philosophy of George Berkeley, an idealistic pluralism is found in his assertion that many minds (each knowing the world though their own representations) exist, separate from each other, and from God.\n"}
{"id": "54400542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54400542", "title": "Italian submarine Dagabur", "text": "Italian submarine Dagabur\n\nItalian submarine \"Dagabur\" was an built for the Royal Italian Navy (\"Regia Marina\") during the 1930s. It was named after a town of Dagabur in eastern Ethiopia.\n\nThe \"Adua\"-class submarines were essentially repeats of the preceding . They displaced surfaced and submerged. The submarines were long, had a beam of and a draft of .\n\nFor surface running, the boats were powered by two diesel engines, each driving one propeller shaft. When submerged each propeller was driven by a electric motor. They could reach on the surface and underwater. On the surface, the \"Adua\" class had a range of at , submerged, they had a range of at .\n\nThe boats were armed with six internal torpedo tubes, four in the bow and two in the stern. One reload torpedo was carried for each tube, for a total of twelve. They were also armed with one deck gun for combat on the surface. The light anti-aircraft armament consisted of one or two pairs of machine guns.\n\n\"Dagabur\" was built at the Tosi shipyard in Taranto. She was laid down on 16 April 1936, launched on 22 November of the same year, and commissioned on 9 April 1937. On April 25, 1937 she was assigned to 43rd Submarine Squadron in Taranto. During 1937 she carried out training and exercises in the Dodecanese and Libya. Between August and September of 1937 she performed three missions during the Spanish Civil War. During the first one, on Aug. 13, 1937 \"Dagabur\" attacked a ship but missed it. In 1938 she was reassigned to Tobruk, and in 1940 she returned to Italy, and was assigned to 46th Squadron (IV Submarine Group) based first at Taranto and then at Augusta.\n\nAfter Italy's entrance into World War II, \"Dagabur\" under command of captain Domenico Romano, was engaged in various defensive missions, mainly anti-submarine, in the Gulf of Taranto and off the coasts of Tunisia and Libya. She did not encounter any enemy units during these missions. \n\nOn January 1, 1941 \"Dagabur\" commenced her patrol off Cyrenaica coast lasting until January 12, but it proved to be uneventful.\n\nOn February 19, 1941 she unsuccessfully patrolled off Malta.\n\nOn March 29, 1941, \"Dagabur\" along with two other submarines, was sent to patrol between Alexandria and Cape Krio. These three submarines were a part of the screening force covering main Italian battle formation involved in the Operation \"Gaudo\". At 20:27 on March 30 \"Dagabur\" sighted in the position light cruiser escorting, along with three destroyers, two transports. Being in ideal position for attack, at 20:37 she launched two torpedoes, and heard two strong explosions. There were no news of the result of this attack and it's likely the cruiser was damaged, but hours later, was torpedoed again, this time, by the submarine \"Ambra\" and sunk with a loss of 23 officers and 115 other members of the crew.\n\nOn December 14, 1941 \"Dagabur\", now under command of captain Alberto Torri, intercepted while surfaced, and launched two torpedoes at an unknown unit, and immediately disengaging by diving. From the British documentation, it was later learned that the unit attacked was British submarine \"Talisman\", which did not sustain any damage and it reacted with the launch of two torpedoes and deck gun fire, but also with no results.\n\nAt the beginning of August 1942 \"Dagabur\", now under command of captain Renato Pecori, left Cagliari and was sent to patrol an area between Ibiza and Mallorca and northern coast of Algeria. On August 10, 1942 she was ordered to report sightings of enemy units, but not attack any ships until after the start of the British Operation \"Pedestal\". On August 11, 1942 she sighted British Force, part of Operation \"Bellows\", including British aircraft carrier and eight destroyers south of the Balearic Islands. \"Dagabur\" attempted to maneuver into approach on the surface but was spotted and attacked and rammed by destroyer and sank with all hands in the position on August 12 . was also damaged in the collision, and had to be escorted back to Gibraltar for repairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50359909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50359909", "title": "Job strain", "text": "Job strain\n\nJob strain is a form of psychosocial stress that occurs in the workplace. One of the most common forms of stress, it is characterized by a combination of high demands and low levels of control regarding one's job.\n\nA 2012 meta-analysis found a positive association between job strain and coronary heart disease risk. A 2015 meta-analysis found a similar association between job strain and stroke; the association was especially strong for women. Job strain has also been found to increase the risk of higher blood pressure but not obesity.\n"}
{"id": "3506710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3506710", "title": "Joseph Wanton Morrison", "text": "Joseph Wanton Morrison\n\nJoseph Wanton Morrison (4 May 1783 – 15 February 1826) was a British soldier, best known for commanding the British troops at the Battle of Crysler's Farm during the War of 1812.\n\nMorrison was born in New York (which was then under British occupation in the final days of the American War of Independence), the son of a senior Commissariat officer. He joined the British Army as an Ensign in 1793, and was present as a Lieutenant in the Anglo-Russian invasion of Holland in 1799, where he was severely wounded at the Battle of Egmont-op-Zee.\n\nHe was promoted rapidly through purchase and in 1808, he was in command of the 2nd Battalion of the 89th Foot in Ireland as a Major. Inspecting field officers commented favourably both on the battalion and on Morrison himself. In November 1809, he exchanged into the 1st West India Regiment to gain promotion to Lieutenant-Colonel, serving in Trinidad. In July, 1811, he returned to the 2/89th as its commanding officer. The battalion was stationed in Gibraltar in 1812 when war broke out between Britain and the United States, and it was despatched to reinforce the British troops in Canada.\n\nIn October 1813, the 2/89th were stationed at Kingston in Upper Canada when news arrived that a large American force was descending the Saint Lawrence River, intent on attacking Montreal. Morrison was placed in command of a \"Corps of Observation\" which included his own battalion, and was ordered to pursue and harass this American army. His force, numbering 900 and supported by gunboats under Captain William Mulcaster, was encamped at Crysler's Farm on 11 November. Major General James Wilkinson, commanding the American army, determined to drive Morrison's force away before proceeding further down the river. On favourable ground and using the classic British tactics of fighting in line and firing deliberate controlled volleys, Morrison's troops easily repulsed the American attack, even though outnumbered three to one, and captured a 6-pounder gun which the Americans abandoned as they retreated.\n\nIn July 1814, Morrison was severely wounded at the Battle of Lundy's Lane, and saw no further action in the War of 1812, although he was a member of the court martial board which tried Major General Henry Procter for negligence following the defeat at the Battle of Moraviantown.\n\nAfter the war, he transferred to the deactivated Sicilian Regiment and went on half pay until 1821. He then became Lieutenant-Colonel of the 44th Foot, which was posted to Calcutta in India. He was promoted to Brigadier-General to command a brigade in an expedition to the province of Arakan during the First Anglo-Burmese War in 1824. Although the expedition was successful, Arakan was notorious for malaria and other diseases, and Morrison and many of his men fell ill with tropical fever. He died at sea on the voyage back to Britain.\n\nIn early 1809 he had married Elizabeth Hester Marriott of Worcester. He and his wife had no children.\n\n"}
{"id": "1958533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1958533", "title": "King Edward Memorial Hospital for Women", "text": "King Edward Memorial Hospital for Women\n\nKing Edward Memorial Hospital for Women (KEMH) is a hospital located in Subiaco, Western Australia. It is Western Australia's largest maternity hospital and only referral centre for complex pregnancies.\n\nIt provides pregnancy and neonatal care within the greater Perth Metropolitan area. In cases where patients have gone to private maternity clinics, they may be moved to KEMH if complications occur. All cases of complicated pregnancy in Western Australia are transferred to KEMH by the Royal Flying Doctor Service.\n\nIn 1909, a meeting was convened in Perth by the Women's Service Guilds to discuss the establishment of a new maternity hospital. At the time in Perth, there were only a few private maternity clinics, and charitable organizations providing services to the poor, but no dedicated public maternity hospital facilities. The main outcome of the 1909 meeting was to appoint a committee to pursue the matter, jointly chaired by Edith Cowan and Jane Scott. Between 1910 and 1915 the committee wrangled with the government and raised funds to support the establishment of a hospital. Plans were suggested for building an extra ward at the Perth Public Hospital, or as an adjunct to the Home of Mercy in Lincoln Street, but eventually the site of the Industrial School in Subiaco was chosen.\n\nThe hospital was named the King Edward Memorial Hospital for Women as a lasting memorial to King Edward VII, who died in 1910. The hospital commenced operating on 14 July 1916. 101 babies were born in the first 6 months of operation. At the time, the hospital charged a standard fee of £3 3s for 'confinement' and fourteen days of post-natal care.\n\nIn 1994 the organisational structure for King Edward Memorial Hospital and the Princess Margaret Hospital for Children were integrated, although separate locations were maintained. In 2002 the organisation was renamed Women's and Children's Health Service. In 2006, the two hospitals were once again separated. King Edward Memorial Hospital is now home of the state's Women and Newborn Health Service, as part of the North Metropolitan Health Service.\n\nKEMH is a tertiary maternity hospital, and provides general maternity for women in its catchment area, as well as handling complex pregnancies from across the state. KEMH has Australia's first milk bank, as well as a comprehensive inpatient service for women suffering from postnatal psychiatric disorders. KEMH also specialises in women's health, and treats over 5,000 patients with gynaecological conditions every year. KEMH is also involved in the training of student doctors and other health professionals.\n\nIn addition, KEMH hosts a number of statewide services as part of the WA Women and Newborn Health Service, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "4378291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4378291", "title": "Kurt Schork", "text": "Kurt Schork\n\nKurt Schork (January 24, 1947 – May 24, 2000) was an American reporter and war correspondent. He was killed in an ambush while on an assignment for Reuters in Sierra Leone together with cameraman Miguel Gil Moreno de Mora of Spain, who worked for Associated Press Television. Two other Reuters journalists, South African cameraman Mark Chisholm and Greek photographer Yannis Behrakis were injured in the attack in which Schork died.\n\nKurt Schork was born in Washington, D.C.. He graduated from Jamestown College in 1969, and studied at Oxford University as a Rhodes scholar later that year—the same time as future United States President Bill Clinton. Schork worked as a property developer, a political adviser, and then chief of staff for the New York City Transit Authority before becoming a journalist.\n\nKurt Schork covered numerous conflicts and wars, including The Balkans, and in Iraq, Chechnya, Iraqi Kurdistan, Sri Lanka, and East Timor.\n\nHe filed the story \"Romeo and Juliet in Sarajevo\", about a young couple, Boško Brkić and Admira Ismić, an Eastern Orthodox Bosnian Serb and Muslim Bosniak girl killed during the Siege of Sarajevo. Admira's and Boško's relationship defied the ethnic hatred which followed the breakup of the former Yugoslavia. After being shot and killed by a sniper while attempting to flee the area, their bodies remained unreachable on a bridge in no man's land for eight days as the war raged on. They became known as Romeo and Juliet as the story of their unshakable love emerged. Before they made the decision to flee, the young couple were serving as surrogate parents to the young sons of Admira's cousin, Brana, who was killed in Sarajevo by a 60-millimeter shell while putting her sons to sleep. Boško's decision to flee with Admira was influenced by the fact that his grandfather was summoned in Croatia to a police station by pro-Hitler Fascists during World War II and never seen again.\n\nThe original dispatch by Kurt Schork telling the moving story of Romeo and Juliet in Sarajevo.\n\nAfter Schork died, as per his personal wishes, upon cremation half of his ashes was buried next to his mother in Washington, D.C., and half at \"Groblje Lav\" \"(The Lion Cemetery)\" in Sarajevo, next to the grave of Boško and Admira, the central figures in Schork's acclaimed story.\n\nMr. Schork has been memorialized posthumously in: the dedication of Kurt Schork Street in Sarajevo, and citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina: in the dedication of the Kurt Schork newsroom at Jamestown College, his alma mater; and in the documentary Romeo and Juliet in Sarajevo.\n\nThe goal of the Kurt Schork Memorial Fund and Awards recognizes and assist freelance and local journalists who make a critical contribution to international understanding but whose work is often overlooked. The awards include two cash prizes of $5,000 each to provide some financial support to help the winners continue reporting. Though local journalists in the developing world take extraordinary risks to expose corruption and injustice in their countries, they rarely earn enough money to support themselves and their families. Similarly, freelancers live from job to job, never knowing when the next assignment will come, where it may lead or how long it will last. With these awards, the Fund spotlights the plight and achievements of both.\n\n"}
{"id": "1915405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1915405", "title": "Leoniders", "text": "Leoniders\n\nLeoniders (леонидяне) are a fictional alien race from the Noon Universe created by the Strugatsky brothers. Their homeworld is Leonida (Леонида), a planet discovered in 2133 AD by Leonid Gorbovsky.\n\nLeoniders are mentioned in \"\", \"An Attempt to Escape\" and \"Beetle in an Anthill\".\n\nLeoniders are humanoids like humans but somewhat smaller.\n\nThe term \"technological advancеment\" is not very appropriate to Leoniders since their \"technology\" is very different from humanity's. It is known, for example, that they live in a perfect symbiosis with major forms of flora and fauna of Leonida.\n\nNo data available despite the continuous diplomatic contact between Leonida and Earth.\n"}
{"id": "40594777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40594777", "title": "List of baseball players who died during their careers", "text": "List of baseball players who died during their careers\n\nThis is a list of baseball players who died during their careers. These deaths occurred during a game, due to illness, results of accidents, acts of violence, or suicide.\n\nRepeated studies have shown that Major League Baseball players have a greater life expectancy than males in the general U.S. population — about five years more, on average, which is attributed to their superior fitness and healthy lifestyles. The longer the active career, the longer the player lives, on average. This correlation is attributed to the maintenance of fitness and increased wealth.\n\nThis is a list of notable deaths in baseball and untimely deaths of active professional baseball players.\n\nThe following Major League Baseball players died during their careers.\n\nMinor league players are listed with their major league affiliate team.\n\nFormer players of Major League Baseball still active in professional baseball at the time of their death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31749280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31749280", "title": "List of massacres in the United States", "text": "List of massacres in the United States\n\nThis is a partial list of massacres in the United States; it excludes single-perpetrator massacres; death tolls may be approximate.\n\n"}
{"id": "4653481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4653481", "title": "NeuronStudio", "text": "NeuronStudio\n\nNeuronStudio is a non-commercial program created at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai by the Computational Neurobiology and Imaging Center. This program performs automatic tracing and reconstruction of neuron structures from confocal image stacks. The resulting model can then be exported to a file using standard formats for further processing, modeling, or for statistical analyses.\n\nThe system handles morphologic details on scales spanning local spine geometry through complex tree topology to the gross spatial arrangement of multi-neuron networks. NeuronStudio's capability for automated digitization avoids the subjective errors that arise during manual tracing.\n\nDeconvolution of imaged data is essential for accurate 3D reconstructions. Deconvolution is an image restoration approach where 'a priori' knowledge of the optical system in the form of a point spread function (PSF) is used to obtain a better estimate of the object. A point spread function can be either calculated from the actual microscope parameters, measured with beads, or estimated and iteratively refined ([Blind Deconvolution]). PSFs can be adjusted locally to account for variations in refractive characteristics of the tissue with depth and sample characteristics. For automated use with large, tiled tissue blocks, this is faster and more accurate than using an experimentally determined PSF.\n\nQuantization errors arise in standard skeletonization algorithms from the integer nature of digital images. The requirement for accurate representation of fine dendritic geometry has required the development of novel adaptations of standard skeletonization and diameter estimation algorithms to correct for these quantization errors. Iterative thinning skeletonization methods can provide a distance in voxels from each tree node to the surface of the object. This distance is the D6 metric, obtained by counting the number of voxels as they are removed in the minimal 6-connected path from the surface to the medial axis. In existing skeletonization or vectorization algorithms for dendritic morphometry, the branch cross-section at any node is approximated as circular, with the D6 metric providing the single diameter estimate. The precision of this diameter estimate is limited to the physical size of the voxels. For small structures such as thin dendrites and spines, comprising only a few voxels even at maximal imaging resolution, the error can be significant if this measure is used directly (see figure). To minimize quantization error and evaluate more precisely the geometry of the nodes, a new estimation technique exists, the Rayburst Sampling Algorithm that uses the original grayscale data rather than the segmented images for precise, continuous radius estimation, and multidirectional radius sampling to more accurately represent non-circular branch cross-sections and non-spherical spine heads.\n\nThe Rayburst Sampling Algorithm uses the original grayscale data rather than the segmented images for precise, continuous radius estimation, and multidirectional radius sampling to more accurately represent non-circular branch cross-sections and non-spherical spine heads. The algorithm precomputes an array of unit vectors which sample the data in multiple directions, (the Sampling Core) from which an estimate of the node's geometry is computed. Accurate representation of each direction by the sampling core requires that the \"N\" vectors should be uniformly spaced over the unit sphere. The algorithm uses a particle physics simulation in which a set \"N\" of randomly oriented unit vectors is generated, resulting in a random, nonuniform distribution of points on the sphere. Each particle then receives a repulsive force from every other particle, proportional to the inverse square of the distance between them. By iteratively displacing the particle in the direction of the resultant forces, the particles rearrange themselves. This system will tend to a stable, minimum energy configuration within approximately 40 iterations, where each particle is maximally separated from its closest neighbors. The information can be used to reconstruct 3D branches of arbitrarily irregular shapes. The diameter of an equivalent circular cross-section is computed in the plane normal to the medial axis using the Median Lower Band Diameter (MLBD). To compute the MLBD, take the set of samples and add the corresponding pairs of opposite vectors. Sort the vectors by size, define the lower band as the lower 50%, and use the distance at position N/4, representing the median of the lower band, to estimate the diameter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10459803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10459803", "title": "Neuron (software)", "text": "Neuron (software)\n\nNeuron is a simulation environment for modeling individual and networks of neurons. It was primarily developed by Michael Hines, John W. Moore, and Ted Carnevale at Yale and Duke.\n\nNeuron models individual neurons via the use of sections that are automatically subdivided into individual compartments, instead of requiring the user to manually create compartments. The primary scripting language is hoc but a Python interface is also available. Programs can be written interactively in a shell, or loaded from a file. Neuron supports parallelization via the MPI protocol.\n\nNeuron is capable of handling diffusion-reaction models, and integrating diffusion functions into models of synapses and cellular networks. Parallelization is possible via internal multithreaded routines, for use on multi-core computers. The properties of the membrane channels of the neuron are simulated using compiled mechanisms written using the NMODL language or by compiled routines operating on internal data structures that are set up with Channel Builder.\n\nAlong with the analogous software platform GENESIS, Neuron is the basis for instruction in computational neuroscience in many courses and laboratories around the world.\n\nNeuron features a graphical user interace (GUI), for use by individuals with minimal programming experience. The GUI comes equipped with a builder for single and multiple compartment cells, networks, network cells, channels and linear electric circuits. Single and multiple compartment cells differ in that multiple compartment cells features several \"sections\", each with potentially distinct parameters for dimensions and kinetics. Tutorials are available on the Neuron website, including for getting basic models out of the cell, channel and network builders. With these builders, the user can form the basis of all simulations and models.\n\nCell Builder allows the user to generate and modify stick figure cell structures. These sections form the basis of functionally distinct areas of the neuron.\n\nThe user can define functionally distinct groups of sections. Sections branching from one another can be labeled \"dendrites,\" while another, single section that projects from the same central one can be labeled as the \"axon.\" The user can define parameters along which certain values are variable as a function across a section. For instance, path length along a subset can be defined as a domain, the functions along which can then be defined later.\n\nThe user can select either individual sections, or groups and set precise parameters for length, diameter, area and length for that group or section. Any of these values can be set as a function of length or some other parameter of the corresponding section. The user can set the number of functional segments in a section, which is a strategy for spatial resolution. The higher the number of segments, the more precisely Neuron can handle a function in a section. Segments are the points where point process managers can be associated.\n\nUsers can define kinetic and electro-physiological functions across both subsets and sections. Neuron comes equipped with a probabilistic model of Hodgkin-Huxley Model giant squid axon kinetics, as well as a function to model passive leak channel kinetics. Both of these functions, and the features they describe, can be added to the membrane of the constructed cell. Values for leak rate, sodium conductance and potassium conductance can be set for modeling these kinetics can be set as functions over a parameterized domain. Channels become available for implementation in a cell membrane.\n\nThe user can generate both voltage- and ligand-gated channel models. Channel Builder supports local point channels, generally used for single, large channels whose function is to be modeled, and general channels whose density across the cell can be defined. Maximum conductance, reversal potential, ligand sensitivity, ion permeability, as well as precise dynamics of transitional states using activation and inactivation variables, and including differential conductance, can be defined.\n\nNeuron allows for the generation of mixed models, populated with both artificial cells and neurons. Artificial cells essentially function as point processes, implemented into the network. Artificial cells require only a point process, with defined parameters. The user can create the structure and dynamics of network cells. The user can create synapses, using simulated synapse point processes as archetypes. Parameters on these point processes can be manipulated to simulate both inhibitory and excitatory responses. Synapses can be placed on specific segments of the constructed cell, wherein, again, they will behave as point processes, except that they are sensitive to the activity of a pre-synaptic element. Cells can be managed. The user creates the basic grid of network cells, taking previously completed network cells as archetypes. Connections can be defined between source cells and target synapses on other cells. The cell containing the target synapse becomes the post-synaptic element, whereas the source cells function as pre-synaptic elements. Weights can be added to define strength of activation of a synapse by the pre-synaptic cell. A plot option can be activated to open a graph of spikes across time for individual neurons.\n\nNeuron comes equipped with a slew of simulation tools. Most notably, it includes several \"point processes,\" which are simple functions at a particular segment of a cell. Point processes include simulations of voltage, patch, single electrode and current clamps, as well as several simulated synapses. Synapse point processes are distinct for their ability to model stimulation intensities that vary non-linearly across time. These can be placed on any segment of any section of a built cell, individual or network, and their precise values, including amplitude and duration of stimulation, delay time of activation in a run and time decay parameters (for synapses), can be defined from the point process manager module. When implemented into a network as synapses, point process parameters are defined in the synapse builder for a particular network cell. Graphs describing voltage, conductance, and current axes over time can be used to describe changes in electrical state at the location of any segment on the cell. Neuron allows for graphs of change at both individual points over time, and across an entire section through time. Duration of run can be set. All point processes, including those standing for cells or synapses of artificial neurons, and all graphs reflect the duration.\n\nThis example creates a simple cell, with a single compartment soma and a multi compartment axon. It has the dynamics of the cell membrane simulated using Hodgkin-Huxley squid axon kinetics. The simulator stimulates the cell and runs for 50 ms.\n\nA plot can be generated showing the voltage traces starting from the soma and the distal end of the axon. The action potential at the end of the axon arrives slightly later than it appears in the soma at the point of stimulation. The plot is membrane voltage versus time.\n\n"}
{"id": "53003352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53003352", "title": "Neurovation Labs", "text": "Neurovation Labs\n\nNeurovation Labs, Inc. is a biotechnology company focused on diagnosing and treating anxiety disorders and in particular Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).\n\nNeurovation Labs, formed in 2016 and based in New York City, grew out of the research performed by Drs. Michael Fanselow and Jennifer Perusini that sought to understand the cause of PTSD on a physiological level. They discovered that PTSD is manifested through enduring increases in a certain protein (glutamate receptor subunit GluA1 or GRIA1) in the basolateral amygdala, which is a region of the brain central to fear learning. This protein increase provides the first possible objective indicator of PTSD. The discovery was made using a robust and valid model of PTSD in rodents, stress-enhanced fear learning (SEFL). The company is currently developing a PTSD diagnostic and a companion treatment based on these discoveries. Dr. Perusini is current CEO of Neurovation Labs. Dr. Fanselow currently acts as Director of Research and Richard Zemsky, J.D. is COO/ in-house counsel.\n\nIn October 2016, Neurovation Labs closed a seed funding round. The financing was completed with the support of individual angel investors based in the United States. The company intends to use the proceeds to further the development of its patent-pending PTSD diagnostic. In November 2017, Neurovation Labs launched PTSD Authority, a public service website that provides information, a resource and treatment guide, and interactive forums for all those affected by PTSD.\n\n"}
{"id": "52802478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52802478", "title": "Numerical algebraic geometry", "text": "Numerical algebraic geometry\n\nNumerical algebraic geometry is a field of computational mathematics, particularly computational algebraic geometry, which uses methods from numerical analysis to study and manipulate algebraic varieties on a computer.\n\nThe primary computational method used in numerical algebraic geometry is homotopy continuation, in which a homotopy is formed between two polynomial systems, and the isolated solutions (points) of one are continued to the other. This is a specification of the more general method of numerical continuation.\n\nLet formula_1 represent the variables of the system. By abuse of notation, and to facilitate the spectrum of ambient spaces over which one can solve system, we do not use vector notation for formula_1. Similarly for the polynomial systems formula_3 and formula_4.\n\nCurrent canonical notation calls the start system formula_4, and the target system – the system to solve – formula_3. A very common homotopy, the straight-line homotopy, between formula_3 and formula_4 is\nformula_9\n\nIn the above homotopy, one starts the path variable at formula_10 and continues toward formula_11. Another common choice is to run from formula_12 to formula_13. In principle, the choice is completely arbitrary. In practice, regarding endgame methods for computing singular solutions using homotopy continuation, the target time being formula_12 can significantly ease analysis, so this perspective is here taken. \n\nRegardless of the choice of start and target times, the formula_15 ought to be formulated such that formula_16, and formula_17.\n\nOne has a choice in formula_18, including\n\n\nand beyond these, specific start systems that closely mirror the structure of formula_3 may be formed for particular systems. The choice of start system impacts the computational time it takes to solve formula_3, in that those that are easy to formulate (such as total degree) tend to have higher numbers of paths to track, and those that take significant effort (such as the polyhedral method) are much sharper. There is currently no good way to predict which will lead to the quickest time to solve.\n\nActual continuation is typically done using predictor–corrector methods, with additional features as implemented. Predicting is done using a standard ODE predictor method, such as Runge–Kutta, and correction often uses Newton–Raphson iteration.\n\nBecause formula_3 and formula_4 are polynomial, homotopy continuation in this context is theoretically guaranteed to compute all solutions of formula_3, due to Bertini's theorem. However, this guarantee is not always achieved in practice, because of issues arising from limitations of the modern computer, most namely finite precision. That is, despite the strength of the probability-1 argument underlying this theory, without using a priori certified tracking methods, some paths may fail to track perfectly for various reasons.\n\nA witness set \nformula_24 is a data structure used to describe algebraic varieties. The witness set for an affine variety that is equidimensional consists of three pieces of information. The first piece of information is a system of equations formula_25. These equations define the algebraic variety formula_26 that is being studied. The second piece of information is a linear space formula_27. The dimension of formula_27 is the codimension of formula_26, and chosen to intersect formula_26 transversely. The third piece of information is the list of points in the intersection formula_31. This intersection has finitely many points and the number of points is the degree of the algebraic variety formula_26. Thus, witness sets encode the answer to the first two questions one asks about an algebraic variety: What is the dimension, and what is the degree? Witness sets also allow one to perform a numerical irreducible decomposition, component membership tests, and component sampling. This makes witness sets a good description of an algebraic variety.\n\nSolutions to polynomial systems computed using numerical algebraic geometric methods can be certified, meaning that the approximate solution is \"correct\". This can be achieved in several ways, either a priori using a certified tracker, or a posteriori by showing that the point is, say, in the basin of convergence for Newton's method.\n\nSeveral software packages implement portions of the theoretical body of numerical algebraic geometry. These include, in alphabetic order:\n\n\nOften researchers use results from both probabilistic symbolic computations and numerical computations to prove theorems. The notation \"Theorem Star\" is often used to indicate the reliance on such computations. \n\n"}
{"id": "15403775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15403775", "title": "Paul Kester", "text": "Paul Kester\n\nPaul Kester (November 2, 1870 – June 21, 1933) was an American playwright and novelist. He was the younger brother of journalist Vaughan Kester and a cousin of the literary editor and critic William Dean Howells.\n\nKester was born in 1870, some 30 miles north of Columbus at Delaware, Ohio. He was the younger of two sons raised by Franklin \"Frank\" Cooley and Harriet (née Watkins) Kester. His father was traveling salesman, and mother an art teacher who in 1882 helped found the Cleveland School of Art. Kester was educated by home tutors and at private schools where he excelled in the dramatic arts.\n\nHis first success came in January 1892 with \"Countess Roudine\", which premiered in Philadelphia at the Chestnut Street Theatre and opened a week later at the Union Square Theatre in New York City. \"Countess Roudine\" was a collaborative effort written with the actress Minnie Maddern Fiske.\n\nIn 1896 his adaptation of Edward Bulwer-Lytton's \"Eugene Aram\" was produced by Walker Whiteside's company and in 1902 with George Middleton adapted the George W. Cable Southern romance \"The Cavalier\" that was staged at the Criterion Theatre with Julia Marlowe. Actress Annie Russell produced and starred in his 1906 Quaker tale \"Friend Hannah\", written with the help of his brother, Vaughan.\n\nKester worked on nearly 30 plays over his career. His most successful Broadway effort was probably \"The Woman of Bronze\", which ran for 252 performances between September 1920 and April 1921 at Manhattan's Frazee Theatre. He also authored a number of books, with \"His Own Country\" (1917) most likely the more popular.\nDescribed as shy and diffident, Kester preferred country life to that of the city. In 1902, with his brother, he purchased and renovated Woodlawn Plantation in Northern Virginia. Five years later the two acquired nearby Gunston Hall, where Vaughan Kester died in 1911. A few years later Kester and his mother relocated to Belmont, an estate near Alexandria, Virginia, which is today part of the campus of St. Stephen's & St. Agnes School.\nKester spent his final years at Lake Mohegan, a small community near Peekskill, New York. He died there in 1933 at the age of 62, a victim of thrombosis. At the time the closest surviving member of his family was the mezzo-soprano opera singer Florence Wickham, a cousin. He is buried in the graveyard at Pohick Church, once the parish church of Gunston Hall, as is his mother; at one time he had served as a member of the church vestry.\n\nKester's Broadway credits are recorded at the Internet Broadway Database.\n\n\nMore information is available in the Paul Kester Papers at the New York Public Library.\n\n\nKester spoke of his novel \"His Own Country\" in the aftermath of World War I:\nThe Race problem is always with us, and as my story deals in a serious way with its more serious aspects, I do not think it can be untimely. New phases of this great problem come up from day to day – but the problem itself is as old as history – very likely it will remain a problem to the end of history. Racial differences and the prejudices resulting from them have always confronted practical statesmen. The old method of dealing with them was by conquest, subjugation, or extermination. Such methods are now obsolete. Better ones must be found. Understanding must precede intelligent action along any lines, and my reason – perhaps I would better say my justification – for writing \"His Own Country\" has been my hope and belief that it would bring some little considered phases of this menacing and mighty problem more clearly before the minds of readers who live remote from it, yet whose consent is necessary, as it should be in a democracy, to any adjustment of settlement of living conditions where the races are existing side by side.\n\nI want to go home<br> To the dull old town<br> With the shaded streets<br> And the open square<br> And the hill<br> And the flats<br>And the house I love<br> And the paths I know -<br> I want to go home.<br> If I can't go back<br> To the happy days,<br> Yet I can live<br> Where their shadows lie,<br> Under the trees<br> And over the grass -<br>I want to be there<br> Where the joy was once.<br> Oh, I want to go home,<br> I want to go home.\n\n"}
{"id": "36788975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36788975", "title": "Pauliina Aalto", "text": "Pauliina Aalto\n\nPauliina Aalto (born 25 November 1967) was a Finnish Ten-pin bowling player at International level.\n\nAalto was born in Helsinki in 1967. Aalto took up Ten-pin bowling in 1979. She took part World contest in 1993 where she won a Gold medal for the doubles. Between 1993 and 1997 she won numerous medals including 11 gold medals. Aalto and her partner organised a contest in 2008 in Lahti in Finland where they owned a bowls shop.\n"}
{"id": "3352973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3352973", "title": "Pederasty in ancient Greece", "text": "Pederasty in ancient Greece\n\nPederasty in ancient Greece was a socially acknowledged romantic relationship between an adult male (the \"erastes\") and a younger male (the \"eromenos\") usually in his teens. It was characteristic of the Archaic and Classical periods. The influence of pederasty on Greek culture of these periods was so pervasive that it has been called \"the principal cultural model for free relationships between citizens.\"\n\nSome scholars locate its origin in initiation ritual, particularly rites of passage on Crete, where it was associated with entrance into military life and the religion of Zeus. It has no formal existence in the Homeric epics, and seems to have developed in the late 7th century BC as an aspect of Greek homosocial culture, which was characterized also by athletic and artistic nudity, delayed marriage for aristocrats, symposia, and the social seclusion of women.\nPederasty was both idealized and criticized in ancient literature and philosophy. The argument has recently been made that idealization was universal in the Archaic period; criticism began in Athens as part of the general Classical Athenian reassessment of Archaic culture.\n\nScholars have debated the role or extent of pederasty, which is likely to have varied according to local custom and individual inclination. The English word \"pederasty\" in present-day usage might imply the abuse of minors in certain jurisdictions, but Athenian law, for instance, recognized consent but not age as a factor in regulating sexual behavior.\n\nThe Greek word \"paiderastia\" () is an abstract noun. It is formed from \"paiderastês\", which in turn is a compound of \"pais\" (\"child\", plural \"paides\") and \"erastês\" (see below). Although the word \"pais\" can refer to a child of either sex, \"paiderastia\" is defined by Liddell and Scott's \"Greek-English Lexicon\" as \"the love of boys\", and the verb \"paiderasteuein\" as \"to be a lover of boys\".\n\nSince the publication of Kenneth Dover's work \"Greek Homosexuality\", the terms \"erastês\" and \"erômenos\" have been standard for the two pederastic roles. Both words derive from the Greek verb \"erô\", \"erân\", \"to love\"; see also eros. In Dover's strict dichotomy, the \"erastês\" (, plural \"erastai\") is the older lover, seen as the active or dominant partner, with the suffix \"-tês\" (-) denoting agency. \"Erastês\" should be distinguished from Greek \"paiderastês\", which meant \"lover of boys\" usually with a negative connotation. The \"erastês\" himself might only be in his early twenties, and thus the age difference between the two lovers might be negligible.\n\nThe word \"erômenos\", or \"beloved\" (ἐρώμενος, plural \"eromenoi\"), is the masculine form of the present passive participle from \"erô\", viewed by Dover as the passive or subordinate partner. An \"erômenos\" can also be called \"pais\", \"child\". The \"pais\" was regarded as a future citizen, not an \"inferior object of sexual gratification\", and was portrayed with respect in art. The word can be understood as an endearment such as a parent might use, found also in the poetry of Sappho and a designation of only relative age. Both art and other literary references show that the \"erômenos\" was at least a teen, with modern age estimates ranging from 13 to 20, or in some cases up to 30. Most evidence indicates that to be an eligible \"erômenos\", a youth would be of an age when an aristocrat began his formal military training, that is, from fifteen to seventeen. As an indication of physical maturity, the \"erômenos\" was sometimes as tall as or taller than the older \"erastês\", and may have his first facial hair. Another word used by the Greeks for the younger partner was \"paidika\", a neuter plural adjective (\"things having to do with children\") treated syntactically as masculine singular.\n\nIn poetry and philosophical literature, the \"erômenos\" is often an embodiment of idealized youth; a related ideal depiction of youth in Archaic culture was the \"kouros\", the long-haired male statuary nude. In \"The Fragility of Goodness\", Martha Nussbaum, following Dover, defines the ideal \"erômenos\" as\na beautiful creature without pressing needs of his own. He is aware of his attractiveness, but self-absorbed in his relationship with those who desire him. He will smile sweetly at the admiring lover; he will show appreciation for the other's friendship, advice, and assistance. He will allow the lover to greet him by touching, affectionately, his genitals and his face, while he looks, himself, demurely at the ground. … The inner experience of an \"erômenos\" would be characterized, we may imagine, by a feeling of proud self-sufficiency. Though the object of importunate solicitation, he is himself not in need of anything beyond himself. He is unwilling to let himself be explored by the other's needy curiosity, and he has, himself, little curiosity about the other. He is something like a god, or the statue of a god.\nDover insisted that the active role of the \"erastês\" and the passivity of the \"erômenos\" is a distinction \"of the highest importance\", but subsequent scholars have tried to present a more varied picture of the behaviors and values associated with \"paiderastia\". Although ancient Greek writers use \"erastês\" and \"erômenos\" in a pederastic context, the words are not technical terms for social roles, and can refer to the \"lover\" and \"beloved\" in other hetero- and homosexual couples.\n\nThe Greek practice of pederasty came suddenly into prominence at the end of the Archaic period of Greek history; there is a brass plaque from Crete, about 650-625 BC, which is the oldest surviving representation of pederastic custom. Such representations appear from all over Greece in the next century; literary sources show it as being established custom in many cities by the 5th century BC.\n\nCretan pederasty as a social institution seems to have been grounded in an initiation which involved abduction. A man ( – \"philetor\", \"lover\") selected a youth, enlisted the chosen one's friends to help him, and carried off the object of his affections to his \"andreion\", a sort of men's club or meeting hall. The youth received gifts, and the \"philetor\" along with the friends went away with him for two months into the countryside, where they hunted and feasted. At the end of this time, the \"philetor\" presented the youth with three contractually required gifts: military attire, an ox, and a drinking cup. Other costly gifts followed. Upon their return to the city, the youth sacrificed the ox to Zeus, and his friends joined him at the feast. He received special clothing that in adult life marked him as \"kleinos\", \"famous, renowned\". The initiate was called a \"parastatheis\", \"he who stands beside\", perhaps because, like Ganymede the cup-bearer of Zeus, he stood at the side of the \"philetor\" during meals in the \"andreion\" and served him from the cup that had been ceremonially presented. In this interpretation, the formal custom reflects myth and ritual.\n\nThe erastes-eromenos relationship played a role in the Classical Greek social and educational system, had its own complex social-sexual etiquette and was an important social institution among the upper classes. Pederasty has been understood as educative, and Greek authors from Aristophanes to Pindar felt it naturally present in the context of aristocratic education (\"paideia\"). In general, pederasty as described in the Greek literary sources is an institution reserved for free citizens, perhaps to be regarded as a dyadic mentorship: \"pederasty was widely accepted in Greece as part of a male's coming-of-age, even if its function is still widely debated.\"\n\nIn Crete, in order for the suitor to carry out the ritual abduction, the father had to approve him as worthy of the honor. Among the Athenians, as Socrates claims in Xenophon's \"Symposium,\" \"Nothing [of what concerns the boy] is kept hidden from the father, by an ideal lover.\" In order to protect their sons from inappropriate attempts at seduction, fathers appointed slaves called \"pedagogues\" to watch over their sons. However, according to Aeschines, Athenian fathers would pray that their sons would be handsome and attractive, with the full knowledge that they would then attract the attention of men and \"be the objects of fights because of erotic passions\".\n\nThe age-range when boys entered into such relationships was consonant with that of Greek girls given in marriage, often to adult husbands many years their senior. Boys, however, usually had to be courted and were free to choose their mate, while marriages for girls were arranged for economic and political advantage at the discretion of father and suitor. These connections were also an advantage for a youth and his family, as the relationship with an influential older man resulted in an expanded social network. Thus, some considered it desirable to have had many admirers or mentors, if not necessarily lovers per se, in one’s younger years. Typically, after their sexual relationship had ended and the young man had married, the older man and his protégé would remain on close terms throughout their life. For those lovers who continued their lovemaking after their beloveds had matured, the Greeks made allowances, saying, \"You can lift up a bull, if you carried the calf.\"\n\nIn parts of Greece, pederasty was an acceptable form of homoeroticism that had other, less socially accepted manifestations, such as the sexual use of slaves or being a \"pornos\" (prostitute) or \"hetairos\" (the male equivalent of a hetaira). Male prostitution was treated as a perfectly routine matter and visiting prostitutes of either sex was considered completely acceptable for a male citizen. However, adolescent citizens of free status who prostituted themselves were sometimes ridiculed, and were permanently prohibited by Attic law from performing some seven official functions because it was believed that since they had sold their own body \"for the pleasure of others\" ( \"eph’ hybrei\"), they would not hesitate to sell the interests of the community as a whole. If they, or an adult citizen of free status who had prostituted himself, performed any of the official functions prohibited to them by law (in later life), they were liable to prosecution and punishment. However, if they did not perform those specific functions, did not present themselves for the allocation of those functions and declared themselves ineligible if they were somehow mistakenly elected to perform those specific functions, they were safe from prosecution and punishment. As non-citizens visiting or residing in a city-state could not perform official functions in any case whatsoever, they could prostitute themselves as much as they wanted.\n\nTransgressions of the customs pertaining to the proper expression of homosexuality within the bounds of \"pederaistia\" could be used to damage the reputation of a public figure. In his speech \"Against Timarchus\" in 346 BC, the Athenian politician Aeschines argues against further allowing Timarchus, an experienced middle-aged politician, certain political rights as Attic law prohibited anyone who had prostituted himself from exercising those rights and Timarchus was known to have spent his adolescence as the sexual partner of a series of wealthy men in order to obtain money. Such a law existed because it was believed that anyone who had sold their own body would not hesitate to sell the interests of the city-state. Aeschines won his case, and Timarchus was sentenced to \"atimia\" (disenfranchisement and civic disempowerment). Aeschines acknowledges his own dalliances with beautiful boys, the erotic poems he dedicated to these youths, and the scrapes he has gotten into as a result of his affairs, but emphasizes that none of these were mediated by money. A financial motive thus was viewed as threatening a man's status as free.\n\nBy contrast, as expressed in Pausanias' speech in Plato's \"Symposium,\" pederastic love was said to be favorable to democracy and feared by tyrants, because the bond between the \"erastes\" and \"eromenos\" was stronger than that of obedience to a despotic ruler. Athenaeus states that \"Hieronymus the Aristotelian says that love with boys was fashionable because several tyrannies had been overturned by young men in their prime, joined together as comrades in mutual sympathy.\" He gives as examples of such pederastic couples the Athenians Harmodius and Aristogeiton, who were credited (perhaps symbolically) with the overthrow of the tyrant Hippias and the establishment of the democracy, and also Chariton and Melanippus. Others, such as Aristotle, claimed that the Cretan lawgivers encouraged pederasty as a means of population control, by directing love and sexual desire into non-procreative channels:\n\nand the lawgiver has devised many wise measures to secure the benefit of moderation at table, and the segregation of the women in order that they may not bear many children, for which purpose he instituted association with the male sex.\n\nSocrates' love of Alcibiades, which was more than reciprocated, is held as an example of chaste pederasty.. Socrates remarks in the dialogue Phaedrus that sexual pederasty is driven by the appetital part of the soul, but can be balanced by self-control and reason. He likens wanton lust for a boy to allowing a disobedient horse to control a chariot, but remarks that sexual desire for a boy if combined with a love for their other qualities is acceptable.\n\nPhaedrus in Plato's Symposium remarks:\nFor I know not any greater blessing to a young man who is beginning in life than a virtuous lover, or to a lover than a beloved youth. For the principle, I say, neither kindred, nor honor, nor wealth, nor any motive is able to implant so well as love. Of what am I speaking? Of the sense of honor and dishonor, without which neither states nor individuals ever do any good or great work… And if there were only some way of contriving that a state or an army should be made up of lovers and their loves, they would be the very best governors of their own city, abstaining from all dishonor and emulating one another in honor; and it is scarcely an exaggeration to say that when fighting at each other’s side, although a mere handful, they would overcome the world.\nIn Laws, Plato takes a much more austere stance to homosexuality than in previous works, stating:\n\nPlato states here that \"we all\", possibly referring to society as a whole or simply his social group, believe the story of Ganymede's homosexuality to have been fabricated by the Cretans to justify immoral behaviours. \n\nThe Athenian stranger in Plato's \"Laws\" blames pederasty for promoting civil strife and driving many to their wits' end, and recommends the prohibition of sexual intercourse with youths, laying out a path whereby this may be accomplished.\n\nThe myth of Ganymede's abduction by Zeus was invoked as a precedent for the pederastic relationship, as Theognis asserts to a friend:\nThere is some pleasure in loving a boy \"(paidophilein)\", since once in fact even the son of Cronus \"(that is, Zeus)\", king of immortals, fell in love with Ganymede, seized him, carried him off to Olympus, and made him divine, keeping the lovely bloom of boyhood \"(paideia)\". So, don't be astonished, Simonides, that I too have been revealed as captivated by love for a handsome boy.\nThe myth of Ganymede's abduction, however, was not taken seriously by some in Athenian society, and deemed to be a Cretan fabrication designed to justify their homoeroticism.\n\nThe scholar Joseph Pequigney states:\n\nThe 5th century BC poet Pindar constructed the story of a sexual pederastic relationship between Poseidon and Pelops, this was intended to replace an earlier story of cannibalism that Pindar deemed an unsavoury representation of the Gods. The story tells of Poseidon's love for a mortal boy, Pelops, who wins a chariot race with help from his admirer Poseidon. \n\nThough examples of such a custom exist in earlier Greek works, myths providing examples of young men who were the lovers of gods began to emerge in classical literature, around the 6th century BC. In these later tales, pederastic love is ascribed to Zeus (with Ganymede), Poseidon (with Pelops), Apollo (with Cyparissus, Hyacinthus and Adnetus), Orpheus, Heracles, Dionysus, Hermes, and Pan. All the Olympian gods except Ares are purported to have had these relationships, which some scholars argue demonstrates that the specific customs of \"paiderastia\" originated in initiatory rituals.\n\nMyths attributed to the homosexuality of Dionysus are very late and often post-pagan additions. The tale of Dionyssus and Ampelos was written by the Egyptian poet Nonnus some time between the 4th and 5th centuries AD, making it unreliable. Likewise, the tale of Dionysus and Polymnus, which tells that the former anally masturbated with a fig branch over the latter's grave, was written by Christians, whose aim was to discredit pagan mythology.\n\nDover, however, believed that these myths are only literary versions expressing or explaining the \"overt\" homosexuality of Greek archaic culture, the distinctiveness of which he contrasted to attitudes in other ancient societies such as Egypt and Israel.\n\nGreek vase painting is a major source for scholars seeking to understand attitudes and practices associated with \"paiderastia\". Hundreds of pederastic scenes are depicted on Attic black-figure vases. In the early 20th century, John Beazley classified pederastic vases into three types:\n\nCertain gifts traditionally given by the \"eromenos\" become symbols that contribute to interpreting a given scene as pederastic. Animal gifts—most commonly hares and roosters, but also deer and felines—point toward hunting as an aristocratic pastime and as a metaphor for sexual pursuit.\n\nThe explicit nature of some images has led in particular to discussions of whether the \"eromenos\" took active pleasure in the sex act. The youthful beloved is never pictured with an erection; his penis \"remains flaccid even in circumstances to which one would expect the penis of any healthy adolescent to respond willy-nilly\". Fondling the youth's genitals was one of the most common images of pederastic courtship on vases, a gesture indicated also in Aristophanes' comedy \"Birds\" (line 142). Some vases do show the younger partner as sexually responsive, prompting one scholar to wonder, \"What can the point of this act have been unless lovers in fact derived some pleasure from feeling and watching the boy's developing organ wake up and respond to their manual stimulation?\"\n\nChronological study of the vase paintings also reveals a changing aesthetic in the depiction of the \"erômenos\". In the 6th century BC, he is a young beardless man with long hair, of adult height and physique, usually nude. As the 5th century begins, he has become smaller and slighter, \"barely pubescent\", and often draped as a girl would be. No inferences about social customs should be based on this element of the courtship scene alone.\n\nThere are many pederastic references among the works of the Megaran poet Theognis addressed to Cyrnus (Greek \"Kyrnos\"). Some portions of the Theognidean corpus are probably not by the individual from Megara, but rather represent \"several generations of wisdom poetry\". The poems are \"social, political, or ethical precepts transmitted to Cyrnus as part of his formation into an adult Megarian aristocrat in Theognis' own image\".\n\nThe relationship between Theognis and Kyrnos eludes categorization. Although it was assumed in antiquity that Kyrnos was the poet's \"eromenos\", the poems that are most explicitly erotic are not addressed to him; the poetry on \"the joys and sorrows\" of pederasty seem more apt for sharing with a fellow \"erastes\", perhaps in the setting of the symposium: \"the relationship, in any case, is left vague.\" In general, Theognis (and the tradition that appears under his name) treats the pederastic relationship as heavily pedagogical.\n\nThe poetic traditions of Ionia and Aeolia featured poets such as Anacreon, Mimnermus and Alcaeus, who composed many of the sympotic skolia that were to become later part of the mainland tradition. Ibycus came from Rhegium in the Greek west and entertained the court of Polycrates in Samos with pederastic verses. By contrast with Theognis, these poets portray a version of pederasty that is non-pedagogical, focused exclusively on love and seduction. Theocritus, a Hellenistic poet, describes a kissing contest for youths that took place at the tomb of a certain Diocles, renowned for friendship; he notes that invoking Ganymede was proper to the occasion.\n\nVase paintings and references to the eromenos's thighs in poetry indicate that when the pederastic couple engaged in sex acts, the preferred form was intercrural. To preserve his dignity and honor, the \"erômenos\" limits the man who desires him to penetration between closed thighs.\n\nThere are no known visual depictions of Anal sex between pederastic couples, though this does not prove the behavior did not occur. Some vase paintings, which Percy considers a fourth type of pederastic scene in addition to Beazley's three, show the \"erastês\" seated with an erection and the \"erômenos\" either approaching or climbing into his lap. The composition of these scenes is the same as that for depictions of women mounting men who are seated and aroused for intercourse. As a cultural norm considered apart from personal preference, anal penetration was most often seen as dishonorable to the one penetrated, or shameful, because of \"its potential appearance of being turned into a woman\" and because it was feared that it may distract the \"erômenos\" from playing the active, penetrative role later in life. A fable attributed to Aesop tells how Aeschyne (Shame) consented to enter the human body from behind only as long as Eros did not follow the same path, and would fly away at once if he did. A man who acted as the receiver during anal intercourse may have been the recipient of the insult \"kinaidos\", meaning effeminate. No shame was associated with intercrural penetration or any other act that did not involve anal penetration. Oral sex is likewise not depicted, or directly suggested, anal or oral penetration seems to have been reserved for prostitutes or slaves.\n\nDover maintained that the erômenos was ideally not supposed to feel \"unmanly\" desire for the erastês. Nussbaum argues that the depiction of the erômenos as deriving no sexual pleasure from sex with the erastês \"may well be a cultural norm that conceals a more complicated reality\", as the erômenos is known to have frequently felt intense affection for his erastês and there is evidence that he experienced sexual arousal with him as well. In Plato's \"Phaedrus\", it is related that, with time, the erômenos develops a \"passionate longing\" for his erastês and a \"reciprocal love\" (\"anteros\") for him that is a replica of the erastês' love. The eromenos is also said to have a desire \"similar to the erastes', albeit weaker, to see, to touch, to kiss and to lie with him\".\n\nUnlike the Dorians, where a lover would usually have only one eromenos, in the east a man might have several eromenoi over the course of his life. From the poems of Alcaeus we learn that the lover would customarily invite his eromenos to dine with him.\n\nThe nature of this relationship is in dispute among ancient sources, and modern historians. \n\nSpartan views on pederasty and homoeroticism were much more austere than those of other parts of Greece.\n\nXenophon says in Constitution of the Lacaedemonians that Spartan customs were unsuited to pederasty: a man might aim for idealized friendship with a boy but a sexual relationship was considered \"an abomination\" tantamount to incest. Aelian's Historical Miscellany talks about the responsibilities of an older Spartan citizen to younger inexperienced male lovers. Thomas F. Scanlon believes Sparta, during its Dorian polis time, is thought to be the first city to practice athletic nudity, and one of the first to formalize pederasty.\n\nMegara cultivated good relations with Sparta, and may have been culturally attracted to emulate Spartan practices in the 7th century, when pederasty is postulated to have first been formalized in Dorian cities. One of the first cities after Sparta to be associated with the custom of athletic nudity, Megara was home to the runner Orsippus who was famed as the first to run the footrace naked at the Olympic Games and \"first of all Greeks to be crowned victor naked\". In one poem, the Megaran poet Theognis saw athletic nudity as a prelude to pederasty: \"Happy is the lover who works out naked / And then goes home to sleep all day with a beautiful boy.\"\n\nIn Athens, as elsewhere, \"pederastia\" appears to have been a characteristic of the aristocracy. Attic pottery is a major source for modern scholars attempting to understand the institution of pederasty. The age of youth depicted has been estimated variously from 12 to 18. A number of Athenian laws addressed the pederastic relationship.\n\nIn Thebes, the main polis in Boeotia, renowned for its practice of pederasty, the tradition was enshrined in the founding myth of the city. In this instance the story was meant to teach by counterexample: it depicts Laius, one of the mythical ancestors of the Thebans, in the role of a lover who betrays the father and rapes the son. Another Boeotian pederastic myth is the story of Narcissus.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, Theban pederasty was instituted as an educational device for boys in order to \"soften, while they were young, their natural fierceness, and to \"temper the manners and characters of the youth\". According to a tradition, The Sacred Band of Thebes comprised pederastic couples.\n\nBoeotian pottery, in contrast to that of Athens, does not exhibit the three types of pederastic scenes identified by Beazley. The limited survival and cataloguing of pottery that can be proven to have been made in Boeotia diminishes the value of this evidence in distinguishing a specifically local tradition of \"paiderastia\".\n\nThe ethical views held in ancient societies, such as Athens, Thebes, Crete, Sparta, Elis and others, on the practice of pederasty have been explored by scholars only since the end of the 19th century. One of the first to do so was John Addington Symonds, who wrote his seminal work \"A Problem in Greek Ethics\" in 1873, but after a private edition of 10 copies (1883) only in 1901 could the work really be published, in revised form. Edward Carpenter expanded the scope of the study, with his 1914 work, \"Intermediate Types among Primitive Folk\". The text examines homoerotic practices of all types, not only pederastic ones, and ranges over cultures spanning the whole globe. In Germany the work was continued by classicist Paul Brandt writing under the pseudonym Hans Licht, who published his \"Sexual Life in Ancient Greece\" in 1932.\n\nMainstream Ancient Greek studies however had historically omitted references of the widespread practice of homosexuality. E. M. Forster's 1914 novel \"Maurice\" makes reference to modern European ambivalence toward this aspect of ancient Greek culture in a scene where a Cambridge professor, leading a group of students in translating an ancient Greek text says, \"Omit the reference to the unspeakable vice of the Greeks.\" Later in the 1940s H. Mitchell wrote: \"This aspect of Greek morals is an extraordinary one, into which, for the sake of our equanimity, it is unprofitable to pry too closely\". It would not be until 1978 and K. J. Dover's book \"Greek Homosexuality,\" that the topic would be widely and frankly discussed.\n\nDover's work triggered a number of debates which still continue. Sociologist of the 20th century Michel Foucault declared that pederasty was \"problematized\" in Greek culture, that it was \"the object of a special—and especially intense—moral preoccupation\", which was \"subjected to an interplay of positive and negative interplays so complex as to make the ethics that governed it difficult to decipher\", focusing on concern with the chastity/moderation of the \"erōmenos\" (the term used for the \"beloved\" youth). A modern line of thought leading from Dover to Foucault to Halperin holds that the erōmenos did not reciprocate the love and desire of the erastes, and that the relationship was factored on a sexual domination of the younger by the older, a politics of penetration held to be true of all adult male Athenians' relations with their social inferiors—boys, women and slaves—a theory propounded also by Eva Keuls. From this perspective, the relationships are characterized and factored on a power differential between the participants, and as essentially asymmetrical.\n\nOther scholars point to artwork on vases, poetry and philosophical works such as the Platonic discussion of anteros, \"love returned\", all of which show tenderness and desire and love on the part of the eromenos matching and responding to that of the erastes. Critics of Dover and his followers also point out that they ignore all material which argued against their \"overly theoretical\" interpretation of a human and emotional relationship and counter that \"Clearly, a mutual, consensual bond was formed\", and that it is \"a modern fairy tale that the younger eromenos was never aroused\".\n\nHalperin's position has been criticized as a \"persistently negative and judgmental rhetoric implying exploitation and domination as the fundamental characteristics of pre-modern sexual models\" and challenged as a polemic of \"mainstream assimilationist gay apologists\" and an attempt to \"demonize and purge from the movement\" all non-orthodox male sexualities, especially that involving adults and adolescents.\n\nAs classical historian Robin Osborne has pointed out, historical discussion of \"paiderastia\" is complicated by 21st-century moral standards:\nIt is the historian's job to draw attention to the personal, social, political and indeed moral issues behind the literary and artistic representations of the Greek world. The historian's job is to present pederasty and all, to make sure that … we come face to face with the way the glory that was Greece was part of a world in which many of our own core values find themselves challenged rather than reinforced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24071378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24071378", "title": "Pressed Steel Car strike of 1909", "text": "Pressed Steel Car strike of 1909\n\nThe Pressed Steel Car strike of 1909, also known as the \"1909 McKees Rocks strike,\" was an American labor strike which lasted from July 13 through September 8. The walkout drew national attention when it climaxed on Sunday August 22 in a bloody battle between strikers, private security agents, and the Pennsylvania State Police. At least 12 people died, and perhaps as many as 26. The strike was the major industrial labor dispute in the Pittsburgh district after the famous 1892 Homestead strike and was a precursor to the Great Steel Strike of 1919.\n\nFrank Norton Hoffstot's Pressed Steel Car Company, sited downstream from Pittsburgh on the south bank of the Ohio River in McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania, manufactured passenger and freight railroad cars on an assembly-line basis. It was America's second-largest rail car producer. Pressed Steel employed a workforce of 6,000, most foreign born, comprising 16 distinct ethnicities. The firm was infamous for its style of industrial peonage with immigrant workers.\n\nWorking conditions in the plant were primitive even by Pittsburgh standards. Pressed Steel Car Company was locally called \"The Last Chance\" and \"The Slaughterhouse\". \"Men are persecuted, robbed, and slaughtered, and their wives are abused in a manner worse than death—all to obtain or retain positions that barely keep starvation from the door,\" said Rev. A.F. Toner, a priest at St. Mary Roman Catholic Church in McKees Rocks, in an interview with \"The Pittsburgh Leader\". The local coroner, Joseph G. Armstrong, estimated that deaths in the plant averaged about one a day and were often caused by moving cranes. One of the charges made by Slavic immigrant workers was that wives and daughters were subject to sexual harassment to repay food and rental debts to the company agents.\nParticularly galling to the workers was the use of the Baldwin contract, commonly known as \"pooling.\" Under this system, jobs were parceled out in lots by a foreman who contracted that it be done for a given sum, with the money paid to be divided pro rata by the men under him. The system was rife with corruption, with workers often paying substantial kickbacks to the foreman to retain their jobs. The system resulted in unpredictable and often insufficient rates of pay, as one sympathetic journalist reported:\n\nAdding further to the destabilizing misery was the company-owned housing, ramshackle dwellings housing six families and renting for $12 a month. Moreover, the company owned the stores from which the workers had to buy their provisions at inflated prices, lest they lose their jobs. The system of economic domination was particularly severe and there came a day when the breaking point was reached.\n\nThe strike was triggered on Saturday July 10, a payday on which many workers were shorter in their pay than usual. The men demanded an explanation; management refused to speak with the workers' representatives. James Rider, manager of The Pressed Steel Car Company, responded by hiring Pearl Bergoff, the notorious owner of strike-breaking paramilitary force. The first fatality was an immigrant striker named Stephen Horvat, shot and killed by a black strikebreaker called Major Smith. Two days later Berghoff had deployed 500 strikebreakers to the plant, most entering quietly by rail, although a boat called \"Steel Queen\" carrying 300 was rebuffed, at least initially, by strikers' gunfire on the shore.\n\nThe next day 200 state constables and 300 deputy sheriffs insured the safety of the strikebreakers and also began evicting strikers from company houses. \"The New York Times\" reported, \"The illiterate foreigners were like so many savages today when they first caught sight of the khaki-clad constabulary who had come in during the night.\"\n\nThe strikers were joined by members of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), especially William Trautmann, one of its founders. Trautmann later published a novel, \"Riot\", about the McKees Rocks strike. After Trautmann's arrest for strike organizing activities, Joe Ettor replaced him, and IWW leader Big Bill Haywood also arrived to rally strikers.\n\nIn all, some 5,000 workers of the Pressed Steel Car Company's plant at McKees Rock went out on strike. These were joined by 3,000 others who worked for the Standard Steel Car Company of Butler and others in New Castle.\n\nAn adjacent company-owned community, Presston (called Schoenville at the time and popularly referred to as \"Hunky Town\"), was at the heart of the strike. Presston workers were kept in constant debt to the company store and those behind in rent were evicted. On Saturday August 21 Deputy Sheriff Harry Exley assisted in one eviction by placing a baby buggy on top of a wagon laden with a Presston family's possessions. A photographer captured the moment. When it was printed in a Pittsburgh newspaper, the photo whipped up public sympathy for the strikers.\n\nThis set up the confrontation of the next day, August 22, \"Bloody Sunday\". A crowd of thousands of strikers who'd set up a checkpoint identified Exley, in civilian clothes, and targeted him for retaliation. In a fury the mob killed him, and clashed with Pennsylvania State Police mounted on horseback, called \"Black Cossacks\" by immigrant Slav workers. One local source put the number of dead at sixteen, which includes Exley, two state troopers, and three strikers. Perhaps ten others were gravely hurt, \"while scores were wounded by being shot in the legs, hit by bricks and clubbed into unconsciousness by the constabulary.\" Martial law was declared the next day.\n\nThe strike was settled on September 8 when Pressed Steel Car agreed to a wage increase, the posting of wage rates, and ending abuses in company housing practices.\n\nBefore the strike was over, and then in more detail in 1911, the strikebreakers appeared before federal panels to describe their own living and working conditions after they were brought to the conflict. Held inside the plant or in boxcars against their will, fleeced, stolen from, physically threatened, and given rotten food, one hearing witness collapsed and was diagnosed with ptomaine poisoning. Two hundred of the strikebreakers had responded by banding together in their own improvised union. They'd quit work and were camping on the nearby banks of the Ohio River in an attempt to collect back wages, naming Chief of Police Farrell of the Coal and Iron Police and Pearl Bergoff's lieutenant Sam Cohen as those most responsible. Lawyer for the strikebreakers was the ambitious William N. McNair, who alleged that this treatment amounted to peonage. McNair would later serve one chaotic term as Mayor of Pittsburgh in 1934.\n\nOn August 22, 2009 the Pennsylvania Labor History Society and the Pennsylvania Historical & Museum Commission dedicated a state historical marker there to commemorate the strike's centennial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39126804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39126804", "title": "Rationalist humanism", "text": "Rationalist humanism\n\nRationalist humanism, or rational humanism or rationalistic humanism, is one of the strands of Age of Enlightenment. It had its roots in Renaissance, as a response to Middle Age religious integralism and obscurantism. Rationalist humanism tradition includes Tocqueville and Montesquieu, and in the 19th century, Élie Halévy.\n\nOther strands of the Enlightenment included scientific naturalism. In the mid 20th century, rational humanism represented also an alternative for those that did not embrace Sartre's existentialism. In the late 20th century, it has sided against the equiparation of human rights with rights to other animal species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44442324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44442324", "title": "Roy Bent", "text": "Roy Bent\n\nRoy Bent (1900 – 7 October 1975) was an Australian rules footballer who played with the Norwood Football Club in the South Australian Football Association. He was the competitions leading goal kicker on four occasions 1921, 1924, 1925 and 1926. Late in the 1923 minor round Roy Bent was suspended for six matches for throwing the ball at a boundary umpire and 'bruising his chest'. Later in the year he was jokingly awarded a leather medal in remembrance of his suspension. He was killed in a car accident in 1975.\n"}
{"id": "43800804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43800804", "title": "Shenzhou 11", "text": "Shenzhou 11\n\nShenzhou 11 was a manned spaceflight of the Shenzhou program of China, launched on 17 October 2016 (16 October UTC) from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center. It was China's sixth manned space mission. Two days after launch, it docked with the Tiangong-2 space laboratory, which had been launched on September 15, 2016.\n\nThe crew consisted of two astronauts.\n\nThe mission selected two crew instead of three to extend supplies to increase mission length for their long duration stay.\n\nThe Shenzhou 11 launched at 07:30 on 17 October 2016 local time (23:30 UTC on 16 October) from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center using a Long March 2F launch rocket. \n\nThe mission's main objective was to rendezvous and dock with the Tiangong-2 space laboratory and gain experience from a 30-day residence, and to test its life-support systems. The Tianzhou 1 cargo vehicle will also dock with the station to deliver supplies.\n\nIn the two days after the launch, it changed its orbit five times to arrive 52 kilometers behind the Tiangong-2 space lab. It autonomously rendezvoused and docked with Tiangong-2 at 3:24 p.m. EDT in October 18, 2016, while both spacecraft were at an altitude of .\n\nThe crew landed successfully after the 33-day mission on 18 November 2016.The reentry module of the Shenzhou-11 spacecraft landed in Siziwang Banner, Inner Mongolia around 2:15 pm (China time) after undocking from the space lab on 17 November.\n\n"}
{"id": "51125950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51125950", "title": "Soledad Cazorla", "text": "Soledad Cazorla\n\nSoledad Cazorla Prieto (19 February 1955 – 4 May 2015) was a jurist and the first Spanish prosecutor against gender violence. She directed a network of fiscal specialists who worked in this field in Spain after the creation of the 2004 Integral Law against Gender Violence. She held the position for a decade, from 2005 until her death. Remembered as a defender of equality, her professional career was closely linked to the development of this law.\n\nCazorla was born in 1955 in Larache, then a Spanish protectorate in Morocco, where her family had emigrated at the close of the 19th century. Her father was a military officer of high rank. Her older brother, Luis María Cazorla, is also a jurist. She started her career in 1981 at the Fiscalía of Girona. In 1984, she moved to Valladolid. In 1985, she joined the Audiencia Territorial de Madrid, followed by the Inspection Office of the Fiscalía General del Estado in 1993, and afterwards, the Secretaría Técnica.\n\nIn September 1996, she was appointed public prosecutor of the High Court, where she gained, between other responsibilities, a public indictment against Mario Conde in the Banesto case.\n\nIn 2005, she rose to Public Prosecutor in the Section against Violence towards Woman she had proposed to the fiscal general of the State, Cándido Conde-Pumpido, and in October 2010, she was re-appointed. The section formed part of the Observation Against Gender Violence.\n\nCazorla participated in international meetings in defence of women's rights (France, United Kingdom, Morocco, Dominican Republic, Bolivia, Ecuador, China or Niger) as a national jurist, collaborating in publications and articles concerning different matters related with Penal Laws.\n\nAs a defender of equality, and with a high personal commitment and professional interest in the fight against gender violence, her professional career was closely linked to the development of this law in Spain, especially, in the need to protect children who coexist with the hard reality of violence against mothers.\n\nCazorla was married to the journalist Joaquín Tagar and had 3 children. She died of stroke in Madrid on 4 May 2015 .\n\n"}
{"id": "24983621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24983621", "title": "The Unconquerable World", "text": "The Unconquerable World\n\nThe Unconquerable World: Power, Nonviolence, and The Will of the People is a book on the power of nonviolence by Jonathan Schell published in 2003.\n\nSchell starts by discussing the cultural embeddedness of men, patriotism and death in battle (going back to the Athenian - Pericles). From this classic root political morality has held onto the need for 'standing up for principles with force', which in practice quickly descends to \"plunder, exploitation and massacre\".\n\nIn the 5th century, St. Augustine conjoined this with Christian love... by theorising 'separate realms' for political and religious morality. Politics has thus long been wedded to violence... it is hard to conceptualise a political ideology that does not have a resort to violence clause. As Schell says there has been, \"an age old reliance of politics on violent means\". (p. 4)\n\nSchell then puts forward his main thesis that \"violence has now become dysfunctional as a political instrument\" (p. 7) and that \"forms of non-violent action can serve effectively in the place of violence at every level of political affairs\". (p. 8)\n\nThe key political progress has been the idea of democracy - even the worst democracy - carries within it the principle of equality which is a deeply seated contradiction to an also deeply embedded practice of inequality - see Tocqueville. Ironically modern national democracy allowed for a new kind of army, in which it was possible to mobilise masses of men prepared to die - apparently in defence of their own national interest and the principle of democracy. The disaster of the modern war system was fed by an unholy confluence of democracy, science, industrial revolution, and imperialism which developed through the 19th century.\n\nPower came to be widely defined by the ability to wage war. He describes imperialism as \"a monotonous record of one sided slaughter\" (p. 75) He argues that there was an end of limited war between 'great powers' after 1870 (p. 44). After that we had 1914 and the period of total or world war until 1946. Then the period of Cold War in which the public appearances of a strategic balance of power became more important than the reality of a balance of actual power. The A-bomb made a balance of actual power obsolete (p. 62).\n\nThe first modern people's war was the Spanish resistance to the French invasion 1807-14 (p. 68). A people's war that showed how a superior force can be worn down by lesser military strength contrary to the classic rules of conventional warfare. The main need was to endure, and an armed population. George Washington also understood this need to endure. \"Washington was always aware that his most important task was to insure the survival of his own forces - not strictly for military purposes but to personify the unconquerable will of the American people\" (p. 157).\n\nThe big downside of people's war is that the whole people then become subject to retaliation (p. 81). In the Japanese retaliation against the Chinese communists, the population dropped from 45 million to 25 million. With this level of violence, political ideals are what buoys the resistance up. It also allowed humanitarian treatment of prisoners by the communist forces to be maintained. \n\nIn a people's war it is important that war is kept subordinate to politics. This is the first stage of extracting politics from the war machine. Politics here means the creation of a civil administration from the ground up. For Mao the most important goal and foundation of this politics was the redistribution of land from rich to poor.\n\nA militarised politics can easily segue into a totalitarian politics as it did in China via conventional warfare against the American-backed Kuomintang. \n\nPeople's war became the principal instrument of self-determination and social change in the third world from around the 1950s. If a population is united, an imperial war against it is difficult to win. Charles de Gaulle understood this in relation to Algeria in 1958. Even when he had achieved a military victory it did not lead to a political one.\n\nThe nuclear standoff produced a stalemate in the war system. The last resort was unusable. '\"In both (nuclear deterrence and people war) violence became not so much an instrument for producing physical effects as a kind of bloody system of communication, through which the antagonists produced messages to one another about will.\" (p. 97) Nuclear deterrence became a conflict waged by appearances to produce intangible effects on leaderships and populations. People's war also came to be decided by intangible effects on hearts and minds of both sides. In both situations the capacity of violence for achieving political ends is thrown into doubt.\n\nA similar mindset of belief in violence pervaded western theories of revolution. Right, left and centre theorists and leaders agreed that that revolution had to be violent. Power was only understood as an effect of violent coercive rule. (except for a few voices, e.g., Tolstoy)\n\nTwo expressly political theorists thought consistently about nonviolence: Mahatma Gandhi and Hannah Arendt.\n\nMohandas K. Gandhi believed that courage was a more important attribute of those seeking liberation than a desire for nonviolence or Satyagraha. At one point he even acted as conscription agent for the British military in South Africa. (date?) Gandhi appealed to the 'spiritual' strength of Indian peoples to oppose the Western Imperial (war) system.\n\nThe assumption here is that tyrants and ruling classes alike only have the power that we invest in them. Give them nothing and they are naked and have no power. \"The central role of consent in all government meant that non-cooperation - the withdrawal of consent - was something more than a morally satisfying activity; it was a powerful weapon in the real world.\" (p. 129) \"Non-cooperation is not a passive state, it is an intensely active state - more active than physical resistance or violence.\"' (p. 130) Schell quoting from \"Gandhi's Essential Writings\" (p. 99)\n\nThe Gandhi programme of Satyagraha (\"the quiet and irresistible pursuit of truth\") was accompanied by 'the constructive programme'. This campaigned and organised to achieve concrete goals such as justice for workers, peace between factions, village hygiene and diet, the condition of women, etc. The idea is to do anything that obstructed the solidarity of the nation and that facilitates the production of a democratic political culture. \"Constructive effort is political power\" \"Gandhi's Essential Writings\" (p. 259)\n\nSchell looks for the nonviolent actions that are part of what are often represented as broadly violent revolutions. (p. 143) He defines violence: \"Violence is the method by which the ruthless few can subdue the passive many. Non-violence is a means by which the active many can overcome the ruthless few.\" (p. 144). He discusses The Glorious Revolution of 1689 in England and the American, French and Russian Revolutions. He makes the interesting observation that revolutions are typified as violent and the subsequent establishment of a new regime is assumed to be peaceful, whereas the reverse has \"more often been the case\". (p. 144) in the French revolution, the American, even the Russian...(p. 175) (p. 178). More people died making Potemkin the film than in the actual storming of the Winter Palace! The Russian Revolution was more of a victory of a 'mass minority' ... than a real people's revolution as happened in France or America (p. 183).\n\nThe English 'Glorious Revolution' of 1689 \"London was in fact the first of many modern capitals whose rebellious spirit was to infect and destroy the allegiance of an army of an ancien regime\". This was William of Orange versus King James, with defections at the non-battle at Salisbury.\n\nThere has been a near universal failure of theorists to predict the non-violent fall of powers. He quotes Thomas Paine: \"Tis not in numbers but in unity that our great strength lies\". In the American Revolution Committees of Correspondence were formed for \"mutually fostering and co-ordinating activity\". These were the basic political units.\n\nEdmund Burke realised that it is only by cultivating the love and admiration of the people that a ruler can raise taxes or an army or get voted in. This love \"infuses into (army and navy) that liberal obedience without which your army would be base rabble and you navy nothing but rotten timber\" (p. 159).\n\nSchell's sources here are Adam Michnik, Václav Havel and György Konrád as sources to explain the 'unsuspected' weakness of the Soviet empire. In their beginnings they \"did not aim at state power\" (p. 191) but aimed at \"achieving immediate changes in daily life\" within what was called 'civil society' a term that goes back to Paine. (p. 194)\n\nThe setting up of institutions independent from the state or the ruling classes... is the key activity in preparing for a peoples revolution. In Eastern Europe this took the form of civic and cultural activity (p. 195), e.g., Workers' Defence Committee provided concrete assistance to those in trouble with the authorities, and their families. Other terms for similar activity:\n\n\nVáclav Havel suggested there should be no discourse with the centre of power but that activists should \"fight only for those concrete causes, and fight for them unswervingly to the end\" (p. 196). Compare this with Gandhi's earlier call for courage . Chosen well these independent institutions will rattle the establishment. The idea of cultivating 'a predisposition to truth' (Havel/ Gandhi) is seen as key (p. 197). \n\nThe final collapse of the USSR is not like the rest of Eastern Europe as it was a mainly top down operation rather than one of peoples power. There was still a remarkable and unexpected lack of violence.\n\nThe main thesis is reiterated: \"The professionals of power, in or out of government, were consistently caught off-guard by the failures of superior force and the successes of nonviolence\" (p. 216). Contemporary political theory could 'neither foresee nor explain' the successes of non-violent people power.\n\nHannah Arendt's redefinition of the word 'power' has a strong echo from Paine. She says: \"Power corresponds to the human ability not just to act but to act in concert.\" (Schell p. 218). She goes so far as to deny ascription of 'power' to individual action.\n\nMax Weber is probably more realistic in asserting that power is the assertion of will in a social relationship. (p. 220) But this does mean that in limiting its meaning Hannah Arendt can discuss political power in more detail. The assertion of the will of the tyrant is ultimately an illusion, the tyrant is dependent on his supporters.\nViolence can never create real political power in Arendt's sense: \"To substitute violence for power can bring victory, but the price is very high; for it is not only paid by the vanquished, it is also paid by the victor in terms of his own power.\" (Schell p. 222). According to John Stuart Mill public opinion guides will and \"a great part of all power consists in... willing allegiance\" (Schell p. 229).\n\nSchell sees the 'taming of violence' being written into liberalisms 'genetic code'. His example is the Civil Rights Movement in the USA. Although he sees nonviolent action being only 'curative' or reforming of a liberal democratic system.\n\n"}
{"id": "24739467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24739467", "title": "Thomas Griffin (farmer)", "text": "Thomas Griffin (farmer)\n\nThomas Griffin (January 1, 1889 – September 29, 1915) and Meeks Griffin were brothers and prominent black farmers who lived in Chester County, South Carolina. They were executed via the electric chair in 1915 for the murder in 1913 of 75-year-old John Q. Lewis, a Confederate veteran of Blackstock.\n\nThe Griffin brothers were convicted based on the accusations of another black man, John \"Monk\" Stevenson, who was known to be a small-time thief. Stevenson who was found in possession of the victim's pistol, was sentenced to life in prison in exchange for testifying against the brothers.\n\nTwo other African Americans, Nelson Brice and John Crosby, were executed with the brothers for the same crime.\n\nHowever, some in the community believed that the murder might have been the result of Lewis's suspected sexual relationship with 22-year-old Anna Davis. Davis and her husband were never tried, possibly for fear of a miscegenation scandal.\n\nThe Griffin brothers, who were believed to be the wealthiest blacks in the area, sold their farm to pay for their defense against the accusations.\n\nOver 100 people petitioned Gov. Richard Manning to commute the brothers' sentence. The signatories included prominent people including Blackstock's mayor, a sheriff, two trial jurors and the grand jury foreman. Nevertheless, they were sent to the electric chair.\n\nThomas Griffin and Meeks Griffin were pardoned in October 2009 after Tom Joyner sought the pardons of his great-uncles from state appeals court in Columbia, South Carolina.\n\nJoyner learned about his relationship to the Griffins through a research conducted for the PBS documentary, African American Lives 2, by Harvard scholar Henry Louis Gates Jr., which also traced 11 other relatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "424506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424506", "title": "USS Grampus (SS-207)", "text": "USS Grampus (SS-207)\n\nUSS \"Grampus\" (SS-207), a \"Tambor\"-class submarine, was the sixth ship of the United States Navy to be named for a member of the dolphin family (Delphinidae): \"Grampus griseus\", also known as Risso's dolphin.\n\nHer keel was laid down by the Electric Boat Company of Groton, Connecticut. She was launched on 23 December 1940 (sponsored by Mrs. Clark H. Woodward) and commissioned on 23 May 1941 at New London, Connecticut, with Lieutenant Commander Edward S. Hutchinson in command. \n\"Grampus\" received three battle stars for World War II service. Her first, fourth, and fifth war patrols were designated successful.\n\nAfter shakedown in Long Island Sound, \"Grampus\" sailed to the Caribbean Sea with on 8 September to conduct a modified war patrol, returning to New London, Connecticut, on 28 September. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor found \"Grampus\" undergoing post-shakedown overhaul at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, but soon ready for war on 22 December, she sailed for the Pacific, reaching Pearl Harbor on 1 February 1942, via the Panama Canal and Mare Island.\n\nOn her first war patrol from 8 February to 4 April 1942, \"Grampus\" sank an 8636-ton tanker Kaijo Maru No.2 4 March 1942, the only kill of her short career, and reconnoitered Kwajalein and Wotje atolls, later the scene of bloody but successful landings. \"Grampus\"' second patrol en route to Fremantle, Australia, and her third patrol from that base were marred by a heavy number of antisubmarine patrol craft off Truk Lagoon and poor visibility as heavy rains haunted her path along the Luzon and Mindoro coasts.\n\nTaking aboard four coast watchers, \"Grampus\" sailed from Fremantle on 2 October 1942 for her fourth war patrol. Despite the presence of Japanese destroyers, she landed the coast watchers on Vella Lavella and Choiseul islands while conducting her patrol. This patrol, during the height of the Guadalcanal campaign, took \"Grampus\" into waters teeming with Japanese men-of-war. She sighted a total of four enemy cruisers and 79 destroyers in five different convoys. Although she conducted a series of aggressive attacks on the Japanese ships, receiving 104 depth charges for her work, \"Grampus\" was not credited with sinking any ships. On 18 October 1942 \"Grampus\" even scored a direct hit on the \"Yura\", but the torpedo failed to explode. She returned to Australia on 23 November.\n\n\"Grampus\"' fifth war patrol, from 14 December 1942 to 19 January 1943, took her across access lanes frequented by Japanese submarines and other ships. Air and water patrol in this area was extremely heavy and although she conducted several daring attacks on the 41 contacts she sighted, \"Grampus\" again was denied a kill.\n\nIn company with \"Grayback\", \"Grampus\" departed Brisbane on 11 February 1943 for her sixth war patrol, from which she failed to return; the manner of her loss still remains a mystery. Japanese seaplanes reported sinking a submarine on 18 February in \"Grampus\"' patrol area, but \"Grayback\" reported seeing \"Grampus\" in that same area 4 March. On 19th February the \"Granpus\" is believed to have damaged the \"Keiyo Maru\" [6442 GRT] and 27 February 1943 also damaged the IJN Minesweeper W.22. On 5 March 1943, the Japanese destroyers and \"Murasame\" conducted an attack preceding the Battle of Blackett Strait, near Kolombangara island. A heavy oil slick was sighted there the following day, indicating that \"Grampus\" may have been lost there in a night attack or gun battle against the destroyers. The Japanese destroyers had by then already been sunk in a night action with U.S. cruisers and destroyers.\n\nWhen repeated attempts failed to contact \"Grampus\", the submarine was declared missing and presumed lost with all hands. Her name was struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 21 June 1943.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "262823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262823", "title": "Umberto Boccioni", "text": "Umberto Boccioni\n\nUmberto Boccioni (; 19 October 1882 – 17 August 1916) was an influential Italian painter and sculptor. He helped shape the revolutionary aesthetic of the Futurism movement as one of its principal figures. Despite his short life, his approach to the dynamism of form and the deconstruction of solid mass guided artists long after his death. His works are held by many public art museums, and in 1988 the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City organized a major retrospective of 100 pieces.\n\nUmberto Boccioni was born on 19 October 1882 in Reggio Calabria. His father was a minor government employee, originally from the Romagna region in the north, and his job included frequent reassignments throughout Italy. The family soon relocated further north, and Umberto and his older sister Amelia grew up in Forlì (Emilia-Romagna), Genoa and finally Padua. At the age of 15, in 1897, Umberto and his father moved to Catania, Sicily, where he would finish school. Some time after 1898, he moved to Rome and studied art at the Scuola Libera del Nudo of the Accademia di Belle Arti di Roma.\n\nThe little known about his years in Rome is found in the autobiography of his friend Gino Severini (1883–1966), who recalled their meeting in 1901 and mutual interest in Nietzsche, rebellion, life experiences and socialism. Boccioni's writings at this time already express the combination of outrage and irony that would become a lifelong characteristic. His critical and rebellious nature, and overall intellectual ability, would contribute substantially to the development of the Futurism movement. After building a foundation of skills, having studied the classics through Impressionism, both he and Severini became students of Giacomo Balla (1871–1958), a painter focusing on the modern Divisionist technique, painting with divided rather than mixed color and breaking the painted surface into a field of stippled dots and stripes. Severini wrote \"It was a great stroke of luck for us to meet such a man, whose direction was decisive of all our careers.\"\n\nIn 1906, he briefly moved to Paris, where he studied Impressionist and Post-Impressionist styles, before visiting Russia for three months, getting a first-hand view of the civil unrest and governmental crackdowns. Returning to Italy in 1907, he briefly took drawing classes at the Accademia di Belle Arti of Venice. He had first visited the Famiglia Artistica, a society for artists in Milan, in 1901.\n\nBoccioni moved to Milan in 1907. There, early in 1908, he met the Divisionist painter Gaetano Previati. In early 1910 he met Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, who had already published his \"Manifesto del Futurismo\" (\"Manifesto of Futurism\") in the previous year. On 11 February 1910 Boccioni, with Balla, Carlo Carrà, Luigi Russolo and Severini, signed the \"Manifesto dei pittori futuristi\" (\"Manifesto of Futurist painters\"), and on 8 March he read the manifesto at the Politeama Chiarella theatre in Turin.\n\nBoccioni became the main theorist of the artistic movement. \"Only when Boccioni, Severini and a few other Futurists traveled to Paris and saw what Braque and Picasso had been doing did the movement begin to take real shape.\" He also decided to be a sculptor after he visited various studios in Paris, in 1912, including those of Georges Braque, Alexander Archipenko, Constantin Brâncuși, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, August Agero and, probably, Medardo Rosso. In 1912 he exhibited some paintings together with other Italian futurists at the Galerie Bernheim-Jeune, and the following year returned to show his sculptures at the Galerie La Boétie: all related to the elaboration of what Boccioni had seen in Paris, they in their turn probably influenced the Cubist sculptors, especially Duchamp-Villon.\n\n\"In the brief life span of the Italian Futurist movement, the short-lived Umberto Boccioni was a blazing comet. ... Boccioni was a fiery theoretician of the movement, drafting two Futurist manifestoes in 1910 and 1912 that exalted the force and energy of contemporary life. They called for an art that glorified speed, violence and the machine age, one that above all reflected the dynamism of an engine-driven civilization.\" --Grace Glueck, New York Times Art Critic\nIn 1914 he published \"Pittura e scultura futuriste (dinamismo plastico)\" explaining the aesthetics of the group:\n\n\"While the impressionists paint a picture to give one particular moment and subordinate the life of the picture to its resemblance to this moment, we synthesize every moment (time, place, form, color-tone) and thus paint the picture.\"\nHe exhibited in London, together with the group, in 1912 (Sackville Gallery) and 1914 (Doré Gallery): the two exhibitions made a deep impression on a number of young English artists, in particular C.R.W. Nevinson, who joined the movement. Others aligned themselves instead to its British equivalent, Vorticism, led by Wyndham Lewis.\n\n\"Boccioni's gift was to bring a fresh eye to reality in ways that, we now recognise, defined the nature of the modern movement in the visual arts and literature, too.\" --Michael Glover (art critic, The Independent)\nItalian involvement in the First World War began late in May 1915 with Italy's declaration of war on Austro-Hungary. The \"Lombard Battalion Volunteers Cyclists and Motorists\", which Boccioni was part of, set off in early June from Milan to Gallarate, then on to Peschiera del Garda, in the rear of the Trentino front. In July 1915, the volunteers were intended for a sector of the front around Ala and the Gardesana. On 24 October 1915, Boccioni participated in the battle of Dosso Casina. On 1 December 1915 the battalion was dissolved as part of a general reorganization; the volunteers were laid off temporarily, then each was called up along with the class. In May 1916 Boccioni was drafted into the Italian Army, and was assigned to an artillery regiment at Sorte of Chievo, near Verona. On 16 August 1916, he was thrown from his horse during a cavalry training exercise and was trampled. He died the following day, age thirty-three.\n\nEarly portraits and landscapes\nFrom 1902 to 1910, Boccioni focused initially on drawings, then sketched and painted portraits – with his mother as a frequent model. He also painted landscapes – often including the arrival of industrialization, trains and factories for example. During this period, he weaves between Pointillism and Impressionism, and the influence of Giacomo Balla, and Divisionism techniques are evident in early paintings (although later largely abandoned). \"The Morning\" (1909) was noted for \"the bold and youthful violence of hues\" and as \"a daring exercise in luminosity.\" His 1909–10 \"Three Women\", which portrays his mother and sister, and longtime lover Ines at center, was cited as expressing great emotion – strength, melancholy and love.\n\nInitially titled \"Il lavoro\" (Labor), Boccioni worked for nearly a year on \"La città sale\" or \"The City Rises\", 1910, a huge (2m by 3m) painting, which is considered his turning point into Futurism. \"I attempted a great synthesis of labor, light and movement\" he wrote to a friend. Upon its exhibition in Milan in May 1911, the painting attracted numerous reviews, mostly admiring. By 1912 it had become a headline painting for the exhibition traveling Europe, the introduction to Futurism. It was sold to the great pianist, Ferruccio Busoni for 4,000 lire that year, and today is frequently on prominent display at the Museum of Modern art in New York, at the entrance to the paintings department.\n\"La risata\" (1911, \"The Laugh\") is considered his first truly Futurist work. He had fully parted with Divisionism, and now focused on the sensations derived from his observation of modern life. Its public reception was quite negative, compared unfavorably with \"Three Women\", and it was defaced by a visitor, running his fingers through the still fresh paint. Subsequent criticism became more positive, with some considering the painting a response to Cubism. It was purchased by Albert Borchardt, a German collector who acquired 20 Futurist works exhibited in Berlin, including \"The Street Enters the House\" (1911) which depicts a woman on a balcony overlooking a busy street. Today the former also is owned by the Museum of Modern Art, and the latter by the Sprengel Museum in Hanover.\nUmberto Boccioni spent much of 1911 working on a trilogy of paintings titled \"\"Stati d'animo\" (\"States of Mind\"\"), which he said expressed departure and arrival at a railroad station – \"The Farewells\", \"Those Who Go\", and \"Those Who Stay\". All three paintings were originally purchased by Marinetti, until Nelson Rockefeller acquired them from his widow and later donated them to the Museum of Modern Art in New York.\n\nBeginning in 1912, with \"Elasticità\" or \"Elasticity\", depicting the pure energy of a horse, captured with intense chromaticism, he completed a series of Dynamist paintings: \"Dinamismo di un corpo umano\" (\"Human Body\"), \"ciclista\" (\"Cyclist\"), \"Foot-baller\", and by 1914 \"Dinamismo plastico: cavallo + caseggiato\" (\"Plastic Dynamism: Horse + Houses\").\n\nWhile continuing this focus, he revived his previous interest in portraiture. Beginning with \"L'antigrazioso\" (\"The antigraceful\") in 1912 and continuing with \"I selciatori\" (\"The Street Pavers\") and \"Il bevitore\" (\"The Drinker\") both in 1914.\n\nIn 1914 Boccioni published his book, \"Pittura, scultura futuriste\" (\"Futurist Painting and Sculpture\"), which caused a rift between himself and some of his Futurist comrades. As a result, perhaps, he abandoned his exploration of Dynamism, and instead sought further decomposition of a subject by means of colour. With \"Horizontal Volumes\" in 1915 and the \"Portrait of Ferruccio Busoni\" in 1916, he completed a full return to figurative painting. Perhaps fittingly, this last painting was a portrait of the maestro who purchased his first Futurist work, \"The City Rises\".\n\nThe writing of his (\"Technical manifesto of Futurist sculpture\"), published on 11 April 1912, was Boccioni's intellectual and physical launch into sculpture; he had begun working in sculpture in the previous year. Much of his experimental work from late 1912 to 1913 was destroyed, including pieces relating to contemporaneous paintings, which are known only through photographs. One of the few surviving pieces is the \"Antigrazioso\" also called \"The Mother\".\n\nYet by the end of 1913 he had completed what is considered his masterpiece, \"Forme uniche della continuità nello spazio\" (\"Unique Forms of Continuity in Space\"), in wax. His goal for the work was to depict a \"synthetic continuity\" of motion, instead of an \"analytical discontinuity\" that he saw in such artists as František Kupka and Marcel Duchamp. During his life, the work only existed as a plaster cast. It was first cast in bronze in 1931. This sculpture has been the subject of extensive commentary, and in 1998 it was selected as the image to be engraved on the back of the Italian 20-cent euro coin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37872450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37872450", "title": "W. Brady", "text": "W. Brady\n\nW. Brady was a Scottish footballer who played in the Football League for Burnley.\n\nW Brady was signed by Burnley in December 1888 and made his debut at Turf Moor, Burnley, on 08-Dec-1888 against Stoke. He was selected to play inside-right in place of Willie McKay who moved to inside-left. He made an immediate impact. In a \"strong fought physical encounter\" play often stopped for injury. After one such break W Brady got the ball and put Burnley ahead and it remained 1-0 at half-time. The second half was more even but Burnley managed to go 2-0 up on the hour. Both sides pressed but defences held until Stoke guaranteed an exciting finish by making 2-1 with ten minutes left. The Burnley defence held on and got an important win. \n\nBrady was ever-present from the Stoke game and played 9 times and scored 2 goals. He played 7 times at inside-right and twice at outside-right. Brady also played in both FA Cup ties played by Burnley in 1889 and he scored in the First Round tie against Old Westminsters which Burnley won 4-3. Burnley finished 9th in the League and scored 42 goals in 22 games. Burnley were knocked out of the FA Cup in the Second Round by West Bromwich Albion.\n"}
{"id": "8859888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8859888", "title": "William VI, Marquess of Montferrat", "text": "William VI, Marquess of Montferrat\n\nWilliam VI (c. 1173 – 17 September 1226) was the tenth Marquess of Montferrat from 1203 and titular King of Thessalonica from 1207.\n\nBoniface I's eldest son, and his only son by his first wife, Helena del Bosco, William stood originally to inherit all his father's possessions. He participated in diverse campaigns with his father, including the Battle of Montiglio, in which the men of Asti were defeated in 1191. Between 1193 and 1199, he appeared in many of his father's public acts. On 12 June 1199, he was put in charge of Acqui Terme with twenty knights to combat the Alessandrini, and, on 27 October, he was present near Saluggia for the signing of a pact with the commune of Vercelli.\n\nBoniface I joined the Fourth Crusade as a Christian leader in 1203. In accordance with promises made to Asti and Alessandria, he officially abdicated the marquisate to William before he left. Immediately, William turned towards Asti, then protected by Milan. The Astigiani had a history of rebellion and were growing in power. In August, with his father beside him, he formed an alliance with Alba and Alessandria, another rebellious commune, against Asti. His allies proved of little worth as he had to make many concessions to them and was still defeated in the field. In April 1206, he opened negotiations with Asti. The peace treaty was embarrassing for Montferrat, but it was accepted by all three allies. William promised to get his father's ratification, but his father was killed fighting against the Bulgarians unaware of any peace back home.\n\nTraditionally, the Aleramici adhered to the Ghibelline faction, which supported the Hohenstaufen and their Italian schemes. William, however, lent his support to Otto of Brunswick, the Guelph claimant to the imperial title. Though William expected to see the power of an emperor levelled against his foes, the only aid he received from Otto was directed against small local potentates which posed little real threat. The only great success of the alliance was the sack of Cuneo.\n\nAt the Diet of Lodi, William abandoned Otto finally in favour of Frederick II, the Hohenstaufen claimant. On 15 July 1212, he was in Genoa with the other Ghibelline lords to receive Frederick. William led the young emperor from the city to the road which led to Germany. In 1215, William participated in the Second Lateran Council, there arguing the cause of Frederick against Otto. He travelled many subsequent times into Germany to speak to Frederick and during these absences, his enemies plotted against him. In their attempts to seize his lands, however, they were largely unsuccessful.\n\nDuring his times in Italy, William remained at war with Asti and Alessandria, but without result.\n\nFollowing his father's death in 1207, his conquests in Greece, formed into the Kingdom of Thessalonica, passed into the hands of William's half-brother Demetrius. The succession was opposed by the Lombard nobles of the kingdom, led by the regent Oberto II of Biandrate, who preferred the crown to pass to William. William himself was reluctant to claim the throne, and with the support of Latin Emperor Henry of Flanders, the rebellion of the Lombard barons was overcome, and Demetrius was crowned king.\n\nDuring the exhausting years battling rebels and Guelphs, William at last resolved to travel to Greece to defend the conquests of his father. To this end he was urged by the churchmen of his realm and also by the troubadour Elias Cairel. When he finally decided to take the cross, aware of the insignificance of his contribution to the total effort, he decided to head by way of Egypt, at the suggestion of Pope Honorius III. But the arrival of Demetrius, fleeing the onslaught of the Greeks under Theodore Komnenos Doukas and the hostility of the Lombard barons, led by Biandrate, convinced him to go to Greece.\n\nSeveral times he prepared to head out, but each time was detained by the threats of his enemies in Piedmont or by economic restraints which compelled him to mortgage his marquisate to Frederick II. Finally, he cowed some cities into giving him aid in men. Nevertheless, he was present at Capua, Ferentino, and Sora with Frederick II in February 1223. Delayed again and again, he drank a toast at Brindisi to his setting off in 1225, but he fell ill at the last minute. His fleet remained in port until Spring 1226, when, under urging from Honorius, it finally cast off. The delays had been fatal and William himself died at Almyros on 17 September. The rest of his army was hit by a dysentery epidemic and melted away.\n\nOn 9 August 1202 William married Berta (1182–1224), daughter of the Marquess Bonifacio di Clavesana, Count of Cortemiglia. They had at least three children: \n\n"}
{"id": "58909493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58909493", "title": "Élisa Beetz-Charpentier", "text": "Élisa Beetz-Charpentier\n\nÉlisa Beetz-Charpentier (born Jeanne Élisa Henriette Beetz; 1859 in Schaerbeek, Belgium – 1949 in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France) was a French sculptor, medallist and painter.\n\nHer second husband was Alexandre Charpentier and the witnesses at their wedding in 1908 were Claude Debussy and Auguste Rodin.\n\nAccording to the research of Polish heraldist Jerzy Michta published in 2017, the version of the coat of arms of Poland used since 1927, designed by artist Zygmunt Kamiński, was actually plagiarized from a 1924 plaque by Elisa Beetz-Charpentier made in honor of Ignacy Paderewski. \n"}
