{"id": "1020090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1020090", "title": "1965 in radio", "text": "1965 in radio\n\nThe year 1965 saw a number of significant events in radio broadcasting.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "459352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459352", "title": "Abatement (heraldry)", "text": "Abatement (heraldry)\n\nAn abatement (or rebatement) is a modification of a coat of arms, representing a less-than honorable augmentation, imposed by an heraldic authority (such as the Court of Chivalry in England) or by royal decree for misconduct. The practice of inverting the entire escutcheon of an armiger found guilty of high treason has been attested since the Middle Ages and is generally accepted as reliable, and medieval heraldic sources cite at least one instance of removing an honourable charge from a coat of arms by royal decree as an abatement of honour. Other abatements of honour implied by the addition of dishonourable stains and charges, appearing in late 16th-century texts, have never been reliably attested in actual practice. Additionally, as many heraldic writers note, the use of arms is not compulsory, so armigers are more likely to relinquish a dishonored coat of arms than to advertise their dishonor.\n\nThe earliest mention in heraldic writing of a dishonorable display of arms (and, according to Fox-Davies, the only one reliably attested in actual use; see historical examples below) was inverting the entire shield, first documented by Johannes de Bado Aureo in his heraldic treatise \"Tractatus de armis\" (c. 1394). Contemporary accounts of executions for treason describe the traitor being marched to his execution in a paper tabard displaying his inverted arms, and other accounts tell of displaying the inverted arms of prisoners, released on parole, who refuse to pay their ransom.\n\nEight other abatements were introduced in the late 16th century, each prescribing a specific charge in a specific stain for a specific offense; though the charges themselves were uncommon but no less honourable than any other charge (if colored in any standard tincture or fur), it was only when displayed in the prescribed position and stain that these charges were supposed to be considered dishonourable.\n\nLeigh (1562) enumerated the nine abatements thus:\n\n\nScottish herald Thomas Innes of Learney mentioned abatements in marital situations: \"The law of arms provides for abating the arms of an adulterer by two gussets sanguine, and where the bearing of arms is necessary this, and one gusset (they will be close-gussets) for non-adulterous divorcees, are, at least in Patents, applied in the case of divorcees.\"\n\nSeveral notable modern heraldists have asserted that the execution of this system of abatements has never been attested in fact, and that the whole system was in all likelihood a theoretical exercise created by heralds for the purpose of discouraging armigers from committing dishonourable acts.\n\nAs another form of abatement, some coats of arms were reportedly modified through breaking or cutting, reversing, or altogether erasing some existing charges, at least as they occur in patents, though the armiger's actual display of these defaced arms has not been documented and is unlikely.\n\nIn French heraldry the term \"diffamé\" is used to denote a lion or other animal whose tail is cut off, or may refer more broadly to arms which have been altered to signify loss of honor. A lion with its tail between its hind legs is termed \"couard\" (coward), and has also been cited as a mark of infamy.\n\nThough lions are traditionally depicted with male genitals, a recent trend toward omitting the genitals has been controversial, prodding claims that emasculated lions have also been an historical form of abatement. Commenting on the newly castrated lion in the arms of the Nordic Battle Group in 2007, Vladimir Sagerlund, heraldic artist at the Swedish National Archives since 1994, was critical of the politically motivated decision, stating, \"once upon a time coats of arms containing lions without genitalia were given to those who betrayed the Crown.\" \"The Times\" in London, however, noted a growing recent trend toward heraldic \"castration\", pointing to the lions passant on the royal coat of arms of England, as well as the lions rampant on those of Norway, Finland, Belgium, Luxembourg and Scotland, all of which have recently been depicted without genitals; in conclusion, \"The Times\" wrote, \"some crests are ambiguous, but the message remains clear: the lions are supposed to display courage and nothing else.\" While such arms are clearly not intended as an abatement in modern times, no known examples of castrated lions have been found in medieval heraldry.\n\nA few examples of historical abatements of arms have been recorded, though none of these reflect the addition of stained ordinaries as detailed above. Rather, these include broken chevrons, disarmed lions, and reversed or erased charges.\n\nOne of these rare historical examples was Amery of Pavy, who was appointed governor of Calais by King Edward III of England in 1347, and whose arms were abated by royal decree in 1349 after the failed French siege of Calais on the last day of December 1348, which resulted from Sir Amery's attempt to sell Calais to Sir Geffrey Charney, the French governor of nearby Saint-Omer, for 20,000 crowns. As stated by Sir George Mackenzie: \"And Edward the Third of England ordained two of six stars which a gentleman had in his arms to be effaced, because he had sold a seaport of which he was made governor.\" Pursuivant of arms John Guillim, writing circa 1610, gave the story in considerable detail, adding that Sir Amery's arms were also inverted for his treachery. Guillim further explained that this humiliation is not inherited by the traitor's heirs, up to and including capital crimes, except in cases of high treason.\n\nAn example of a lion \"diffamée\" is that of Jean d'Avesnes who insulted his mother, Margaret II, Countess of Flanders, in the presence of King Louis IX. He is supposed to have seen the lion in his arms \"diffamée\" (i.e. the tail removed) and \"morné\" (i.e. the teeth and claws removed).\n\n"}
{"id": "8864451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8864451", "title": "Archibald Cary Coolidge", "text": "Archibald Cary Coolidge\n\nArchibald Cary Coolidge (March 6, 1866 – January 14, 1928) was an American educator and diplomat. He was a Professor of History at Harvard College from 1908 and the first Director of the Harvard University Library from 1910 until his death. Coolidge was also a scholar in international affairs, a planner of the Widener Library, a member of the United States Foreign Service, and editor-in-chief of the policy journal \"Foreign Affairs\".\n\nArchibald Coolidge was born in Boston, Massachusetts as the third of five boys. His parents were Harvard University Law School graduate Joseph Randolph Coolidge and Julia (née Gardner) Coolidge, both from prominent and wealthy Boston Brahmin families. His siblings included U.S. Minister to Nicaragua John Gardner Coolidge, noted lawyer Harold Jefferson Coolidge Sr. (the father of zoologist Harold Jefferson Coolidge Jr.), and mathematician and fellow Harvard professor Julian Lowell Coolidge.\n\nHis paternal uncle was Thomas Jefferson Coolidge, the Boston businessman and U.S. Minister to France. His father, Joseph Randolph Coolidge, was a great-grandson of the 3rd United States President Thomas Jefferson, through his maternal grandparents, Thomas Mann Randolph Jr. and Martha Jefferson Randolph. Archibald's great-uncles were Thomas Jefferson Randolph, George Wythe Randolph, Andrew Jackson Donelson, and his grandfather, Joseph Coolidge, was a distant relative of President Calvin Coolidge.\n\nThrough his mother, Archibald was the nephew of John Lowell Gardner II. His mother and uncle John were the grandchildren of merchant Joseph Peabody, one of the wealthiest men in the United States at the time of his death in 1844.\n\nCoolidge attended seven different elementary and preparatory schools, the Adams Academy in Quincy, and Harvard College, from which he emerged \"summa cum laude\" in history in 1887. He also attended the University of Berlin and the École des Sciences Politiques in Paris. He earned a Ph.D. from the University of Freiburg in Germany 1892.\n\nFrom 1893 on, he taught various history courses at Harvard, first as an instructor, from 1899 on as Assistant Professor, and in 1908, he was made a full Professor of History. \n\nCoolidge today is recognized as having turned the Harvard College Library into a major research institution. In 1908, he was appointed to the Harvard Library Council and was chairman of this council in 1909. In 1910, he became the first Director of the Harvard University Library. Coolidge's tenure saw the building of the Widener Library.\n\nBetween college terms and parallel to his post at Harvard, Coolidge also pursued a career in diplomacy, which fit his travel interests and his desire and aptitude for learning languages well. He held posts as secretary to the American legation in Saint Petersburg, Russia (1890–1891), as private secretary to the American minister in France (1892), and as secretary to the American legation in Vienna (1893).\n\nAt the end of World War I, more important assignments followed. Coolidge joined the Inquiry study group established by Woodrow Wilson. The U.S. State Department sent him in 1918 to Russia to report on the situation there. In 1919, he was made the head of the so-called Coolidge Mission, which was \"appointed by the American Delegation on 27 December and set up headquarters in Vienna.\". Secretary of State Robert Lansing informed Coolidge in a telegram dated December 26, 1918, that \"You are hereby assigned to the American Commission to observe political conditions in Austria-Hungary and neighboring countries.\". Coolidge and his group in Vienna analyzed the state of affairs on Central Europe and the Balkans and made recommendations for the benefit of the U.S. participants at the Paris Peace Conference, 1919. \n\nIn 1921, Coolidge worked as a negotiator for the American Relief Administration and helped organize the humanitarian aid to Russia after the famine of 1921. Coolidge also was one of the founders of the Council on Foreign Relations, which grew out of the Inquiry study group, and served as the first editor of its publication \"Foreign Affairs\" from 1922 until his death in 1928.\n\nCoolidge was also a member of the Monticello Association, which was created in 1913 to care for and preserve President Jefferson's home, Monticello, serving as its president from 1919 to 1925.\n\nCoolidge died at his home in Boston, Massachusetts on January 14, 1928.\n\n"}
{"id": "199742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199742", "title": "Bakumatsu", "text": "Bakumatsu\n\nAlthough these two groups were the most visible powers, many other factions attempted to use the chaos of Bakumatsu to seize personal power. Furthermore, there were two other main driving forces for dissent: first, growing resentment on the part of the \"tozama daimyō\" (or outside lords), and second, growing anti-Western sentiment following the arrival of Matthew C. Perry. The first related to those lords whose predecessors had fought against Tokugawa forces at the Battle of Sekigahara in 1600 and had, from that point on, been excluded permanently from all powerful positions within the shogunate. The second was to be expressed in the phrase \"sonnō jōi\", or \"revere the Emperor, expel the barbarians\". The turning point of the Bakumatsu was during the Boshin War and the Battle of Toba–Fushimi when pro-shogunate forces were defeated.\n\nFrictions with foreign shipping led Japan to take defensive actions from the beginning of the 19th century. Western ships were increasing their presence around Japan due to whaling activities and the China trade. They were hoping for Japan to become a base for supply or at least a place where shipwrecks could receive assistance. The violent demands made by the British frigate \"Phaeton\" in 1808 shocked many in Japan. In 1825, the was issued by the shogunate, prohibiting any contacts with foreigners; it remained in place until 1842.\n\nMeanwhile, Japan endeavoured to learn about foreign sciences through rangaku (\"Western studies\"). To reinforce Japan's capability to carry on the orders to repel Westerners, some such as the Nagasaki-based Takashima Shūhan managed to obtain weapons through the Dutch at Dejima, such as field guns, mortars and firearms. Domains sent students to learn from Takashima in Nagasaki, from Satsuma Domain after the intrusion of an American warship in 1837 in Kagoshima Bay, and from Saga Domain and Chōshū Domain, all southern domains mostly exposed to Western intrusions. These domains also studied the manufacture of Western weapons. By 1852 Satsuma and Saga had reverberatory furnaces to produce the iron necessary for firearms.\n\nFollowing the \"Morrison\" incident involving the \"Morrison\" under Charles W. King in 1837, Egawa Hidetatsu was put in charge of establishing the defense of Tokyo Bay against Western intrusions in 1839. After the victory of the British over the Chinese in the 1840 Opium War, many Japanese realized that traditional ways would not be sufficient to repel Western intrusions. To resist Western military forces, Western guns were studied and demonstrations made in 1841 by Takashima Shūhan to the Tokugawa shogunate.\n\nA national debate was already taking place about how to better avoid foreign domination. Some such as Egawa claimed that it was necessary to use the foreigners' techniques to repel them. Others, such as Torii Yōzō argued that only traditional Japanese methods should be employed and reinforced. Egawa argued that just as Confucianism and Buddhism had been introduced from abroad, it made sense to introduce useful Western techniques. A theoretical synthesis of \"Western knowledge\" and \"Eastern morality\" would later be accomplished by Sakuma Shōzan and Yokoi Shōnan, in view of \"controlling the barbarians with their own methods\".\n\nAfter 1839, however, traditionalists tended to prevail. Students of Western sciences were accused of treason (\"Bansha no goku\"), put under house arrest (Takashima Shūhan), forced to commit ritual suicide (Watanabe Kazan, Takano Chōei), or even assassinated as in the case of Sakuma Shōzan.\n\nWhen Commodore Matthew C. Perry's four-ship squadron appeared in Edo Bay (Tokyo Bay) in July 1853, the shogunate was thrown into turmoil. Commodore Perry was fully prepared for hostilities if his negotiations with the Japanese failed, and threatened to open fire if the Japanese refused to negotiate. He gave them two white flags, telling them to hoist the flags when they wished a bombardment from his fleet to cease and to surrender. To demonstrate his weapons, Perry ordered his ships to attack several buildings around the harbor. The ships of Perry were equipped with new Paixhans shell guns, capable of bringing destruction everywhere a shell landed.\n\nFortifications were established at Odaiba in Tokyo Bay in order to protect Edo from an American incursion. Industrial developments were also soon started in order to build modern cannons. A reverbatory furnace was established by Egawa Hidetatsu in Nirayama to cast cannons. Attempts were made at building Western-style warships such as the \"Shōhei Maru\" by using Dutch textbooks.\n\nThe American fleet returned in 1854. The chairman of the senior councillors, Abe Masahiro, was responsible for dealing with the Americans. Having no precedent to manage this threat to national security, Abe tried to balance the desires of the senior councillors to compromise with the foreigners, of the emperor who wanted to keep the foreigners out, and of the feudal \"daimyō\" rulers who wanted to go to war. Lacking consensus, Abe compromised by accepting Perry's demands for opening Japan to foreign trade while also making military preparations. In March 1854, the Treaty of Peace and Amity (or Treaty of Kanagawa) maintained the prohibition on trade but opened the ports of Shimoda and Hakodate to American whaling ships seeking provisions, guaranteed good treatment to shipwrecked American sailors, and allowed a United States consul to take up residence in Shimoda, a seaport on the Izu Peninsula, southwest of Edo. In February 1855, the Russians followed suit with the Treaty of Shimoda.\n\nThe resulting damage to the shogunate was significant. Debate over government policy was unusual and had engendered public criticism of the shogunate. In the hope of enlisting the support of new allies, Abe, to the consternation of the \"fudai daimyōs\", had consulted with the \"shinpan\" and \"tozama daimyōs\", further undermining the already weakened \"bakufu\".\n\nIn the Ansei Reform (1854–1856), Abe then tried to strengthen the regime by ordering Dutch warships and armaments from the Netherlands and building new port defenses. In 1855, with Dutch assistance, the shogunate acquired its first steam warship, \"Kankō Maru\", which was used for training, and opened the Nagasaki Naval Training Center with Dutch instructors, while a Western-style military school was established at Edo. In 1857, it acquired its first screw-driven steam warship, the \"Kanrin Maru\". Scientific knowledge was quickly expanded from the pre-existing foundation of Western knowledge (\"Rangaku\", \"Dutch learning\").\n\nOpposition to Abe increased within \"fudai\" circles, which opposed opening shogunate councils to \"tozama daimyōs\", and he was replaced in 1855 as chairman of the senior councilors by Hotta Masayoshi (1810–1864). At the head of the dissident faction was Tokugawa Nariaki, who had long embraced a militant loyalty to the emperor along with anti-foreign sentiments, and who had been put in charge of national defense in 1854. The Mito school—based on neo-Confucian and Shinto principles—had as its goal the restoration of the imperial institution, the turning back of the West.\n\nThe years 1854-1855 saw a dramatic series of earthquakes, known as the Ansei great earthquakes, with 120 major and minor temblors recorded over a less than two-year period including the 8.4 magnitude 1854 Tōkai earthquake on 23 December 1854, the 8.4 magnitude 1854 Nankai earthquake occurring the following day, and the 6.9 magnitude 1855 Edo earthquake, which struck what is today modern Tokyo, on 11 November 1855. An earthquake and tsunami struck Shimoda on the Izu Peninsula during the December 23 1854 Tōkai earthquake, and because the port had just been designated as the prospective location for a US consulate, some construed the natural disasters as demonstration of the displeasure of the gods. As the earthquakes were blamed by many Japanese on a giant catfish (\"Namazu\") thrashing about, Ukiyo-e prints depicting \"namazu\" became very popular during this time.\n\nFollowing the nomination of Townsend Harris as U.S. Consul in 1856 and two years of negotiation, the \"Treaty of Amity and Commerce\" was signed in 1858 and put into application from mid-1859. In a major diplomatic coup, Harris had abundantly pointed out the aggressive colonialism of France and Great Britain against China in the current Second Opium War (1856–1860), suggesting that these countries would not hesitate to go to war against Japan as well, and that the United States offered a peaceful alternative.\n\nThe most important points of the Treaty were:\n\n\nJapan was also forced to apply any further conditions granted to other foreign nations in the future to the United States, under the \"most favoured nation\" provision. Soon several foreign nations followed suit and obtained treaties with Japan (the Ansei Five-Power Treaties, with the United States (Harris Treaty) on July 29, 1858, Dutch (Treaty of Amity and Commerce between the Netherlands and Japan) on August 18, Russia (Treaty of Amity and Commerce between Russia and Japan) August 19, Great Britain (Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Amity and Commerce) on August 26, and France (Treaty of Amity and Commerce between France and Japan) on October 9).\n\nTrading houses were quickly set up in the open ports.\n\nHotta lost the support of key \"daimyōs\", and when Tokugawa Nariaki opposed the new treaty, Hotta sought imperial sanction. The court officials, perceiving the weakness of the \"bakufu\", rejected Hotta's request which resulted in the resignation of himself, and thus suddenly embroiled Kyoto and the emperor in Japan's internal politics for the first time in many centuries. When the \"shōgun\" died without an heir, Nariaki appealed to the court for support of his own son, Tokugawa Yoshinobu (or Keiki), for \"shōgun\", a reformist candidate favored by the \"shinpan\" and \"tozama daimyōs\". The \"fudai\" won the power struggle, however, installing the 12 year old Tokugawa Iemochi as \"shōgun\" whom it was perceived Tairō Ii Naosuke would have influence over, ultimately placing Nariaki and Yoshinobu under house arrest, and executing Yoshida Shōin (1830–1859, a leading \"sonnō-jōi\" intellectual who had opposed the American treaty and plotted a revolution against the bakufu) known as Ansei Purge.\n\nFrom 1859, the ports of Nagasaki, Hakodate and Yokohama became open to foreign traders as a consequence of the Treaties. Foreigners arrived in Yokohama and Kanagawa in great numbers, giving rise to trouble with the samurai. Violence increased against the foreigners and those who dealt with them. Murders of foreigners and collaborating Japanese soon followed. On 26 August 1859, a Russian sailor was cut to pieces in the streets of Yokohama. In early 1860, two Dutch captains were slaughtered, also in Yokohama. Chinese and native servants of foreigners were also killed.\n\nTairō Ii Naosuke, who had signed the Harris Treaty and tried to eliminate opposition to Westernization with the Ansei Purge, was himself murdered in March 1860 in the Sakuradamon incident. A servant of the French Minister was attacked at the end of 1860. On 14 January 1861, Henry Heusken, Secretary to the American mission, was attacked and murdered. On 5 July 1861, a group of samurai attacked the British Legation, resulting in two deaths. During this period, about one foreigner was killed every month. The Richardson Affair occurred in September 1862, forcing foreign nations to take decisive action in order to protect foreigners and guarantee the implementation of Treaty provisions. In May 1863, the US legation in Edo was torched.\n\nThe opening of Japan to uncontrolled foreign trade brought massive economic instability. While some entrepreneurs prospered, many others went bankrupt. Unemployment rose, as well as inflation. Coincidentally, major famines also increased the price of food drastically. Incidents occurred between brash foreigners, qualified as \"the scum of the earth\" by a contemporary diplomat, and the Japanese.\n\nJapan's monetary system, based on Tokugawa coinage, also broke down. Traditionally, Japan's exchange rate between gold and silver was 1:5, whereas international rates were of the order of 1:15. This led to massive purchases of gold by foreigners, and ultimately forced the Japanese authorities to devalue their currency. There was a massive outflow of gold from Japan, as foreigners rushed to exchange their silver for \"token\" silver Japanese coinage and again exchange these against gold, giving a 200% profit to the transaction. In 1860, about 4 million ryōs thus left Japan, that is about 70 tons of gold. This effectively destroyed Japan's gold standard system, and forced it to return to weight-based system with International rates. The Bakufu instead responded to the crises by debasing the gold content of its coins by two thirds, so as to match foreign gold-silver exchange ratios.\n\nForeigners also brought cholera to Japan, leading to hundreds of thousands of deaths.\n\nDuring the 1860s, peasant uprisings (hyakushō ikki) and urban disturbances (uchikowashi) multiplied. \"World renewal\" movement appeared (yonaoshi ikki), as well as feverish hysteric movements such as the Eejanaika (\"Why Not?\").\n\nSeveral missions were sent abroad by the Bakufu, in order to learn about Western civilization, revise unequal treaties, and delay the opening of cities and harbour to foreign trade. These efforts towards revision remained largely unsuccessful.\n\nA Japanese Embassy to the United States was sent in 1860, on board the \"Kanrin Maru\" and the USS \"Powhattan\". A First Japanese Embassy to Europe was sent in 1862.\n\nBelligerent opposition to Western influence further erupted into open conflict when the Emperor Kōmei, breaking with centuries of imperial tradition, began to take an active role in matters of state and issued, on March 11 and April 11, 1863, his .\n\nThe Mōri clan of Chōshū, under Lord Mōri Takachika, followed on the order, and began to take actions to expel all foreigners from the date fixed as a deadline (May 10, Lunar calendar). Openly defying the shogunate, Takachika ordered his forces to fire without warning on all foreign ships traversing Shimonoseki Strait.\n\nUnder pressure from the Emperor, the Shogun was also forced to issue a declaration promulgating the end of relations with foreigners. The order was forwarded to foreign legations by Ogasawara Zusho no Kami on June 24, 1863:\n\nLieutenant-Colonel Neale, head of the British legation, responded on very strong terms, equating the move with a declaration of war:\n\nA Second Japanese Embassy to Europe would be sent in December 1863, with the mission to obtain European support to reinstate Japan's former closure to foreign trade, and especially stop foreign access to the harbor of Yokohama. The Embassy ended in total failure as European powers did not see any advantages in yielding to its demands.\n\nAmerican influence, so important in the beginning, waned after 1861 due to the advent of the American Civil War (1861–1865) that monopolized all available U.S. resources. This influence would be replaced by that of the British, the Dutch and the French.\n\nThe two ringleaders of the opposition to the Bakufu were from the provinces Satsuma (present day Kagoshima prefecture) and Chōshū (present-day Yamaguchi prefecture), two of the strongest tozama anti-shogunate domains in Edo period Japan. Satsuma military leaders Saigō Takamori and Okubo Toshimichi were brought together with Katsura Kogorō (Kido Takayoshi) of Chōshū. As they happened to be directly involved in the murder of Richardson for the former, and the attacks on foreign shipping in Shimonoseki for the latter, and as the Bakufu declared itself unable to placate them, Allied forces decided to mount direct military expeditions.\n\nIn the morning of July 16, 1863, under sanction by Minister Pruyn, in an apparent swift response to the attack on the \"Pembroke\", the U.S. frigate USS \"Wyoming\" under Captain McDougal himself sailed into the strait and single-handedly engaged the U.S.-built but poorly manned rebel fleet. For almost two hours before withdrawing, McDougal sank one enemy vessel and severely damaged the other two, along with some forty Japanese casualties, while the \"Wyoming\" suffered extensive damage with fourteen crew dead or wounded.\n\nOn the heels of McDougal's engagement, two weeks later a French landing force of two warships, the \"Tancrède\" and the \"Dupleix\", and 250 men under Captain Benjamin Jaurès swept into Shimonoseki and destroyed a small town, together with at least one artillery emplacement.\n\nIn August 1863, the Bombardment of Kagoshima took place, in retaliation for the Namamugi incident and the murder of the English trader Richardson. The British Royal Navy bombarded the town of Kagoshima and destroyed several ships. Satsuma however later negotiated and paid 25,000 pounds, but did not remit Richardson's killers, and in exchange obtained an agreement by Great Britain to supply steam warships to Satsuma. The conflict actually became the starting point of a close relationship between Satsuma and Great Britain, which became major allies in the ensuing Boshin War. From the start, the Satsuma Province had generally been in favour of the opening and modernization of Japan. Although the Namamugi Incident was unfortunate, it was not characteristic of Satsuma's policy, and was rather abusively branded as an example of anti-foreign sonnō jōi sentiment, as a justification to a strong Western show of force.\n\nOn 2 May 1864, another rebellion erupted against the power of the shogunate, the Mito rebellion. This rebellion also was in the name of the \"sonnō jōi\", the expulsion of the Western \"barbarians\" and the return to Imperial rule. The shogunate managed to send an army to quell the revolt, which was ended in blood with the surrender of the rebels on 14 January 1865.\n\nIn the Kinmon Incident on 20 August 1864, troops from Chōshū Domain attempted to take control of Kyoto and the Imperial Palace in order to pursue the objective of \"Sonnō Jōi\". This also led to a punitive expedition by the Tokugawa government, the First Chōshū expedition (長州征討).\n\nWestern nations planned an armed retaliation against armed Japanese opposition with the Bombardment of Shimonoseki. The Allied intervention occurred in September 1864, combining the naval forces of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, France and the United States, against the powerful \"daimyō\" Mōri Takachika of the Chōshū Domain based in Shimonoseki, Japan. This conflict threatened to involve America, which in 1864, was already torn by its own civil war.\n\nFollowing these successes against the imperial movement in Japan, the shogunate was able to reassert a certain level of primacy at the end of 1864. The traditional policy of \"sankin-kōtai\" was reinstated, and remnants of the rebellions of 1863–64 as well as the \"Shishi\" movement were brutally suppressed throughout the land.\n\nThe military interventions by foreign powers also proved that Japan was no military match against the West, and that expelling foreigners was not a realistic policy. The \"sonnō jōi\" movement thus lost its initial impetus. The structural weaknesses of the Bakufu however remained an issue, and the focus of opposition would then shift to creating a strong government under a single authority.\n\nAs the Bakufu proved incapable to pay the $3,000,000 indemnity demanded by foreign nations for the intervention at Shimonoseki, foreign nations agreed to reduce the amount in exchange for a ratification of the Harris Treaty by the Emperor, a lowering of customs tariffs to a uniform 5%, and the opening of the harbours of Hyōgo (modern Kōbe) and Osaka to foreign trade. In order to press their demands more forcefully, a squadron of four British, one Dutch and three French warships were sent to the harbour of Hyōgo in November 1865. Various incursions were made by foreign forces, until the Emperor finally agreed to change his total opposition to the Treaties, by formally allowing the \"shōgun\" to handle negotiations with foreign powers.\n\nThese conflicts led to the realization that head-on conflict with Western nations was not a solution for Japan. As the Bakufu continued its modernization efforts, Western \"daimyōs\" (especially from Satsuma and Chōshū) also continued to modernize intensively in order to build a stronger Japan and to establish a more legitimate government under Imperial power.\n\nThe shogunate led a second punitive expedition against Chōshū from June 1866, but the shogunate was actually defeated by the more modern and better organized troops of Chōshū. The new \"shōgun\" Tokugawa Yoshinobu managed to negotiate a ceasefire due to the death of the previous \"shōgun\", but the prestige of the shogunate was nevertheless seriously affected.\n\nThis reversal encouraged the Bakufu to take drastic steps towards modernization.\n\nDuring the last years of the \"bakufu\", or \"bakumatsu\", the \"bakufu\" took strong measures to try to reassert its dominance, although its involvement with modernization and foreign powers was to make it a target of anti-Western sentiment throughout the country.\n\nNaval students were sent to study in Western naval schools for several years, starting a tradition of foreign-educated future leaders, such as Admiral Enomoto. The French naval engineer Léonce Verny was hired to build naval arsenals, such as Yokosuka and Nagasaki. By the end of the Tokugawa shogunate in 1868, the Japanese navy of the \"shōgun\" already possessed eight western-style steam warships around the flagship \"Kaiyō Maru\", which were used against pro-imperial forces during the Boshin War, under the command of Admiral Enomoto. A French Military Mission to Japan (1867) was established to help modernize the armies of the Bakufu. Japan sent a delegation to and participated in the 1867 World Fair in Paris.\n\nTokugawa Yoshinobu (informally known as Keiki) reluctantly became head of the Tokugawa house and \"shōgun\" following the unexpected death of Tokugawa Iemochi in mid-1866. In 1867, Emperor Kōmei died and was succeeded by his second son, Mutsuhito, as Emperor Meiji. Tokugawa Yoshinobu tried to reorganize the government under the Emperor while preserving the \"shōgun\"s leadership role, a system known as \"kōbu gattai\". Fearing the growing power of the Satsuma and Chōshū \"daimyōs\", other \"daimyōs\" called for returning the \"shōgun\"s political power to the emperor and a council of \"daimyōs\" chaired by the former Tokugawa \"shōgun\". With the threat of an imminent Satsuma-Chōshū led military action, Yoshinobu moved pre-emptively by surrendering some of his previous authority.\n\nAfter Keiki had temporarily avoided the growing conflict, anti-shogunal forces instigated widespread turmoil in the streets of Edo using groups of \"rōnin\". Satsuma and Chōshū forces then moved on Kyoto in force, pressuring the Imperial Court for a conclusive edict demolishing the shogunate. Following a conference of \"daimyōs\", the Imperial Court issued such an edict, removing the power of the shogunate in the dying days of 1867. The Satsuma, Chōshū, and other \"han\" leaders and radical courtiers, however, rebelled, seized the imperial palace, and announced their own restoration on January 3, 1868. Keiki nominally accepted the plan, retiring from the Imperial Court to Osaka at the same time as resigning as \"shōgun\". Fearing a feigned concession of the shogunal power to consolidate power, the dispute continued until culminating in a military confrontation between Tokugawa and allied domains with Satsuma, Tosa and Chōshū forces, in Fushimi and Toba. With the turning of the battle toward anti-shogunal forces, Keiki then quit Osaka for Edo, essentially ending both the power of the Tokugawa, and the shogunate that had ruled Japan for over 250 years.\n\nFollowing the Boshin War (1868–1869), the \"bakufu\" was abolished, and Keiki was reduced to the ranks of the common \"daimyōs\". Resistance continued in the North throughout 1868, and the \"bakufu\" naval forces under Admiral Enomoto Takeaki continued to hold out for another six months in Hokkaidō, where they founded the short-lived Republic of Ezo. This defiance ended in May 1869 at the Battle of Hakodate, after one month of fighting.\n\n\nLess known figures of the time:\n\nMatsudaira Yoshinaga, Date Munenari, Yamauchi Toyoshige and Shimazu Nariakira are collectively referred to as .\n\nForeign observers:\n\n\n \n \n\n"}
{"id": "210286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210286", "title": "Birth certificate", "text": "Birth certificate\n\nA birth certificate is a vital record that documents the birth of a child. The term \"birth certificate\" can refer to either the original document certifying the circumstances of the birth or to a certified copy of or representation of the ensuing registration of that birth. Depending on the jurisdiction, a record of birth might or might not contain verification of the event by such as a midwife or doctor.\n\nThe documentation of births is a practice widely held throughout human civilization, especially in China, Egypt, Greece, Rome, and Persia. The original purpose of vital statistics was for tax purposes and for the determination of available military manpower. In England, births were initially registered with churches, who maintained registers of births. This practice continued into the 19th century. The compulsory registration of births with the United Kingdom government is a practice that originated at least as far back as 1853. The entire United States did not get a standardized system until 1902.\n\nMost countries have statutes and laws that regulate the registration of births. In all countries, it is the responsibility of the mother's physician, midwife, hospital administrator, or the parent(s) of the child to see that the birth is properly registered with the appropriate government agency.\n\nThe actual record of birth is stored with a government agency. That agency will issue certified copies or representations of the original birth record upon request, which can be used to apply for government benefits, such as passports. The certification is signed and/or sealed by the registrar or other custodian of birth records, who is commissioned by the government.\n\nThe right of every child to a name and nationality, and the responsibility of national governments to achieve this are contained in Articles 7 and 8 in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child: \"The child shall be registered immediately after birth and shall have the right from birth to a name, the right to acquire a nationality...\" (CRC Article 7) and \"States Parties undertake to respect the right of the child to preserve his or her identity, including nationality, name and family relations...\" (CRC Article 8).\n\nDespite 191 countries ratifying the Convention, the births of millions of children worldwide go unregistered. By their very nature, data concerning unregistered children are approximate. About 29% of countries don't have available or sufficient data to assess global progress towards the SDG goal of universal coverage. However, from the data that is available, UNICEF estimates that more than a quarter of children under 5 worldwide are unregistered. The lowest levels of birth registration are found in sub-Saharan Africa (43 percent). This phenomenon disproportionately impacts poor households and indigenous populations. Even in many developed countries, it contributes to difficulties in fully accessing civic rights.\n\nBirth registration opens the door to rights to children and adults which many other human beings take for granted: to prove their age; to prove their nationality; to receive healthcare; to go to school; to take exams; to be adopted; to protection from under-age military service or conscription; to marry; to open a bank account; to hold a driving licence; to obtain a passport; to inherit money or property; and to vote or stand for elected office.\n\nThere are many reasons why births go unregistered, including social and cultural beliefs and attitudes; alternative documents and naming ceremonies; remote areas, poor infrastructure; economic barriers; lack of office staff, equipment and training; legal and political restrictions; fear of discrimination and persecution; war, conflict and unrest or simply the fact that there is no system in place.\n\nRetrospective registration may be necessary where there is a backlog of children whose births have gone unregistered. In Senegal, the government is facilitating retrospective registration through free local court hearings and the number of unregistered children has fallen considerably as a result.\nIn Sierra Leone, the government gave the National Office of Births and Deaths special permission to issue birth certificates to children over seven. In Bolivia, there was a successful three-year amnesty for the free registration of young people aged between 12 and 18.\n\nStatelessness, or the lack of effective nationality, impacts the daily lives of some 11-12 million people around the world. Perhaps those who suffer most are stateless infants, children, and youth. Although born and raised in their parents' country of habitual residence, they lack formal recognition of their existence.\n\nStates and territories of Australia are responsible for the issuance of birth certificates, through agencies generally titled \"Registry of Births Deaths and Marriages\" or similar.\n\nInitially registering a birth is done by a hospital through a \"Birth Registration Statement\" or similar, signed by appropriately licensed and authorized health professionals, and provided to the state or territory registry. Home births are permitted, but a statement is required from a registered midwife, doctor or 2 other witnesses other than the parent(s). Unplanned births require in some states that the baby be taken to a hospital within 24 hours. Once registered, a separate application (sometimes it can be done along with the Birth Registration Statement) can be made for a birth certificate, generally at a cost. The person(s) named or the parent(s) can apply for a certificate at any time. Generally, there is no restriction on re-applying for a certificate at a later date, so it could be possible to legally hold multiple original copies.\n\nThe Federal government requires that births be also registered through a \"Proof of Birth Declaration\" similarly signed as above by a doctor or midwife. This ensures the appropriate benefits can be paid, and the child is enrolled for Medicare.\n\nThe state or territory issued birth certificate is a secure A4 paper document, generally listing: Full name at birth, sex at birth, parent(s) and occupation(s), older sibling(s), address(es), date and place of birth, name of the registrar, date of registration, date of issue of certificate, a registration number, with the signature of the registrar and seal of the registry printed and or embossed. Most states allow for stillbirths to be issued a birth certificate. Some states issue early pregnancy loss certificates (without legal significance if before 20 weeks). Depending on the state or territory, amendment on the certificate are allowed to correct an entry, add ascendant, recognize same-sex relationship, changing the sex of the holder is also permitted in some state or territory.\n\nThe full birth certificate in Australia is an officially recognized identity document generally in the highest category. The birth certificate assists in establishing citizenship. Shorter and/or commemorative birth certificates are available; however, they are not generally acceptable for identification purposes.\n\nBirth certificates in Australia can be verified online by approved agencies through the Attorney-General's Department Document Verification Service and can be used to validate identity digitally, e.g. online.\n\nIn Canada, the issuance of birth certificates is a function of the provinces or territories.\n\nAgencies or various ministers are in charge of issuing birth certificates:\n\n\nThere are three forms of birth certificates issued:\n\n\nResidents of Quebec born elsewhere can have their non-Quebec birth record inserted into Quebec's birth register. Quebec birth certificates issued with regard to a birth, civil union, marriage or death that occurred outside of Quebec are referred to as \"semi-authentic\" under paragraph 137 of the Civil Code of Québec unless their validity is recognized by a Quebec court. Inserting one's birth record into the Quebec register is a prerequisite for anyone born outside of Quebec to apply for a legal name change in the province. Semi-authentic birth certificates are issued in the long-form only.\n\nDepending on the province, certificates are in English, French or both languages. Birth certificates from Canadian territories are in English and French, as well as Inuktitut in Nunavut (though individual data is in the Roman alphabet only, not in Inuktitut syllabics).\n\nThe People's Republic of China issued its first birth certificate on January 1, 1996. The birth certificate used currently is the fifth edition, which was adopted since January 1, 2014. Still, China, the world's most populous country, is among those with no globally comparable data, presenting challenges to researchers who wish to assess global and regional progress towards universal birth registration.\n\nIn England and Wales, the description \"birth certificate\" is used to describe a certified copy of an entry in the birth register.\n\nCivil registration of births, marriages and deaths in England and Wales started on 1 July 1837. Registration was not compulsory until 1875, following the Registration of Births and Deaths Act 1874, which made registration of a birth the responsibility of those present at the birth.\n\nWhen a birth is registered, the details are entered into the register book at the local register office for the district in which the birth took\nplace and is retained permanently in the local register office. A copy of each entry in the birth register is sent to the General Register Office (GRO).\n\nBefore the government's registration system was created, evidence of births and/or baptisms (and also marriages and death or burials) was dependent on the events being recorded in the records of the Church of England or in those of other various churches – not all of which maintained such records or all types of those records. Copies of such records are not issued by the General Register Office; but can be obtained from these churches, or from the local or national archive, which usually now keeps the records in original or copy form.\n\nThere are two types of birth certificates:\n\nA full certificate, titled 'CERTIFIED COPY OF AN ENTRY' is a copy of the original entry in the birth register, giving all the recorded details. Information includes; name, sex, date, and place of birth of the child, father's name, place of birth and occupation, mother's name, place of birth, maiden name, and occupation. Certificates for births before 1911 do not show the mother's maiden name, before 1969 do not show the detail(s) of the parent(s), place of birth and registration, and before 1984 do not show mother's occupation.\n\nThe short certificate, titled 'CERTIFICATE OF BIRTH', shows the child's full name, sex, date, and place of birth. It does not give any detail(s) of the parent(s); therefore it is not proof of parentage. A short birth certificate is issued, free of charge, at the time of registration.\n\nBoth versions of a certificate can be used in the verification of identity by acting as a support to other information or documentation\nprovided. Where proof of parentage is required only a full certificate will be accepted.\n\nThe original registrations are required by law to be issued in the form of certified copies to any person who identifies an index entry and pays the prescribed fee. They can be ordered by registered users from the General Register Office Certificate Ordering Service or by postal or telephone ordering from the General Register Office or by post or in person from local registrars. If the birth was registered within the past 50 years detailed information is required before a certificate will be issued.\n\nTraditionally births were poorly recorded in India.\n\nFor official purposes, other proofs are accepted in India in lieu of the birth certificate, such as matriculation certificates. Facilities are available to produce a birth certificate from a passport.\n\nBy law since 1969, registration of births is compulsory as per provisions of Registration of Births & Deaths Act. Birth certificates are issued by the Government of India or the municipality concerned. Specific rules vary by state, region and municipality.\n\nIn Delhi, for example, births must be registered within 21 days by the hospital or institution, or by a family member if the birth has taken place at home. After registration, a birth certificate can be obtained by applying to the relevant authority. Certificates can also be issued under special provisions to adopted children, and undocumented orphans. Overseas births can also be registered.\n\nSome municipalities, such as the Greater Chennai Corporation allow for fully digital birth certificates to be applied for, printed, and verified online.\n\nEarlier testimony was a small book format-bound, now it's just a page format B5, provided with watermarks. The certificate has a series and number.\n\nThe blank insert is made in Russian. In the case of being issued in one of the country's republics, its national language form liner can be made in Russian and in the official language of the Republic on the model, approved by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation.\n\nA birth certificate can be filled with a handwritten way and with the use of technical equipment (typewriters, computers). When filling in the form is carried handwritten way, all records are made legibly in ink or paste blue or black. If you are using a computer or typewriter dye must be black. The quality of paste, ink, dye, used in completing the documents should ensure the preservation of text documents for a set retention period. When filling out the birth certificate is not allowed to have it in patches, blots, and erasures, cuts.\n\nA birth certificate is signed by the head of the registrar or other public authority issuing the certificate (e.g., the consulate). Signature of the registrar should have a transcript (initials and surname) and sealed with the official seal.\n\nCurrently, information about the nationality of the parent(s) is mentioned in the certificate on request. By default, this column is empty\n\nWhen making a citizenship, a special insert is issued to the birth certificate. In testimony to Stamp.\n\nFebruary 6, 2007 ear of citizenship were canceled, on the reverse side of the Certificate began to put a stamp on the child's citizenship. This rule applies to newborns or those who change or restores documents.\n\nOld shells are valid for achieving a child 14 years old and to change them is not necessary.\n\nThe birth certificate of the child's parent(s) can get (not deprived of parental rights), itself a child of full age, guardian(s) or caregiver(s). Issuance of the document is made in the offices of the registrar, \"ZAGS\" ().\n\nWith the loss of the certificate, a new document is issued by the registry office (ZAGS) in the place of the original receipt on the basis of a written application.\n\nIn the U.S., the issuance of birth certificates is a function of the Vital Records Office of the states, capital district, territories and former territories. Birth in the U.S. establishes automatic eligibility for American citizenship, so a birth certificate from a local authority is commonly provided to the federal government to obtain a U.S. passport. However, the U.S. State Department does issue a Consular Report of Birth Abroad for children born to U.S. citizens (who are also eligible for citizenship), including births on military bases in foreign territory.\n\nThe federal and state governments have traditionally cooperated to some extent to improve vital statistics. From 1900 to 1946 the U.S. Census Bureau designed standard birth certificates, collected vital statistics on a national basis, and generally sought to improve the accuracy of vital statistics. In 1946 that responsibility was passed to the U.S. Public Health Service. Unlike the British system of recording all births in \"registers\", the states file an individual document for each and every birth.\n\nThe U.S. National Center for Health Statistics creates standard forms that are recommended for use by the individual states to document births. However, states are free to create their own forms. As a result, neither the appearance nor the information content of birth certificate forms is uniform across states. These forms are completed by the attendant at birth or a hospital administrator, which are then forwarded to a local or state registrar, who stores the record and issues certified copies upon request.\n\nAccording to the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, there were more than 6,000 entities issuing birth certificates. The Inspector General report states that according to the staff at the Immigration and Naturalization Service’s Forensics Document Laboratory the number of legitimate birth certificate versions in use exceeded 14,000.\n\nIn the case of applying for a U.S. passport, not all legitimate government-issued birth certificates are acceptable:\nA certified birth certificate has a registrar's raised, embossed, impressed or multicolored seal, registrar's signature, and the date the certificate was filed with the registrar's office, which must be within 1 year of your birth. Please note, some short (abstract) versions of birth certificates may not be acceptable for passport purposes.\nBeginning April 1, 2011, all birth certificates must also include the full name of the applicant's parent(s).\nThe U.S. State Department has paid close attention to abstract certificates from both Texas and California. There have been reports of a high incidence of midwife registration fraud along the border region between Texas and Mexico, and the Texas abstract certificate form does not list the name or occupation of the attendant. The California Abstract of Birth did not include an embossed seal, was no longer considered a secure document, and have not been issued in California since 2001.\n\nMost hospitals in the U.S. issue a souvenir birth certificate which may include the footprints of the newborn. However, these birth certificates are not legally accepted as proof of age or citizenship, and are frequently rejected by the Bureau of Consular Affairs during passport applications. Many Americans believe the souvenir records to be their official birth certificates when in reality they hold little legal value.\n\nIn the United States, when an adoption is finalized, the government seals the original birth certificate and will issue a replacement birth certificate substituting the individual's birth name with the name selected by the adoptive parent(s), and replacing the birth parent(s) name with the adoptive parent(s). In those cases, adopted individuals are not granted access to their own original birth certificate upon request. Laws vary depending on the state where the birth was originally registered and the adoption was finalized. Some states allow adopted people unrestricted access to their own original birth certificate, while in others the certificate is available only if the biological parent(s) have given their permission or a petition has been granted by the court of jurisdiction. Other jurisdictions do not allow adopted people access to their own original birth certificate under any circumstances. \n\nBirth certificates are no longer issued by the Swedish government, and the only available option is to ask the Swedish Tax Authority for an extract from the Population Register (personbevis), which will specify birthplace, date of birth, and parents, among other information, such as marriage status and current registered address. When a child is born in Sweden, the nurse is obligated to report that to the Swedish Tax Authority, which in turn will issue a Personal identity number (personnummer) for the child. This number can then later be used to request the extract.\n\n"}
{"id": "55657499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55657499", "title": "Blanka Matković", "text": "Blanka Matković\n\nBlanka Matković (born 30 April 1976) is a Croatian historian and political scientist from the University of Warwick. Matković is a co-founder and the president of the Croatian Society of Historians Dr Rudolf Horvat.\nBlanka Matković was born in Split and graduated history and journalism at the University of Zagreb, where she also obtained Master of Science degree in international relations and national security. Later she completed and MPhil degree in the Department of History at the University of Warwick, United Kingdom, where she was studying the war crimes and human rights violations committed by the Communist regime at the end and after the Second World War in Croatia and Slovenia. She is currently doing her Ph.D. in Politics and International Studies at the University of Warwick focusing on Croatian war veterans and their role in Croatian society after the Homeland War (1991-1995).\n\n"}
{"id": "12594177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12594177", "title": "British Library Sounds", "text": "British Library Sounds\n\nBritish Library Sounds (previously named Archival Sound Recordings) is a British Library service providing free online access to a diverse range of spoken word, music and environmental sounds from the British Library Sound Archive. Anyone with web access can use the service to search, browse and listen to 50,000 digitised recordings. Playback and download of an additional 22,000 recordings is available to Athens or Shibboleth users in UK higher and further education. The service was originally launched with funding by the Jisc.\n\nThere are over 20,000 hours of rarely heard audio material available online. Images and transcripts are also available for some recordings to further enrich the content.\n\nRecordings may be searched by keywords or browsed by collection types, dates, languages, performer names and subjects. Several collections can be browsed using a map interface.\n\nThe British Library Sounds website covers a broad range of content:\n\n\nAfrican Writers' Club\n\nOver 250 hours of radio programmes about African literary, social and cultural affairs. Made at the Transcription Centre in London, the recordings were broadcast throughout Africa and sometimes on the BBC World Service. Ranging from radio dramas to magazine programmes, from politics to poetry, this collection provides a view of Africa in the mid-1960s.\n\nArt and design interviews\n\nIntimate encounters with the life and work of British painters, sculptors, photographers and architects. Interviewees include sculptors Elisabeth Frink and Eduardo Paolozzi; painters Terry Frost, Paula Rego and Michael Rothenstein; photographers Grace Robertson, Mari Mahr and Helen Chadwick; and architects Denys Lasdun, Ralph Erskine, Edward Hollamby and Patrick Gwynne. \n\nDavid Rycroft Africa recordings\n\nSouth African-born linguist and musicologist, Rycroft made many field trips to villages, townships and settlements around South Africa between the 1960s and '80s. Fascinated by the relationship between oral traditions and musical structure, Rycroft focused on unaccompanied choral singing, songs composed for indigenous musical instruments, and urban music. \n\nKlaus Wachsmann Uganda recordings\n\nKlaus Wachsmann made roughly 1,500 unique recordings of indigenous music in Uganda, most of which have never been published before. This collection dates from the late 1940s, when Wachsmann was curator of the Uganda Museum in Kampala, and includes field recordings and performances at the museum.\n\nOral history of jazz in Britain\n\nAn informal and anecdotal history of the music, venues and people that defined jazz in the UK. Through interviews with musicians, promoters and label owners, this collection focuses on some of the less well known aspects of British jazz – including the impact in Britain of overseas musicians, British developments in free improvisation in the 1960s, jazz outside London, and the contribution of women to the music.\n\nOral history of recorded sound\n\nThis teaching package reflects in sound, image and text the cultural and economic impact of developments in recording technology over the 20th century. It also features oral history interviews with significant figures in the worlds of music, radio, and the recording industry – with a focus on backroom innovators who have rarely enjoyed the limelight.\n\nSound Maps\n\nA series of interactive maps allowing browsing and listening of accents and dialects, nature sounds, oral memories and traditional music.\n\nSoundscapes\n\nThe word \"soundscape\" was coined by composer R. Murray Schafer to identify sounds that “describe a place, a sonic identity, a sonic memory, but always a sound that is pertinent to a place” This selection draws together mechanical and industrial sounds (including transport and fog-horns), soundscapes of the natural world across continents, urban soundscapes, and wildlife sounds from around the globe. \n\nSt Mary-le-Bow public debates\n\nAt one o’clock every Tuesday lunchtime for fifteen years (1964–79), Joseph McCulloch, the Rector of St Mary-le-Bow Church in the City of London, invited a well-known public figure to debate an issue of the day. Popular among city workers, guests included Enoch Powell on race, Diana Rigg on single parentage, A. J. Ayer on moral responsibility, Edna O’Brien on fear, and Germaine Greer on free will.\n\nSyliphone record label recordings from Guinea\n\nOver 7,800 recordings of music from Guinea, originally released on the Syliphone record label. It includes many unique recordings not previously heard outside of Guinea. A large proportion has not been broadcast in over 20 years, as it was politically sensitive and subject to censorship. The list of artists and musicians represented in the collection is a who’s who of Guinean and African music. There are many unreleased recordings by major stars such as Kandia Sory Kouyaté, Bembeya Jazz National, Fodé Conté, and Kadé Diawara, in addition to hundreds of unreleased recordings by Guinea’s national and regional orchestras, troupes and ensembles. There is also a wealth of material by famous Guinean artists who, as they were never commercially recorded, are virtually unknown outside of Guinea, including Farba Tela (an inspiration to Ali Farka Touré), Mama Kanté, Binta Laaly Sow, Koubia Jazz, and Jeanne Macauley. The collection also features thousands of traditional songs from all of Guinea’s regions and ethnic groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "32713865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32713865", "title": "Buni culture", "text": "Buni culture\n\nBuni culture is a prehistoric clay pottery culture that flourished in coastal northern West Java, Jakarta and Banten around 400 BC to 100 AD and probably survived until 500 AD. The culture was named after its first discovered archaeological site, Buni village in Babelan, Bekasi, east of Jakarta. \n\nBuni culture is known for its peculiar pottery with incised, geometrical decorations, and the fact that it yielded the first Indian rouletted wares recorded from Southeast Asia. Clay potteries were later developed with evidence found in Anyer to Cirebon. Artifacts such as food and drink containers, dated from 400 BC to AD 100 have been found, mostly as burial gifts.\n\nBuni clay pottery culture bears similarities with Sa Huỳnh culture in Vietnam. Pottery artefacts were discovered such as clay dishes, pots, water jars and other daily utensils. Megalithic culture can also be found, such as beads as burial gifts, and also menhir and stone table. The people that supported Buni culture had established trade with foreign people, and the kingdom of Tarumanagara is probably the successor of Buni culture after the adoption of Hinduism. The remnants of Buni pottery have also been discovered at the Batujaya Archaeological Site and the Kendaljaya site in Karawang.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21532366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21532366", "title": "Buyong Adil", "text": "Buyong Adil\n\nBuyong Adil (born Mohd Yusuf bin Adil in 1907) was a National Historian of Malaysia. At that time, Buyong was a nickname given by parents to their favourite child. He also known as Cikgu Buyong.(Teacher Buyong)\n\nYusuf bin Adil, better known as Buyong Adil, was born in January 1907 at Teluk Intan, Perak. He received his early education at Sekolah Melayu Teluk Anson and later entered the Kolej Latihan Sultan Idris (SITC), Tanjung Malim in 1924. He was the best student at SITC and became a lecturer there after graduating. He began to write on history after his teacher, Cikgu Abdul Hadi Hassan, shifted to Kelantan. In 1939, Buyong Adil wrote Sejarah Alam Melayu Penggal IV and Sejarah Melayu V.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation, he was selected to undergo Japanese teacher training at the Tokyo Shihan Gakko which is located in Kajang, Selangor.\n\nAfter the Japanese occupation ended, he was appointed as a headmaster in a school in Ipoh. During this time, he started being actively involved in the Perak Malay Coalition (Perikatan Melayu Perak). This led to the British appointing him as the head for the radio station for all the Malay schools in Singapore (which was at that time still a part of Malaysia). He also directed his first play after the Japanese occupation. 'Megat Terawis' was staged mainly for the teachers and their family members. Later, he became the historical advisor for Tan Sri P Ramlee's first movie to be shown in colour: 'Hang Tuah'.\n\nAfter retiring from the government in 1962, he was chosen as a member of Singapore's Public Services Commission (Perkhidmatan Awam Singapura) from 1963 until 1969. During that time, he managed to write Sejarah Johor, Sejarah Selangor, Sejarah Perak and Sejarah Pahang. He also assisted Tan Sri Senu Abdul Rahman in collecting materials for the book Revolusi Mental in 1970.\n\nIn 1971, he started work at Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka (DBP) as a research officer for history. This was when he began to write his other books such as Sejarah Sarawak, Sejarah Perlis, Sejarah Negeri Sembilan, Sejarah Melaka, Sejarah Kedah, Sejarah Terengganu and Sejarah Kelantan which were published by DBP. He died on August 31, 1976.\n\nThe Government English Secondary School (GESS) in Tapah was renamed as SM Buyong Adil Tapah in 1977.\n\nBuyong Adil married at the age of 22. His wife, Halimah binti Mohd Daim, was from Gopeng, Perak. She died in April 2005. They had 2 sons and 3 daughters.\n\n\nBuyong died on August 31, 1976, at the age of 69 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2012260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2012260", "title": "Chester Mystery Plays", "text": "Chester Mystery Plays\n\nThe Chester Mystery Plays is a cycle of mystery plays originating in the city of Chester, England and dating back to at least the early part of the 15th century.\n\nA record of 1422 shows that the plays took place at the feast of Corpus Christi and this appears to have continued until 1521. Plays on Corpus Christi Day in 1475 included 'The trial and flagellation of Christ' and 'The Crucifixion'. The plays were then expanded into a three-day cycle on Whit Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. In the years between the plays there was the Chester Midsummer Watch Parade instead.\n\nThe plays are based on biblical texts, from creation to the Last Judgement. They were enacted by common guildsmen and craftsmen on mounted stages that were moved around the city streets, with each company or guild performing one play.\n\nPrior to the event the Crier read out these banns: \"The Aldermen and stewards of evrie societie and Companie draw youselves to your said severall companies according to Ancient Customme and soe to appear with your said severall Companies everie man as you are Called upon paine that shall fall thereon\". Such early banns exhorted each company to perform well.\n\nUnder Queen Elizabeth I the plays were seen as 'Popery' and banned by the English Church. Despite this a play cycle was performed in 1568 and the cathedral paid for the stage and beer as in 1562. They were performed again, over four days, in 1575. This resulted in the mayor, when he retired from his office, being taken to the Star Chamber in London to answer allegations against him, but with the support of the council (or assembly) he was freed.\n\nOne edition of the plays begins with \"The Banes which are reade beefore the beginninge of the playes of Chester, 4 June, 1600\". Each play ends with \"Finis. Deo gracias! per me Georgi Bellin. 1592\". \n\nThe most well-known of the Chester plays relates the story of Noah and the Great Flood, traditionally acted by the Drawers of Dee (watercarriers). In it, Noah and his sons load up the provisions and the animals while his wife gossips with the neighbours. Noah urges her to hurry aboard, \"The flood comes in fleeting fast; On every side it speadeth full fare; For fear of drowning I am agast; Good gossip, let us draw near\". But Noah's wife keeps on drinking and gossipping until, eventually, the sons carry her onto the ark by force. At the end of the play, God provides a rainbow as a token that mankind has had enough punishment for its sinful deeds.\n\nThe plays were revived in Chester in 1951 as part of the Festival of Britain and are presented there every five years. The 2018 run of plays was from 27 June to 14 July.\n\nThe Players of St Peter have been performing the plays in London roughly every five years since 1946.\n\nUnder the direction of Dr. Jeff Dailey, the American Theatre of Actors in New York City performed the penultimate play, \"The Coming of Antichrist,\" in August, 2017.\n\nIn the 20th century, the Noah's Flood play was set operatically by both Benjamin Britten (\"Noye's Fludde\") and Igor Stravinsky (\"The Flood\").\n\n\"The Mysteries\" is an adaption by the poet Tony Harrison, principally based upon the Wakefield Cycle, but incorporating scenes from the York, Chester and N-Town canons, first performed in 1977 at the National Theatre, and again revived in 2000 as a celebration of the millennium.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5098292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5098292", "title": "Chrétien Le Clercq", "text": "Chrétien Le Clercq\n\nChrétien Le Clercq, O.M.R., (born 1641) was a Recollect Franciscan friar and missionary to the Mi'kmaq on the Gaspé peninsula of Canada in the mid-17th century. He was a chronicler of New France, who wrote two early histories, and translator of a Native American language of that region, adapting an apparently indigenous mnemonic glyph system into a writing system known as Míkmaq hieroglyphic writing.\n\nA Fleming by birth, Le Clercq joined the Recollect Province of St. Anthony, based in Artois. He was sent to the missions of the French colonial empire in Canada in 1673. On 11 October of that year, he was put in charge of the Micmac mission by Francois de Laval, the Bishop of Quebec. There he learned the language of that tribe and devoted himself to its evangelization. In 1676 he tried to persuade the Micmacs that it would be more advantageous to build houses in the French manner, which earned him a stunning rebuke from the Micmac Chief. \n\nLe Clercq's superiors sent him back to France in 1680 on business connected with the Franciscan missions in Canada. He returned the following spring with letters authorizing the foundation of a friary in Montreal, where he went during the summer of 1681 to carry out this work. In November he returned to the Micmac mission, where he spent the next twelve years. \n\nIn autumn 1686 Le Clercq left Canada permanently and returned to France, where he filled various positions of authority in the Artois Province of his Order. The date of his death is unknown, but he was still living in 1698. After his return to France, he completed two works which he published at Paris in 1691. An English translation of one of these works, \"Nouvelle Relation de la Gaspesie\", was provided by William F. Ganong in 1910 as part of the Champlain Society's General Series.\n\n"}
{"id": "48294089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48294089", "title": "Dana Hudkins Crawford", "text": "Dana Hudkins Crawford\n\nDana Hudkins Crawford (born 1931) is an American architectural conservation developer and preservationist working in Denver, Colorado. She has been involved in almost every renovation project in downtown Denver, from the initial designation of the LoDo District and creation of Larimer Square to the Union Station. She was recognized by her alma mater, Radcliffe College, for the Larimer Square project, was inducted into the Women's Hall of Fame, and in 2013 the hotel at the restoration project of Union Station was renamed as the Crawford Hotel in honor of her contributions to preserve the history of Denver.\n\nDana Hudkins was born on July 22, 1931 in Salina, Kansas. She graduated from Monticello College and then went on to complete her undergraduate degree at the University of Kansas in 1953. From there, she enrolled in Radcliffe College and studied Business Administration, graduating in 1954. That same year, she moved to Denver, Colorado and began working in a public relations firm. In 1955, she married a geologist, John W. R. Crawford III, and they subsequently had four sons.\n\nIn the early 1960s, when the Lower Downtown (LoDo) area of the 1400 block of Larimer Street was being proposed for demolition, Crawford organized a group of investors to buy the property for a potential retail redevelopment project. They formed an organization called Historic Denver, Inc. with the goal of preserving Denver's architectural heritage and save the Molly Brown House. There was strong opposition to the preservation movement from the Denver Urban Renewal Authority as well as community opposition from those who thought that designating the area as a preservation district would limit new development in the area. Finding financing was another hurdle, as many banks did not want to lend to a woman. She surmounted the problem by obtaining financing from the New York Life Insurance Company. After about 10 years of planning, in 1971, Denver's first Historic District, Larimer Square, was launched. She received a Radcliffe Alumnae Recognition Award for her successful development of Larimer Square.\n\nAfter completing the Larimer Square project, Crawford started work on Union Station neighborhood but worked alone for nearly 30 years. In the interim, she worked on preservation of the Oxford Hotel, LoDo's Millennium retail office project, two Flour Mill Loft redevelopment ventures, the Ice House, Coors Field, and others. In 1996, she was inducted into the Colorado Women's Hall of Fame for her preservation and development of downtown Denver. The Flour Mill Loft Project, completed in 1999, was one of Crawford's personal favorites, as it was \"the first residential project in the Platte Valley\". \n\nIn 2008, several investors got together and a plan was formed to design, finance and build a transit system linked to Union Station. The station itself was accepting proposals and Crawford put together a team, which they called the Union Station Alliance, to make a bid. They won the project in December 2011 and a 99-year lease on the station and set about obtaining approval from the National Park Service to make alterations to the historic site. After a year, approval was attained, the consortium changed equity partners and the development got underway. In 2013, the hotel within Union Station, was renamed the Crawford Hotel in Crawford's honor as a way to recognize her contributions to the revitalization of downtown Denver.\n"}
{"id": "54397403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54397403", "title": "Desert Uniforms, Patches, and Insignia of the US Armed Forces", "text": "Desert Uniforms, Patches, and Insignia of the US Armed Forces\n\nDesert Uniforms, Patches, and Insignia of the US Armed Forces is a comprehensive reference book that provides a detailed study of desert uniforms, patches, and insignia worn by the US Armed Forces in combat from Desert Storm, through Somalia and in the campaigns of Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nThe book is the definitive reference of desert combat uniforms, patches and insignia worn by the US Armed Forces in Desert Storm, Somalia, Iraq and Afghanistan. It covers information on US Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard desert uniforms and patches. Its detailed research is designed to provide a reference for veterans, historians, collectors and reenactors. \n\nThe March 2017 issue of the Military Trader Magazine stated that, \"While the term 'bible' is thrown around rather loosely in our hobby 'definitive' retains its significance as an expression of honor and endorsement. I do not hesitate to say \"Desert Uniforms, Patches, and Insignia of the US Armed Forces\" by Born and Barns is the \"definitive\" volume for anyone who is collecting the shortest-lived - but some of the most distinctive - uniforms in U.S. military history. Not only is it a stand alone reference for the collector and historian, it is also a tribute to the men and women of the US Armed Forces during this chaotic time in history. \n\nThe Trading Post, the quarterly journal of the American Society of Military Insignia Collectors described the book as, \"a roadmap of those changes that will be an invaluable guide to the collector of uniforms and insignia from this somewhat unappreciated era in our military history... I highly recommend it to anyone with even a passing interest in collecting militaria of the last thirty or so years\" \n\nThe Fort Lee Traveller Newspaper reported that, \"In preparation for the book, they accumulated more than 1,000 government and theater-made desert patches and over 300 uniforms. A large number are in it. These came from numerous veterans and collectors...Born said, “writing the book was about two things for us – recognizing the service and sacrifice of the men and women of the armed forces who wore the desert uniform as well as advancing this area of military collecting. Whenever a reference like this is published, there is an increased interest among collectors.” \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15562544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15562544", "title": "Dreaming (Australian Aboriginal art)", "text": "Dreaming (Australian Aboriginal art)\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal art, a Dreaming is a totemistic design or artwork, which can be owned by a tribal group or individual. \nThis usage of Stanner's term was popularised by Geoffrey Bardon in the context of the Papunya Tula artist collective he established in the 1970s.\n\n\"Dreamtime\" is commonly used as a term for the animist creation narrative of indigenous Australians for a personal, or group, creation and for what may be understood as the \"timeless time\" of formative creation and perpetual creating. In addition, the term applies to places and localities on indigenous Australian traditional land (and throughout non-traditional Australia) where the uncreated creation spirits and totemic ancestors, or \"genii loci\", reside. \nThe term was coined by W. E. H. Stanner in 1956, and popularized from the 1960s. based on the description of indigenous Australian mythology by Lucien Levy-Bruhl (\"La Mythologie Primitive\", 1935).\n\nThe term \"Dreaming\" is based on the root of the term \"altjira\" (\"alcheringa\") used by the Aranda people, although it has since been pointed out that the rendition is based on a mistranslation.\nStanner introduced the derived term of \"dreamtime\" in the 1970s.\n\n\"A Dreaming\" is a story owned by different tribes and their members that explains the creation of life, people and animals. A Dreaming story is passed on protectively as it is owned and is a form of \"intellectual property\". In the modern context, an Aborigine cannot relate, or paint someone else's dreaming or creation story without prior permission of the Dreaming's owner. Someone's dreaming story must be respected, as the individual holds the knowledge to that Dreaming story. Certain behavioural constraints are associated with dreaming ownership; for instance, if a Dreaming is painted without authorisation, such action can meet with accusations of \"stealing\" someone else's Dreaming. Geoffrey Bardon's three books on Papunya (1971, 1976, 1978) specifically mention conflict related to possession of a dreaming story. He uses as an example the Honey Ant Dreaming painted in contemporary times on the school walls of Papunya. Before the mural could be painted, all tribes in Papunya: the \"Pintupi\", \"Warlpiri\", \"Arrernte\", and \"Anmatyerre\", had to agree that the honey ant was an acceptable mural, since Papunya is the meeting place for all tribes. After the mural was painted, one of the senior elders, Long Tom Onion, reminded Bardon that he, the elder, had suggested the mural be painted. Later, Bardon realised Long Tom Onion owned that Dreaming. He comprehended the importance of Dreaming ownership among indigenous Australians, especially those who retain tribal and traditional connections.\n\nAmong the Central Desert tribes of Australia, the passing on of the Dreaming story is for the most part gender-related. For example, the late artist from the Papunya movement, Clifford Possum Tjapaltjarri, painted ceremonial dreamings relating to circumcision and love stories, and lessons for \"naughty boys\". His daughters Gabriella Possum and Michelle Possum have tended to paint the \"Seven Sisters\" Dreaming or the Pleiades, as they inherited that Dreaming through the maternal line. Consequently, they have painted their \"Grandmother's Country\", which is an expression of their inherited ownership of the land through knowledge of the dreamings. Clifford and his daughters have not painted the same subjects; Clifford has never painted the \"Seven Sisters Dreaming\". By tribal law, his daughters are not allowed to see male tribal ceremonies, let alone paint them.\n\nDreamings as \"property\" have also been used by a few Aboriginal tribes to argue before the High Court of Australia their title over traditional tribal land. Paintings of Dreamings, travelling journeys and ceremonies tend to depict the locations where they occur. There have been cases in which 10-metre-long paintings have been presented to the Court, as evidence of the tribe's title deed after \"terra nullius\" was struck down during the tenure of Chief Justice Gerard Brennan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21664341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21664341", "title": "Edward Jones-Imhotep", "text": "Edward Jones-Imhotep\n\nEdward Jones-Imhotep is a historian of technology, academic and currently an associate professor at York University. He received a B.A. from York University in 1995 and a Ph.D. from Harvard in 2001.\n\nHe was a recipient of the Mellon Fellowship from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation in Humanistic Studies in 1995. Imhotep's research lies at the intersection of historical and philosophical questions surrounding the modern physical sciences and technology. His work has been published in many scientific journals in the United States, Canada and all over the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1378584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1378584", "title": "Francesco Angeloni", "text": "Francesco Angeloni\n\nFrancesco Angeloni (after 1559 – 29 November 1652) was an Italian writer, antiquary, historian and collector of a wide range of objects including classical antiquities and drawings.\n\nBorn in Terni in Umbria—a region of Italy at that time part of the Papal States—he studied in Perugia then moved to Rome, where he served as secretary of cardinal Ippolito Aldobrandini, later Pope Clement VIII (d. 1605), and for a time as chief notary to the Papacy.\n\nAngeloni dedicated most of his life in collecting antique coins, medallions, books, paintings, and archaeological artifacts and achieved fame in Europe with the publication in 1641 of his edition of the \"Historia Augusta\", a history of ancient Rome since Julius Caesar to Constantine the Great, illustrated with antique coins of the times: \"Historia Augusta da Giulio Cesare infino a Costantino il Magno illustrata con la verità delle antiche medaglie\" (1641, with a second edition edited by Bellori in 1685). He also wrote comedies and 38 \"noveli\" and a \"Storia di Terni\" (1646), a history of his hometown.\n\nIn his house on the Pincio hill, from 1634 Angeloni raised and educated his nephew Giovanni Pietro Bellori, who became a well-known biographer of artists, antiquarian and archaeologist. Angeloni left his collections to Bellori on condition they were kept intact, but the family contested the will and Bellori only received the house, with the collections being dispersed. His collections were large and diverse, but included some 600 drawings by his friend Annibale Carracci, a large library, and the diverse range of objects typical of the contemporary cabinet of curiosities, but on an unusually large scale. He left a manuscript catalogue. Giovanni Battista Agucchi and Camillo Massimi (uncle of the cardinal of the same name) were particular friends.\n\n"}
{"id": "165723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165723", "title": "François-René de Chateaubriand", "text": "François-René de Chateaubriand\n\nFrançois-René, vicomte de Chateaubriand (; ; 4 September 1768 – 4 July 1848), was a French writer, politician, diplomat and historian who founded Romanticism in French literature. Descended from an old aristocratic family from Brittany, Chateaubriand was a royalist by political disposition. In an age when a number of intellectuals turned against the Church, he authored the \"Génie du christianisme\" in defense of the Catholic faith. His works include the autobiography \"Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe\" (\"Memoirs from Beyond the Grave\"), published posthumously in 1849–1850. \n\nHistorian Peter Gay says that Chateaubriand saw himself as the greatest lover, the greatest writer, and the greatest philosopher of his age. Gay states that Chateaubriand \"dominated the literary scene in France in the first half of the nineteenth century.\"\n\nBorn in Saint-Malo, the last of ten children, Chateaubriand grew up at his family's castle (the château de Combourg) in Combourg, Brittany. His father, René de Chateaubriand (1718–86), was a former sea captain turned ship owner and slave trader. His mother's maiden name was Apolline de Bedée. Chateaubriand's father was a morose, uncommunicative man, and the young Chateaubriand grew up in an atmosphere of gloomy solitude, only broken by long walks in the Breton countryside and an intense friendship with his sister Lucile. His youthful solitude and wild desire produced a suicide attempt with a hunting rifle, although the weapon failed to discharge.\n\nChateaubriand was educated in Dol, Rennes and Dinan. For a time he could not make up his mind whether he wanted to be a naval officer or a priest, but at the age of seventeen, he decided on a military career and gained a commission as a second lieutenant in the French Army based at Navarre. Within two years, he had been promoted to the rank of captain. He visited Paris in 1788 where he made the acquaintance of Jean-François de La Harpe, André Chénier, Louis-Marcelin de Fontanes and other leading writers of the time. When the French Revolution broke out, Chateaubriand was initially sympathetic, but as events in Paris became more violent he decided to journey to North America in 1791. He was given the idea to leave Europe by Chrétien-Guillaume de Lamoigon de Malesherbes, who also encouraged him to do some botanical studies.\n\nIn \"Voyage en Amérique\", published in 1826, Chateaubriand writes that he arrived in Philadelphia on 10 July 1791. He visited New York, Boston and Lexington, before leaving by boat on the Hudson River to reach Albany. He then followed the Mohawk trail up the Niagara Falls where he broke his arm and spent a month in recovery in the company of a Native American tribe. Chateaubriand then describes Native American tribes' customs, as well as zoological, political and economic consideration. He then says that a raid along the Ohio River, the Mississippi, Louisiana and Florida took him back to Philadelphia, where he embarked on the \"Molly\" in November to go back to France.\n\nThis experience provided the setting for his exotic novels \"Les Natchez\" (written between 1793 and 1799 but published only in 1826), \"Atala\" (1801) and \"René\" (1802). His vivid, captivating descriptions of nature in the sparsely settled American Deep South were written in a style that was very innovative for the time and spearheaded what later became the Romantic movement in France. As early as 1916, scholarship has cast doubt on Chateaubriand's claims that he was granted an interview with George Washington and that he actually lived for a time with the Native Americans he wrote about. Critics have questioned the veracity of entire sections of Chateaubriand's claimed travels, notably his passage through the Mississippi Valley, Louisiana and Florida.\n\nChateaubriand returned to France in 1792 and subsequently joined the army of Royalist \"émigrés\" in Koblenz under the leadership of Louis Joseph de Bourbon, Prince of Condé. Under strong pressure from his family, he married a young aristocratic woman, also from Saint-Malo, whom he had never previously met, Céleste Buisson de la Vigne. In later life, Chateaubriand was notoriously unfaithful to her, having a series of love affairs. His military career came to an end when he was wounded at the siege of Thionville, a major clash between Royalist troops and the French Revolutionary Army. Half-dead, he was taken to Jersey and exiled to England, leaving his wife behind.\n\nChateaubriand spent most of his exile in extreme poverty in London, scraping a living offering French lessons and doing translation work, but a stay in Suffolk (Beccles) was more idyllic. Here Chateaubriand fell in love with a young English woman, Charlotte Ives, but the romance ended when he was forced to reveal he was already married. During his time in Britain, Chateaubriand also became familiar with English literature. This reading, particularly of John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" (which he later translated into French prose), had a deep influence on his own literary work.\n\nHis exile forced Chateaubriand to examine the causes of the French Revolution, which had cost the lives of many of his family and friends; these reflections inspired his first work, \"Essai sur les Révolutions\" (1797). An attempt in 18th-century style to explain the French Revolution, it predated his subsequent, romantic style of writing and was largely ignored. A major turning point in Chateaubriand's life was his conversion back to the Catholic faith of his childhood around 1798.\n\nChateaubriand took advantage of the amnesty issued to \"émigrés\" to return to France in May 1800 (under the French Consulate); Chateaubriand edited the \"Mercure de France\". In 1802, he won fame with \"Génie du christianisme\" (\"The Genius of Christianity\"), an apology for the Catholic Christian faith which contributed to the post-revolutionary religious revival in France. It also won him the favour of Napoleon Bonaparte, who was eager to win over the Catholic Church at the time. \n\nJames McMillan argues that a Europe-wide Catholic Revival emerged from the change in intellectual climate from intellectually oriented classicism to emotionally based romanticism. He concludes that Chateaubriand’s book:\n\nAppointed secretary of the legation to the Holy See by Napoleon, he accompanied Cardinal Fesch to Rome. But the two men soon quarrelled and Chateaubriand was nominated as minister to Valais (in Switzerland). He resigned his post in disgust after Napoleon ordered the execution in 1804 of Louis XVI's cousin, Louis-Antoine-Henri de Bourbon-Condé, duc d'Enghien. Chateaubriand was, after his resignation, completely dependent on his literary efforts. However, and quite unexpectedly, he received a large sum of money from the Russian Tsarina Elizabeth Alexeievna. She had seen him as a defender of Christianity and thus worthy of her royal support.\n\nChateaubriand used his new-found wealth in 1806 to visit Greece, Asia Minor, Palestine, Egypt, Tunisia and Spain. The notes he made on his travels later formed part of a prose epic, \"Les Martyrs\", set during the Roman persecution of early Christianity. His notes also furnished a running account of the trip itself, published in 1811 as the \"Itinéraire de Paris à Jérusalem\" (\"Itinerary from Paris to Jerusalem\"). The Spanish stage of the journey inspired a third novella, \"Les aventures du dernier Abencérage\" (\"The Adventures of the Last Abencerrage\"), which appeared in 1826.\n\nOn his return to France, he published a severe criticism of Napoleon, comparing him to Nero and predicting the emergence of a new Tacitus. Napoleon famously threatened to have Chateaubriand sabered on the steps of the Tulieries Palace for it, but settled for merely banishing him from the city. Chateaubriand retired to a modest estate he called \"La Vallée aux Loups\" (\"Wolf Valley\"), in Châtenay-Malabry, south of central Paris. Here he finished \"Les Martyrs\", which appeared in 1809, and began the first drafts of his memoirs. He was elected to the Académie française in 1811, but, given his plan to infuse his acceptance speech with criticism of the Revolution, he could not occupy his seat until after the Bourbon Restoration. His literary friends during this period included Madame de Staël, Joseph Joubert and Pierre-Simon Ballanche.\n\nHe became a major figure in politics as well as literature. At first he was a strong Royalist in the period up to 1824. His liberal phase lasted from 1824 to 1830. After that he was much less active.\nAfter the fall of Napoleon, Chateaubriand rallied to the Bourbons. On 30 March 1814, he wrote a pamphlet against Napoleon, titled \"De Buonaparte et des Bourbons\", of which thousands of copies were published. He then followed Louis XVIII into exile to Ghent during the Hundred Days (March–July 1815), and was nominated ambassador to Sweden.\n\nAfter Napoleon's final defeat, Chateaubriand became peer of France and state minister (1815). In December 1815 he voted for Marshal Ney's execution. However, his criticism of King Louis XVIII in \"La Monarchie selon la Charte\", after the \"Chambre introuvable\" was dissolved, got him disgraced. He lost his function of state minister, and joined the opposition, siding with the Ultra-royalist group supporting the future Charles X, and becoming one of the main writers of its mouthpiece, \"Le Conservateur\".\n\nChateaubriand sided again with the Court after the murder of the Duc de Berry (1820), writing for the occasion the \"Mémoires sur la vie et la mort du duc\". He then served as ambassador to Prussia (1821) and the United Kingdom (1822), and even rose to the office of Minister of Foreign Affairs (28 December 1822 – 4 August 1824). A plenipotentiary to the Congress of Verona (1822), he decided in favor of the Quintuple Alliance's intervention in Spain during the \"Trienio Liberal\", despite opposition from the Duke of Wellington. Although the move was considered a success, Chateaubriand was soon relieved of his office by Prime Minister Jean-Baptiste de Villèle, the leader of the ultra-royalist group, on 5 June 1824.\n\nConsequently, he moved towards the liberal opposition, both as a Peer and as a contributor to \"Journal des Débats\" (his articles there gave the signal of the paper's similar switch, which, however, was more moderate than \"Le National\", directed by Adolphe Thiers and Armand Carrel). Opposing Villèle, he became highly popular as a defender of press freedom and the cause of Greek independence. After Villèle's downfall, Charles X appointed him ambassador to the Holy See in 1828, but he resigned upon the accession of the Prince de Polignac as premier (November 1829).\n\nIn 1830, he donated a monument to the French painter Nicolas Poussin in the church of \"San Lorenzo in Lucina\" in Rome.\n\nIn 1830, after the July Revolution, his refusal to swear allegiance to the new House of Orléans king Louis-Philippe put an end to his political career. He withdrew from political life to write his \"Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe\" (\"Memoirs from Beyond the Grave\"), published posthumously in two volumes in 1849–1850. It reflects his growing pessimism regarding the future. Although his contemporaries celebrated the present and future as an extension of the past, Chateaubriand and the new Romanticists abandoned this nostalgic outlook. Instead he foresaw chaos, discontinuity, and disaster. His diaries and letters often focused on the upheavals he could see every day--abuses of power, excesses of daily life, and disasters yet to come. His melancholy tone suggested astonishment, surrender, betrayal, and bitterness.\n\nHis \"Études historiques\" was an introduction to a projected \"History of France\". He became a harsh critic of the \"bourgeois king\" and the July Monarchy, and his planned volume on the arrest of the duchesse de Berry caused him to be unsuccessfully prosecuted.\n\nChateaubriand, along with other Catholic traditionalists such as Ballanche or, on the other side of the political divide, the socialist and republican Pierre Leroux, was one of the few of his time who attempted to conciliate the three terms of \"Liberté\", \"égalité\" and \"fraternité\", going beyond the antagonism between liberals and socialists as to what interpretation to give the seemingly contradictory terms. Chateaubriand thus gave a Christian interpretation of the revolutionary motto, stating in the 1841 conclusion to his \"Mémoires d'Outre-Tombe\":\n\nIn his final years, he lived as a recluse in an apartment at 120 rue du Bac, Paris, leaving his house only to pay visits to Juliette Récamier in Abbaye-aux-Bois. His final work, \"Vie de Rancé\", was written at the suggestion of his confessor and published in 1844. It is a biography of Armand Jean le Bouthillier de Rancé, a worldly seventeenth-century French aristocrat who withdrew from society to become the founder of the Trappist order of monks. The parallels with Chateaubriand's own life are striking. Chateaubriand died in Paris during the Revolution of 1848 and was buried, as he had requested, on the tidal island Grand Bé near Saint-Malo, accessible only when the tide is out.\n\nHis descriptions of Nature and his analysis of emotion made him the model for a generation of Romantic writers, not only in France but also abroad. For example, Lord Byron was deeply impressed by \"René\". The young Victor Hugo scribbled in a notebook, \"To be Chateaubriand or nothing.\" Even his enemies found it hard to avoid his influence. Stendhal, who despised him for political reasons, made use of his psychological analyses in his own book, \"De l'amour\".\n\nChateaubriand was the first to define the \"vague des passions\" (\"intimations of passion\") that later became a commonplace of Romanticism: \"One inhabits, with a full heart, an empty world\" (\"Génie du Christianisme\"). His political thought and actions seem to offer numerous contradictions: he wanted to be the friend both of legitimist royalty and of republicans, alternately defending whichever of the two seemed more in danger: \"I am a Bourbonist out of honour, a monarchist out of reason, and a republican out of taste and temperament\". He was the first of a series of French men of letters (Lamartine, Victor Hugo, André Malraux, Paul Claudel) who tried to mix political and literary careers.\n\n\"We are convinced that the great writers have told their own story in their works\", wrote Chateaubriand in \"Génie du christianisme\". \"One only truly describes one's own heart by attributing it to another, and the greater part of genius is composed of memories\". This is certainly true of Chateaubriand himself. All his works have strong autobiographical elements, overt or disguised.\n\nGeorge Brandes, in 1901, compared the works of Chateaubriand to those of Rousseau and others:\nThe year 1800 was the first to produce a book bearing the imprint of the new era, a work small in size, but great in significance and mighty in the impression it made. \"Atala\" took the French public by storm in a way which no book had done since the days of \"Paul and Virginia\". It was a romance of the plains and mysterious forests of North America, with a strong, strange aroma of the untilled soil from which it sprang; it glowed with rich foreign colouring, and with the fiercer glow of consuming passion.\nChateaubriand was a food enthusiast; Chateaubriand steak is most likely to have been named after him.\n\nChateaubriand was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1816.\nA French school in Rome (Italy) is named after him.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8234809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8234809", "title": "G. E. R. Lloyd", "text": "G. E. R. Lloyd\n\nSir Geoffrey Ernest Richard Lloyd (born 25 January 1933), usually cited as G. E. R. Lloyd, is a historian of Ancient Science and Medicine at the University of Cambridge. He is the Senior Scholar in Residence at the Needham Research Institute in Cambridge, England.\n\nLloyd was born in London where he spent the first two months of his life, and raised in London and Wales. His father, a Welsh physician, specialised in tuberculosis. After a nomadic early education in six different schools, he obtained a scholarship to Charterhouse, where, despite an indifferent academic culture, he excelled in mathematics, and learned Italian from Wilfrid Noyce. The curriculum was biased to classics, which he was advised, misleadingly in his later view, to pursue. On obtaining another scholarship to King's College, Cambridge he came under the influence of the pre-Socratics specialist John Raven. He spent a year in Athens (1954–1955) where, apart from learning modern Greek, he also mastered the bouzouki.\n\nA keen interest in anthropology informed his reading of ancient Greek philosophy, and his doctoral studies, conducted under the supervision of Geoffrey Kirk, focused on patterns of polarity and analogy in Greek thought, a thesis which, revised, was eventually published in 1966. \n\nHe was called up for National Service in 1958. On 14 March 1959, following training, he was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the British Army's Intelligence Corps. He was given the service number 460084. He was posted to Cyprus after the EOKA insurgency. \n\nOn his return to Cambridge in 1960, a chance conversation with Edmund Leach stimulated him to read deeply in the emerging approach of structural anthropology being formulated by Claude Lévi-Strauss. In 1965, thanks to the support of Moses Finley, he was appointed to an assistant lectureship. A recurring element of his approach was the consideration of how political discourse influenced the forms of scientific discourse and demonstration in Ancient Greece.\n\nAfter a visit to lecture in China in 1987, Lloyd turned to the study of Classical Chinese. This has added a broad comparative scope to his more recent work, which, following in the wake of Joseph Needham's pioneering studies, analyses how the different political cultures of ancient China and Greece influenced the different forms of scientific discourse in those cultures.\n\nIn 1989 he was appointed Master of Darwin College, where he remains as an Honorary Fellow. Presently he spends a part of each year in his other home in Spain, where much of his writing is now done.\n\nLloyd was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 1983 and awarded its Kenyon Medal in 2007. He received the George Sarton Medal of the History of Science Society in 1987. He was elected to Honorary Foreign Membership of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1995, to the International Academy for the History of Science in 1997, the year in which he was knighted for 'services to the history of thought'. In 2013 he received the Dan David Prize on the modern legacy of the ancient world. He is a member of the Advisory Board of The International Academic Forum. In 2014 he received the International Fyssen Prize for work in Cross-Cultural Cognition. In 2015, he was elected a Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales (FLSW).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5126087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5126087", "title": "Geistesgeschichte", "text": "Geistesgeschichte\n\nGeistesgeschichte (from German \"Geist\", \"spirit\" [here connoting the metaphysical realm, in contradistinction to the material], and \"Geschichte\", \"history\", \"science\") is a concept in the history of ideas denoting the branch of study concerned with the \"undercurrents\" of cultural manifestations, within the history of a people, that are peculiar to a specific timeframe.\n\nThe term is a largely untranslatable term, sometimes translated as \"intellectual history\" or \"history of ideas\", and sometimes used synonymously with \"Problemgeschichte\". The branch of study it denotes is often seen as having been inspired by the type of work done by Wilhelm Dilthey and his followers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1105110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1105110", "title": "Jacobite risings", "text": "Jacobite risings\n\nThe Jacobite risings, also known as the Jacobite rebellions or the War of the British Succession, were a series of uprisings, rebellions, and wars in Great Britain and Ireland occurring between 1688 and 1746. The uprisings had the aim of returning James II of England and VII of Scotland, the last Catholic British monarch, and later his descendants of the House of Stuart, to the throne of Great Britain after they had been deposed by Parliament during the Glorious Revolution. The series of conflicts takes its name Jacobitism, from , the Latin form of James.\n\nJacobite rising may refer to any of the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "18928956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18928956", "title": "Jonathan Hart", "text": "Jonathan Hart\n\nJonathan Locke Hart is a Canadian poet, literary scholar and historian.\n\nHart trained at the University of Toronto and the University of Cambridge. He has held visiting appointments at Harvard University, Princeton University, Toronto, Cambridge and elsewhere and has given readings and lectures in many countries. He is currently employed by Shanghai Jiao Tong University.\n\nHart's poetry has appeared in \"Harvard Review\", \"Grain\", \"Mattoid\", and he has published books of poetry, such as \"Breath and Dust\", \"Dream China\" and \"Dream Salvage\". He has written extensively on Shakespeare (for instance, \"Theater and World\"), on literary theory (\"Northrop Frye\"), and on history, especially on empire and on the expansion of Europe (for example, \"Representing the New World\", and \"Empires and Colonies\"). His poetry often explores the psychology of landscape and a sense of loss and exile. A central concern of his creative work and non-fiction is the relation between history and fictions (literary and legal).\n\n\"The Times Higher Education Supplement\" revealed that since September 2011, Hart had simultaneously held two full-time academic positions until some time prior to 2013, one at the University of Alberta in Canada and another at Durham University in England. The University of Alberta only became aware of the situation in late 2012, and Hart is no longer employed by Durham.\n\n"}
{"id": "361729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=361729", "title": "Joshua the Stylite", "text": "Joshua the Stylite\n\nJoshua the Stylite (also spelled Yeshu Stylite and Ieshu Stylite) is the attributed author of a chronicle which narrates the history of the war between the Byzantine Empire and Persians between 502 and 506, and which is one of the earliest and best historical documents preserved in Syriac.\n\nThe work owes its preservation to having been incorporated in the third part of the \"Chronicle of Zuqnin\", and may probably have had a place in the second part of the \"Ecclesiastical History\" of John of Ephesus, from whom (as François Nau has shown) Pseudo-Dionysius copied all or most of the matter contained in his third part. The chronicle in question is anonymous, and Nau has shown that the note of a copyist, which was thought to assign it to the monk Joshua of Zuqnin near Amida (Diyarbakir), more probably refers to the compiler of the whole work in which it was incorporated. In any case, the author was an eyewitness of many of the events which he describes, and must have been living at Edessa during the years when it suffered so severely during the Roman–Persian Wars. His view of events is everywhere characterized by his belief in overruling Providence; and as he eulogizes Flavian II, the Chalcedonian patriarch of Antioch, in warmer terms than those in which he praises his great Monophysite contemporaries, Jacob of Serugh and Philoxenus of Mabbog, he was probably an orthodox Catholic.\n\nThe chronicle was first made known in Assemani's abridged Latin version (B O i. 260–83) and was edited in 1876 by Paulin Martin and (with an English translation) by William Wright in 1882. After an elaborate dedication to a friend the priest and abbot Sergius, a brief recapitulation of events from the death of Julian in 363 and a fuller account of the reigns of the Persian kings Peroz I (457-484) and Balash (484-488), the writer enters upon his main theme: the history of the disturbed relations between the Persian and Roman Empires from the beginning of the reign of Kavadh I (489–531), which culminated in the great war of 502–6.\n\nFrom October 494 to the conclusion of peace near the end of 506, the author gives an annalistic account, with careful specification of dates, of the main events in Mesopotamia, the theatre of conflict such as the siege and capture of Amid by the Persians (502–3), their unsuccessful siege of Edessa (503), and the abortive attempt of the Romans to recover Amida (504–5). The work was probably written a few years after the conclusion of the war. The style is graphic and straightforward, and the author was evidently a man of good education and of a simple, honest mind.\n\nA modern German translation with a good historical commentary was published 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28462984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28462984", "title": "Juan Marichal (historian)", "text": "Juan Marichal (historian)\n\nJuan Marichal (2 February 1922 – 9 August 2010) was a Spanish-Canarian historian, literary critic and essayist. Marichal also served as a professor at Harvard University. Marichal spent years in exile during the Francoist State following the end of the Spanish Civil War.\n\nMarichal was born on 2 February 1922 in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain. He moved with his family to Madrid in 1935. However, he soon relocated to both Valencia and Barcelona before attending school in Paris, France. He graduated from French lycee in Casablanca, near the end of the Spanish Civil War.\n\nIn 1941, Marichal boarded a ship with other exiles from the Spanish Civil War and sailed from Casablanca to Mexico at just 19 years old. He enrolled at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, where he studied literature and philosophy. He worked at a box factory as a student to pay for his tuition.\n\nMarichal became a professor at Luis Vives Institute, an organization in Mexico founded by Spaniard exiles. He moved to the United States, where he enrolled as a doctoral student at Princeton University in New Jersey due to a scholarship obtained for him by Edmundo O'Gorman, a Mexican historian and philosopher. Marichal received his doctorate in literature from Princeton University in 1949.\n\nMarichal taught literature at Harvard University in Massachusetts after obtaining his doctorate, where his courses, which focused on Spain and the Spanish-language, included \"El Cid\". He later spent more than 10 years writing his most famous work, \"The Complete Works of Manuel Azaña\", a Spanish politician. He also published the writings and works of his father-in-law, Spanish poet Pedro Salinas, \"Three Voices of Pedro Salinas\", in 1976. Marichal was a recipient of the Spain National Prize in Literature in 1996 for his work as a historian and was awarded the Canary Prize for Literature in 1987.\n\nJuan Marichal died on 9 August 2010 at his home in Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico, at the age of 88. His death was announced by the regional government of the Canary Islands. He was predeceased by his wife, Solita, the daughter of poet Pedro Salinas. The couple had two sons, Miguel Marichal Salinas and Carlos Marichal Salinas.\n"}
{"id": "17718605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17718605", "title": "Jukka Nevakivi", "text": "Jukka Nevakivi\n\nJukka Taneli Nevakivi, (8 October 1931 in Pudasjärvi), is a Finnish historian, Ph.D. 1963. He studied at the University of London, completing his Ph.D. in 1963. Nevakivi was a journalist 1954-63 for \"Kaleva\" and \"Suomen Kuvalehti\", between 1963 and 1979 he served within the Finnish foreign département in Budapest, Cairo and Paris. In 1980-95 he was professor in political history at Helsinki University.\n\nHe published \"Britain, France, and the Middle East, 1914-1920\" in 1968, highlighting the development of Anglo-French relations in the Middle East during the peace settlement of 1919. He has also written extensively about dramatic events in the Finnish republics history. Amongst his productions are \"Muurmannin legioona\" (1970), \"The appeal that was never made\" (1976), which is about the West allies during the Finnish Winter War, and\"Ystävistä vihollisiksi\" (1976), about Finland in British politics after the Winter War. He has also written some studies about the years after the second world war, including \"Zdanov Suomessa\" (1995) and \"Miten Kekkonen pääsi valtaan ja Suomi suomettui\" (1996). In 2000 he wrote again a book about the relationship between the West allies and Finland during the Winter War, \"Apu jota ei annettu\" (2000).\n\n"}
{"id": "53444879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53444879", "title": "Kabukibu!", "text": "Kabukibu!\n\nKurogo Kurusu, a high school boy who loves the art of kabuki, so much that it is annoying. He yearns to perform kabuki for a club, but his school doesn't have one. Kurogo decides to create his own and sets out to gather members.\n\nThe novel series, published by Kadokawa Shoten, began with the first volume published on August 24, 2013, and has collected five volumes as of December 2016.\n\nThe manga adaptation by Chizu Kamikō began serialization on Kadokawa Shoten's \"Young Ace\" on February 3, 2017.\n\nAn anime television series adaptation was announced on August 12, 2016. The anime is directed by Kazuhiro Yoneda, with Studio Deen produced the animation, Yoshiko Nakamura handled series composition, Majiro adapted the original character designs by CLAMP, and Masaru Yokoyama composed the music. The anime aired from April 6, 2017 to June 22, 2017 on TBS and ran for 12 episodes. The opening theme, \"Running High\", is performed by Hiro Shimono. Sentai Filmworks have licensed the anime and streamed it on Amazon Anime Strike.\n\nAnime News Network had four editors review the first episode of the anime: Despite seeing it as a typical high school club premise, Lynzee Loveridge was optimistic about learning the art of kabuki as the show progresses from its debut episode based on the studio producing it; Jacob Chapman said that the show's \"refreshing sincerity and quirky flavor\" of slice-of-life could bring in viewers intrigued by the notion of knowing more about its subject matter but may have to get through subpar animation and a lack of personality to get there; Paul Jensen was enthralled by the protagonist Kurogo's passion to learn more about kabuki performances and the shift in art style when viewing them but questioned whether the show can keep that pace with further episodes. The fourth reviewer, Rebecca Silverman, felt that the slice-of-life structure the introductory episode takes could hold back the potential it has with its premise, saying that it \"doesn't feel like a great representation of what the show could become, even more so than other series.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "21687744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21687744", "title": "Lexikon des Mittelalters", "text": "Lexikon des Mittelalters\n\nThe Lexikon des Mittelalters (\"Lexicon of the Middle Ages\", LMA, LexMA) is a German encyclopedia on the history and culture of the Middle Ages. Written by authors from all over the world, it comprises more than 36,000 articles in 9 volumes. Historically the works range from the Late Antiquity to about 1500, covering the Byzantine Empire and the Arab world .\n\nThe first six volumes were published by Artemis (later Artemis & Winkler), Munich and Zürich; volumes seven through nine by LexMA, Munich. In 2000, an electronic (standalone) edition of the \"Lexikon\" was published on CD-ROM by Brepols.\n\nThe first volume was widely praised upon publication; G.A. Holmes, in \"The English Historical Review\", foresaw that the entire encyclopedia would be \"a valuable reference work of a kind which medievalists hitherto lacked.\" H. Chadwick, in \"The Journal of Theological Studies\", called the lexicon \"a necessary and valuable work of reference.\" Its coverage of subjects related to Islam was praised, though the same reviewer called the coverage of topics related to Judaism \"comparatively modest.\"\n\nThe CD-ROM edition was chosen as one of the \"Selected Reference Books of 2001-2002\" by \"College & Research Libraries\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13286041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13286041", "title": "Maithili Karna Kayasthak Panjik Sarvekshan", "text": "Maithili Karna Kayasthak Panjik Sarvekshan\n\nMaithil Karna Kayasthak Panjik Sarvekshan (\"A Survey of the Panji of the Karan Kayasthas of Mithila\") is a book written by Binod Bihari Verma in Maithili. It is a research study on the available ancient manuscripts in the Mithila region, called as Panjis, which are genealogical charts of Maithil Brahmin and Kayasthas castes. This study deals with the manuscripts available in respect of Karna Kayasthas.\n\nThe work is based on several manuscripts of Panjis obtained from various panjikars of Darbhanga, Bihar. The Panjis concerned deals with the genealogy of the Karna Kayasthas. The manuscript is written in Tirhuta script (Maithili script) on palm leaves and old paper called as 'Basaha' made out of indigenous material. The work deals with \"Mulgrams\" (original village homes) and the transmigration of the Karna Kayasthas to subsequent places of living. The book is important for the geographical and social study of North Bihar of the concerned period. The work also deals with personalities of eminence among the Karna Kayasthas since 12th century. Dr (Prof) Surendra Lal Das along with Panjikars and other eminent Karna kayastha members formed \"Akhil Bhartiya Karn kayastha Mahasabha\" to protect the original and traditional values of Panji .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58016996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58016996", "title": "Mark-Twain-Straße", "text": "Mark-Twain-Straße\n\nThe Mark-Twain-Straße is a street in the Munich district Pasing-Obermenzing, which was built around 1900. It was named in 1947 after the American writer Mark Twain (1835-1910).\n\nOriginally called Kirchenstraße, the street connects Alte Allee with Barystraße. It belonged to the extension planning of the Villenkolonie Pasing II between Alter Allee and Pippinger Straße, which to this day was not carried out. Between Barystraße 10 and 12 there is an undeveloped property owned by the city of Munich, so that the Mark-Twain-Straße can be extended at any time in the direction of Pippinger Straße.\n\nUntil the First World War, only two villas were built on Mark-Twain- Straße, No. 2 and 4. The complete development of the alley laid out street happened in recent decades. \n\n"}
{"id": "201458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201458", "title": "Miniskirt", "text": "Miniskirt\n\nA miniskirt (sometimes hyphenated as mini-skirt or separated as mini skirt) is a skirt with a hemline well above the knees, generally at mid-thigh level, normally no longer than below the buttocks; and a dress with such a hemline is called a minidress or a miniskirt dress. A \"micro-miniskirt\" or microskirt is a miniskirt with its hemline at the upper thigh.\n\nShort skirts have existed for a long time, though they were generally not called \"mini\" or became a fashion trend until the 1960s. Instances of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists and historians as far back as c. 1390–1370 BCE. In the early 20th century, the dancer Josephine Baker's banana skirt that she wore for her mid-1920s performances in the Folies Bergère was subsequently likened to a miniskirt. Extremely short skirts became a staple of 20th-century science fiction, particularly in 1940s pulp artwork such as that by Earle K. Bergey who depicted futuristic women in a \"stereotyped combination\" of metallic miniskirt, bra and boots.\n\nHemlines were just above the knee in 1961, and gradually climbed upward over the next few years. By 1966, some designs had the hem at the upper thigh. Stockings with suspenders were not considered practical with miniskirts and were replaced with coloured tights. The popular acceptance of miniskirts peaked in the \"Swinging London\" of the 1960s, and has continued to be commonplace, particularly among younger women and teenage girls. Before that time, short skirts were only seen in sport and dance clothing, such as skirts worn by female tennis players, figure skaters, cheerleaders, and dancers.\n\nSeveral designers have been credited with the invention of the 1960s miniskirt, most significantly the London-based designer Mary Quant and the Parisian André Courrèges.\n\nWhile very short skirts have existed for a long time, they were generally not called \"mini\" until the 1960s. Figurines produced by the Vinča culture (c. 5700–4500 BCE) have been interpreted by archaeologists as representing women in miniskirt-like garments. One of the oldest surviving garments resembling a miniskirt is the short woollen skirt with bronze ornaments worn by the Egtved Girl for her burial in the Nordic Bronze Age (c. 1390–1370 BCE).\n\nOne of the earliest known cultures where women regularly wore clothing resembling miniskirts was a subgroup of the Miao people of China, the Duan Qun Miao (, literally \"short skirt Miao\"). In albums produced during the Qing dynasty (1644–1912) from the early eighteenth century onwards to illustrate the various types of Miao, the Duan Qun Miao women were depicted wearing \"mini skirts that barely cover the buttocks.\" At least one of the \"One Hundred Miao Pictures\" albums contains a poem that specifically describes how the women's short skirts and navel-baring styles were an identifier for this particular group.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the dancer Josephine Baker's banana skirt that she wore for her mid-1920s performances in the Folies Bergère was subsequently likened to a miniskirt.\n\nExtremely short skirts became a staple of 20th-century science fiction, particularly in 1940s pulp artwork such as that by Earle K. Bergey who depicted futuristic women in a \"stereotyped combination\" of metallic miniskirt, bra and boots. The \"sci-fi miniskirt\" was seen in genre films and television programmes as well as on comic book covers. The very short skirts worn by regular female characters Carol and Tonga (played by Virginia Hewitt and Nina Bara) in the 1950–55 television series \"Space Patrol\" have been suggested as probably the first 'micro-minis' to have been seen on American television. It was later seen as remarkable that only one formal complaint relating to the skirts could be recalled, and that by an ad agency in relation to an upwards shot of Carol climbing a ladder. Hewitt pointed out that even though the complainant claimed they could see up her skirt, her matching tights rendered her effectively clothed from neck to ankle. Otherwise, \"Space Patrol\" was applauded for being wholesome and family-friendly, even though the women's short skirts would have been unacceptable in other contexts. Although the 30th-century women in \"Space Patrol\" were empowered, experts in their field, and largely treated as equals, \"it was the skirts that fuelled indelible memories.\" The \"Space Patrol\" skirts were not the shortest to be broadcast at the time – the German-made American 1954 series \"Flash Gordon\" showed Dale Arden (played by Irene Champlin) in an even shorter skirt.\n\nThe manager of an unnamed shop in London's Oxford Street began experimenting in 1960 with skirt hemlines an inch above the knees of window mannequins, and noted how positively his customers responded. Hemlines were just above the knee in 1961, and gradually climbed upward over the next few years. By 1966, some designs had the hem at the upper thigh. Stockings with suspenders (American English: \"garters\") were not considered practical with miniskirts and were replaced with coloured tights. Towards the end of the 1960s, an even shorter version, called the microskirt or micro-mini, emerged.\n\nExtremely short skirts, some as much as eight inches above the knee, were observed in Britain in the summer of 1962. The young women who wore these short skirts were called \"Ya-Ya girls,\" a term derived from \"yeah, yeah\" which was a popular catcall at the time. One retailer noted that the fashion for layered net crinoline petticoats raised the hems of short skirts even higher. The designer Mary Quant was quoted as saying that \"short short skirts\" indicated youthfulness which was seen as desirable, fashion-wise.\n\nThe earliest known reference to the miniskirt is in a humorous 1962 article datelined Mexico City and describing the \"mini-skirt\" or \"Ya-Ya\" as a controversial item of clothing that was the latest thing on the production line there. The article characterized the miniskirt as stopping eight inches above the knee. It referred to a writing by a psychiatrist, whose name it did not provide, who had argued that the miniskirt was a youthful protest of international threats to peace. Much of the article described the reactions of men, who were said to favor the fashion on young women to whom they were unrelated, but to oppose it on their own wives and fiancés.\n\nIn the UK, by shortening the skirts to less than they were classed as children's garments rather than adult clothes. Children's clothing was not subject to purchase tax whereas adult clothing was. The avoidance of tax meant that the price was correspondingly less.\n\nSeveral designers have been credited with the invention of the 1960s miniskirt, most significantly the London-based designer Mary Quant and the Parisian André Courrèges. Although Quant reportedly named the skirt after her favourite make of car, the Mini, there is no consensus as to who designed it first. Valerie Steele has noted that the claim that Quant was first is more convincingly supported by evidence than the equivalent Courrèges claim. However, the contemporary fashion journalist Marit Allen, who edited the influential \"Young Ideas\" pages for UK \"Vogue\", firmly stated that the British designer John Bates was the first to offer fashionable miniskirts. Other designers, including Pierre Cardin and Yves Saint Laurent, had also been raising hemlines at the same time.\n\nThe miniskirt is one of the garments most widely associated with Mary Quant. Quant herself is ambivalent about the claim that she invented the miniskirt, stating that her customers should take credit, as she herself wore very short skirts, and they requested even shorter hemlines for themselves. Regardless of whether or not Quant invented the miniskirt, it is widely agreed that she was one of its highest-profile champions. Quant loved cars and named the garment after them, saying that car and skirt were both \"optimistic, exuberant, young, flirty,\" and complemented each other.\n\nQuant had started experimenting with shorter skirts in the late 1950s, when she started making her own designs up to stock her boutique on the King's Road. Among her inspirations was the memory of seeing a young tap-dancer wearing a \"tiny skirt over thick black tights,\" influencing her designs for young, active women who did not wish to resemble their mothers. In addition to the miniskirt, Quant is often credited with inventing the coloured and patterned tights that tended to accompany the garment, although their creation is also attributed to the Spanish couturier Cristóbal Balenciaga who offered harlequin-patterned tights in 1962 or to Bates.\n\nIn 2009, a Mary Quant minidress was among the 10 British \"design classics\" featured on a series of Royal Mail stamps, alongside the Tube map, the Spitfire, and the red telephone box.\n\nCourrèges explicitly claimed that he invented the mini, and accused Quant of only \"commercialising\" it. He presented short skirts measuring four inches above the knee in January 1965 for that year's Spring/Summer collection, although some sources claim that Courrèges had been designing miniskirts as early as 1961, the year he launched his couture house. The collection, which also included trouser suits and cut-out backs and midriffs, was designed for a new type of athletic, active young woman. Courrèges had presented \"above-the-knee\" skirts in his August 1964 haute couture presentation which was proclaimed the \"best show seen so far\" for that season by \"The New York Times\". The Courrèges look, featuring a knit bodystocking with a gabardine miniskirt slung around the hips, was widely copied and plagiarised, much to the designer's chagrin, and it would be 1967 before he again held a press showing for his work. Steele has described Courrèges's work as a \"brilliant couture version of youth fashion\" whose sophistication far outshone Quant's work, although she champions the Quant claim. Others, such as Jess Cartner-Morley of \"The Guardian\" explicitly credit him, rather than Quant, as the miniskirt's creator.\n\nThe idea that John Bates, rather than Quant or Courrèges, innovated the miniskirt had an influential champion in Marit Allen, who as editor of the influential \"Young Ideas\" pages for UK \"Vogue\", kept track of up-and-coming young designers. In 1966 she chose Bates to design her mini-length wedding outfit in white gabardine and silver PVC. In January 1965 Bates's \"skimp dress\" with its \"short-short skirt\" was featured in \"Vogue,\" and would later be chosen as the Dress of the Year. Bates was also famous for having designed mini-coats and dresses and other outfits for Emma Peel (played by Diana Rigg) in the TV series \"The Avengers\", although the manufacturers blocked his request for patterned tights to enable Emma Peel to fight in skirts if necessary.\n\nAn alternative origin story for the miniskirt came from Barbara Hulanicki of the London boutique Biba, who recalled that in 1966 she received a delivery of stretchy jersey skirts that had shrunk drastically in transit. Much to her surprise, the ten-inch long garments rapidly sold out.\n\nIn 1967 Rudi Gernreich was among the first American designers to offer miniskirts, in the face of strongly worded censure and criticism from American couturiers James Galanos and Norman Norell. Criticism of the miniskirt also came from the Paris couturier Coco Chanel,who declared the style \"disgusting\" despite being herself famed for supporting shorter skirts in the 1920s.\n\nOwing to Quant's position in the heart of fashionable \"Swinging London\", the miniskirt was able to spread beyond a simple street fashion into a major international trend. The style came into prominence when Jean Shrimpton wore a short white shift dress, made by Colin Rolfe, on 30 October 1965 at Derby Day, first day of the annual Melbourne Cup Carnival in Australia, where it caused a sensation. According to Shrimpton, who claimed that the brevity of the skirt was due mainly to Rolfe's having insufficient material, the ensuing controversy was as much as anything to do with her having dispensed with a hat and gloves, seen as essential accessories in such a conservative society.\n\nUpper garments, such as rugby shirts, were sometimes adapted as mini-dresses. With the rise in hemlines, the wearing of tights or pantyhose, in place of stockings, became more common. Some European countries banned mini-skirts from being worn in public, claiming they were an invitation to rapists. In response, Quant retorted that there was clearly no understanding of the tights worn underneath.\n\nThe response to the miniskirt was particularly harsh in Africa, where many state governments saw them as an un-African garment and part of the corrupting influence of the West. Young city-dwelling African women who wore Western clothing such as the miniskirt were particularly at risk of attack based on their clothing, although Robert Ross notes that gender roles and politics were also a key factor. The urban woman earning her own living and independence was seen as a threat to masculine authority, particularly if she wore clothing seen as un-African. Short skirts were seen as indicating that their wearer was a prostitute, and by conflation, a witch who drained male-dominated society of its vitality and energy. In addition to prostitute and witch, miniskirts also became associated with secretaries, schoolgirls and undergraduates, and young women with \"sugar daddies\" as lovers or boyfriends. Andrew M. Ivaska has noted that these various tropes boiled down to a basic fear of female power, fear that a woman would use her education or sexual power to control men and/or achieve her own independence, and that the miniskirt therefore became a tangible object of these fears.\n\nIn 1968 the Youth League of Tanzania's ruling TANU party launched Operation Vijana. Organised and run by young men, Vijana was a morality campaign targeting indecent clothing, which led to attacks on women with at least one stoning reportedly triggered by the victim's miniskirt. Gangs of youths patrolled bus stations and streets looking for women dressed \"inappropriately,\" and dealing out physical attacks and beatings. In Ethiopia, an attack on women wearing miniskirts triggered a riot in which a hundred cars were set on fire and fifty people injured.\n\nKamuzu Banda, president of Malawi, described miniskirts as a \"diabolic fashion which must disappear from the country once and for all.\" It is also reported that Kenneth Kaunda, president of Zambia, cited apartheid and the miniskirt as his two primary hates. By the mid-1970s the Zanzibar revolutionary party had forbidden both women and men from wearing a long list of garments, hairstyles and cosmetics, including miniskirts.\n\nFrom 1969 onwards, the fashion industry largely returned to longer skirts such as the \"midi\" and the \"maxi\". Journalist Christopher Booker gave two reasons for this reaction: firstly, that \"there was almost nowhere else to go ... the mini-skirts could go no higher\"; and secondly, in his view, \"dressed up in mini-skirts and shiny PVC macs, given such impersonal names as 'dolly birds', girls had been transformed into throwaway plastic objects\". Certainly this lengthening of hemlines coincided with the growth of the feminist movement. However, in the 1960s the mini had been regarded as a symbol of liberation, and it was worn by some, such as Germaine Greer and, in the following decade, Gloria Steinem. Greer herself wrote in 1969 that:\n\nAlthough they disappeared from mainstream fashion by the mid-70s, miniskirts never entirely went away. This was evidenced by Deborah Harry of the group Blondie, who often wore miniskirts during the \"new wave\" era of the late 70s; and by the female cast members of the TV show \"Hee Haw\", who were known as the \"Hee Haw Honeys,\" who always wore country-style minidresses even during the miniskirt's fashion hiatus in the late 70s and early 80s; and as mentioned above, by female tennis players, figure skaters, cheerleaders, and dancers. The song \"(I Don't Want to Go to) Chelsea\" (1978), by new wave artist Elvis Costello, contained the line: \"There's no place here for the mini-skirt waddle\".\n\nIn spring of 1982, (see June \"Time Magazine\") short skirts began to re-emerge, notably in the form of \"rah-rahs\", which were modeled on those worn by female cheerleaders at sporting and other events. In 1985, the British designer Vivienne Westwood offered her first \"mini-crini,\" an abbreviated version of the Victorian crinoline. Its mini-length, bouffant silhouette inspired the puffball skirts widely presented by more established designers such as Christian Lacroix. In 1989, Westwood's mini-crini was described as having combined two conflicting ideals – the crinoline, representing a \"mythology of restriction and encumbrance in woman's dress\", and the \"equally dubious mythology of liberation\" associated with the miniskirt.\n\nFrom the 1980s, many women began to incorporate the miniskirt into their business attire, a trend which grew during the remainder of the century. The titular character of the 1990s television program \"Ally McBeal\", a lawyer portrayed by Calista Flockhart, has been credited with popularising micro-skirts.\nThe very short skirt is an element of Japanese school uniform, which since the 1990s has been exploited by young women who are part of the \"kogal\" (or \"gyaru\") subculture as part of their look. \"Gyaru\" deliberately wear their skirts short enough to reveal panties (actually a second pair worn over actual knickers) as a form of exhibitionism known as \"panchira\".\n\nIn the early 21st century micro-minis were once again revived. In 2003 Tom Ford, at that time described as one of the few designers able to effortlessly dictate changes in fashion, stated that micro-skirts would be the height of fashion for Spring/Summer 2003. For fashionable wear, early 21st century microskirts were often worn with leggings or tights in order to avoid revealing too much. At this time, an even briefer version of the micro-mini emerged, creating a garment sometimes described as a \"belt-skirt.\"\n\nA BBC article in 2014 wrote that miniskirts remained as contemporary a garment as ever, retaining their associations with youth. In an early 2010s study the department store Debenhams found that women continued buying miniskirts up to the age of 40, whilst 1983 studies showed that 33 years old was when the average woman had stopped buying them. Debenham's report concluded that by the 2020s, miniskirts would be seen as a wardrobe staple for British women in their 40s and early 50s.\n\nDespite this, in the early 21st century, miniskirts are still seen as controversial, and remain subject to bans and regulation. Valerie Steele told the BBC in 2014 that even though miniskirts no longer had the power to shock in most Western cultures, she would hesitate to wear one in most parts of the world. She described the garment as symbolic of looking forward to future freedom and backwards to a \"much more restricted past.\" and noted that international rises in extreme conservatism and religious fundamentalism had led to an anti-women backlash, some of which was shown through censure and criticism of women wearing \"immodest\" clothing. In 2010 the mayor of Castellammare di Stabia in Italy ordered that police fine women for wearing \"very short\" miniskirts. In the 2000s, a ban on miniskirts at a teacher's college in Kemerovo was claimed by lawyers to be against the terms of equality and human rights as laid out by the Russian constitution, whilst in Chile, the women's minister, Carolina Schmidt, described a regional governor's ban on public employees wearing minis and strapless tops as \"absolute nonsense\" and challenged their right to regulate other people's clothing. In July 2010, Southampton city council also tried to regulate their female employees's wardrobes, telling them to avoid miniskirts and dress \"appropriately.\"\n\nMiniskirts regularly appear in Africa as part of controversies, something that has continued since the 1960s. In the early 21st century alone, instances have included a proposed ban on miniskirts in Uganda justified by claiming that they were a dangerous distraction to drivers and would cause road accidents, and in 2004, a leaflet campaign in Mombasa instructed women to dress modestly and \"shun miniskirts\", leading to the Kenyan government denying that they wanted a ban. Since the 1990s, women perceived to be \"indecently dressed\" might be stripped in public often by gangs of men, but sometimes by other women. These acts took place in Kenya, Zambia and elsewhere, including incidents in Johannesburg in 2008 and 2011 which led to similar attacks in various states including Sudan, Malawi, Zimbabwe and elsewhere. The President of Malawi, Bingu wa Mutharika, was forced to make a statement in 2012 after male gangs forcibly stripped women in Lilongwe and Mzuzu. By this point, \"miniskirt protests\" regularly followed these acts of violence, with the protesters defiantly wearing miniskirts. In late February 2010, a group of about 200 Ugandan women demonstrated against a so-called \"miniskirt law,\" an anti-pornography legislation which specifically forbade women to dress \"in a manner designed to sexually excite,\" or from wearing clothing that revealed their thighs and/or other body parts. Uganda revisited their proposed ban in 2013, with Simon Lokodo, Minister of Ethics and Integrity, proposing another anti-pornography bill which would outlaw revealing \"intimate parts,\" defined as \"anything above the knee,\" and vowing that women who wore miniskirts would be arrested. While most of these proposed bans come from male politicians, in 2009 Joice Mujuru, Zimbabwe's Vice President, had to deal with rumours that she intended to ban miniskirts and trousers for women. In Africa, one of the main issues with the miniskirt since the 1960s is that it is seen as representative of protest against predominantly male authority, an accusation also applied to trousers for women which are perceived as blurring the gender divide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58373131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58373131", "title": "Mykola Shytyuk", "text": "Mykola Shytyuk\n\nMykola Shytyuk (; 30 November 1953 – 1 September 2018) was a Ukrainian academician, historian, doctor of historical sciences. Since 2008 he was a director of the Institute of history and law of the Mykolaiv University.\n\nShytnyuk was born on 30 November 1953 in the village Lysa Hora, Lysa Hora Raion (today Pervomaisk Raion) in a family of construction engineer and teacher of geography. After graduating a rural school in Lysa Hora, Shytyuk enrolled in pedagogic uchilishche (junior college) in Novyi Buh, where he graduated in 1972 with a diploma of teacher of early grades. After that throughout most of the 1970s he worked in several schools of Mykolaiv Oblast with a small break when he served his military obligation in Belorussian Military District.\n\nAfter being demobilized, in 1975 Shytyuk also enrolled in the history faculty of the Kiev University.\n\nOn 1 September 2018 the scientist and researcher of Holodomor was found dead in an apartment in Mykolaiv with a knife in his back.\n\n"}
{"id": "4638396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4638396", "title": "Nakaz", "text": "Nakaz\n\nNakaz, or Instruction, of Catherine the Great () was a statement of legal principles written by Catherine II of Russia, and permeated with the ideas of the French Enlightenment. It was compiled as a guide for the All-Russian Legislative Commission convened in 1767 for the purpose of replacing the mid-17th-century Muscovite code of laws with a modern law code. Catherine believed that to strengthen law and institutions was above all else to strengthen the monarchy. \n\nThe Instruction proclaimed the equality of all men before the law and disapproved of the death penalty and torture, thus anticipating some of the issues raised by the later United States Constitution and the Polish Constitution. Although the ideas of absolutism were emphatically upheld, the stance towards serfdom is more blurry: the chapter about peasants was retouched a number of times, as Catherine's views on the subject evolved.\n\nCatherine worked on the Instruction for two years. In 1766, she showed the manuscript to her closest advisors, Nikita Panin and Grigory Orlov, asking them to make changes as they thought necessary. In its final version, the Instruction consists of 22 chapters and 655 articles, which embrace various spheres of state, criminal, and civil law and procedure. More than 400 articles are copied verbatim from the works of Montesquieu, Beccaria, and other contemporary thinkers.\n\nIn 1767, Catherine sent the German edition to Frederick II of Prussia and the French one to Voltaire. She wrote to one of her correspondents that \n\nThe extant manuscript of the Instruction was written by Catherine in French. There is also a Russian translation by herself. On 10 August 1767 the Russian and German editions were printed in Moscow. The Latin and French editions followed in 1770. In 1769 Duc de Choiseul had the Instruction officially prohibited in France as a \"libertarian book\". \n\nThe Instruction generated much discussion among Russian intellectuals and exerted considerable influence on the course of the Russian Enlightenment. It was in this document that the basic tenets of the French Enlightenment were articulated in Russian for the first time. Catherine's work had little practical value however: the Legislative Commission failed to outline the new code of laws and the Instruction never circulated in Russia outside Moscow and St. Petersburg. \n\nDenis Diderot, who visited Russia in 1774, penned an extensive critique of the Nakaz — \"Observations sur le Nakaz\" — which opens with a famous contention: \"There is no true sovereign except the nation; there can be no true legislator except the people\".\n\nCatherine’s Instruction to the Legislative Commission gave an in-depth description of the state of the nation at the time it was written (1764). Eighteen months in the making, the Nakaz was written with the intention of providing an unambiguous description of the existing laws. Though Catherine based her writing heavily on the Enlightenment of Western Europe, she merely utilized some of the broader ideas of the movement, such as equality under the law, to strengthen autocracy. Montesquieu, whose works heavily influenced Catherine, wrote of such things as a divided government (where the power is split between the executive and legislative bodies) and a monarchy made up of three estates. Catherine tactfully ignored these ideas in favor of an absolutist bureaucratic monarchy.\n\n The Instruction is composed of a total of 22 chapters, 655 clauses, an introduction and a conclusion. The first three chapters discuss the current state of the Russian Empire. Chapters 4-10 discuss the existing code of laws as well as Catherine’s opinion of them. The rest of the chapters excluding the last two discuss the people of Russia as a whole. Chapters 21 and 22, the supplementary chapters, come after the conclusion and analyze the organization of the police and the state’s management of money, respectively.\n\n Catherine begins her Instruction by stating that the nature of an empire is to move forward and constantly be progressing. She goes on to say that the Christian duty of every worthwhile subject is to aid the nation with whatever skill they possess. The first three chapters of the Nakaz describe the state of the country.\n\n A large portion of the rest of the Nakaz looks at law, more specifically, parts of the law such as crime, punishment, and trial. In this section Catherine also talks about equal treatment under the law, the nature of law, and what liberty means in an autocratic state. Though she does not explore the issue of serfdom very deeply, many of her more in-depth thoughts were expressed in previous drafts of her Instruction that were edited out.\n\nThe final section of the body of the Nakaz is devoted to statistics and theories about the people of Russia. Catherine takes another look at serfdom and the ethics of the practice. Other areas she covers are marriage, taxes, trade and manufacture, education, the nobility, the middle class, the role of towns in the Russian infrastructure, and the practice of inheritance and will making. Catherine concludes her instruction by stating that this work takes careful reading and that everyone should take the time to try to understand it. She wanted it to be read every month at the assembly of the Legislative Commission until a new code of laws had been finished. She also wrote that she knew her Instruction could not be perfect so she permitted the Legislative Commission to request changes to the document.\n\n"}
{"id": "48491499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48491499", "title": "Peter A. Clayton", "text": "Peter A. Clayton\n\nPeter A. Clayton is a British archaeologist and numismatist, and the former managing editor of British Museum Publications.\n\nClayton has written extensively on the ancient world and ancient Egypt in particular and has produced a number of books for children.\n\nClayton is a member of the British government's Treasure Valuation Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "39887716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39887716", "title": "Philosophy in 90 Minutes series", "text": "Philosophy in 90 Minutes series\n\nThe Philosophy in 90 Minutes series, written by Paul Strathern, is a series of short introductory biographical overviews on well-known philosophers, set in brief historical context, along with brief impressions of their philosophies. The books are also produced in audio format; read by narrator Robert Whitfield. The series’ intent is to \"write about the philosophers' lives, [while] adding in a few of their ideas\"\n\nThe books and audio presentations are considered to be outlines of the given philosopher. Interesting anecdotes about the subject are pervasive, and lines are quoted from published works in \"an epigraphic style\". Each volume contains relevant chronologies, including a chronology of philosophy that is repeated in at least some books. Finally several suggested further reading titles are also included.\n\nSome titles in series are: Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Confucius, Machiavelli, Descartes, John Locke, Hegel, Heidegger, Hume, Kant, Marx, Rousseau, Schopenhauer, Spinoza, and Nietzsche.\n\n"}
{"id": "19391789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19391789", "title": "Pinakes", "text": "Pinakes\n\nThe Pinakes ( \"tables\", plural of ) is a lost bibliographic work composed by Callimachus (310/305–240 BCE) that is popularly considered to be the first library catalog; its contents were based upon the holdings of the Library of Alexandria during Callimachus' tenure there during the third century BCE.\n\nThe Library of Alexandria had been founded by Ptolemy I Soter about 306 BCE. The first recorded librarian was Zenodotus of Ephesus. During Zenodotus' tenure, Callimachus, who was never the head librarian, compiled the \"Pinakes\", thus becoming the first bibliographer and the scholar who organized the library by authors and subjects about 245 BCE. His work was 120 volumes long.\n\nApollonius of Rhodes was the successor to Zenodotus. Eratosthenes of Cyrene succeeded Apollonius in 235 BCE and compiled his \"tetagmenos epi teis megaleis bibliothekeis\", the \"scheme of the great bookshelves.\" In 195 BCE Aristophanes of Byzantium was the librarian and updated the \"Pinakes\", although it is also possible that his work was not a supplement of Callimachus' \"Pinakes\" themselves, but an independent polemic against, or commentary upon, their contents.\n\nThe collection at the Library of Alexandria contained nearly 500,000 papyrus scrolls, which were grouped together by subject matter and stored in bins. Each bin carried a label with painted tablets hung above the stored papyri. \"Pinakes\" was named after these tablets and are a set of index lists. The bins gave bibliographical information for every roll. A typical entry started with a title and also provided the author's name, birthplace, father's name, any teachers trained under, and educational background. It contained a brief biography of the author and a list of the author's publications. The entry had the first line of the work, a summary of its contents, the name of the author, and information about the origin of the roll.\n\nCallimachus' system divided works into six genres and five sections of prose: rhetoric, law, epic, tragedy, comedy, lyric poetry, history, medicine, mathematics, natural science, and miscellanies. Each category was alphabetized by author.\n\nCallimachus composed two other works that were referred as \"pinakes\" and were probably somewhat similar in format to the \"Pinakes\" (of which they \"may or may not be subsections\"), but were concerned with individual topics. These are listed by the \"Suda\" as: \"A Chronological Pinax and Description of Didaskaloi from the Beginning\" and \"Pinax of the Vocabulary and Treatises of Democritus\".\n\nThe term \"pinax\" was used for bibliographic catalogs beyond Callimachus. For example, Ptolemy-el-Garib's catalog of Aristotle's writings comes to us with the title \"Pinax (catalog) of Aristotle's writings\".\n\nThe \"Pinakes\" proved indispensable to librarians for centuries, and they became a model for organizing knowledge throughout the Mediterranean. Their later influence can be traced to medieval times, even to the Arabic counterpart of the tenth century: Ibn al-Nadim's \"Al-Fihrist\" (\"Index\"). Local variations for cataloging and library classification continued throughout the late 1800s, when Anthony Panizzi and Melvil Dewey paved the way for more shared and standardized approaches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50058315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50058315", "title": "Pratyoush Onta", "text": "Pratyoush Onta\n\nPratyoush Onta is a Nepali historian and editor based at Martin Chautari. He is the author and editor/co-editor of several books including \"Social History of Radio Nepal\" (2004, in Nepali), \"Growing up with Radio\" (2005, in Nepali), \"25 Years of Nepali Magazines\" (2013, in Nepali), \"The State of History Education and Research in Nepal\" (2014) and \"Political Change and Public Culture in Post-1990 Nepal\" (2017). He received his BA (economics) in 1988 from Brandeis University and PhD in history from the University of Pennsylvania in 1996. He has written about the media in Nepal in the past and now mostly writes about higher education, research and knowledge distribution. He is a former Chair and current Director of Research, Martin Chautari, Kathmandu, Nepal. He is also the founding editor of the journals \"Studies in Nepali History and Society\" (SINHAS) published since 1996 by Mandala Book Point, Kathmandu and \"Media Adhyayan\" (established 2006; name changed to \"Samaj Adhyayan\" in 2016) published by Martin Chautari. He continues to edit both journals.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "971997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=971997", "title": "Primordial sandwich", "text": "Primordial sandwich\n\nThe concept of the primordial sandwich was proposed by the chemist Günter Wächtershäuser to describe the possible origins of the first cell membranes, and, therefore, the first cell.\n\nAccording to the two main models of abiogenesis, RNA world and iron-sulfur world, prebiotic processes existed \"before\" the development of the cell membrane. The difficulty with this idea, however, is that it is almost impossible to create a complex molecule such as RNA (or even its molecular precursor, pre-RNA) directly from simple organic molecules dissolved in a global ocean (Joyce, 1991), because without some mechanism to concentrate these organic molecules, they would be too dilute to generate the necessary chemical reactions to transform them from simple organic molecules into genuine prebiotic molecules.\n\nTo address this problem, Wächtershäuser proposed that concentration might occur by concentration upon (\"adsorption to\") the surfaces of minerals. With the accumulation of enough amphipathic molecules (such as phospholipids), a bilayer will self-organize, and any molecules caught inside will become the contents of a liposome, and would be concentrated enough to allow chemical reactions to transform organic molecules into prebiotic molecules.\n\nAlthough developed for his own iron-sulfur world model, the idea of the \"primordial sandwich\" has also been adopted by some adherents of the RNA world model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23397345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23397345", "title": "Priory of Sion", "text": "Priory of Sion\n\nThe Prieuré de Sion (), translated as Priory of Sion, is a fringe fraternal organisation, founded and dissolved in France in 1956 by Pierre Plantard as part of a hoax. In the 1960s, Plantard created a fictitious history for that organization, describing it as a secret society founded by Godfrey of Bouillon on Mount Zion in the Kingdom of Jerusalem in 1099, conflating it with a genuine historical monastic order, the Abbey of Our Lady of Mount Zion. In Plantard's version, the Priory was devoted to installing a secret bloodline of the Merovingian dynasty on the thrones of France and the rest of Europe. This myth was expanded upon and popularised by the 1982 pseudohistorical book \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\" and later presented in the preface of the 2003 novel \"The Da Vinci Code\".\n\nAfter becoming a \"cause célèbre\" from the late 1960s to the 1980s, the mythical Priory of Sion was exposed as a ludibrium created by Plantard as a framework for his claim of being the Great Monarch prophesied by Nostradamus. Evidence presented in support of its historical existence and activities before 1956 was discovered to have been forged and then planted in various locations around France by Plantard and his accomplices. Nevertheless, many conspiracy theorists still persist in believing that the Priory of Sion is an age-old cabal that conceals a subversive secret.\n\nThe Priory of Sion myth has been exhaustively debunked by journalists and scholars as one of the greatest hoaxes of the 20th century. Some skeptics have expressed concern that the proliferation and popularity of books, websites and films inspired by this hoax have contributed to the subject of conspiracy theories, pseudohistory and other confusions becoming more mainstream.<ref name=\"Thompson 13/01/2008\">Damian Thompson, a\"for How Da Vinci Code tapped pseudo-fact hunger\", \"Daily Telegraph\". 2008. Retrieved on 28 March 2008.</ref> Others are troubled by the romantic and reactionary ideology unwittingly promoted in these works.\n\nThe fraternal organisation was founded in the town of Annemasse, Haute-Savoie in eastern France in 1956. The 1901 French law of Associations required that the Priory of Sion be registered with the government; although the statutes and the registration documents are dated 7 May 1956, the registration took place at the subprefecture of Saint-Julien-en-Genevois on 25 June 1956 and this was announced in the \"Journal Officiel de la République Française\" on 20 July 1956. \n\nThe Headquarters of the Priory of Sion and its journal \"Circuit\" were based in the apartment of Plantard, in a social housing block known as Sous-Cassan newly constructed in 1956. \n\nThe founders and signatories inscribed with their real names and aliases were Pierre Plantard, also known as \"Chyren\", and André Bonhomme, also known as \"Stanis Bellas\". Bonhomme was the President while Plantard was the Secretary General. The registration documents also included the names of Jean Deleaval as the Vice-President and Armand Defago as the Treasurer. The offices of the Priory of Sion and its journal \"Circuit\" were located at Plantard's apartment. \n\nThe choice of the name \"Sion\" was based on a popular local feature, a hill south of Annemasse in France, known as Mont Sion, where the founders intended to establish a retreat center. The accompanying title to the name was \"Chevalerie d'Institutions et Règles Catholiques d'Union Indépendante et Traditionaliste\": this subtitle forms the acronym CIRCUIT and translates in English as Chivalry of Catholic Rules and Institutions of Independent and Traditionalist Union\".\n\nThe statutes of the Priory of Sion indicate its purpose was to allow and encourage members to engage in studies and mutual aid. The articles of the association expressed the goal of creating a Traditionalist Catholic chivalric order. \n\nArticle 7 of the statutes of the Priory of Sion stated that its members were expected \"to carry out good deeds, to help the Roman Catholic Church, teach the truth, defend the weak and the oppressed\". Towards the end of 1956 the association had planned to forge partnerships with the local Catholic Church of the area which would have involved a school bus service run by both the Priory of Sion and the church of Saint-Joseph in Annemasse. Plantard is described as the President of the Tenants' Association of Annemasse in the issues of \"Circuit\".\n\nThe bulk of the activities of the Priory of Sion, however, bore no resemblance to the objectives as outlined in its statutes: \"Circuit\", the official journal of the Priory of Sion, was indicated as a news bulletin of an \"organisation for the defence of the rights and the freedom of affordable housing\" rather than for the promotion of chivalry-inspired charitable work. The first issue of the journal is dated 27 May 1956, and, in total, twelve issues appeared. Some of the articles took a political position in the local council elections. Others criticised and even attacked real-estate developers of Annemasse.\n\nAccording to a letter written by Léon Guersillon the Mayor of Annemasse in 1956, contained in the folder holding the 1956 Statutes of the Priory of Sion in the subprefecture of Saint-Julien-en-Genevois, Plantard was given a six-month sentence in 1953 for fraud.\n\nThe formally registered association was dissolved some time after October 1956 but intermittently revived for different reasons by Plantard between 1961 and 1993, though in name and on paper only. The Priory of Sion is considered dormant by the subprefecture because it has indicated no activities since 1956. According to French law, subsequent references to the Priory bear no legal relation to that of 1956 and no one, other than the original signatories, is entitled to use its name in an official capacity. \n\nAndré Bonhomme played no part in the association after 1956. He officially resigned in 1973 when he heard that Plantard was linking his name with the association. In light of Plantard's death in 2000, there is no one who is currently alive who has official permission to use the name.\n\nIn 2002, Gino Sandri (former secretary to Pierre Plantard) announced the revival of Priory of Sion.\n\nPlantard set out to have the Priory of Sion perceived as a prestigious esoteric Christian chivalric order, whose members would be people of influence in the fields of finance, politics and philosophy, devoted to installing the \"Great Monarch\", prophesied by Nostradamus, on the throne of France. Plantard's choice of the pseudonym \"Chyren\" was a reference to \"Chyren Selin\", Nostradamus's anagram for the name for this eschatological figure.\n\nBetween 1961 and 1984, Plantard contrived a mythical pedigree for the Priory of Sion claiming that it was the offshoot of a real Roman Catholic religious order housed in the Abbey of Our Lady of Mount Zion, which had been founded in the Kingdom of Jerusalem during the First Crusade in 1099 and later absorbed by the Jesuits in 1617. The mistake is often made that this Abbey of Sion was a Priory of Sion, but there is a difference between an abbey and a priory. Calling his original 1956 group \"Priory of Sion\" presumably gave Plantard the later idea to claim that his organisation had been historically founded by crusading knight Godfrey of Bouillon on Mount Zion near Jerusalem during the Middle Ages.\n\nFurthermore, Plantard was inspired by a 1960 magazine \"Les Cahiers de l'Histoire\" to center his personal genealogical claims, as found in the \"Priory of Sion documents\", on the Merovingian king Dagobert II, who had been assassinated in the 7th century. He also adopted \"Et in Arcadia ego ...\", a slightly altered version of a Latin phrase that most famously appears as the title of two paintings by Nicolas Poussin, as the motto of both his family and the Priory of Sion, because the tomb which appears in these paintings resembled one in the Les Pontils area near Rennes-le-Château. This tomb would become a symbol for his dynastic claims as the last legacy of the Merovingians on the territory of Razès, left to remind the select few who have been initiated into these mysteries that the \"lost king\", Dagobert II, would figuratively come back in the form of a hereditary pretender.\n\nTo give credibility to the fabricated lineage and pedigree, Plantard and his friend, Philippe de Chérisey, needed to create \"independent evidence\". So during the 1960s, they created and deposited a series of false documents, the most famous of which was entitled \"Dossiers Secrets d'Henri Lobineau\" (\"The Secret Files of Henri Lobineau\"), at the Bibliothèque nationale de France in Paris. During the same decade, Plantard commissioned de Chérisey to forge two medieval parchments. These parchments contained encrypted messages that referred to the Priory of Sion. \n\nThey adapted, and used to their advantage, the earlier false claims put forward by Noël Corbu that a Catholic priest named Bérenger Saunière had supposedly discovered ancient parchments inside a pillar while renovating his church in Rennes-le-Château in 1891. Inspired by the popularity of media reports and books in France about the discovery of the Dead Sea scrolls in the West Bank, they hoped this same theme would attract attention to their parchments. \n\nTheir version of the parchments was intended to prove Plantard's claims about the Priory of Sion being a medieval society that was the source of the \"underground stream\" of esotericism in Europe.\n\nPlantard then enlisted the aid of author Gérard de Sède to write a book based on his unpublished manuscript and forged parchments, alleging that Saunière had discovered a link to a hidden treasure. The 1967 book \"L'or de Rennes, ou La vie insolite de Bérenger Saunière, curé de Rennes-le-Château\" (\"The Gold of Rennes, or The Strange Life of Bérenger Saunière, Priest of Rennes-le-Château\"), which was later published in paperback under the title \"Le Trésor Maudit de Rennes-le-Château\" (\"The Accursed Treasure of Rennes-le-Château\") in 1968, became a popular read in France. It included copies of the found parchments (the originals were, of course, never produced), though it did not provide the decoded hidden texts contained within them. One of the Latin texts in the parchments was copied from the \"Novum Testamentum\", an attempted restoration of the Vulgate by John Wordsworth and Henry White. \n\nThe other text was copied from the Codex Bezae. Based on the wording used, the versions of the Latin texts found in the parchments can be shown to have been copied from books first published in 1889 and 1895, which is problematic considering that de Sède's book was trying to make a case that these documents were centuries old.\n\nIn 1969, English actor and science-fiction scriptwriter Henry Lincoln became intrigued after reading \"Le Trésor Maudit\". He discovered one of the encrypted messages, which read \"À Dagobert II Roi et à Sion est ce trésor, et il est là mort\" (\"To Dagobert II, King, and to Sion belongs this treasure and he is there dead\"). This was possibly an allusion to the tomb and shrine of Sigebert IV, a real or mythical son of Dagobert II which would not only prove that the Merovingian dynasty did not end with the death of the king, but that the Priory of Sion has been entrusted with the duty to protect his relics like a treasure. \n\nLincoln expanded on the conspiracy theories, writing his own books on the subject, and inspiring and presenting three BBC Two Chronicle documentaries between 1972 and 1979 about the alleged mysteries of the Rennes-le-Château area. In response to a tip from Gérard de Sède, Lincoln claims he was also the one who discovered the \"Dossiers Secrets\", a series of planted genealogies which appeared to further confirm the link with the extinct Merovingian bloodline. The documents claimed that the Priory of Sion and the Knights Templar were two fronts of one unified organisation with the same leadership until 1188.\n\nLetters in existence dating from the 1960s written by Plantard, de Chérisey and de Sède to each other confirm that the three were engaging in an out-and-out hoax. The letters describe schemes to combat criticisms of their various allegations and ways they would make up new allegations to try to keep the hoax alive. These letters (totalling over 100) are in the possession of French researcher Jean-Luc Chaumeil, who has also retained the original envelopes.\n\nA letter later discovered at the subprefecture of Saint-Julien-en-Genevois also indicated that Plantard had a criminal conviction as a confidence trickster.\n\nAfter reading \"Le Trésor Maudit\", Lincoln persuaded BBC Two to devote three episodes in their \"Chronicle\" documentary series to the topic. These became quite popular and generated thousands of responses. Lincoln then joined forces with Michael Baigent and Richard Leigh for further research. This led them to the pseudohistorical \"Dossiers Secrets\" at the Bibliothèque nationale de France, which though alleging to portray hundreds of years of medieval history, were actually all written by Plantard and de Chérisey under the pseudonym of \"Philippe Toscan du Plantier\".\n\nUnaware that the documents had been forged, Lincoln, Baigent and Leigh used them as a major source for their 1982 controversial non-fiction book \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail,\" in which they presented the following myths as facts to support their hypotheses:\n\nHowever, the authors re-interpreted the \"Dossiers Secrets\" in the light of their own interest in undermining the Roman Catholic Church's institutional reading of Judeo-Christian history. Contrary to Plantard's initial Franco-Israelist claim that the Merovingians were only descended from the Tribe of Benjamin, they asserted that:\n\nThe authors therefore concluded that the modern goals of the Priory of Sion are:\n\nThe authors also incorporated the antisemitic and anti-Masonic tract known as \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" into their story, concluding that it was actually based on the master plan of the Priory of Sion. They presented it as the most persuasive piece of evidence for the existence and activities of the Priory of Sion by arguing that:\n\nIn reaction to this memetic synthesis of investigative journalism with religious conspiracism, many secular conspiracy theorists added the Priory of Sion to their list of secret societies collaborating or competing to manipulate political happenings from behind the scenes in their bid for world domination. Some occultists speculated that the emergence of the Priory of Sion and Plantard closely follows \"The Prophecies by M. Michel Nostradamus\" (unaware that Plantard was intentionally trying to fulfill them). Fringe Christian eschatologists countered that it was a fulfilment of prophecies found in the Book of Revelation and further proof of an anti-Christian conspiracy of epic proportions.\n\nHowever, professional historians and scholars from related fields do not accept \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\" as a serious dissertation.\n\nFrench authors like Franck Marie (1978), Pierre Jarnac (1985), (1988), Jean-Luc Chaumeil (1994), and more recently Marie-France Etchegoin and Frédéric Lenoir (2004), Massimo Introvigne (2005), Jean-Jacques Bedu (2005), and Bernardo Sanchez Da Motta (2005), have never taken Plantard and the Priory of Sion as seriously as Lincoln, Baigent and Leigh. They eventually concluded that it was all a hoax, outlining in detail the reasons for their verdict, and giving detailed evidence that the \"Holy Blood\" authors had not reported comprehensively. They imply that this evidence had been ignored by Lincoln, Baigent, and Leigh to bolster the mythical version of the Priory's history that was developed by Plantard during the early 1960s after meeting author Gérard de Sède.\n\nIn 1986, Lincoln, Baigent and Leigh published \"The Messianic Legacy\", a sequel to \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\". The authors assert that the Priory of Sion is not only \"the\" archetypal cabal but an ideal repository of the cultural legacy of Jewish messianism that could end the “crisis of meaning” within the Western world by providing a Merovingian sacred king as a messianic figure in which the West and, by extension, humanity can place its trust. However, the authors are led to believe by Plantard that he has resigned as Grand Master of the Priory of Sion in 1984 and that the organisation has since gone underground in reaction to both an internal power struggle between Plantard and an “Anglo-American contingent” as well as a campaign of character assassination against Plantard in the press and books written by skeptics.\n\nAlthough Lincoln, Baigent and Leigh remain convinced that the pre-1956 history of the Priory of Sion is true, they confess to the possibility that all of Plantard's claims about a post-1956 Priory of Sion were part of an elaborate hoax to build a cult of personality and cult of intelligence around himself in French esoteric circles.\n\nIn 1989, Plantard tried but failed to salvage his reputation and agenda as a mystagogue in esoteric circles by claiming that the Priory of Sion had actually been founded in 1681 at Rennes-le-Château, and was focused more on harnessing the paranormal power of ley lines and sunrise lines, and a promontory called \"Roc Noir\" (Black Rock) in the area, than installing a Merovingian pretender on the restored throne of France. In 1990, Plantard revised himself by claiming he was only descended from a cadet branch of the line of Dagobert II, while arguing that the direct descendant was really Otto von Habsburg.\n\nIn September 1993, while investigative judge Thierry Jean-Pierre was investigating the activities of multi-millionaire Roger-Patrice Pelat in the context of the Pechiney-Triangle Affair, he was informed that Pelat may have once been Grand Master of an esoteric society known as the Priory of Sion. Pelat's name had been on Plantard's list of Grand Masters since 1989. In fact, Pelat had died in 1989, while he was being indicted for insider trading. Following a long established pattern of using dead people's names, Plantard \"recruited\" the \"initiate\" Pelat soon after his death and included him as the most recent Priory of Sion Grand Master. Plantard had first claimed that Pelat had been a Grand Master in a Priory of Sion pamphlet dated 8 March 1989, then claimed it again later in a 1990 issue of \"Vaincre\", the revived publication of Alpha Galates, a pseudo-chivalric order created by Plantard in Vichy France to support the \"National Revolution\".\n\nPelat had been a friend of François Mitterrand, then President of France, and at the centre of a scandal involving French Prime Minister Pierre Bérégovoy. As an investigative judge, Jean-Pierre could not dismiss any information brought to his attention pertaining to the case, especially if it might have led to a scandal similar to the one implicating an illegal Masonic lodge named Propaganda Due in the 1982 Banco Ambrosiano bank failure in Italy, Jean-Pierre ordered a search of Plantard's home. The search turned up a hoard of false documents, including some proclaiming Plantard the true king of France. Plantard admitted under oath that he had fabricated everything, including Pelat's involvement with the Priory of Sion. Plantard was threatened with legal action by the Pelat family and therefore disappeared to his house in southern France. He was 74 years old at the time. Nothing more was heard of him until he died in Paris on 3 February 2000.\n\nOn 27 December 2002, an open letter announced the revival of the Priory of Sion as an integral traditionalist esoteric society, which stated that: \"The Commanderies of Saint-Denis, Millau, Geneva and Barcelona are fully operative. According to the Tradition, the first Commanderie is under the direction of a woman\", claiming there were 9,841 members. It was signed by Gino Sandri (who claims to be Plantard's former private secretary) under the title of General Secretary, and by \"P. Plantard\" (Le Nautonnier, G. Chyren). Sandri is a well-versed occultist who has spent his life infiltrating esoteric societies only to get expelled from them. After interviewing Sandri, independent researcher Laurent Octonovo Buchholtzer wrote:\n\nAs a result of Dan Brown's best-selling 2003 conspiracy fiction novel \"The Da Vinci Code\" and the subsequent 2006 film, there was a new level of public interest in the Priory of Sion. Brown's novel promotes the mythical version of the Priory but departs from the ultimate conclusions presented in \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\". Rather than plotting to create a Federal Europe ruled by a Merovingian sacred king descended from the historical Jesus, the Priory of Sion initiates its members into a mystery cult seeking to restore the feminist theology necessary for a complete understanding of early Christianity, which was supposedly suppressed by the Roman Catholic Church. The author has presented this speculation as fact in his non-fiction preface, as well as in his public appearances and interviews.\n\nFurthermore, in their 1987 sequel \"The Messianic Legacy\", Lincoln, Baigent and Leigh suggested that there was a current conflict between the Priory of Sion and the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, which they speculated might have originated from an earlier rivalry between the Knights Templar and Knights Hospitaller during the Crusades. However, for the dramatic structure of \"The Da Vinci Code\", Brown chose the controversial Roman Catholic prelature Opus Dei as the Assassini-like nemesis of the Priory of Sion, despite the fact that no author had ever argued that there is a conflict between these two groups.\n\nFurther conspiracy theories were reported in the 2006 non-fiction book \"The Sion Revelation: The Truth About the Guardians of Christ's Sacred Bloodline\" by Lynn Picknett and Clive Prince (authors of the 1997 non-fiction book \"The Templar Revelation\", the principal source for Dan Brown's claims about hidden messages in the work of Leonardo da Vinci). They accepted that the pre-1956 history of the Priory of Sion was a hoax created by Plantard, and that his claim that he was a Merovingian dynast was a lie. However, they insist that this was part of a complex red herring intended to distract the public from the hidden agenda of Plantard and his \"controllers\". They argue that the Priory of Sion was a front organisation for one of the many crypto-political societies which have been plotting to create a \"United States of Europe\" in line with French occultist Alexandre Saint-Yves d'Alveydre's synarchist vision of an ideal form of government.\n\nThe 2008 documentary \"Bloodline\" by 1244 Films and producers Bruce Burgess, a British filmmaker with an interest in paranormal claims and Rene Barnett, a Los Angeles researcher and television and filmmaker, expands on the \"Jesus bloodline\" hypothesis and other elements of \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\". Accepting as valid the testimony of an amateur archaeologist codenamed \"Ben Hammott\" relating to his discoveries made in the vicinity of Rennes-le-Château since 1999; The film speculates that Ben has found the treasure of Bérenger Saunière: a mummified corpse, which Hammott claimed to believe is Mary Magdalene, in an underground tomb purportedly connected to both the Knights Templar and the Priory of Sion. In the film, Burgess interviews several people with alleged connections to the Priory of Sion, including a Gino Sandri and Nicolas Haywood. A book by one of the documentary's researchers, Rob Howells, entitled \"Inside the Priory of Sion: Revelations from the World's Most Secret Society – Guardians of the Bloodline of Jesus\" presented the version of the Priory of Sion as given in the 2008 documentary, which contained several erroneous assertions, such as the claim that Plantard believed in the Jesus bloodline hypothesis. On 21 March 2012, ahead of an impending public outing on the internet, Ben Hammott confessed and apologised on NightVision Radio, a podcast hosted by Bloodline Producer Rene Barnett (using his real name Bill Wilkinson) that everything to do with the tomb and related artifacts was a hoax; revealing that the actual tomb was now destroyed, being part of a full sized set located in a warehouse in England.\n\nThe mythic version of the Priory of Sion first referred to during the 1960s was supposedly led by a \"Nautonnier\", an Old French word for a navigator, which means Grand Master in their internal esoteric nomenclature. The following list of Grand Masters is derived from the \"Dossiers Secrets d'Henri Lobineau\" compiled by Plantard under the \"nom de plume\" of \"Philippe Toscan du Plantier\" in 1967. All those named on this list had died before that date. All but two are also found on lists of alleged “Imperators” (supreme heads) and “distinguished members” of the Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucis which circulated in France at the time when Plantard was in touch with this Rosicrucian Order. Most of those named share the common thread of being known for having an interest in the occult or heresy.\nThe \"Dossiers Secrets\" asserted that the Priory of Sion and the Knights Templar always shared the same Grand Master until a schism occurred during the \"Cutting of the elm\" incident in 1188. Following that event, the Grand Masters of the Priory of Sion are listed in French as being:\n\nA later document, \"Le Cercle d'Ulysse\", identifies François Ducaud-Bourget, a prominent Traditionalist Catholic priest who Plantard had worked for as a sexton during World War II, as the Grand Master following Cocteau's death. Plantard himself is later identified as the next Grand Master.\n\nWhen the \"Dossiers Secrets\" were exposed as a forgery by French researchers, Plantard kept quiet. During his 1989 attempt to make a comeback and revive the Priory of Sion, Plantard sought to distance himself from the discredited first list, and published a second list of Priory Grand Masters, which included the names of the deceased Roger-Patrice Pelat, and his own son Thomas Plantard de Saint-Clair:\n\nIn 1993 Plantard acknowledged that both lists were fraudulent when he was investigated by a judge during the Pelat Affair.\n\nIn 2006, American author Eric Mader-Lin made a public declaration claiming to be the current Grand Master of the Priory of Sion.\n\n\n(IT) LE PRIEURÉ DE SION UNA SCIENZA SOCIALE, book of Domizio CIPRIANI, edited by bastogi libri, 2018, . \n\n"}
{"id": "12749825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12749825", "title": "Pysa", "text": "Pysa\n\nThe Pysa was a Zanzibari coin that was struck in AH1299 (1882) and AH1304 (1887). The obverses of these coins have a pair of scales. The name 'Pysa' is derived from the currency units 'Pice' and 'Paisa'. The AH1299 1 Pysa often turns up in old coin collections, but the AH1304 coin very seldom turns up. The AH1299 coin was struck at the Royal Belgian Mint, Brussels, Belgium while the AH1304 coin was struck at Heaton's Mint, Birmingham, England.\n\nThese coins were commissioned by Sultan Barghash bin Said ibn Sultan who was, apparently and understandably, upset that his name was written incorrectly on the coins as \"Sultan Said ibn Barghash ibn Sultan\". It is accompanied by the expression \"حفظه الله\", \"may Allah save him\". Note that even one of the Arabic characters was incorrectly written: the \"fa\" in \"حفظه\" is written with a dot below (a Maghreb variant) rather than with the dot above as in standard Arabic script.\n\n"}
{"id": "644275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=644275", "title": "Robert Heron (writer)", "text": "Robert Heron (writer)\n\nRobert Heron (6 November 1764 – 13 April 1807) was a Scottish writer.\n\nRobert Heron was son of John Heron, a weaver, and was born in New Galloway, Kirkcudbrightshire, on 6 November 1764. He was taught privately by his mother until his ninth year, when he was sent to the parish school, where he displayed such precocity that at the age of eleven he was employed to teach some of the local farmers' children and at fourteen was appointed master of the parochial school of Kelton. \n\nBy the end of 1780, he had saved sufficient money to enable him, with the help of his parents, to enter the University of Edinburgh with the view of studying for the church. He supported his studies partly by teaching but chiefly by miscellaneous work for booksellers. In autumn 1789, while a divinity student, he visited Robert Burns, who entrusted him with a letter to a Dr. Blacklock, which he failed to deliver. In a rhyming epistle to Blacklock, Burns attributes Heron's faithlessness either to preoccupation with ‘some dainty fair one,’ or to partiality for liquor.\nHeron was for some time assistant to a Dr. Blair, but, according to his own statement, all his ‘ideas, as well of exertion as of enjoyment, soon became literary.’ His first independent literary venture was a small edition in 1789 of Thomson's \"Seasons\", with a criticism on his poetry; a larger edition appeared in 1793. In 1790–1, he announced a course of lectures on the \"Law of Nature, the Law of Nations, the Jewish, the Grecian, the Roman and the Canon Law, and then on the Feudal Law,\" intended as an introduction to the study of law, but the scheme was unsuccessful. \n\nHis imprudent habits overwhelmed him with debt, and he was thrown into prison by his creditors. On their suggestion, he undertook a \"History of Scotland\" for Messrs. Morrison of Perth, who engaged to pay him three guineas per sheet. After making some progress he was liberated from prison on condition of devoting two-thirds of his remuneration to paying 15\"s\". in the pound. The first volume (1794), was nearly all written in gaol. In his preface, he expressed a hope that this would be regarded as some excuse for ‘considerable imperfections.’ The excuse is naive but all Heron's works bear evident marks of superficial knowledge and hurried composition. The \"History\" was completed in six volumes, 1794–9. \n\nIn 1798, at the Theatre Royal, Edinburgh, Heron produced a comedy which was condemned before the second act. Attributing its failure to a conspiracy against him, he published it under the title \"St. Kilda in Edinburgh, or News from Camperdown, a Comic Drama in Two Acts, with a Critical Preface, to which is added an Account of a famous Ass Race\" (1798); the publication attracted no attention. Returning to New Galloway as a ruling elder, Heron served several years in the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland and frequently spoke with fluency and ability. \n\nIn order to obtain more constant literary occupation, he removed in 1799 to London, where he contributed largely to the periodicals, editing the \"Globe,\" the \"British Press,\" and other newspapers, and acting as a parliamentary reporter. In 1806 he commenced a newspaper entitled \"The Fame,\" which proved unsuccessful. Its failure and Heron's improvident habits led to his confinement by his creditors in Newgate prison, where, according to his own statement, he was reduced ‘to the very extremity of bodily and pecuniary distress.’ On 2 February 1807, from Newgate, he wrote a letter to the Royal Literary Fund, recounting his services to literature, and appealing for aid, but the appeal met with no response. Being attacked by fever, Heron was removed to St Pancras Hospital, where he died 13 April 1807. \n\nBesides the works above mentioned, Heron also published: \n\nA manuscript \"Journal of My Conduct\", by Heron, is in the library of the University of Edinburgh (Laing collection). Heron also contributed to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica,\" the \"Edinburgh Magazine,\" and other periodicals; and was employed by Sir John Sinclair in the preparation of the \"Statistical Account of Scotland.\"\n"}
{"id": "45204608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45204608", "title": "Sir Archibald Alison, 1st Baronet", "text": "Sir Archibald Alison, 1st Baronet\n\nSir Archibald Alison, 1st Baronet, (29 December 179223 May 1867) was a Scottish advocate (attorney) and historian. He held several prominent legal appointments. He was the younger son of the Episcopalian cleric and author Archibald Alison. His elder brother was the physician and social reformer William Alison.\n\nHe was born at the parsonage at Kenley, Shropshire, to the Rev. Archibald Alison and his wife Dorothea Gregory, daughter of John Gregory, and granddaughter of James Forbes, 17th Lord Forbes. In 1800 his parents moved the family back to Edinburgh, as his father thought that he could give his sons a better education and more independent careers in Scotland.\n\nAfter studying under a private tutor, and at the University of Edinburgh, he was, in 1814, admitted to the Faculty of Advocates, at which he ultimately attained some distinction, becoming in 1834 Sheriff of Lanarkshire. In 1853, he received a Honorary Doctorate of Civil Law by the University of Oxford.\n\nThe University College London, Legacies of British Slave-ownership, two projects based at UCL tracing the impact of slave-ownership on the formation of modern Britain: (the ESRC-funded Legacies of British Slave-ownership project, now complete, and the ESRC and AHRC-funded Structure and significance of British Caribbean slave-ownership 1763-1833, running from 2013-2015), highlight that, Sir Archibald Alison 1st Bart., benefited from the compensation paid out following the abolition of slavery in 1833. According to the record, he benefited from a payment of £4,081,18s,10d, an approximate £346,000 in 2015, made by the government of United Kingdom and Great Britain as recorded by the Slave Compensation Commission and the records held at the National Archives in London. The record containing the facts discovered can be found at the UCL's \"Legacies of British Slave-ownership\" database, and the National Archive and the records of the Slave Compensation Commission.\n\nWhen travelling in France in 1814 he conceived the idea of his expansive \"History of Europe from the commencement of the French revolution to the restoration of the Bourbons\". This multi-volume set is usually regarded as Alison's chief historical work and is considered to be the first scholarly English-language study of the French Revolution. Published in ten volumes between 1833 and 1843, \"History of Europe\" was revised and reprinted many times throughout the century, including numerous foreign language editions. The work is one of vast industry, \"contain[ing] a wealth of information communicated in a vigorous though wordy style.\"\n\nDisraeli satirises the author in \"Coningsby\" as Mr. Wordy, who wrote a history to prove that Providence was on the side of the Tories. Such criticism notwithstanding, \"History of Europe\" proved to be a huge commercial success. By 1848 100,000 copies had been sold in the United States. It was translated into French, German, and even Arabic, in which language 2,000 copies were published \"under the auspices of the Pasha of Egypt.\" Alison also composed a comprehensive survey of the military campaigns of the Duke of Marlborough, as well as two standard works on the criminal law of Scotland.\n\nHe was elected Lord Rector successively of Marischal College, Aberdeen, and of the University of Glasgow. On 25 June 1852 he was created a baronet, during Lord Derby's administration.\n\nIn 1825, he married Elizabeth Glencairn (1799 - 1874), the daughter of Lieutenant Colonel Patrick Duff Tytler (1760 - 1849); the children from the marriage were Archibald, Frederick and Ella Frances Catherine who married James Charlemagne Dormer. Both sons became distinguished British officers. The 1st Baronet's autobiography was published in 1883; his portrait was painted by Robert Scott Lauder.\n\nAlison died at Possil House, Glasgow, at the age of 74, and was interred in Dean Cemetery, Edinburgh. He enjoyed great popularity in Glasgow. His funeral was attended by a crowd of from 100,000 to 150,000 people. His grave lies amid the \"Lord's Row\" against the western wall, and is modest in comparison to most in this section.\n\nHe was succeeded in the baronetcy by his elder son, Sir Archibald Alison, 2nd Baronet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36611766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36611766", "title": "Skënder Rizaj", "text": "Skënder Rizaj\n\nSkënder Rizaj (Serbian: Скендер Ризај, \"Skender Rizaj\") (born 1930 in Peja, Kingdom of Yugoslavia) is an Albanian scholar and historian. He specialises in the Ottoman period of Balkans history.\n\nRizaj earned his BA in History from Skopje University in 1956 and his doctorate from Sarajevo University in 1965. He is one of the founders of the Department of History of the University of Pristina, where he taught from 1965 until he retired in 1987. He also worked as a Special Consultant for Turkish State Archives in Istanbul from 1989 to 1990. Rizaj is still active in writing and in 2010 was awarded as \"Educator Emeritus\" by the Kosovan government.\n\nHe has done extensive research in Turkish Archives in Istanbul, and the British Library in London. During his studies, he mastered Serbian language, Ottoman Turkish, as well as modern Turkish language and English. He has written extensively on Albanian history, with an emphasis on Kosovo. His research gave him enough scientific material to produce several books, most prominent his 1982 book \"Kosovo during the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries\" in which he emphasizes that Kosovo was dominated by ethnic Albanians during and after the Middle Ages, a claim refuted by modern historiography.\n\nHe also wrote a university textbook \" History of the New Era (1453-1789)\", published in 1985.\n\nRizaj's most notable publications include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48029047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48029047", "title": "Tempore", "text": "Tempore\n\nTempore (abbreviated to temp.), in historical literature, denotes a period during which a person whose exact lifespan is unknown was known to have been alive or active, or some other date which is not exactly known, usually given as the reign of a monarch. The word is Latin, being the ablative singular of the noun \"tempus, temporis\", \"time\", thus meaning \"in the time (of)\". It should be followed by a name in the genitive case. The theoretical full form might be \"vixit tempore Regis Henrici Primi\" (\"he/she lived in the time of King Henry the First\") (i.e. 1100-1135).\n\nThe best known occurrence is in the Domesday Book of 1086, where the phrase \"Tempore Regis Eduardi\" (nominative case \"Rex Eduardus\"), meaning \"in the time of King Edward (the Confessor)\" appears in the entry for almost every manor, abbreviated as TRE. It thus signifies the date range 1042–1066. It is useful in historical literature because the names of many historical persons appear in surviving documents only in royal charters, possibly as witnesses, which can be dated to the reign of the originating monarch.\n\nThe word \"tempore\" is often given in its abbreviated form \"temp.\" It is similar to \"floruit\" (\"flourished\" [at a date or range of dates]) which however is more appropriate for artists to denote not merely a period of life, but a particularly productive period within that lifespan.\n"}
{"id": "31427982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31427982", "title": "The Whitfield Prize", "text": "The Whitfield Prize\n\nThe Whitfield Prize (or Whitfield Book Prize) is a prize of £1000 awarded annually by the Royal Historical Society to the best work on a subject of British or Irish history published within the United Kingdom or Republic of Ireland during the calendar year. To be eligible for the award, the book must be the first history work published by the author.\n\nThe prize was founded in 1976 out of the bequest of Archibald Stenton Whitfield. Originally, the prize was £400; five years later, it was increased to £600. Currently, the prize is £1000.\n\nSource: Royal Historical Society\n"}
{"id": "31428170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31428170", "title": "Tofig Kocharli", "text": "Tofig Kocharli\n\nTofig Gasym oglu Kocharli (; ; February 11, 1929 – October 31, 2007) was a Soviet and Azerbaijani historian, former deputy to Supreme Soviet of Azerbaijan SSR, member of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences, most prominently for his work on the histories of Azerbaijani regions of Karabakh and Nakhchivan.\n\nTofig Kocharli was born on February 11, 1929 in İsalı village of Gadabay Rayon, Azerbaijan SSR. After finishing secondary school, he entered Azerbaijan State University in 1945. While in university, due to good grades, Kocharli skipped his 2nd year right to the 3rd year, and graduated with Bachelor's degree in History in 1950. In 1951-1952, he finished his doctoral studies receiving Ph.D. in History from Moscow State University within a year and a half. At age 36, he was the youngest PhD in Azerbaijan SSR.\nIn 1950-1951, Kocharli worked as a teacher in Quba Pedagogical Institute, in 1952-1953 as the dean in Aghdam Pedagogical Institute, in 1953-1956 as a professor and docent in Ganja Pedagogical University.\n\nFrom 1957 until 1965, he was the senior scientific researcher at Communist Party History Institute under Azerbaijan Central Committee of the Communist Party. In 1965, he was appointed dean of Baku Higher Party School and in June 1972 - its rector. In 1990-1991, he worked as the senior lecturer at the same school. Since 1981, Kocharli was a correspondent member and from 1989, permanent member of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences. In 1993-2001, he served as the scientific researcher of Social Political Research Institute of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan and from 2002 until his death in 2007 he was the senior scientific researcher of the Archeology and Ethnography Institute of the academy. Kocharli has extensively researched issues related to the history of Azerbaijan and published many books, monographs, over 120 scientific articles on the subject. Four of his books were published abroad. Among his contributions is research on Azerbaijan Democratic Republic, Karabakh and Nakhchivan. He served as deputy to Supreme Soviet of Azerbaijan SSR and was a member of Azerbaijan National Council in 1992. He was also a member of Azerbaijan parliamentary commission for investigation of Black January massacre. He has been awarded with Order of the Red Banner of Labour and many other medals and orders of USSR and Azerbaijan.\nIn 2009 a book \"Ruhla söhbət\" (in Russian, translated \"Open Conversation\") was written by Professor Rafig Aliyev about the life and contributions of Tofig Kocharli. Most of the information was from his memoirs and his daughter Irada Kocharli. He left behind 6 children and 12 grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "38470327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38470327", "title": "Trizer D. Mansueto", "text": "Trizer D. Mansueto\n\nTrizer Dale Dajuya Mansueto, is a Filipino historian. He is a graduate of B.A. History and obtained his Master of Arts in History from Silliman University, Dumaguete City, Philippines. An author of several books, he is also involved in museums, translation and teaching. He contributes stories to Cebu Daily News and the Philippine Daily Inquirer (both under the Inquirer Group).\n\nHe helped organize the Carcar City Museum in Carcar City, Cebu and the Cathedral Museum of Cebu, an ecclesiastical museum in 2006. He is also co-author of the books Balaanong Bahandi: Sacred Treasures of the Archdiocese of Cebu and Via Veritatis: The Life and Ministry of Ricardo Cardinal Vidal.\n\nIn the field of translation, he is co-translator in English of Hunger in Nayawak together with Hope Sabanpan-Yu and translator in Cebuano of I See Cebu. His latest translation in Cebuano is a biography, Pedro Calungsod: Patron sa Kabatan-unang Pilipino originally written in English by Fr. Salvador G. Agualada, CMF.\n\nMansueto acted as researcher and was later commissioned to write The History of Danao City of the Cebu Provincial History Project contracted by the Province of Cebu which is still to be released. He lives in Bantayan, Cebu.\n"}
{"id": "22288019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22288019", "title": "Trond Nordby", "text": "Trond Nordby\n\nTrond Nordby (born 6 July 1943) is a Norwegian historian and political scientist.\n\nHe graduated candidatus philologiæ in 1972, and received his PhD in 1984. He worked as a research fellow and lecturer of history at the University of Oslo from 1975 to 1986. From 1985 to 1989 he was a researcher for NAVF, and from 1990 he worked at the Norwegian Institute for Social Research. He is now a professor in the Department of Political Science, University of Oslo, having been promoted in 1995.\n\nHis research has centered on several issues. His background with health history shows in the 1989 biography of Karl Evang and his 1993 book chapter \"Det offentlige helsevesenet - en fagstyrets høyborg\", about the technocracy in health management in Norway. The book \"I politikkens sentrum. Variasjoner i Stortingets makt 1814-2004\" (second edition 2004) focuses on the Norwegian Parliament and Constitution. He has also synthesized social and political history, among others in the book \"Det moderne gjenombruddet i bondesamfunnet. Norge 1870-1920\".\n"}
{"id": "265875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265875", "title": "UK local history terms", "text": "UK local history terms\n\nNote: although these are UK terms, those marked * are also used in the US. For instance there is a 'Shambles' in Chicago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1984831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984831", "title": "Voussoir", "text": "Voussoir\n\nA voussoir is a wedge-shaped element, typically a stone, which is used in building an arch or vault.\n\nAlthough each unit in an arch or vault is a voussoir, two units are of distinct functional importance: the keystone and the springer. The keystone is the centre stone or masonry unit at the apex of an arch. The springer is the lowest voussoir on each side, located where the curve of the arch springs from the vertical support or abutment of the wall or pier.\n\nThe keystone is often decorated or enlarged. An enlarged and sometimes slightly dropped keystone is often found in Mannerist arches of the 16th century, beginning with the works of Giulio Romano, who also began the fashion for using voussoirs above rectangular openings, rather than a lintel (Palazzo Stati Maccarani, Rome, circa 1522).\n\nThe word is a mason's term borrowed in Middle English from French verbs connoting a 'turn' (\"OED\"). Each wedge-shaped voussoir \"turns aside\" the thrust of the mass above, transferring it from stone to stone to the springer's bottom face ('impost'), which is horizontal and passes the thrust on to the supports. Voussoir arches distribute weight efficiently, and take maximum advantage of the compressive strength of stone, as in an arch bridge.\n\nIn Visigothic and Moorish architectural traditions, the voussoirs are often in alternating colours, usually red and white. This is sometimes found in Romanesque architecture also.\n\nDuring the 18th and 19th centuries, British bricklayers became aware that, by thickening the vertical mortar joint between regularly shaped bricks from bottom to top, they could construct an elliptical arch of useful strength over either a standard 'former', or over specially constructed timber falsework (temporary structure to be removed once the construction is complete). The bricks used in such an arch are often referred to as 'voussoirs'.\n\n"}
{"id": "17294825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17294825", "title": "William Wynne (historian)", "text": "William Wynne (historian)\n\nWilliam Wynne (c. 1671 – May 1704) was a Welsh historian.\n\nWynne was the youngest son of Robert Wynne (a canon of Bangor Cathedral and rector of Llanddeiniolen and Llaniestyn) and his wife Catherine Madryn, heiress of Llannerch Fawr. William Wynne's eldest brother was Robert Wynne. William Wynne was born before 12 November 1671 and educated at Jesus College, Oxford (like his father and elder brother). He matriculated in March 1688 and took his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1691. He became a Fellow of the college in 1692, and held this position until his death in 1704. After ordination, he became rector of Llanfachraeth, Anglesey, but appears not to have resided there. Whilst at Oxford, he was part of the circle of Edward Lhuyd, the Welsh naturalist, botanist, linguist, geographer and antiquary. Wynne's publications included a \"History of Wales\" (1697), which was essentially a new version of David Powel's 1584 work \"The Historie of Cambria, now called Wales\". Wynne's version, which was reprinted in 1702 (unchanged), 1774 and 1812 (with changes each time), and in 1832 (with topographical notes), was the starting point in English on medieval Welsh history for nearly two hundred years.\n"}
{"id": "6310732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6310732", "title": "`Alí-Akbar Furútan", "text": "`Alí-Akbar Furútan\n\n`Alí-Akbar Furútan (29 April 1905 – 26 November 2003) was a prominent Iranian Bahá'í educator and author who was given the rank of Hand of the Cause in 1951.\n\nA native of Sabzivár in what was, at the time, Iran's Khurásán, `Alí-Akbar Furútan was still a child when he witnessed the persecution of his family and others for their beliefs. Seeking safety, the family moved in 1914 from Sabzivár to Ashkhabad in Turkestan, which was then a part of the Russian Empire. In 1926, nine years after the Russian Revolution, 21-year-old Furútan won a scholarship to the University of Moscow, where he studied education and child psychology. Within four years, as a result of his Bahá'í activities, he was expelled from the Soviet Union and, in 1930, returned to Iran.\n\nAfter he returned to Iran, he and his wife helped administer the \"Tarbiyat School for Boys\", which was later closed by the Pahlavi government.\n\nLater, `Alí-Akbar Furútan was elected to the National Spiritual Assembly of Iran in 1934, serving as its secretary until 1957. In December 1951, he was appointed a Hand of the Cause of God by Shoghi Effendi. From 1959 to 1963, he served as one of the nine Custodians at the Bahá'í World Centre in Haifa, Israel.\n\nThroughout his life, `Alí-Akbar Furútan taught Bahá'í classes for children and youth, and he published many works in the area of child spiritual and material education.\n\n`Ali-Akbar Furútan died in Haifa five months before his 99th birthday.\n\n\n\n"}
