{"id": "10713145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10713145", "title": "Agostini v. Felton", "text": "Agostini v. Felton\n\nAgostini v. Felton, 521 U.S. 203 (1997), is a landmark decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. In this case, the Court overruled its decision in \"Aguilar v. Felton\" (1985), now finding that it was not a violation of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment for a state-sponsored education initiative to allow public school teachers to instruct at religious schools, so long as the material was secular and neutral in nature and no \"excessive entanglement\" between government and religion was apparent. This case is noteworthy in a broader sense as a sign of evolving judicial standards surrounding the First Amendment, and the changes that have occurred in modern Establishment Clause jurisprudence.\n\nIn 1965, Congress enacted Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act with the goal of providing adequate education to all children in the United States, regardless of individual economic conditions. This service, abbreviated as Title I, distributed federal funds to state governments, which, in turn, disbursed the funds to local education agencies. This funding was to be put towards providing remedial education services for low-income students who were at significant risk of failing to meet state academic performance standards. By law, these education services were to be provided to eligible students, whether enrolled in public school or not. Further, the services offered to children attending private schools were to be \"equitable in comparison\" to the services offered to children attending public school. All educational services were to be of a secular, neutral, and non-ideological nature.\n\nIn 1966, the Board of Education of the City of New York (\"Board\") applied for Title I funding. In the eligible districts in New York City, 10% of schoolchildren attend private school, and of those 10%, 90% attended schools of a particular religious ideology. To prevent First Amendment complications, the Board arranged to bus private school attendees to public schools for after-school instruction. This plan failed, and another one was adopted, which failed as well. The Board then moved on to a plan whereby public school teachers would be permitted to provide instruction in the private school buildings themselves. A number of stipulations were attached to this, aimed at preventing a violation of the Establishment Clause, including mandatory surprise visits by state-employed supervisors and removal of all religious articles from the room to be used for Title I instruction. This plan was reviewed by the Supreme Court in \"Aguilar v. Felton\", where it was deemed to create a constitutionally impermissible \"entanglement\" between government and religion. The District Court, on remand, issued an injunction, enjoining the Board from following a Title I plan that violated the decision.\n\nAfter the Court's decision in Aguilar, the Board had to devise a new plan to provide Title I services without creating a conflict between Church and State. This plan involved spending over $100,000,000 in leasing property and vehicles to provide areas for public school teachers to instruct their students. This money, incurred annually over a series of years, had to be deducted from the Title 1 grant before the grant money was to be used for actual services provided, resulting in a net decrease in available funds for remedial education. In 1995, the Board, along with a group of parents of eligible parochial school attendees, filed motions in District Court, seeking an exemption from the Aguilar decision under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b). This rule states, in part, that an exemption from a final judgment may be granted if it is found that it is, \"no longer equitable that the judgment should have prospective application.\" They argued that cases decided by the Supreme Court between Aguilar and 1995 had eroded the meaning of Aguilar, and that it was no longer good law. The District Court appeared sympathetic, and said that they were pursuing the appropriate method of relief, but denied the motion, noting that Aguilar was still in effect and it was unable to offer the exemption the Board sought. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the denial of the motion. The Supreme Court granted certiorari and heard arguments on April 15, 1997. Chief Corporation Counsel Paul Crotty argued on behalf of New York City, marking the last time that the city's chief attorney has appeared before the nation's highest court.\n\nThe petitioners argument for relief revolved around three primary points.\n\n\nOn June 23, 1997, Justice O'Connor delivered the opinion of the court. The decision was generally divided along ideological lines, with Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices Scalia, Thomas, and Kennedy joining the majority, and Justices Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg and Breyer dissenting.\n\nThe Court accepted the respondents' argument that there was no substantial change in factual circumstances. While there was obviously an increase in Board expenditures in maintaining their program, the Court noted that cost increases were not only predicted in Aguilar, they had been practically guaranteed. Furthermore, since the applicable case law had not changed since the Aguilar decision, there was nothing the Court could see as constituting a substantial change in factual circumstances.\n\nOn the second argument, the Court again sided with the respondents. It noted that, indeed, five of the Justices had advocated a reconsideration of Aguilar when deciding another case. However, the Court said, this did not necessarily mean there had been a change in their jurisprudence or reasoning, because Aguilar's propriety was not in question when those comments were made. The Court stated that the views of its members, outside of a judgment to this effect, did not constitute a change in Establishment Clause law.\n\nThe third argument is given the most examination by the Court. In order to determine if decisions subsequent to Aguilar have actually undermined it or the basis for its findings, the Court examines the cases and the changes in views since that decision was made. The Court notes that it has moved away from the idea that a public employee teaching in a parochial school will necessarily inculcate some of the religious messages inherent in their pervasively sectarian environment. It notes, for example, that in \"Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills School Dist.\" the Court ruled that it was permissible for a deaf student to have a state-sponsored interpreter attend his Catholic high school in the performance of her duties. In this vein, the Court concludes that to consider a public employee's presence in a religious school inappropriate in and of itself would put far too much emphasis on form over substance.\n\nAnother change in the Court's approach was that it no longer considered impermissible the use of government money to directly aid the educational functions of a religious school. As long as the money was given without government stipulations as to how it was spent, it was acceptable for such funding to be made available. Citing \"Witters v. Washington Dept. of Servs. for Blind\", the Court noted that it was not impermissible for the government to give vocational grants, even if the grant would be used to train for some religious job in the future, as long as there was an intervening \"genuinely independent and private\" choice of where the money would be spent. The Court compared this with a government employee receiving his paycheck, noting that it was certainly acceptable for the government to pay this employee even if it were clear he was going to donate a large portion of it to a religious organization.\n\nThe idea of a public employee teaching in a religious school, the Court went on to say, was no longer commonly considered to foster a \"symbolic union\" between Church and State. Noting that the Dissent believed that, in fact, this did foster such a symbolic union, the Court countered by stating that it cannot be shown that such a symbolic union would vanish once the students and teachers were moved off campus. Taking that reasoning to its logical conclusion, it would forbid Title I entirely, as the union would be unavoidable. Further, the Court rejected the idea that Title I would be financing religious indoctrination if instruction could be conducted on religious campuses; Title I specifically notes that it is designed to \"supplement, not supplant\" the school's curriculum.\n\nApplying these rationales to the Board's case, the Court determined that the program, previously found unconstitutional in Aguilar, was neither aiding nor inhibiting religion in an impermissible fashion. Reasoning that the aid was distributed according to secular criteria, and offered to all eligible students regardless of school choice, the system of distributing aid was neutral with respect to religion. The program as enacted by the Board did not give any incentive for anyone to alter their religious views.\n\nThe Court ultimately overruled Aguilar. It noted that, while stare decisis is an important doctrine, the Court is not prohibited by precedent to review changes in law or making alterations to previous decisions. It concluded that prevailing Establishment Clause law had changed significantly since Aguilar was decided, making Aguilar no longer good law. In summarizing its position, the Court notes:\n\nNew York City's Title I program does not run afoul of any of three primary criteria we currently use to evaluate whether government aid has the effect of advancing religion: it does not result in governmental indoctrination; define its recipients by reference to religion; or create an excessive entanglement. We therefore hold that a federally funded program providing supplemental, remedial instruction to disadvantaged children on a neutral basis is not invalid under the Establishment Clause when such instruction is given on the premises of sectarian schools by government employees pursuant to a program containing safeguards such as those present here. The same considerations that justify this holding require us to conclude that this carefully constrained program also cannot reasonably be viewed as an endorsement of religion.\n\nIn closing, the Court reversed the judgment of the Court of Appeals, remanding the case down to them, and giving the lower court instructions to vacate its injunction. Because Aguilar was no longer good law, and the plan constructed by the Board did not create an excessive entanglement with religion, the Court concluded that the Board was entitled to the relief it had sought; moreover, the relief was not simply based on a federal rule, the decision removed the need for the Board to seek the exemption at all.\n\nJustice Souter authored a dissent, in which Justices Stevens, Ginsburg and Breyer joined.\n\nThe dissent was somewhat formalistic in its objections to the majority finding. It stated that the principle of stare decisis was of too great weight to overrule a previous decision so easily, and that the case presented appeared to be more of a re-hearing of Aguilar than a new proceeding. The Dissent cited the Supreme Court's guidelines surrounding rehearings, accusing the Court of veiling its decision as a \"rethinking\" instead of a reversal of Aguilar. The Dissent summarized its own position, remarking:\n\nThat cause lies in the maintenance of integrity in the interpretation of procedural rules, preservation of the responsive, non agenda setting character of this Court, and avoidance of invitations to reconsider old cases based on \"speculat[ions] on chances from changes in [the Court's membership].\n\nIn short, the Dissent felt that the ruling in this case was contrary to the integrity and stability of the Court, and did not comport with the apolitical nature of the judiciary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1570897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1570897", "title": "Agreement concerning the Manufacture of, Internal Trade in and Use of Prepared Opium", "text": "Agreement concerning the Manufacture of, Internal Trade in and Use of Prepared Opium\n\nThe Agreement concerning the Manufacture of, Internal Trade in and Use of Prepared Opium, also known as the Agreement concerning the Suppression of the Manufacture of, Internal Trade in, and Use of, Prepared Opium, was a treaty promulgated in Geneva on 11 February 1925. The treaty was ratified by the State of Vietnam, France, India, Japan, Laos, Netherlands, Thailand, and United Kingdom.\n\nThe Agreement stated that the signatory nations were \"fully determined to bring about the gradual and effective suppression of the manufacture of, internal trade in and use of prepared opium\". Article I required that, with the exception of retail sale, the importation, sale and distribution of opium be a monopoly of government, which would have the exclusive right to import, sell, or distribute opium. Leasing, according, or delegating this right was specifically prohibited. Article II prohibited sale of opium to minors, and Article III prohibited minors from entering smoking divans. Article IV required governments to limit the number of opium retail shops and smoking divans as much as possible. Articles V and VI regulated the export and transport of opium and dross. Article VII required governments to discourage the use of opium through instruction in schools, literature, and other methods.\n\nThe Agreement was superseded by the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.\n"}
{"id": "20361705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20361705", "title": "American Law and Economics Association", "text": "American Law and Economics Association\n\nThe American Law and Economics Association (ALEA), a United States organization founded in 1991, is focused on the advancement of economic understanding of law, and related areas of public policy and regulation. It promotes research in law and economics. The association was co-founded by George Priest, A. Mitchell Polinsky, and Steven Shavell. The growing acceptance of legal and economic perspectives by judges, practitioners, and policy-makers is evident by the creation of parallel associations in Australia, Europe, Latin America, and Canada. The organization's official journal is the \"American Law and Economics Review\", established in 1999.\n\nRobert Cooter is one of the ALEA's founders and served as its president from 1994 to 1995. The current president is Michelle White, from the University of California, San Diego.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52709287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52709287", "title": "Anti-Heroin Act of 1924", "text": "Anti-Heroin Act of 1924\n\nAnti-Heroin Act of 1924 is a United States federal law prohibiting the importation and possession of opium for the chemical synthesis of an addictive narcotic known as diamorphine or heroin. The Act of Congress amended the Smoking Opium Exclusion Act of 1909 which authorized the importation of the poppy plant for medicinal purposes utilizing an opium pipe or vaporization to consume the euphoric opiate.\n\nThe H.R. 7079 legislation was passed by the 68th United States Congressional session and enacted into law by the 30th President of the United States Calvin Coolidge on June 7, 1924.\n\nThe 1924 United States public law was repealed by the enactment of Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act on October 27, 1970.\n\nThe League of Nations and United States began participating in world narcotic conferences in the early 1900s. In 1924, United States House of Representatives passed a resolution for international conferences better known as The Hague Opium Convention.\n\nIn 1926, 69th United States Congress held hearings on a House resolution for the United States participation in the first narcotic education conference to be conducted in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania from July 5 to July 9, 1926.\n\nIn the early 1930s, the World Conference on Narcotic Education meetings were held at the Hotel McAlpin in New York City, New York where the 31st President of the United States Herbert Hoover issued public statements stressing narcotic drugs as a \"fearful menace\" and a \"menace to society\".\n\nAmerican motion pictures were produced promoting awareness about the adverse health effects and social implications of heroin or narcotics use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2307416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307416", "title": "Basoche", "text": "Basoche\n\nThe Basoche was the guild of legal clerks of the Paris court system under the pre-revolutionary French monarchy, from among whom legal representatives (\"procureurs\") were recruited. It was an ancient institution whose roots are unclear. The word itself derives from the Latin \"basilica\", the kind of building in which the legal trade was practiced in the Middle Ages.\n\nIt dated from the time when the profession of \"procureur\" (procurator, advocate or legal representative) was still free in the sense that persons rendering that service to others when so permitted by the law were not yet public and ministerial officers. For this purpose there was established near each important juridical centre a group of clerks, that is to say, of men skilled in law (or reputed to be so), who at first would probably fill indifferently the rôles of representative or advocate. Such was the origin of the Basoche of the parlement of Paris; which naturally formed itself into a gild, like other professions and trades in the Middle Ages.\n\nBut this organization eventually became disintegrated, dividing up into more specialized bodies: that of the advocates, whose history then begins; and that of legal representatives, whose profession was regularized in 1344, and speedily became a saleable charge. The remnant of the original clerks constituted the new Basoche, which thenceforward consisted only of those who worked as clerks for the procureurs, the richer ones among them aspiring themselves to attain the position of procureur. They all, however, retained some traces of their original conditions. \"They are admitted,\" writes an 18th-century author, \"to plead before M. le lieutenant civil \"sur les réferés\" and before M. le juge auditeur; so that the procureurs of these days are but the former clerks of the Basoche, admitted to officiate in important cases in preference to other clerks and to their exclusion.\"\n\nFrom its ancient past the Basoche had also preserved certain picturesque forms and names. It was called the \"kingdom of the \"Basoche\",\" and for a long time its chief, elected each year in general assembly, bore the title of \"king.\" This he had to give up towards the end of the 16th century, by order, it is said, of Henry III, and was thenceforth called the \"chancellor.\" At this time it is said that the order included 6,000 clerks. The Basoche had besides its \"maîtres des requêtes\", a grand court-crier, a referendary, an advocate-general, a \"procureur-général\", a chaplain, etc. In early days, and until the first half of the 16th century, it was organized in companies in a military manner and held periodical reviews or parades (\"montres\"), sometimes taking up arms in the king's service in time of war. Of this there survived later only an annual \"cavalcade\", when the members of the Basoche went to the royal forest of Bondy to cut the maypole, which they afterwards set up in the courtyard of the Palais de Justice, to the sound of tambourines and trumpets. We hear also of satirical and literary entertainments given by clerks of the Palais de Justice, and of the moralities played by them in public, which form an important element in the history of the national theatre; but at the end of the 16th century these performances were restricted to the great hall of the Palais.\n\nTo the last the Basoche retained two principal prerogatives. (1) In order to be recognized as a qualified procureur it was necessary to have gone through one's \"stage\" in the Basoche, to have been entered by name for ten years on its register. It was not sufficient to have been merely clerk to a procureur during the period and to have been registered at his office. This rule was the occasion of frequent conflicts during the 17th and 18th centuries between the members of the Basoche and the procureurs, and on the whole, despite certain decisions favouring the latter, the parlement maintained the rights of the Basoche. Opinion was favourable to it because the \"certificats de complaisance\" issued by the procureurs were dreaded. These certificats held good, moreover, in places where there was no Basoche. (2) The Basoche had judiciary powers recognized by the law. It had disciplinary jurisdiction over its members and decided personal actions in civil law brought by one clerk against another or by an outsider against a clerk. The judgment, at any rate if delivered by a \"maître des requêtes\", was authoritative, and could only be contested by a civil petition before the ancient council of the Basoche.\n\nThe Châtelet of Paris had its special basoche, which claimed to be older even than that of the Palais de Justice, and there was contention between them as to certain rights. The clerks of the procureurs at the \"cour des comptes\" of Paris had their own Basoche of great antiquity, called the \"empire de Galilée.\" The Basoche of the Palais de Justice had in its ancient days the right to create provostships in localities within the jurisdiction of the parlement of Paris, and thus there sprang up a certain number of local basoches. Others were independent in origin; among such being the \"regency\" of Rouen and the Basoche of the Parlement of Toulouse.\n\nIts powers faded over the years and towards the end, it had little genuine authority. It was abolished in the French revolution by the general decree of February 13, 1791. In modern French, \"basoche\" is a pejorative term for the legal trade as a whole.\n\n"}
{"id": "22761231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22761231", "title": "Canonical situation of the Society of Saint Pius X", "text": "Canonical situation of the Society of Saint Pius X\n\nThe canonical situation of the Society of Saint Pius X (SSPX), a group founded in 1970 by Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre, is unresolved. It has been described as \"both complex and fluid.\"\n\nThe Society of Saint Pius X has been the subject of much controversy since 1988, when Bernard Fellay, Bernard Tissier de Mallerais, Richard Williamson and Alfonso de Galarreta were illicitly consecrated at the Ecône, Switzerland, International Seminary of Saint Pius X as bishops in violation of Latin Church canon law. Lefebvre and the four other SSPX bishops individually incurred a disciplinary \"latae sententiae\" excommunication for the schismatic act; the excommunications of the four living SSPX bishops were remitted in 2009.\n\nTalks between the society and the Holy See are at an impasse, and the Holy See considers that the society has broken away from communion with the Catholic Church. Although the Holy See has granted to all priest members of the society the faculty to give sacramental absolution validly to those who attend its churches and has authorised local ordinaries to grant permission for celebrating marriages of followers of the society (see sections on faculties below), the Holy See has declared in a letter to the society dated 26 June 2017 and approved by Pope Francis on 20 May 2017 that full re-establishment of communion is conditional on its members making the 1998 profession of faith, accepting explicitly, with the degree of adhesion due to them, the teachings of the Second Vatican Council and subsequent church teachings, and recognising not only the validity but also the legitimacy of the rite of Mass and the other sacraments celebrated according to the liturgical books promulgated after that council.\n\nThe society, on the other hand, maintains that it was canonically established and has never been canonically suppressed, and that, in \"the present crisis in the Church\", when \"heresy, and even apostasy, is widely spread amongst the clergy\", \"the Church mercifully supplies jurisdiction\" for the good of the faithful.\n\nIn May 1988, Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre and Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith signed a protocol intended to regularize the canonical status of the SSPX. The first part of the protocol was doctrinal in which Lefebvre agreed that the SSPX would:\n\nThe second part of the protocol was juridical which negotiated rights and responsibilities of the SSPX as a group, and conditions of individuals affiliated with the SSPX that included that:\n\nRatzinger and Lefebvre suggested in the protocol that:\n\nThe protocol was to be submitted to John Paul II for his approval. However, Lefebvre quickly developed misgivings and declared his intention to consecrate a bishop as his successor, even without a pontifical mandate.\n\nA meeting took place in Rome on 24 May. It is said that John Paul II promised to Lefebvre that he would appoint an SSPX member as a bishop, chosen according to the normal procedures, and that episcopal ordination would take place on 15 August. In return, Lefebvre would have to request reconciliation with the church on the basis of the protocol of 5 May. Lefebvre presented three requests:\n\nFollowing the 1988 episcopal consecrations without a pontifical mandate, Pope John Paul II declared that the illicit consecrations were a schismatic act which \"impli in practice the rejection of the Roman primacy\" and that all six bishops involved in the ceremony had incurred automatic excommunication under the 1983 Code of Canon Law. John Paul II wrote, in \"Ecclesia Dei\", that \"the root of this schismatic act can be discerned in an incomplete and contradictory notion of Tradition.\" John Paul II reminded \"that formal adherence to the schism is a grave offence against God\" and schism is a delict against religion and the unity of the church with a penalty of excommunication. The individual excommunications of each of the SSPX bishops did not extend to the other SSPX members.\n\nAt the same time, John Paul II set up the Pontifical Commission \"Ecclesia Dei\" (PCED) to help SSPX members and adherents who wished \"to remain united to the Successor of Peter in the Catholic Church while preserving their spiritual and liturgical traditions\" to enter \"full ecclesial communion\". The PCED issued many formal written clarifications about the canonical situation of people involved with the SSPX.\n\nIn 1996, the Pontifical Council for the Interpretation of Legislative Texts (PCILT) responded to an enquiry from Bishop Norbert Brunner, of the Diocese of Sion, Switzerland, that \"in the case of the Lefebvrian deacons and priests there seems no doubt that their ministerial activity in the ambit of the schismatic movement is a more than evident sign of the fact that the two requirements\" for formal adherence to the schism \"have been met\". The PCILT added: \"On the other hand, in the case of the rest of the faithful it is obvious that an occasional participation in liturgical acts or the activity of the Lefebvrian movement, done without making one's own the attitude of doctrinal and disciplinary disunion of such a movement, does not suffice for one to be able to speak of formal adherence to the movement.\" It stated that its judgment was about the existence of the \"sin\" of schism, since for the existence of the \"canonical crime\" of schism, which entails excommunication, the conditions listed in canons 1323–1324 of the Code of Canon Law must also be met. While its reply concerned only one diocese, the PCILT said that, if there was serious general pastoral confusion about the canonical situation of SSPX members, the Holy See could issue a general decree on the matter. The Holy See has not yet done so.\n\nIn 1999, the PCED stated that it was likely, but not certain, that the SSPX members were adhering to a schism, which would mean that they were excommunicated, but that people who, \"because of their attraction to the traditional Latin Mass and not because they refuse submission to the Roman Pontiff or reject communion with the members of the Church subject to him\", attended Mass celebrated by SSPX priests, were not excommunicated, although, the longer they frequented SSPX chapels, the greater the likelihood of imbibing a schismatic mentality that would seem to involve adherence to the schism and so excommunication. The PCED judged that documentation sent to it in 1998 clearly indicated the extent to which \"many in authority in\" the SSPX conform with the formal definition of schism.\n\nIn 1995, PCED explained that it \"morally illicit for the faithful to participate in\" SSPX Masses \"unless they are physically or morally impeded from participating in a Mass celebrated by a Catholic priest in good standing\" and added that not being able to assist at a Tridentine Mass \"is not considered a sufficient motive for attending such Masses.\" The PCED explained that although the ordinations of SSPX priests by SSPX bishops are valid, SSPX priests are prohibited from exercising a priestly function because SSPX priests are not incardinated into local diocese or religious institutes which are in full communion with the Catholic Church. The PCED also explained that the Masses celebrated by SSPX priests are valid but illicit, and that Penance and Matrimony by SSPX priests are invalid because SSPX priests lack conferred faculties.\n\nApart from the formal declarations by the Catholic Church, Cardinal Darío Castrillón Hoyos, president of the PCED, commented about the status of the SSPX in a 2005 interview that the 1988 consecrations, without a pontifical mandate, created a \"situation of separation ... even if it was not a formal schism.\" Castrillón Hoyos commented in 2005, about a 2004 meeting between Pope Benedict XVI and Fellay, that it was said at that meeting that, in Castrillón Hoyos words, \"It cannot be said in correct, exact, and precise terms that there is a schism. ... They are within the Church. There is only the fact that a full, more perfect communion is lacking ... a fuller communion, because communion does exist.\" Castrillón Hoyos commented in 2007, when asked \"Does the Indult support ecumenism, 'ad intra' (internal)?\" Castrillón Hoyos answered that he \"reject the term ecumenism ad intra.\" He explained that the SSPX priests and adherents \"are not schismatics\" since,\nIn 2009, Pope Benedict XVI reaffirmed that: \"Until the doctrinal questions are clarified, the Society has no canonical status in the Church, and its ministers – even though they have been freed of the ecclesiastical penalty – do not legitimately exercise any ministry in the Church.\" The status of the SSPX was not changed by Benedict in 2009. This has to some extent been superseded with regard to the exercise by SSPX ministers of ministry within the Catholic Church, but not as regards the canonical status of the society as viewed by the Holy See.\n\nOn 20 November 2016, Pope Francis personally extended for priests of the society, until further provisions are made, the faculty by which \"those faithful who, for various reasons, attend churches officiated by the priests of the Priestly Fraternity of Saint Pius X, can validly and licitly receive the sacramental absolution of their sins\", a faculty he had already granted for the duration of the 2015–16 Jubilee Year. Confession, along with marriage, requires the granting of the required faculty for validity: \"The valid absolution of sins requires that the minister have, in addition to the power of orders, the faculty of exercising it for the faithful to whom he imparts absolution\" (Code of Canon Law 966.1).\n\nIn a document from the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith, published on 4 April 2017, local ordinaries are authorized to grant SSPX priests faculties to validly assist at marriages. For validity of marriage, marital consent must be declared \"before the local ordinary, pastor, or a priest or deacon delegated by either of them\" (Canon 1108). This priest, deacon or lay person (see can. 1112) is called the one who \"assists\" (is present). The one who assists is necessary in all cases except when one who is described as \"competent to assist\" cannot be found and either of these situations apply: \"danger of death; [or] outside the danger of death provided that it is prudently foreseen that the situation will continue for a month\". In that case, the parties may exchange consent before witnesses alone (Can. 1116.1).\n\nFor any priest, other than the pastor (parish priest) or local ordinary of the parties, to be \"competent to assist\", he must receive the faculty from the parties' pastor or local ordinary. The 2017 letter from the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith specifically grants local ordinaries (not the pastors) permission, in some circumstances, to delegate SSPX priests to assist at the celebration of marriages of faithful who follow the pastoral activity of the society. Insofar as possible, the local ordinary is to delegate a priest of his diocese (or at least \"a fully regular priest\") to receive the consent of the parties during the marriage rite, which is then followed by Mass celebrated perhaps by a priest of the society. If this is not possible and \"if there are no priests in the Diocese able to receive the consent of the parties, the Ordinary may grant the necessary faculties to the priest of the Society who is also to celebrate the Holy Mass\".\n\nIn 1991 Bishop Joseph Ferrario, of the diocese of Honolulu, declared that six adherents of the SSPX movement were excommunicated for, among other things, procuring the services of SSPX Bishop Richard Williamson to illicitly administer confirmation. They sought hierarchical recourse from the Holy See to reverse the decree. The Holy See found in a review of the case that the submitted facts of the case were not formal schismatic acts so the decree lacked foundation under the cited canons and was therefore invalid; Ferrario should have, instead, imposed penalties under canon 1373.\n\nIn 1996, one of the earliest proponents of the Tridentine Mass, Bishop Fabian Bruskewitz, of the diocese of Lincoln, Nebraska, issued a warning that Catholics within the diocese who are members of the SSPX incur excommunication. One of the associations, Call to Action, appealed Bruskewitz's act and the Holy See rejected the appeal.\n\nIn 2014, Bishop Marcello Semeraro, of the diocese of Albano, Italy, issued a warning that Catholics within that diocese would incur excommunication for attending SSPX Masses or receiving sacraments from SSPX priests \"because the society has no canonical status.\"\n\nThe SSPX considers itself faithful to the Catholic Church and to the popes, up to and including Pope Francis. The SSPX bishops do not claim \"ordinary\" jurisdiction over SSPX adherents, which would make the latter subject to them, not to the local diocesan bishops, and would amount to an obvious challenge to the Holy See's authority and an act of schism. Instead the SSPX claims to possess \"extraordinary\" jurisdiction. This is of specific importance in Catholic canon law in relation to the sacraments of confession and marriage.\n\nTo absolve sins validly, a priest must be given the faculty to do so, a faculty that, normally, only the local bishop can give. Similarly, in normal circumstances a marriage can be contracted validly only in the presence of the local bishop or the parish priest or of a priest or deacon delegated by one of these. To overcome this difficulty, the SSPX argues that absolution and marriage under its auspices are valid, because of its interpretation of canon law. For example, canon 144 §1 states, \"In common error, whether of fact or of law, and in positive and probable doubt, whether of law or of fact, the Church supplies executive power of governance for both the external and the internal forum.\" Canon 1335 states, \n\nThe SSPX also argues that if one believes they are outside of the church, This opinion has been argued for a recipient who bound to believe that canon 844 §2 applies, which declares that,\nThe website \"advancedchristianity.com\" published a tract to support the SSPX opinion, the tract claims that in 1989 Cardinal Paul Augustin Mayer confirmed this in a letter that the \"principle of 'common error', whether on the part of only one faithful or on the part of the community, can be applied in this case, and such acts are thereby valid\"\n\nThe Pontifical Commission \"Ecclesia Dei\" explained that the sacraments of Penance and Matrimony are invalid because SSPX priests are not granted faculty to administer those sacraments, but that the principle of common error applies to the sacrament of Penance, so if a recipient is genuinely ignorant that the priest in question lacks the faculty to absolve. Such private letters to individuals do not have the force of law for the faithful in general. However, \"statements of dicasteries and organisms of the Holy See which touch on faith and morals are not considered infallible, but should be taken as norms of moral certitude.\"\nIn a letter dated 23 May 2008, the PCED stated:\nDuring the Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy, which starts in December 2015 and lasts for a year, Pope Francis established that those people who approach SSPX priests to hear their confession during the jubilee \"shall validly and licitly receive the absolution of their sins.\" The Pope also granted all priests \"the discretion to absolve\" from the sin of abortion (which usually must be absolved either by the bishop, or by priests authorized to do so by him – there are usually, but certainly not always, many of those made available). The SSPX priests only have the faculty of being able to absolve sins during that Jubilee Year; outside of that time frame they do not have it, and they are still to be considered by Catholics who follow the Vatican to be suspended from all ministries except absolution.\n\nIn November 2016 in \"Misericordia et misera\", Francis announced that he had \"personally decided to extend this faculty beyond the Jubilee Year, until further provisions are made, lest anyone ever be deprived of the sacramental sign of reconciliation through the Church's pardon.\"\n\nThe SSPX provides, for the faithful who request it, a review of marriage annulment decrees emanated from diocesan tribunals, since in its view many tribunals have been granting them without sufficient grounds to do so; in this manner, the faithful can acquire a greater degree of moral certitude when an annulment is doubtful. Critics have interpreted this service as a usurping of the authority to dispense from marriage impediments and to declare marriage annulments, which belongs to the ordinary jurisdiction of diocesan bishops, and which would be schismatic in kind. This has led some priests to leave the SSPX.\n\nLefebvre died in 1991 as an excommunicated person. In their 2008 petition, the four surviving SSPX bishops \"acknowledged the supreme authority of the Holy Father, and noted that 'the current situation causes us much suffering'.\" In 2009, the Congregation for Bishops remitted the excommunication of the four surviving SSPX bishops. \"By definition, their request carried with it an acknowledgement of the Pope's authority over the Church here on earth.\" Pope Benedict XVI explained that the SSPX has no canonical status in the Catholic Church for doctrinal reasons and that SSPX ministers \"do not legitimately exercise any ministry in the Church.\"\n\nAlthough the 1988 excommunication of the four SSPX bishops was remitted in 2009, the SSPX bishops and priests were still unable to exercise any episcopal or priestly ministry in the Catholic Church.\n\nAccording to canon 1383 of the Code of Canon Law, a suspension \"a divinis\" affects SSPX clergy who have been ordained to the priesthood illegitimately.\n"}
{"id": "592591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592591", "title": "Ceasefire", "text": "Ceasefire\n\nA ceasefire (or truce), also called cease fire, is a temporary stoppage of a war in which each side agrees with the other to suspend aggressive actions. Ceasefires may be declared as part of a formal treaty, but they have also been called as part of an informal understanding between opposing forces. A ceasefire is usually more limited than a broader armistice, which is a formal agreement to end fighting. Successful ceasefires may be followed by armistices, and finally by peace treaties.\n\nDuring World War I, on December 24, 1914, there was an unofficial ceasefire on the Western Front as France, the United Kingdom, and Germany observed Christmas. There are accounts that claimed the unofficial ceasefire took place through the week leading to Christmas and British and German troops exchanged seasonal greetings and songs between their trenches. It was brief but spontaneous, beginning when German soldiers lit Christmas trees, and it quickly spread up and down the Western Front. One account described this development in the following words:It was good to see the human spirit prevailed amongst all sides at the front, the sharing and fraternity. All was well until the higher echelons of command got to hear about the effect of the ceasefire, whereby their wrath ensured a return to hostilities.There was no treaty signed during this Christmas truce and the war resumed after a few days.\nOn November 29, 1952, the newly U.S. president-elect Dwight D. Eisenhower, went to Korea to learn what might end the Korean War. With the United Nations' acceptance of India's proposed Korean War armistice, the Korean People's Army (KPA), the People's Volunteer Army (PVA), and the UN Command ceased fire with the battle line approximately at the 38th parallel. Upon agreeing to the ceasefire agreement, the belligerents established the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), which has since been patrolled by the KPA and the joint ROKA, US, and UN Command. The Korean Demilitarized Zone runs northeast of the 38th parallel; to the south, it travels west. The old Korean capital city of Kaesong, site of the armistice negotiations, originally lay in the pre-war ROK, but now is in the DPRK. The United Nations Command (supported by the United States), the North Korean Korean People's Army, and the Chinese People's Volunteer Army, signed the Armistice Agreement on July 27, 1953, to end the fighting. The Armistice also called upon the governments of South Korea, North Korea, China, and the United States to participate in continued peace talks. For his part, ROK President Syngman Rhee attacked the peace proceedings. The war is considered to have ended at this point, even though there was no peace treaty.\n\nOn January 15, 1973, President Richard Nixon of the USA ordered a ceasefire of the aerial bombings in North Vietnam. The decision came after Dr. Henry Kissinger, the National Security Affairs advisor to the president, returned to Washington from Paris, France with a draft peace proposal. Combat missions continued in South Vietnam. By January 27, 1973, all warring parties in the Vietnam War signed a ceasefire as a prelude to the Paris Peace Accord.\n\nAfter Iraq was driven by U.S.-led coalition forces out of Kuwait during Operation Desert Storm, Iraq and the U.N. Security Council signed a ceasefire agreement on March 3, 1991. Throughout the 1990s, the U.N. Security Council passed 16 Resolutions calling for Iraq to disarm the WMDs program unconditionally and immediately. Because no peace treaty was signed after the Gulf War, the war still remained in effect, such as an assassination attempt of former U.S. President George H. W. Bush by Iraqi agents while on a visit to Kuwait and Iraq was bombed in June 1993 as a response, Iraqi forces firing on coalition aircraft patrolling the Iraqi no-fly zones, U.S. President Bill Clinton's bombing of Baghdad in 1998 during Operation Desert Fox, and an earlier 1996 bombing of Iraq by the U.S. during Operation Desert Strike. The war remained in effect until 2003 when U.S. and United Kingdom forces invaded Iraq and toppled Saddam Hussein's regime from power.\n\nA United Nations-mediated ceasefire was agreed between India and Pakistan on 1 January 1949, ending the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947 (also called the `1947 Kashmir War'). Fighting broke out between the two newly independent countries in Kashmir in October 1947, with India intervening on behalf of the princely ruler of Kashmir who had joined India and the rebels, who were supported by Pakistan. The fighting was limited to Kashmir but, apprehensive that it might develop into a full-scale international war, India referred the matter to the UN Security Council under Article 35 of the UN Charter, which addresses situations `likely to endanger the maintenance of international peace'. The Security Council set up a dedicated United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan, which mediated for an entire year as the fighting continued. After several UN resolutions outlining a procedure for resolving the dispute via a plebiscite, a ceasefire agreement was reached between the countries towards the end of December 1948, which came into effect in the New Year. The Security Council set up a United Nations Military Observer Group for India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) to monitor the ceasefire line. India has declared a ceasefire in Kashmir Valley during Ramadan 2018.\n\nDuring World War I, Turkey, which was an ally of Germany, had its troops stationed both in the Balkan States in the west and at the Russian-Iranian border in the north and east. The Russian army was holding its positions against Turkey in the Caucasus mountains on the north and at the Turkish-Iranian border on the east, but when the Russian army withdrew from the war zone in this area due to Lenin's Revolution, its army stationed in the Caucasus was no longer there to protect the Assyrian and Armenian minorities. The Turkish government, who were angry at the Christians, had been kept under pressure by the Russian Army. In the absence of Russian power in the area, however, the Turkish Army, under the leadership of General Mustafa Kemal Pasha, who later was named Kemal Atatürk, and his close associate Enver Pasha, had some time to reconsolidate their positions on the two eastern borders.\n\nIn the meantime, the Kurdish chieftain Simko Shikak was secretly working with both the Turkish and Iranian governments for the annihilation of the Assyrians. Simko's hope was that by annihilating the Assyrians he would get an autonomous rule for his people, who lived in both Turkey and Iran.\nSimko requested a summit meeting for peace with Shimun XIX Benyamin, who was at the time both top religious leader of the Assyrian Church of the East and political leader of the Assyrians. Shimun accepted Simko's invitation for a peace mission, and took on March 3, 1918, an entourage after approximately 150 well armed men with him, because Simko was known to be untrustworthy.\nAs the carriage carrying Shimun reached Simko headquarters, he was greeted by Simko's guards. As Shimun approached the interior of Simko's inner quarters, the Kurdish leader received him with all honour. The two leaders' discussions were amicable. One of Shimun's men had observed the shadows of some men on the very large roof of the headquarters, not realizing that there were actually several hundred of Simko's armed men hiding on the rooftop and all around the buildings. Simko later escorted Shimun to the gate, kissed his hand, and his horsemen were ready to conduct him on his way. When Shimun and his entourage stepped outside of the yard, Simko's men opened fire, killing the religious leader and about 140 of his men. Of the ten men who escaped, six were wounded.\n\nThe Assyrians, who were now left without both a political and a religious leader, fled their homes and villages while being persecuted by the Turks of the Ottoman empire and the Kurds.\n\nAn example of a ceasefire in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict was announced between Israel and the Palestinian National Authority on February 8, 2005. When announced, chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat publicly defined the ceasefire as follows: \"We have agreed that today President Mahmoud Abbas will declare a full cessation of violence against Israelis anywhere and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon will declare a full cessation of violence and military activities against Palestinians anywhere.\"\n\nThroughout the period of The Troubles, the Provisional IRA and other paramilitary groups have called ceasefires. The most notable of these being the IRA ceasefire which was called on August 31, 1994, and ended on February 9, 1996, with the Docklands bombing. Another ceasefire was declared in July 1997 after negotiations were reopened.\n\nThe IRA traditionally called a Christmas truce.\n\nETA has declared several ceasefires during its long running campaign against the Spanish state. A ceasefire declared in March 2006, was broken on December 30, 2006, when a car bomb exploded in Madrid killing two people. On 5 September 2010 ETA declared a ceasefire.\n\nSeveral attempts have been made to broker ceasefires in the Syrian Civil War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "539380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539380", "title": "Charter 88", "text": "Charter 88\n\nCharter 88 was a British pressure group that advocated constitutional and electoral reform and owes its origins to the lack of a written constitution. It began as a special edition of the \"New Statesman\" magazine in 1988 and it took its name from Charter 77 – the Czechoslovak dissident movement co-founded by Václav Havel. It also has a faint echo of the far more popular mid-19th century Chartist Movement of England that resulted in an unsuccessful campaign for a People's Charter and also Magna Carta or 'Great Charter' of 1215. In November 2007 Charter 88 merged with the New Politics Network to form Unlock Democracy.\n\nCharter 88 was created by 348 mainly Liberal and Social Democratic British intellectuals and activists. They signed a letter to the New Statesman magazine as \"a general expression of dissent\" following the 1987 General Election victory of the Conservative Party, led by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. This was then followed by further advertisements in \"The Guardian\" and \"The Independent\" . Five thousand signatures were published in \"The Observer\" newspaper in January 1989, followed by the establishment of an organisation.\n\nThe organisation was offered space within the offices of the \"New Statesman\" magazine, then based in Shoreditch. For several years it was based in offices in Exmouth Market, Clerkenwell. It later moved to the Institute of Community Studies (now The Young Foundation) in Bethnal Green. Its initial activity resulted in the creation of a Charter which the public was invited to sign and to support with financial contributions. Anthony Barnett was the first Director and Andrew Puddephatt, former General Secretary of Liberty, became the director of Charter 88 in 1995.\n\nCharter 88 was the brainchild of \"New Statesman\" editor Stuart Weir and came into existence as a direct response to Thatcherism in Britain in the 1980s. It closely followed the methodology that had been employed by Charter 77 in Czechoslovakia during 1977. Charter 77 originally appeared as a manifesto published in a West German newspaper that was signed by Czechoslovak citizens representing various occupations, political viewpoints, and religions. The manifesto was reprinted and circulated as a document inviting other signatures and by the mid-1980s it had been signed by 1,200 people.\n\nThe Original Charter of Charter 88 was explicitly concerned with institutional change:\n\nSince 1988, approximately 85,000 people have signed the Charter, over which time the aim of the movement has changed considerably.\n\nAmong its early supporters in the British entertainment industry was singer Billy Bragg. He had earlier given his support to the left-wing Red Wedge British youth political movement. Red Wedge closely allied itself with Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock in his unsuccessful attempt to defeat the Conservative Party. The writer Harold Pinter, composer Simon Rattle, actor John Cleese and actress Emma Thompson were also early supporters. Other signatories from the entertainment world included actor Ray McAnally, who played the left-wing Prime Minister in the TV film \"A Very British Coup\", whilst other famous names included novelists Salman Rushdie, Ian McEwan, Julian Barnes, A.S. Byatt, Margaret Drabble, and Angela Carter.\n\nOther famous signatories included Martin Amis, Melvyn Bragg, Tim Clement-Jones, Judi Dench, Terry Eagleton, Antonia Fraser, Clement Freud, Stuart Hall, and Christopher Hitchens.\n\nSignatory Lord Scarman chaired the launch in the House of Commons of Charter 88's strategy document 'We can Make it Happen in the Next Ten years', and remained a behind the scenes influence.\n\nThe intellectual left provided notable signatories however in the form of Ralph Miliband, Robin Blackburn and feminist Sheila Rowbotham.\n\nIn 1988 Neil Kinnock is alleged to have described Charter 88 as a movement of \"whiners, whingers and wankers\", though he and his wife Glenys Kinnock later signed the charter. Tony Blair acknowledged his agreement with many of the aims and intentions of Charter 88.\n\n\n\nIn June 2003, the chair of the Charter 88 executive and management committee and active contributor Paul Hirst died suddenly. Along with this, the organisation's financial situation and a period of resignations and redundancies, created a crisis situation in late 2003.\nFrom 2004, Charter 88 developed partnerships with two organisations:\n\nOn 8 February 2005, Charter 88 and the New Politics Network launched the Elect the Lords Campaign, which began with an advert in \"The Guardian\" newspaper.\n\nIt worked to get the Armed Forces (Parliamentary Approval for Participation in Armed Conflict) Bill passed through Parliament in cooperation with Clare Short. In 2006, Active Citizens Transform was wound up and subsumed within Charter 88. Local Works, ACT's campaign for the Sustainable Communities Bill continued successfully and the legislation received Royal Assent in October 2007.\n\nMembers of Charter 88 and the New Politics Network were balloted in March 2007 on a proposed merger of the two organisations. The proposal was passed and the new organisation called Unlock Democracy was established in November 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "51460549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51460549", "title": "Commission Directive 91/71/EEC", "text": "Commission Directive 91/71/EEC\n\nThe Commission Directive 91/71/EEC was an EU Directive passed by the European Commission in 1991 regarding the level of sweeteners, flavourings and additives used in foods by states within the European Union and banning foods that did not comply. The directive was repealed in 2011.\n\nThe directive required that all foodstuffs containing colouring, additives or flavouring, within member states in the EU, would have to be identified clearly on the packaging. The directive was an attempt to harmonise the identification of sweeteners and prohibit additives within certain foods. The directive would come into force in 1994, at which time all foods that did not conform would be banned from sale within the EU.\n\nOne particular euromyth about the directive was that it would lead to a ban of prawn cocktail-flavoured crisps in the United Kingdom. The source of the myth was a proposal by EU Commissioner Martin Bangemann to ban artificial sweeteners in crisps, thus leading to news reports that the EU wanted to ban prawn cocktail crisps altogether. As a result, Bangemann was called \"The sour kraut who wants to ban our crisps\" in the British media and journalists followed him in Luxembourg offering him prawn cocktail crisps. \n\nThe potential ban was later proven to be as a result of a mistake on the part of the United Kingdom's civil service, who forgot to include specifically flavoured crisps when compiling a list of the nation's food items that were to be exempt from the directive. When the food industry pointed out this omission, the mistake was rectified. The story was parodied in \"The Thin Blue Line\" sitcom where a French EU Commissioner stated \"You [British] insist on eating prawn cocktail crisps, despite the fact we have told you not to\". It was also cited during the United Kingdom's referendum on the British membership in the European Union campaign in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "212073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212073", "title": "Danegeld", "text": "Danegeld\n\nThe Danegeld (; \"Danish tax\", literally \"Dane tribute\") was a tax raised to pay tribute to the Viking raiders to save a land from being ravaged. It was called the \"geld\" or \"gafol\" in eleventh-century sources. It was characteristic of royal policy in both England and Francia during the ninth through eleventh centuries, collected both as tributary, to buy off the attackers, and as stipendiary, to pay the defensive forces. The term \"Danegeld\" did not appear until the early twelfth century. In Anglo-Saxon England tribute payments to the Danes was known as \"gafol\" and the levy raised to support the standing army, for the defence of the realm, was known as \"heregeld\" (army-tax). Danegeld was mostly taken by the Norsemen from Sweden and Denmark.\n\nIn England, a hide was an area of land sufficient to support one family. It was a measurement of value and was the basis for the land-tax that became known as Danegeld. Initially it was levied as a tribute to buy off the Danes but when the Viking threat diminished it was retained as a permanent land-tax to pay for the realm's defence.\nThe Viking expeditions to England were usually led by the Danish kings, but they were composed of warriors from all over Scandinavia, and they eventually brought home more than 100 tonnes of silver.\nAlthough the term Danegeld is generally held to have been the name of the tribute payments made to the Vikings, prior to the Norman Conquest, the payments were actually referred to as \"gafol\". In 1012 Æthelred the Unready introduced an annual land tax to pay for a force of Scandinavian mercenaries, led by Thorkell the Tall, to defend the realm. Following Æthelred the kings of England used the same tax collection method to fund their own standing armies, this was known as \"heregeld\" (army-tax). Heregeld was abolished by Edward the Confessor in 1051. It was actually the Norman administration who referred to the tax as Danegeld.\n\nAn English payment of 10,000 Roman pounds (3,300 kg) of silver was first made in 991 following the Viking victory at the Battle of Maldon in Essex, when Æthelred was advised by Sigeric the Serious, Archbishop of Canterbury, and the aldermen of the south-western provinces to buy off the Vikings rather than continue the armed struggle. One manuscript of the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" said Olav Tryggvason led the Viking forces.\n\nIn 994 the Danes, under King Sweyn Forkbeard and Olav Tryggvason, returned and laid siege to London. They were once more bought off, and the amount of silver paid impressed the Danes with the idea that it was more profitable to extort payments from the English than to take whatever booty they could plunder.\n\nFurther payments were made in 1002, and in 1007 Æthelred bought two years peace with the Danes for 36,000 troy pounds (13,400 kg) of silver. In 1012, following the capture and murder of the Archbishop of Canterbury, and the sack of Canterbury, the Danes were bought off with another 48,000 troy pounds (17,900 kg) of silver.\n\nIn 1016 Sweyn Forkbeard's son, Canute, became King of England. After two years he felt sufficiently in control of his new kingdom to the extent of being able to pay off all but 40 ships of his invasion fleet, which were retained as a personal bodyguard, with a huge Danegeld of 72,000 troy pounds (26,900 kg) of silver collected nationally, plus a further 10,500 pounds (3,900 kg) of silver collected from London.\nThis kind of extorted tribute was not unique to England: according to Snorri Sturluson and Rimbert, Finland and the Baltic states (see also Grobin, now Grobiņa) paid the same kind of tribute to the Swedes. In fact, the \"Primary Chronicle\" relates that the regions paying protection money extended east towards Moscow, until the Finnish and Slavic tribes rebelled and drove the Varangians overseas. Similarly, the Sami peoples were frequently forced to pay tribute in the form of pelts. A similar procedure also existed in Iberia, where the contemporary Christian states were largely supported on tribute gold from the taifa kingdoms.\n\nIt is estimated that the total amount of money paid by the Anglo-Saxons amounted to some sixty million pence. More Anglo-Saxon pennies of this period have been found in Denmark than in England, and at the farm where the runestone Sö 260 talks of a voyage in the West, a hoard of several hundred English coins was found.\n\nIn southern England the danegeld was based on hidages, an area of agricultural land sufficient to support a family, with the exception of Kent, where the unit was a sulung of four yokes, the amount of land that could be ploughed in a season by a team of oxen; in the north the typical unit was the carucate, or ploughland, equivalent to Kent's sulung, and East Anglia was assessed by the hundred. Everywhere the tax was farmed (collected) by local sheriffs. Records of assessment and income pre-date the Norman conquest, indicating a system which James Campbell describes as \"old, but not unchanging\". According to David Bates, it was \"a national tax of a kind unknown in western Europe;\" indeed, asserts that the national system of land taxation developed to raise the Danegeld was the first to reappear in Western Europe since the collapse of the Western Roman Empire. It was used by William the Conqueror as the principal tool for underwriting continental wars, as well as providing for royal appetites and the costs of conquest, rather than for buying-off the Viking menace. He and his successors levied the geld more frequently than the Anglo-Saxon kings, and at higher rates; the six-shilling geld of 1084 is infamous, and the geld in Ely of 1096, for example, was double its normal rate. Judith Green states that from 1110, war and the White Ship calamity led to further increases in taxation efforts. By 1130 Henry I was taxing the danegeld annually, at two shillings on the hide. That year, according to the chronicle of John of Worcester the king promised to suspend the danegeld for seven years, a promise renewed by Stephen at his coronation but which was afterwards broken. Henry II revived the danegeld in 1155–1156, but 1161–1162 marks the last year the danegeld was recorded on a pipe roll, and the tax fell into disuse.\n\nThe importance of the danegeld to the Exchequer may be assessed by its return of about £2400 in 1129–1130, which was about ten per cent of the total (about £23,000) paid that year.\n\nJudged by an absolute rather than a contemporary standard, there is much to criticise in the collection of the danegeld by the early 12th century: it was based on ancient assessments of land productivity, and there were numerous privileged reductions or exemptions, granted as marks of favour that served to cast those left paying it in an \"unfavoured\" light: \"Exemptions were very much a matter of royal favour, and were adjusted to meet changing circumstances... in this way danegeld was a more flexible instrument of taxation than most historians have been prepared to allow.\" Henry I granted tax liberties to London in 1133, and exempted the city from taxes such as scot, danegeld, and murdrum.\n\nThat a country-wide danegeld was ever collected in the Duchy of Brittany is uncertain. Certainly they were paid off on more than one occasion, and such payouts may have included money (besides other valuables), but the imposition of a tax on the people to pay either a stipend or a tribute is not recorded in the sources, although it is possible that some monies were raised this way. It is more likely that purely local danegeld were raised in times of emergency. In 847 the Breton leader Nominoe was defeated three times by some Danish Vikings before finally opening negotiations with their leaders and enticing them to leave by offering them gifts, as recorded in the contemporary \"Annales Bertiniani\":\n\nThe possibility that the Danes were bought off by methods other than the raising of cash is raised by an incident in 869, recorded in the aforementioned \"Annales\" and by Regino of Prüm. In that year Salomon, King of Brittany, put an end to some pagan raids by payment of five hundred heads of cattle.\n\nThe more local type of danegeld is exemplified by two chronologically close events in the County of Vannes. According to a record in the cartulary of Redon Abbey, the bishop Courantgenus was ransomed from Viking captivity in 854. His ransom was quite probably raised on a local level. In 855 the monks of Redon had to ransom the count, Pascwet, from a similar captivity by handing over a chalice and a paten, weighing together sixty-seven \"solidi\" in gold. Sometime later Pascwet managed to redeem the sacred vessels from the pagans, and this payment too may have been raised as a sort of danegeld. Certainly, according to Regino of Prüm, Pascwet later (in 873) paid a stipendiary danegeld of an undisclosed amount to hire as mercenaries some Vikings with which to harass his opponent for the ducal throne of Brittany, Vurfand, Count of Rennes.\n\nThe most important danegeld raised in East Francia was that used by Charles the Fat to end the Siege of Elsloo and convert the Viking leader Godfrid into a Christian and a Duke of Frisia (882). Local danegeld may have been raised in the Eastern kingdom as needed, such as by one Evesa to ransom her son, Count Eberhard, at a \"very great price\" in 880, according to Regino of Prüm.\n\nThe first danegeld ever raised was collected in Frisia in 810. In that year a Danish fleet of some two hundred vessels landed in Frisia, harassing first all the coastal islands and then the mainland before defeating the Frisians in three battles. The victorious Danes then demanded a large tribute from the conquered. Soon after, a report was sent to Charlemagne, then at Aachen contemplating a campaign against the Danish king, Godfred, stating that the Frisians had already collected through taxation and paid a sum of one hundred pounds of silver. These events are recorded in the \"Annales regni Francorum\" and the \"Vita Karoli Magni\", both works of Charlemagne's court historian, Einhard, and in the separate \"Reichsannalen\" called the \"Annales Mettenses\" and the \"Annales Maximiniani\", as well as the work of the so-called \"Poeta Saxo\". The total sum paid out is unknown, but it was without doubt raised through taxes, as Einhard in his \"Vita\" explicitly says: \"And the victorious Danes imposed a tribute on the vanquished, by means of taxes one hundred pounds of silver from the Frisians is already released\" (\"Danosque victores tributum victis inposuisse, et vectigalis nomine centum libras argenti a Frisionibus iam esse solutas\").\n\nNo further danegeld was collected in Frisia until late in the reign of Louis the Pious (died 840). In 836 some Northmen, having burnt Antwerp and the marketplace at Wintla, agreed to leave on the payment of some tribute, the amount of which the \"Annales Fuldenses\" do not specify. In 837, either because the Frisians were unprepared or defected from their Frankish overlords, some Vikings managed to land on Walcheren, capture several counts and other leading men and kill them or hold them for ransom. They then proceeded to exact a \"census\" wherever they could, funnelling an \"infinite\" amount of money \"of diverse kinds\" into their coffers. They then moved to the mainland, where they assaulted Dorestad and extorted a tribute from the population of the region before leaving. This event is recorded in the \"Annales Fuldenses\", \"Annales Bertiniani\", \"Annales Xantenses\", and the \"Vita Hludowici imperatoris\" of Thegan of Trier. In 846, during the reign of Louis's son Lothair I, the Vikings compelled the Frisians to collect a \"census\" to pay them off. The \"Bertiniani\" and \"Xantenses\" annals record how Lothair, though aware of the outrage, was unable to stop it, and the Vikings left Frisia laden with booty and captives.\n\nThe last recorded danegeld raised by the Frisians was paid in 852. In that year 252 Viking ships laid anchor off the Frisian coast and demanded tribute (of what kind we do not know), which was procured. Their demands met, the Vikings left without devastating the territory, as recorded in the \"Annales Bertiniani\" and the \"Miracula sancti Bavonis\", a life of Saint Bavo. That these various Viking impositions were paid by the taxation of the Frisians is made evident in a record of events in 873. In that year, according to the annals \"Fuldenses\", \"Bertiniani\", and \"Xantenses\", the Viking leader Rodulf sent messengers to the Ostergau calling for tribute. The Frisians replied that they owed taxes only to their king, Louis the German, and his sons (Carloman, Louis, and Charles), and a battle ensued, in which Rodulf was killed and his troops routed. One later, tenth-century source, Dudo of Saint-Quentin's \"De moribus et actis primorum Normanniae ducum\", records that Rollo forced the Frisians to pay tribute, but this is unlikely. All the various Frisian danegeld was purely local in nature, raised by the local leaders and the people without royal aid or approval.\n\nIn Lotharingia the danegeld was only collected once. In 864 Lothair II exacted four \"denarii\" from every \"mansus\" in the kingdom, as well as large number of cattle and much flour, wine, and beer. The whole amount is not recorded, nor whether it was paid as a stipend or as a tribute, but it was paid to a Viking band led by one Rodulf. It has been suggested that Lothair was imitating the example set by Charles the Bald in 860, when he hired the Vikings of Weland to attack those encamped on the island of \"Oscellus\" in the Seine. Neither the reason for Lothair's payment nor the result is recorded in the only source to mention it, the contemporary \"Annales Bertiniani\":\n\nHlotharius, Hlotharii filius, de omni regno suo quattuor denarios ex omni manso colligens, summam denariorum cum multa pensione farinae atque pecorum necnon vini ac sicerae Rodulfo Normanno, Herioldi filio, ac suis locarii nomine tribuit.\nThere is also a story told by Dudo of Saint-Quentin in his \"De moribus et actis primorum Normanniae ducum\" of how Reginar Langhals was ransomed by his wife in 880 for all the gold in Hainault, but this is probably a legend.\n\nThe first payment of the danegeld to the Vikings in West Francia took place in 845 when, under Ragnar Lothbrok, they tried to attack Paris. The Viking army was bought off from destroying the city by a massive payment of nearly six tons of silver and gold bullion. In November 858 a danegeld was being collected, probably to pay off Bjørn (Berno), who had ravaged the Seine and its district for the whole previous year (857).\n\nIn 862 two groups of Vikings—one the larger of two fleets recently forced out of the Seine by Charles the Bald, the other a fleet returning from a Mediterranean expedition—converged on Brittany, where one (the Mediterranean group) was hired by the Breton duke Salomon to ravage the Loire valley. Robert the Strong, Margrave of Neustria, captured twelve of their ships, killing all on board save a few who fled. He then opened negotiations with the former Seine Vikings, and hired them against Salomon for 6,000 pounds of silver. The purpose of this was doubtless to prevent them from entering the service of Salomon. Probably Robert had to collect a large amount in taxes to finance what was effectively a non-tributary Danegeld designed to keep the Vikings out of Neustria. The treaty between the Franks and the Vikings did not last more than a year: in 863 Salomon made peace and the Vikings, deprived of an enemy, ravaged Neustria.\n\nIn Russia during the rule of the Swedish \"Rus\" (from where the name Russia derives), the Slavs had to pay an annual tribute to the Vikings known as the \"dan\" from at least 859 onward. Prince Oleg, who was a relative of Rurik the Viking, after moving to Kiev, imposed a \"dan\" on the people of Novgorod of 300 \"griveni\"/per year \"for the preservation of peace\". The payments to Kiev continued until 1054 with the death of Prince Jaroslav of Kiev. When Prince Oleg made his expedition against Constantinople in 907, he demanded that the Romans \"pay tribute to his men on his 2, 000 ships at the rate of 12 \"griveni\" per man, 40 men reckoned to a ship\". The treaty negotiated between Oleg and the Roman Emperor Leo VI the Wise committed the emperor to pay 1 \"grivna\" to every man on Oleg's ships in exchange for going away. According to the Russian chronicles, the followers of Prince Igor in 945 : \"...said to him \"The servants of Sveiald are adored with weapons and fine raiment, but we are naked. Go forth with us, oh Prince, that you and we may profit thereby\". Igor heeded their words and attacked Dereva in search of tribute (\"dan\"). He demanded the previous tribute and collected by violence from the people with the assistance of his followers...\".\n\nWilliam Shakespeare made reference to Danish tribute in \"Hamlet, Prince of Denmark\", Act 3, scene 1 (King Claudius is talking of Prince Hamlet's insanity):\nDanegeld is the subject of the poem \"Dane-geld\" by Rudyard Kipling, whose most famous lines are \"once you have paid him the Danegeld/ You never get rid of the Dane.\" The poem ends thus:\nKipling's poem was set to music by filk musician Leslie Fish on her 1991 album, \"The Undertaker's Horse\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the term \"Danegeld\" has come to refer to a general warning and a criticism of any coercive payment, whether in money or kind. For example, as mentioned in the British House of Commons during the debate on the Belfast Agreement:\nTo emphasise the point, people often quote Kipling's poem \"Dane-Geld\", especially its two most famous lines. For example, journalist Tony Parsons quoted the poem in \"The Daily Mirror\", when criticising the Rome daily \"La Repubblica\" for writing \"Ransom was paid and that is nothing to be ashamed of,\" in response to the announcement that the Italian government paid $1 million for the release of two hostages in Iraq in October 2004.\n\nIn Britain the phrase is often coupled with the experience of Chamberlain's Appeasement of Hitler. On 22 July 1939, two British newspapers, \"The Daily Telegraph\" and the \"News Chronicle\", reported that Robert Hudson of the Department of Overseas Trade had visited the German Embassy in London two days before, to meet the German Ambassador Herbert von Dirksen and Helmuth Wohlthat of the Four Year Plan Organisation, to offer Germany a huge loan worth hundreds of millions of pound sterling in exchange for not attacking Poland. The media reaction to Hudson's proposed loan was overwhelmingly negative with the newspapers calling Hudson's plan \"paying the Danegeld\". Much to Hudson's humiliation, Chamberlain announced in the House of Commons that Hudson was acting on his own, and Britain would not offer Germany any such loan as a solution to the Danzig crisis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5007629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5007629", "title": "Defensive medicine", "text": "Defensive medicine\n\nDefensive medicine, also called defensive medical decision making, refers to the practice of recommending a diagnostic test or medical treatment that is not necessarily the best option for the patient, but an option that mainly serves the function to protect the physician against the patient as potential plaintiff. Defensive medicine is a reaction to the rising costs of malpractice insurance premiums and patients’ biases on suing for missed or delayed diagnosis or treatment but not for being overdiagnosed. U.S. physicians are at highest risk of being sued, and overtreatment is common. The number of lawsuits against physicians in the USA has increased within the last decades and has had a substantial impact on the behavior of physicians and medical practice. Physicians order tests and avoid treating high-risk patients (when they have a choice) to reduce their exposure to lawsuits, or are forced to discontinue practicing because of overly high insurance premiums. This behavior has become known as defensive medicine, \"a deviation from sound medical practice that is indicated primarily by a threat of liability\".\n\nDefensive medicine takes two main forms: assurance behavior and avoidance behavior. Assurance behavior involves the charging of additional, unnecessary services to a) reduce adverse outcomes, b) deter patients from filing medical malpractice claims, or c) preempt any future legal action by documenting that the practitioner is practicing according to the standard of care. Avoidance behavior occurs when providers refuse to participate in high risk procedures or circumstances.\n\nIn 2004, the case of Dr. Daniel Merenstein triggered an intensive debate in scientific journals and media on defensive medicine (e.g.,) Following the guidelines of several well-respected national organizations, Merenstein had explained the pros and cons of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing to a patient, rather than simply ordering the test. He then documented the shared decision not to order the test. Later, the patient was diagnosed with incurable advanced prostate cancer, and Merenstein and his residency were sued for not ordering the test. Although Merenstein was acquitted, his residency was found liable for $1 million.\nEver since this ordeal, he regards his patients as potential plaintiffs: ‘I order more tests now, am more nervous around patients: I am no longer the doctor I should be’.\nRates of Caesarean section have been found to increase by an average of 8% as seen after 2.5 years following a related medical error.\n\nIn a study with 824 US surgeons, obstetricians, and other specialists at high risk of litigation, 93% reported practicing defensive medicine, such as ordering unnecessary CT scans, biopsies, and MRIs, and prescribing more antibiotics than medically indicated.\nIn Switzerland, where litigation is less common, 41% of general practitioners and 43% of internists, reported that they sometimes or often recommend PSA tests for legal reasons.\n\nThe practice of defensive medicine also expresses itself in discrepancies between what treatments doctors recommend to patients, and what they recommend to their own families. In Switzerland, for instance, the rate of hysterectomy in the general population is 16%, whereas among doctors’ wives and female doctors it is only 10%.\n\nDefensive medical decision making has spread to many areas of clinical medicine and is seen as a major factor in the increase in health care costs, estimated at tens of billions of dollars annually in the USA. An analysis of a random sample of 1452 closed malpractice claims from five U.S. liability insurers showed that the average time between injury and resolution was 5 years. Indemnity costs were $376 million, and defense administration cost $73 million, resulting in total costs of $449 million. The system’s overhead costs were exorbitant: 35% of the indemnity payments went to the plaintiffs' attorneys, and together with defense costs, the total costs of litigation amounted to 54% of the compensation paid to plaintiffs.\n\nTheoretical arguments based on utilitarianism conclude that defensive medicine is, on average, harmful to patients. Malpractice suits are often seen as a mechanism to improve the quality of care, but with custom-based liability, they actually impede the translation of evidence into practice, harming patients and decreasing the quality of care. Tort law in many countries and jurisdictions not only discourages but actively penalizes physicians who practice evidence-based medicine.\n\nDefensive decision making do not only occur in health care but also in business and politics. For instance, managers of large international companies report making defensive decisions in one third to half of all cases, on average. That means, these managers pursue options that are second best for their company but protect themselves in case something goes wrong.\n"}
{"id": "581401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581401", "title": "Disability pension", "text": "Disability pension\n\nA disability pension is a form of pension given to those people who are permanently or temporarily unable to work due to a disability. It is distinct from welfare.\n\nAn example of a disability pension is from a private or Public Pension Plan, or the Canada Pension Plan. Another example is Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) in the United States.\n\nGenerally, there is a minimum time of service required to be eligible for the disability retirement benefit. The claimants might be directed to sign a waiver for their medical records to be disclosed and commonly is scheduled for an independent medical evaluation (IME) to confirm they are permanently disabled. The pension is calculated based on years worked, so the disability retiree can retire earlier (since they are unable to work), but receives an equitable pension based on years of service.\n\nAustralian residents of working age who are unable to work for 15 hours a week for the next two years are eligible for the Disability Support Pension. Those intending to claim the DSP need to provide a report from their treating doctor.\n\nBeneficiaries of the Disability Support Pension receive significantly more than those on unemployment benefits; as of 1 January 2009 the basic rate is A$562.10 per fortnight for singles and A$469.50 for each member of a couple.\n\nThe Disability Support Pension, previously known as the Invalid Pension, were first introduced in the state of New South Wales in 1908. The Commonwealth government introduced a nationwide Invalid Pension on December 5, 1910.\nAustralians who are temporarily unable to work due to illness, injury or a short-term disability may be eligible for Sickness Allowance. Sickness Allowance pays less than the DSP; as of 1 January 2009, single recipients were entitled to a basic rate of A$449.30 per fortnight and couples A$405.30 for each person.\n\nLike all Australian social security payments, eligibility for the DSP and the Sickness Allowance is not dependent on individual contributions; rather, benefits are paid out of general Commonwealth government revenue.\n\nIn New Zealand income support exists for people with physical or mental health issues. The two main disability benefits are the Sickness Benefit, and the Invalid's Benefit. A doctor's referral and medical certificate (or equivalent) is needed to claim the benefits. The Invalid's Benefit is for someone who has a severe disability, and/or long term sickness, which is paid slightly more than the Sickness Benefit. In addition, there is the Disability Allowance, to supplement medical costs. If the Disability Allowance does not pay for all medical costs, then Temporary Additional Support is provided, but obtaining it is more difficult. All of these benefits have maximum limits, depending on such things as income (both the individual and their partner) and cash assets. Note that the Sickness Benefit and Invalid's Benefit are for people aged less than 65 but the Disability Allowance is for anyone over 18 years.\n\nThe United Kingdom equivalents are:\n\n\nIn order to cover loss of income from illness and disability, there is also Statutory Sick Pay, and its long term equivalent - Employment and Support Allowance (ESA). The new Universal Credit scheme will include an equivalent element for those with long-term unfitness to work; ESA will consequently be abolished by the roll out of Universal Credit.\n"}
{"id": "22559644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22559644", "title": "Electronic Commerce Protection Act", "text": "Electronic Commerce Protection Act\n\nThe Electronic Commerce Protection Act (ECPA) (the \"Act\") is anti-spam legislation introduced in 2009 by the Government of Canada at the House of Commons.\n\nSpam legislation in Canada was first introduced in 2004 when the \"Anti‐Spam Action Plan for Canada\" was launched. The Government of Canada assembled a group of industry representatives, scholars, and experts to examine the problems created by spam in Canada and how to potentially address them. The first Canadian bill directly addressing spam was Senator Yoine Goldstein’s Bill S‐202. Bill S-202 was introduced in 2008 and sought to prohibit unsolicited commercial messages, requiring explicit consent from the recipient. In 2009, the Minister of Industry, Tony Clement, introduced Bill C‐27 or the \"Electronic Commerce Protection Act\" (ECPA). The ECPA died on the order paper in December 2009, after the bill cleared the House of Commons committee. The ECPA was quickly re‐introduced as the \"Fighting Internet and Wireless Spam Act\", Bill C‐28 (\"FISA\") – a name that more closely reflected the original political message of the Conservative Party of Canada (May 25, 2010).\n\nFinally, December 15, 2010, the Government of Canada passed the \"Fighting the Internet and Wireless Spam Bill\". The coming into force of the ECPA had been delayed for three and a half years because of very intense lobbying efforts by industry groups. The \"Electronic Commerce Protection Act\" (SPAM bill) selectively came into effect on July 1, 2014. Because of ongoing fierce lobbying other parts of the \"Act\" relating to the unsolicited installation of computer programs was delayed until January 15, 2015.\n\nThe government website offers insight and detailed information on both the implementation and the enforcement of spam legislation. According to the Canadian government, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) will be the enforcement agency and issue administrative monetary penalties for violations of the spam legislation. Additionally, the Competition Bureau is supposed to seek \"administrative monetary penalties and criminal sanctions under the Competition Act.\" The Office of the Privacy Commissioner is given \"new powers under an amended \"Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act\"\" (PIPEDA).\n\nThe purpose of the \"Act\" is \"to promote the efficiency and adaptability of the Canadian economy by regulating commercial conduct that discourages the use of electronic means to carry out commercial activities because that conduct:<br>\n\nThe maximum penalty for a violation is \"$1,000,000 in the case of an individual and $10,000,000 in the case of any other person.\" \n\nThe following provisions will come into force with the implementation of the anti-spam laws: Liable persons include but are not limited to employees acting in the scope of their employment. \"An officer, director, agent or mandatory of a corporation that commits a violation is liable for the violation if they directed, authorized, assented to, acquiesced in or participated in the commission of the violation, whether or not the corporation is proceeded against.\"\n\nIntense industrial lobbying efforts against this bill by a number of paid lobbyists from marketing survey companies, real estate agencies, or copyright stakeholders include changes to the bill to counter fears that bill C-28 might interfere with their ability to seek or attract new potential customers or affect the growth of businesses. The bill was challenged by businesses that are built on strong relationships with clients, for example, real estate agents. While the Liberal Party agrees that the ECPA restricts businesses in a number of ways, they support the ECPA because it restricts spam.\n\n"}
{"id": "30642224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30642224", "title": "Engineers Without Borders (Ireland)", "text": "Engineers Without Borders (Ireland)\n\nEngineers Without Borders Ireland is an international development organisation for students and professionals from Ireland who share a common interest in sustainable development through engineering and appropriate technologies.\n\nThe organisation was initially founded in 2007, and partook in a 2-week project in the Sonairte: The National Ecology Centre in Co. Meath, Ireland. After a lull in activities, a small group of engineers began discussions on reviving EWB-Ireland in 2009. These discussions led to the formation of EWB-Ireland's first ever national committee in January 2010. The committee is a small group of committed engineers from numerous disciplines, located throughout the country.\n\nCurrently, EWB-Ireland has branches in University College Dublin and Queens University Belfast.\n\n"}
{"id": "26275686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26275686", "title": "Executive Order 11905", "text": "Executive Order 11905\n\nExecutive Order 11905 is a United States Presidential Executive Order signed on February 18, 1976, by President Gerald R. Ford as an attempt to reform the United States Intelligence Community, improve oversight on foreign intelligence activities, and ban political assassination. Much of this EO would be changed or strengthened by Jimmy Carter's Executive Order 12036 in 1978.\n\nThe Executive Order was created and signed by Gerald Ford after the Church Committee and Pike Committee had divulged secrets about the U.S. Intelligence Community in the 1970s, particularly regarding the Central Intelligence Agency's assassination operations. The committees had been investigating the CIA's activity and EO 11905 was signed in an attempt to ban assassination and reform the intelligence community. \n\nEO 11905 made four major changes to the intelligence community but would not bring overwhelming, effective reform. First, the EO created a new National Security Committee on Foreign Intelligence, to be chaired by the Director of Central Intelligence. Second, the EO replaced the 40 Committee, which was responsible for oversight of covert activities, with the Operations Advisory Group. The Operations Advisory Group would have similar responsibilities and be composed of senior White House, CIA, State Department and Department of Defense representatives. Third, the EO created a part-time Intelligence Oversight Board which was initially chaired by the former ambassador Robert Daniel Murphy. The chair of the Intelligence Oversight Board was to report illegal activity to the Attorney General and improprieties to the President.\n\nLastly, the EO offered the United States' first ban on assassination (political): \"No employee of the United States Government shall engage in, or conspire to engage in, political assassination.\" This ban on assassination would be superseded and strengthened with Executive Order 12036.\n"}
{"id": "53012768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53012768", "title": "Executive Order 13769", "text": "Executive Order 13769\n\nExecutive Order 13769, titled Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States, often referred to as the Muslim ban or the travel ban, was an executive order issued by United States President Donald Trump. Except for the extent to which it was blocked by various courts, it was in effect from 27 January 2017, until 16 March 2017, when it was superseded by Executive Order 13780. Executive Order 13769 lowered the number of refugees to be admitted into the United States in 2017 to 50,000, suspended the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) for 120 days, suspended the entry of Syrian refugees indefinitely, directed some cabinet secretaries to suspend entry of those whose countries do not meet adjudication standards under U.S. immigration law for 90 days, and included exceptions on a case-by-case basis. Homeland Security lists these countries as Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. More than 700 travelers were detained, and up to 60,000 visas were \"provisionally revoked\".\n\nThe signing of the order provoked widespread condemnation and protests and resulted in legal intervention against the enforcement of the order with some calling it a \"Muslim ban\" because Trump had previously called for temporarily banning Muslims from America soon after the 2015 San Bernardino terrorist attack, and because all of the affected countries had a Muslim majority. A nationwide temporary restraining order (TRO) was issued on 3 February 2017 in the case \"Washington v. Trump\", which was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on 9 February 2017. Consequently, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) stopped enforcing portions of the order and the State Department re-validated visas that had been previously revoked. Later, other orders (Executive Order 13780 and Presidential Proclamation 9645) were signed by Trump and superseded order 13769. On June 26, 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the third executive order (Presidential Proclamation 9645) and its accompanying travel ban in a 5-4 decision, with the majority opinion being written by Chief Justice John Roberts.\n\nKey provisions of executive orders 13769 and 13780 cite to paragraph (f) of Title 8 of the United States Code § 1182, which discusses inadmissible aliens. Paragraph (f) states: \nWhenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate. \n\nThe act that underlies this, known as the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (a.k.a. the McCarran–Walter Act), was amended by the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 (a.k.a. the Hart−Celler Act), which included a provision stating \n\nNo person shall receive any preference or priority or be discriminated against in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of the person's race, sex, nationality, place of birth, or place of residence.\n\nThe language in the INA of 1965 is among the reasons District of Maryland Judge Chuang issued a temporary restraining order blocking Section 2(c) of Executive Order 13780.\n\nIn 1986, the Visa Waiver Program was initiated by President Ronald Reagan, allowing alien nationals of select countries to travel to the United States for up to 90 days without a visa, in return for reciprocal treatment of U.S. nationals. By 2016, the program had been extended to 38 countries. In 2015, Congress passed a Consolidated Appropriations Act to fund the government, and Obama signed the bill into law. The Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015, which was previously passed by the House of Representatives as H.R. 158, was incorporated into the Consolidated Appropriations Act as Division O, Title II, Section 203. The Trump administration's executive order relied on H.R. 158, as enacted. The Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act originally affected four countries: Iraq, Syria, and countries on the State Sponsors of Terrorism list (Iran and Sudan). Foreigners who were nationals of those countries, or who had visited those countries since 2011, were required to obtain a visa to enter the United States, even if they were nationals or dual-nationals of the 38 countries participating in the Visa Waiver Program. Libya, Yemen, and Somalia were added later as \"countries of concern\" by Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson during the Obama administration. The executive order refers to these countries as \"countries designated pursuant to Division O, Title II, Section 203 of the 2016 consolidated Appropriations Act\". Prior to this, in 2011, additional background checks were imposed on the nationals of Iraq.\n\nTrump's press secretary Sean Spicer cited these existing restrictions as evidence that the executive order was based on outstanding policies saying that the seven targeted countries were \"put (...) first and foremost\" by the Obama administration. Fact-checkers at PolitiFact.com, \"The New York Times\", and \"The Washington Post\" said the Obama restrictions cannot be compared to this executive order because they were in response to a credible threat and were not a blanket ban on all individuals from those countries, and concluded that the Trump administration's statements about the Obama administration were misleading and false.\n\nDonald Trump became the U.S. president on 20 January 2017. He has long claimed that terrorists are using the U.S. refugee resettlement program to enter the country. As a candidate Trump's \"Contract with the American Voter\" pledged to suspend immigration from \"terror-prone regions\". Trump-administration officials then described the executive order as fulfilling this campaign promise. Speaking of Trump's agenda as implemented through executive orders and the judicial appointment process, White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon stated: \"If you want to see the Trump agenda it's very simple. It was all in the [campaign] speeches. He's laid out an agenda with those speeches, with the promises he made, and [my and Reince Priebus'] job every day is to just to execute on that. He's maniacally focused on that.\"\n\nDuring his initial election campaign Trump had proposed a temporary, conditional, and \"total and complete\" ban on Muslims entering the United States. His proposal was met by opposition by U.S. politicians including Mike Pence and James Mattis.\n\nOn 12 June, in reference to the Orlando nightclub shooting that occurred on the same date, Trump used Twitter to renew his call for a Muslim immigration ban. On June 13 Trump proposed to suspend immigration from \"areas of the world\" with a history of terrorism, a change from his previous proposal to suspend Muslim immigration to the U.S; the campaign did not announce the details of the plan at the time, but Jeff Sessions, an advisor to Trump campaign on immigration, said the proposal was a statement of purpose to be supplied with details in subsequent months.\n\nOn 15 July, Pence, who as governor of Indiana attempted to suspend settlement of Syrian refugees to the state but was prevented from doing so by the courts, said that decision was based on the fall 2015 FBI assessment that there is risk associated with bringing in refugees. Pence cited the infiltration of Iraqi refugees in Bowling Green Kentucky who were arrested in 2011 for attempting to provide weapons to ISIS and Obama's suspension of the Iraqi refugee program in response as precedent for a U.S. President's \"temporarily suspend[ing] immigration from countries where terrorist influence and impact represents a threat to the United States\".\n\nOn 17 July, Trump (with Pence) participated in an interview on \"60 Minutes\" that sought to clarify whether Trump's position on a Muslim ban had changed; when asked whether he had changed position on the Muslim ban, he said: \"—no, I—Call it whatever you want. We'll call it territories, OK?\" Trump's response would later be interpreted by Judge Brinkema of the Eastern District of Virginia as acknowledging \"the conceptual link between a Muslim ban and the [Executive Order]\" in her ruling finding the executive order likely violates the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nIn a speech on 4 August to a Maine audience Trump called for stopping the practice of admitting refugees from among the most dangerous places in the world; Trump specifically opposed Somali immigration to Minnesota and Maine, describing the Somali refugee program, which has resettled tens of thousands of refugees in the U.S., as creating \"a rich pool of potential recruiting targets for Islamic terror groups\". In Minnesota 10 men of Somali or Oromo family backgrounds were charged with conspiring to travel to the Middle East to join ISIS and 20 young men traveled to Somalia to join a terror group in 2007. Trump went on to list alleged terrorist plots by immigrants from Somalia, Yemen, Iraq, and Syria, along with incidents of alleged terrorism plots or acts by immigrants from countries not among the seven specified by the eventual executive order such as Pakistan, Afghanistan, the Philippines, Uzbekistan, and Morocco.\n\nIn a speech on 15 August Trump listed terrorism attacks in the United States (9/11; the 2009 Fort Hood shooting; the Boston Marathon bombing; the shootings in Chattanooga, Tennessee; and the Orlando nightclub shooting) as justification for his proposals for increased ideological testing and a temporary ban on immigration from countries with a history of terrorism; on this point, the \"Los Angeles Times\" analysis observed Trump \"failed to mention that a number of the attackers were U.S. citizens, or had come to the U.S. as children\". (The same analysis also acknowledged an act of Congress eventually cited to in the executive order was probably what Trump would attempt to use in implementing such proposals. No deaths in the U.S. had been caused by extremists with family backgrounds in any of the seven countries implicated by the executive order as of the day before it was signed.) In the speech, Trump vowed to task the departments of State and Homeland Security to identify regions hostile to the United States such that the additional screening was justified to identify those who pose a threat.\n\nIn a speech on 31 August Trump vowed to \"suspend the issuance of visas\" to \"places like Syria and Libya\". On 4 September Vice Presidential candidate Mike Pence defended the Trump–Pence ticket's plan to suspend immigration from countries or regions of the world with a history of terrorism on \"Meet the Press\". He gave Syria as an example of such a country or region: \"Donald Trump and I believe that we should suspend the Syrian refugee program\" because, Pence said, Syria was a region of the world that was \"imploding into civil war\" and had \"been compromised by terrorism\".\n\nIn late November following the Ohio State attack, President-elect Trump claimed the attacker was a \"Somali refugee who should not have been in\" the U.S. In early December he said the attack showed immigration security is national security when stating goals for his administration. The attacker injured 11 before he was killed by police. The attacker was a Somali-born refugee who spent seven years in Pakistan, the country from which he immigrated to the U.S. with his family on a refugee visa. The attacker was a legal permanent resident living in the U.S. reportedly inspired by but not in direct contact with ISIS. In an interview given for a feature in the Ohio State student newspaper approximately two months before the attack, the eventual attacker expressed fear about Donald Trump's rhetoric toward Muslims and what it might mean for immigrants and refugees.\n\nIn an interview broadcast the day he would sign the order President Trump told the Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN) that Christian refugees would be given priority in terms of refugee status in the United States after saying that Syrian Christians were \"horribly treated\" by his predecessor, Barack Obama. Christians make up very small fractions (0.1% to 1.5%) of the Syrian refugees who have registered with the UN High Commission for Refugees in Syria, Jordan, Iraq, and the Lebanon; those registered represent the pool from which the U.S. selects refugees.\n\nAntónio Guterres, then-UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said in October 2015 that many Syrian Christians have ties to the Christian community in Lebanon and have sought the UN's services in smaller numbers. During 2016 the U.S. had admitted almost as many Christian as Muslim refugees. Pew research also pointed out that over 99% of admitted Syrian refugees were Muslim and less than 1% Christian, despite the demographics of Syria being estimated by Pew to be 93% Muslim and 5% Christian. Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) accused Trump of spreading \"false facts\" and \"alternative facts\".\n\nIn January 2016, the Department of Justice (DOJ), on request of the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration and the National Interest, provided a list of 580 public international terrorism and terrorism-related convictions from 11 September 2001 through the end of 2014. Based on this data and news reports and other open-source information the committee in June determined that at least 380 among the 580 convicted were foreign-born. The publicly released version of Trump's August 15 speech quoted that report. Alex Nowrasteh of the Cato Institute said the list of 580 convictions shared by DOJ was problematic in that \"241 of the 580 convictions (42 percent) were not even for terrorism offences\"; they started with a terrorism tip but ended up with a non-terrorism charge like \"receiving stolen cereal\". The day after Executive Order 13780 was signed, Ohio Congressman Bill Johnson said 60 individuals of the 380 foreign-born individuals or 580 total individuals (16% or 10%, respectively) were from the seven countries implicated by Executive Order 13769, but because Iraq is not among the six countries implicated in Executive Order 13780, Johnson suggested the number may be lower than 60 for countries implicated by that executive order. Nowrasteh notes 40 of the 580 individuals (6.9%) were foreign-born immigrants or non-immigrants convicted of planning, attempting, or carrying out terrorist attacks on U.S. soil (his analysis does not specify whether any, some, or all 40 are from the six or seven countries specified by Executive Orders 13780 or 13769). He contrasts this figure with EO 13780's statement that \"[s]ince 2001, hundreds of persons born abroad have been convicted of terrorism-related crimes in the United States\", which he says requires including planned acts outside the United States\" because \"If the people counted as 'terrorism-related' convictions were really convicted of planning, attempting, or carrying out a terrorist attack on U.S. soil then supporters of Trump's executive order would call them 'terrorism convictions' and exclude the [descriptor] 'related'.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" said that candidate Trump in a speech on June 13, 2016, read from statutory language to justify the President's authority to suspend immigration from areas of the world with a history of terrorism. \"The Washington Post\" identified the referenced statute as 8 U.S.C. 1182(f). This was the statutory subsection eventually cited in sections 3, 5, and 6 of the executive order.\n\nAccording to CNN the executive order was developed primarily by White House officials (which the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported as including \"major architect\" Stephen Miller and Steve Bannon) without input from the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) that is typically a part of the drafting process. This was disputed by White House officials. The OLC usually reviews all executive orders with respect to form and legality before issuance. The White House under previous administrations, including the Obama administration, has bypassed or overruled the OLC on sensitive matters of national security.\n\nTrump aides said that the order had been issued in consultation with Department of Homeland Security and State Department officials. Officials at the State Department and other agencies said it was not. An official from the Trump administration said that parts of the order had been developed in the transition period between Trump's election and his inauguration. CNN reported that Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and Department of Homeland Security leadership saw the details shortly before the order was finalized.\n\nOn January 31 John Kelly told reporters that he \"did know it was under development\" and had seen at least two drafts of the order. (Note: With the final draft, two drafts of the order were public by the time the order was released on January 27. See prior leaked draft of order, which was public on January 25.) James Mattis, for the Department of Defense, did not see a final version of the order until the morning of the day President Trump signed it (the signing occurred shortly after Mattis' swearing-in ceremony for Secretary of Defense in the afternoon) and the White House did not offer Mattis the chance to provide input while the order was drafted. Rex Tillerson, though not yet confirmed as Secretary of State, was involved in cabinet-level discussions about implementation of the order at least as early as 2:00 a.m. Sunday, January 29. According to the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General, the only people at DHS who saw the executive order before it was signed were Kelly and DHS's acting general counsel, who was first shown the order one hour in advance of signing. The DHS Inspector General found that U.S. Customs and Border Protection was not sent a draft of the order and that acting Commissioner Kevin McAleenan received most of his information on the order from congressional staffers.\n\nWhite House cyber security adviser Rudy Giuliani said on Fox News that President Trump came to him for guidance over the order. He said that Trump called him about a \"Muslim ban\" and asked him to form a committee to show him \"the right way to do it legally\". The committee, which included former U.S. Attorney General and Chief Judge of the Southern District of New York Michael Mukasey and Reps. Mike McCaul and Peter T. King, decided to drop the religious basis and instead focus on regions where, as Giuliani put it, there is \"substantial evidence that people are sending terrorists\" to the United States. Nongovernment research does indicate foreign nationals from the affected countries in the travel ban have been arrested and implicated in terrorist plots since 9/11; it also indicates there have been no deaths in the United States caused by extremists with family backgrounds in those affected countries.\n\nThe version of the executive order posted at the White House website differs from the Presidentially approved order published by the Federal Register.\n\nSection 1, describing the purpose of the order, invoked the September 11 attacks, stating that then State Department policy prevented consular officers from properly scrutinizing the visa applications of the attackers. However, none of the September 11 hijackers were from any of the seven banned countries. When announcing his executive action, Trump made similar references to the attacks several times.\n\nThe order excluded countries of origin of radicalized Muslim perpetrators of attacks against the United States, such as Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, United Arab Emirates, Pakistan, Russia and Kyrgyzstan. It also did not include any Muslim countries where The Trump Organization had conducted business, such as the United Arab Emirates and Turkey. Legal scholar David G. Post opined in \"The Washington Post\" that Trump had \"allowed business interests to interfere with his public policy making\", and called for his impeachment.\n\nSection 3 of the order blocks entry of people from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen, for at least 90 days, regardless of whether or not they hold valid non-diplomatic visas. This order affects about 218 million people who are citizens of these countries. After 90 days a list of additional countries—not just those specified by a subparagraph of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA)—must be prepared. The cited portion of the INA refers to aliens who have been present in or are nationals of Iraq, Syria, and other countries designated by the Secretary of State. Citing Section 3(c) of the Executive Order, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Edward J. Ramotowski issued a notice that \"provisionally revoke[s] all valid nonimmigrant and immigrant visas of nationals\" of the designated countries.\n\nThe Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, must conduct a review to determine the information needed from any country to adjudicate any visa, admission, or other benefit under the INA. Within 30 days the Secretary of Homeland Security must list countries that do not provide adequate information. The foreign governments then have 60 days to provide the information on their nationals after which the Secretary of Homeland Security must submit to the President a list of countries recommended for inclusion on a Presidential proclamation that would prohibit the entry of foreign nationals from countries that do not provide the information.\n\nSection 5 suspends the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) for at least 120 days but stipulates that the program can be resumed for citizens of the specified countries if the Secretary of State, Secretary of Homeland Security and the Director of National Intelligence agree to do so. The suspension for Syrian refugees is indefinite. The number of new refugees allowed in 2017 is capped to 50,000 (reduced from 110,000). After the resumption of USRAP refugee applications will be prioritized based on religion-based persecutions only in the case that the religion of the individual is a minority religion in that country.\n\nThe order said that the Secretaries of State and Homeland Security may, on a case-by-case basis and when in the national interest, issue visas or other immigration benefits to nationals of countries for which visas and benefits are otherwise blocked. Section 7 calls for an expedited completion and implementation of a biometric entry/exit tracking system for all travelers coming into the United States, without reference to whether they are foreigners or not. (The similar provision in Section 8 of Executive Order 13780 is limited to in-scope travelers, which in 2016 were defined by DHS with respect to biometric entry/exit as all non-U.S. citizens with the ages of 14–79. See Executive Order 13780 at § Effect.) Section 7 orders DHS to follow the recommendation of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, commonly known as the 9/11 Commission, to create and implement the biometric entry/exit system.(\"See\" The 9/11 Commission Report at page 389.)\n\nSecretary of Homeland Security, John Kelly, has stated to Congress that DHS is considering a requirement that refugees and visa applicants reveal social media passwords as part of security screening. The idea was one of many to strengthen border security, as well as requesting financial records. In 2011 the Obama administration released a memo revealing a similar plan to vet social media accounts for visa applicants. John Kelly has stated that the temporary ban is important and that the DHS is developing what \"extreme vetting\" might look like.\n\nThere was some early confusion about the status of green-card holders (i.e., lawful permanent residents). According to the lawsuit filed by the states of Washington and Minnesota, dated February 3, the government had changed its position five times to date. Initially, on the evening of Friday January 27, the Department of Homeland Security sent out a guidance to airlines stated \"lawful permanent residents are not included and may continue to travel to the USA\". CNN reported that it was overruled by the White House overnight. Early Saturday, January 28, the Department of Homeland Security's Acting Press Secretary Gillian Christensen said in an e-mail to Reuters that the order barred green-card holders from the affected countries. By Saturday afternoon White House officials said they would need a case-by-case waiver to return. On Sunday White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said that green-card holders would not be prevented from returning to the United States.\n\nAccording to the Associated Press no green-card holders were ultimately denied entry to the U.S. although several initially spent \"long hours\" in detention. On January 29 the Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly deemed entry of lawful permanent residents into the U.S. to be \"in the national interest\" exempting them from the ban according to the provisions of the executive order. On February 1, White House Counsel Don McGahn issued a memorandum to the heads of the departments of State, Justice, and Homeland Security clarifying that the ban-provisions of the executive order do not apply to lawful permanent residents. Press Secretary Sean Spicer said that green-card holders from affected countries \"no longer need a waiver because, if they are a legal permanent resident, they won't need it anymore\".\n\nThere was similar confusion about whether the order affected dual citizens of a banned country and a non-banned country. The State Department said that the order did not affect U.S. citizens who also hold citizenship of one of the seven banned countries. On January 28 the State Department stated that other travelers with dual nationality of one of these countries—for example, an Iranian who also holds a Canadian passport—would not be permitted to enter. However, the International Air Transport Association told their airlines that dual nationals who hold a passport from a non-banned country would be allowed in.\n\nThe United Kingdom's Foreign and Commonwealth Office issued a press release that the restrictions apply to those traveling from the listed countries not those that merely have their citizenship. The confusion led companies and institutions to take a more cautious approach; for example, Google told its dual-national employees to stay in the United States until more clarity could be provided. On January 31 the State Department updated the restrictions to allow persons holding dual citizenship to enter the US provided they possessed a US visa and entered using a passport from an unrestricted country.\n\nSection 4 orders development of a uniform screening procedure as part of the adjudication process for immigration benefits; components of the screening procedure are suggested but not determined. Section 1 (\"Purpose\") requires screening to identify those who would \"place violent ideologies higher than American law\" or \"oppress Americans of any ... gender or sexual orientation\". The only suggested component of the uniform screening procedure in section 4 that specifically mentions a potential entrant's mindset is \"a mechanism to assess whether or not the applicant has the intent to commit criminal or terrorist acts after entering the United States\". Trump's August 15 speech proposed an ideological test for all immigrants to screen out people who might harbor violent or oppressive attitudes toward women or gays. In response, immigration expert Stephen Yale-Loehr suggested that an ideological test could involve screening immigration applicants' social media pages as part of a routine background check. The Trump administration has formally proposed adding optional collection of social media account information for visa applicants from China affecting approximately 3.6 million people annually. DHS has publicly proposed to ask some entrants for social media passwords and financial records, barring entry to those who do not comply; it regards the information as particularly important for vetting entrants from states such as Somalia and Syria, whose governments have poorer records systems. According to Sophia Cope, a lawyer for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, foreign nationals may be denied entry to the U.S. for refusing to turn over device passwords, and the law is not clear for permanent residents; device passwords may be used to access social media when the user is logged in to the social media account. Part (b) of Section 4 requires the departments of State and Homeland Security, the Director of National Intelligence, and the FBI to present progress reports on the uniform screening procedure to the President, the first of which is due 60 days from the date the order was issued.\n\nA leaked prior draft of the order (published by \"The Washington Post\" before the order went into effect) would have ordered that \"the Secretary of State, in conjunction with the Secretary of Defense, is directed within 90 days of the date of this order to produce a plan to provide safe areas in Syria and in the surrounding region in which Syrian nationals displaced from their homeland can await firm settlement, such as repatriation or potential third-country resettlement.\" This provision was omitted from the final order. Rex Tillerson, Trump's Secretary of State, had not yet taken office at the time the executive order went into effect.\n\nDuring and after his campaign Trump proposed establishing safe zones in Syria as an alternative to Syrian refugees' immigration to the U.S. In the past \"safe zones\" have been interpreted as establishing, among other things, no-fly zones over Syria. During the Obama administration Turkey encouraged the U.S. to establish safe zones; the Obama administration was concerned about the potential for pulling the U.S. into a war with Russia.\n\nIn the first weeks of Trump's presidency Turkey renewed its call for safe zones and proposed a new plan for them, the Trump administration has spoken with several other Sunni Arab States regarding safe zones, and Russia has asked for clarification regarding any Trump administration plan regarding safe zones. The UN High Commissioner on Refugees and Bashar Assad have dismissed safe zones as unworkable.\n\nTrump's stated reason for issuing the executive order was to prevent terrorism. An internal report compiled by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Intelligence and Analysis Unit, however, concluded that people from the seven nations affected by the travel ban pose no increased terror risk. The report found that \"country of citizenship is unlikely to be a reliable indicator of potential terrorist activity\" and that few individuals from the seven affected countries access the U.S. in any case, since the State Department grants a small number of visas to citizens of those countries.\" The report found that of 82 people determined to have inspired by a foreign terrorist organization \"to carry out or try to carry out an attack in the United States, just over half were U.S. citizens born in the United States,\" while the rest came from a group of 26 countries, only two of which were among the seven nations included in the ban. White House and DHS officials downplayed the significance of the report, saying it was only a draft.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported that \"for an action aimed at terrorism, the order appeared to garner little or no support among experts and former officials of every political stripe with experience in the field.\" Experts on terrorism, such as Charles Kurzman of the University of North Carolina, Brian Michael Jenkins of the RAND Corporation, and Daniel Benjamin of Dartmouth College, formerly the State Department's top counterterrorism official. Benjamin said that the order was unlikely to reduce the terrorist threat, and \"many experts believe the order's unintended consequences will make the threat worse.\" Kurzman noted that since the September 11 attacks in 2001, no one has been killed in the U.S. in a terrorist attack by anyone who emigrated from or whose parents emigrated from the seven affected countries. Jenkins explained that of the 147 Jihadist plots and attacks since 9/11, 105 were perpetrated by U.S. citizens and 20 involved legal permanent residents. \"In other words, 85 percent of the terrorists lived in the U.S. a long time before carrying out an attack—they were radicalized within the nation's borders.\" Jenkins went on to say: \"Had this temporary prohibition been in effect since 9/11, how many lives would have been saved Not one.\" While Jenkins conceded that there were two individuals whose entry would have been prevented had the ban been in place since 9/11, both were in the country for years prior to engaging in terrorist related activities. According to Jenkins, the \"... failure to identify these individuals before they entered the United States is not a flaw in the vetting process; it is our inability to predict human behavior years into the future.\"\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\" reporter Scott Shane, the seven countries in the executive order had a \"random quality\"; the list excluded Saudi Arabia and Egypt (where many jihadist groups were founded) and Pakistan and Afghanistan (where extremism has a long history, and which have \"produced militants who have occasionally reached the United States\"). Benjamin stated that the order might be counterproductive in terms of counterterrorism cooperation and feeding into \"the jihadist narrative\" of a West at war with Islam. Jonathan Schanzer of the conservative Foundation for the Defense of Democracies said that \"The order appears to be based mainly on a campaign promise,\" and did not appear to be tied to any effort to improve vetting or other procedures.\n\nShortly after the enactment of the executive order, at 4:42 pm on January 27, border officials across the country began enforcing the new rules. \"The New York Times\" reported people with various backgrounds and statuses being denied entry or sent back; this included refugees and minority Christians from the affected countries as well as students and green-card holders returning to the United States after visits abroad.\n\nPeople from the countries mentioned in the order with valid visas were turned away from flights to the U.S. Some were stranded in a foreign country while in transit. Several people already on planes flying to the U.S. at the time the order was signed were detained on arrival. On January 28 the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) estimated that there were 100 to 200 people being detained in U.S. airports, and hundreds were barred from boarding U.S.-bound flights. About 60 legal permanent residents were reported as detained at Dulles International Airport near Washington, D.C. Travelers were also detained at O'Hare International Airport without access to their cellphones and unable to access legal assistance. The Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) offers free legal help to travels who experience problems with the \"ban\". Attorneys are stationed, around the clock, at the Chicago airport and CAIR also encourages travelers to register with them, prior to travel. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) said on January 28 that the order was applied to \"less than one percent\" of the 325,000 air travelers who arrived in the United States. By January 29 DHS estimated that 375 travelers had been affected with 109 travelers in transit and another 173 prevented from boarding flights. In some airports there were reports that Border Patrol agents were requesting access to travelers' social media accounts.\n\nOn February 3 attorneys for the DOJ's Office of Immigration Litigation advised a judge hearing one of the legal challenges to the order that more than 100,000 visas have been revoked as a consequence of the order. They also advised the judge that no legal permanent residents have been denied entry. The State Department later revised this figure downward to fewer than 60,000 revoked visas and clarified that the larger DOJ figure incorrectly included visas that were exempted from the travel ban (such as diplomatic visas) and expired visas.\n\nOn January 30, Trump said on Twitter \"Only 109 people ... were detained and held for questioning\"; Homeland Security officials later said this number referred to the initial hours of the order's implementation. On January 31, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) reported that 721 people were detained or denied boarding under the order; CBP also reported 1,060 waivers for green-card holders had been processed; 75 waivers had been granted for persons with immigrant and nonimmigrant visas; and 872 waivers for refugees had been granted. On February 23, the Justice Department provided the ACLU with a list of 746 people who were detained or processed by CBP during the twenty-six hours from Judge Ann Donnelly's ruling at 9:37pm on January 28 to 11:59pm on January 29; the ACLU has identified at least 10 people meeting this description who are not on the list they received. Detentions continued at Chicago's O'Hare airport on January 30.\n\nThe effect of the order was far broader, however, than the number of people detained. In terms of barred visa-holders, the federal government reported that more than \"100,000 visas for foreigners inside and outside the United States have also been revoked, at least temporarily.\" \"The Washington Post\" fact-checker, citing State Department figures, reported that 60,000 U.S. visas were issued in the seven affected countries in fiscal year 2015. \"The New York Times\" reported that 86,000 nonimmigrant, temporary visas (mostly for tourism, business travel, temporary work, or education) has been granted to citizens in the seven affected countries in the 2015 fiscal year. The executive order also barred people from the seven countries from obtaining new immigrant visas. In 2015, 52,365 people from the seven affected countries had been issued green cards (which are typically awarded soon after the arrival of an immigrant visa-holder to the United States); \"[i]n general, about half of recent new legal permanent residents are new arrivals to the country, and the other half had their status adjusted after living in the United States.\"\n\nIn the weeks of 2017 prior to the executive order, the U.S. admitted approximately 1,800 refugees per week (total) from the seven countries covered by the order. While the executive order was in effect, the U.S. received two refugees from those countries.\n\nGoogle called its traveling employees back to the U.S. in case the order prevented them from returning. About 100 of the company's employees were thought to be affected by the order. Google CEO Sundar Pichai wrote in a letter to his staff that \"it's painful to see the personal cost of this executive order on our colleagues. We've always made our view on immigration issues known publicly and will continue to do so.\" Amazon.com Inc., citing disruption in travel for its employees, and Expedia Inc., citing impact to its customers and refund costs, filed declarations in support of the states of Washington and Minnesota in their case against the executive order, \"State of Washington v. Trump\".\n\nHowever, Committee for Economic Development CEO Steve Odland and several other executives and analysts commented that the order will not lead to significant changes in IT hiring practices among US companies, since the countries affected are not the primary source of foreign talent. According to the Hill \"a cross-section of legal experts and travel advocates\" say that the order \"could have a chilling effect on U.S. tourism, global business and enrollment in American universities\".\n\nOne effect of Trump's election and policies, and in particular, Trump's executive order, is the \"Trump Slump\" on the U.S. tourism industry, which contributed $1.47 trillion to the country's GDP in 2014. As reported by Frommer's, according to Global Business Travel Association, as well as local tourist offices, with policies such as Executive Order 13769 making foreigners feeling less welcome, fewer tourists began traveling to the U.S., with all foreign tourism down 6.8%, online searches for flights from foreign countries down 17%, and foreign business travel dropping by $185 million during the first week of the immigration suspension. Economic Research Firm Oxford Economics found that Los Angeles County could lose 800,000 visitors—who would otherwise account for $736 million in tourism spending— as a direct result of the ban.\n\nAccording to Trita Parsi, the president of the National Iranian American Council, the order distressed citizens of the affected countries including those holding valid green cards and valid visas. Those outside the U.S. fear that they will not be allowed in, while those already in the country fear that they will not be able to leave, even temporarily, because they would not be able to return.\n\nSome sources have stated that the executive order, if upheld, is likely to contribute to a doctor shortage in the United States, disproportionately affecting rural areas and underprovided specialties. According to an analysis by a Harvard Medical School group of professors, research analysts and physicians, the executive order is likely to reduce the number of physicians in the United States as approximately 5% of the foreign-trained physicians in the United States were trained in the seven countries targeted by the executive order. These doctors are disproportionately likely to practice medicine in rural, underserved regions and specialties facing a large shortage of practitioners. According to The Medicus Firm, which recruits doctors for hard-to-fill jobs, Trump's executive order covers more than 15,000 physicians in the United States.\n\nDemocrats \"were nearly united in their condemnation\" of the policy with opposition from Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer (D-NY), Senators Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Kamala Harris (D-CA), former U.S. Secretaries of State Madeleine Albright and Hillary Clinton, and former President Barack Obama. Some Republicans praised the order with Speaker of the House Paul Ryan saying that Trump was \"right to make sure we are doing everything possible to know exactly who is entering our country\" while noting that he supported the refugee resettlement program. However, some top Republicans in Congress criticized the order. A statement from Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham cited the confusion that the order caused and the fact that the \"order went into effect with little to no consultation with the Departments of State, Defense, Justice, and Homeland Security\". Senator Susan Collins also objected to the ban. Some 1,000 career U.S. diplomats signed a \"dissent cable\" (memorandum) outlining their disagreement with the order, sending it through the State Department's Dissent Channel, in what is believed to be the largest number to ever sign on to a dissent cable. Over 40 Nobel laureates, among many academics, also opposed the order. Polls of the American public's opinion of the order were mixed with some polls showing majority opposition while others show majority support. Public responses often depended on the wording of polling questions. Some critics accused the order of being a \"Muslim ban\" because the order only targeted Muslim-majority countries, because Trump's advisers called it a \"Muslim ban\", and Trump himself equated the order to a Muslim ban on at least 12 occasions.\n\nThe order prompted broad condemnation from the international community including longstanding U.S. allies and the United Nations. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau stated that Canada would continue to welcome refugees regardless of their faith. British Prime Minister Theresa May was initially reluctant to condemn the policy, having just met with Trump the day prior, saying that \"the United States is responsible for the United States policy on refugees\", but said she \"did not agree\" with the approach. France, Germany and Turkey condemned the order. Some media outlets said Australian prime minister Malcolm Turnbull avoided public comment on the order with Turnbull saying it \"is not my job\" to criticize it. However, Australian opinion soured after a tweet by Trump appeared to question a refugee deal already agreed by Turnbull and Obama. Iran's Ministry of Foreign Affairs characterized Trump's order as insulting to the Islamic world and counter-productive in the attempt to combat extremism. The commander of the Iraqi Air Force said he is \"worried and surprised\", as the ban may affect Iraqi security forces members (such as Iraqi pilots being trained in US) who are on the front-lines of fighting ISIS terrorism. However, traditional US allies in the region were largely silent. On February 1 the United Arab Emirates became the first Muslim-majority nation to back the order.\n\nSome Catholic leaders have condemned the ban and encouraged mercy and compassion towards refugees. The executive director of the Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty, Amanda Tyler, stated that the executive order was \"a back-door bar on Muslim refugees.\" The director of the Alliance of Baptists, Paula Clayton Dempsey, urged support for U.S. resettlement of refugees. Members of the Southern Baptist Convention were largely supportive of the executive order. \"The Economist\" noted that the order was signed on International Holocaust Remembrance Day. This, as well as Trump's omission of any reference to Jews or anti-Semitism in his concurrent address for Holocaust Remembrance Day and the ban's possible effect on Muslim refugees, led to condemnation from Jewish organizations, including the Anti-Defamation League, the HIAS, and J Street, as well as some Holocaust survivors.\nThe polls found that majority of Americans (55 %) and 34% of Britons supported Trump's travel ban on visitors from six predominantly Muslim countries. Some European far-right groups and politicians, such as Geert Wilders and French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen, applauded the executive order. Some \"alt-right\" groups, as well as white nationalists and the Ku Klux Klan also praised the executive order.\n\nJihadist and Islamic terrorist groups celebrated the executive order as a victory saying that \"the new policy validates their claim that the United States is at war with Islam.\" ISIS-linked social media postings \"compared the executive order to the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, which Islamic militant leaders at the time hailed as a 'blessed invasion' that ignited anti-Western fervor across the Islamic world.\"\n\nFrom January 28, thousands of protesters gathered at airports and other locations throughout the United States to protest the signing of the order and detention of the foreign nationals. Members of the United States Congress, including U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and U.S. Representative John Lewis (D-GA) joined protests in their own home states. Google co-founder Sergey Brin (who emigrated to the United States with his family from the Soviet Union at the age of five) and Y Combinator president Sam Altman joined the protest at San Francisco airport. There have been several online protests, and many people have taken to speaking out over social media. Virginia governor, Terry McAuliffe, joined the protest at Dulles International Airport on Saturday.\n\nFollowing Trump's announcement of the order, the topic began to trend on social media. Hashtags such as #MuslimBan, #TravelBan and #BanTrumpFromUK emerged. Shortly after, protests arose urging for the cancellation of Trump's UK visit, garnering up to 1.5 million signatures.\n\nOn January 30, Trump tweeted \"Only 109 people out of 325,000 were detained and held for questioning. Big problems at airports were caused by Delta computer outage...\" He continued on in another tweet, \"protesters and the tears of Senator Chuck Schumer. Secretary John F. Kelly said that all is going well with very few problems. MAKE AMERICA SAFE AGAIN!\" \n\nCelebrities, including Seth Rogen, Mindy Kaling, Jennifer Lawrence and many others expressed their opinions on the order.\n\nOn June 13, Trump proposed to suspend immigration from \"areas of the world\" with a history of terrorism, a change from his previous proposal to suspend Muslim immigration to the U.S. The hashtag became popular on Twitter and opposition to the Executive Order widely spread among all social media platforms.\n\nUnder the new policy, citizens from Libya, Syria, Iran, Somalia, Yemen and Sudan would be banned from entering the U.S. if they couldn't prove that they have a \"bona fide relationship\" with families in America, which excludes grandparents, aunts, uncles or any other \"distant relatives.\" To express the opposition to the order, the hashtag #GrandParentsNotTerrorists was launched by the National Iranian American Council (NIAC). The hashtag allowed residents of the six countries to use Twitter and post photos of their grandparents to protest the policy.\n\nLegal challenges to the order were brought almost immediately after its issuance. From January 28 to January 31 almost 50 cases were filed in federal courts. The courts, in turn, granted temporary relief, including a nationwide temporary restraining order (TRO) that bars the enforcement of major parts of the executive order. The TRO specifically blocks the executive branch from enforcing provisions of the executive order that (1) suspend entry into the U.S. for people from seven countries for 90 days and (2) place limitations on the acceptance of refugees, including \"any action that prioritizes the refugee claims of certain religious minorities.\" The TRO also allows \"people from the seven countries who had been authorized to travel, along with vetted refugees from all nations, to enter the country.\" The Trump administration appealed the TRO. According to the DHS Inspector General, U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers then violated the court orders by continuing to prevent some foreign passengers from boarding flights bound for the United States. DHS officials contest the DHS Inspector General's finding that the court orders were violated.\n\nThe plaintiffs challenging the order argue that it contravenes the United States Constitution, federal statutes, or both. The parties challenging the executive order include both private individuals (some of whom were blocked from entering the U.S. or detained following the executive order's issuance) and the states of Washington and Minnesota, represented by their state attorneys general. Other organizations such as the ACLU also challenged the order in court. Additionally, fifteen Democratic state attorneys general released a joint statement calling the executive order \"unconstitutional, un-American and unlawful\", and that \"[w]e'll work together to fight it\".\nIn response to the lawsuits the Department of Homeland Security issued a statement on January 29 that it would continue to enforce the executive order and that \"prohibited travel will remain prohibited\". On the same day a White House spokesperson said that the rulings did not undercut the executive order. On January 30 Acting Attorney General Sally Yates, an Obama administration holdover pending the confirmation of Trump's nominee barred the Justice Department from defending the executive order in court; She said she felt the order's effects were not in keeping \"with this institution's solemn obligation to always seek justice and stand for what is right\".<ref name=\"wsj 1/30\"></ref> After Yates spoke against Trump's refugee ban Trump quickly relieved her of her duties calling her statement a \"betrayal\" to the Department of Justice. He replaced her with Dana J. Boente the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. This leadership alteration was referred to, by some, as \"the Monday Night Massacre\".\nThe state of Washington filed a legal challenge, \"State of Washington v. Trump\", against the executive order; Minnesota later joined the case. On February 3 District Judge James Robart of the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington presiding in \"Washington v. Trump\" issued a ruling temporarily blocking major portions of the executive order; he said that the plaintiffs had \"demonstrate[d] immediate and irreparable injury\", and were likely to succeed in their challenge to the federal defendants. Robart explicitly wrote his judgment to apply nationwide. In response to Robart's ruling the Department of Homeland Security said on February 4 that it had stopped enforcing the executive order, while the State Department reinstated visas that had been previously suspended.\n\nThat same day the Justice Department asked for an emergency stay to reverse Judge Robart's ruling temporarily blocking the executive order nationwide. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit denied Trump's immediate petition to stay the temporary restraining order from the Federal District Court in Washington State. On February 9, two days after hearing argument, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit unanimously denied the request for a stay of Judge Robart's temporary restraining order. On February 16, the Trump administration state in a court filing before the Ninth Circuit that they expected to replace executive order with a new one the following week; the court responded by staying the \"en-banc\" review of its previous ruling.\n\nJudge Alex Kozinski of the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals filed a late dissent on March 17, 2017 to the 9th Cir. opinion in \"Washington v. Trump\" arguing against the State of Washington's Establishment Clause claims on grounds that Trump's speech during the campaign was political protected by the First Amendment. (Even though the 9th Circuit had declined to address that issue in reaching its ruling on \"Washington v. Trump\" and U.S. courts do not typically rule on issues that are not before them, Kozinski argued it was ok for him to address the issue because the District Judge in Hawaii had cited the 9th Cir. opinion in reaching its Establishment Clause ruling.)\n\nOn February 13 Judge Leonie Brinkema of the Eastern District of Virginia ordered a preliminary injunction against the federal defendants in \"Aziz v. Trump\" because the executive order was likely discriminatory against Muslims. Her ruling was the first among cases challenging the executive order to find that plaintiffs were likely to succeed on grounds that the executive order violated the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nOn August 13 the plaintiffs, State of Hawaii and the Muslim Association of Hawaii, dropped the lawsuit, effectively ending the litigation.\n\nIn February 2017, \"Politico\" reported Trump \"suggest[ing] that the White House is trying to redraft the order to strengthen it against legal challenges.\" The federal government also said in court filings that a new executive order is planned to be issued to addresses constitutional concerns about EO 13769. A White House official later quoted by CNN suggested the new order was being delayed, in part by the administration's expectations about the executive order's perception relative to other events in the news cycle. (Trump initially claimed the replacement order would be issued the week of February 19. On February 22 the Trump administration said the replacement order would be delayed until the following week. That week, the White House expected the order to be issued Wednesday, March 1.) According to the White House, the order has been \"finalized\" since at least February 22, although at that time agencies were still working out how to implement it.\n\nAccording to an administration officials, a redraft version of the executive order will focus on the same seven countries minus Iraq, but exempt lawful permanent residents and those who already hold visas, whether or not they have entered the United States. The new executive order would reportedly also drop the indefinite suspension of Syrian refugee immigration and reduce it to the 120-day suspension specified for other countries in the order.\n\nA redrafted executive order was issued March 6, 2017. The redraft drops Iraq from some the provisions regarding the seven countries specified by executive order 13769. Tillerson, McMaster, and Mattis had advocated for the exclusion of Iraq. The redraft executive order removes the exemption for religious minorities in the banned countries that was present in the first order. The redrafted order does not apply to green-card holders or anyone with a valid visa who is inside the U.S. The redrafted order includes case-by-case waiver process that was not available to refugees from the countries affected by the first order.\n\nOn March 15, 2017, United States District Judge Derrick Watson of the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii issued a temporary restraining order preventing executive order 13780 from going into effect, on the grounds that the State of Hawaii showed a strong likelihood of success on their Establishment Clause claim in asserting that Executive Order 13780 was in fact a \"Muslim ban\". Judge Watson stated in his ruling, \"When considered alongside the constitutional injuries and harms discussed above, and the questionable evidence supporting the Government's national security motivations, the balance of equities and public interests justify granting the Plaintiffs. Nationwide relief is appropriate in light of the likelihood of success on the Establishment Clause claim.\" The ruling was denounced by President Donald Trump as being \"an unprecedented judicial overreach\", and stated that the ruling would be appealed, and that \"This ruling makes us look weak.\"\n\nIn a per curiam decision, on June 26, 2017, the Supreme Court reinstated key provisions of the order. The court also granted certiorari and set oral arguments for the fall term.\n\n"}
{"id": "10626141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10626141", "title": "Family reunification", "text": "Family reunification\n\nFamily reunification is a recognized reason for immigration in many countries because of the presence of one or more family members in a certain country, therefore, enables the rest of the divided family or only specific members of the family to immigrate to that country as well.\n\nFamily reunification laws try to balance the right of a family to live together with the country's right to control immigration. However, what this balance looks like, e.g. which members of the family can be reunited, differs largely between countries.\n\nA sub-case of family reunification is marriage migration, where one spouse immigrates to the country of the other spouse. Marriage migration can take place before marriage, in which case it falls under its own special category, or it can take place after marriage, in which case it falls under family reunification laws. Some countries allow family reunification for unmarried partners, provided they can prove an ongoing intimate relationship that also lasted longer than a certain period of time.\n\nIn recent years, there have been several cases of minors sent out on hazardous journeys in order to apply for political asylum status which, once granted, would enable the rest of the family to join them. However, in some countries only over 18 years old can apply for family reunification and it is only possible to be reunited with child dependants under 16 or partners, and not for parents or siblings.\n\nA major part of immigrants to Europe do so through family reunification laws. Many countries in Europe have passed laws in recent years to limit people's ability to do so.\n\n\nUnder the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act and associated Regulations, a Canadian citizen or permanent resident of Canada aged at least 18 is allowed, subject to certain conditions, to sponsor specific members of their immediate family for permanent residence in Canada.\nThe eligible persons are the sponsor's spouse, common-law partner, or conjugal partner aged 16 and over, parents and grandparents, a dependent child of the sponsor, a child whom the sponsor intends to adopt, and orphaned brothers, sisters, nieces, or grandchildren under the age of 18 and who are not married or living in a common-law relationship. As an exception to the rules, if there are no eligible persons from the preceding list who may be sponsored and the sponsor has no relatives in Canada, the 'last-remaining family member' may be sponsored, but applications of this type are rare.\n\nSome families spend many years apart before reuniting, even going as far as children having little to no memories of being all together in their home country. Once a family has been reunited in Canada, they must go through the process of getting to know one another again . This process is not always easy, as at times children describe the parents who moved to Canada first as strangers. Living together once again and settling into a new culture, language, jobs, and schools can be stressful for families and leave a lot for them to work through .\n\nFamily reunification is the most common legal basis for immigration to the United States, and it is governed by the terms of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended. Historically, the emphasis on family reunification in American immigration law began in that 1965 act by allotting 74% of all new immigrants allowed into the United States to family reunification visas. Those included, in descending preference, unmarried adult children of U.S. citizens (20%), spouses and unmarried children of permanent resident aliens (20%), married children of U.S. citizens (10%), and brothers and sisters of U.S. citizens over age 21 (24%). Since 2016, advocates of more restrictive immigration laws have often criticized family reunification as Chain migration, however, scholars typically use that term for the broader process by which people from particular towns or regions follow each other to new cities and occupations.\n\nCitizens and permanent residents of the United States may sponsor relatives for immigration to the United States in a variety of ways. Citizens of any age may sponsor their spouses and their children, but only citizens who have reached the age of 21 may sponsor siblings and parents. (The Supreme Court decision \"United States v. Windsor\" ruled in 2013 that same-sex spouses must be treated the same as opposite-sex spouses.) Permanent residents may only sponsor spouses and unmarried children. In all cases, the sponsor must demonstrate the capacity to support their relative financially at 125% of the poverty level, and provide proof of the relationship. Immediate relatives of United States citizens (spouses, parents, and unmarried children under 21 years of age) are automatically eligible to immigrate upon approval of their application. All other people eligible to immigrate through a family member must wait for a place; a preference system governs the order at which these places become available. Citizens may only sponsor siblings, spouses, parents, and children. They cannot sponsor aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, cousins, grandparents, or grandchildren, though in some cases such relations may enjoy derivative status. \n\nOn December 23, 2017, James Robart, a Senior US District Judge, granted a nationwide injunction that blocks the administration’s restrictions on the process of reuniting refugee families and has partially lifted a ban on refugees from 11 mostly Muslim countries. \n\nUnder the Citizenship Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, \"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.\"\n\nUnder existing law, parents of United States citizens may be sponsored for immigration by their adult citizen children (those at least 21 years of age) under certain conditions. The child must demonstrate the financial ability to provide for the parents. In addition to this under current law and USCS policy individuals who entered illegally (EWI or Entry without Inspection) may not adjust in the country. However, leaving the United States triggers a ban on entering the U.S. If the parent was present in the U.S. for only between 180–364 days, the parent will receive a three-year ban. However, as is more common if the parent was present for 365 days or more, the parent will receive a ten-year ban on entering the United States. Unless the parent is willing to live out the ban outside the country, the parent may not regularize their status through the child. Parents who enter legally will not have to leave the U.S. to adjust their status unless they entered on K visas or entered on J visas and did not obtain a waiver for the foreign-stay period.\n\nHaving U.S.-citizen minor children is beneficial in deportation proceedings when there is \"extreme and profound hardship on the child\" for the parent to be deported. The number of such hardship waivers is capped at 5000 per year. Federal appellate courts have upheld the refusal by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to stay the deportation of illegal immigrants merely on the grounds that they have U.S.-citizen, minor children.\n\nThere are some 3.1 million United-States-citizen children with at least one illegal immigrant parent as of 2005. At least 13,000 American children had one or both parents deported in the years 2005–2007.\n\nOpponents of the current United States family reunification policy (who generally refer to the policy by the term, \"chain migration\") argue that the Hart-Celler Act's emphasis on family reunification resulted in the dramatic increase in migration in general.\n\nAccording to the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), an immigration-restrictionist think tank, \"chain migration--and the expectations and long lines it produces--increases illegal immigration.\" Additionally FAIR argues that \"illegal aliens given amnesty by Congress in 1986 are now fueling naturalization in record numbers. As these former illegal aliens become citizens, all of their immediate relatives qualify to come immediately to the United States, and start new migration chains of their own.\" It is inaccurate, however, to suggest that relatives of new citizens \"immediately\" qualify for immigration to the United States, because strict restrictions on the numbers of family reunification visas mean that the average wait time for such qualification is in fact 18 to 23 years.\n\nNumbersUSA, a group that lobbies Congress for lower levels of immigration, says that family reunification (which they refer to as \"chain migration\") is a main cause for creating incentives for illegal immigration.\n\nNumbersUSA, FAIR, and other groups lobby to change immigration law to place limits on the US family reunification policy. NumbersUSA cites a specific bill it supports. “On Feb. 4, 2009, Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA) introduced the Nuclear Family Priority Act (H.R. 878). The bill would eliminate the extended family visa categories (e.g., married sons and daughters of citizens, etc.), thus ending 'chain migration' as recommended by the bi-partisan Barbara Jordan Commission in 1997.”\n\nPresident Donald Trump tweeted on November 1, 2017: “CHAIN MIGRATION must end now! Some people come in, and they bring their whole family with them, who can be truly evil. NOT ACCEPTABLE!” Trump’s wife, Melania, sponsored her Slovenian parents for green cards in the United States, leading to them becoming naturalized citizens in August 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21256505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21256505", "title": "Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen &amp; Loewy", "text": "Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen &amp; Loewy\n\nFragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy LLP is an International immigration firm with headquarters in New York, established in 1951 and specialized in providing a range of immigration law services to corporate and individual clients, and is recognized as the world's largest firm that focuses its practice solely on global immigration law.\n\nFragomen Worldwide has more than 40 offices. Each office is established either as a law firm or an immigration consultancy, in accordance with applicable local law and regulation. Where there is no office, the firm works with selected partners. \n\n1951 Firm originally established as Elmer Fried P.C. in New York City\n\n1978 Opened second office in Washington, DC\n\n1979 Opened Florida and San Francisco offices\n\n1980 Opened Los Angeles office\n\n1985 Opened Chicago office\n\n1988 Opened New Jersey office\n\n1995 Opened office in Silicon Valley\n\n1997 Opened Troy and Irvine offices\n\n1998 Opened Dallas office\n\n1999 Opened first international office in Brussels\n\n2002 Opened offices in Boston, Hong Kong & Singapore\n\n2003 Opened offices in London and Frankfurt; and expanded the firm globally with the acquisition of PricewaterhouseCoopers's Australia immigration practice, establishing offices in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Brisbane\n\n2004 Expanded US presence with the acquisition of Hirson, Wexler & Perl in San Diego and Irvine\n\n2005 Opened Wellington, New Zealand office\n\n2006 Opened Shanghai and Canberra offices\n\n2007 Opened Hyderabad, Bangalore, Kochi, Dubai, Philadelphia, San Jose and Costa Rica offices\n\n2008 Opened offices in Beijing, Toronto \n\n2008 Acquired the immigration practice of Littler Mendelson and established a Phoenix office\n\n2009 Opened Johannesburg office\n\n2011 Opened Auckland, New Zealand, \n\n2012 Opened Atlanta, Guangzhou (China), São Paulo (Brazil), Belo Horizonte (Brazil) and Rio de Janeiro (Brazil) offices\n\n2013 Opened Zurich, Switzerland office; Mexico City office\n\n2014 Opened Houston, Kenya and Malaysia and expanded Dallas\n\n2015 Opened Bogota (Colombia) and Santiago (Chile) offices\n\n2016 Opened Lima (Peru) and Panama City offices (Panama)\n\n2017 Opened Buenos Aires (Argentina), Caracas (Venezuela) and Dublin (Ireland) offices\n\n2018 Opened Paris and Abu Dhabi\n\n"}
{"id": "4529532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4529532", "title": "Gosselin (Tutor of) v Quebec (AG)", "text": "Gosselin (Tutor of) v Quebec (AG)\n\nGosselin (Tutor of) v Quebec (AG), 2005 SCC 15, [2005] 1 SCR 238 is a leading case of the Supreme Court of Canada on the constitutional protection of minority language rights under section 23 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\". The case was part of a trilogy of minority language rights cases including \"Solski (Tutor of) v Quebec (AG)\", 2005 SCC 14 and \"Okwuobi v Lester B Pearson School Board; Casimir v Quebec (AG); Zorrilla v Quebec (AG)\", 2005 SCC 16.\n\nA number of French-speaking families who wanted their children educated in English but did not qualify under the \"Charter of the French Language\" for English schooling challenged the French Charter as a violation of their equality rights under sections 10 and 12 of the \"Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms\".\n\nThe Court rejected the claim. It held that the parents were not protected under the minority language rights provision in section 23 of the \"Canadian Charter\". The Court also found that the equality right cannot be used to invalidate other rights under the Constitution; consequently there was no violation.\n\n"}
{"id": "51365383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51365383", "title": "Impeachment in Russia", "text": "Impeachment in Russia\n\nImpeachment of the President of the Russian Federation — initiated by the Parliament's legal procedure, providing for the termination of the Russian President of his powers.\n\nThe impeachment procedure was carried out three times. All three times it was held against President Boris Yeltsin, and all three times had failed.\n\nIn accordance with the current Russian legislation, the removal from office of the President are regulated by article 93 of the Constitution. It provides for indictment by the State Duma, should be accompanied by the opinion of the Supreme Court of Russia and Constitutional Court of Russia on observance of prescribed procedure for charging. The decision to impeach the President accepts the Federation Council.\n\nThe decision of the State Duma on bringing charges and the decision of the Federation Council on dismissal of the President from office must be adopted by two-thirds of the total number in each of chambers (300 and 114 respectively) on the initiative of not less than one third (150) of deputies of the State Duma and with the conclusion of the special Commission formed by the State Duma. The decision of the Federation Council on impeachment of the President of the Russian Federation from office must be adopted not later than within three months after the extension of the State Duma of the charges against the President. If within this period the Federation Council's decision is not accepted, charges against the President shall be considered rejected.\n\n"}
{"id": "25408374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25408374", "title": "International Association of Insurance Supervisors", "text": "International Association of Insurance Supervisors\n\nThe International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) is a voluntary membership-driven standards-setting organization of insurance supervisors and regulators from over 190 jurisdictions in more than 140 countries. Founded in 1994, it seeks to \"supervise the insurance industry in order to develop and maintain fair, safe, and stable insurance markets\". In addition to its members, approximately 135 observers representing international institutions, professional associations and insurance and reinsurance companies, as well as consultants and other professionals participate in IAIS activities. \n\nThe IAIS is a nonprofit organisation formed under Article 60 of the Swiss Civil Code, domiciled in Basel, Switzerland. Its activities are supported by its secretariat and headed by a secretary general. The IAIS is hosted by the Bank for International Settlements (BIS).\n\nUnder the direction of its Members, the IAIS conducts activities through a Committee system designed to achieve its mandate and objectives.\nThe IAIS Committee system is led by an Executive Committee whose members come from different regions of the world. It is supported by five Committees established by the By-Laws – the Audit, Budget, Financial Stability, Implementation, and Technical Committees – as well as by the Supervisory Forum. Committees may establish subcommittees or working parties to help carry out their duties.\n\nActivities undertaken in furtherance of its mission can be divided into three categories:\n\nThe IAIS coordinates its work with other international financial policymakers and associations of supervisors or regulators, and assists in shaping financial systems globally. In particular, the IAIS is a:\n\nThe IAIS also participates as an observer or partner with numerous other organisations, including the Arab Forum of Insurance Regulatory Commissions (AFIRC), Asian Forum of Insurance Regulators (AFIR), Association of Latin American Insurance Supervisors (ASSAL), Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP), European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA), Financial Action Task Force (FATF), International Actuarial Association (IAA), International Organisation of Pension Supervisors (IOPS), Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB), National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), Offshore Group of Insurance Supervisors (OGIS), Insurance and Private Pensions Committee (IPPC), OECD, IMF, and the World Bank.\n\nThe IAIS holds Committee meetings four times a year, as well as Working Party meetings as needed, throughout the world. At its June meetings, the IAIS hosts a Global Seminar affording insurance supervisors and industry representatives a unique opportunity to discuss current and globally significant matters impacting the insurance sector, as well as to learn about new international standards.\n\nTo further encourage multilateral discussions on topical issues for insurance supervisors and other insurance professionals, the IAIS holds an Annual Conference. In conjunction with this conference, it convenes an Annual General Meeting of Members where it conducts official business. \n\nThe Global Insurance Market Report (GIMAR) collects and reports data reflecting the performance of primary insurers and reinsurers as well as key developments in the global insurance market. It builds on the previously issued Global Reinsurance Market Report, which has been incorporated as an integral part of the GIMAR. Publication of the GIMAR by the IAIS Secretariat began in October 2012. The GIMAR is based on publicly available data as well as confidential data submitted to the IAIS by about 50 reinsurance companies.\n\nThe IAIS publishes a monthly newsletter outlining recent and upcoming activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54432193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54432193", "title": "International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage", "text": "International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage\n\nThe International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage (BUNKER) is an International treaty listed and administered by the International Maritime Organization, signed in London on and in force generally on . The purpose is to adopt uniform international rules and procedures for determining questions of liability and providing adequate compensation.\n\nIn the convention, Bunker Oil is fuel used to power the ship. The convention covers leakage of that oil, and requires signatories to the convention to have their ships appropriately insured against such leakages.\n\nIt is associated with and references:\n\nWhile BUNKER is apparently similar to CLC Convention – they are substantially different. Unlike the CLC, the BUNKER Convention is not limited to persistent fuel oils and will apply to any hydrocarbon used to operate the ship.\n\nWhile the convention has been widely adopted, notable exceptions includes Bolivia, Honduras, and Lebanon—which are generally flag of convenience states—have not ratified the treaty. As with the CLC, the United States of America was a driver behind the BUNKER convention, and had legislation in place similar to BUNKER provisions, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, hence it claimed, the treaty did not need to be signed.\n\nAs of November 2018, the treaty has been ratified by 90 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "47152374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47152374", "title": "Jennifer Fichter", "text": "Jennifer Fichter\n\nJennifer Christine Fichter (born 8 December 1984) is an American convicted criminal and former English teacher in Polk County, Florida, United States. Fichter was arrested by Lakeland Police on April 15, 2014 and charged with numerous counts of sexual battery stemming from relationships with three 17-year-old students.\n\nJennifer Fichter was born on December 8, 1984 and graduated from Paxon High School, Jacksonville, Florida in June 2003. She then attended the University of Florida from August 2003 to December 2006 earning a Bachelor of Arts Degree majoring in English. She held instructional teaching positions at Robinswood Middle School, Orange County, Florida from August 13, 2007 to December 19, 2008. On December 19, 2008 she resigned pending the outcome an investigation for alleged offenses of inappropriate behavior.\n\nMs Fichter was hired as an English teacher at Kathleen High School on August 29, 2011, and was paid US$40,530 per year. The Central Florida Aerospace Academy is a career academy of Kathleen High and holds classes at Lakeland Linder International Airport. Fichter was unanimously fired by the Polk County School Board on April 22, 2014 after her arrest for sexual relationships with three of her male students over 37 times between August 2012 and April 2014.\n\nAs of June 7, 2014 Fichter was being held in the Polk County Jail with a bond set at US$520,000.\n\nFichter was convicted and, on July 2, 2015, was sentenced to 22 years' imprisonment. A Polk County judge called her a predator during sentencing. The sentencing by Judge Glenn T. Shelby was immediately controversial, with the unusually long sentence being reviled by many, especially in Europe.\n"}
{"id": "180345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180345", "title": "Jury nullification", "text": "Jury nullification\n\nJury nullification is a concept where members of a trial jury find a defendant not guilty if they do not support a government's law, do not believe it is constitutional or humane, or do not support a possible punishment for breaking the law. This may happen in both civil and criminal trials. In a criminal trial, a jury nullifies by acquitting a defendant, even though the members of the jury may believe that the defendant did commit the alleged crime. This may occur when members of the jury disagree with the law the defendant has been charged with breaking, or believe that the law should not be applied in that particular case. A jury can similarly convict a defendant on the ground of disagreement with an existing law, even if no law is broken (although in jurisdictions with double jeopardy rules, a conviction can be overturned on appeal, but an acquittal cannot).\n\nA jury verdict that is contrary to the letter of the law pertains only to the particular case before it. If a pattern of acquittals develops, however, in response to repeated attempts to prosecute a statutory offence, this can have the de facto effect of invalidating the statute. A pattern of jury nullification may indicate public opposition to an unwanted legislative enactment.\n\nIn the past, it was feared that a single judge or panel of government officials might be unduly influenced to follow established legal practice, even when that practice had drifted from its origins. In most modern Western legal systems, however, judges often instruct juries to act only as \"finders of facts\", whose role it is to determine the veracity of the evidence presented, the weight accorded to the evidence, to apply that evidence to the law as explained by the judge, and to reach a verdict; but not to question the law or decide what it says. Similarly, juries are routinely cautioned by courts and some attorneys not to allow sympathy for a party or other affected persons to compromise the fair and dispassionate evaluation of evidence. These instructions are criticized by advocates of jury nullification. Some commonly cited historical examples of jury nullification involve jurors refusing to convict persons accused of violating the Fugitive Slave Act by assisting runaway slaves or being fugitive slaves themselves, and refusal of American colonial juries to convict a defendant under English law.\n\nJuries have also refused to convict due to the perceived injustice of a law in general, or of the way the law is applied in particular cases. There have also been cases where the jury has refused to convict due to their own prejudices (for example, about the race of one of the parties in the case).\n\nJury nullification is the source of much debate. Some maintain that it is an important safeguard of last resort against wrongful imprisonment and government tyranny. Others view it as a violation of the right to a jury trial, which undermines the law. Some view it as a violation of the oath sworn by jurors. In the United States, some view the requirement that jurors take an oath to be unlawful in itself, while still others view the oath's reference to \"deliverance\" to \"require\" nullification of unjust law: \"will well and truly try and a true deliverance make between the United States and the defendant at the bar, and a true verdict render according to the evidence, so help [me] God\". Some fear that nullification could be used to permit violence against socially unpopular factions. They point to the danger that a jury may choose to convict a defendant who has not broken the letter of the law. However, judges retain the rights both to decide sentences and to disregard juries' guilty verdicts, acting as a check against malicious juries. Jury nullification may also occur in civil suits, in which the verdict is generally a finding of liability or lack of liability (rather than a finding of guilty or not guilty).\n\nThe main ethical issue involved in jury nullification is the tension between democratic self-government and integrity. The argument has been raised that prosecutors are not allowed to seek jury nullification, and therefore defendants should not be allowed to seek it either. However, for a prosecutor to nullify a law in this context would require negating the presumption of innocence. (For this reason, prosecutorial nullification is typically defined as declination to prosecute.)\n\nNevertheless, there is little doubt as to the ability of a jury to nullify the law. Today, there are several issues raised by jury nullification, such as:\n\nIn some cases in the United States, a stealth juror will attempt to get on a jury in order to nullify the law. Some lawyers use a shadow defense to get information entered into the record that would otherwise be inadmissible hoping that evidence will trigger a jury nullification.\n\nThe early history of juries supports the recognition of the \"de facto\" power of nullification. By the 12th century, common law courts in England began using juries for more than administrative duties. Juries were composed primarily of \"laymen\" from the local community. They provided a somewhat efficient means of dispute resolution with the benefit of supplying legitimacy.\n\nThe general power of juries to decide on verdicts was recognised in the English Magna Carta of 1215, which put into words existing practices:\n\nLargely, the earliest juries returned verdicts in accordance with the judge or the Crown. This was achieved either by \"packing the jury\" or by \"writ of attaint\". Juries were packed by hand-selecting or by bribing the jury so as to return the desired verdict. This was a common tactic in cases involving treason or sedition. In addition, the writ of attaint allowed a judge to retry the case in front of a second jury when the judge believed the first jury returned a \"false verdict\". If the second jury returned a different verdict, that verdict was imposed and the first jury was imprisoned or fined.\n\nThis history, however, is marked by a number of notable exceptions. In 1554, a jury acquitted Sir Nicholas Throckmorton, but was severely punished by the court. Almost a century later in 1649, in the first known attempt to argue for jury nullification, a jury likewise acquitted John Lilburne for his part in inciting a rebellion against the Cromwell regime. The theoretician and politician Eduard Bernstein wrote of Lilburne's trial:\n\nIn 1653, Lilburne was on trial again and asked the jury to acquit him if it found the death penalty \"unconscionably severe\" in proportion to the crime he had committed. The jury found Lilburne \"Not guilty of any crime worthy of death\".\n\nIn 1670, a grand jury refused to convict William Penn of unlawful assembly in Bushel's Case. The judge attempted to find the jury in contempt of court; this was ruled inappropriate by the Court of Common Pleas.\n\nIn 1681, a grand jury refused to indict the Earl of Shaftesbury. Then in 1688, a jury acquitted the Seven Bishops of the Church of England of seditious libel. Juries continued, even in non-criminal cases, to act in defiance of the Crown. In 1763 and 1765, juries awarded £4,000 and £300 to John Wilkes and John Entick respectively, in separate suits for trespass against the Crown's messengers. In both cases, messengers were sent by Lord Halifax to seize allegedly libelous papers.\n\nIn Scotland, jury nullification had the profound effect of introducing (or as others believed, reviving) the verdict of \"not proven\". It was in 1728 that one Carnegie of Finhaven accidentally killed the Scottish Earl of Strathmore. As the defendant had undoubtedly killed the Earl, the law (as it stood) required the jury merely to look at the facts and pass a verdict of \"proven\" or \"not proven\" depending on whether they believed the facts proved the defendant had killed the Earl. However, if the jury brought in a \"proven\" verdict they would in effect cause this innocent man to die. To avert this injustice, the jury decided to assert what it believed to be their \"ancient right\" to judge the whole case and not just the facts, rendering the verdict of \"not guilty\", which remains in Scotland to this day. Over time, however, juries have tended to favour the \"not guilty\" verdict over \"not proven\" and with this the interpretation has changed. Now the \"not guilty\" verdict has become the normal verdict when a jury is convinced of innocence and the \"not proven\" verdict is only used when the jury is not certain of innocence or guilt.\n\nStandard jury trial practice in the United States during the Founding Era and for several decades afterward was to argue all issues of law in the presence of the jury, so that the jury heard the same arguments the bench did in reaching his rulings on motions. This is evidenced by such decisions as the 1839 case \"Stettinius v. U.S.\", in which it was held that \"The defense can argue law to the jury before the court gives instructions.\" Later, judges began to demand the parties submit motions in writing, often before the jury was empaneled, to be argued and decided without the jury being present. This transition began with motions \"in limine\", to exclude evidence on which it was felt the jury should not hear the argument because they would be informed of the evidence to be excluded. Later that was expanded to include all legal argument, so that today, that earlier practice of arguing law before the jury has been largely forgotten, and judges even declare mistrials or overturn verdicts if legal argument is made to the jury.\n\nAlthough extremely rare, jury nullification does occur in Canada. However, as the prosecution has powers to appeal the resulting acquittal, it lacks the finality found in the United States. That being said, the Crown cannot appeal on grounds of an unreasonable conviction but can only appeal on errors of law. In \"R. v. Latimer\", 2001 SCC 1, the Supreme Court discussed jury nullification, and indicated it is a duty of the presiding justice to try to prevent it from occurring.\n\nPerhaps the most famous cases of jury nullification in Canada were the various trials of Henry Morgentaler, who openly operated a private abortion clinic in violation of the Criminal Code. Repeated attempts at prosecuting Morgentaler resulted in acquittals at jury trials in the 1970s and 1980s. In the 1988 Supreme Court case, \"R. v. Morgentaler\", 1988 SCR 30, a nullification was appealed all the way to the country's highest court, which struck down the law in question. In \"obiter dicta\", Chief Justice Dickson wrote:\n\nThe Supreme Court more recently issued a decision, \"R. v. Krieger\", 2006 SCC 47, which confirmed that juries in Canada have the power to refuse to apply the law when their consciences require that they do so. Within this decision, it is stated that \"juries are not entitled as a matter of right to refuse to apply the law—but they do have the power to do so when their consciences permit of no other course\".\n\nBy the late 17th century, the court's power to punish juries was removed in \"Bushel's Case\" involving a juror on the case against William Penn. Penn and William Mead had been arrested in 1670 for illegally preaching a Quaker sermon and disturbing the peace, but four jurors, led by Edward Bushell, refused to find them guilty. Instead of dismissing the jury, the judge sent them back for further deliberations. Despite the judge demanding a guilty verdict, the jury this time unanimously found Penn guilty of preaching but acquitted him on the charge of disturbing the peace and acquitted Mead of all charges. The jury was then subsequently kept for three days without \"meat, drink, fire and tobacco\" to force them to bring in a guilty verdict; when they failed to do so the judge ended the trial. As punishment the judge ordered the jurors imprisoned until they paid a fine to the court. Four jurors refused to pay the fine, and after several months, Edward Bushell sought a writ of \"habeas corpus\". Chief Justice Vaughan, sitting on the Court of Common Pleas, discharged the writ, released them, called the power to punish a jury \"absurd\", and forbade judges from punishing jurors for returning a verdict the judge disagreed with. This series of events is considered a significant milestone in the history of jury nullification. The particular case is celebrated in a plaque displayed in the Central Criminal Court (the Old Bailey) in London.\n\nIn a criminal libel case, \"R. v. Shipley\" (1784), 4 Dougl. 73, 99 E.R. 774, at p. 824, Lord Mansfield disparaged the practice of jury nullification:\n\nA 2016 study exploring the history of juror punishment in England and Wales after Bushel's Case found no clear examples of jurors being punished solely for returning the \"wrong\" verdict. The closest a jury came to this was in 1917, when a jury acquitted two teenage boys of arson. The boys had confessed at their pre-trial hearing, but had entered pleas of not guilty at their trial. Home Office civil servants suspected the difference between the pleas could be explained by the difference between the boys' admittance that they had caused the fire, and their denial that they had done so maliciously. The trial judge either did not consider this possibility or was not satisfied with it. On receiving the jury's verdict, he told them \"you have been absolutely regardless of your oath. These men have pleaded guilty, and the evidence is of the clearest possible nature. You are none [\"sic\"] of you fit to serve on a Jury, but you will remain here until the end of the Sessions.\" The foreman, George Lathan, considered this a form of punishment for the jury, as the jurors were not going to be permitted to serve on any more juries, but were nonetheless required to keep attending court or face contempt proceedings. Lathan considered this a tacit form of imprisonment. Officials in the Lord Chancellor's Office noted that while the judge's conduct \"was ill-judged and arbitrary, he did not, so far as I can see, do any act which would justify the Lord Chancellor in removing him from the Bench\". Home Office officials wrote to the judge, advising him that his actions \"would be impossible for the Home Secretary to defend as constitutional or right\", and after several days the jurors were relieved of their duties. Home Office minutes suggest they did not think this kind of informal punishment of jurors who had returned the \"wrong\" verdict was unheard of.\n\nIn 1982, during the Falklands War, the British Royal Navy sank an Argentine cruiser, the ARA \"General Belgrano\". Three years later a civil servant (government employee) named Clive Ponting leaked two government documents concerning the sinking of the cruiser to a Member of Parliament (Tam Dalyell) and was subsequently charged with breaching section 2 of the Official Secrets Act 1911. The prosecution in the case demanded that the jury convict Ponting as he had clearly contravened the Act by leaking official information about the sinking of the Belgrano during the Falklands War. His main defence, that it was in the public interest that this information be made available, was rejected on the grounds that \"the public interest is what the government of the day says it is\", but the jury nevertheless acquitted him, much to the consternation of the Government. He had argued that he had acted out of \"his duty to the interests of the state\"; the judge had argued that civil servants owed their duty to the government.\n\nIn the United States, jury nullification first appeared just before the American Revolutionary War, when colonial juries frequently exercised their nullification power, principally in maritime cases and cases implicating free speech. Jury nullification became so common that many British prosecutors gave up trying maritime cases because conviction seemed hopeless. In the pre-Civil War era, juries sometimes refused to convict for violations of the Fugitive Slave Act. Later, during Prohibition, juries often nullified alcohol control laws, possibly as often as 60% of the time. This resistance may have contributed to the adoption of the Twenty-first amendment repealing Prohibition, the Eighteenth amendment.\n\nIn a well-known example of jury nullification, at the end of Wild Bill Hickok's trial for the manslaughter of Davis Tutt in 1865, Judge Sempronius Boyd gave the jury two instructions. He first instructed the jury that a conviction was its only option under the law; he then instructed them that they could apply the unwritten law of the \"fair fight\" and acquit. Hickok was acquitted, a verdict that was not popular with the public.\n\nJury nullification was practiced in the 1850s to protest the federal Fugitive Slave Act, which was part of the Compromise of 1850. The Act had been passed to mollify the slave owners from the South, who were otherwise threatening to secede from the Union. Across the North, local juries acquitted men accused of violating the law. Secretary of State Daniel Webster was a key supporter of the law as expressed in his famous \"Seventh of March\" speech. He wanted high-profile convictions.\n\nThe jury nullifications ruined his presidential aspirations and his last-ditch efforts to find a compromise between North and South. Webster led the prosecution when defendants were accused of rescuing Shadrach Minkins in 1851 from Boston officials who intended to return Minkins to his owner; the juries convicted none of the men. Webster tried to enforce a law that was extremely unpopular in the North, and his Whig Party passed over him again when they chose a presidential nominee in 1852.\n\nWhite defendants accused of crimes against blacks and other minorities have often been acquitted by all-white juries, especially in the South, even in the face of irrefutable evidence.\n\nIn the 21st century, many discussions of jury nullification center on drug laws that some consider unjust either in principle or because they are seen to discriminate against certain groups. A jury nullification advocacy group estimates that 3–4% of all jury trials involve nullification, and a recent rise in hung juries is seen by some as being indirect evidence that juries have begun to consider the validity or fairness of the laws themselves.\n\nIn the 1895 case of \"Sparf v. United States\" written by Justice John Marshall Harlan, the United States Supreme Court held 5 to 4 that a trial judge has no responsibility to inform the jury of the right to nullify laws. This decision, often cited, has led to a common practice by United States judges to penalize anyone who attempts to present a nullification argument to jurors and to declare a mistrial if such argument has been presented to them. In some states, jurors are likely to be struck from the panel during \"voir dire\" if they will not agree to accept as correct the rulings and instructions of the law as provided by the judge.\n\nIn recent rulings, the courts have continued to prohibit informing juries about jury nullification. In a 1969, Fourth Circuit decision, \"U.S. v. Moylan\", 417 F.2d 1002 (4th Cir.1969), the Court affirmed the concept of jury nullification, but upheld the power of a court to refuse to permit an instruction to the jury to this effect. In 1972, in \"United States v. Dougherty\", 473 F.2d 1113, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a ruling similar to \"Moylan\" that affirmed the \"de facto\" power of a jury to nullify the law but upheld the denial of the defense's chance to instruct the jury about the power to nullify.\n\nIn 1988, the Sixth Circuit upheld a jury instruction: \"There is no such thing as valid jury nullification.\" In \"United States v. Thomas\" (1997), the Second Circuit ruled that jurors can be removed if there is evidence that they intend to nullify the law. The Supreme Court has not recently confronted the issue of jury nullification.\n\nIn 2017, the Ninth Circuit upheld the first three sentences of the jury's instruction and overruled the second half. The jury instructions were \"You cannot substitute your sense of justice, whatever that means, for your duty to follow the law, whether you agree with it or not. It is not for you to determine whether the law is just or whether the law is unjust. That cannot be your task. There is no such thing as valid jury nullification. You would violate your oath and the law if you willfully brought a verdict contrary to the law given to you in this case.\" However, they deemed this a harmless error and affirmed the conviction.\n\nIn 2002, South Dakota voters rejected by a 78% margin a state constitutional amendment to permit criminal defendants to argue for jury nullification.\n\nOn June 18, 2012, New Hampshire passed a law explicitly allowing defense attorneys to inform juries about jury nullification. On October 24, 2014, the New Hampshire Supreme Court effectively nullified the law, holding that the wording of the statute does not allow defense attorneys to tell juries they can \"nullify\" a law.\n\n\nOrganizations\n\nArticles and other works\n"}
{"id": "38568064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38568064", "title": "Karly's Law", "text": "Karly's Law\n\nKarly’s Law is a law that reformed child abuse investigation standards and procedures in the state of Oregon. Karly’s Law is named for a three-year-old girl, Karly Sheehan, who died as a result of child abuse and neglect in 2005.\n\nKarly's Law was first introduced as House Bill 3328 in 2007. It was created as a result of the death of Karly Sheehan in 2005. Karly was a three-year-old girl who died as a result of neglect and abuse from her mother's boyfriend. Her situation was brought to the attention of the Department of Health and Human Services as well as Law Enforcement, who interviewed Karly's mother, father and mother's significant other, and Karly twice and concluded that her injuries were not a result of child abuse.\n\nThe bill was proposed and sponsored by Rep Sara Gelser in 2007. It passed the Oregon House of Representatives unanimously on 30 April 2007, where it went on to the Oregon state Senate Human Services Committee. The Oregon Senate also passed the bill unanimously, and it was sent back to the House with minor clarifying amendments. The House passed these amendments, and Gov. Ted Kulongoski signed it into law.\n\nThe law mandates children with suspicious injuries during the course of an abuse investigation receive medical treatment within 48 hours. The Oregon Department of Human Services and trained medical providers are to assess the injuries. The law sets protocol and procedures if abuse is suspected.\n\nAfter Karly's law was passed, the quantity of children who have been assessed for abuse in the state of Oregon rose by 140%. This does not imply a rise in the child abuse rates in the State of Oregon, simply that the number of children being inspected for possible child abuse-related injuries has gone up. In 2009, Oregon had 67,885 total referrals for child abuse and neglect. Of those, 28,584 reports were referred for investigation. Prior to the passage of HR 3328 in 2007, these numbers were: 46,524 total referrals for child abuse and neglect, 23,529 were referred for investigation in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21507515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21507515", "title": "Law as integrity", "text": "Law as integrity\n\nIn philosophy of law, law as integrity is a theory of law put forward by the legal philosopher Ronald Dworkin. In general, it can be described as interpreting the law according to a community.\n\n"}
{"id": "50999717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50999717", "title": "List of formerly unidentified decedents", "text": "List of formerly unidentified decedents\n\nIn the many unidentified decedent cases in the world, there are several cases where the individual is eventually identified. Most bodies are provisionally identified within a matter of hours, with the formal identification following a few days, weeks, or months later. This list is for those bodies where that initial provisional identification failed for some reason. The majority of people in the list will be murder victims although it is not exclusive to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1524821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524821", "title": "Mandarin (bureaucrat)", "text": "Mandarin (bureaucrat)\n\nA mandarin (Chinese:  \"guān\") was a bureaucrat scholar in the government of imperial China, Korea and Vietnam.\n\nThe term is generally applied to the officials appointed through the imperial examination system; it sometimes includes and sometimes excludes the eunuchs also involved in the governance of the two realms.\n\nThe English term comes from the Portuguese \"mandarim\" (spelled in Old Portuguese as \"mandarin\" ). The Portuguese word was used in one of the earliest Portuguese reports about China: letters from the imprisoned survivors of the Tomé Pires' embassy, which were most likely written in 1524, and in Castanheda's \"História do descobrimento e conquista da Índia pelos portugueses\" (c. 1559). Matteo Ricci, who entered mainland China from Portuguese Macau in 1583, also said the Portuguese used the word.\n\nThe Portuguese word was thought by many to be related to \"mandador\" (\"one who commands\") and \"mandar\" (\"to command\"), from Latin \"mandare\". \nModern dictionaries, however, agree that it was in fact borrowed by Portuguese from the Malay , which ultimately came from the Sanskrit \"mantri\" (\"Devanagari: मंत्री\", meaning counselor or minister – etymologically linked to \"mantra\"). \nAccording to Malaysian Royal Professor Ungku Abdul Aziz, the term had its origin when the Portuguese living in Malacca during the Malacca Sultanate wanted to meet with the higher officials in China, and used the term \"menteri\", but with an added \"n\" due to their poor grasp of the language, to refer to higher officials.\n\nIn the 16th century, before the term \"mandarin\" became widespread in the European languages, the word \"Loutea\" (with various spelling variations) was often used in Europeans' travel reports to refer to Chinese scholar-officials. It is frequently used, for example, in Galeote Pereira's account of his experiences in China in 1548–1553, which was published in Europe in 1565, or (as \"Louthia\") in Gaspar da Cruz' \"Treatise of China\" (1569). As C.R. Boxer explains, the word comes from the Chinese 老爷 (Mandarin Pinyin: \"lǎoye\"; Amoy dialect: \"ló-tia\"; Quanzhou dialect: \"lāu-tia\"), which was commonly used by people in China to address officials. This is also the main term used to refer to the scholar-officials in Juan González de Mendoza's \"History of the great and mighty kingdom of China and the situation thereof\" (1585), which heavily drew (directly or indirectly) on Pereira's report and Gaspar da Cruz' book, and which was the Europeans' standard reference on China in the late 16th century.\n\nIn the West, the term \"mandarin\" is associated with the concept of the scholar-official, who immersed himself in poetry, literature, and Confucian learning in addition to performing civil service duties.\n\nThe speech standard of the Ming and Qing empires was called \"Mandarin language\" by European missionaries, translating the Chinese name \"Guanhua\" (\"the language of the officials\") for this speech standard, which was current already in the Ming Dynasty. The term \"Mandarin\" is also used to refer to modern Standard Chinese, which evolved out of the earlier standard, and to the broader group of Mandarin dialects spoken across northern and southwestern China.\n\nFrom 605 to 1905, mandarins were selected by merit through the extremely rigorous imperial examination.\n\nChina has had civil servants since at least the Zhou Dynasty. However, most high ranking positions were filled by relatives of the sovereign and the nobility. It was not until the Tang Dynasty when the final form of the mandarin was completed with the replacement of the nine-rank system. The mandarins were the founders and core of the Chinese gentry. A governmental office (for example, a central government department or a provincial civil governorate) headed by a mandarin is called a \"yamen\". The mandarins were replaced with a modern civil service after the fall of the Qing Dynasty. \n\nVietnam, after becoming free of Chinese rule and setting up its own independent monarchy, emulated the Chinese system of mandarins in its civil service. The last mandarins in history were in service of the State of Vietnam (1949-1955).\n\nThe Qing dynasty (1644–1912) divided the bureaucracy into civil and military positions, both having nine grades or ranks, each subdivided into primary and secondary categories. Civil appointments ranged from attendant to the emperor or a Grand Secretary in the Forbidden City (highest) to being a county magistrate, prefectural tax collector, deputy jail warden, deputy police commissioner or tax examiner. Military appointments ranged from being a field marshal or chamberlain of the imperial bodyguard to a third class sergeant, corporal or a first or second class private.\n\nIn the table below, \"\"n\"a\" is shorthand for the \"\"n\"th rank, primary\" (正\"n\"品), which is a higher sub-rank than \"\"n\"th rank, secondary\" (從\"n\"品), denoted as \"\"n\"b\" in the table.\n\nDuring the Qing dynasty, the governor of a Chinese province, was signified by wearing a mandarin hat-pin made of ruby. The lower ranks of mandarins were signified by hat-pins made of coral, sapphire, lapis lazuli, white jade, gold, and silver.\n\nIn modern English, \"mandarin\" is also used to refer to any (though usually a senior) civil servant, often in a satirical context, and particularly in the United Kingdom and Commonwealth countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "32744872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32744872", "title": "Mattias Kumm", "text": "Mattias Kumm\n\nMattias Kumm (b. August 15, 1967 in Bremen, Germany) is Inge Rennert Professor of Law at New York University School of Law, as well as holding a Research Professorship on \"Globalization and the Rule of Law\" at the Social Science Research Center (\"Wissenschaftszentrum Berlin für Sozialforschung, WZB\") and Humboldt University in Berlin.\n\nHe has taught and lectured at leading universities worldwide and was a Visiting Professor and John Harvey Gregory Lecturer on World Organization at Harvard Law School. Kumm holds a JSD from Harvard Law School and has pursued studies in law, philosophy and political sciences at the University of Kiel, Paris I Pantheon Sorbonne and Harvard University. Kumm is on the editorial board of several journals.\n\nKumm's research and teaching focuses on basic issues in Global, European and Comparative Public Law. His work emphasizes the analytical and normative connection between law, claims to legitimate authority and public reason and the institutional conditions under which such claims can be made plausible. He argues for the need to reconceive the liberal-democratic constitutional tradition in cosmopolitan and pluralist terms. Among his intellectual influences are Hans Kelsen, Robert Alexy, and Ronald Dworkin.\n\nProfessor Mattias Kumm lives and works in New York City and Berlin.\n"}
{"id": "55959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55959", "title": "Politician", "text": "Politician\n\nA politician is a person active in party politics, or a person holding or seeking office in government. In democratic countries, politicians seek elective positions within a government through elections or, at times, temporary appointment to replace politicians who have died, resigned or have been otherwise removed from office. In non-democratic countries, they employ other means of reaching power through appointment, bribery, revolutions and intrigues. Some politicians are experienced in the art or science of government. Politicians propose, support and create laws or policies that govern the land and, by extension, its people. Broadly speaking, a \"politician\" can be anyone who seeks to achieve political power in any bureaucratic institution.\n\nPoliticians are people who are politically active, especially in party politics. Positions range from local offices to executive, legislative, and judicial offices of regional and national governments. Some elected law enforcement officers, such as sheriffs, are considered politicians.\n\nPoliticians are known for their rhetoric, as in speeches or campaign advertisements. They are especially known for using common themes that allow them to develop their political positions in terms familiar to the voters. Politicians of necessity become expert users of the media. Politicians in the 19th century made heavy use of newspapers, magazines, and pamphlets, as well as posters. In the 20th century, they branched into radio and television, making television commercials the single most expensive part of an election campaign. In the 21st century, they have become increasingly involved with the social media based on the Internet and smart phones.\n\nRumor has always played a major role in politics, with negative rumors about an opponent typically more effective than positive rumors about one's own side.\n\nOnce elected, the politician becomes a government official and has to deal with a permanent bureaucracy of non-politicians. Historically, there has been a subtle conflict between the long-term goals of each side. In patronage-based systems, such as the United States and Canada in the 19th century, winning politicians replace the bureaucracy with local politicians who formed their base of support, the \"spoils system\". Civil service reform was initiated to eliminate the corruption of government services that were involved. However, in many less developed countries, the spoils system is in full-scale operation today.\n\nMattozzi and Merlo argue that there are two main career paths which are typically followed by politicians in modern democracies. First come the career politicians. They are politicians who work in the political sector until retirement. Second are the \"political careerists\". These are politicians who gain reputation for expertise in controlling certain bureaucracies, then leave politics for a well-paid career in the private sector making use of their political contacts.\n\nNumerous scholars have studied the characteristics of politicians, comparing those at the local and national levels, and comparing the more liberal or the more conservative ones, and comparing the more successful and less successful in terms of elections. In recent years, special attention has focused on the distinctive career path of women politicians. For example, there are studies of the \"Supermadre\" model in Latin American politics.\n\nMany politicians have the knack to remember thousands of names and faces and recall personal anecdotes about their constituents—it is an advantage in the job, rather like being seven-foot tall for a basketball player. United States Presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton were renowned for their memories.\n\nMany critics attack politicians for being out of touch with the public. Areas of friction include the manner in which politicians speak, which has been described as being overly formal and filled with many euphemistic and metaphorical expressions and commonly perceived as an attempt to \"obscure, mislead, and confuse\".\n\nIn the popular image, politicians are thought of as clueless, selfish, incompetent and corrupt, taking money in exchange for goods or services, rather than working for the general public good. Politicians in many countries are regarded as the \"most hated professionals\".\n\nMany ex-politicians who could not bear the leadership in politics that causes reprisals for critical thought criticize those who remain politicians for lacking critical thought.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38328424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38328424", "title": "Recap (software)", "text": "Recap (software)\n\nRECAP is software which allows users to automatically search for free copies of documents during a search in the fee-based online U.S. federal court document database PACER (Public Access to Court Electronic Records), and to help build up a free alternative database. It was created in 2009 by a team from Princeton University's Center for Information Technology Policy and Harvard University's Berkman Center, and is now maintained as part of the Free Law Project. The name \"RECAP\" derives from \"PACER\", spelled backward.\n\nRECAP is available as a Mozilla Firefox add-on and Google Chrome extension: free.law/recap. For each PACER document, the software will first check if it has already been uploaded by another user. If no free version exists and the user purchases the document from PACER, it will automatically upload a copy to the RECAP server, thereby building the database. The original RECAP implementation uploaded documents to the Internet Archive; as of late 2017, the Free Law Project version now uploads documents to the Free Law Project (specifically courtlistener.com), with a promise to mirror that data to the Internet Archive on a quarterly basis.\n\nPACER continued charging per page fees after the introduction of RECAP.\n\nAfter the introduction of RECAP, activist Aaron Swartz set up an automatic download from an official library entry point to PACER. Swartz downloaded 2.7 million documents, all public domain, representing less than 1 percent of the documents in PACER. These public domain documents were later uploaded to RECAP and made available to the public for free. However, the automated downloading triggered a government investigation. No criminal charges were filed, because PACER had provided lawful access and the documents copied were in the public domain, and the case was closed. \n\nSome courts have acknowledged RECAP's free distribution of documents. A small handful of PACER users receive fee-exempt access (fee waivers are granted on a district-by-district basis), and a condition of the fee waiver generally requires that fee exempt users not further distribute documents they receive under the waiver, pursuant to Judicial Conference policy. Some courts such as the District Court for the District of Massachusetts display a prominent reminder on the ECF home page: \"fee exempt PACER users must refrain from the use of RECAP\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4431048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4431048", "title": "RedFox", "text": "RedFox\n\nRedFox (formerly SlySoft) is a software development company based in Belize. The company is most prominently known for its software AnyDVD, which can be used to bypass copy protection measures on optical media, including DVD and Blu-ray Disc media, as well as CloneCD, which is used to back up the contents of optical discs.\n\nThe company formerly operated as the St. John's, Antigua and Barbuda-based SlySoft. At some point in February 2016, SlySoft shut down, with its home page replaced by a message citing \"recent regulatory requirements\". On or around February 16, 2016, AACS LA had requested that the Office of the United States Trade Representative place Antigua and Barbuda on its Priority Watch List of countries that fail to prevent intellectual property violations, with specific reference to SlySoft. However, the company's online forum remained online, and had replaced the brand SlySoft with \"RedFox\". SlySoft developers also revealed that none of the company's staff were actually based in Antigua, that the company was not involved in legal settlements from AACS LA, and that key staff members still had access to SlySoft's technical infrastructure—including build systems and licensing servers—feasibly allowing development of AnyDVD to continue.\n\nOn 2 March 2016, SlySoft reformed as RedFox, under a top-level domain based in Belize, and released a new version of AnyDVD.\n\n\nSome products are now supported by Elaborate Bytes such as Clone DVD and Virtual CloneDrive.\n\nSlySoft was the first to offer AACS circumvention that worked for any disc available; previous programs only cracked \"compatible\" discs using a database of known keys.\n\nOn 8 November 2007, SlySoft claimed to have completely cracked BD+. However, this turned out to be incorrect, as subsequent versions of BD+ security code have caused SlySoft to re-design its software. On 3 March 2008, SlySoft updated AnyDVD HD allowing the full decryption of BD+, allowing for not only the viewing of the film itself but also playing and copying disks with third-party software. A third iteration of BD+ was released in November 2008, and was announced to be cracked by SlySoft with the release of AnyDVD HD 6.5.0.2 on 29 December 2008. A fourth version of BD+ security code was discovered with the movie \"Australia\" on 17 February 2009, thwarting the effectiveness of SlySoft's software.\n\nHowever, on 19 March 2009, SlySoft updated AnyDVD HD to version 6.5.3.1 which allowed the decryption of the new version of BD+ used by \"Australia\".\n\nOn 1 December 2008 SlySoft announced it would for the first time begin charging its customers for updates to its software.\n\nIn November 2010, SlySoft initially announced the discontinuation of the lifetime licensing option beginning January 2011. An e-mail announcing the change ahead of time was sent to all registered customers allowing everyone the chance to purchase the lifetime option \"while it is still possible;\" and the notice was posted to their official forums. In January 2011, all announcements regarding the change were deleted without comment and a new structured licensing plan was put into place; including the lifetime licensing option at the highest priced tier. SlySoft was able to balance the internal cost matter and the licensing strategy in such a way as to allow continuation of the \"lifetime\" license option. The 'update service' will only allow updates with a valid license and users are warned if they attempt to install an update beyond the license expiry date. If the user cancels the update the current paid-up license will continue to work. If the user continues then a \"renewal\" is required.\n\nFollowing the collapse of Slysoft, holders of a SlySoft AnyDVD/AnyDVD HD Lifetime License are required to purchase a new license for use with the RedFox software beginning with Version 8.0.2.0. Version 7.6.9.5 will be able to use the prior license interminably, however it will not have access to updates for the latest decryption of copy-protection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48108635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48108635", "title": "Refuge Water Supply Program", "text": "Refuge Water Supply Program\n\nThe Refuge Water Supply Program (RWSP) is administered by the United States Department of the Interior jointly by the Bureau of Reclamation and Fish and Wildlife Service and tasked with acquiring a portion and delivering a total of 555,515 acre feet (AF) of water annually to 19 specific protected wetland areas in the Central Valley of California as mandated with the passing of the Central Valley Project Improvement Act signed on October 30, 1992 by President George H. W. Bush.\n\nThe Central Valley (California) once contained over 4 million acres of naturally occurring wetlands that provided habitat: land, food, and shelter for resident and migratory birds and wildlife. The Central Valley, historically and today, constitutes a significant portion of the Pacific Flyway used by millions of migrating birds each year.\n\nThe Central Valley's winter flood-prone geography and summer dry climate were natural constraints to permanent human settlement. The Central Valley Project (CVP); an interconnected engineered system of reservoirs, aqueducts and flood control measures, constructed by the US Bureau of Reclamation; managed flooding and provided reliable water supplies year-round with highly managed and calculated water storage, release and conveyance infrastructure. Along with the construction of similar facilities by others, the CVP's flood control and water delivery systems created a stable environment suitable for permanent human development in the Central Valley.\n\nControlling and manipulating the water supply for human benefit dramatically and quickly transformed the landscape. All but 400,000 acres of natural wetlands were transformed for development, a reduction in wetland area of 90%. The loss of wetlands concentrated the migrating and resident wildlife on less land and required their sharing of and dependence on less water. This unhealthy crowding caused bird populations to decline as they suffered from disease and the lack of necessary food, shelter, and water. Compounding the problem, human activity, in some cases, polluted the waters that flowed into the remaining wetlands. The Kesterson Reservoir disaster provided a clear indication that wildlife was suffering in the modified Central Valley and helped inspire actions to mitigate for the CVP's effects to bird and fish populations.\n\nThe Central Valley Project Improvement Act (CVPIA) was signed into law on October 30, 1992 as mitigation and remedy for some of the CVP's adverse environmental effects, specifically, to increase the population and improve the health of the Central Valley's anadromous fish and increase the acreage and health of wetlands used by migratory birds and other resident wildlife. The CVPIA is managed by the United States Department of Interior through collaboration between the Bureau of Reclamation and the Fish and Wildlife Service.\n\nCVPIA Section 3406(d) mandates that 555,515 AF of water of suitable quality be delivered to maintain and improve wetland habitat areas in 19 wetland areas specifically identified in the \"Report on Refuge Water Supply Investigations (March 1989)\" and the \"San Joaquin Basin Action Plan/Kesterson Mitigation Action Plan (December 1989)\", collectively referred to as 'the Refuges'. These Refuges comprise nearly 200,000 acres of wetlands and as such represent almost 50% of the wetlands remaining in California's Central Valley. Reclamation created the Refuge Water Supply Program (RWSP) to manage and administer the activities necessary to ensure the acquisition and delivery of this water as required under this section. Like the CVPIA, the RWSP is administered jointly by the Bureau of Reclamation (from the Mid-Pacific Regional Office in Sacramento, CA) and the Fish and Wildlife Service (from the Pacific Southwest Regional Office in Sacramento, CA)\n\nThe following Refuges, benefiting from CVPIA legislation, are administered by the Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service as National Wildlife Refuges. In some instances the specific Refuge named in the CVPIA is currently a constituent part of a FWS administrative complex of refuges that includes several such refuges and/or other non-benefiting lands.\n\nThe following CVPIA benefiting refuges are components of the Sacramento National Wildlife Refuge Complex: Sacramento National Wildlife Refuge, Delevan National Wildlife Refuge, Colusa National Wildlife Refuge, Sutter National Wildlife Refuge.\n\nThe following CVPIA benefiting Refuges are components of the San Luis National Wildlife Refuge Complex: San Luis Unit, West Bear Creek Unit, East Bear Creek Unit, Kesterson Unit, Freitas Unit and Merced National Wildlife Refuge. The refuges currently identified as 'Units' were separate refuges at the time the legislation was written and passed.\n\nThe following CVPIA benefiting Refuges are components of the Kern National Wildlife Refuge Complex: Kern National Wildlife Refuge and Pixley National Wildlife Refuge\n\nThe following Refuges, benefiting from CVPIA legislation, are administered by the State of California, Department of Fish and Wildlife as Wildlife Areas. In some instances the specific Refuge named in the CVPIA is currently a part of a DFW administrative unit that includes several such refuges and/or other non-benefiting lands.\n\nGray Lodge Wildlife Area; Los Banos Wildlife Area (portion); the following currently designated 'units' of the North Grasslands Wildlife Area, China Island Unit and Salt Slough Unit; and the Volta Wildlife Area (portion). Note: 'portion', is used to indicate that the current existing wildlife area boundary is larger than it was in the defining report. CVP water obligated for the RWSP is only permitted to be used on that portion of the wildlife area specifically described in the defining report and legislation.\n\nThe Grassland Resource Conservation District (GRCD) comprises 75,000 acres of land including: the Grassland Water District (GWD) which provides water to 165 hunting clubs; the Kesterson and Freitas Units of the San Luis National wildlife Refuge (NWR); Volta Wildlife Management Area (WMA); Los Banos WMA; and privately owned wetlands. As such, the GRCD includes 60,000 acres of privately owned hunting clubs, 12,000 acres of land owned by the Federal and state governments, and 3,000 acres of cropland. The federal and state Refuges identified in the CVPIA legislation that are within the GRCD do not share GRCD's water allocation. \n\nThe water associated with the program is either categorized as Level 2 or Incremental Level 4 and there are different supply quantities and characteristics of each. The goal of the program is to provide the 'Full Level 4' water quantity which is the cumulative sum of the full quantity of each category for each Refuge. Program-wide, typically between 75% and 85% of Full Level 4 is delivered annually.\n\nThe water the RWSP provides accounts for varying portions of an individual Refuge's total water supply. Because some Refuges do not have adequate conveyance capacity to them (Pixley NWR, Merced NWR, Sutter NWR, East Bear Creek Unit and Gray Lodge WA) delivered water supplies vary annually with hydrological and climactic conditions. Construction projects enabling these Refuges to receive water supplies have been identified and in some cases are progressing but funding limitations will likely cause this condition to persist.\n\nThe amount of water identified as being required for the optimal management of a designated wetland is defined as that refuge's 'Full Level 4' quantity. The 555,515AF of water the RWSP is tasked with providing is the sum of all of the specified refuges' Full Level 4 quantities. Full Level 4 is a contractually obligated amount of water that consists of 2 blocks, Level 2 and Incremental Level 4. Each refuge has a 'Full Level 4' quantity which is the sum of its total Level 2, and total Incremental Level 4 quantity of water. These amounts are provided in the table \"RWSP Contract Water Quantities\".\n\nEach of the 19 benefiting Refuges has its own Level 2 water quantity which is based on the average water supplies necessary to maintain the wetland areas in existence prior to the passing of the CVPIA or equate to its prior dependably delivered quantity (regardless of water quality) and collectively totals 422,251 AF. For this reason the delivery of a Refuge's Level 2 allocation is considered to be essential for a Refuge's successful operation.\n\nFor those refuges that have the infrastructure to receive it, Level 2 water comes from the CVP, meaning a fixed portion of the federal water supply stored and delivered by the CVP Project is automatically dedicated annually for Refuge use and thus provides a perennially reliable water source. The RWSP manages and funds several long-term contracts (5 – 40 years) with a variety of water agencies to convey this water from its CVP source to a Refuges' boundaries.\n\nIt is important to note that the individual Refuges determine the amount of this water to be delivered, per month, at their discretion. This is a unique condition because most CVP water contracts impose limitations on both the total monthly delivery amount and the months in which deliveries may occur.\n\nThe incremental difference between the Refuges' Full Level 4 allocation and its Level 2 allocation defines Incremental Level 4 (IL4) and represents the quantity of water necessary for Refuges to ideally manage all lands identified in the refuge reports for the benefit of waterfowl. In most cases IL4 water is needed to fully support an expanded wetland footprint. Like Level 2 water, each refuge has its own Incremental Level 4 quantity but unlike Level 2 supplies, this water is not dedicated from CVP supply and must be acquired from other sources, such as willing sellers or from those relinquishing their federal or state supplies. The RWSP manages and funds contracts of varied duration to acquire and convey this water from its source to the refuges' boundaries. The suppliers, availability and cost of water available as Incremental Level 4 is less predictable than Level 2 supplies because of unpredictable region-wide water needs and usage; the potential lack of sufficient conveyance infrastructure; inconsistent annual natural conditions, specifically rainfall; and occasional water quality concerns.\n\nAdditionally, Individual refuges retain the right to refuse to accept water that the RWSP has the ability to acquire if it is not of suitable quality or does not benefit the refuge at the time it is available. Thus, water supplied delivered in a year may be less than those that were potentilly available.\n\nThe RWSP's efforts are concentrated into 3 components, Water Acquisition, Facility Construction and Water Conveyance.\n\nCVPIA Section 3406(d)(2) requires the acquisition of IL4 Water for critical wetland habitat supporting resident and migratory waterfowl, threatened and endangered species, and wetland dependent aquatic biota on the Refuges. These supplies are ideally used to allow refuges to optimally manage the preserved land for the improvement of waterfowl populations.\n\nIL4 water consists of long-term and annual purchases from willing sellers of both surface and groundwater supplies; supplies at no cost, e.g., water exchanges; water delivered under a mitigation agreement with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and 'permanent water', water that the program has purchased a permanent right to take under specific conditions.\n\nCalifornia, and the Central Valley, experienced persistent drought conditions for much of the early part of the twenty first century. With global warming expected alter historic conditions the long-term availability oh IL4 supplies is questionable. To meet its acquisition and delivery mandate the RWSP was challenged to find reliable and affordable sources for Incremental 4 water to deliver to the refuges well into this uncertain future. The North Valley Regional Recycled Water Program will make treated, recycled water from the Cities of Turlock and Modesto available for re-use at the Refuges. The RWSP took an active role in this pioneering program's development and in return, in 2016, signed a 40-year contract for water deliveries from it.\n\nCVPIA Section 3406(d)(5) provides for facilities construction to benefit the mandate of supplying refuge water. This component funds projects that identify, construct and/or maintain infrastructure projects supporting the long-term delivery of firm, reliable water supplies to the boundary of the Refuges. The RWSP's goal is to have the necessary facilities in place allowing for the delivery of Full L4 water supplies to the Refuges that meet their timing and scheduling requirements. A total of 46 new or modifications to major structures and/or actions were identified to provide needed capacity for the delivery of Full Level 4 surface supplies to these refuges.\n\nCVPIA Sections 3406(d)(1),(2) and (5) of the CVPIA describe the functions and responsibilities of the Refuge Water Conveyance (Wheeling) Component. The use of a water conveyance facility by someone other than the owner or operator to transport water is referred to as \"wheeling.\" The conveyance component is responsible for ensuring the delivery of a refuge's level 2 and acquired water supplies through contracts and agreements that allow for these water supplies to move from source to refuge destination.\n\nThe reservoirs that hold water destined for a refuge are connected to the refuges by a network of channels, owned and operated by multiple entities. Similar to a network of roadways there are conveyance channels of many kinds (with names like: aqueduct, canal, slough and ditch) and sizes. Some channels are free to use by the RWSP, like rivers, and some require payment, such as those built and maintained by a water district. The RWSP negotiated contracts coordinating the delivery of water. Reclamation currently has nine long-term (15–50 years) conveyance agreements that are administered by the RWSP, one Service 40-year conveyance agreement, cooperative agreements to reimburse delivering entities for costs of conveying L2 and IL4 water supplies through federal, state, and private water distribution systems to the refuges and agreements to reimburse costs for groundwater pumping in instances where groundwater is pumped at the refuge itself. Deliveries are monitored throughout the system as water enters and exits metered channels.\n\nWater that is transferred any distance suffers what are termed 'conveyance losses' which means that the amount of water released at the start is not the same amount that ultimately arrives. The difference between what is sent versus what is received are conveyance losses and can be the result of evaporation or seepage (soaking into the land). In some cases water travels over 300 miles to reach its final refuge destination.\n\nThe CVPIA was enacted to increase the population and improve the health of the Central Valley's anadromous fish and increase the acreage and health of wetlands used by migratory birds and other resident wildlife both of which suffered as a result of the construction of the CVP. The RWSP focuses on the health of wetlands by acquiring and conveying necessary water supplies. Since CVPIA was enacted numerous biological benefits have resulted from supplying the Refuges with a reliable year-round water supply that adequately meets the refuge-specific water delivery schedules developed for individual wetland management requirements. Prior to CVPIA, refuge managers had to concentrate the majority of their water use in the fall and early winter months, when Central Valley waterfowl numbers peaked. With the passage of CVPIA, the habitat calendar was expanded to the full year. These increased and reliable supplies of water enable managers to enhance existing habitats, expand their wetland base, and provide increased benefits to a greater number of wetland-dependent species.\n\nRefuge activities are water dependent. Having a firm and adequate supply of water available when most beneficial throughout the year enables managers to implement improved management techniques and allows them to better manage lands and activities. This increased efficiency and reliability has both increased wetland acreage and improved wetland health by affording refuge managers with the ability to manage a diverse mix of habitat types that more fully satisfied year-round environmental requirements of many wildlife species. \nBefore the CVPIA, refuge managers concentrated the majority of water use in fall and early winter months (October - December), when Central Valley waterfowl numbers peaked. With the passage of CVPIA, the habitat calendar was expanded to the full year, allowing refuge managers' the ability to provide habitat to an extended group of migratory birds as well as other wildlife and grow plant materials that provide a food supply or habitat for food sources. Under CVPIA programs, moist soil food plant irrigations are carried out since water is reliably available during August and September to satisfy the needs of the early arriving migrant waterfowl and shorebirds, maintenance flows are applied throughout the winter months to improve water quality and decrease avian disease outbreaks, and during spring and summer, when wetland habitat can be particularly limited by hydrology, water provides critical nesting habitat for waterfowl and colonial birds as well as habitat for resident wildlife and their young. Wintering wildlife also benefit from this habitat diversity, as seasonal wetlands are now managed to coincide with peak migration times of shorebirds and waterfowl.\n\nWith the increased frequency and acreage of irrigated moist soil food plants there has been a doubling in desirable plant biomass, which equates to more high-quality, high energy food available to waterfowl. In some refuges waterfowl food production has increased tenfold. Timely de-watering and irrigation promote the germination and irrigation of important moist-soil food plants, such as swamp timothy and watergrass. These plants provide a high-energy food source through both their seeds and associated invertebrate communities. The increase in supply reliability allows wetland managers to lower water depths to make seeds and invertebrates available without the fear of having wetlands completely evaporate.\n\nWaterfowl, shorebirds and other wetland-dependent wildlife have benefited as their habitats have been expanded and enhanced. Central Valley wetlands receiving CVP water supplies have increased by more than 20,000 acres since the passage of the CVPIA while tens of thousands of acres of habitat have been enhanced. This wetland acreage helps explain the 75% decrease in waterfowl disease-related mortality in some wetland areas as the birds spread out over a greater area.\n\nAt least as important as the increase in acreage, improvement in the quality of previously existing wetlands that has resulted from the delivery of suitable water. Increasing water supplies to wetlands also has the effect of improving water quality, both on and off refuges. For example, providing firm, quality water supplies has reduced the exposure of waterfowl and shore birds spending the winter in the Grasslands area of the valley to contaminents. In a report on selenium in aquatic birds from the Central Valley, 1986-1994, FWS scientists noted that application of freshwater resulted in the decline of selenium contamination. Improved maintenance water flows through refuge ponds to improve water quality and reduce avian disease. The ability to battle avian disease outbreaks, such as botulism and cholera, is greatly assisted by applying additional water and creating a \"flow through\" system of water delivery and drainage. This \"flow through\" also helps deal with wetland areas high in salinity, which are often lower in productivity and diversity. CVPIA water allows wetland managers to \"flush\" salts from wetland basins and improve soil quality.\n\nSince the passage of the CVPIA, Sacramento Valley areas receiving CVP water have seen a 20% increase in waterfowl use and a significant decline in water-borne wildlife diseases. Waterfowl use in the early fall have recorded increases of 800 percent, from 2 million to over 18 million waterfowl use days per year.\n\nWhite-faced ibis and sandhill cranes are excellent examples of how the availability of adequate water supplies enabled refuge managers to provide habitat for endemic species that had been in severe decline for decades. Improved water supplies first led to an increase in the numbers of frogs, snails, aquatic insects, and small fish. This, in turn, provided the ibis and cranes with habitat for late-spring and summer nesting, essential components for these species. The increased and improved breeding habitat resulted in a steady upswing in bird numbers.\n\nThis, in turn, provided the ibis and cranes with habitat for late-spring and summer nesting, essential components for these species. The increased and improved breeding habitat resulted in a steady upswing in bird numbers.\nWetlands are diverse ecosystems. The increased wetland acreage and improved water quality has benefited more than bird populations. Improved water supplies led to an increase in the numbers of frogs, snails, aquatic insects, and small fish. Habitat that is now available during the months of August and early September is utilized by resident wildlife and their young during a critical time of the year when wetland habitat is otherwise reduced. Introducing water for semi-permanent and permanent wetland habitat in the spring and summer directly benefits the recovery of special status species such as the giant garter snake and tri-colored blackbirds. \n\nThe CVPIA is a federal program and receives funding every year through Congressional appropriation. It would require between $50 - $60 Million annually to achieve the goals of the RWSP. The most recent budget (FY 2017) provided approximately $22 Million.\n\nCalifornia Department of Fish and Wildlife\n\nThe Central Valley Joint Venture\n"}
{"id": "39837580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39837580", "title": "Renunciation Act of 1944", "text": "Renunciation Act of 1944\n\nThe Renunciation Act of 1944 (Public Law 78-405, ) was an act of the 78th Congress regarding the renunciation of United States citizenship. Prior to the law's passage, it was not possible to lose U.S. citizenship while in U.S. territory except by conviction for treason; the Renunciation Act allowed people physically present in the U.S. to renounce citizenship when the country was in a state of war by making an application to the Attorney General. The intention of the 1944 Act was to encourage Japanese American internees to renounce citizenship so that they could be deported to Japan.\n\nAfter the end of World War II, those who wanted their U.S. citizenship restored were generally successful at arguing before federal courts that their renunciations pursuant to the 1944 Act had been made under duress and were therefore invalid. The law remained in effect but received little further attention until the 2000s, when a prisoner interested in renouncing U.S. citizenship won a ruling from a federal court that the U.S. was indeed in a \"state of war\" at the time for purposes of the 1944 Act. Other prisoners sought to renounce citizenship under the 1944 Act but could not fulfill an administrative requirement that they appear in person at a United States Citizenship and Immigration Services office for an interview — a requirement whose legality was upheld twice by federal courts — or that they depart from the United States immediately after having their renunciation application approved. A 2013 immigration reform bill contained provisions to repeal the 1944 Act.\n\nThe Renunciation Act of 1944 has no official short title; its long title was \"A bill to provide for the loss of United States nationality under certain circumstances\". Another unofficial name for it is the Denationalization Act of 1944. It is also officially referred to as the Act of July 1, 1944, a name it shares with the Public Health Service Act. It added the following item to the list of actions in Nationality Act of 1940 § 401 () which would result in loss of nationality by a United States citizen or non-citizen national:\n\nDue to immigration law reforms and the removal of other items from the list of actions causing loss of nationality, the exact subsection number of this provision has changed over the years. It appeared in the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 at § 349(a)(7). The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 did not alter § 349 at all. It currently stands at INA § 349(a)(6) ().\n\nUnder the Nationality Act of 1940 as it stood originally, renunciation of citizenship could only be performed before a United States diplomatic officer overseas. In December 1943, Martin Dies, Jr. (D-TX) asked Attorney General Francis Biddle to appear before the House Un-American Activities Committee to testify on the handling of internees seeking to depart from the United States for Japan; Biddle recommended amending the 1940 Act to permit loss of nationality by persons on U.S. soil. Biddle and the Department of Justice drafted a bill to that effect and were significantly involved in efforts to lobby Congress for support. Edward Ennis of the Department of Justice estimated that between one and three thousand Japanese Americans would renounce citizenship under the law's provisions. Ennis saw the bill as crucial to the DOJ's efforts to retain custody of Japanese Americans suspected of disloyalty; he feared that the courts would find continued internment of U.S. citizens to be unconstitutional, and hoped that \"militants\" among Japanese American internees would voluntarily renounce citizenship under the bill's provisions, in which case the DOJ could continue to detain them until they could be deported to Japan. A. Leonard Allen (D-LA) introduced the bill on February 1, 1944. It was referred to the House Committee on Immigration and Naturalization, which unanimously reported the bill two days later.\n\nAllen first spoke about the bill on the House floor on February 8; he described it as \"a bill to expatriate certain Japanese nationals ... who have openly avowed their disloyalty to the United States and have disclaimed loyalty to the United States, although they were born in this country\". There was further debate on the bill on February 16. A number of West Coast representatives criticized it as insufficiently far-reaching for its failure to consider alleged renunciations of citizenship prior to the bill's enactment. J. Leroy Johnson (R-CA) thus moved an amendment to the bill to allow the Attorney General to consider all statements of renunciation of citizenship as far back as October 1940. In support, Clair Engle (D-CA) pointed to the refusal of 5,376 internees to \"swear unqualified allegiance to the United States and renounce Japan\" as an example of the type of alleged renunciations of citizenship which the original bill failed to consider, while Bertrand W. Gearhart (R-CA) noted that many internees who had earlier expressed enthusiasm for Japan were less vocal due to the defeats the country had suffered in battle and urged that their statements not go unpunished. The previous week, Gearhart had also introduced a bill which would strip Japanese Americans of citizenship unless they swore an oath of allegiance to the United States in a court of naturalization within 60 days after the date of his bill's passage rejecting the divinity of the Emperor of Japan and the \"divine mission\" of the \"Yamato race\". He stated that \"I am convinced that the method I propose, constitutional in all of its aspects, will reveal a large number of Japanese who are earnestly hoping for our defeat, secretly doing everything they can to insure a victory for our despicable foes.\"\n\nHowever, Samuel Dickstein (D-NY), chairman of the House immigration committee, opposed Johnson's amendment, stating that Congress had no authority to revoke the citizenship of birthright citizens. Earl C. Michener (R-MI) warned of the potential for abuse, saying that \"if the amendment were adopted, it would mean that anybody who at any time said anything which might be construed as unpatriotic could be brought in.\" Bill sponsor A. Leonard Allen (D-LA) and Richard F. Harless (D-AZ) also spoke out against the amendment, sympathizing with the motivations of the amendment's proponents while stating that it was probably unconstitutional. In the end, Johnson's amendment was defeated by a narrow margin.\n\nThe bill itself in its original form passed the House on February 23. The Senate Committee on Immigration reported the bill without amendment on June 22. Rufus C. Holman (R-OR) initially objected, suggesting that the bill should be amended to insert the word \"voluntarily\", but Wallace H. White, Jr. (R-ME) pointed out to him that the Nationality Act of 1940 already required that any action specified as causing loss of nationality would only have that effect if it were undertaken voluntarily, and Holman withdrew his objection. White brought the bill up for consideration on June 23, stating that \"[t]he reason I have asked to have the bill considered at this time is that we are hopeful that a number of Japanese will take advantage of the procedure outlined in the bill so that we may offer them to the Imperial Government of Japan in exchange for American citizens who are now being held\", and the bill passed that day. After the bill passed the Senate, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed it into law on July 1.\n\nBiddle and the Department of Justice began implementing procedures under the Act in October 1944. Each internee seeking to renounce citizenship would have to fill out a standard application form identifying him or herself and signing a statement that \"I fully understand that if permitted to renounce my United States nationality I will divest myself of all rights and privileges thereunto pertaining\". This application would be followed by an administrative hearing to determine whether or not Biddle should grant approval in his capacity as Attorney General. Each renunciant whose application was successful would receive a \"Notice of Approval of Renunciation\" as proof.\n\nMany renunciants would later face stigmatization in the Japanese American community, during and after the war, for having made that choice, although at the time they were not certain what their futures held were they to remain American and remain interned. These renunciations of American citizenship have been highly controversial, for a number of reasons. Some apologists for internment have cited the renunciations as evidence that \"disloyalty\" or anti-Americanism was well represented among the interned peoples, thereby justifying the internment. Many historians have dismissed the latter argument, for its failure to consider that the small number of individuals in question were in the midst of persecution by their own government at the time of the \"renunciation\":\n\n[T]he renunciations had little to do with \"loyalty\" or \"disloyalty\" to the United States, but were instead the result of a series of complex conditions and factors that were beyond the control of those involved. Prior to discarding citizenship, most or all of the renunciants had experienced the following misfortunes: forced removal from homes; loss of jobs; government and public assumption of disloyalty to the land of their birth based on race alone; and incarceration in a \"segregation center\" for \"disloyal\" ISSEI or NISEI...\n\nMinoru Kiyota, who was among those who renounced his citizenship and swiftly came to regret the decision, has stated that he wanted only \"to express my fury toward the government of the United States,\" for his internment and for the mental and physical duress, as well as the intimidation, he was made to face.\n\n[M]y renunciation had been an expression of momentary emotional defiance in reaction to years of persecution suffered by myself and other Japanese Americans and, in particular, to the degrading interrogation by the FBI agent at Topaz and being terrorized by the guards and gangs at Tule Lake.\n\nSan Francisco attorney Wayne M. Collins helped many people who had renounced citizenship under the provisions of the 1944 Act to have the government's recognition of their renunciations reversed. On Independence Day in 1967, the Department of Justice promulgated regulations which would make it unnecessary for renunciants to resort to the courts; they could instead fill out a standard form to request an administrative determination of the validity of their earlier renunciations. However, not all renunciants sought to regain their citizenship; Joseph Kurihara, for example, chose instead to accept repatriation to Japan, and lived out the rest of his life there.\n\nLater case law on the Renunciation Act of 1944 focused on the meaning of the term \"state of war\". Congress passed a joint resolution that July 25, 1947 \"shall be deemed to be the date of the termination of any state of war heretofore declared by the Congress and of the national emergencies proclaimed by the President on September 8, 1939, and on May 27, 1941\" in the interpretation of a large number of statutes, including the Renunciation Act of 1944.\n\nThe executive branch interpreted \"state of war\" to exclude the Vietnam War. The Immigration and Naturalization Service wrote that \"It has also been determined that, for purposes of current section 349(a)(7), the United States has not been in a state war during the period of the Viet Nam hostilities, and is not now in a state of war by reason of that conflict. Accordingly, any attempt to renounce citizenship within the United States under the current provision, based upon the Viet Nam conflict, should be regarded as ineffectual.\" In an \"obiter dictum\" in a 1970 Board of Immigration Appeals decision on the deportation case against Thomas Jolley, a North Carolina man who renounced U.S. citizenship in Toronto but later returned to the United States, Anthony Montaquila noted that \"[t]he Immigration and Naturalization Service receives communications from persons in the United States imprisoned for crime who wish to renounce their citizenship, and those who wish to avoid military service. ... However, there are no procedures in the present laws as was the case involving Japanese renunciants during World War II.\"\n\nIn 2004, James Kaufman, a Wisconsin prisoner, attempted to use the Renunciation Act of 1944 to renounce his U.S. citizenship. When his application was ignored, he filed a \"pro se\" suit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, which ruled against him. Kaufman's legal battles would go on for several years, and in 2008 he made another attempt to renounce his citizenship under the same law. He appealed to the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, where Judges Judith W. Rogers, A. Raymond Randolph and Harry T. Edwards remanded Kaufman's case to the District Court for another hearing, writing that \"we do not understand the government to suggest that a congressionally created right can be nullified by government inaction\". In 2010, Judge Richard W. Roberts ruled that the U.S. was indeed in a state of war in both 2004 and 2008, rejecting assertions by the Department of Justice that the law was ambiguous and that the DOJ should be permitted to interpret the term \"state of war\" as it saw fit in administering the statute. The DOJ appealed Roberts' ruling to the D.C. Circuit Court. However, attorneys for the Department of Justice abandoned the appeal in August 2010, while declining to make public comment on their reasons for that decision.\n\nIn various instances in 2011, other U.S. citizens serving prison sentences enquired with United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) about renouncing their U.S. citizenship under the Renunciation Act of 1944. USCIS responded that they would have to appear in person at a designated USCIS office for an interview, a requirement which they could not fulfill due to their imprisonment, and that until the interview USCIS would hold their applications in abeyance. Two filed separate suits in the District Court for the District of Columbia.\n\nOne \"pro se\" case, \"Sluss v. United States Citizenship and Immigration Services\", came before Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle in 2012. Plaintiff Matthew David Sluss argued that the requirement to appear at a USCIS office in person violated the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) because that requirement did not appear anywhere in the text of the Renunciation Act of 1944. Huvelle disagreed, writing in her memorandum opinion that \"the statute requires the agency to assess the voluntariness of an applicant’s renouncement without stating how such an assessment should occur\", and thus found that no APA violation had occurred.\n\nIn another case, \"Schnitzler v. United States\", plaintiff Aaron Schnitzler first appeared \"pro se\", but later gained representation. In the initial District Court case, Judge Reggie Walton construed Schnitzler's filing as a motion for a writ of mandamus against USCIS compelling them to process his application for renunciation, as well as a declaration that the Renunciation Act of 1944 was unconstitutional. Walton declined to grant relief, writing in his memorandum opinion that Schnitzler lacked standing to challenge the constitutionality of the statute and that USCIS had already acted on his application; with regards to Schnitzler's right to renounce his citizenship, Walton quoted the Supreme Court case \"Hewitt v. Helms\", where it was stated that \"[l]awful incarceration brings about the necessary withdrawal or limitation of many privileges and rights, a retraction justified by the considerations underlying our penal system.\"\n\nRepresented by students in Georgetown University Law Center's Appellate Litigation Program, in 2014 Schnitzler challenged Walton's decision in the Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit, before Chief Judge Merrick B. Garland and Circuit Judges Robert L. Wilkins and Douglas H. Ginsburg. The ruling first disagreed that Schnitzler lacked standing to challenge the renunciation statutes, stating that as he remained a citizen against his wishes, he had grounds to seek redress against what he viewed as an injury. The ruling further criticized the lower court for construing Schnitzler's filings as a motion for a writ of mandamus and concluding that USCIS' response meant he had obtained the relief he sought, and for stating that Schnitzler had no standing to challenge USCIS' policy either. Garland noted that the government \"offered a blizzard of constantly changing explanations for why it could not process [Schnitzler]'s request\", and in the end USCIS did not actually inform Schnitzler of the in-person interview policy before he filed his initial challenge in the District Court (a letter informing Schnitlzer of the policy did not get mailed out). Schnitzler's case was remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.\n\nIn a separate instance in 2012, Alan Horowitz, a dual citizen of the United States and Israel, also inquired with USCIS about renouncing U.S. citizenship under the Renunciation Act of 1944. USCIS responded that he must attend an interview at a USCIS office and demonstrate that he met all of the legal requirements to renounce his citizenship, in particular that he had the \"ability and intention to depart the [United States] immediately upon having [his] renunciation request granted.\" Horowitz had just been released from a New York state prison, but the New York Attorney General directed, pursuant to the state's Mental Hygiene Law, that Horowitz either remain in custody of the Department of Corrections and Community Supervision (DOCCS) pending further proceedings or be committed to a custodial treatment facility. The New York Supreme Court granted Horowitz' motion for an order directing DOCCS to produce him at a USCIS office for the in-person interview. However, he failed to actually secure the right to depart from the United States: the court rejected his argument that differing treatment of alien and dual-citizen offenders — in particular, the fact that an alien in his circumstances would be deported after completion of sentence, whereas citizens faced barriers to leaving — violated his right to equal protection and substantive due process. Horowitz appealed, but in 2014 the New York Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court's ruling.\n\nSection 3713 of the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act of 2013 would repeal , under the rubric of \"preventing criminals from renouncing citizenship during wartime\". This provision was contained in the initial version of the bill sponsored by the Gang of Eight, and remained in the version that passed the Senate on June 27, 2013. The same provision was also contained in the version of the bill introduced in the House on October 2, 2013 by Joe Garcia and 180 co-sponsors.\n"}
{"id": "52695639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52695639", "title": "Rocket Kitten", "text": "Rocket Kitten\n\nRocket Kitten or the Rocket Kitten Group is a hacker group thought to be linked to the Iranian government. The threat actor group has targeted organizations and individuals in the Middle East, particularly Israel, Saudi Arabia, Iran as well as the United States and Europe.\n\nCybersecurity firm FireEye first identified the group as Ajax Security Team, writing that the group appears to have been formed in 2010 by the hacker personas \"Cair3x\" and \"HUrr!c4nE!\". By 2012, the threat actor group turned their focus to Iran's political opponents. Their targeted attack campaigns, dubbed \"Rocket Kitten\", have been known since mid-2014. By 2013 or 2014, Rocket Kitten had shifted its focus to malware-based cyberespionage.\n\nSecurity firm Check Point describes Rocket Kitten as an \"attacker group of Iranian origin.\"\n\nRocket Kitten's code uses Persian language references. The group's targets are involved in defense, diplomacy, international affairs, security, policy research, human rights, and journalism. According to Check Point, the group has targeted Iranian dissidents, the Saudi royal family, Israeli nuclear scientists, and NATO officials. Security researchers found that they carried out a \"common pattern of spearphishing campaigns reflecting the interests and activities of the Iranian security apparatus.\" Other researchers determined that Rocket Kitten's attacks bore a similarity to those attributed to Iran's Revolutionary Guards. Intelligence officials from the Middle East and Europe linked Rocket Kitten to the Iranian military establishment. Rocket Kitten favours a Remote Access Trojan, and by 2015, researchers found it was using customised malware.\n\nCybersecurity firm FireEye released a report in 2013 finding that Rocket Kitten had conducted several cyberespionage operations against United States defense industrial base companies. The report also detailed the targeting of Iranian citizens who use anti-censorship tools to bypass Iran's Internet filters.\n\nTrend Micro identified the Operation Woolen-Goldfish campaign in a March 2015 paper. The campaign included improved spearphishing content.\n\nIn November 2015, security errors by Rocket Kitten allowed the firm Check Point to gain password-less root access to \"Oyun\", the hackers' back-end database. They discovered an application that was able to generate personalized phishing pages and contained a list of over 1,842 individual targets. Among Rocket Kitten's spearphishing targets from June 2014 to June 2015, 18% were from Saudi Arabia, 17% were from the United States, 16% were from Iran, 8% were from the Netherlands, and 5% were from Israel. Analysts used credentials to access key logs of the group's victims and found that Rocket Kitten had apparently tested their malware on their own workstations and failed to erase the logs from the data files. Check Point identified an individual named Yaser Balaghi, going by Wool3n.H4t, as a ringleader of the operation.\n\nIn August 2016, researchers identified Rocket Kitten as being behind a hack of Telegram, a cloud-based instant messaging service. The hackers exploited Telegram's reliance on SMS verification, comprising over a dozen accounts and stealing the user IDs and telephone numbers of 15 million Iranians who use the software. Opposition organizations and reformist political activists were among the victims.\n\n"}
{"id": "6981214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6981214", "title": "Salvage title", "text": "Salvage title\n\nIn North America, a salvage title is a form of vehicle title branding, which notes that the vehicle has been damaged and/or deemed a total loss by an insurance company that paid a claim on it. The criteria for determining when a salvage title is issued differ considerably by each state, province or territory. In a minority of states and Canadian provinces, regulations require a salvage title for stolen or vandalized vehicles which are not recovered by police within 21 days. In such cases insurance companies declare a vehicle total loss and pay off the previous owner; but, in others, it is issued only for losses due to damage. Under some circumstances, a salvage title denotation may be removed or replaced with a \"Rebuilt Salvage\" designation; and cars imported to, or exported from, the United States may be issued a clean title regardless of history.\n\nBecause a salvage title can be issued to a vehicle with easily repairable problems or no damage whatsoever, the low cost of the salvaged motorcycle or car is appealing to some hobbyists and investors. Experts recommend caution when purchasing a salvaged vehicle, because there may be hidden damage, which, if unrepairable, may render the vehicle a \"pile of parts.\"\n\nIn general, a vehicle is deemed \"salvage\" when the insurer determines that the repair or replacement cost is in excess of approximately 70% of its market value at the time of the accident or theft. Thresholds range between 50% and 95% of the vehicle's value, while \"total loss states\" leave the specifics to the insurer. In the state of Michigan, the issuance of a salvage title does \"not\" mean that the vehicle is also deemed a total loss. Michigan issues a salvage title when the damage equals 75-90% of the pre-damage value; if the loss is 91% or greater the vehicle is eligible only for a \"scrap\" title, which cannot be subsequently upgraded by any means. In Oregon, vehicles are determined to be Salvage title meet the 70% total loss value as state previously, as well as when a vehicle is abandoned and worth less than $500.\n\nMany people are confused about the actual repair cost that insurance companies use to deem the vehicle a salvage title. Skeptical shoppers automatically assume that 50-70% repair to value ratio of a vehicle would suggest that the vehicle is completely totaled and beyond reasonable repair. This is not always true and the shoppers who understand this are the ones who can obtain very good bargains. Although it is true that salvage titles are typically issued to vehicles when the repair costs exceed 50-70% of the vehicle value, this percentage needs to be considered in detail before assumptions are made.\n\nUpon paying the claim, the insurer may offer to return the vehicle to the owner as an insurance buy-back, in which case the owner is responsible for having the repairs made and having the car inspected by a State-designated facility. Depending on the state, this inspection may remove the salvage brand from the vehicle's title. The exact percentage of value that triggers the decision to total the vehicle is guided by applicable laws and regulations. The damage estimate is calculated at retail repair rates, which may be more than the cost of wholesale repair. Vehicles that are not bought back are auctioned as salvage to an auto recycler or a rebuilder and given a salvage title.\n\nIn the US, motorcycles and cars which carry a salvage title may not be registered and driven on public roads in most states, which impacts resale value. Rebranding of the title is not permitted without having an inspection to verify that they meet all safety standards. The inspection procedure may be complex, and attempts to illegally circumvent the inspections are periodically reported.\n\nIndustry standards followed by the National Automobile Dealers Association Appraisal Guides, Kelley Blue Book Market Report Official Guide, and the International Society of Automotive Appraisers devalue a motor vehicle that has a salvage title. The Kelley Blue Book automatically rates any salvage vehicle as \"poor\" and does not value it at all. The value of a vehicle with a salvage title is generally 65-75% lower than the vehicle's estimated value.\n\nIf the vehicle is rebuilt to a road worthy condition and has passed State inspection, the difference in price is 60-70% of fair KBB. These cars have \"rebuild\" or \"rebuild salvage\" annotation in the title and can be registered and operated just like a new car.\n\nCars that previously had \"junk\" title and were restored to road worthy condition get a new title and VIN after state inspection. The new VIN will not match any other VIN numbers on the vehicle doors or panels. Year of the vehicle is determined by title issue date. These are considered to be self assembled cars.\n\n\"Title washing\" refers to transferring a vehicle's registration for the express purpose of removing a title brand. The practice is legal, and practiced by the insurance companies themselves. Title brands such as \"salvage,\" \"junk,\" and \"rebuilt\" are not standardized, and a vehicle which has such a designation may receive a clean title when registered in a different jurisdiction. Further, vehicles imported to or exported from the United States and Canada are issued a clean title, even if they have been involved in an accident. Other states have relatively lax inspection criteria to remove the salvage brand.\n\nVehicle history reports sold by specialty services are intended to disclose the title history of the vehicle, including title washing. Because many US states don't submit accident information to the central National Motor Vehicle Title Information System and junkyards don't always file required paperwork for destroyed vehicles, the accuracy of these reports is not high. Consumer Reports noted that vehicle history checks would at times produce \"clean\" results despite the vehicles' being offered for sale as damaged on salvage-vehicle resale websites; title report provider Carfax settled a class-action lawsuit regarding the comprehensiveness of its reports in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "80402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80402", "title": "Satanic ritual abuse", "text": "Satanic ritual abuse\n\nSatanic ritual abuse (SRA, sometimes known as ritual abuse, ritualistic abuse, organised abuse, sadistic ritual abuse, and other variants) was the subject of a moral panic (often referred to as the satanic panic) that originated in the United States in the 1980s, spreading throughout many parts of the world by the late 1990s. Allegations of SRA involved reports of physical and sexual abuse of people in the context of occult or Satanic rituals. In its most extreme form, allegations involve a conspiracy of a worldwide SRA organisation that includes the wealthy and powerful of the world elite in which children are abducted or bred for sacrifices, pornography and prostitution.\n\nNearly every aspect of SRA was controversial, including its definition, the source of the allegations and proof thereof, testimonies of alleged victims, and court cases involving the allegations and criminal investigations. The panic affected lawyers', therapists', and social workers' handling of allegations of child sexual abuse. Allegations initially brought together widely dissimilar groups, including religious fundamentalists, police investigators, child advocates, therapists, and clients in psychotherapy. The movement gradually secularized, dropping or deprecating the \"satanic\" aspects of the allegations in favor of names that were less overtly religious such as \"sadistic\" or simply \"ritual abuse\" and becoming more associated with dissociative identity disorder and anti-government conspiracy theories.\n\nInitial publicity came via the book \"Michelle Remembers\" (1980), and was sustained and popularized throughout the decade by the McMartin preschool trial. Testimonials, symptom lists, rumors, and techniques to investigate or uncover memories of SRA were disseminated through professional, popular, and religious conferences, as well as through the attention of talk shows, sustaining and further spreading the moral panic throughout the United States and beyond. In some cases, allegations resulted in criminal trials with varying results; after seven years in court, the McMartin trial resulted in no convictions for any of the accused, while other cases resulted in lengthy sentences, some of which were later reversed. Scholarly interest in the topic slowly built, eventually resulting in the conclusion that the phenomenon was a moral panic, which, as Sarah Hughes observed in 2017, \"involved hundreds of accusations that devil-worshipping paedophiles were operating America's white middle-class suburban daycare centers.\"\n\nOfficial investigations produced no evidence of widespread conspiracies or of the slaughter of thousands; only a small number of verified crimes have even remote similarities to tales of SRA. In the latter half of the 1990s, interest in SRA declined and skepticism became the default position, with very few researchers giving any credence to the existence of SRA.\n\nThe SRA panic repeated many of the features of historical moral panics and conspiracy theories, such as the blood libel against Jews by Apion in the 30s CE, the wild rumors that led to the persecutions of early Christians in the Roman Empire, later allegations of Jewish rituals involving the killing of Christian babies and desecration of the Eucharist, and the witch hunts of the 16th and 17th centuries. Allegations of horrific acts by outsider groups—including cannibalism, child murder, torture and incestuous orgies—may have served as a form of \"othering\" for minority groups, as well scapegoat explanations for complex problems in times of social disruption. Torture and imprisonment were used by authority figures to coerce confessions from alleged Satanists, confessions that were later used to justify their execution. Records of these older allegations were linked by contemporary proponents in an effort to demonstrate the contemporary Satanic cults were part of an ancient conspiracy of evil, though ultimately there is no evidence for devil-worshipping cults in Europe at any time. A more immediate precedent to the context of the United States was McCarthyism in the 1950s.\n\nThe underpinnings for the contemporary moral panic were found in a rise of five factors in the years leading up to the 1980s: the establishment of fundamentalist Christianity and political organization of the Moral Majority; the rise of the anti-cult movement which spread ideas of abusive cults kidnapping and brainwashing children and teens; the appearance of the Church of Satan and other explicitly Satanist groups that added a kernel of truth to the existence of Satanic cults; the development of the social work or child protection field, and its struggle to have child sexual abuse recognized as a social problem and a serious crime; and the popularization of posttraumatic stress disorder, repressed memory, and corresponding survivor movement.\n\n\"Michelle Remembers\", written by Michelle Smith and her husband, the psychiatrist Lawrence Pazder, was published in 1980. Now discredited, the book was written in the form of an autobiography, presenting the first modern claim that child abuse was linked to Satanic rituals. Pazder was also responsible for coining the term \"ritual abuse.\" \"Michelle Remembers\" provided a model for numerous allegations of SRA that ensued later in the same decade. On the basis of the book's success, Pazder developed a high media profile, gave lectures and training on SRA to law enforcement, and by September 1990 had acted as a consultant on more than 1,000 SRA cases, including the McMartin preschool trial. Prosecutors used \"Michelle Remembers\" as a guide when preparing cases against alleged Satanists. \"Michelle Remembers\", along with other accounts portrayed as survivor stories, are suspected to have influenced later allegations of SRA, and the book has been suggested as a causal factor in the later epidemic of SRA allegations.\n\nThe early 1980s, during the implementation of mandatory reporting laws, saw a large increase in child protection investigations in America, Britain, and other developed countries, along with a heightened public awareness of child abuse. The investigation of incest allegations in California was also changed, with cases led by social workers who used leading and coercive interviewing techniques that had been avoided by police investigators. Such changes in the prosecution of cases of alleged incest resulted in an increase in confessions by fathers in exchange for plea bargains. Shortly thereafter, some children in child protection cases began making allegations of horrific physical and sexual abuse by caregivers within organized rituals, claiming sexual abuse in Satanic rituals and the use of Satanic symbols. These cases garnered the label \"satanic ritual abuse\" both in the media and among professionals. Childhood memories of similar abuse began to appear in the psychotherapy sessions of adults.\n\nIn 1983, charges were laid in the McMartin preschool trial, a major case in California, which received attention throughout the United States and contained allegations of satanic ritual abuse. The case caused tremendous polarization in how to interpret the available evidence. Shortly afterward, more than 100 preschools across the country became the object of similar sensationalist allegations, which were eagerly and uncritically reported by the press. Throughout the McMartin trial, media coverage of the defendants (Peggy McMartin and Ray Buckey) was unrelentingly negative, focusing only on statements by the prosecution. Michelle Smith and other alleged survivors met with parents involved in the trial, and it is believed that they influenced testimony against the accused.\n\nKee MacFarlane, a social worker employed by the Children's Institute International, developed a new way to interrogate children with anatomically correct dolls and used them in an effort to assist disclosures of abuse with the McMartin children. After asking the children to point to the places on the dolls where they had allegedly been touched and asking leading questions, MacFarlane diagnosed sexual abuse in virtually all the McMartin children. She coerced disclosures by using lengthy interviews that rewarded discussions of abuse and punished denials. The trial testimony that resulted from such methods was often contradictory and vague on all details except for the assertion that the abuse had occurred. Although the initial charges in the McMartin case featured allegations of Satanic abuse and a vast conspiracy, these features were dropped relatively early in the trial, and prosecution continued only for non-ritual allegations of child abuse against only two defendants. After three years of testimony, McMartin and Buckey were acquitted on 52 of 65 counts, and the jury was deadlocked on the remaining 13 charges against Buckey, with 11 of 13 jurors choosing not guilty. Buckey was re-charged and two years later released without conviction.\n\nIn 1984 MacFarlane warned a congressional committee of scatological behavior and animals being slaughtered in bizarre rituals that children were forced to watch. Shortly after, the United States Congress doubled its budget for child-protection programs. Psychiatrist Roland Summit delivered conferences in the wake of the McMartin trial and depicted the phenomenon as a conspiracy that involved anyone skeptical of the phenomenon. By 1986, social worker Carol Darling argued to a grand jury that the conspiracy reached the government. Her husband Brad Darling gave conference presentations about a Satanic conspiracy of great antiquity which he believed now permeated American communities.\n\nBy the late 1980s, therapists or patients who believed someone had suffered from SRA could suggest solutions that included Christian psychotherapy, exorcism, and support groups whose members self-identified as \"anti-Satanic warriors.\" Federal funding was increased for research on child abuse, with large portions of the funding allocated for research on child sexual abuse. Funding was also provided for conferences supporting the idea of SRA, adding a veneer of respectability to the idea as well as offering an opportunity for prosecutors to exchange advice on how to best secure convictions—with tactics including destruction of notes, refusing to tape interviews with children, and destroying or refusing to share evidence with the defense. Had proof been found, SRA would have represented the first occasion where an organized and secret criminal activity had been discovered by mental health professionals. In 1987 Geraldo Rivera produced a national television special on the alleged secret cults, claiming \"Estimates are that there are over one million Satanists in [the United States and they are] linked in a highly organized, secretive network.\" Tapings of this and similar talk show episodes were subsequently used by religious fundamentalists, psychotherapists, social workers and police to promote the idea that a conspiracy of Satanic cults existed and was committing serious crimes.\n\nIn the 1990s psychologist D. Corydon Hammond publicized a detailed theory of ritual abuse drawn from hypnotherapy sessions with his patients, alleging they were victims of a worldwide conspiracy of organized, secretive clandestine cells who used torture, mind control and ritual abuse to create alternate personalities that could be \"activated\" with code words; the victims were allegedly trained as assassins, prostitutes, drug traffickers, and child sex workers (to create child pornography). Hammond claimed his patients had revealed the conspiracy was masterminded by a Jewish doctor in Nazi Germany, but who now worked for the Central Intelligence Agency with a goal of worldwide domination by a Satanic cult. The cult was allegedly composed of respectable, powerful members of society who used the funds generated to further their agenda. Missing memories among the victims and absence of evidence was cited as evidence of the power and effectiveness of this cult in furthering its agenda. Hammond's claims gained considerable attention, due in part to his prominence in the field of hypnosis and psychotherapy.\n\nSatanic ritual abuse brought together several groups normally unlikely to associate, including psychotherapists, self-help groups, religious fundamentalists and law enforcement. Initial accusations were made in the context of the rising political power of conservative Christianity within the United States, and religious fundamentalists enthusiastically promoted rumors of SRA. Psychotherapists who were actively Christian advocated for the diagnosis of dissociative identity disorder (DID); soon after, accounts similar to \"Michelle Remembers\" began to appear, with some therapists believing the alter egos of some patients were the result of demonic possession. Protestantism was instrumental in starting, spreading, and maintaining rumors through sermons about the dangers of SRA, lectures by purported experts, and prayer sessions, including showings of the 1987 Geraldo Rivera television special. Secular proponents appeared, and child protection workers became significantly involved. Law enforcement trainers, many themselves strongly religious, became strong promoters of the claims and self-described \"experts\" on the topic. Their involvement in child sexual abuse cases produced more allegations of SRA, adding credibility to the phenomenon. As the explanations for SRA were distanced from evangelical Christianity and associated with \"survivor\" groups, the motivations ascribed to purported Satanists shifted from combating a religious nemesis, to mind control and abuse as an end to itself. Clinicians, psychotherapists and social workers documented clients with alleged histories of SRA, though the claims of therapists were unsubstantiated beyond the testimonies of their clients.\n\nIn 1987 a list of \"indicators\" was published by Catherine Gould, featuring a broad array of vague symptoms that were ultimately common, non-specific and subjective, capable of diagnosing SRA in most young children. By the late 1980s allegations began to appear throughout the world (including Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, the Netherlands and Scandinavia), in part enabled by English as a common international language and in the United Kingdom, assisted by Gould's list of indicators. Belief in SRA spread rapidly through the ranks of mental health professionals (despite an absence of evidence) through a variety of continuing education seminars, during which attendees were urged to believe in the reality of Satanic cults their victims, and not to question the extreme and bizarre memories uncovered. Proof was provided in the form of unconnected bits of information such as pictures drawn by patients, heavy metal album covers, historical folklore about devil worshipers, and pictures of mutilated animals. During the seminars, patients provided testimonials of their experiences and presenters stressed that recovering memories was important for healing.\n\nMedia coverage of SRA began to turn negative by 1987, and the \"panic\" ended between 1992 and 1995. The release of the HBO made-for-TV movie \"\" in 1995 re-cast Ray Buckey as a victim of overzealous prosecution rather than an abusive predator and marked a watershed change in public perceptions of satanic ritual abuse accusations. By 2003 allegations of ritual abuse were met with great skepticism and belief in SRA was no longer considered mainstream in professional circles; although the sexual abuse of children is a real and serious problem, allegations of SRA were essentially false. Reasons for the collapse of the phenomenon include the collapse of criminal prosecution against alleged abusers, a growing number of scholars, officials and reporters questioning the reality of the accusations, and a variety of successful lawsuits against mental health professionals. Astrophysicist and astrobiologist Carl Sagan devoted an entire chapter of his last book, \"The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark\" (1996) to a critique of claims of recovered memories of UFO abductions and satanic ritual abuse and cited material from the newsletter of the False Memory Syndrome Foundation with approval.\n\nSome feminist critics of the SRA diagnoses maintained that, in the course of attempting to purge society of evil, the panic of the 1980s and 1990s obscured real child-abuse issues, a concern echoed by Gary Clapton. In England, the SRA panic diverted resources and attention from proven abuse cases; this resulted in a hierarchy of abuse in which SRA was the most serious form, physical and sexual abuse being minimized and/or marginalized, and \"mere\" physical abuse no longer worthy of intervention. In addition, as criticism of SRA investigation increased, the focus by social workers on SRA resulted in a large loss of credibility to the profession. SRA, with its sensational makeup of many victims abused by many victimizers, ended up robbing the far more common and proven issue of incest of much of its societal significance. The National Center for Abuse and Neglect devised the term \"religious abuse\" to describe exorcism, poisoning, and drowning of children in non-satanic religious settings in order to avoid confusion with SRA.\n\nSome people still believe there is credence to allegations of SRA and continue to discuss the topic. Publications by Cathy O'Brien claiming SRA were the result of government programs (specifically the Central Intelligence Agency's Project MKULTRA) to produce Manchurian candidate-style mind control in young children were picked up by conspiracy theorists, linking belief in SRA with claims of government conspiracies. In the book \"Mistakes Were Made (But Not by Me)\", authors Carol Tavris and Elliot Aronson cite ongoing belief in the SRA phenomenon despite a complete lack of evidence as demonstration of the confirmation bias in believers; it further points out that a lack of evidence is actually considered by believers in SRA as \"more\" evidence, demonstrating \"how clever and evil the cult leaders were: They were eating those babies, bones and all.\" A Salt Lake City therapist, Barbara Snow, was put on probation in 2008 for planting false memories of satanic abuse in patients. One notable client of hers was Teal Swan.\n\nThe term \"satanic ritual abuse\" is used to describe different behaviors, actions and allegations that lie between extremes of definitions. In 1988, a nationwide study of sexual abuse in U.S. day care agencies, led by David Finkelhor, divided \"ritual abuse\" allegations into three categories—cult-based ritualism in which the abuse had a spiritual or social goal for the perpetrators, pseudo-ritualism in which the goal was sexual gratification and the rituals were used to frighten or intimidate victims, and psychopathological ritualism in which the rituals were due to mental disorders. Subsequent investigators have expanded on these definitions and also pointed to a fourth alleged type of Satanic ritual abuse, in which petty crimes with ambiguous meaning (such as graffiti or vandalism) generally committed by teenagers were attributed to the actions of Satanic cults.\n\nBy the early 1990s, the phrase \"Satanic ritual abuse\" was featured in media coverage of ritualistic abuse but its use decreased among professionals in favour of more nuanced terms such as multi-dimensional child sex rings, ritual/ritualistic abuse, organised abuse or sadistic abuse, some of which acknowledged the complexity of abuse cases with multiple perpetrators and victims without projecting a religious framework onto perpetrators. The latter in particular failed to substantively improve on or replace \"Satanic\" abuse as it was never used to describe any rituals except the Satanic ones that were the core of SRA allegations. Abuse within the context of Christianity, Islam or any other religions failed to enter the SRA discourse.\n\nAllegation of cult-based abuse is the most extreme scenario of SRA. During the initial period of interest starting in the early 1980s the term was used to describe a network of Satan-worshipping, secretive intergenerational cults that were supposedly part of a highly organized conspiracy engaged in criminal behaviors such as forced prostitution, drug distribution and pornography. These cults were also thought to sexually abuse and torture children in order to coerce them into a lifetime of Devil worship. Other allegations included bizarre sexual acts such as necrophilia, forced ingestion of semen, blood and feces, cannibalism, orgies, liturgical parody such as pseudosacramental use of feces and urine; infanticide, sacrificial abortions to eat fetuses and human sacrifice; satanic police officers who covered up evidence of SRA crimes and desecration of Christian graves. No evidence of any of these claims has ever been found; the proof presented by those who alleged the reality of cult-based abuse primarily consisted of the memories of adults recalling childhood abuse, the testimony of young children and extremely controversial confessions. The idea of a murderous Satanic conspiracy created a controversy dividing the professional child abuse community at the time, though no evidence has been found to support allegations of a large number of children being killed or abused in Satanic rituals. From a law enforcement perspective, an intergenerational conspiracy dedicated to ritual sacrifice whose members remain completely silent, make no mistakes and leave no physical evidence is unlikely; cases of what the media incorrectly perceived as actual cult sacrifices (such as the 1989 case of Adolfo Constanzo) have supported this idea.\n\nA third variation of ritual abuse involves non-religious ritual abuse in which the rituals were delusional or obsessive. There are incidents of extreme sadistic crimes that are committed by individuals, loosely organized families and possibly in some organized cults, some of which may be connected to Satanism, though this is more likely to be related to sex trafficking; though SRA may happen in families, extended families and localized groups, it is not believed to occur in large, organized groups.\n\nInvestigators considered graffiti such as the pentagram to be evidence of a Satanic cult. Ambiguous crimes in which actual or erroneously believed symbols of Satanism appear have also been claimed as part of the SRA phenomenon, though in most cases the crimes cannot be linked to a specific belief system; minor crimes such as vandalism, trespassing and graffiti were often found to be the actions of teenagers who were acting out.\n\nThere was never any consensus on what actually constituted Satanic ritual abuse. This lack of a single definition, as well as confusion between the meanings of the term \"ritual\" (religious versus psychological) allowed a wide range of allegations and evidence to be claimed as a demonstration of the reality of SRA claims, irrespective of which \"definition\" the evidence supported. Acrimonious disagreements between groups who supported SRA allegations as authentic and those criticizing them as unsubstantiated resulted in an extremely polarized discussion with little middle ground. The lack of credible evidence for the more extreme interpretations often being seen as evidence of an effective conspiracy rather than an indication that the allegations are unfounded. The atheistic or religious beliefs of the disputants have also resulted in different interpretations of evidence, and as well as accusations of those who reject the claims being \"anti-child\". Both believers and skeptics have developed networks to disseminate information on their respective positions. One of the central themes of the discussion among English child abuse professionals was the assertion that people should simply \"believe the children\", and that the testimony of children was sufficient proof, which ignored the fact that in many cases the testimony of children was interpreted by professionals rather than the children explicitly disclosing allegations of abuse. In some cases this was simultaneously presented with the idea that it did not matter if SRA actually existed, that the empirical truth of SRA was irrelevant, that the testimony of children was more important than that of doctors, social workers and the criminal justice system.\n\nThe National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect conducted a study led by University of California psychologist Gail Goodman, which found that among 12,000 accusations of satanic ritual abuse, there was no evidence for \"a well-organized intergenerational satanic cult, who sexually molested and tortured children\", although there was \"convincing evidence of lone perpetrators or couples who say they are involved with Satan or use the claim to intimidate victims.\" One such case Goodman studied involved \"grandparents [who] had black robes, candles, and Christ on an inverted crucifix--and the children had chlamydia, a sexually transmitted disease, in their throats\", according to the report by a district attorney.\n\nThe evidence for SRA was primarily in the form of testimonies from children who made allegations of SRA, and adults who claim to remember abuse during childhood, that may have been forgotten and recovered during therapy. With both children and adults, no corroborating evidence has been found for anything except pseudosatanism in which the satanic and ritual aspects were secondary to and used as a cover for sexual abuse. Despite this lack of objective evidence, and aided by the competing definitions of what SRA actually was, proponents claimed SRA was a real phenomenon throughout the peak and during the decline of the moral panic. Despite allegations appearing in the United States, Netherlands, Sweden, New Zealand and Australia, no material evidence has been found to corroborate allegations of organized cult-based abuse that practices human sacrifice and cannibalism. Though trauma specialists frequently claimed the allegations made by children and adults were the same, in reality the statements made by adults were more elaborate, severe, and featured more bizarre abuse. In 95% of the adults' cases, the memories of the abuse were recovered during psychotherapy.\n\nFor several years, a conviction list assembled by the Believe the Children advocacy group was circulated as proof of the truth of satanic ritual abuse allegations, though the organization itself no longer exists and the list itself is \"egregiously out of date\".\n\nTwo investigations were carried out to assess the evidence for SRA. In the United States, evidence was reported but was based on a flawed methodology with an overly liberal definition of a substantiated case. In the United Kingdom, a government report produced no evidence of SRA, but several examples of false satanists faking rituals to frighten their victims.\n\nDavid Finkelhor completed an investigation of child sexual abuse in daycares in the United States, and published a report in 1988. The report found 270 cases of sexual abuse, of which 36 were classified as substantiated cases of ritual abuse. Mary de Young has pointed out that the report's definition of \"substantiated\" was overly liberal as it required only that one agency had decided that abuse had occurred, even if no action was taken, no arrests made, no operating licenses suspended. In addition, multiple agencies may have been involved in each case (including the FBI, local police, social services agencies and childhood protective services in many cases), with wide differences in suspicion and confirmation, often in disagreement with each other. Finkelhor, upon receiving a \"confirmation\", would collect information from whoever was willing or interested to provide it and did not independently investigate the cases, resulting in frequent errors in their conclusions. No data is provided beyond case studies and brief summaries. Three other cases considered corroborating by the public—the McMartin preschool trial, the Country Walk case and the murders in Matamoros, by Adolfo Constanzo—ultimately failed to support the existence of SRA. The primary witness in the Country Walk case repeatedly made, then withdrew accusations against her husband amid unusual and coercive inquiries by her lawyer and a psychologist. The Matamoros murders produced the bodies of 12 adults who were ritually sacrificed by a drug gang inspired by the film \"The Believers\", but did not involve children or sexual abuse. The McMartin case resulted in no convictions and was ultimately based on accusations by children with no proof beyond their coerced testimonies. A 1996 investigation of more than 12,000 allegations of satanic, ritual and religious abuse resulted in no cases that were considered factual or corroborated.\n\nA British study published in 1996 found 62 cases of alleged ritual abuse reported to researchers by police, social and welfare agencies from the period of 1988 to 1991, representing a tiny proportion of extremely high-profile cases compared to the total number investigated by the agencies. Anthropologist Jean LaFontaine spent several years researching ritual abuse cases in Britain at the behest of the government, finding that all of the cases of alleged satanic ritual abuse that could be substantiated were cases where the perpetrators' goal was sexual gratification rather than religious worship. Producing several reports and the 1998 book \"Speak of the Devil\", after reviewing cases reported to police and children's protective services throughout the country LaFontaine concluded that the only rituals she uncovered were those invented by child abusers to frighten their victims or justify the sexual abuse. In addition, the sexual abuse occurred outside of the rituals, indicating the goal of the abuser was sexual gratification rather than ritualistic or religious. In cases involving satanic abuse, the satanic allegations by younger children were influenced by adults, and the concerns over the satanic aspects were found to be compelling due to cultural attraction of the concept, but distracting from the actual harm caused to the abuse victims.\n\nIn more recent years, discredited allegations of SRA have been levelled against Jimmy Saville during the posthumous investigation into his sexual abuse of children, as well as against former Prime Minister Ted Heath (who was previously falsely accused of SRA within his lifetime).\n\nThe majority of adult testimonials occurred as a result of adults undergoing psychotherapy, in most cases therapy designed to elicit memories of SRA. Therapists claimed the pain expressed by the patients, internal consistency of their stories and similarity of allegations by different patients was evidence for SRA, but despite this, the disclosures of patients never resulted in any corroboration; Allegations of alleged victims that were obtained from mental health practitioners lacked verifiable evidence, were anecdotal and involved incidents that were years or decades old. The concern for therapists revolved around the pain of their clients, which is for them more important than the truth of their patients' statements. A sample of 29 patients in a medical clinic reporting SRA found no corroboration of the claims in medical records or in discussion with family members. and a survey of 2,709 American therapists found the majority of allegations of SRA came from only sixteen therapists, suggesting that the determining factor in a patient making allegations of SRA was the therapist's predisposition. Further, the alleged similarities between patient accounts (particularly between adults and children) turned out to be illusory upon review, with adults describing far more elaborate, severe and bizarre abuse than children. Bette Bottoms, who reviewed hundreds of claims of adult and child abuse, described the ultimate evidence for the abuse as \"astonishingly weak and ambiguous\" particularly given the severity of the alleged abuse. Therapists however, were found to believe patients more as the allegations became more bizarre and severe.\n\nIn cases where patients made claims that were physically impossible, or evidence found by police was contradictory, the details reported will often change. If patients pointed to a spot where a body was buried, but no body was found and no earth was disturbed, therapists resort to special pleading, saying the patient was hypnotically programmed to direct investigators to the wrong location, or that they were fooled by the cult into believing a crime was not committed. If alleged bodies were cremated and police point out ordinary fires are inadequate to completely destroy a body, stories include special industrial furnaces. The patients' allegations change and creatively find \"solutions\" to objections.\n\nThe second group to make allegations of SRA were young children. During the \"satanic panic\" of the 1980s, the techniques used by investigators to gather evidence from witnesses, particularly young children, evolved to become very leading, coercive and suggestive, pressuring young children to provide testimony and refusing to accept denials while offering inducements that encouraged false disclosures. The interviewing techniques used were the factors believed to have led to the construction of the bizarre disclosures of SRA by the children and changes to forensic and interviewing techniques since that time has resulted in a disappearance of the allegations. Analysis of the techniques used in two key cases (the McMartin preschool and Wee Care Nursery School trials) concluded that the children were questioned in a highly suggestive manner. Compared with a set of interviews from Child Protective Services, the interviews from the two trials were \"significantly more likely to (a) introduce new suggestive information into the interview, (b) provide praise, promises, and positive reinforcement, (c) express disapproval, disbelief, or disagreement with children, (d) exert conformity pressure, and (e) invite children to pretend or speculate about supposed events.\"\n\nSpecific allegations from the cases included:\n\nA variety of these allegations resulted in criminal convictions; in an analysis of these cases Mary de Young found that many had had their convictions overturned. Of 22 day care employees and their sentences reviewed in 2007, three were still incarcerated, eleven had charges dismissed or overturned, and eight were released before serving their full sentences. Grounds included technical dismissals, constitutional challenges and prosecutorial misconduct.\n\nSRA and the so-called \"Satanic panic\" have been called a moral panic and compared to the blood libel and witch-hunts of historical Europe, and McCarthyism in the United States during the 20th century. Stanley Cohen, who originated the term \"moral panic,\" called the episode \"one of the purest cases of moral panic.\" The initial investigations of SRA were performed by anthropologists and sociologists, who failed to find evidence of SRA actually occurring; instead they concluded that SRA was a result of rumors and folk legends that were spread by \"media hype, Christian fundamentalism, mental health and law enforcement professionals and child abuse advocates.\" Sociologists and journalists noted the vigorous nature with which some evangelical activists and groups were using claims of SRA to further their religious and political goals. Other commentators suggested that the entire phenomenon may be evidence of a moral panic over Satanism and child abuse. Skeptical explanations for allegations of SRA have included an attempt by radical feminists to undermine the nuclear family, a backlash against working women, homophobic attacks on gay childcare workers, a universal need to believe in evil, fear of alternative spiritualities, \"end of the millennium\" anxieties, or a transient form of temporal lobe epilepsy.\n\nIn his book \"Satanic Panic\", Jeffery Victor writes that, in the United States, the groups most likely to believe rumors of SRA are rural, poorly educated, religiously conservative Protestant blue-collar families with an unquestioning belief in American values who feel significant anxieties over job loss, economic decline and family disintegration. Victor considers rumours of SRA a symptom of a moral crisis and a form of scapegoating for economic and social ills.\n\nInformation about SRA claims spread through conferences presented to religious groups, churches and professionals such as police forces and therapists as well as parents. These conferences and presentations served to organize agencies and foster communication between groups, maintaining and spreading disproven or exaggerated stories as fact. Members of local police forces organized into loose networks focused on cult crimes, some of whom billed themselves as \"experts\" and were paid to speak at conferences throughout the United States. Religious revivalists also took advantage of the rumors and preached about the dangers of Satanism to youth and presented themselves at paid engagements as secular experts. At the height of the panic, the highly emotional accusations and circumstances of SRA allegations made it difficult to investigate the claims, with the accused being assumed as guilty and skeptics becoming co-accused during trials, and trials moving forward based solely on the testimony of very young children without corroborating evidence. No forensic or corroborating evidence has ever been found for religiously based cannibalistic or murderous SRA, despite extensive investigations. The concern and reaction expressed by various groups regarding the seriousness or threat of SRA has been considered out of proportion to the actual threat by satanically motivated crimes, and the rare crime that exists that may be labeled \"satanic\" does not justify the existence of a conspiracy or network of religiously motivated child abusers.\n\nJeffrey Victor reviewed 67 rumors about SRA in the United States and Canada reported in newspapers or television, and found no evidence supporting the existence of murderous satanic cults. LaFontaine states that cases of alleged SRA investigated in the United Kingdom were reviewed in detail and the majority were unsubstantiated; three were found to involve sexual abuse of children in the context of rituals, but none involved the Witches' Sabbath or devil worship that are characteristic of allegations of SRA. LaFontaine also states that no material evidence has been forthcoming in allegations of SRA; no bones, bodies or blood, in either the United States or Britain.\n\nKenneth Lanning, an FBI expert in the investigation of child sexual abuse, has stated that pseudo-Satanism may exist but there is \"little or no evidence for ... large-scale baby breeding, human sacrifice, and organized satanic conspiracies\". There are many possible alternative answers to the question of why victims are alleging things that don't seem to be true...I believe that there is a middle ground—a continuum of possible activity. Some of what the victims allege may be true and accurate, some may be misperceived or distorted, some may be screened or symbolic, and some may be \"contaminated\" or false. The problem and challenge, especially for law enforcement, is to determine which is which. This can only be done through active investigation. I believe that the majority of victims alleging \"ritual\" abuse are in fact victims of some form of abuse or trauma.\n\nLanning produced a monograph in 1994 on SRA aimed at child protection authorities, which contained his opinion that despite hundreds of investigations no corroboration of SRA had been found. Following this report, several convictions based on SRA allegations were overturned and the defendants released.\n\nReported cases of SRA involve bizarre activities, some of which are impossible (like people flying), that makes the credibility of victims of child sexual abuse questionable. In cases where SRA is alleged to occur, Lanning describes common dynamics of the use of fear to control multiple young victims, the presence of multiple perpetrators and strange or ritualized behaviors, though allegations of crimes such as human sacrifice and cannibalism do not seem to be true. Lanning also suggests several reasons why adult victims may make allegations of SRA, including \"pathological distortion, traumatic memory, normal childhood fears and fantasies, misperception, and confusion\".\n\nAllegations of SRA have appeared throughout the world. The failure of certain high-profile legal cases generated worldwide media attention, and came to play a central feature in the growing controversies over child abuse, memory and the law. The testimony of children in these cases may have led to their collapse, as juries came to believe that the sources of the allegations were the use of suggestive and manipulative interviewing techniques, rather than actual events. Research since that time has supported these concerns and without the use of these techniques it is unlikely the cases would ever have reached trial.\n\nIn one analysis of 36 court cases involving sexual abuse of children within rituals, only one quarter resulted in convictions and the convictions had little to do with ritual sex abuse. In a 1994 survey of more than 11,000 psychiatric and police workers throughout the US, conducted for the National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect, researchers investigated approximately 12,000 accusations of group cult sexual abuse based on satanic ritual. The survey found no substantiated reports of well-organized satanic rings of people who sexually abuse children, but did find incidents in which the ritualistic aspects were secondary to the abuse and were used to intimidate victims. Victor reviewed 21 court cases alleging SRA between 1983 and 1987 in which no prosecutions were obtained for ritual abuse.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, some courts attempted \"ad hoc\" accommodations to address the anxieties of child witnesses in relation to testifying before defendants. Screens or CCTV technology are a common feature of child sexual assault trials today; children in the early 1980s were typically forced into direct visual contact with the accused abuser while in court. SRA allegations in the courts catalyzed a broad agenda of research into the nature of children's testimony and the reliability of their oral evidence in court. Ultimately in SRA cases, the coercive techniques used by believing district attorneys, therapists and police officers were critical in establishing, and often resolving, SRA cases. In courts, when juries were able to see recordings or transcripts of interviews with children, the alleged abusers were acquitted. The reaction by successful prosecutors, spread throughout conventions and conferences on SRA, was to destroy, or fail to take notes of the interviews in the first place. One group of researchers concluded that children usually lack the sufficient amount of \"explicit knowledge\" of satanic ritual abuse to fabricate all of the details of an SRA claim on their own. However, the same researchers also concluded that children usually have the sufficient amount of general knowledge of \"violence and the occult\" to \"serve as a starting point from which ritual claims could develop.\"\n\nIn 2006, psychologist and attorney Christopher Barden drafted an \"amicus curiae\" brief to the California Supreme Court signed by nearly 100 international experts in the field of human memory emphasizing the lack of credible scientific support for repressed and recovered memories.\n\nSRA has been linked to dissociative identity disorder (DID, also known as multiple personality disorder or MPD), with many DID patients also alleging cult abuse. The first person to write a first-person narrative about SRA was Michelle Smith, co-author of \"Michelle Remembers\"; Smith was diagnosed with DID by her therapist and later husband Lawrence Pazder. Psychiatrists involved with the International Society for the Study of Trauma and Dissociation (then called the International Society for the Study of Multiple Personality and Dissociation), especially associate editor Bennett G. Braun, uncritically promoted the idea that actual groups of persons who worshiped Satan were abusing and ritually sacrificing children and, furthermore, that thousands of persons were recovering actual memories of such abuse during therapy, openly discussing such claims in the organization's journal, \"Dissociation\". In a 1989 editorial, \"Dissociation\" editor-in-chief Richard Kluft likened clinicians who did not speak of their patients with recovered memories of SRA to the \"good Germans\" during the Holocaust. One particularly controversial article found parallels between SRA accounts and pre-Inquisition historical records of satanism, hence claimed to find support for the existence of ancient and intergenerational satanic cults. A review of these claims by sociologist Mary de Young in a 1994 \"Behavioral Sciences and the Law\" article noted that the historical basis for these claims, and in particular their continuity of cults, ceremonies and rituals was questionable. However at a conference in November 1990, psychiatrist and researcher Frank Putnam, then chief of the Dissociative Disorders Unit of the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Maryland, led a plenary session panel that proved to be the first public presentation of psychiatric, historical and law enforcement skepticism concerning SRA claims. Other members of the panel included psychiatrist George Ganaway, anthropologist Sherrill Mulhern, and psychologist Richard Noll. Putnam, a skeptic, was viewed by SRA advocates in attendance as using fellow skeptics such as Noll and Mulhern as allies in a disinformation campaign to split the SRA-believing community.\n\nA survey investigating 12,000 cases of alleged SRA found that most were diagnosed with DID as well as post-traumatic stress disorder. The level of dissociation in a sample of women alleging SRA was found to be higher than a comparable sample of non-SRA peers, approaching the levels shown by patients diagnosed with DID. A sample of patients diagnosed with DID and reporting childhood SRA also present other symptoms including \"dissociative states with satanic overtones, severe post-traumatic stress disorder, survivor guilt, bizarre self abuse, unusual fears, sexualization of sadistic impulses, indoctrinated beliefs, and substance abuse\". Commenting on the study, Philip Coons stated that patients were held together in a ward dedicated to dissociative disorders with ample opportunity to socialize, and that the memories were recovered through the use of hypnosis (which he considered questionable). No cases were referred to law enforcement for verification, nor was verification attempted through family members. Coons also pointed out that existing injuries could have been self-inflicted, that the experiences reported were \"strikingly similar\" and that \"many of the SRA reports developed while patients were hospitalized\". The reliability of memories of DID clients who alleged SRA in treatment has been questioned and a point of contention in the popular media and with clinicians; many of the allegations made are fundamentally impossible and alleged survivors lack the physical scars that would result were their allegations true.\n\nMany women claiming to be SRA survivors have been diagnosed as sufferers of DID, and it is unclear if their claims of childhood abuse are accurate or a manifestation of their diagnosis. Of a sample of 29 patients who presented with SRA, 22 were diagnosed with dissociative disorders including DID. The authors noted that 58% of the SRA claims appeared in the years following the Geraldo Rivera special on SRA and a further 34% following a workshop on SRA presented in the area; in only two patients were the memories elicited without the use of \"questionable therapeutic practices for memory retrieval.\" Claims of SRA by DID patients have been called \"...often nothing more than fantastic pseudomemories implanted or reinforced in psychotherapy\" and SRA a cultural script of the perception of DID. Some believe that memories of SRA are solely iatrogenically implanted memories from suggestive therapeutic techniques, though this has been criticized by Daniel Brown, Alan Scheflin and Corydon Hammond for what they argue as over-reaching the scientific data that supports an iatrogenic theory. Others have criticized Hammond specifically for using therapeutic techniques to gather information from clients that rely solely on information fed by the therapist in a manner that highly suggests iatrogenesis. Skeptics claimed that the increase in DID diagnosis on the 1980s and 1990s and its association with memories of SRA is evidence of malpractice by treating professionals.\n\nMuch of the body of literature on the treatment of ritually abused patients focuses on dissociative disorders.\n\nOne explanation for the SRA allegations is that they were based upon false memories caused by the over-use of hypnosis and other suggestive techniques by therapists underestimating the suggestibility of their clients. The altered state of consciousness induced by hypnosis rendered patients an unusual ability to produce confabulations, often with the assistance of their therapists. Advocates of false memory syndrome (FMS), a controversial term promoted by the False Memory Syndrome Foundation, claim that the purported \"memories\" of ritual abuse are actually false memories, created iatrogenically through suggestion or coercion. The FMSF has used the idea of ritual abuse as a strategy to illustrate their position that most allegations of sexual abuse uncovered by the suggestive techniques used during recovered memory therapy are false \"memories\" of events that never happened. According to Kathleen Faller this has contributed to the sensationalization of the ritual abuse cases in the media.\n\nPaul R. McHugh, professor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins University discusses in his book \"Try to Remember\" the developments that led to the creation of false memories in the SRA moral panic and the formation of the FMSF as an effort to bring contemporary scientific research and political action to the polarizing struggle about false memories within the mental health disciplines. According to McHugh, there is no coherent scientific basis for the core belief of one side of the struggle, that sexual abuse can cause massive systemic repression of memories that can only be accessed through hypnosis, coercive interviews and other dubious techniques. The group of psychiatrists who promoted these ideas, whom McHugh terms \"Mannerist Freudians\", consistently followed a deductive approach to diagnosis in which the theory and causal explanation of symptoms was assumed to be childhood sexual abuse leading to dissociation, followed by a set of unproven and unreliable treatments with a strong confirmation bias that inevitably produced the allegations and causes that were assumed to be there. The treatment approach involved isolation of the patient from friends and family within psychiatric wards dedicated to the treatment of dissociation, filled with other patients who were treated by the same doctors with the same flawed methods and staff members who also coherently and universally ascribed to the same set of beliefs. These methods began in the 1980s and continued for several years until a series of court cases and medical malpractice lawsuits resulted in hospitals failing to support the approach. In cases where the dissociative symptoms were ignored, the coercive treatment approach ceased and the patients were removed from dedicated wards, allegations of satanic rape and abuse normally ceased, \"recovered\" memories were identified as fabrications and conventional treatments for presenting symptoms were generally successful.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2153809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2153809", "title": "Seating capacity", "text": "Seating capacity\n\nSeating capacity is the number of people who can be seated in a specific space, in terms of both the physical space available, and limitations set by law. Seating capacity can be used in the description of anything ranging from an automobile that seats two to a stadium that seats hundreds of thousands of people. The largest sporting venue in the world, the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, has a permanent seating capacity for more than 235,000 people and infield seating that raises capacity to an approximate 400,000.\n\nSafety is a primary concern in determining the seating capacity of a venue: \"Seating capacity, seating layouts and densities are largely dictated by legal requirements for the safe evacuation of the occupants in the event of fire\". The International Building Code specifies, \"In places of assembly, the seats shall be securely fastened to the floor\" but provides exceptions if the total number of seats is fewer than 100, if there is a substantial amount of space available between seats or if the seats are at tables. It also delineates the number of available exits for interior balconies and galleries based on the seating capacity, and sets forth the number of required wheelchair spaces in a table derived from the seating capacity of the space.\n\nThe International Fire Code, portions of which have been adopted by many jurisdictions, is directed more towards the use of a facility than the construction. It specifies, \"For areas having fixed seating without dividing arms, the occupant load shall not be less than the number of seats based on one person for each 18 inches (457 mm) of seating length\". It also requires that every public venue submit a detailed site plan to the local fire code official, including \"details of the means of egress, seating capacity, [and] arrangement of the seating...\"\n\nOnce safety considerations have been satisfied, determinations of seating capacity turn on the total size of the venue, and its purpose. For sports venues, the \"decision on maximum seating capacity is determined by several factors. Chief among these are the primary sports program and the size of the market area\". In motion picture venues, the \"limit of seating capacity is determined by the maximal viewing distance for a given size of screen\", with image quality for closer viewers declining as the screen is expanded to accommodate more distant viewers.\n\nSeating capacity of venues also plays a role in what media they are able to provide and how they are able to provide it. In contracting to permit performers to use a theatre or other performing space, the \"seating capacity of the performance facility must be disclosed\". Seating capacity may influence the kind of contract to be used and the royalties to be given. The seating capacity must also be disclosed to the copyright owner in seeking a license for the copyrighted work to be performed in that venue.\n\nVenues that may be leased for private functions such as ballrooms and auditoriums generally advertise their seating capacity. Seating capacity is also an important consideration in the construction and use of sports venues such as stadiums and arenas. When entities such as the National Football League's Super Bowl Committee decide on a venue for a particular event, seating capacity, which reflects the possible number of tickets that can be sold for the event, is an important consideration.\n\nThe seating capacity for restaurants is reported as 'covers'; a restaurant that can seat 99 is said to have 99 covers.\n\nSeating capacity differs from \"total capacity\" (sometimes called \"public capacity\"), which describes the total number of people who can fit in a venue or in a vehicle either sitting or standing. Where seating capacity is a legal requirement, however, as it is in movie theatres and on aircraft, the law reflects the fact that the number of people allowed in should not exceed the number who can be seated.\n\nUse of the term \"public capacity\" indicates that a venue is allowed to hold more people than it can actually seat. Again, the maximum total number of people can refer to either the physical space available or limitations set by law.\n\n"}
{"id": "3214490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3214490", "title": "Sheriff officer", "text": "Sheriff officer\n\nA sheriff officer is an officer of the Scottish sheriff court, responsible for serving documents and enforcing court orders.\n\nThe jurisdiction of a sheriff officer is limited to the area of their commission (the relevant sheriffdom or Sheriff Court district), unlike messengers-at-arms (the equivalent officers of the Court of Session, who have jurisdiction throughout Scotland). Both messengers-at-arms and sheriff officers are employed by private businesses and charge fees that are set by Act of Sederunt.\n\nSheriff officers have been under the control of the local Sheriff for centuries. The office of sheriff officer is thought to be one of the oldest in the Scottish legal system, and may derive from the pre-feudal office of mair (an official who attended a sheriff for arrestment or executions).\n\nSection 60 of the Bankruptcy and Diligence etc. (Scotland) Act 2007 would have abolished the offices of messenger-at-arms and sheriff officer and replaced them by a new office of \"judicial officer\". Judicial officers would have held a commission from the Lord President of the Court of Session under section 57 of the Act, granted on the recommendation of a Scottish Civil Enforcement Commission. However, on 30 January 2008 the Scottish Government announced as part of a package of public service reform that the Scottish Civil Enforcement Commission would not be established and that its functions would be discharged by existing organisations. The provisions of the 2007 Act were not brought into force, and are to be repealed by the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010.\n\nIn November 2010, the Scottish Government issued a consultation on the designation of a professional organisation for officers of court.\n\n"}
{"id": "1460494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1460494", "title": "Subject-matter jurisdiction", "text": "Subject-matter jurisdiction\n\nSubject-matter jurisdiction is the authority of a court to hear cases of a particular type or cases relating to a specific subject matter. For instance, bankruptcy court only has the authority to hear bankruptcy cases.\n\nSubject-matter jurisdiction must be distinguished from personal jurisdiction, which is the power of a court to render a judgment against a particular defendant, and territorial jurisdiction, which is the power of the court to render a judgment concerning events that have occurred within a well-defined territory. Unlike personal or territorial jurisdiction, lack of subject-matter jurisdiction cannot be waived. A judgment from a court that did not have subject-matter jurisdiction is forever a nullity. To decide a case, a court must have a combination of subject (\"subjectam\") and either personal (\"personam\") or territorial (\"locum\") jurisdiction.\n\nSubject-matter jurisdiction, personal or territorial jurisdiction, and adequate notice are the three most fundamental constitutional requirements for a valid judgment.\n\nIn the United States, many state court systems are divided into divisions such as criminal, civil law, family, and probate. A court within any one of those divisions would lack subject-matter jurisdiction to hear a case regarding matters assigned to another division. Most U.S. state court systems, however, include a superior court that has \"general\" jurisdiction; that is, it is competent to hear any case over which no other state court has exclusive jurisdiction. Because the United States federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction over a very small percentage of cases, such as copyright disputes, patent disputes, and United States bankruptcy court disputes, state courts have the authority to hear the vast majority of cases.\n\nSubject-matter jurisdiction is significantly more limited in United States federal courts. The maximal constitutional bounds of federal courts' subject-matter jurisdiction are defined by Article III Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution. Federal courts' actual subject-matter jurisdiction derives from Congressional enabling statutes, such as and . The United States Congress has not extended federal courts' subject-matter jurisdiction to its constitutional limits. For example, the amount-in-controversy requirement for diversity jurisdiction is based on , not a constitutional restriction. Moreover, Congress could constitutionally overrule the complete-diversity rule in diversity cases.\n\nBy far the most important two categories of federal subject-matter jurisdiction in non-criminal cases are federal question jurisdiction and diversity jurisdiction. The enabling statute for federal question jurisdiction, , provides that the district courts have original jurisdiction in \"all civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States\". As mentioned before, this jurisdiction is ordinarily not exclusive; states too can hear claims based on federal law. The enabling statute for diversity jurisdiction, 28 U.S.C. § 1332, grants the district courts jurisdiction in an action that meets two basic conditions:\n\n\nFederal courts also have removal jurisdiction, which is the authority to try cases removed by defendants from state courts. The contours of removal jurisdiction are almost identical to those of original jurisdiction.\n\nAccording to Rule 12(b)(1) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, a federal court has the authority to dismiss a case for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction upon motion of a party or \"sua sponte\", upon its own initiative.\n\nIn federal criminal cases (offenses against the laws of the United States), the federal district courts of the United States have subject matter jurisdiction granted under .\n"}
{"id": "12252243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12252243", "title": "Taxation of private equity and hedge funds", "text": "Taxation of private equity and hedge funds\n\nPrivate equity funds and hedge funds are private investment vehicles used to pool investment capital, usually for a small group of large institutional or wealthy individual investors. They are subject to favorable regulatory treatment in most jurisdictions from which they are managed, which allows them to engage in financial activities that are off-limits for more regulated companies. Both types of fund also take advantage of generally applicable rules in their jurisdictions to minimize the tax burden on their investors, as well as on the fund managers. As media coverage increases regarding the growing influence of hedge funds and private equity, these tax rules are increasingly under scrutiny by legislative bodies. Private equity and hedge funds choose their structure depending on the individual circumstances of the investors the fund is designed to attract.\n\nA private equity or hedge fund located in the United States will typically be structured as a limited partnership, due to the lack of an entity-level tax on partnerships and other flow-through entities under the U.S. tax system. The limited partners will be the institutional and individual investors. The general partner will be an affiliate of the manager of the fund. Typically, the manager of the hedge fund is compensated with a fee based on 2% of the gross assets of the fund, and a profits interest entitling the manager (or, more typically, its affiliated general partner) to 20% of the fund's return (subject, in many cases, to minimum guaranteed returns for the limited partners).\n\nBecause the manager is compensated with a profits interest in the fund, the bulk of its income from the fund is taxed, not as compensation for services, but as a return on investment. Typically, when a partner receives a profits interest (commonly referred to as a \"carried interest\"), the partner is not taxed upon receipt, due to the difficulty of ascertaining the present value of an interest in future profits. Instead, the partner is taxed as the partnership earns income. In the case of a hedge fund, this means that the partner defers taxation on the income that the hedge fund earns, which is typically ordinary income (or possibly short-term capital gains), due to the nature of the investments most hedge funds make. Private equity funds, however, typically invest on a longer horizon, with the result that\nincome earned by the funds is long-term capital gain, taxable to individuals at a maximum 20% rate. Because the 20% profits share typically is the bulk of the manager’s compensation, and because this compensation can reach, in the case of the most successful funds, enormous figures, concern has been raised, both in Congress and in the media, that managers are taking advantage of tax loopholes to receive what is effectively a salary without paying the ordinary 39.6% marginal income tax rates that an average person would have to pay on such income. To address this concern, Congressman Sander M. Levin introduced , which would eliminate the ability of persons performing investment adviser or similar services to partnerships to receive capital gains tax treatment on their income. However, the Treasury Department has suggested, both in testimony before the Senate Finance\nCommittee and in public speaking engagements, that altering the tax treatment of a single industry raises tax policy concerns, and that changing the way partnerships in general are taxed is something that should only be done after careful consideration of the potential impact.\n\nCongressman Charles B. Rangel included a revised version of H.R. 2834 as part of the \"Mother of All Tax Reform\" and the 2007 House extenders package. A line item on taxing carried interest at ordinary income rates was included in the Obama Administration's 2008 Budget Blueprint. On April 2, 2009, Congressman Levin introduced a new and substantially revised version of the carried interest legislation as . On May 28, 2010, the House approved carried interest legislation as part of amendments to the Senate-passed version of . On February 14, 2012, Congressman Levin introduced .\n\nIn mid-2007, the Blackstone group, a major private equity fund, went public. Ordinarily, a publicly traded partnership is taxed as a corporation. There is, however, an exception for publicly traded partnerships earning only “passive-type” income, such as interest and dividends. Although the investments made by a private equity fund are actively managed, Blackstone took the position that the investments they engaged in fell squarely within literal language of this exception to the usual treatment for publicly traded partnerships. To address what they viewed as a loophole in the law, Senators Baucus and Grassley introduced S. 1624, which would remove the ability for publicly traded partnerships performing asset-management and related services to avoid being taxed as\ncorporations. The result of this bill would be to change the tax treatment of private equity and hedge funds from a single level of taxation at a 15% rate (or 35% in the case of most hedge funds) to a corporate-level tax of 35%, plus a 15% tax on dividends when distributed. While acknowledging that there are concerns with the current treatment of publicly traded partnerships, Treasury Secretary Paulson has declined to endorse the treatment that would be provided under S. 1624.\n\nThe House extenders package included a carried interest provision that would apply to publicly traded partnerships beginning in tax years after 31 December 2009.\n\nVarious private equity and hedge fund managers followed Fortress, the first fund manager to go public as a PTP. The funds include Oaktree, Blackstone Group, Och-Ziff, KKR, Apollo Global Management, and Carlyle Group.\n\nAlthough a partnership structure is advantageous for most investors due to the elimination of an entity-level tax, it is not the desired form for all investors. In particular, foreign investors and domestic tax-exempt organizations both have reasons to prefer to interpose a corporation in the private equity or hedge fund structure.\n\nForeign investors are generally not required to file tax returns unless they have “effectively connected income,” derived from the active conduct of a U.S. trade or business. Passive investment in a corporation does not give rise to a U.S. trade or business. However, active investment management of the type performed by private equity funds or hedge funds typically does. Because partners in a partnership are treated as engaged in whatever business the partnership itself is engaged in, this means that if a foreign investor invests in a hedge fund or private equity fund, it will generally be forced to file a U.S. tax return. To avoid this requirement, a foreign investor will often invest through a blocker corporation (usually located in the Cayman Islands or another offshore jurisdiction). The corporation itself will be required to file U.S. tax returns, and will pay taxes at the normal U.S.\ncorporate tax rate, but the foreign investor will receive only dividends or capital gains from the blocker, and will therefore not be required to file a U.S. return. As an alternative to the “blocker” structure, hedge funds seeking to attract foreign investors can also structure as partnerships, but simply restrict themselves to activities that are not treated as a U.S. trade or business. For example, U.S. tax law provides that trading in securities for the taxpayer’s own account will not constitute a U.S. trade or business. Thus foreign hedge funds formed as corporations do not generally pay corporate income tax.\n\nDomestic tax-exempt entities face similar concerns when investing in funds structured as partnerships. While tax-exempt on income related to their tax-exempt purpose, tax exempt entities are required to file tax returns and pay income tax on “unrelated business taxable income,” commonly referred to as UBTI. Because the activities of an entity structured as a partnership flow through to its investors, if the partnership receives income that would be UBTI in the hands of the tax-exempt investor, the investor is forced to file an income-tax return and pay unrelated business income tax. To avoid this requirement, tax exempt entities use offshore blocker corporations in much the same way foreign investors do. To date, no bill has been introduced to change this treatment, although concerns over the tax gap have led to increased scrutiny of business structures involving offshore corporations in general. For example, in May 2007, the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing about offshore structures\nused for tax evasion.\n"}
{"id": "26103792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26103792", "title": "Terrorist Bombings Convention", "text": "Terrorist Bombings Convention\n\nThe Terrorist Bombings Convention (formally the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings) is a 1997 United Nations treaty designed to criminalize terrorist bombings.\n\nThe convention describes terrorist bombings as the unlawful and intentional use of explosives in public places with intention to kill, to injure, or to cause extensive destruction to compel a government or an international organization to do or to abstain from doing some act.\n\nThe convention also seeks to promote police and judicial co-operation to prevent, investigate and punish those acts.\n\nAs of September 2018, the convention has been ratified by 170 states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9170742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9170742", "title": "Treaty of Lima (1929)", "text": "Treaty of Lima (1929)\n\nThe Tacna–Arica compromise or Treaty of Lima was a series of documents that settled the territorial dispute of both Tacna and Arica provinces of Peru and Chile respectively. According to the Treaty, the Tacna-Arica Territory was divided between both countries; Tacna being awarded to Peru and with Chile retaining sovereignty over Arica. Chile also agreed to pay up to 6 million dollars in compensation to Peru.\n\nThe Treaty was signed on June 3, 1929, in the city of Lima by then Peruvian Representative Pedro José Rada y Gamio and Chilean Representative Emiliano Figueroa Larrain.\n\nThe controversy was a direct aftermath of the War of the Pacific (1879–1883), a confrontation that involved Chile against Peru and Bolivia. Chile won the war and conquered the Peruvian territories of Tarapacá, Tacna and Arica. The defeated Peruvian government was forced to sign the Treaty of Ancón in 1883.\n\nIn this Treaty, Tarapacá was annexed to Chile. However, the fate of both Tacna and Arica was to be decided by a plebiscite to be held in 1893. Due to different points of view, both countries were not able to agree on the conditions of this plebiscite. So, it was not held. Then Chile began to colonize the two territories in 1909. Peru followed in 1911 with a break of diplomatic relations. In 1922, Chile and Peru agreed to arbitrate the dispute with the President of the United States. President Coolidge appointed, in 1925, the first US arbitrator, General John J. Pershing; General William Lassiter followed in 1926. Neither negotiator was able to break the deadlock. US Secretary of State Frank B. Kellogg suggested direct negotiations in Washington, D.C. in 1928. It was these negotiations that led to the Treaty of Lima (1929).\n\nThe deal that was finally reached allowed Peru to reacquire Tacna while Chile kept Arica. Chile had also to make some concessions such as building a Peruvian-administered wharf in Arica and pay a six million-dollar indemnification, among other provisions. In 1999, Chile and Peru at last agreed to fully implement the Treaty of Lima, providing Peru with access to port facilities in Arica.\n\n"}
{"id": "9807143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9807143", "title": "Treaty of Vienna (1866)", "text": "Treaty of Vienna (1866)\n\nAccording to the Treaty of Vienna signed on 12 October 1866, the Austrian Empire ceded Venetia and Mantua to the French Empire, which in turn would cede them to the Kingdom of Italy in exchange for the earlier Italian acquiescence to the French annexation of Savoy and Nice, under the reservation of the \"consent of the people duly consulted\". This represented the final division of the Kingdom of Lombardy-Venetia, as Lombardy had been ceded to the Kingdom of Sardinia by the Treaty of Zurich in 1859.\n\n"}
{"id": "6136109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6136109", "title": "War and environmental law", "text": "War and environmental law\n\nWar can heavily damage the environment, and warring countries often place operational requirements ahead of environmental concerns for the duration of the war. Some international law is designed to limit this environmental harm.\n\nWar and military activities have obvious detrimental impacts on the environment. Weaponry, troop movements, land mines, creation and destruction of buildings, destruction of forests by defoliation or general military usage, poisoning of water sources, target-shooting of animals for practice, consumption of endangered species out of desperation etc., are just some of the examples of how both war and peacetime military activities (such as training, base construction, and transportation of weaponry) harm the environment.\n\nFrom a legal standpoint, environmental protection during times of war and military activities is addressed partially by international environmental law. Further sources are also found in areas of law such as general international law, the laws of war, human rights law and local laws of each affected country. However, this article is chiefly focused on the environment and as soon as two countries are battling it out, the issue becomes one of international concern. Thus, international environmental law that the United Nations Security Council enforces is the focus here.\n\nThe law of armed conflict is not very well developed in comparison to other areas of international law. Only the United Nations Security Council has the authority and the jurisdiction to regulate its development and implementation, or to monitor its observance.\n\nSeveral United Nations treaties, including the Fourth Geneva Convention, the 1972 World Heritage Convention and the 1977 Environmental Modification Convention have provisions to limit the environmental impacts of war or military activities.\n\nThe Environmental Modification Conventionis an international treaty prohibiting the military or other hostile use of environmental modification techniques having widespread, long-lasting or severe effects. The Convention bans weather warfare, which is the use of weather modification techniques for the purposes of inducing damage or destruction. This treaty is in force and has been ratified (accepted as binding) by leading military powers\n\nAttempts have been made to get a specific Geneva convention dealing with protection of the environment during times of armed conflict but so far this has not been successful.\n\nCustomary international law also has something to say about protection of the environment during times of armed conflict and military activities.\n\n\n\"States shall ... respect international law providing protection for the environment in times of armed conflict and cooperate in its further development, as necessary.\"\n\n\n\"[D]estruction of the environment not justified by military necessity and carried out wantonly is clearly contrary to existing international law.\"\n\nThe International Court of Justice advisory opinion on the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons considered the environment as a minor issue in regard to the legality of thermonuclear war but it did not find all thermonuclear war to be prohibited.\n\n\nThe international organisations with environmental mandates may be called upon during times of armed conflict to assist with mediating or remedying damage caused by armed conflict. Such agencies as the UN Environment Programme, the World Health Organization and the International Maritime Organization will be of relevance here. The UN Security Council has also demonstrated environmental concern in deliberations on recent conflicts, for example, during the 1991 Gulf War. UNEP and IMO were also involved in this conflict, attempting to remedy the most serious of the environmental impacts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193618", "title": "Webster–Ashburton Treaty", "text": "Webster–Ashburton Treaty\n\nThe Webster–Ashburton Treaty, signed August 9, 1842, was a treaty that resolved several border issues between the United States and the British North American colonies (the region that became Canada). Signed under John Tyler's presidency, it resolved the Aroostook War, a nonviolent dispute over the location of the Maine–New Brunswick border. It:\n\nThe treaty retroactively confirmed the southern boundary of Quebec that land surveyors John Collins and Thomas Valentine had marked with stone monuments in 1771–1773. The treaty intended that the border be at 45 degrees north latitude, but is in some places nearly a half mile north of the parallel. The treaty was signed by United States Secretary of State Daniel Webster and British diplomat Alexander Baring, 1st Baron Ashburton.\n\nAn arbitration of various border issues in the East before King William I of the Netherlands in 1831 had failed to yield a binding decision.\n\nThe Treaty of Paris had established the 45th parallel as part of the northern boundary of modern-day New York and Vermont. Most of that portion of the boundary had previously been surveyed in the early 1770s, but the survey line was inaccurate. Since \"Fort Blunder\"—an unnamed U.S. fort in what is now part of northeastern New York—had been constructed north of the actual 45th parallel, the United States wanted to follow the old survey line, and the Webster–Ashburton treaty incorporated this change, leaving the half-finished fort on U.S. soil. Following signing of the treaty, the U.S. resumed construction on the site. The new project replaced the aborted 1812-era construction with a massive third-system masonry fortification known as Fort Montgomery.\n\nThis treaty marked the end of local confrontations between lumberjacks (known as the Aroostook War) along the Maine border with the British colonies of Lower Canada (which later became Quebec) and New Brunswick. The newly agreed border divided the disputed territory between the two nations. The British were assigned the Halifax–Quebec road route, which their military desired because Lower Canada had no other connection in winter to New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. The treaty adjusted portions of the border to give the United States a little more land to the north. It also resolved issues that had led to the Indian Stream dispute as well as the \"Caroline\" Affair. The Indian Stream area was assigned to the United States. The Webster–Ashburton Treaty failed to clarify ownership of Machias Seal Island and nearby North Rock, which remain in dispute today. Additionally, the signing of the treaty put an end to several building improvements planned for Upper Canadian defense forts such as Fort Malden in Amherstburg, which the British government later abandoned, as they no longer served a defensive purpose.\n\nThe border between Lake Superior and the Lake of the Woods needed clarification because the faulty Mitchell Map used in the negotiations for the Treaty of Paris was inadequate to define the border according to the terms of that treaty. Ambiguity in the map and treaty resulted in Minnesota's Arrowhead region being disputed, and previous negotiations had not resolved the question. The treaty had the border pass through Long Lake, but did not state that lake's location. However, the map showed the lake flowing into Lake Superior near Isle Royale, which is consistent with the Pigeon River route.\n\nThe British, however, had previously taken the position that the border should leave Lake Superior at \"Fond du Lac\" (the \"head of the lake\") in modern Duluth, Minnesota, proceed up the Saint Louis and Embarrass rivers, across the height of land, and down Pike River and Lake Vermilion to the Rainy River.\n\nTo counter this western route, the U.S. advocated for an eastern route, used by early French explorer Jacques de Noyon in 1688, and the later a well-used fur traders' route after 1802. This way headed north from the lake at the site of Fort William up the Kaministiquia and Dog Rivers to Cold Water Lake, crossed the divide by Prairie Portage to Height of Land Lake, then went west by way of the Savanne, Pickerel, and Maligne rivers to Lake La Croix, where it joined the present border.\n\nThe Mitchell map had shown both of those routes, and also showed the \"Long Lake\" route between them. Long Lake was thought to be the Pigeon River (despite the absence of a lake at its mouth).\n\nThe traditional traders' route left the Lake at Grand Portage and went overland to the Pigeon, up that river and a tributary across the Height of Land Portage, and thence down tributaries of the Rainy River to Lac La Croix, Rainy Lake and River, and Lake of the Woods. This is finally the route the treaty designated as the border.\n\nThe treaty clarified the channel that the border would follow between Lake Huron and Lake Superior, awarding Sugar Island to the U.S.\n\nAnother clarification made in this treaty resulted in clarifying the anomaly of the Northwest Angle. Again, due to errors on the Mitchell Map, Treaty of Paris reads \"... through the Lake of the Woods to the most northwesternmost point thereof, and from thence on a due west course to the river Mississippi ...\" In fact, a course due west from the Lake of the Woods never intersects the Mississippi. The Anglo-American Convention of 1818 defined the boundary about Lake of the Woods to the Rocky Mountains.\n\nThis 1842 treaty reaffirmed the border and further defined it by modifying the border definition to instead read as: \n\nThe Webster–Ashburton Treaty failed to deal with the Oregon question, although the issue was discussed in negotiations.\n\nArticle 10 of the Webster–Ashburton Treaty identified seven crimes subject to extradition: \"murder, or assault with intent to commit murder, or piracy, or arson, or robbery, or forgery, or the utterance of forged paper.\" It did not include slave revolt or mutiny. In addition, the United States did not press for the return or extradition of an estimated 12,000 fugitive slaves who had reached Canada.\n\nWhile agreeing to call for a final end to the slave trade on the high seas, Webster and Ashburton agreed to pass over the Creole case of 1841 in the Caribbean, which was then in contention. In November 1841, a slave revolt on the American brig \"Creole,\" part of the coastwise slave trade, had forced the ship to Nassau. Bahama officials eventually emancipated all 128 slaves who chose to stay in Nassau, as Britain had abolished slavery in its colonies, effective in 1834. The U.S. initially demanded return of the slaves, then compensation. A settlement was made in 1855 as part of a much larger claims treaty of 1853, covering claims by both nations to 1814.\n\nAs a result of the Webster–Ashburton Treaty, the United States ceded of disputed territory along the Maine border, including the Halifax–Quebec Route, but kept of the disputed wilderness. In addition, the United States received of land along the Minnesota–Canada border, which included the Mesabi Range. Shortly after ratification of the Webster–Ashburton treaty, the Ojibwa nations about the south shore of Lake Superior ceded land to the United States in the Treaty of La Pointe. However, the news of the ratification of the international treaty did not reach either of the parties negotiating the land cession. The Grand Portage Band was mistakenly omitted from the Ojibwe treaty council. In addition, the Grand Portage Band was misinformed on the details of the Treaty of Paris; they believed that the border passed through the center of Lake Superior to the Saint Louis River, placing both Isle Royale and their band in British territory. The Treaty of Paris specifically notes Isle Royale as in the territories of the United States. Consequently, the Isle Royale Agreement was signed between the United States and the Grand Portage Band in 1844 as an adhesion to the Treaty of La Pointe, with other Ojibwa tribes reaffirming the treaty.\n\nTen months of negotiations for the treaty were held largely at the Ashburton House, home of the British legation on Lafayette Square in Washington, D.C. The house has been designated a U.S. National Historic Landmark.\n\nTo make the controversial treaty more popular in the United States, Webster released a map of the Maine–Canada border, which he claimed Benjamin Franklin had drawn. It showed contested areas largely resolved in favor of the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4179861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4179861", "title": "White Lead (Painting) Convention, 1921", "text": "White Lead (Painting) Convention, 1921\n\nWhite Lead (Painting) Convention, 1921 is an International Labour Organization Convention established in 1921 to advance the prohibition of using white lead in paint.\n\nAs of 2017 many leading global nations, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, China and India remain outside the organization.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 63 states:\n"}
{"id": "158883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158883", "title": "Writ of prohibition", "text": "Writ of prohibition\n\nA writ of prohibition is a writ directing a subordinate to stop doing something the law prohibits. In practice, the court directs the clerk to issue the writ, and directs the sheriff to serve it on the subordinate, and the clerk prepares the writ and gives it to the sheriff, who serves it. This writ is often issued by a superior court to the lower court asking it not to proceed with a case which does not fall under its jurisdiction.\n\nThese writs are issued as \"alternative\" or \"peremptory\". An alternative writ directs the recipient to immediately act, or desist, and \"show cause\" why the directive should not be made permanent. A peremptory writ directs the recipient to immediately act, or desist, and \"return\" the writ, with certification of its compliance, within a certain time.\n\nWhen an agency of an official body is the target of the writ of prohibition, the writ is directed to the official body over which the court has direct jurisdiction, ordering the official body to cause the agency to desist.\n\nAlthough the rest of this article speaks to judicial processes, a writ of prohibition may be directed by any court of record (i.e., higher than a misdemeanor court) toward any official body, whether a court or a county, city or town government, that is within the court's jurisdiction.\n\nA \"writ of prohibition\", in the United States, is an official legal document drafted and issued by a supreme court, superior court or an appeals court to a judge presiding over a suit in an inferior court. The writ of prohibition mandates the inferior court to cease any action over the case because it may not fall within that inferior court's jurisdiction. The document is also issued at times when it is deemed that an inferior court is acting outside the normal rules and procedures in the examination of a case. In another instance, the document is issued at times when an inferior court is deemed headed towards defeating a legal right.\n\nIn criminal proceedings, a defendant who has been committed for trial may petition to the superior court for a writ of prohibition, in this case on the ground that his conduct, even if proven, does not constitute the offense charged.\n\nProhibition is more often used by appellate courts. Most often, these courts issue writs of prohibition to prevent lower courts from exceeding their jurisdiction. In some cases, this writ may also be used to prevent an inferior court from acting contrary to the rules of natural justice. The writ of prohibition may not be used to undo any previous acts, but only to prohibit acts not completed.\n\n\"Thus it was held that notwithstanding the right to an appeal, if the situation disclosed be such that to take the ordinary course by appeal would of itself subject the complainant to irreparable loss, the writ should issue notwithstanding no objection was made below; that the matter of judicial courtesy should yield to substantial personal rights of litigants, such as a sacrifice of their liberty.\"\n\nWrits of prohibition are similar to writs of certiorari, as both types of writs allow superior courts to manage inferior courts. However, unlike a writ of prohibition, superior courts issue writs of certiorari to review decisions which inferior courts have already made.\n\nA writ of prohibition is issued primarily to prevent an inferior court or tribunal from exceeding its jurisdiction in cases pending before it or acting contrary to the rules of natural justice. It is issued by a superior court to inferior courts from usurping a jurisdiction with which it was not legally vested, or in other words to compel inferior courts to keep within the limits of their jurisdiction. Thus the writ is issued in both cases where there is excess of jurisdiction and where there is absence of jurisdiction. Prohibition is not a continuation of the proceedings to be prohibited. Its object is on the contrary to arrest the inferior tribunal's proceedings. It is a collateral matter progress essentially between the two tribunals, an inferior one and other superior one by which the latter, by virtue its power of superintendence over the former, restrains it within its rightful competence. Its nature is held to depend upon the nature of proceeding to be prohibited. The writ can be issued only when the proceedings are pending in a court if the proceeding has matured into decision, writ will not lie. When the court, before whom the matter is pending, has ceased to exist, in that condition too, the writ of prohibition will not lie because there can be no proceedings upon which it can operate but on the other hand, if the court is functioning, the writ can be issued at any stage of the proceeding before the inferior court or tribunal. It can be issued only against a judicial and quasi-judicial bodyand not against a legislative or administrative body.\n\nThe writs of prohibition were the main means by which the managing common law courts, the King's Bench and Common Pleas, restricted other courts from overstepping their jurisdictional boundaries. The writs originally functioned like administrative orders, though over time they acquired the power of legal commands. Writs could be issued against another court or an individual defendant, somewhat similar to the way an injunction works in courts today. The writs of Prohibition were primarily used against the ecclesiastical courts. However, they were also used against the equity courts, admiralty courts, and local courts. The highest of the equity courts was the Chancery, but although as a fact of law the Chancery could be prohibited, it rarely, if ever, was.\n\nNot obeying a writ could result in imprisonment, fine, or possible damages in favor of the opposing party.\n\nThe rise in the use of writs of prohibition accompanied the consolidation of power in the English monarchy and the growth of the court system in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. The Angevin kings, who split their time between England and France, needed strong and competent advisors to help run the government in England when they were gone. The growth of the royal bureaucracy accompanied the codification of much of the existing common law with the First Statute of Westminster (1275), which was passed during Edward I's reign. The common law courts and legal interpretation by common law judges began to become more formalized as judges moved from the role of primary lawmakers to the interpreters of statutes. While the earlier courts had had more flexibility to provide both legal and equitable relief, over the period from the late thirteenth century to the end of the fourteenth century, the consideration of equity gradually disappeared in common law courts, which was one of the reasons the Chancery, which existed before to keep the King’s Great Seal and stamp it on public documents, emerged as a separate judicial court. As the common law courts became more formalized and rigid in their procedure and jurisprudence, they also ceased using the writ of prohibition as a remedy against individual defendants.\n\nThere were occasional disputes among the courts when there were disagreements about what court was the proper place to hear a certain issue. For example, the ecclesiastical courts claimed they had the right to enforce contracts that were formalized by oath, as they involved a spiritual matter of whether the oath had properly been made, though common lawyers disagreed. In some instances, however, the non-common law courts were able to provide relief where the common law courts could not. The Chancery, unlike the common law court, could provide remedies in cases involving trusts and uses and could give relief based on fraud, accident, or mistake to plaintiffs. As courts of equity provided new relief that before had been encompassed by but limited in the common law courts, writs of prohibition helped prevent plaintiffs from being able to \"forum shop\" for the court that would be most favorable to their position. Any plaintiff who could gain adequate relief in a common law court was prohibited from bringing his case in a different court, even if he preferred the procedure, allowable defenses, or possible remedies of a different court.\n\nThe use of the writ of prohibition also varied with the relationship between the Chancery and the common law judges. While at the beginning of the transformation of the Chancery into a judicial body, the common law judges often cooperated in helping the new court decide cases or even referred plaintiffs who had equitable claims. Over time, however, the relationship declined as plaintiffs chose to seek relief in the Chancery, which was the fourth most popular major court by 1450. In the first half of the fifteenth century, litigants chose to bring their cases there because, despite its growing popularity, the Chancery still saw many fewer cases than the common law court, which allowed cases to be resolved more quickly than in the common law courts, which were known for being slow. Additionally, the Chancery allowed testimony of interested parties and witnesses and could compel discovery and specific relief, which the common law courts could not.\n\nIn the 13th century, the writs of prohibition were issued by the Chancery. However, by the later half of the 16th century, the writs of prohibition had become a judicial writ. That meant that if a party wanted to halt proceedings in another court on the grounds that the presiding court did not have proper jurisdictional authority, the party would petition the managing courts to do one of the following things: (1) eliminate liability altogether by applying common law, (2) have the case be sued \"de novo\" at common law, or (3) secure trial by the common law method of a jury or judicial ruling. Prior to deciding whether or not to grant the writ, the managing court would usually allow for open-court debate between the plaintiff seeking prohibition, the defendant opposing prohibition, and/or the judges themselves. However, writs of prohibition could be granted without such debate.\n\nIf a party wanted to contest the granting of a writ of prohibition, they could do so in two ways. The first was a contempt proceeding called the \"Attachment on Prohibition\", wherein the plaintiff and defendant would plead before the managing court on the validity of the writ. Alternatively, the parties could seek to reverse the writ of prohibition by seeking a writ of Consultation.\n\nAs writs of prohibition were rather easy to obtain, in the late thirteenth century, writs of Consultation came into use. If a prohibited party or judge felt that a case rightly fell within the prohibited court's jurisdiction, they could question its appropriateness before the Chancellor. If the Chancellor agreed, he could issue a writ of Consultation, reversing the writ of prohibition and allowing the case to continue in the ecclesiastical court.\n\nIn addition to threatening the king's authority, the existence of jurisdictional overlap jeopardized the uniformity of legal remedies by allowing for forum-shopping. For example, both the king and the Church claimed jurisdiction over disputes between executors and debtors and between creditors and executors. In the Church's eyes, the right of the executor to collect debts from a decedent's debtors and the right of creditors to enforce theirs claims against a decedent’s estate were \"a proper part of probate administration\". Thus, while for most obligations a testator would have to sue under common law, an executor or creditor could choose between initiating a proceeding in a secular or ecclesiastical court. By issuing a writ of prohibition restraining executors or creditors from suing in an ecclesiastical court, this inequitable disparity in forum options could be resolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "7169959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7169959", "title": "Yale Journal of Law and Technology", "text": "Yale Journal of Law and Technology\n\nThe Yale Journal of Law & Technology (YJoLT), formerly Yale Symposium on Law & Technology, is a law review of Yale Law School.\n\nThe 2014 Washington and Lee Law Review Rankings rated YJoLT the 75th overall law review, 30th in impact factor, the #1 online law review, and the #3 law review for \"intellectual property\" & \"science, technology, and computing.\"\n\n"}
