{"id": "20434522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20434522", "title": "Ahistoricism", "text": "Ahistoricism\n\nAhistoricism refers to a lack of concern for history, historical development, or tradition.\n\nCharges of ahistoricism are frequently critical, implying that the subject is historically inaccurate or ignorant (for example, an \"ahistorical\" attitude). It can also describe a person's failure to frame an argument or issue in a historical context or to disregard historical fact or implication. An example of that would be films including dinosaurs and prehistoric human beings living side by side, but they were, in reality, millions of years apart.\n\nThe term can also describe a view that history has no relevance or importance in the decision making of modern life.\n\nIn some academic contexts, ahistoricism is the accepted norm. For example, the history of science is generally considered a discipline that is quite separate and not directly important to research science.\n\nIn philosophy, some criticism has arisen because \"the dominant school of philosophy in the English speaking world, analytic philosophy... has been trenchantly ahistorical, and indeed anti-historical\". However, few view that to be a problem.\n\nA more abstract definition of ahistoricism is simply independence from time: removed from history.\nAn example is the idea that some concepts are not governed by what is learned or has happened, but they come from an ahistoric power that is independent of what has gone before.\n"}
{"id": "6730459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6730459", "title": "Averil Cameron", "text": "Averil Cameron\n\nDame Averil Millicent Cameron (born 8 February 1940), often cited as A. M. Cameron, is professor emerita of Late Antique and Byzantine History at the University of Oxford, and was formerly the Warden of Keble College, Oxford, between 1994 and 2010.\n\nCameron was born in Leek, Staffordshire, the only child of working-class parents. She read \"Literae Humaniores\" at Somerville College, Oxford, and was married to Alan Cameron, with whom she has a son and a daughter.\n\nFrom 1978 to 1994 Cameron taught at King's College, London, serving as Professor of Ancient History (1978–1989), Professor of Late Antique and Byzantine Studies (1989–1994), and Founding Director of the Centre for Hellenic Studies. In 1994 she was appointed Warden of Keble College, Oxford, where she served as Chair of the Conference of Colleges and as Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Chair of the Committee on the Sackler Library and the Advisory Committee on Honorary Degrees and sat on committees for Conflict of Interest, Select Preachers, the Bampton Lectures and the Wainwright Fund. She has served as Chair of a number of academic institutions, including the Oxford Centre for Byzantine Research, the Institute of Classical Studies Advisory Council, the Cathedrals Fabric Commission for England (1999–2005), and of the Prosopography of the Byzantine World.\n\nCameron has also acted as the President of multiple society including: the Ecclesiastical History Society (2005–2006), the Council for British Research in the Levant, and the Fédération internationale des associations d'études classiques (2009–2014);. From 2018 she will become President of the Society for the Promotion of Byzantine Studies (2018–2023).\n\nCameron holds honorary degrees from the Universities of Warwick, St Andrews, Aberdeen, Lund, the Queen's University of Belfast and London.\n\nCameron is a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London, the British Academy, the Ecclesiastical History Society (from 2001), King's College, London, the Royal Historical Society, and the Institute of Classical Studies, London.\n\nIn 2007 a \"Festschrift\" edited by Hagit Amirav and Bas ter Haar Romeny, \"From Rome to Constantinople: Studies in Honour of Averil Cameron\" (Leuven: Peeters), was published in Cameron's honour.\n\nCameron's early articles explored early Byzantine and early Medieval Latin writers such as Corippus, Procopius, and Gregory of Tours from literary and historical perspectives. Her early monographs, \"Agathias\" (1970) and \"Procopius and the Sixth Century\" (1985) were accompanied by a number of influential edited collections, including \"Images of Women in Antiquity\", edited jointly with Amélie Kuhrt (1983), and \"History as Text\" (1989). With \"Christianity and the Rhetoric of Empire: The Development of Christian Discourse\" (1990), Cameron sparked a scholarly conversation about 'the power of discourse in society' in later antiquity, seeking to understand 'how Christianity was able to develop a \"totalizing discourse\" ' (the phrase itself is borrowed from the work of Michel Foucault).\n\nCameron's mature scholarship has included substantial surveys such as \"The Later Roman Empire, AD 284-430\" (1993) and significant editorial commissions, including joint editorship of volumes 12, 13, and 14 of the \"Cambridge Ancient History\" (second edition) along with a number of influential studies on dialogue and debate in Byzantium from the early Christian period to the twelfth century.\n\n\nRecent articles include 'The Cost of Orthodoxy', \"Church History and Religious Culture\", vol. 93 (2013) 339-61, and 'Early Christianity and the discourse of female desire', repr. from \"Women in Ancient Societies\", ed. L. J. Archer, S. Fischler and M. Wyke (Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1994), 152-68, with an afterword, in \"The Religious History of the Roman Empire. Pagans, Jews and Christians\", ed. J.A. North and S.R.F. Price (\"Oxford readings in Classical Studies,\" Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011), 505-30, and 'Byzantium and the limits of Orthodoxy', Raleigh Lecture in History, (\"Proceedings of the British Academy\" 154 2008), 139-52.\n"}
{"id": "762947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762947", "title": "British Archaeological Association", "text": "British Archaeological Association\n\nThe British Archaeological Association (BAA) was founded in 1843 and aims to inspire, support and disseminate high quality research in the fields of Western archaeology, art and architecture, primarily of the mediæval period, through lectures, conferences, study days and publications.\n\nThe BAA was founded in December 1843 by Charles Roach Smith, Thomas Wright and Thomas Joseph Pettigrew, to encourage the recording, preservation, and publication of archaeological discoveries, and to lobby for government assistance for the collection of British antiquities. All three men were Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries of London but felt the older body was too aristocratic, too London-focused and lacked the campaigning vigour required. The naming of the new body was symbolic: British referred to the campaign for a museum of British Antiquities, Archaeological differentiated their field from older antiquarian methods and Association had reformist, even revolutionary, overtones. Smith became its first secretary and arranged the first six annual congresses. Although he remained one of the secretaries until 1851, he had effectively resigned the post in 1849.\n\nOne of the aims of the association was to promote dialogue between self-identified experts and local archaeologists, to be achieved through the organization of an annual congress, along the model of the French Congres Archaeologique or the annual meetings of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. The first meeting was held in Canterbury in 1844. The site, with its magnificent cathedral, had obvious appeal and was close to the seat of the association’s first president, Lord Albert Conyngham (1805-1860). The Canterbury Congress occasioned the dispute which led to a split and the formation of the Archæological Institute (AI). The public reason for the feud was the publication by Thomas Wright of \"The Archæological Album, or, Museum of National Antiquities\" (1845), a commercial publication from which Wright drew profit. This infuriated Oxford publisher John Henry Parker, who was to have been the publisher of the official proceedings. Behind the scenes, however, the dispute had other dimensions, both social (all the founders of the BAA were 'trade', the seceding members of the AI considered themselves to be socially superior) and religious (the \"Oxford Chronicle\" of 16 August 1845 suggested that the dispute had acquired Tractarian/anti-Tractarian overtones).\n\nThe nineteenth-century passion for archaeology meant that both the BAA and the AI (later the Royal Archaeological Institute) flourished, although the earlier society retained the reputation for enthusiasm rather than elegance. In 1905, however, the BAA had reached a low ebb. The congress, held in Bath, made no money, the journal was delayed and many members were in arrears. The custom had emerged of electing as President a dignitary from the locality in which the next Congress was to take place. In 1905, the mayor of Reading was elected, to preside over a Congress in the same town. However, by the time the Congress took place, local landowner and former High Sheriff of Berkshire, Charles Edward Keyser, had become President. Keyser remained resident until his death in 1929.\n\nThe annual conference was revived in 1975, with the first of the new series being held in Worcester. Since then, the association has held an annual conference at a centre of established importance in the mediæval period, usually in the British Isles and occasionally in mainland Europe, collating the results of recent research on major cathedrals, minsters and abbeys and including visits to places of relevant interest. The conference proceedings are published as the \"British Archaeological Association Conference Transactions\".\n\nThe association's annual publication is The Journal of the British Archaeological Association.\n\n\nNB An index to the first 30 volumes of the association's journal was published in 1875\n\nDavid Wetherall, ‘From Canterbury to Winchester: the Foundation of the Institute’, in Blaise Vyner (ed.), Building on the Past: Celebrating 150 Years of the Royal Archaeological Institute (London, 1994), pp. 8–21\n\nDavid Wetherall, ‘The Growth of Archaeological Societies’, in Vanessa Brand (ed.), The Study of the Past in the Victorian Age, Oxbow Monograph 73 (Oxford, 1998), pp. 21–34.\n\n"}
{"id": "183558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183558", "title": "Christian Thomasius", "text": "Christian Thomasius\n\nChristian Thomasius (1 January 1655 – 23 September 1728) was a German jurist and philosopher.\n\nHe was born in Leipzig and was educated by his father, Jakob Thomasius (1622–1684), at that time head master of Thomasschule zu Leipzig. Through his father's lectures, Christian came under the influence of the political philosophy of Hugo Grotius and Samuel Pufendorf, and continued the study of law at the University of Frankfurt (Oder) in 1675, completing his doctorate in 1679. In 1680, he married Anna Christine Heyland and started a legal practice in Leipzig; the following year he began teaching at the university’s law school as well. In 1684 he became professor of natural law, soon attracting attention by his abilities, and particularly by his attack on traditional prejudices, in theology and jurisprudence. In 1685 he published a provocative dissertation, \"De crimine bigamiae\" (The crime of bigamy), in which he argued that bigamy is permissible under natural law.\n\nIn 1687 he made the daring innovation of lecturing in German instead of Latin and gave a lecture on the topic \"How One Should Emulate the French Way of Life,\" referring to the French use of their native language not only in everyday life but in scholarship as well; according to scholar Klaus Luig, this event marks the real beginning of the Enlightenment in Germany. In the following year he began publishing a monthly periodical (\"Scherzhafte und ernsthafte, vernüftige\" [sic] \"und einfältige Gedanken über allerhand lustige und nutzliche Bücher und Fragen\") in which he ridiculed the pedantic weaknesses of the learned, taking the side of the Pietists in their controversy with the orthodox, and defending mixed marriages of Lutherans and Calvinists; he also published a volume on natural law which emphasized natural reason and a paper defending marriage between Lutherans and members of the Reformed church.\n\nIn consequence of these and other views, on 10 May 1690 he was denounced from the pulpits, forbidden to lecture or to write, and his arrest was ordered. He escaped by going to Berlin, and the elector Frederick III offered him a refuge in Halle, with a salary of 500 thaler and permission to lecture. He helped found the University of Halle (1694), where he became second and then first professor of law and (in 1710) rector of the university. He was one of the most esteemed university teachers and influential writers of his day, and in 1709 he was appointed to the privy council.\n\nThough not a profound philosophical thinker, Thomasius prepared the way for great reforms in philosophy, as well as in law, literature, social life and theology. It was his mission to introduce a rational, common-sense point of view, and to bring the divine and human sciences to bear on the everyday world. He thus created an epoch in German literature, philosophy and law, and, along with Spittler, began the modern period of ecclesiastical history. One of the aims of his life was to free politics and jurisprudence from the control of theology. He fought bravely and consistently for freedom of thought and speech on religious matters and mediated between the academic and the public sphere. In this regard, he shared much in common with his disciple Gabriel Wagner, who subsequently objected to Thomasius' religious metaphysical beliefs. In law, he tried to prove that the rules of Roman law, which contradicted his own principles of natural law, had never actually been accepted and were therefore invalid; he also tried to legitimize his own principles by showing them to be common law built on Germanic foundations. In this way he contributed to the creation of scholarship of private law separate from that of Roman law.\n\nThomasius is often spoken of in German works as the author of the \"territorial system,\" or Erastian theory of ecclesiastical government; but he taught that the state may interfere with legal or public duties only, and not with moral or private ones. He would not have even atheists punished, though they should be expelled from the country, and he came forward as an earnest opponent of the prosecution of witches and of the use of torture. In theology he was not a naturalist or a deist, but a believer in the necessity of revealed religion for salvation. He came strongly under the influence of the pietists, particularly of Spener, and there was a mystic vein in his thought; but other elements of his nature were too powerful to allow him to attach himself wholly to that party.\n\nHe died in Halle in 1728.\n\nThomasius's most popular and influential German publications were his periodical already referred to (1688–1689); \"Einleitung zur Vernunftlehre\" (1691, 5th ed. 1719); \"Vernünflige Gedanken über allerhand auserlesene und juristische Handel\" (1720–1721); \"Historie der Weisheit und Torheit\" (3 vols., 1693); \"Kurze Lehrsätze van dem Laster der Zauberei mit dem Hexenprozess\" (1704); \"Weitere Erläuterungen der neueren Wissenschaft anderer Gedanken kennen zu lernen\" (1711). He expressed his pedagogical principles in two main Latin works, \"Institutiones iurisprudentiae divinae\" (Institutes of Divine Jurisprudence, 1688), based on a lecture on Pufendorf’s natural law, and \"Fundamenta juris naturae et gentium\" (Foundations of the Law of Nature and Nations, 1705).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "600530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=600530", "title": "Council for British Archaeology", "text": "Council for British Archaeology\n\nThe Council for British Archaeology (CBA) was established in 1944 and is an educational charity working throughout the United Kingdom to involve people in archaeology and to promote the appreciation and care of the historic environment for the benefit of present and future generations. It achieves this by promoting research, conservation and education, and by widening access to archaeology through effective communication and participation.\n\nThe origins of the CBA lie in the Congress of Archaeological Societies, founded in 1898, but it was in 1943, with the tide of war turning, that archaeologists in Britain began to contemplate the magnitude of tasks and opportunities that would confront them at the end of hostilities. In London alone more than 50 acre of the City lay in ruins awaiting redevelopment, while the historic centres of Bristol, Canterbury, Exeter, Southampton, and many other towns had suffered devastation. In response to a resolution from the Oxford Meeting of the Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies, Sir Alfred Clapham, then President of the Society of Antiquaries of London, called a meeting of the Congress of Archaeological Societies \"to discuss the requirements of archaeology in the post-war period\". As a result, it was agreed to form a Council for British Archaeology to promote, both collectively and through its members, British archaeology in all its aspects.\n\nThe new Council defined one of its objectives as the \"safeguarding of all kinds of archaeological material and the strengthening of existing measures for the care of ancient and historic buildings, monuments, and antiquities\". Following its first meeting in March 1944 under Clapham's Presidency (he was succeeded later that year by Sir Cyril Fox), the Council initiated local excavation committees in a number of war-damaged towns, began to seek information about reconstruction projects, and set its Regional Groups the task of watching sites of all kinds. The Congress of Archaeological Societies was quickly wound up, and one of the tasks that the CBA inherited from it was the drawing up of a Survey and Policy for Field Research, which was seen as fundamental to an integrated approach to the exploration of Britain's heritage. This monumental task was undertaken by Christopher Hawkes and Stuart Piggott (both subsequently CBA Presidents) and the first volume appeared in 1948. The CBA also recognised the need for adequate bibliographical backup for British archaeology, and the first volume of its regular \"Archaeological Bulletin\" (later renamed the \"Archaeological Bibliography\",) and now the online British and Irish Archaeological Bibliography first appeared in 1949.\n\nWithin five years the CBA had established the direction of its programme and key roles. It provides a forum and acts as a facilitator for opinion, ideas and policy development in British archaeology, connecting government, the media, and the public. It champions archaeology at all levels in education. It promotes and supports research, in the professional and voluntary sectors alike, with the essential services of its bibliographic information, digital resources, and publications. Today British archaeology is served by scores of specialist and thematic societies and groups. This busy scene did not exist in the early 1950s, when the Council set up six period-based Research Committees, spanning the whole of Britain's past from the Palaeolithic to the post-medieval period which, along with the Natural Sciences Panel (set up as early as 1945) had the remit of coordinating earlier initiatives, providing guidance where required, and establishing new projects on a national basis. In 1959 the CBA set up the first Industrial Archaeology Committee in the world. In 1965, the CBA's response to the Buchanan report \"Traffic in Towns\" introduced the concept of historic urban areas, as opposed to individual buildings or sites. Further CBA specialist Committees were established throughout the 1960s to 1980s. Further information on their many and varied remits, and the organisations which they then became, can be found here.\n\nToday the CBA's work is focused on three strategic areas: participation, discovery and advocacy which bring together its wide-ranging activities in education, research, publication, and information provision. More recently the CBA has adopted \"archaeology for all\" as its focus, concentrating on increasing opportunities for participation and learning through archaeology and the care of the historic environment. They work in partnership with many other heritage and environmental bodies and with educational and research institutions across the UK.\n\nAs one of the National Amenity Societies, the Council is a statutory consultee on alterations to listed buildings, and by law must be notified of any applications in England and Wales to demolish in whole or part any listed building.\n\nUntil 1993, \"membership\" of the CBA was limited to societies and organisations. Today there are over 600 institutional members, which range from village archaeological groups to museums, county societies, universities, commercial archaeological units and national bodies. Individual membership has climbed steadily since its introduction in 1993, and now exceeds 6,000. Through the eleven English Regional Groups, CBA Wales/Cymru and the Council for Scottish Archaeology (all of which have individual membership), the CBA provides a unique forum for the British archaeological community, and the public beyond.\n\nMembers of the CBA help to ensure they have the resources to develop their work in education, conservation and providing information, and strengthen the profile of archaeology in the minds of decision-makers. Members receive:\n\n\nYoung people up to the age of 16 can join their local Young Archaeologists' Club supported by the CBA.\n\nFrom its earliest years, the CBA has invested strongly in research support services for the UK archaeological community through its publication programme and latterly through a growing range of web-based resources and services. In addition to its role in facilitating, convening and disseminating the research of others, it has maintained its own programme of research.\n\nThe CBA's track record is principally in applied research to support its programmes in education, public participation and environmental protection. The CBA has also led research in key areas such as the impact of metal detecting on archaeology, television archaeology and the media, education outside the classroom, and assessment of information and data management needs for archaeology. The Mick Aston Archaeology Fund and the Marsh Award for Community Archaeology aim to foster and celebrate voluntary research in the historic environment.\n\nResearch themes relate to the CBA's central aim to increase opportunities for participation and learning through archaeology. Priority areas for research in partnership with major heritage organisations and other bodies in the sector are:\n\n1) Archaeology in the classroom and beyond: developing local and national identities\n2) Social outcomes and impacts of community archaeology and conservation projects\n3) Adapting archaeology: mediating climate change histories\n4) Innovation in managing digital media and serving up archaeological information to a wide audience\n\nThe CBA provides research support services through the \"CBA\" website, the \"TORC\"(Training Online Resource Centre) website, with its online guide to educational and research opportunities, and the extensive programme of publication and electronic dissemination outlined below.\n\nThe CBA provides electronic access to archaeological materials, information, interpretations and discussion.\n\nIt has published almost 200 books since 1945. Today, these publications take two main forms: the Research Report series publishes monographs of research into the archaeology of Britain, largely deriving from excavation, buildings and landscape surveys. The Practical Handbooks series is methodological, and aims to present straightforward summaries of topics for those new to a particular specialism. Further details of these are available on the website.\n\nIt also publishes \"British Archaeology\", a bi-monthly news magazine aimed at both the general reader and the academic. Since 1997, it has published the e-journal \"Internet Archaeology\". Since 1949, it has overseen the compilation of a comprehensive archaeological bibliography, now available free-of-charge online as the British and Irish Archaeological Bibliography. A programme of digitisation has enabled free, electronic access to much of the CBA's back catalogue of publications, including \"British Archaeology\" and many books and occasional papers.\n\nThe flagship CBA event each year is The Festival of Archaeology, held in July. This two-week event brings together around 500 excavation open days, guided tours, exhibitions, lectures, ancient art and craft workshops and much more. Over a hundred thousand people take part.\n\nIn September, the Weekend Event brings together CBA members and specialists to examine the archaeology of a particular region of the UK. The weekend also includes the annual Beatrice de Cardi lecture, in honour of the CBA’s first permanent secretary, and the CBA AGM. Each year, the CBA hosts its Winter General Meeting at the British Academy, featuring a series of lectures on a theme linking archaeology with a related discipline.\n\nIn addition, the twelve CBA English Regional Groups, CBA Wales/Cymru and Archaeology Scotland (formerly the Council for Scottish Archaeology), along with Branches of the Young Archaeologists’ Club, hold over a thousand events each year throughout the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "871192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=871192", "title": "Cromford", "text": "Cromford\n\nCromford is a village and civil parish in Derbyshire, England, in the valley of the River Derwent between Wirksworth and Matlock. It is first mentioned in the 11th-century Domesday Book as a berewick (supporting farm) of Wirksworth and this remained the case throughout the middle ages. The population at the 2011 Census was 1,433. It is principally known for its historical connection with Richard Arkwright, and the nearby Cromford Mill which he built outside the village in 1771. Cromford is in the Derwent Valley Mills World Heritage site.\n\nThe River Derwent, with its sources on Bleaklow in the Dark Peak, flows southward to Derby and then to the River Trent. The geology of this section in the Derbyshire Dales is that of limestone. The fast flowing river has cut a deep valley. The A6 trunk road, which was the main road between London and Manchester in former times; the Cromford Canal and the Derwent Valley Line, linking Derby and Matlock, were all built in the river valley. The Via Gellia valley joins the Derwent at Cromford, however, the stream which runs through that valley is actually the Ivonbrook and historically the valley was called the Ivonbrook Valley. The Via Gellia is simply the name of the road which runs along it, named after the Gell family who owned many mines in the area.\n\nThe A6 passes to the north of the village of Cromford; its land rises from 80m to 150m above mean sea level. It is north of Derby, south of Matlock and south of Matlock Bath. Trains operate from Cromford Station, on the north bank of the Derwent to Derby and Nottingham.\n\nIt is one of the significant sites in the development of the Industrial Revolution. Here, Richard Arkwright built his cotton mill to make use of the water frame.\n\nThe Gell family, who were local Hopton landowners heavily involved in the nearby Wirksworth lead mining district, had the Via Gellia built to connect Cromford and Grangemill in the late 18th century.\n\nSome cottages and farm buildings pre-date Arkwright's time, but a large part of the village was built to house the mill workers. They were provided with shops, pubs, chapels and a school.\n\nThe 20th century saw the development of council and private housing. Dene quarry, currently operated by Tarmac Ltd for the production of aggregates and roadstone, was excavated to the south west of the village from 1942 onwards.\nIn December 2001 a corridor from Masson Mill in Matlock Bath to the Silk Mill in Derby and including the mills in Cromford, Milford, Belper and Darley Abbey was declared the Derwent Valley Mills World Heritage Site.\n\nThe 1931 novel 'Saturday Night at the Greyhound' by John Hampson takes place over the course of one evening in the bar at the Greyhound Hotel, Cromford.\n\nIn late 2006, Anand Tucker used certain parts of Cromford, including its historic bookshop, for his film \"And When Did You Last See Your Father?\", based on the autobiographical memoir by poet Blake Morrison. Colin Firth plays the adult Blake, with Jim Broadbent cast as his dying father.\n\nA quarter of the German town Ratingen is named after Cromford, as this is where industrial pioneer Johann Gottfried Brügelmann 1783 erected the first factory outside England, using Arkwright's factory as an archetype. The factory today forms part of the Rheinisches Industriemuseum.\n\nCromford railway station is located on the Matlock-Derby Derwent Valley Line and can be seen on the cover of the 1995 Oasis single \"Some Might Say\".\n\nHistorically Cromford was part of the Wirksworth Wapentake or Hundred, this administrative area, also known as the Soke of Wirksworth (the \"small county of Wirksworth\") became, in due course, West Derbyshire Council and is now called Derbyshire Dales District Council. The village is run locally by the Cromford Parish Council.\n\nThe Cromford Mill (1771) buildings and accommodation for workers to staff the factories form part of the Derwent Valley Mills, which is recognised as a World Heritage Site for its importance. North Street, constructed by Arkwright is important as a very early purpose built industrial workers housing and was rescued from dereliction in the 1970s by the Ancient Monument Society who have since sold off the houses. One house in the street is now a Landmark Trust holiday cottage.\n\nMasson Mill (1783) is on the northern fringe of the village.\n\nWillersley Castle dominates hill on the east side of the river, with commanding views of Masson Mill, the village, and the road from Derby. Commissioned by Richard Arkwright, building work began in 1790, but was delayed by a fire in 1791. Richard Arkwright died in 1792, and the building was occupied by his son Richard in 1796. The Arkwright family moved out in 1922, and the building was acquired by some Methodist businessmen, and opened to guests as a Methodist Guild hotel in 1928. During World War II, the building was used as a maternity hospital by the Salvation Army while evacuated from their hospital in the East End of London.\n\nSt Mary's Church, Cromford built between 1792 and 1797 by Richard Arkwright.\n\nThe Cromford Canal – built to service the mills – is now in disuse, but has been designated a Site of Scientific Interest (SSSI). The canal tow path can be followed from Cromford Wharf to High Peak Junction, and on to Whatstandwell and Ambergate. The Cromford and High Peak Railway, completed in 1831, ran from High Peak Junction to the Peak Forest Canal at Whaley Bridge. Its track bed now forms the High Peak Trail, a walk and cycle route which is joined by the Tissington Trail at Parsley Hay.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2355626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2355626", "title": "Debre Berhan", "text": "Debre Berhan\n\nDebre Berhan (), formerly spelled Debra-Berhan or Bernam, is a city and woreda in central Ethiopia. Located in the Semien Shewa Zone of the Amhara Region, about 120 kilometers north east of Addis Ababa on the paved highway to Dessie, the town has a latitude and longitude of and an elevation of 2,840 meters. It was an early capital of Ethiopia and afterwards, with Ankober and Angolalla, was one of the capitals of the kingdom of Shewa. Today, it is the administrative center of the Semien Shewa Zone of the Amhara Region.\n\nDebre Berhan was founded by Emperor Zara Yaqob, in response to a miraculous light that was seen in the sky at the time. Believing this was a sign from God showing his approval for the death by stoning of a group of heretics 38 days before, the emperor ordered a church built on the site, and later constructed an extensive palace nearby, and a second church, dedicated to Saint Cyriacus. Zara Yaqob spent 12 of the last 14 years of his life in Debre Berhan.\n\nHistorian Richard Pankhurst offers the date of 1456 for the date of the founding of this church, providing a plausible argument that the light in the sky was Halley's Comet, which could have been in Shewa that year, although the traditional dates (10th day of the month of Maggabit, i.e. 6 or 7 March) do not coincide with the days that the comet was most visible (13 through 17 June).\n\nWhile his son Baeda Maryam did spend the first part of his reign in Debre Berhan, eventually Baeda Maryam returned to the established itinerant practice of living in a permanent encampment that was constantly on the move through the realm. The departure of the court led to a decline in the population and importance of this town. Pankhurst explains that the needs of the imperial court and army—who numbered in the thousands—for firewood and food was so burdensome that, \"it could not remain in any one locality for more than four months, nor return to the same place in less than 10 years due to the resultant shortage of food\", which prevented the growth of any capital city in this period.\n\nWhile little more than a large village, Debre Berhan is mentioned a few times in the 16th century, the first time as a mustering center by Emperor Lebna Dengel against the invading armies of Ahmad Gragn. After he had defeated Lebna Dengel at the Battle of Amba Sel, Ahmad mustered his troops twice in Debre Berhan before leading them on campaigns deeper into Ethiopian territory. At the second mustering in 1535, he proclaimed before his followers, \"Thanks be to God, Abyssinia is conquered. Only Tigray, Begemder and Gojjam are left... Shall we march against them, or shall we stay on in this region for a year until we have settled it down?\" then led them into the Ethiopian highlands.\n\nThe village regained importance in the reign of Asfa Wossen (1775-1808), Meridazmach of Shewa, who built a palace there, and divided his time amongst this town, Ankober and Angolalla. The succeeding Meridazmaches prized Debre Berhan as a hunting lodge for its surrounding plains, and used it as a riding place. His son Sahle Selassie rebuilt Debre Berhan after it had been ravaged by Abichu Oromo at the beginning of his reign, and built a church dedicated to the Selassie (\"Trinity\") in this capital.\n\nWhen then Negus Menelik submitted to Emperor Yohannes IV in the treaty of Wadara of 1878, it was also stipulated that the capital of Shewa would be moved from Liche to Debre Berhan.\n\nThe Debre Berhan market in the 1880s was considered important for mules and horses. The Selassie church was rebuilt by Emperor Menilek in 1906 and contains many mural paintings. David Buxton believes that it was inevitable that Debre Berhan would regain importance, \"Although a somewhat cold and inhospitable place,\" he writes about the town, \"it has an obvious advantage as commanding what must always have been an important focus of routes. Even in modern times it was inevitable that the Asmara road should be brought through this easy passage, avoiding the impassable gorges on the other.\"\n\nDebre Berhan received electricity in 1955 when a 90 kW hydro-electric power station was put into service; by 1965, the installed electrical capacity in the town was 125 kVA and annual production 103,000 kWh. On 26 April 1957, Emperor Haile Selassie opened the Community Teacher Training School in the town. By 1958 it was one of 27 places in Ethiopia ranked as First Class Township.\n\nOn 2 July 1994 it was broadcast that nine people were killed and eleven captured in an exchange of fire with security forces in Asagirt woreda. The people were alleged to have broken into the Debre Berhan prison before that, setting a number of prisoners free. According to the police, Andale Melaklu, the Debre Berhan representative of the All-Amhara People's Organization was one of the \"bandits\" killed in the fire exchange.\n\nBased on the 2007 national census conducted by the Central Statistical Agency of Ethiopia (CSA), this town has a total population of 65,231, of whom 31,668 are men and 33,563 women. The majority of the inhabitants practiced Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity, with 94.12% reporting that as their religion, while 3.32% of the population said they were Muslim and 2.15% were Protestants.\n\nThe 1994 national census reported a total population for Debre Berhan of 38,717 in 8,906 households, of whom 17,918 were men and 20,799 were women. The five largest ethnic groups reported in the town were the Amhara (90.12%), the Oromo (3.94%), the Tigrayan (1.81%), the Gurage (1.6%), and the Argobba (1.2%); all other ethnic groups made up 1.33% of the population. Amharic was spoken as a first language by 93.81%, Oromiffa was spoken by 3.04%, and 1.5% spoke Tigrinya; the remaining 1.65% spoke all other primary languages reported. The majority of the inhabitants practiced Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity, with 94.59% reporting that as their religion, while 4.05% were Muslim, and 1.02% Protestant.\n\nDebre Berhan city is one of the coolest city which is found at sub tropical zone of Ethiopia. The average annual temperature of the city during day and night hour is 20.7 °C and 8.2 °C respectively with precipitation 964mm.\n\nDebre Birhan is located along Ethiopian Highway 2, which connects Addis Abeba with the north of the country. The gravel road between Debre Berhan and Ankober, 42 kilometers in length, was overhauled in May 2009.\n\nThe Debre Berhan Wool Factory, the first wool factory in Ethiopia, started production was 1 January 1965 with 120 spindles and 6 looms, having the capacity to process one metric ton of wool daily. In its first six months, the factory produced 7,065 blankets in a single-shift operation with a labor force of about 200, of whom 45% were women. The Derg government announced 3 February 1975 that the Debre Berhan Wool Factory was among 14 textile enterprises to be fully nationalised.\n\nDebre Berhan is also a famed center of rug making.\n\nDespite its historical importance, none of the buildings Emperor Zara Yaqob built exist today, and no obvious 19th century construction is visible. The present church, although located on the site of the 15th century church, was built in 1906 at the orders of Emperor Menelik II.\n\nDebre Berhan is twinned with (sister city of)\n"}
{"id": "54525682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54525682", "title": "Elisabeth Munksgaard", "text": "Elisabeth Munksgaard\n\nElisabeth Munksgaard (1924 – 13 November 1997) was a Danish historian and the assistant Keeper in the Department of the Prehistory of Denmark at the National Museum of Denmark, a position she held from 1962 until retiring in 1990. She was \"Denmark's acknowledged expert\" on art from the late Iron Age and Viking Age.\n\nMunksgaard's work encompassed multiple aspects of prehistoric Denmark. In 1974 she published the work \"Oldtidsdragter\", for decades the authoritative work on ancient Scandinavian clothing. Over time her ideas developed to suggest a particular style of dress for the eleventh century King Canute, an idea so central to her scholarship that the \"finale\" to her career was the installation in the museum of a replica of the king. In 1984 Munksgaard furthermore identified the Tjele helmet fragment as the remnant of one of the only known Viking helmets, rather than the saddle mount it had been misidentified as for 130 years.\n\nBorn in 1924, Munksgaard earned her MA in Prehistoric Archaeology at the University of Copenhagen in 1953. Following a research fellowship in Cambridge and London from 1953 to 1954, she joined the National Museum of Denmark as a research assistant, becoming assistant keeper at the museum's Prehistory of Denmark department in 1962 until she retired in 1990. Taking a special interest in late Iron-age and Viking Age art, her papers on 5th-century gold rings and Late Antique silver were published in \"Acta Archaeologica\" in 1953 and 1955, presenting the results of her MA thesis. She went on to conduct studies into discoveries of late Iron-Age treasures and gold bracteates.\n\nFrom 1967, Munksgaard developed an interest in the museum's unique collection of ancient textiles and clothing, publishing \"Oldtidsdragter\" on ancient Scandinavian clothing in 1974. At the time of her death it was still considered to be the authoritative work on the subject. She argued that two triangular silks from the Viking Age chamber tomb in Mammen were fragments of cloak bands, later maintaining in the 1989 edition of \"Aarbøger for Nordish Oldkyndighed\" that some of the Mammen textiles reflected details shown in the drawing of Canute in \"Liber Vitae\". As a result, the Copenhagen Draper's Guild funded work on a costume designed to show \"King Canute in all his splendour.\" It was unveiled shortly before Munksgaard's retirement in 1990, sixteen years after she had initially proposed the theory, in a \"fine finale\" to her career.\n\nIn the decade before her retirement, Munksgaard also identified the Tjele helmet fragment as the remainder of a Viking Age helmet. Discovered in 1850 amidst the tools of a metalsmith, it was mistaken for a saddle mount. The fragment led an \"unnoticed existence\" in the museum for the next 130 years; recognising it for what it actually was in 1984, Munksgaard noted that \"it is quite true that the best finds are often made not in the field, but in the museums.\" The fragment is now identified as the remainder of one of only five known Viking helmets.\n\nElisabeth Munksgaard died on 13 November 1997, following a career during which she had made significant contributions to the National Museum's Department of Prehistory.\n\n"}
{"id": "16879176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16879176", "title": "Eugène Boban", "text": "Eugène Boban\n\nEugène Boban or Boban-Duvergé (1834–1908) was a French antiquarian. He was the official archaeologist of the court of Maximilian I of Mexico, and a member of the French Scientific Commission in Mexico. At one time, he held then sold a number of crystal skulls, one which is now in the Musée du Quai Branly and another in the British Museum.\n\nEugène Boban came to Mexico as a teenager, and became fluent in both Spanish and Nahuatl. He headed an expedition commissioned by Napoleon III to collect Mexican art and artifacts, later exhibited at the Trocadéro Museum in connection with the International Exposition (1867). In 1885 he had published a poster, \"Cuadro arqueológico y etnográfico de la republica mexicana\". In July 1886, he moved his business to New York City. Two sale catalogues of his collection, catalogued by Ed. Frossard, were published in New York in 1887.\nIn 1891, he organized and published the Aubin-Goupil Collection of manuscripts, bought in 1889 by Eugène Goupil and now in the Bibliothèque nationale.\n\nEthnological objects from his collection were sold in Paris, 1908.\n\nA crystal skull originally sold by Boban, now in the British Museum, has been demonstrated to be a modern fake.\n\nBoban's published works include:\n"}
{"id": "45027515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45027515", "title": "Federico Hernández de León", "text": "Federico Hernández de León\n\nFederico Hernández de León (March 4, 1883 – 1959) was a Guatemalan writer, historian and journalist. He graduated from the Instituto Nacional Central para Varones of Guatemala, with a high school diploma in 1900. Active politically, was arrested during the last few years of the government of president Manuel Estrada Cabrera, being held in the Central Penitentiary of Guatemala until the president was deposed on April 14, 1920. After his release, he went straight to take over the \"Diario de Centro América\" semi-official newspaper of Guatemala at the time. Later, he directed \"Nuestro Diario\" along with Carlos Bauer Aviles.\n\nDuring his more than six years of imprisonment in the Central Penitentiary, Hernández de León suffered many indignities that left him on the brink of death; but his friend, the labor leader Silverio Ortiz advocated for him to the minister plenipotentiary of the United States, showing Hernández de León's bloody clothes \n\nAfter the fall of Estrada Cabrera in 1920, he was released and returned to journalism; he was in the legislature and in the National Congress in the 1920s and 1930s. On December 12, 1930 there was a lot of turmoil in the Guatemalan government after general Lázaro Chacón suffered a stroke that forced him to resign from office. Hernández de León was a first hand witness as he was in Congress and he was also de Director of newspaper \"Nuestro Diario\".\nIn December 1930 the following events occurred in a rapid succession:\n\n\nWhen he was the Director of \"Nuestro Diario\" he hired a very young Clemente Marroquín Rojas as a columnist. Eventually Marroquín Rojas even took charge of the newspaper and wrote Hernández's column \"Efemérides\" while Hernández was out on commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "407098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407098", "title": "Field (heraldry)", "text": "Field (heraldry)\n\nIn heraldry, the background of the shield is called the \" field\". The field is usually composed of one or more tinctures (colours or metals) or furs. The field may be divided or may consist of a variegated pattern.\n\nIn rare modern cases the field (or a subdivision thereof) is not a tincture, but is shown as a scene from a landscape, or, in the case of the 329th Fighter Group of the United States Air Force, blazoned as \"the sky proper\". Landscape fields are regarded by many heralds as unheraldic and debased, as they defy the heraldic ideal of simple, boldly coloured images and cannot be consistently drawn from blazon.\n\nThe arms of the Inveraray and District Community Council in Scotland have as a field \"In waves of the sea\". The correct language of heraldry is very flexible and virtually any image may be blazoned in a correct manner, for example \"sky proper\" might be blazoned simply \"Azure\" or \"bleu celeste\", whilst \"waves of the sea\" might be blazoned correctly as \"Azure, 3 bars undee argent\" which would provide 3 wavy thick white lines on a blue field. \n\n"}
{"id": "41652547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41652547", "title": "Frank Maloy Anderson", "text": "Frank Maloy Anderson\n\nFrank Maloy Anderson (Feb. 3, 1871 - Apr. 26, 1961) was an author, historian and professor of history. He was born in Omaha, Nebraska and spent most of his adult life teaching and writing about American and Western European history. He was a prolific writer for \"The American Historical Review\" and is noted among American Civil War historians for his book \"The Diary of a Public Man\".\n\nHe taught history at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis from 1895-1896. The following year he attended Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts from 1896-1897. He married his first wife Mary G. Steele in 1898, who died in 1938. Their marriage produced one son, Troyer Steele Anderson, (1900 - 1948).\nMaloy taught history at Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. from 1914-1941. He became a member and was Executive Council of the American Association of University Professors from 1917-1920. He was a member and eventual Executive Council of the American Historical Association from 1926-1928. In 1944 he married his second wife, Mary Maud Case.\n\nIn 1948 Anderson published \"Mystery of a \"Public Man,\"\" a historical detective story regarding quotes made in a diary, known as The Diary of a Public Man, first published in a popular magazine in 1879, quoting people closely associated with Abraham Lincoln, Stephen A. Douglas and William H. Seward just before the Civil War broke out. The diary's publisher for reasons that are still disputed concealed the identity of its author and has been the center of much debate and controversy regarding the conclusions and surrounding history.\n\nFrank Maloy Anderson died in Saint Paul, Minnesota, on April 26, 1961, at the age of 90, and is buried at Lakewood Cemetery in Minnesota.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "349339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349339", "title": "Georgian era", "text": "Georgian era\n\nThe Georgian era is a period in British history from 1714 to , named after the Hanoverian kings George I, George II, George III and George IV. The sub-period that is the Regency era is defined by the regency of George IV as Prince of Wales during the illness of his father George III. The definition of the Georgian era is often extended to include the relatively short reign of William IV, which ended with his death in 1837.\n\nThe term \"Georgian\" is typically used in the contexts of social and political history and architecture. The term \"Augustan literature\" is often used for Augustan drama, Augustan poetry and Augustan prose in the period 1700–1740s. The term \"Augustan\" refers to the acknowledgement of the influence of Latin literature from the ancient Roman Republic.\n\nGeorgian society and its preoccupations were well portrayed in the novels of writers such as Henry Fielding, Mary Shelley and Jane Austen, characterised by the architecture of Robert Adam, John Nash and James Wyatt and the emergence of the Gothic Revival style, which hearkened back to a supposed golden age of building design.\n\nThe flowering of the arts was most vividly shown in the emergence of the Romantic poets, principally through Samuel Taylor Coleridge, William Wordsworth, Percy Bysshe Shelley, William Blake, John Keats, Lord Byron and Robert Burns. Their work ushered in a new era of poetry, characterised by vivid and colourful language, evocative of elevating ideas and themes.\n\nThe paintings of Thomas Gainsborough, Sir Joshua Reynolds and the young J. M. W. Turner and John Constable illustrated the changing world of the Georgian period – as did the work of designers like Capability Brown, the landscape designer.\n\nFine examples of distinctive Georgian architecture are Edinburgh's New Town, Georgian Dublin, Grainger Town in Newcastle upon Tyne, the Georgian Quarter of Liverpool and much of Bristol and Bath.\n\nThe music of John Field, Handel, Haydn, Clementi, Johann Christian Bach, William Boyce, Mozart, Beethoven and Mendelssohn was some of the most popular in England at that time.\n\nIt was a time of immense social change in Britain, with the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution which began the process of intensifying class divisions, and the emergence of rival political parties like the Whigs and Tories.\n\nIn rural areas the Agricultural Revolution saw huge changes to the movement of people and the decline of small communities, the growth of the cities and the beginnings of an integrated transportation system but, nevertheless, as rural towns and villages declined and work became scarce there was a huge increase in emigration to Canada, the North American colonies (which became the United States during the period) and other parts of the British Empire.\n\nThe evangelical movement inside and outside the Church of England gained strength in the late 18th and early 19th century. The movement challenged the traditional religious sensibility that emphasized a code of honor for the upper-class, and suitable behaviour for everyone else, together with faithful observances of rituals. John Wesley (1703–1791) and his followers preached revivalist religion, trying to convert individuals to a personal relationship with Christ through Bible reading, regular prayer, and especially the revival experience. Wesley himself preached 52,000 times, calling on men and women to \"redeem the time\" and save their souls. Wesley always operated inside the Church of England, but at his death, it set up outside institutions that became the Methodist Church. It stood alongside the traditional nonconformist churches, Presbyterians, Congregationalist, Baptists, Unitarians, and Quakers. The nonconformist churches, however, were less influenced by revivalism.\n\nThe Church of England remained dominant, but it had a growing evangelical, revivalist faction the \"Low Church\". Its leaders included William Wilberforce and Hannah More. It reached the upper class through the Clapham Sect. It did not seek political reform, but rather the opportunity to save souls through political action by freeing slaves, abolishing the duel, prohibiting cruelty to children and animals, stopping gambling, avoiding frivolity on the Sabbath; they read the Bible every day. All souls were equal in God's view, but not all bodies, so evangelicals did not challenge the hierarchical structure of English society. As R.J. Morris noted in his 1983 article \"Voluntary Societies and British Urban Elites, 1780-1850,\" \"[m]id-eighteenth-century Britain was a stable society in the sense that those with material and ideological power were able to defend this power in an effective and dynamic manner,\" but \"in the twenty years after 1780, this consensus structure was broken.\" Anglican Evangelicalism thus, as historian Lisa Wood has argued in her book \"Modes of Discipline: Women, Conservatism, and the Novel After the French Revolution\", functioned as a tool of ruling-class social control, buffering the discontent that in France had inaugurated a revolution; yet it contained within itself the seeds for challenge to gender and class hierarchies.\n\nThe Georgian period saw continual warfare, including the Seven Years' War, known in America as the French and Indian War (1756–63), the American Revolutionary War (1775–83), the French Revolutionary Wars (1792–1802), the Irish Rebellion of 1798, and the Napoleonic Wars (1803–15). The British won most of the wars except for the American Revolution, where the combined weight of the United States, France, Spain and the Netherlands overwhelmed Britain, which stood alone without allies.\n\nThe loss of some of the American Colonies in the American War of Independence was regarded as a national disaster and was seen by some foreign observers as heralding the end of Britain as a great power. In Europe, the wars with France dragged on for nearly a quarter of a century, 1793–1815. Victory over Napoleon at the Battle of Trafalgar (1805) and the Battle of Waterloo (1815) under Admiral Lord Nelson and the Duke of Wellington brought a sense of triumphalism and political reaction.\n\nThe expansion of empire brought fame to statesmen and explorers such as Clive of India and Captain Cook, and sowed the seeds of the worldwide British Empire of the Victorian and Edwardian eras which were to follow.\n\nThe era was prosperous as entrepreneurs extended the range of their business around the globe. By the 1720s Britain was one of the most prosperous countries in the world, and Daniel Defoe boasted:\n\nWhile the other major powers were primarily motivated toward territorial gains, and protection of their dynasties (such as the Habsburg and Bourbon dynasties, and the House of Hohenzollern), Britain had a different set of primary interests. Its main diplomatic goal (besides protecting the homeland from invasion) was building a worldwide trading network for its merchants, manufacturers, shippers and financiers. This required a hegemonic Royal Navy so powerful that no rival could sweep its ships from the world's trading routes, or invade the British Isles. The London government enhanced the private sector by incorporating numerous privately financed London-based companies for establishing trading posts and opening import-export businesses across the world. Each was given a monopoly of trade to the specified geographical region. The first enterprise was the Muscovy Company set up in 1555 to trade with Russia. Other prominent enterprises included the East India Company, and the Hudson's Bay Company in Canada. The Company of Royal Adventurers Trading to Africa had been set up in 1662 to trade in gold, ivory and slaves in Africa; it was reestablished as the Royal African Company in 1672 and focused on the slave trade. British involvement in the each of the four major wars, 1740 to 1783, paid off handsomely in terms of trade. Even the loss of the 13 colonies was made up by a very favorable trading relationship with the new United States of America. British gained dominance in the trade with India, and largely dominated the highly lucrative slave, sugar, and commercial trades originating in West Africa and the West Indies. China would be next on the agenda. Other powers set up similar monopolies on a much smaller scale; only the Netherlands emphasized trade as much as England.\n\nMercantilism was the basic policy imposed by Britain on its colonies. Mercantilism meant that the government and the merchants became partners with the goal of increasing political power and private wealth, to the exclusion of other empires. The government protected its merchants—and kept others out—by trade barriers, regulations, and subsidies to domestic industries in order to maximise exports from and minimise imports to the realm. The government had to fight smuggling, which became a favourite American technique in the 18th century to circumvent the restrictions on trading with the French, Spanish or Dutch. The goal of mercantilism was to run trade surpluses, so that gold and silver would pour into London. The government took its share through duties and taxes, with the remainder going to merchants in Britain. The government spent much of its revenue on a large and powerful Royal Navy, which not only protected the British colonies but threatened the colonies of the other empires, and sometimes seized them. The colonies were captive markets for British industry, and the goal was to enrich the mother country.\n\nMost of the companies earned good profits, and enormous personal fortunes were created in India, but there was one major fiasco that caused heavy losses. The South Sea Bubble was a business enterprise that exploded in scandal. The South Sea Company was a private business corporation supposedly set up much like the other trading companies, with a focus on South America. Its actual purpose was to renegotiate previous high-interest government loans amounting to ₤31 million through market manipulation and speculation. It issued stock four times in 1720 that reached about 8,000 investors. Prices kept soaring every day, from ₤130 a share to ₤1,000, with insiders making huge paper profits. The Bubble collapsed overnight, ruining many speculators. Investigations showed bribes had reached into high places—even to the king. The prime minister Robert Walpole managed to wind it down with minimal political and economic damage, although some losers fled to exile or committed suicide.\n\nWith the ending of the War with France, Great Britain entered a period of greater economic depression and political uncertainty, characterised by social discontent and unrest. The Radical political party published a leaflet called \"The Political Register\", also known as \"The Two Penny Trash\" to its rivals. The so-called March of the Blanketeers saw 400 spinners and weavers march from Manchester to London in March 1817 to hand the Government a petition. The Luddites destroyed and damaged machinery in the industrial north-west of England. The Peterloo Massacre in 1819 began as a protest rally which saw 60,000 people gathering to protest about their living standards, but was quelled by military action and saw eleven people killed and 400 wounded. The Cato Street Conspiracy of 1820 sought to blow up the Cabinet and then move on to storm the Tower of London and overthrow the government. This too was thwarted, with the conspirators executed or transported to Australia.\n\nHistorians have long explored the importance of the Scottish Enlightenment, as well as the American Enlightenment, while debating the very existence of the English Enlightenment.\n\nEnglish historian Peter Gay argues that the Scottish Enlightenment \"was a small and cohesive group of friends – David Hume, Adam Smith, Adam Ferguson, and others – who knew one another intimately and talked to one another incessantly. Education was a priority in Scotland, both at the local level and especially in four universities that had stronger reputations than any in England. The Enlightenment culture was based on close readings of new books, and intense discussions that took place daily at such intellectual gathering places in Edinburgh as The Select Society and, later, The Poker Club as well as within Scotland's ancient universities (St Andrews, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Aberdeen). Sharing the humanist and rationalist outlook of the European Enlightenment of the same time period, the thinkers of the Scottish Enlightenment asserted the importance of human reason combined with a rejection of any authority that could not be justified by reason. In Scotland, the Enlightenment was characterised by a thoroughgoing empiricism and practicality where the chief values were improvement, virtue, and practical benefit for the individual and society as a whole. Among the fields that rapidly advanced were philosophy, economics, history architecture, and medicine. Leaders included Francis Hutcheson, David Hume, Adam Smith, Dugald Stewart, Thomas Reid, William Robertson, Henry Home, Lord Kames, Adam Ferguson, John Playfair, Joseph Black and James Hutton. The Scottish Enlightenment influenced England and the American colonies, and to a lesser extent continental Europe.\n\nThe very existence of an English Enlightenment has been hotly debated by scholars. The majority of textbooks and standard surveys make no room for an English Enlightenment. Some European surveys include England, others ignore it but do include as enlightenment intellectuals such representative Englishmen as Newton, Locke, Jonathan Swift, although they do include coverage of such major intellectuals as Joseph Addison, Edward Gibbon, John Locke, Isaac Newton, Alexander Pope, Joshua Reynolds, and Jonathan Swift. Roy Porter argues that the reason for the neglect was the assumption that the movement was primarily French-inspired, that it was largely a-religious or anti-clerical, and it stood in outspoken defiance to the established order. Porter admits that after the 1720s, England could claim few thinkers to equal Diderot, Voltaire or Rousseau. Indeed, its leading intellectuals, such as Edward Gibbon, Edmund Burke, and Samuel Johnson were all quite conservative and supported the standing order. Porter says the reason was that Enlightenment had come early to England, and had succeeded so that the culture had accepted political liberalism, philosophical empiricism, and religious toleration of the sort that intellectuals on the continent had to fight for against powerful odds. The coffee-house culture provided an ideal venue for enlightened conversation. Furthermore, England rejected the collectivism of the continent, and emphasized the improvement of individuals as the main goal of enlightenment\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Note: In the twentieth century, the period 1910–1936 was informally called the Georgian Era during the reign of George V (following the Edwardian Era), and is sometimes still referred to as such; see Georgian Poetry.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11327342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11327342", "title": "Guram Sharadze", "text": "Guram Sharadze\n\nGuram Sharadze () (17 October 1940 – 20 May 2007) was a Georgian philologist, historian, and politician. In 1995, he founded a small nationalist movement \"Ena, Mamuli, Sartsmunoeba\" (\"Language, Homeland, Faith\"). He was assassinated in downtown Tbilisi.\n\nSharadze was involved in the anti-Soviet Georgian national movement in the late 1980s and was closely associated with Zviad Gamsakhurdia who became, in 1991, the first elected President of Georgia. After Gamsakhurdia's ouster in the 1992 coup d'etat, Sharadze was in opposition to Eduard Shevardnadze's government. In 1995, he founded the nationalist \"Ena, Mamuli, Sartsmunoeba\" (\"Language, Homeland, Religion\") movement, and was elected to the Parliament of Georgia. In 2002, he spearheaded, though unsuccessfully, a drive to try to ban the Jehovah's Witness religious denomination from the country, and was heavily criticized by the Georgian human rights activists and reformist politicians for his sympathy to the group of Orthodox radicals led by the ex-priest Basil Mkalavishvili which was involved in pogroms of the Jehovah's Witnesses. In 2003, he joined Shevardnadze's election bloc \"For A New Georgia\" in the controversial parliamentary elections which were widely denounced as rigged and triggered mass demonstrations concluded with the bloodless Rose Revolution. Since then, Sharadze withdrew from politics, but attempted to organize a civic movement against Western influences in Georgia, denouncing the civil society work of philanthropist George Soros as potentially more pernicious to Georgia than the Bolshevik revolution.\n\nIn 2004, he was sentenced to fifteen days imprisonment for hooliganism, after he tore down posters of the Polish artist Rafal Olbinski at an exhibition at the National Parliamentary Library of Georgia, labeling them as \"pornographic\". Next year, he was briefly arrested again for insulting the rector of Tbilisi State University who had launched a Western-modeled program of reforms.\n\nSharadze was a professor of philology at Tbilisi State University, a Corresponding Member of the Georgian Academy of Sciences, and Academician of the Abkhazian Regional Academy of Sciences. He authored several works on Georgian literature and history, with a particular emphasis on the 1918-1921 Democratic Republic of Georgia and Soviet-era Georgian political emigration in Europe.\n\nOn 20 May 2007, Guram Sharadze was assassinated on Melikishvili Avenue in central Tbilisi in front of the Aldagi Insurance Company office by Giorgi Barateli, an erstwhile friend of his son. Shortly thereafter, Barateli was arrested after a minor shootout with police. Sharadze’s daughter has alleged that the killing was political and her father was murdered in order to silence a vocal and a long-time critic of the expected repatriation of Muslim Meskhetians, the group deported from Georgia in 1944 by Joseph Stalin.\n\n"}
{"id": "40030932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40030932", "title": "Hasmathpet cairns", "text": "Hasmathpet cairns\n\nHasathpet cairns is a historic cairn circle or megalithic burial site located in Secunderabad. The site is among 12 other such sites that are state protected. There are also megalithic burial sites at Moulali, Kothaguda, Hyderabad Central University campus near Lingampalli. Later in 2008 a new site was also discovered at Kethepalli near Ramoji Film City. \n\nAs of today the site spread occupying an area of approximately 30 acres which was handed over to Department of Archaeology and Museums in 1953 is reportedly being encroached by various builders aided with official apathy. \n\nThe site was reportedly first discovered by Dr.Walker in 19th century and dates back to second century B.C. Another excavation was done in excavation was taken up in 1934-35 during the reign of Nizam, under the supervision of D. G. Mackenzie. Next round of excavations took place in 1971 with Birla Archaeological and Cultural Research Institute. The last round of excavations was done in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "204075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204075", "title": "Helmold", "text": "Helmold\n\nHelmold of Bosau (ca. 1120 – after 1177) was a Saxon historian of the 12th century and a priest at Bosau near Plön. He was a friend of the two bishops of Oldenburg in Holstein, Vicelinus (died 1154) and Gerold (died 1163), who did much to Christianize the Polabian Slavs.\n\nHelmold was born near Goslar. He grew up in Holstein, and received his instruction in Brunswick from Gerold, the future bishop of Oldenburg (1139–42). Later he came under the direction of Vicelinus, the Apostle of the Wends, first in the Augustinian monastery of Faldera, afterwards known as Neumünster (1147–53). He became a deacon about 1150, and finally became a parish priest in 1156 at Bosau on Großer Plöner See.\n\nAt Bishop Gerold's instigation Helmold wrote his \"Chronica Slavorum\", a history of the conquest and conversion of the Polabian Slavs from the time of Charlemagne (about 800) to 1171. The purpose of this chronicle was to demonstrate how Christianity and the German nationality gradually succeeded in gaining a footing among the Wends, especially in the eastern portion of Holstein. As an eyewitness he gives a clear description in fluent Latin of Vicelinus's missionary labors, of the founding of the bishopric in Oldenburg, of the transfer of this bishopric to Lübeck when German commerce at the latter place had become more important than in the former city, of the spread of German influence among the Wends, of the merciless subjugation and extermination of these, and of the summoning to their lands of foreign settlers, principally Westphalian and Dutch. The work is divided into two parts: the first covers a period closing with the year 1168, while the second continues to the year 1171. This second part, however, was written subsequently to 1172.\n\nHelmold was a critical historian, calling Henry the Lion \"out for money\", and criticizing the Wendish Crusades. He said that among the troops of Henry the Lion during the Wendish Crusade, there was \"only talk of money, never about Christianity\" and missionary conversion of the Slavs.\n\nHelmold drew his knowledge of the earliest period from the church history of Adam of Bremen and the Saxon records bearing on Henry IV, besides the life of Willehadus, the list of Ansgarius, and perhaps also a life of Vicelinus, but the summaries which he made of these records are unreliable. He is, however, the most important source of information for the history of his own period, his account of which rests on the verbal information of Vicelinus and of Gerold. His fund of information becomes noticeably meager after the latter's death in 1163. His trustworthiness was seriously questioned in the 19th century (see particularly Sehirren, \"Beiträge zur Kritik holsteinischer Geschichtsquellen\", Leipzig, 1876) owing to his antagonism towards the Archbishops of Bremen and his partiality for the Oldenburg-Lübeck bishopric, but it should not be supposed that be was guilty of an intentional falsification of facts. The chronicle was first published in 1556 at Frankfurt, and later in \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica: Scriptores\", XXI (1868), 11-99, and in \"Script. rer. Germ.\"\n\nHenry the Lion, Duke of Saxony, was Helmold's patron. The chronicle was continued down to 1209 by Abbot Arnold of Lübeck.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25818746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25818746", "title": "Henry C. Bradsby", "text": "Henry C. Bradsby\n\nColonel Henry C. Bradsby, often credited as H.C. Bradsby, was a late 19th-century historian and biographer. Many of his works are extensive local histories of various United States counties in Illinois, Missouri, Indiana and Pennsylvania, several more than a thousand pages long at their original publication.\n\n"}
{"id": "1486011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1486011", "title": "Insurgency in Northeast India", "text": "Insurgency in Northeast India\n\nInsurgency in Northeast India involves multiple armed factions operating in India's northeastern states, which are connected to the rest of India by the Siliguri Corridor, a strip of land as narrow as wide. Some factions favour a separate state while others seek regional autonomy. Some groups demand complete independence.\n\nNortheastern India consists of seven states (also known as the \"Seven Sister States\"): Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur, and Nagaland. Tensions exist between these states and the central government as well as amongst their native tribal people and migrants from other parts of India. Regional tensions eased off in late 2013, with the Indian and state governments making a concerted effort to raise the living standards of people in these regions. However, in late 2014 tensions again rose as the Indian government launched an offensive, which led to a retaliatory attack on civilians by tribal guerrillas. As of 1 January 2015, major militant activities are being conducted in Assam, Manipur, Nagaland and Tripura.\n\nThe Indian general election, 2014 had an 80% voter turnout in all northeastern states, the highest among all states of India. Indian authorities claim that this shows the faith of the northeastern people in Indian democracy. Despite this, a number of organizations listed as terrorist groups continue to promote an insurgency.\n\nThe National Liberation Council of Taniland (NLCT) was active along the Assam – Arunachal Pradesh border, and its members belong to the Tani groups of people which are demanding Taniland.The group enjoys no support from the local population of Arunachal Pradesh who are fiercely pro-India and the group is all but defunct now. The Tani groups are Mongoloid people (variously known as Mising in Assam and Adi, Nyishi, Galo, Bangni, Apa, Tagin, Hill Miri in Arunachal Pradesh) in India as well as the Luoba in China who live along the frontier of India.\n\nAssam has been a refuge for militants for a number of years, due to its porous borders with Bangladesh and Bhutan. The main causes of the friction include anti-foreigner agitation in the 1980s, and the simmering Assam-Bodo tensions. The insurgency status in Assam is classified as \"very active\". The government of Bangladesh has arrested and extradited senior leaders of the ULFA.\n\nThe United Liberation Front of Assam was formed in April 1979 to establish a sovereign state of Assam through armed struggle. In recent times the organisation has lost its middle rung leaders after most of them were arrested.\n\nThe National Democratic Front of Bodoland was formed in 1989 as the Bodo Security Force, and aims to set up an independent state Bodoland.\n\nThe Karbi Longri N.C. Hills Liberation Front is a militant group operating in the Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao districts of Assam that was formed on 16 May 2004. The outfit claims to fight for the cause of Karbi tribes, and its declared objective is Hemprek Kangthim, meaning self-rule/self-determination of the Karbi people. It is closely linked with the ULFA (United Liberation Front of Asom)\n\nThe United People's Democratic Solidarity was formed in March 1999 with the merger of two terrorist outfits in Assam's Karbi Anglong district, the Karbi National Volunteers (KNV) and the Karbi People’s Front (KPF).\n\nIn 2004, the UPDS (Anti-Talks) renamed itself as the Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front (KLNLF), and its armed wing as the Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Resistance Force (KNPR).\n\nIn 2014 the UPDS disbanded, following the mass surrender of all it cadres and leaders.\n\nThe Dima Halam Daoga (DHD) is a descendant of the Dimasa National Security Force (DNSF), which ceased operations in 1995. Commander-in-Chief Jewel Gorlosa, refused to surrender and launched the Dima Halam Daogah. After the peace agreement between the DHD and the central government in the year 2003, the group further broke out and DHD(J) also known as Black Widow was born which was led by Jewel Gorlosa. The Black Widow's declared objective is to create Dimaraji for the Dimasa people in Dima Hasao district only. However the objective of DHD (Nunisa faction) is to include parts of Cachar, Karbi Anglong, and Nagaon districts in Assam, and sections of Dimapur district in Nagaland.\n\nIn 2009 the group surrendered en masse to the CRPF and local police, 193 cadres surrendering on 2009-09-12 and another 171 on the 13th.\n\nThe objective of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO) is to carve out a separate Kamtapur State. The proposed state is to comprise six districts in West Bengal and four contiguous districts of Assam which are Cooch Behar, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, North and South Dinajpur and Malda of West Bengal and four contiguous districts of Assam – Kokrajhar, Bongaigaon, Dhubri and Goalpara. The KLO in the beginning was an over-ground organisation which was formed to address problems of the Koch Rajbongshi people such as large-scale unemployment, land alienation, perceived neglect of Kamtapuri language, identity, and grievances of economic deprivation.\n\nManipur's long tradition of independence can be traced to the foundation of the Kangleipak State in 1110. The Kingdom of Manipur was conquered by Great Britain following the brief Anglo-Manipuri War of 1891, becoming a British protectorate.\n\nManipur became part of the Indian Union on 15 October 1949. Manipur's incorporation into the Indian state soon led to the formation of a number of insurgent organisations, seeking the creation of an independent state within the borders of Manipur, and dismissing the merger with India as involuntary.\n\nDespite the fact that Manipur became a separate state of the Indian Union on 21 January 1972, the insurgency continued.\nOn 8 September 1980, Manipur was declared an area of disturbance, when the Indian government imposed the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 on the region; the act currently remains in force.\n\nThe parallel rise of Naga nationalism in neighbouring Nagaland led to the emergence of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) activities in Manipur. Clashes between the Isak-Muivah and Khaplang factions of the NSCN further aggravated tensions, as Kuki tribals began creating their own guerrilla groups in order to protect their interests from alleged Naga violations. Skirmishes between the two ethnic groups took place during the 1990s. Other ethnic groups such as the Paite, Vaiphei, Pangals and Hmars followed suit establishing militant groups.\n\nThe first separatist faction known as the United National Liberation Front (UNLF) was founded on 24 November 1964.\n\nBetween 1977 and 1980, the People's Liberation Army of Manipur (PLA), the People's Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak (PREPAK) and the Kangleipak Communist Party (KCP), were formed, immediately joining the war.\n\nNagaland was created in 1963 as the 16th state of the Indian Union, before which it was a district of Assam. Insurgent groups classified as active mainly demand full independence. The Naga National Council led by Phizo was the first group to dissent in 1947 and in 1956 they went underground.\n\nThe National Socialist Council of Nagaland was formed in 1980 to establish a Greater Nagaland, encompassing parts of Manipur, Nagaland, and the north Cachar hills (Assam). The NSCN split in 1988 to form two groups, NSCN(IM) and NSCN(K). As of 2015, both groups have observed a ceasefire truce with the Indian government.\n\nThe National Socialist Council of Nagaland—Khaplang is the second faction with the same aim of a Greater Nagaland and was formed in 1988.\n\nThe insurgent groups in Tripura emerged at the end of the 1970s, as ethnic tensions between the Bengali immigrants and the tribal native population who were outnumbered by the former, hailing from other parts of India and nearby Bangladesh, which resulted in their being reduced to minority status even threatening them economically, socially, culturally; this resulted in a clarion call for safeguarding tribal rights and cultures. Such being the extent of desperation, this naturally resulted in hatred and suspicion and their status is classified as active.\n\nThe National Liberation Front of Tripura was formed in March 1989.\n\nThe All Tripura Tiger Force was formed by local aboriginal tribes in 1990, who were gradually outnumbered both directly and indirectly, even at the cost of being threatened for their survival economically and culturally, not to speak of their being reduced to minority population-wise; their sole aim is the expulsion of all Bengali speaking immigrants from the rest of India and nearby Bangladesh.\n\nThe state of Meghalaya was separated from the state of Assam in 1971, in order to satisfy the Khasi, Synteng and Garo for a separate state. The decision was initially praised as an example of successful national integration into the wider Indian state.\n\nThis, however, failed to prevent the rise of national consciousness among the local tribal populations, later leading to a direct confrontation between Indian nationalism and the newly created Garo and Khasi nationalisms. A parallel rise of nationalism in the other members of the Seven Sister States further complicated the situation, resulting in occasional clashes between rebel groups.\n\nThe state wealth distribution system further fueled the rising separatist movements, as funding is practised through per-capita transfers, which largely benefits the leading ethnic group.\n\nThe first militant outfit to emerge in the region was the Hynniewtrep Achik Liberation Council (HALC). It was formed in 1992, aiming to protect the interests of Meghalaya's indigenous population from the rise of non-tribal (\"Dkhar\") immigration.\n\nA conflict of interest soon led to a split of the HALC into the Garo-dominated Achik Matgrik Liberation Army (AMLA), and the joint Systeng-Khasi alliance of Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC).\n\nThe AMLA passed into obscurity, while the Achik National Volunteers Council (ANVC) took its place. The Garo-Khasi drift persisted as the HNLC had set up the goal of turning Meghalaya into an exclusively Khasi region; the ANVC, on the other hand, sought the creation of an independent state in the Garo Hills.\n\nThe most active outfit in the state is the Garo National Liberation Army (GNLA), which was formed in 2009.\n\nA number of non-Meghalayan separatist groups have also operated in the region, including the United Liberation Front of Assam and the National Democratic Front of Bodoland among others.\n\nMizoram's tensions were largely due to the simmering Assamese domination and the neglect of the Mizo people. In 1986, the Mizo accord ended the main secessionist movement led by the Mizo National Front, bringing peace to the region. Insurgency status is classified as partially active, due to secessionist/autonomy demands by the Hmars, Chakmas and Brus.\n\nThe Hmar People's Convention-Democracy is an armed insurgency group formed in 1995 to create an independent Hmar State in North East India. It is the offspring of the Hmar People's Convention (HPC), which entered into an agreement with the Government of Mizoram in 1994 resulting in the formation of the Sinlung Hills Development Council (SHDC) in North Mizoram. Their recruited cadres are from the States where the Hmar people are spread – Assam, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura and Meghalaya. The HPC(D) is demanding a separate administrative unit under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution of India.\n\nFollowing the 1990 Operations \"Rhino\" and \"Bajrang\", Assamese separatist groups relocated their camps to Bhutan. In 1996 the Bhutan government became aware of a large number of camps on its southern border with India. The camps were set up by four Assamese separatist movements: the ULFA, NDFB, Bodo Liberation Tigers Force (BLTF) and Kamtapur Liberation Organization (KLO). The camps also harboured separatists belonging to the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) and the All Tripura Tiger Force (ATTF).\n\nIndia then exerted diplomatic pressure on Bhutan, offering support in removing the rebel organisations from its soil. The government of Bhutan initially pursued a peaceful solution, opening dialogue with the militant groups on 1998. Five rounds of talks were held with ULFA, three rounds with DNFB, with KLO ignoring all invitations sent by the government. In June 2001 ULFA agreed to close down four of its camps; however, the Bhutanese government soon realized that the camps had simply been relocated.\n\nBy 2003 the talks had failed to produce any significant result. On 14 July 2003, military intervention was approved by the National Assembly. On 13 December 2003, the Bhutanese government issued a two-day ultimatum to the rebels. On 15 December 2003, after the ultimatum had expired, Operation All Clear – the first operation ever conducted by the Royal Bhutan Army – was launched.\n\nBy 3 January 2004, the Royal Bhutan Army had killed about 120 militants. They managed to capture several senior ULFA commanders. Large numbers of rebels fled to Bangladesh and India. Militants also were dislodged from all 30 camps and 35 observation posts, with the camps burned and razed to the ground.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2011, Royal Bhutan Police and Royal Bhutan Army personnel undertook numerous actions against alleged north Indian militants. Several firefights occurred while Bhutan military personnel were required to dispose of several explosive devices and destroyed a number of guerrilla camps.\n\nDespite threats from insurgent militants groups in Northeast India, people turned out in large numbers for the Indian general election, 2014. Voter turnout in northeast India was best among all regions or states of India.\n\nIn Manipur the following militant groups have come together as the CorCOM which is a short name for Coordination Committee.\n\n\nCorCom is on the extremist organisations list of the Government of India, and is responsible for many bombings usually associated with Indian holidays and elections.\n\nSome of the above-mentioned militant groups have formed an alliance to fight against the governments of India, Bhutan and Myanmar. They use the term \"Western Southeast Asia\" (WESEA) to describe the region in which they operate: Northeast India, Bhutan, North Bengal and Myanmar. These groups include:\n\n\nNine militant groups of the northeast, including the NSCN (Khaplang) and the ULFA faction led by Paresh Baruah, have come together to form a new unified front known as UNLFW during a meeting held in Myanmar in early 2015. Besides the NSCN (K) and ULFA-Independent, other groups that participated in the meeting held at Taga in Sagaing division of Myanmar earlier this month were the Kangleipak Communist Party (KCP), Kanglei Yawol Kunna Lup (KYKL), the People’s Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak (PREPAK), the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), the United National Liberation Front (UNLF) and the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (Songbijit faction) (NDFB).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52296392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52296392", "title": "International Numismatic Congress", "text": "International Numismatic Congress\n\nThe International Numismatic Congress (INC) is the largest international conference for numismatists. It is organised every six years by the International Numismatic Council. Since the 7th INC in Copenhagen, the conference has also marked the launch of the \"Survey of Numismatic Literature\", in which specialist numismatists review research and publications since the previous Congress. A special medal is created for each Congress. The Congress has, from the 6th INC in Rome forward, met at six-year intervals with the only slight disturbance being that the 10th INC in London convened seven years after the previous Congress and saw a slightly shortened span of five years following the London INC.\n\n\nThe Surveys are compiled by subject specialists, which are then edited by a senior numismatist (or team of numismatists), and published in the \"International Association of Professional Numismatists Special Publication\" series, usually in the location of the relevant congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "99227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99227", "title": "Iranian calendars", "text": "Iranian calendars\n\nThe Iranian calendars ( \"Gâh-Shomâriye Īrâni\") are a succession of calendars invented or used for over two millennia in Iran and formerly Persia. One of the longest chronological records in human history, the Iranian calendar has been modified time and time again during its history to suit administrative, climatic, and religious purposes.\n\nThe modern Iranian calendar is currently the official calendar in Iran. It begins at the midnight nearest to the instant of the vernal equinox as determined by astronomical calculations for the Iran Standard Time meridian (52.5°E or GMT+3.5h). It is, therefore, an observation-based calendar, unlike the Gregorian, which is rule-based.\n\nThe Iranian year usually begins within a day of 21 March of the Gregorian calendar. To find the corresponding year of the Gregorian calendar, add 621 or 622 (depending on the time of the year) to a solar hijri year. A short table of year correspondences between the Persian and Gregorian calendars is provided below.\n\nAlthough the earliest evidence of Iranian calendrical traditions is from the second millennium BCE, predating the appearance of the Iranian prophet Zoroaster, the first fully preserved calendar is that of the Achaemenids. Throughout recorded history, Persians have been keen on the idea and importance of having a calendar. They were among the first cultures to use a solar calendar and have long favoured a solar over lunar and lunisolar approaches. The sun has always been a symbol in Iranian culture and is closely related to the folklore regarding Cyrus the Great.\n\nOld Persian inscriptions and tablets indicate that early Iranians used a 360-day calendar based on the solar observation directly and modified for their beliefs. Days were not named. The months had two or three divisions depending on the phase of the moon. Twelve months of 30 days were named for festivals or activities of the pastoral year. A 13th month was added every six years to keep the calendar synchronized with the seasons.\n\nThe following table lists the Old Persian months.\nThere were four farming festivals, symmetrical about \"maidyoshahem\":\n\nTwo more festivals were later added, creating the six \"gahanbar\":\n\nThe first calendars based on Zoroastrian cosmology appeared in the later Achaemenid period (650 to 330 BCE). They evolved over the centuries, but month names changed little until now.\n\nThe unified Achaemenid Empire required a distinctive Iranian calendar, and one was devised in Egyptian tradition, with 12 months of 30 days, each dedicated to a yazata (Eyzad), and four divisions resembling the Semitic week. Four days per month were dedicated to Ahura Mazda and seven were named after the six Amesha Spentas. Thirteen days were named after Fire, Water, Sun, Moon, Tiri and Geush Urvan (the soul of all animals), Mithra, Sraosha (Soroush, yazata of prayer), Rashnu (the Judge), Fravashi, Bahram (yazata of victory), Raman (Ramesh meaning peace), and Vata, the divinity of the wind. Three were dedicated to the female divinities, Daena (yazata of religion and personified conscious), Ashi (yazata of fortune) and Arshtat (justice). The remaining four were dedicated to Asman (lord of sky or Heaven), Zam (earth), Manthra Spenta (the Bounteous Sacred Word) and Anaghra Raocha (the 'Endless Light' of paradise).\n\nThe month names and their modern versions are given in the following table.\n\nThe calendar had a significant impact on religious observance. It fixed the pantheon of major divinities, and also ensured that their names were uttered often, since at every Zoroastrian act of worship the yazatas of both day and month were invoked. It also clarified the pattern of festivities; for example, Mitrakanna or Mehregan was celebrated on Mithra day of Mithra month, and the Tiri festival (Tiragan) was celebrated on Tiri day of the Tiri month.\n\nIn 538 BC Cyrus the Great (uncertain if he was a Zoroastrian) conquered Babylon and the Babylonian luni-solar calendar came into use for civil purposes. Cambyses conquered Egypt in 525 BC. He was accompanied by Darius, a Zoroastrian who became ruler of the Persian empire in 517 BC. The Zoroastrians adopted the wandering Egyptian solar calendar of twelve months of thirty days plus five epagomenal days. As their year began in the spring (with the festival of \"norouz\") the epagemonai were placed just before \"norouz\".\n\nIn Egypt the star Sirius had significance since every 1460 years (the Sothic cycle) its heliacal rising (just before sunrise) marked the Egyptian new year and the inundation of the Nile. In Persia also the star had significance, since its heliacal rising there also coincided with the coming of the rain. The fourth Persian month was \"Tishtrya\" (Sirius, rain star). The vernal equinox at Greenwich fell on the first day of the first month from 487 to 483 BC (inclusive). Adopting S H Taqizadeh's date of 28 March 487 BC for the reform the calendar for that year is as follows:\n\nThe fourth month includes 20 July, the date of the heliacal rising of Sirius. In the first year the people carried on using the old calendar, anticipating festival dates by five days. As each day is named after a god, it is important to observe the celebrations on the right day. Thus the \"fravasis\" festival, which in the old calendar was kept between sunset on 30 Spandarmad and sunrise on 1 Frawardin, was now observed throughout the \"epagemonai\". In the second year of the reform, the old 30 Spandarmad was the new 25 Spandarmad, so from then on the festival covered eleven days, up to the new 1 Frawardin. Five days was considered enough for other festivals, however.\n\nIn all the lands where the Persian calendar was used the \"epagemonai\" were placed at the end of the year. To offset the difference between the agricultural year and the calendar year (the tax-gathering season began after the harvest) the start of the \"araji\" (land-tax) year was delayed by one month every 120 years. A Roman historian, Quintus Curtius Rufus, describing a ceremony in 333 BC, writes:\n\nThe magi were followed by three hundred and sixty-five young men clad in purple robes, equal in number to the days of a whole year; for the Persians also divided the year into that number of days.\n\nAfter the conquests by Alexander of Macedon and his death, the Persian territories fell to one of his generals, Seleucus (312 BCE), starting the Seleucid dynasty of Iran. Based on the Greek tradition, Seleucids introduced the practice of dating by era rather than by the reign of individual kings. Their era became known as that of Alexander, or later the Seleucid era. Since the new rulers were not Zoroastrians, Zoroastrian priests lost their function at the royal courts, and so resented the Seleucids. Although they began dating by eras, they established their own era of Zoroaster.\n\nThat was the first serious attempt to determine the dates associated with the prophet Zoroaster's life. Priests had no Zoroastrian historical sources, and so turned to Babylonian archives famous in the ancient world. From these they learned that a great event in Persian history took place 228 years before the era of Alexander. In fact, this was the conquest of Babylon by Cyrus the Great in 539 BCE. But the priests misinterpreted this date to be the time the \"true faith\" was revealed to their prophet, and since Avestan literature indicates that revelation happened when Zoroaster was 30 years old, 568 BCE was taken as his year of birth. The date entered written records as the beginning of the era of Zoroaster, and indeed, the Persian Empire. This incorrect date is still mentioned in many current encyclopedias as Zoroaster's birth date.\n\nThe Parthians (Arsacid dynasty) adopted the same calendar system with minor modifications, and dated their era from 248 BCE, the date they succeeded the Seleucids. Their names for the months and days are Parthian equivalents of the Avestan ones used previously, differing slightly from the Middle Persian names used by the Sassanians. For example, in Achaemenid times the modern Persian month 'Day' was called Dadvah (Creator), in Parthian it was Datush and the Sassanians named it Dadv/Dai (Dadar in Pahlavi).\n\nWhen in April of AD 224 the Parthian dynasty fell and was replaced by the Sasanid, the new king, Ardashir I, abolished the official Babylonian calendar and replaced it with the Zoroastrian. This involved a correction to the places of the \"gahanbar\", which had slipped back in the seasons since they were fixed. These were placed eight months later, as were the \"epagemonai\", the 'Gatha' or 'Gah' days after the ancient Zoroastrian hymns of the same name. Other countries, such as the Armenians and Choresmians, did not accept the change. The new dates were:\n\nIn AD 224 the vernal equinox at Greenwich fell at noon on 21 March, which was 22 Shahrewar. Immediately after the reform 21 March corresponded to 27 Shahrewar. Here is the calendar for AD 225–6:\n\nThe change caused confusion and was immensely unpopular. The new \"epagemonai\" were referred to as \"robber days\". The people now observed the \"Great\" \"nowruz\" on 6 Frawardin, which was Zoroaster's birthday and corresponded to 1 Frawardin in the old calendar. The new 1 Frawardin was observed as the \"lesser\" \"nowruz\". Hormizd I (AD 272–273) made the intervening days into festivals as well. In AD 273 the vernal equinox at Greenwich fell at 5 AM on 21 March.\n\nYazdegerd I reigned from AD 399–420. In AD 400 the equinox fell about 19 March, which was 9 Aban. According to al-Biruni, in that reign there was a double adjustment of the start of the \"araji\" year. The tenth-century astronomer Abu'l-asan Kusyar noted that during the reign of Osrow II (AD 589–628) the sun entered Aries in Adur. This happened throughout his reign. An \"araji\" era was introduced dating from AD 621, and the Yazdegerdi era dates from 16 June AD 632, so the Yazdegerdi era is eleven years behind the \"araji\".\n\nThe Muslim rulers who took over from the middle of the seventh century used the Islamic calendar for administration, which caused hardship because the year was shorter – i.e. a tax which was formerly collected after the harvest would now have to be paid before the harvest. Traditionally the caliph Omar reintroduced the Persian calendar for tax collection purposes.\n\nIn AD 895 there was another double readjustment of the start of the \"araji\" year. It moved from 1 Frawardin (12 April) to 1 Khordad (11 June). By AD 1006 the vernal equinox, 15 March, was again coinciding with \"nowruz\", 1 Frawardin. In that year, therefore, the \"epagemonai\" were delayed four months, moving from the end of Aban to their old position at the end of Spandarmad. This is the calendar for AD 1006/7:\n\nThe \"gahanbar\" didn't move quite to their old places, because the fifth moved to 20 Day, which was the old 15 Day, thus increasing the interval between the fourth and fifth to eighty days and reducing the interval between the fifth and sixth to 75 days. The new dates were:\n\nFrom 15 March AD 1079, when the calendar had slipped a further eighteen days, the \"araji\" calendar was reformed by repeating the first eighteen days of Frawardin. Thus 14 March was 18 Frawardin \"qadimi\" (old) or \"farsi\" and 15 March was 1 Frawardin \"jalali\" or \"maleki\". This new calendar was astronomically calculated so did not have \"epagemonai\" – the months began when the sun entered a new sign of the zodiac.\n\nAbout 120 years after the reform of AD 1006, when the vernal equinox was starting to fall in Ardawahisht, Zoroastrians made it again coincide with \"nowruz\" by adding a second Spandarmad. This \"Shensai\" calendar was a month behind the \"qadimi\" still used in Persia, being used only by the Zoroastrians in India, the Parsees. On 6 June 1745 (Old Style) some Parsees re-adopted the \"qadimi\" calendar, and in 1906 some adopted the \"Fasli\" calendar in which 1 Frawardin was equated with 21 March, so that there was a sixth epagomenal day every four years. In 1911 the \"jalali\" calendar became the official national calendar of Persia. In 1925 this calendar was simplified and the names of the months were modernised. 1 Farvardin is the day whose midnight start is nearest to the instant of vernal equinox. The first six months have 31 days, the next five thirty, and the twelfth has 29 days and 30 in leap years. Some Zoroastrians in Persia now use the \"Fasli\" calendar, having begun changing to it in 1930.\n\nCorrespondence of Solar Hijri and Gregorian calendars (Solar Hijri leap years are marked *)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23985267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23985267", "title": "Itineraries of the Roman emperors, 337–361", "text": "Itineraries of the Roman emperors, 337–361\n\nThis article chronicles the attested movements of the fourth-century Roman emperors Constantine II (referred to here as Constantinus), Constantius II (referred to here as Constantius), Constans, Gallus, and Julian the Apostate from 337 to 361 AD. It does not cover the imperial usurpers of the period, including Magnentius, Vetranio, Claudius Silvanus, and Poemenius. The chronology is principally derived from Timothy Barnes' \"Athanasius and Constantius\". Substantial additions and further sources are based on recent research that seeks to go beyond Barnes' own chronology and slightly modifying his at a few places.\n\nThis article begins its coverage at the death of Constantine on 22 May 337. After an interregnum of three months, during or after which the army and its agents lynched other potential successors, the three sons of Constantine declared themselves Augusti on 9 September 337. Discarding their father's succession arrangements, the brothers divided the empire into three parts. Constantinus ruled the provinces of Gaul, Britain, Spain, and Germany from Trier. Constantius ruled the provinces of Asia Minor (the dioceses of Pontus and Asia), Thrace, the Levant and Egypt (the Diocese of the East) from Antioch. Constans ruled Italy, Africa, and the dioceses of Pannonia, Dacia, and Macedonia from Naissus.\n\nIn 340, Constantinus attempted to seize his brother Constans' territory, and was killed in battle during the ensuing civil war. Constans acquired his territory, and ruled from Trier, Milan, and Sirmium. In January 350, Constans was overthrown and killed in a palace revolution instigated by Magnentius. Magnentius was defeated and killed in the summer of 353 at the Battle of Mons Seleucus, making Constantius the sole emperor.\n\nFrom 351 to 359, Constantius ruled from Sirmium and Milan. Constantius appointed Gallus Caesar (subordinate emperor) on 15 March 351, and delegated the rule of the eastern provinces to him. Gallus ruled from Antioch. He subsequently proved violent and cruel, and was recalled and executed in autumn 354. Constantius appointed Julian, the last surviving male relative of Constantine other than himself, Caesar on 6 November 355. Julian ruled the western provinces from Vienne, Sens, and Paris. To address Persian influence and aggression on the eastern frontier, Constantius ruled from Antioch from 360 until his death.\n\nJulian's troops proclaimed him Augustus in February 360. Constantius did not recognize Julian's claim to the title, but was detained from campaigning against him by Persian raids. Constantius died on 3 November 361 after declaring Julian his successor. Julian was sole emperor from Constantius' death until his own death in 363. This article ends its coverage at Julian's death on June 26, 363. For a further timeline until 426, consult Matthews, John. Western Aristocracies and Imperial Court A.D. 364-425. Oxford: Clarendon Press; New York: Oxford University Press, 1975.\nA † indicates that a date or an event is uncertain. A superscript S indicates that the manuscript is corrupt, and has been emended to follow Otto Seeck's corrections in his edition of the \"Codex Theodosianus\". Manuscript details are given in brackets (as \"mss. date\" or \"mss. year\", etc.) for all emended texts. Unsourced events are purely conjectural. Note that some are based on triangulation of different sources and can be, as such, somewhat inexact. These cases have been noted.\n"}
{"id": "17203867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17203867", "title": "José Ignacio García Hamilton", "text": "José Ignacio García Hamilton\n\nGarcía Hamilton was born in San Miguel de Tucumán to Lucía Elena Aráoz and Enrique García Hamilton. He studied at the National University of Tucumán, graduating in 1969, and received his PhD in Legal and Social Sciences from the University of Buenos Aires, where he later was a Professor of history and law. He worked as a columnist and Secretary General of \"La Gaceta\" newspaper in Tucumán - which was owned by his family and edited by his father. He founded \"El Pueblo\", a local newspaper, in 1972, and was named director of the Association of Provincial Newspapers; his brother, Eduardo, was also a prominent Tucumán journalist, serving as director of \"La Gaceta\", and founder of \"Siglo XXI\". In the mid-1970s, in the final months of the Presidency of Isabel Martínez de Perón, he was imprisoned by the government. He was a columnist for newspapers and magazines in Argentina, Uruguay and the United States.\n\nIn 1975, after his release from prison and exile to Buenos Aires, García Hamilton initiated his career as a lawyer and founded García Hamilton & Asociados law firm. The firm has grown since then to become an advisory firm providing legal, tax and finance advisory services (GHB Advisory), and is now run by his sons.\n\nGarcía Hamilton was the author of numerous books, including \"Hispano-American authoritarianism and unproductiveness\" (1990), and biographies of Juan Bautista Alberdi, \"Life of an absentee\" (1993); Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, \"Rowdy Cuyano\" (1997), and José de San Martín, \"Don José\" (2000). \"Don José\" sold over 60,000 copies in Argentina. He won the Merit Diploma from the Konex Foundation for \"Life of an Absentee\". He has presented several television programmes on Argentine history.\n\nIn 2006, he was deported from Cuba without explanation. García Hamilton suggested that his ongoing interest in the subject of authoritarianism in Latin American politics might have been responsible.\n\nIn 1991 García Hamilton ran as a candidate for vice-governor of Tucumán Province. In 2007 he was elected a national deputy for the province in support of the presidential bid of Roberto Lavagna. He later spoke out against Lavagna's return to the Kirchnerist fold.\n\nHe was vice-president of the interfaith NGO Casa Argentina en Jerusalem. In 2002, García Hamilton was awarded with the Sousa Mendes International Award, and in February 2010, the International Raoul Wallenberg Foundation issued a commemorative set of post stamps in his memory, to remember his dedication to interfaith dialogue and tolerance.\n\nHe was married to Graciela Gass, with whom he had six children. He died on 18 June 2009 after a ten-year-long battle with cancer.\n\nAutoritarismo Hispanoamericano (Editorial Sudamericana)\nVida de un Ausente. La vida de Juan Bautista Alberdi (Editorial Sudamericana)\nCuyano Alborotador. La vida de Domingo Sarmiento (Editorial Sudamericana)\nDon José. La vida de José de San Martín (Editorial Sudamericana)\nSimon. La vida de Simón Bolívar (Editorial Sudamericana)\nPor qué Crecen los Países. (Editorial Sudamericana)\nJuan Domingo. La vida de Peron (Editorial Sudamericana)\n"}
{"id": "13012705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13012705", "title": "Jōgan", "text": "Jōgan\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199292", "title": "Kirkuk", "text": "Kirkuk\n\nKirkuk ( '; '; ; ) is a city in Iraq, serving as the capital of the Kirkuk Governorate, located north of Baghdad.\n\nKirkuk lies in a wide zone with an enormously diverse population and has been multilingual for centuries. There were dramatic demographic changes during Kirkuk's urbanization in the twentieth century, which saw the development of distinct ethnic groups. Kurds, Iraqi Turkmen, Arabs, Chaldeans, and Assyrians lay conflicting claims to this zone, and all have their historical accounts and memories to buttress their claims. \n\nThe city sits on the ruins of the original Kirkuk Citadel, site of the ancient mid-3rd millennium BC, Assyrian city of Arrapha, and which sits near the Khasa River. The city is mentioned during the Sumero-Akkadian period of Assyria in cuneiform script from about 2400 BC. The region became a part of the Akkadian empire (2335–2154 BC) which united all of the Akkadian and Sumerian speaking Mesopotamians under one rule. After its collapse, the language isolate-speaking Gutians, a \"pre-Iranic\" race from Ancient Iran, overran the region for a few decades, making Arrapha their capital, before being ejected from Mesopotamia by the Sumerians during the Neo-Sumerian Empire (2112–2004 BC). The city later came to be dominated by the Hurrians from eastern Anatolia before being incorporated into the Old Assyrian Empire (2025–1750 BC), after which Arrapha and the whole of northern Mesopotamia, together with parts of north east Syria and south east Turkey, became a part of Assyria proper. During the late 15th century BC Assyria and Arrapha was under the domination of the short-lived Mittani-Hurrian empire, but after the Assyrians overthrew and destroyed the Hurri-Mitanni in the early 14th century BC the city was once more under Assyrian rule. Arrapha remained an important Assyrian city until the fall of the Assyrian empire between 615–599 BC. After this it remained a part of the geo-political province of Assyria (Achaemenid Assyria, Athura, Seleucid Syria, Assyria (Roman province) and Assuristan) under various foreign empires, and between the 2nd century BC and 3rd century AD became the capital of the Neo-Assyrian state of Beth Garmai before this was conquered into the Sassanid empire and became a part of Assuristan. The Arab Islamic conquest of the 7th century AD saw the dissolution of Assyria as a geo-political entity.\n\nKurds and Turkmens have claimed the city as a cultural capital. It was named the \"capital of Iraqi culture\" by the Iraqi ministry of culture in 2010. The city currently consists mainly of people who self-identify as Kurds, Arabs, Iraqi Turkmens, Chaldeans, and Assyrians , with changes in population after the US-led invasion in 2003, and later the war against the Islamic State from 2014 to 2017.\n\nThe ancient name of Kirkuk was the Assyrian \"Arrap'ha\". During the Parthian era, a \"Korkura/Corcura\" () is mentioned by Ptolemy, which is believed to refer either to Kirkuk or to the site of Baba Gurgur from the city. Since the Seleucid Empire it was known as \"Karkha D-Bet Slokh\", which means 'Citadel of the House of Seleucid' in Mesopotamian Aramaic, the lingua franca of the Fertile Crescent in that era.\n\nThe region around Kirkuk was known historically in the Eastern Aramaic and Syriac Assyrian sources as \"Beth Garmai\" (). The name \"Beth Garmai\" or \"Beth Garme\" may be of Syriac origin which meaning \"the house of bones\", which is thought to be a reference to bones of slaughtered Achaemenids after a decisive battle between Alexander the Great and Darius III on the plains between the Upper Zab and Diyala river. It was one of a number of independent Neo-Assyrian states which flourished during the Parthian empire (150 BC-226 AD). Kirkuk itself was the Assyrian \"Karkha D'Beth Slokh\", the metropolitan centre of Beth Garmai.\n\nIt is also thought that region was known during the Parthian and Sassanid periods as \"Garmakan\", which means the 'Land of Warmth' or the 'Hot Land'. In Persian \"Garm\" means warm;\n\nDuring the Seleucid period, the city was renamed after king Seleucus, Karkha d' Beth Slokh (\"Fort Seleucus\"), a corruption of which is at the root of modern name Karkuk/Kirkuk. After the 7th century, Muslim writers used the name \"Kirkheni\" (Syriac for \"citadel\") to refer to the city. Others used other variant, such as \"Bajermi\" (a corruption of Aramaic \"B'th Garmayeh\" or \"Jermakan\" (a corruption of Persian Garmakan) .\nA cuneiform script found in 1927 at the foot of Kirkuk Citadel stated that the city of Erekha of Babylonia was on the site of Kirkuk. Other sources consider Erekha to have been simply one part of the larger Arrapha metropolis.\n\nIt is suggested that Kirkuk was one of the places occupied by Neanderthals based on archeological findings in the Shanidar Cave settlement. A large amount of pottery shards dating to the Ubaid period were also excavated from several Tells in the city.\n\nAncient Arrapkha was a part of Sargon of Akkad's Akkadian Empire (2335–2154 BC), and city was exposed to the raids of the Lullubi during Naram-Sin's reign.\n\nLater the city was occupied around 2150 BC by language Isolate speaking Zagros Mountains dwellers who were known as the Gutian people by the Semitic and Sumerian of Mesopotamians. Arraphkha was the capital of the short lived Guti kingdom (Gutium), before it was destroyed and the Gutians driven from Mesopotamia by the Neo-Sumerian Empire c. 2090 BC. Arrapkha became a part of the Old Assyrian Empire (c.2025–1750 BC), before Hammurabi briefly subjected Assyria to the short lived Babylonian Empire, after which it again became a part of Assyria c.1725 BC.\n\nHowever, by the middle of the 2nd millennium B.C. the Indo-Aryan Mittani of Anatolia formed a ruling class over the language isolate speaking Hurrians, and began to expand into a Hurri-Mitanni Empire. In the 1450s they attacked Assyria, sacking Assur, and bringing the cities of Gasur and Arrapkha under their control. From c.1450 to 1393 BC the kings of Assyria paid tribute to the kingdom of Mittani.\n\nThe Middle Assyrian Empire (1365–1020 BC) overthrew the Hurri-Mitanni in the mid 14th century BC and Arrapha once more became incorporated into Assyria proper. In the 11th and 10th centuries BC the city rose to prominence, becoming an important city in Assyria until the fall of the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911–605 BC).\nThe Hurri-Mitanni domination of Assyria was broken in the 1390s BC, and Arrapkha once more became an integral part of Assyria with the Middle Assyrian Empire (1365–1020 BC) which saw the Hurrian population driven from the region. It remained as such throughout the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911–605 BC) where it became an important Assyrian city.\n\nAfter the fall of Assyria between 612–599 BC it was still an integral part of the geo-political province of Assyria – Achaemenid Assyria, Athura, Seleucid Syria, Assyria (Roman province) and Assuristan. In the Parthian and Sassanid eras Kirkuk was capital of the small Assyrian state of Beth Garmai (c.160 BC-250 AD).\n\nThe city briefly came to be part of the short lived Median Empire before falling to the Achaemenid Empire (546–332 BC) where it was incorporated into the province of Athura (Achaemenid Assyria).\n\nLater it became part of the Macedonian Empire (332–312 BC) and succeeding Seleucid Empire (311–150 BC) before falling to the Parthian Empire (150 BC-224 AD) as a part of Athura. The Parthians seemed to only exercise loose control, and a number of small Neo-Assyrian kingdoms sprang up in the region between the 2nd century BC and 4th century AD, one such kingdom named \"ܒܝܬܓܪܡܝ\", (that is Bit Garmai in Syriac) had Arrapha as its capital. Christianity also arose during this period, with Arrapha and its surrounds being influenced by the Assyrian Church of the East. The Sassanid Empire destroyed these kingdoms during 3rd and early 4th centuries AD, and Arrapha was incorporated into Sassanid ruled Assuristan (Sassanid Assyria).\n\nIn AD 341, the Zoroastrian Shapur II ordered the massacre of all Assyrian Christians in the Persian Sassanid Empire. During the persecution, about 1,150 were martyred in Arrapha. The city appears on the Peutinger Map of this time. The city remained a part of the Sassanid Empire until the Islamic conquest in the mid 7th century AD.\n\nArab Muslims fought the Sassanid empire in the 7th century AD, conquering the region. The city was a part of the Islamic Caliphate until the tenth century. Kirkuk and the surrounding areas were then ruled by the Seljuk Turks for many years. After the divided empire collapsed, the city became a part of Turkic Zengid dynasty for a century. After the Mongol invasion, the Ilkhanate State was founded in the region and the city became a part of the Mongol Ilkhanate. The Ilkhanate region was then conquered by the Black Sheep Turkomans and White Sheep Turkomans. Ottoman Empire took control of Iraq, Syria, Palestine, Egypt and Hejaz in the early 16th century. Turkish rule continued until World War I when the Ottoman Empire was overthrown in the region by the British Empire.\n\nAt the end of World War I, the British occupied Kirkuk on 7 May 1918. Abandoning the city after about two weeks, the British returned to Kirkuk a few months later after the Armistice of Mudros. Kirkuk avoided the troubles caused by the British-backed Shaykh Mahmud, who quickly attempted to defy the British and establish his own fiefdom in Sulaymaniyah.\n\nAs both Turkey and Great Britain desperately wanted control of the Vilayet of Mosul (of which Kirkuk was a part), the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923 failed to solve the issue. For this reason, the question of Mosul was sent to the League of Nations. A committee travelled to the area before coming to a final decision: the territory south of the \"Brussels line\" belonged to Iraq. By the Treaty of Angora of 1926, Kirkuk became a part of the Kingdom of Iraq.\n\nIn 1927, Iraqi and American drillers working for the foreign-owned and British-led Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC) struck a huge oil gusher at Baba Gurgur (\"St. Blaze\" or father blaze in Kurdish) near Kirkuk. The IPC began exports from the Kirkuk oil field in 1934. The Company moved its headquarters from Tuz Khormatu to a camp on the outskirts of Kirkuk, which they named Arrapha after the ancient city. Arrapha remains a large neighborhood in Kirkuk to this day. The IPC exercised significant political power in the city and played a central role in Kirkuk's urbanization, initiating housing and development projects in collaboration with Iraqi authorities in the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nThe presence of the oil industry had an effect on Kirkuk's demographics. The exploitation of Kirkuk's oil, which began around 1930, attracted both Arabs and Kurds to the city in search of work. Kirkuk, which had been a predominantly Turkmen city, gradually lost its uniquely Turkmen character. At the same time, large numbers of Kurds from the mountains were settling in the uninhabited but cultivable rural parts of the district of Kirkuk. The influx of Kurds into Kirkuk continued through the 1960s. According to the 1957 census, Kirkuk city was 37.63% Iraqi Turkmen, 33.26% Kurdish with Arabs and Assyrians making up less than 23% of its population.\n\nSome analysts believe that poor reservoir-management practices during the Saddam Hussein years may have seriously, and even permanently, damaged Kirkuk's oil field. One example showed an estimated of excess fuel oil being reinjected. Other problems include refinery residue and gas-stripped oil. Fuel oil reinjection has increased oil viscosity at Kirkuk making it more difficult and expensive to get the oil out of the ground.\n\nOver all, between April 2003 and late December 2004 there were an estimated 123 attacks on Iraqi energy infrastructures, including the country's 7,000 km-long pipeline system. In response to these attacks, which cost Iraq billions of US dollars in lost oil-export revenues and repair costs, the US military set up the Task Force Shield to guard Iraq's energy infrastructure and the Kirkuk-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline in particular. In spite of the fact that little damage was done to Iraq's oil fields during the war itself, looting and sabotage after the war ended was highly destructive and accounted for perhaps eighty percent of the total damage.\n\nThe discovery of vast quantities of oil in the region after World War I provided the impetus for the annexation of the former Ottoman Vilayet of Mosul (of which the Kirkuk region was a part), to the Iraqi Kingdom, established in 1921. Since then and particularly from 1963 onwards, there have been continuous attempts to transform the ethnic make-up of the region.\n\nPipelines from Kirkuk run through Turkey to Ceyhan on the Mediterranean Sea and were one of the two main routes for the export of Iraqi oil under the Oil-for-Food Programme following the Gulf War of 1991. This was in accordance with a United Nations mandate that at least 50% of the oil exports pass through Turkey. There were two parallel lines built in 1977 and 1987.\n\nIn 1970 the Iraqi government reached an agreement with Kurdish leader Mustafa Barzani called the March Agreement of 1970, but the question of whether the oil-rich province of Kirkuk would be included within the Kurdish autonomous region remained unresolved, pending a new census.\n\nDespite the signing of the March Agreement, relations between the Kurds and Iraqi government continued to deteriorate due to the unresolved status of Kirkuk, and there were two attempts to assassinate Barzani in 1972. In response to Barzani's continued demands during the early 1970s for Kirkuk to be recognized as part of the autonomous region under the terms of the March Agreement, settlement construction for newly arrived Arab families increased drastically as the Ba'athist government implemented Arabization policies to increase the Arab population of Kirkuk. Kurds were forbidden from buying property in Kirkuk, and could sell their properities only to Arabs. They were denied permission to renovate properties in need of maintenance, and poor Shi'a Arab families were paid to move to Kirkuk, while Kurds were paid to move out.\n\nNegotiations between Barzani's Kurdish Democratic Party and the Iraqi government collapsed in March 1974 and Barzani rejected President Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr declaration of Kurdish autonomy. Many disputes persisted between the Kurds and Arabs and the conflict escalated into the Second Iraqi–Kurdish War (also called the Barzani rebellion). The rebellion collapsed after Iran withdrew it's support for Barzani's forces following the 1975 Algiers Agreement and the Ba'ath regime intensified Arabization efforts.\n\nAfter Barzani's rebellion was defeated in 1974, the districts of Chemchemal and Kelar, which had been part of Kirkuk, became part of Sulaymaniyah and Kifri became part of Diyala province. Other Arab-populated districts, like Zab, became part of Kirkuk. Kurds, Turkmen and Christian populations were forcibly relocated and replaced with Shi'a from Iraq's south. The expulsions continued after the 1991 uprisings. Kurdish villages were razed and thousands of new homes were built, including at least 200 homes for relatives of Iraqi soldiers killed during the Iran-Iraq War. Between 1968, when the Ba'ath Party first rose to power in Iraq, and 2003 between 200,000 and 300,000 persons were forcibly relocated out of Kirkuk. According to the Iraqi Ministry of Planning, by August 2005 (during the Iraq War), approximately 224,544 Kurds had returned to Kirkuk and 52,973 Arab persons had left the city.\n\nIn 1972 the Iraqi government, led by then Vice-President Saddam Hussein, nationalized the Iraqi Petroleum Company (IPC), after being unable to reach an agreement that would increase oil exports and resolve a longstanding dispute over Law 80 of 1961. The Iraqi government began to sell its oil to Eastern bloc countries and the IPC's French partner CFP. After reaching an agreement with the Iraqis in 1973, the IPC members were able to retain some of their interests in southern Iraq through the Basra Petroleum Company but had lost Iraq's main oilfields, including the Kirkuk field.\n\nIn 1991, Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait and was quickly routed by the United States in the First Gulf War (also called \"Operation Desert Storm\"). In the aftermath of the Iraqi army's defeat, rebellions broke out in Iraq; first in southern Iraq on March 1, and in the northern Kurdish region a few days later. By March 24 Kurdish \"peshmerga\" forces had seized control of Kirkuk , but they were only able to hold it until March 28 when it was reclaimed by Hussein's forces. The US and UK began to enforce a no-fly zone in Northern Iraq and a \"de facto\" Kurdish Autonomous region emerged in the North. Arabs families were expelled from the Kurdish region and relocated to Kirkuk, which was still controlled by the Iraqi government. In these circumstances, Hussein's government further intensified the decades long policy of Arabization in Kirkuk, requiring that Kurds, Turkmen and Assyrians fill out \"ethnic identity correction\" forms and register as Arabs and many who refused to comply were forcibly relocated north of the Green Line.\nIn May 1991, Massoud Barzani announced that Baghdad had conceded Kirkuk as the capital of the autonomous region, but when the Iraqi government demanded the Kurds join the Ba'athist government the dispute once again escalated to violent conflict and in October 1991 Iraqi forces had withdrawn from several Kurdish provinces in the North including Erbil, Dohuk and Sulaymaniyah.\n\nAmerican and British military forces led an invasion of Iraq in March 2003, marking the start the Second Iraq War. Kurdish \"peshmerga\" fighters assisted in the 2003 capture of Kirkuk. Though the \"peshmerga\" were allowed to operate even after the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) disbanded and outlawed most of the armed militias in Iraq, the \"peshmerga\" were eventually asked to withdraw from Kirkuk and other Kurdish held provinces.\n\nUnder the supervision of chief executive of Coalition Provisional Authority L. Paul Bremer, a convention was held on 24 May 2003 to select the first City Council in the history of this oil-rich, ethnically divided city. Each of the city's four major ethnic groups was invited to send a 39-member delegation from which they would be allowed to select six to sit on the City Council. Another six council members were selected from among 144 delegates to represent independents social groups such as teachers, lawyers, religious leaders and artists.\n\nKirkuk's 30 members council is made up of five blocs of six members each. Four of those blocs are formed along ethnic lines—Kurds, Arabs, Assyrian and Turkmen—and the fifth is made up of independents. Turkmen and Arabs complained that the Kurds allegedly hold five of the seats in the independent block. They were also infuriated that their only representative at the council's helm was an assistant mayor whom they considered pro-Kurdish. Abdul Rahman Mustafa (), a Baghdad-educated lawyer was elected mayor by 20 votes to 10. The appointment of an Arab, Ismail Ahmed Rajab Al Hadidi (), as deputy mayor went some way towards addressing Arab concerns.\n\nOn 30 June 2005, through a secret direct voting process, with the participation of the widest communities in the province and despite all the political legal security complexities of this process in the country generally and in Kirkuk in particular, Kirkuk witnessed the birth of its first elected Provincial Council. The Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq IECI approved and announced the outcomes of this process, which filled the 41 seats of Kirkuk Provincial Council as follows:\n\nThe new Kirkuk Provincial Council started its second turn on 6 March 2005. Its inaugural session was dedicated to the introduction of its new members, followed by an oath ceremony supervised by Judge Thahir Hamza Salman, the Head of Kirkuk Appellate Court.\n\nKirkuk is located in a disputed area of Iraq that runs from Sinjar on the Syrian border southeast to Khanaqin and Mandali on the Iranian border. Kirkuk has been a disputed territory for around eighty years — Kurds have wanted Kirkuk to become part of Kurdistan Regional Government, which has been opposed by the regions Arab and Turkmen populations. (Turkmen are Turkic people who remained in Iraq after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire).\n\nThe Kurds sought to annex the long disputed territory to the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) through Article 140 of the Iraqi Constitution that was enacted in 2005. Under Article 140 the Ba'athist Arabization policy would be reversed: Displaced Kurds who had relocated to areas in the Kurdish autonomous region would return to Kirkuk, while the Arab Shi'a population would be compensated and relocated to areas in the south. After the Ba'athist regimes demographic and redistricting policies were undone a census and referendum would determine whether Kirkuk would be administered by the KRG or Baghdad.\n\nFollowing the 2010 parliamentary election the Kurds signed the Erbil Agreement and backed Nouri al-Maliki on the condition that Article 140 would be implemented.\n\nFive churches in Kirkuk were targeted with bombs in August 2011 On 12 July 2013, Kirkuk was hit by a deadly bomb, killing 38 people in an attack on a café. A few days prior, on 11 July 2013, over 40 people were killed in a series of bombings and shootings across Iraq, including in Kirkuk.\n\nOn 12 June 2014, following the 2014 Northern Iraq offensive, during which ISIS secured control of Tikrit and nearby areas in Syria, the Iraqi army fled Kirkuk and Kurdish forces took control of the city.\n\nOn 21 October 2016, ISIL launched multiple attacks in Kirkuk to divert Iraqi military resources during the Battle of Mosul. Witnesses reported multiple explosions and gun battles in the city, most centered on a government compound. At least 11 workers, including several Iranians, were killed by a suicide bomber at a power plant in nearby Dibis. The attack was brought to an end by 24 October, with 74 militants being killed and others including the leader of the attackers being arrested.\n\nOn 16 October 2017, the Iraqi national army and PMF militia retook control of Kirkuk, which had been under Kurdish Peshmerga control since 2014.\n\nKirkuk has been a disputed territory for around eighty years —Kurds have wanted Kirkuk to become part of Kurdistan Regional Government, which is opposed by the regions Arab and Turkmen populations. (Turkmen are Turkic people who remained in Iraq after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire).\n\nThe Kurds were promised a referendum to resolve Kirkuk's status under Article 140 of the Iraqi Constitution. Following the 2010 parliamentary election the Kurds signed the Erbil Agreement and backed Nouri al-Maliki on the condition that Article 140 would be implemented.\n\nThe most reliable census concerning the ethnic composition of Kirkuk dates back to 1957. Kirkuk province borders were later altered, the province was renamed al-Ta'mim and Kurdish dominated districts were added to Erbil and Sulamaniya provinces.\n\nA report by the International Crisis Group points out that figures from the 1977 and 1997 censuses (see below) \"are all considered highly problematic, due to suspicions of regime manipulation\" because Iraqi citizens were only allowed to indicate belonging to either the Arab or Kurdish ethnic groups; consequently, this skewed the number of other ethnic minorities. Many Turkmen declared themselves as Arabs (because the Kurds were not desirable under Saddam Hussein's regime), reflecting the changes wrought by Arabisation.\n\nThe three largest ethnicities in Kirkuk are Turkmen, Kurdish and Arabs.\n\nKurds have a long history in Kirkuk before the Baban family. The Baban family was a Kurdish family that, in the 18th and 19th centuries, dominated the political life of the province of Sharazor, in present-day Iraqi Kurdistan. The first member of the clan to gain control of the province and its capital, Kirkuk, was Sulayman Beg. Enjoying almost full autonomy, the Baban family established Kirkuk as their capital. It was from this time that Kurds in Iraq began to view Kirkuk as their capital. This persisted even after the Babans moved their administration to the new town of Sulaymaniya, named after the dynasty's founder, in the late 18th century.\n\nThe Turkmen/Turkoman are descendants of numerous Turkic migration waves. The earliest arrivals date back to the Umayyads and Abbasid eras, when they arrived as military recruits. Considerable Turcoman settlement continued during the Seljuq era when Toghrul entered Iraq in 1055 with his army composed mostly of Oghuz Turks. Kirkuk remained under the control of the Seljuq Empire for 63 years. However, the largest Turkic migration waves occurred during the four centuries of Ottoman rule (1535–1919) when Turkish migrants from Anatolia were encouraged to settle in the region; indeed, it is largely from this period that modern Turkmens claim association with Anatolia and the modern Turkish state.\n\nIn particular, following the conquest of Iraq by the Ottoman sultan Suleiman the Magnificent in 1535, Kirkuk came firmly under Ottoman control and was referred to “Gökyurt” (Blue Homeland) in the Ottoman records, \"perhaps indicating that Kirkuk was identified as a particularly Turkic town by that time.\" Under the Ottomans, Turkish migrations from Anatolia to Kirkuk occurred throughout the centuries; firstly during the initial conquest of 1535, followed by the arrival of Turkish families with the army of sultan Murad IV in 1638, whilst others came later with other notable Ottoman figures. These families occupied the highest socioeconomic strata and held the most important bureaucratic jobs until the end of Ottoman rule. During this period, the Turcoman were the predominant population of Kirkuk city and its close environs but Kurds constituted the majority of the rural population of Kirkuk. Kirkuk had a population near 30,000 in the late 1910s, Turkmens were majority in the city center, dominating the political and economic life of the area.\n\nCurrently Iraqi Turkmen politicians hold just over 20 percent of seats on Kirkuk's city council, while Turkmen leaders say they make up nearly a third of the city.\n\nThe principal Arab extended families in the city of Kirkuk were: the Tikriti and the Hadidi (). The Tikriti family was the main Arab family in Kirkuk coming from Tikrit in the 17th century. Other Arab tribes who settled in Kirkuk during the Ottoman Period are the Al-Ubaid () and the Al-Jiburi (). The Al-Ubaid came from just northwest of Mosul when they were forced out of the area by other Arab tribes of that region. They settled in the Hawija district in Kirkuk in 1805 during the Ottoman Period.\n\nThe Assyrians have an ancient history in Kirkuk, as they do throughout northern Iraq. As Arrapha it was a part of the Old Assyrian Empire (c.1975–1750 BC), and fully incorporated into Assyria proper by the 14th century BC during the Middle Assyrian Empire (1365–105 BC), and remained so until the downfall of the Neo-Assyrian Empire between 615 and 599 BC. After this it was an integral part of Achaemenid Assyria (Athura), and during the Parthian Empire was centre to an independent Neo Assyrian state named Beth Garmai, before being incorporated into Assuristan by the Sassanid Empire.\n\nThe Seleucid town, like many other Upper Mesopotamian cities had a significant indigenous Assyrian population. Christianity was established among them in the 2nd century by the bishop Tuqrītā (Theocritos).\nDuring the Sasanian times the town became an important centre of the Assyrian Church of the East, with several of its bishops rising to the rank of Patriarch. Tensions among Christians and Zoroastrians led to a severe persecution of Christians during the reign of Shapur II (309–379 A.D.) as recorded in the Acts of the Persian Martyrs. Persecution resumed under Yazdegerd II in 445 A.D. who massacred thousands of them. Their situation greatly improved under the Sasanians in the following two centuries after the advent of a national Persian church of free of Byzantine influence, namely Nestorianism. During the Sasanian times the town became an important centre of the Church of the East, with several of its bishops rising to the rank of Patriarch. Tensions among Christians and Zoroastrians led to a severe persecution of Christians during the reign of Shapur II (309-79 A.D.) as recorded in the Acts of the Persian Martyrs. Their situation greatly improved under the Sasanians in the following two centuries. During the Sasanian times the town became an important centre of the Church of the East, with several of its bishops rising to the rank of Patriarch. Persecution resumed under Yazdegerd II in 445 A.D. who massacred thousands of them. Tradition puts the death toll at 12,000 among them the patriarch Shemon Bar Sabbae.\nThe city was known as the centre of the prosperous Ecclesiastical Province of Beth Garmai which lingered until the conquests of Timur Leng in 1400 A.D.\nDuring the Ottoman period most of Kirkuk's Christians followed the Chaldean Catholic Church whose bishop resided in the Cathedral of the Great Martyrion which dates back to the 5th century. The Cathedral was however used as a powder storage and was blown up as the Ottomans retreated in 1918.\n\nThe discovery of oil brought more Christians to Kirkuk, however they were also affected by the Arabization policy of the Baath Party. Their numbers continued to plummet after the American invasion, and they occupy 4% of municipal offices, a percentage thought to be representative of their numbers in the city. They number around 2,000.\n\nThe Armenians of Kirkuk established a church in the old part of the city in 1906, and the population grew afterwards with the arrival of refugees from the Armenian Genocide. During the rule of Saddam Hussein, many Armenians were killed and deported. There are currently around 500 in the city.\n\nJews had a long history in Kirkuk. Ottoman records show that in 1560 there were 104 Jewish homes in Kirkuk, and in 1896 there were 760 Jews in the city. After World War I, the Jewish population increased, especially after Kirkuk became a petroleum center; in 1947 there were 2,350 counted in the census. Jews were generally engaged in commerce and handicraft. Social progress was slow, and it was only in the 1940s that some Jewish students acquired secondary academic education. By 1951 almost all of the Jews had left for Israel.\n\nAncient architectural monuments of Kirkuk include:\n\nThe archaeological sites of Qal'at Jarmo and Yorgan Tepe are found at the outskirts of the modern city. In 1997, there were reports that the government of Saddam Hussein \"demolished Kirkuk's historic citadel with its mosques and ancient church\".\n\nThe architectural heritage of Kirkuk sustained serious damage during World War I (when some pre-Muslim Assyrian Christian monuments were destroyed) and, more recently, during the Iraq War. Simon Jenkins reported in June 2007 that \"eighteen ancient shrines have been lost, ten in Kirkuk and the south in the past month alone\".\n\nKirkuk experiences a hot semi-arid climate (Köppen climate classification: BSh) with extremely hot and dry summers and cool, rainy winters. Snow is rare but it has fallen in 22 February 2004, and from 10 to 11 January 2008.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39925218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39925218", "title": "Lapidary (text)", "text": "Lapidary (text)\n\nA lapidary is a text, often a whole book, giving \"information about the properties and virtues of precious and semi-precious stones\", that is to say a work on gemology. Lapidaries were very popular in the Middle Ages, when belief in the inherent power of gems for various purposes was widely held, and among the wealthy collecting jewels was often an obsession, as well as a popular way to store and transport capital. \n\nThe medieval world had little systematic geological knowledge, and found it difficult to distinguish between many stones with similar colours, or the same stone found in a variety of colours. Lapidaries are often found in conjunction with herbals, and as part of larger encyclopedic works. Belief in the powers of particular types of jewel to achieve effects such as protecting the wearer against diseases or other kinds of harm was strong in the Middle Ages, and explaining these formed much of the material in lapidaries. In the Middle Ages, scholars often distinguish \"three different kinds of lapidaries: 1. the scientific lapidary 2. the magical or astrological lapidary and 3. the Christian symbolic lapidary\", although contemporary readers would have regarded both the first two categories as representing scientific treatments. \n\nThe objects regarded as \"stones\" in the classical, medieval Renaissance periods included many now classified as metallic compounds such as cinnabar, haemetite, calamine, or organic or fossil substances including pearl, coral, amber, and the mythical lyngurium described below. \n\nThere were traditions of lapidary texts outside Europe, in the Islamic world as well as East Asia. The Chinese tradition was for long essentially concerned with the aesthetic qualities of stones, but by the later Middle Ages were influenced by the classical Western tradition, as transmitted through Islamic texts.\n\nThe tradition goes back to ancient Mesopotamia with books like Abnu šikinšu. Theophrastus (died c. 287 BC) treated rocks and other minerals as well as gems, and remained a significant indirect source for the scientific tradition; he was all but unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages, and not translated into Latin until the 15th century. He attempted to fill out with specifics the general remarks on minerals of Aristotle, and took an approach more compatible with modern concepts of mineralogy than any other writer of a full-length treatise on the subject until Georgius Agricola in the 16th century, widely recognised as the \"father\" of modern mineralogy. Both concentrated on the appearance of a wide range of minerals, where they came from, and how they were extracted and used. While Pliny and others wrote on how to detect fake or imitation gems, some, like Jean d'Outremeuse (d. 1400), described how to make them in coloured glass, which by the Late Middle Ages was recommended for use in church metalwork.\n\nMost classical lapidaries are lost; of the 38 works listed by Pliny (in Book XXXVII), only Theophrastus' text survives. There are hundreds of different medieval texts, but most are mainly based on a number of large works which were redacted, translated and adapted in various ways to suit the needs of the individual manuscript. The oldest of these sources was Pliny the Elder's \"Natural History\" from the 1st century AD, Book 37 of which covered gems, drawing on Theophrastus and other classical predecessors. Solinus was another ancient source, and Isidore of Seville an early medieval one. Later works, which also drew on Arabic sources (Avicenna's work was available in Latin), included the verse \"De Gemmis\" (or \"De Lapidibus\") by Bishop Marbode of Rennes (d. 1123), the most popular late medieval lapidary, describing 60 stones, and works by Arnold of Saxony, Vincent of Beauvais and that traditionally attributed (probably wrongly) to Albertus Magnus. Versions of Marbode's work were translated into eight languages, including Hebrew and Irish, and 33 manuscripts survive of the English version alone.\n\nAs in other areas, medieval scholarship was highly conservative. Theophrastus had described lyngurium, a gemstone supposedly formed of the solidified urine of the lynx (the best ones coming from wild males), which was included in \"almost every medieval lapidary\" until it gradually disappeared from view in the 17th century.\n\nJust as drugs derived from plants were and are important in medicine, it seemed natural to the ancient and medieval mind that minerals also had medical properties (and indeed many mineral-derived chemicals are still in medical use). Saint Thomas Aquinas, the dominant theologian of the Late Middle Ages, propounded the view that the whole of the natural world had ultimately been created by God for the benefit of man, leading medieval Christians to expect to find beneficial uses for all materials. Lapidaries listed the medical benefits of particular gems, with \"the most common method of medical application\" being wearing the stone on one's person in a jewellery setting, for example in a ring. Open-backed settings allowing direct contact between the skin and stone were encouraged; otherwise the stone might simply be held against the skin. Other forms of application included ointments containing ground stones or taking the stone internally in ground form, often as part of a cocktail of several different herbal, mineral and other ingredients; this seems to have become especially often mentioned in the 16th and 17th centuries. There were other methods of application; Theophrastus is much less concerned with medical aspects of his subject than the writers of later lapidaries, but he notes that smaragus is good for the eyes, and operates by being looked at.\n\nStones were covered in other general medical books, ranging from the 1st century Greek \"De Materia Medica\" by Dioscurides to a wide range of Early Modern medical self-help books.\n\nA school of lapidaries expounded the symbolism of gems mentioned in the Bible, especially two sets of precious and semi-precious stones listed there. The first of these were the twelve jewels, in engraved gem form, on the Priestly breastplate described in the Book of Exodus (), and the second the twelve stones mentioned in the Book of Revelation as forming the foundation stones of the New Jerusalem ()—eight of these are the same (or were in the Vulgate translation). The late Anglo-Saxon Old English Lapidary took the latter group as its subject. The symbolism of these sets had been explored by theologians since Saints Jerome and Augustine. Various other schemes were developed, linking stones to particular saints, classes of angels, and other areas of Christianity.\n\nAnother type of lapidary dealt with the astrological relationships and significance of gems; one of the largest was the \"Lapidary of Alfonso X\" or \"Alfonso the Learned\", King of Castile (r. 1252–1284), which was compiled for him by other authors, mostly Muslim. This was in several parts and set out the relationships between the Signs of the Zodiac, with each degree of each sign relating to a stone, and the astrological planets and other bodies, again related to particular stones. The strength of the medical and magical properties of stones was said to vary with the movements of the heavenly bodies that controlled them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5939534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5939534", "title": "List of Scouting memorials", "text": "List of Scouting memorials\n\nSince the birth and expansion of the Scout movement in the first decade of the 20th century, many Scouting memorials, monuments and gravesites have been erected throughout the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nErected on 28 May 1982, offered by the Scouts of Wiltz with the help of Scouts and Guides of the world, in honour of Lord Robert Baden-Powell 1857–1941 Founder of the Scout Movement.\nThe sculpture of the Roman travertine is 3.5 meters high with a base approximately 11 tons and was made by the sculptor Lucien Wercollier from Luxembourg.\nScouts who visited Wiltz each donated 1 penny. This paid for the monument and so it got its name.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAt Gilwell Park, Gembrook, Victoria the De Molnar Memorial Hall was opened 26 January 1964.\nThe building commemorates the former International Commissioner and Deputy Camp Chief of Hungary and Chairman of Melbourne Scout District Fritz de Molnar.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15300969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15300969", "title": "Martianus Hiberniensis", "text": "Martianus Hiberniensis\n\nMartin Hiberniensis (Martin the Irishman) (819 - 875), was a teacher, scribe, and master of the cathedral school at Laon.\n\nHiberniensis, \"one of the greatest Irish Carolingian scholars,\" notes that he was an exile in The \"Annals of Laon\" (\"Annales Laudunenses\"). There is not much known about the reason for his exile, or what happened after.\n\nMartianus is assumed to have been a lay teacher all his adult life; there is no indication that he was a monk. He settled at Laon in the late 840s during the term of Bishop Pardule. By the early 850s, he was master of the cathedral school where he remained until the end of his life. His students included Dido, Manno, Bernard, and Hincmar.\n\nHis intellectual interests included computus, exegesis, medicine, history, grammar, and Greek. He annotated the \"Annals of Laon,\" the computistical works of Bede. He also provided a commentary on Martianus Capella's \"De nuptiis Philologiae et Mercurii\" and preserved fragments of a lost commentary on Virgil by Aelius Donatus.\n\nFollowing the deposition of Hincmar, Martianus actively helped restore order in the cathedral chapter.\n\nA copy of a letter from Martianus to a fellow humanist, Servatus Lupus of Ferrières, has survived. Martianus is thought to have corresponded with Irish and continental scholars at the court of Charles the Bald.\n\n\"Martin is especially remarkable for his considerable knowledge of Greek, being particularly noted as the scribe of the most extensive Greek-Latin thesaurus then in existence in western Europe (Laon MS 444), which he may possibly have copied from an Irish exemplar. He has also been credited with a work known as 'Scholica graecarum glossarum,' a series of notes on Greek words. Additionally, he copied some Greek verse by John Scottus Eriugena, with whom he appears to have been acquainted.\" (Breen, 2009, p. 405)\n\nMartianus was an innovative calligrapher. He contributed to what is called the 'grammar of legibility' by use of word separation and punctuation, almost unheard of in his lifetime. \"\"In his role as teacher and supervisor of a school of scribes he cultivated the use of Carolingian minuscule, a very neat and legible type\" in place of his native insular script\" (Breen, 2009, p. 405)\n\nAt least twenty-one manuscripts survive containing specimens of his autograph, which are now housed in Laon, Paris, and Berlin.\n\nMartianus was an avid collector of manuscripts, which he bequeathed to Laon.\n\nBreen (2009, p. 405) describes Martianus's legacy as not as an original thinker and translator of works in Greek, but as a humanist and educator of great distinction.\"\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17089123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17089123", "title": "Martin Bauzer", "text": "Martin Bauzer\n\nMartin Bauzer (11 November 1595 – 23 December 1668), also known as Martin Bavčer (other spellings: Martin Baučer, Martin Bavčar), was a historian from Gorizia who wrote in Latin.\n\nBauzer was born in the village of Selo near Ajdovščina in the Vipava Valley, in what was then the County of Gorizia, a part of the Holy Roman Empire (now the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region of northeastern Italy). He studied philosophy and graduated from it in the Moravian town of Brno, where he also joined the Jesuit order. He then studied theology before being ordained a Catholic priest.\n\nBauzer's most important work is \"The History of Noricum and Friuli\" (\"Historia rerum Noricarum et Forojuliensium\"; 1663), written in Latin in ten books and comprising a period going from the Deluge to the coronation of Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor. In its original language, it has never been published, but it was published in the Slovene translation in 1975 and in 1991. His other important works include a Chronicle of Contemporary Events and a comprehensive biography of the Counts of Gorizia.\n\nBauzer died in Gorizia in 1668.\n\nAccording to the Slovene historian Bogo Grafenauer, Bauzer's descriptions of earlier periods are of little worth, while his accounts of contemporary events are an important source for the history of the 17th century.\n"}
{"id": "328860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328860", "title": "Mill (currency)", "text": "Mill (currency)\n\nThe mill or (₥) (sometimes mil in the UK, when discussing property taxes in the United States, or previously in Cyprus and Malta) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in accounting. In the United States, it is a notional unit equivalent to of a United States dollar (a one-hundredth of a dime or a tenth of a cent). In the United Kingdom it was proposed during the decades of discussion on the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling. Several other currencies used the mill, such as the Maltese lira.\n\nThe term comes from the Latin \"millesimum\", meaning \"thousandth part\".\n\nIn the United States, the term was first used by the Continental Congress in 1786, being described as the \"lowest money of account, of which 1000 shall be equal to the federal dollar.\"\n\nThe Coinage Act of 1792 describes milles and other subdivisions of the dollar:\n\nThe mint of Philadelphia made half cents worth 5 mills each from 1793 to 1857.\n\nTokens in this denomination were issued by some states and local governments (and by some private interests) for such uses as payment of sales tax. These were of inexpensive material such as tin, aluminium, plastic or paper. Rising inflation depreciated the value of these tokens in relation to the value of their constituent materials; this depreciation led to their eventual abandonment. Virtually none were made after the 1960s.\n\nToday, most Americans would refer to fractions of a cent rather than mills, a term which is widely unknown. For example, a gasoline price of $3.019 per gallon, if pronounced in full, would be \"three dollars (and) one and nine-tenths cents\". Discount coupons, such as those for grocery items, usually include in their fine print a statement such as \"Cash value less than of 1 cent.\" There are also common occurrences of \"half-cent\" discounts on goods bought in quantity. However, the term \"mill\" is still used when discussing billing in the electric power industry as shorthand for the lengthier \" of a dollar per kilowatt hour\". The term is also commonly used when discussing stock prices, the issuance of founder's stock of a company, and cigarette taxes.\n\nProperty taxes are also expressed in terms of mills per dollar assessed (a mill levy, known more widely in the US as a \"mill rate\"). For instance, with a millage rate of 2.8₥, a house with an assessment of $100,000 would be taxed (2.8 × 100,000) = 280,000₥, or $280.00. The term is often spelled \"mil\" when used in this context.\n\nThe term mill is often used in finance, particularly in conjunction with equity market microstructure. The term is sometimes used as one-hundredth of a cent. For example, a broker that charges 5 mils per share is taking in $5 every 10,000 shares traded. Additionally, in finance the term is sometimes spelled \"mil\".\n\nSome exchanges allow prices to be accounted in ten-thousandths of a dollar ($29.4125, for example). This last digit is sometimes called a \"decimill\" or \"deci-mill\", but no exchange officially recognizes the term.\n\nMark Twain introduced a fictional elaboration of the mill in \"A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court\". When Hank Morgan, the American time traveler, introduces decimal currency to Arthurian Britain, he has it denominated in cents, mills, and \"milrays\", or tenths of a mill (the name perhaps suggested by \"myriad\", meaning ten thousand or by the Portuguese and Brazilian milreis).\n\nMills are or were formerly used in some cities to express property tax rates, in the same manner as in the U.S.\n\nProposed on several occasions as a division of the British pound under the \"Pound and Mil\" system, the mill was occasionally used in accounting. The 1862 report from the \"Select Committee on Weights and Measures\" noted that the Equitable Insurance Company had been keeping accounts in mills (rather than in shillings and pence) for such purposes for over 100 years. Such a unit of a thousandth of a pound would have been similar in value to the then-existing farthing coin ( of a pound). By the time British currency was decimalised in 1971, the farthing had lost its legal tender status eleven years prior, and thus the mill was not necessary.\n\nMaltese lira coinage included 2 mil, 3 mil, and 5 mil coins from 1972 to 1994, with 10 mils being equal to one cent. Prices could still be marked using mils until the country switched to the euro in 2008, however these were then rounded up for accounting purposes.\n\nThe short-lived and unrecognized Republic of Rose Island (a micronation off the Italian coast) had the mill as its official currency (\"milo\" in the official language Esperanto).\n\nThe Palestine pound, used as the currency of the British Mandate for Palestine from 1927 to 1948, was divided into 1,000 mils. Its successor currencies, the Israeli lira and the Jordanian dinar, were also divided into units, respectively named the \"peruta\" and \"fils\". The Israeli peruta lasted until 1960, and the Jordanian fils until 1992.\n\nBetween 1863 and 1866 the mill coin was the lowest denomination issued by the British government in Hong Kong; it was eliminated due to its unpopularity.\n\nThe mill was used with the Cypriot pound, starting with decimalization in 1955, and lasting until 1983. However, coins smaller than 5 mils ceased being used in the mid 1960s. When switched to cents in 1983, a ½-cent coin was struck that was abolished a few years later.\n\nCoins for 5 millimes (mills) are still in circulation. However, larger coins such as the 10, 20, 50, and 100 millime coins are still in use and production.\n\n"}
{"id": "42598427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42598427", "title": "Miroslav Kurelac", "text": "Miroslav Kurelac\n\nMiroslav Kurelac (May 25, 1926 – October 7, 2004) was a Croatian historian.\n\nHe was born in Zagreb. He received a degree in history in 1954 at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, and a Ph.D. at the University of Zadar in 1987. Until 1956 he worked as an archivist in the Archives of the City of Zagreb. In 1954 he took a specialist training at the Archives Nationales de France where he attended courses in paleography at the École des Hautes Études at the Sorbonne. In 1956 he became an assistant at the Historical Institute of the Academy in Zagreb, where he worked since 1988 as a research associate, and since 1990 as a scientific advisor. From the 1979 he served as a manager, and in the period 1995-2002 as the Head of the Department of Historical Sciences at the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In 1994 he was elected as an associate member of the Academy.\n\nIn his scientific papers Kurelac studied the Croatian historiography of the period of Humanism and the Renaissance, especially the historiographical work of Ivan Lučić. His main work is \"Ivan Lučić-Lucius: otac hrvatske historiografije\" (\"Ivan Lučić-Lucius: The Father of Croatian Historiography\"), 1994.\n\nHe died in Zagreb.\n"}
{"id": "2393552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393552", "title": "New World", "text": "New World\n\nThe New World is one of the names used for the majority of Earth's Western Hemisphere, specifically the Americas (including nearby islands such as those of the Caribbean and Bermuda).\n\nThe term originated in the early 16th century after Europeans made landfall in what would later be called the Americas in the age of discovery, expanding the geographical horizon of classical geographers, who had thought of the world as consisting of Africa, Europe, and Asia, collectively now referred to as the Old World (a.k.a. Afro-Eurasia).\n\nThe phrase gained prominence after the publication of a pamphlet titled \"Mundus Novus\" attributed to Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci. \n\nThe Americas were also referred to as the \"fourth part of the world\".\n\nThe terms \"Old World\" vs. \"New World\" are meaningful in historical context and for the purpose of distinguishing the world's major ecozones, and to classify plant and animal species that originated therein.\n\nOne can speak of the \"New World\" in a historical context, e.g., when discussing the voyages of Christopher Columbus, the Spanish conquest of Yucatán and other events of the colonial period. For lack of alternatives, the term is also still useful to those discussing issues that concern the Americas and the nearby oceanic islands, such as Bermuda and Clipperton Island, collectively.\n\nThe term \"New World\" is used in a biological context, when one speaks of Old World (Palearctic, Afrotropic) and New World species (Nearctic, Neotropic). Biological taxonomists often attach the \"New World\" label to groups of species that are found exclusively in the Americas, to distinguish them from their counterparts in the \"Old World\" (Europe, Africa and Asia), e.g. New World monkeys, New World vultures, New World warblers.\n\nThe label is also often used in agriculture. Asia, Africa, and Europe share a common agricultural history stemming from the Neolithic Revolution, and the same domesticated plants and animals spread through these three continents thousands of years ago, making them largely indistinct and useful to classify together as \"Old World\". Common Old World crops (e.g., barley, lentils, oats, peas, rye, wheat), and domesticated animals (e.g., cattle, chickens, goats, horses, pigs, sheep) did not exist in the Americas until they were introduced by post-Columbian contact in the 1490s (see \"Columbian Exchange\"). Conversely, many common crops were originally domesticated in the Americas before they spread worldwide after Columbian contact, and are still often referred to as \"New World crops\"; common beans (\"phaseolus\"), maiz, and squash – the \"three sisters\" – as well as the avocado, tomato, and wide varieties of capsicum (bell pepper, chili pepper, etc.), and the turkey were originally domesticated by pre-Columbian peoples in Mesoamerica, while agriculturalists in the Andean region of South America brought forth the cassava, peanut, potato, quinoa and domesticated animals like the alpaca, guinea pig and llama. Other famous New World crops include the cashew, cocoa, rubber, sunflower, tobacco, and vanilla, and fruits like the guava, papaya and pineapple. There are rare instances of overlap, e.g., the calabash (bottle-gourd), cotton, and yam, and the dog, are believed to have been domesticated separately in both the Old and New World, their early forms possibly brought along by Paleo-Indians from Asia during the last glacial period.\n\nIn wine terminology, \"New World\" has a different definition. \"New World wines\" include not only North American and South American wines, but also those from South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, and all other locations outside the traditional wine-growing regions of Europe, North Africa and the Near East.\n\nThe term \"New World\" (\"Mundus Novus\") was first coined by the Florentine explorer Amerigo Vespucci, in a letter written to his friend and former patron Lorenzo di Pier Francesco de' Medici in the Spring of 1503, and published (in Latin) in 1503–04 under the title \"Mundus Novus\". Vespucci's letter contains arguably the first explicit articulation in print of the hypothesis that the lands discovered by European navigators to the west were not the edges of Asia, as asserted by Christopher Columbus, but rather an entirely different continent, a \"New World\".\n\nVespucci first approached this realization in June 1502, during a famous chance meeting between two different expeditions at the watering stop of \"Bezeguiche\" (the Bay of Dakar, Senegal) – his own outgoing expedition, on its way to chart the coast of newly discovered Brazil, and the vanguard ships of the Second Portuguese India armada of Pedro Álvares Cabral, returning home from India. Having already visited the Americas in prior years, Vespucci probably found it difficult to reconcile what he had already seen in the West Indies, with what the returning sailors told him of the East Indies. Vespucci wrote a preliminary letter to Lorenzo, while anchored at Bezeguiche, which he sent back with the Portuguese fleet – at this point only expressing a certain puzzlement about his conversations. Vespucci was finally convinced when he proceeded on his mapping expedition through 1501–02, covering the huge stretch of coast of eastern Brazil. After returning from Brazil, in the Spring of 1503, Amerigo Vespucci composed the \"Mundus Novus\" letter in Lisbon to Lorenzo in Florence, with its famous opening paragraph:\n\nVespucci's letter was a publishing sensation in Europe, immediately (and repeatedly) reprinted in several other countries.\n\nWhile Amerigo Vespucci is usually credited for coming up with the term \"New World\" (\"Mundus Novus\") for the Americas in his 1503 letter, certainly giving it its popular cachet, similar terms had nonetheless been used and applied before him.\n\nThe Venetian explorer Alvise Cadamosto had used the term \"un altro mundo\" (\"another world\") to refer to sub-Saharan Africa, which he explored in 1455 and 1456 on behalf of the Portuguese. However, this was merely a literary flourish, not a suggestion of a new \"fourth\" part of the world. Cadamosto was quite aware sub-Saharan Africa was firmly part of the African continent.\n\nThe Italian-born Spanish chronicler Peter Martyr d'Anghiera often shares credit with Vespucci for designating the Americas as a new world. Peter Martyr used the term \"Orbe Novo\" (literally, \"New Globe\", but often translated as \"New World\") in the title of his history of the discovery of the Americas as a whole, which began to appear in 1511 (cosmologically, \"orbis\" as used here refers to the whole hemisphere, while \"mundus\" refers to the land within it). Peter Martyr had been writing and circulating private letters commenting on Columbus's discoveries since 1493 and, from the start, doubted Columbus's claims to have reached East Asia (\"the Indies\"), and consequently came up with alternative names to refer to them. Only a few weeks after Columbus's return from his first voyage, Peter Martyr wrote letters referring to Columbus's discovered lands as the \"western antipodes\" (\"antipodibus occiduis\", letter of May 14, 1493), the \"new hemisphere of the earth\" (\"novo terrarum hemisphaerio\", September 13, 1493), and in a letter dated November 1, 1493, refers to Columbus as the \"discoverer of the new globe\" (\"Colonus ille novi orbis repertor\"). A year later (October 20, 1494), Peter Martyr again refers to the marvels of the New Globe (\"Novo Orbe\") and the \"Western hemisphere.\"(\"ab occidente hemisphero\").\n\nChristopher Columbus touched the continent of South America in his 1498 third voyage. In his own 1499 letter to the Catholic Monarchs of Spain, reporting the results of his third voyage, Columbus relates how the massive waters of the Orinoco delta rushing into the Gulf of Paria implied that a previously unknown continent must lie behind it. However, bowing to the classical tripartite division of the world, Columbus discards that hypothesis and proposes instead that the South American landmass is not a \"fourth\" continent, but rather the terrestrial paradise of Biblical tradition, not a previously unknown \"new\" part of the world, but a land already \"known\" (but location undiscovered) by Christendom. In another letter (to the nurse of Prince John, written 1500), Columbus refers to having reached a \"new heavens and world\" (\"nuevo cielo e mundo\") and that he had placed \"another world\" (\"otro mundo\") under the dominion of the Kings of Spain.\n\nThe Vespucci passage above applied the \"New World\" label to merely the continental landmass of South America. At the time, most of the continent of North America was not yet discovered, and Vespucci's comments did not eliminate the possibility that the islands of the Antilles discovered earlier by Christopher Columbus might still be the eastern edges of Asia, as Columbus continued to insist down to his dying day. A critical step in the transition was the conference of navigators (\"Junta de Navegantes\") assembled by the Spanish monarchs at Toro in 1505, and continued at Burgos in 1508, to digest all existing information about the Indies, come to an agreement on what had really been discovered, and set out the future goals of Spanish exploration. Amerigo Vespucci attended both conferences, and seems to have had an outsized influence on them – Vespucci ended up being appointed the first \"piloto mayor\", the chief of navigation of Spain, at Burgos. Although the proceedings of the Toro-Burgos conferences are missing, it is almost certain that Vespucci articulated his recent \"New World\" thesis to his fellow navigators there. It was during these conferences when Spanish officials seem to have finally accepted that the Antilles and the known stretch of Central America were definitely \"not\" the Indies they had originally sought, and Columbus had insisted they were, and set out the new goal for Spanish explorers: to find a sea passage or strait through the Americas which would permit them to sail to Asia proper. In English usage the term \"New World\" was problematic and only accepted relatively late.\n\nWhile it became generally accepted after Vespucci that Columbus's discoveries were not Asia but a \"New World\", the geographic relationship between the two continents was still unclear. That there must be a large ocean between Asia and the Americas was implied by the known existence of vast continuous sea along the coasts of East Asia. Given the size of the Earth as calculated by Eratosthenes this left a large space between Asia and the newly discovered lands. \n\nEven prior to Vespucci, several maps, e.g. the Cantino planisphere of 1502 and the Canerio map of 1504, placed a large open ocean between China on the east side of the map, and the inchoate largely water-surrounded North American and South American discoveries on the western side of map. However, out of uncertainty, they depicted a finger of the Asian land mass stretching across the top to the eastern edge of the map, suggesting it carried over into the western hemisphere (e.g. the Cantino Planisphere denotes Greenland as \"Punta d'Asia\" – \"edge of Asia\"). Some maps, e.g. the 1506 Contarini–Rosselli map and the 1508 Johannes Ruysch map, bowing to Ptolemaic authority and Columbus's assertions, have the northern Asian landmass stretching well into the western hemisphere and merging with known North America (Labrador, Newfoundland, etc.). These maps place the island of Japan near Cuba and leave the South American continent – Vespucci's \"New World\" proper – detached and floating below by itself. The Waldseemüller map of 1507, which accompanied the famous \"Cosmographiae Introductio\" volume (which includes reprints of Vespucci's letters) comes closest to modernity by placing a completely open sea (with no stretching land fingers) between Asia on the eastern side and the New World (being represented two times in the same map in a different way: with and without a sea passage in the middle of what is now named Central America) on the western side – which (on what is now named South America) that same map famously labels simply \"America\". However, Martin Waldseemüller's map of 1516 retreats considerably from his earlier map and back to classical authority, with the Asian land mass merging into North America (which he now calls \"Terra de Cuba Asie partis\"), and quietly drops the \"America\" label from South America, calling it merely \"Terra Incognita\".\n\nThe western coast of the New World – the Pacific Ocean – was only discovered in 1513 by Vasco Núñez de Balboa. But it would take a few more years – Ferdinand Magellan's voyage of 1519–22 – to determine that the Pacific definitely formed a single large body of water separating Asia from the Americas. It would be several more years before the Pacific Coast of North America was mapped, dispelling lingering doubts. Until the discovery of the Bering Straits in the 17th century, there was no absolute confirmation that Asia and North America were not connected, and some European maps of the 16th century still continued to hopefully depict North America connected by a land bridge to Asia (e.g. the 1533 Johannes Schöner globe).\n\nIn 1524, the term was used by Giovanni da Verrazzano in a record of his voyage that year along the Atlantic coast of North America, land that is now part of the United States and Canada.\n"}
{"id": "13816804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13816804", "title": "Philostephanus", "text": "Philostephanus\n\nPhilostephanus of Cyrene (Philostephanus Cyrenaeus) was a Hellenistic writer from North Africa, who was a pupil of the poet Callimachus in Alexandria and doubtless worked there during the 3rd century BC.\n\nHis history of Cyprus, \"De Cypro\", written during the reign of Ptolemy Philopator (222–206 BC), has been lost, but it was known to at least two Christian writers, Clement of Alexandria and Arnobius. It contained a narration of the story of the mythical Pygmalion, of Cyprus, who fashioned a cult image of the Greek goddess Aphrodite that came to life. Ovid depended on the account by Philostephanus for his dramatised and expanded version in \"Metamorphoses\", through which the Pygmalion myth was transmitted to the medieval and modern world.\n\nThe remarks on Cyprus seem to have come from a larger work, \"On Islands\". Scattered brief quotes of Philostephanus on islands refer also to Sicily, Calauria off the coast of Troezen and Stryme, off the Thracian coast. Pliny's Natural History adduces Philostephanus as a source for the assertion that Jason was the first that went out to sea in a long vessel. \n\nOther works of Philostephanus cited in surviving passages from other authors were works \"Of the Cities of Asia\", \"On Cyllene\", \"Epirotica\" (\"On Epirus\"), \"On Marvellous Rivers\" \"On Inventions\", and various commentaries. \n\nThe fragments of Philostephanus, surviving in quotes from other authors, were published in \"Fragmenta historicorum graecorum\"\n\nAnother Philostephanus was a comic poet, of whom little is known.\n\n"}
{"id": "18069618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18069618", "title": "Sealers' War", "text": "Sealers' War\n\nThe Sealers' War, also known as the \"War of the Shirt\", was a conflict in southern New Zealand that started in 1810. It began following the theft, by Māori chief, of a red shirt, a knife, and several other items from the sealing vessel \"Sydney Cove\" in Otago Harbour. The war gave rise to the view, among some Europeans, that the Māori were treacherous by nature. The true cause was revealed by the discovery of the Creed manuscript in 2003, which records the views of Māori who were alive at the time of the events.\n\nLate in 1810, \"Sydney Cove\", an English sealing vessel, was anchored in Otago Harbour while its crew were working at Cape Saunders on the Otago Peninsula. Māori were in the habit of visiting such vessels to trade for pork and potatoes. During one such visit, a Māori chief, Te Wareripirau, according to one of Creed's informants, or Te Wahia, according to the other, stole a red shirt and a knife amongst other items. Some of the sailors attacked the chief with cutlasses. He \"fled from them with his bowels protruding through the wound in the side\" and died. \"The Europeans fled, by ship & boats to the Molyneux\" – the modern Clutha River mouth – where they attacked and killed another chief, Te Pahi. They left behind James Caddell who became one of the first Pākehā-Māori.\n\nAt Waipapa Point one of \"Sydney Cove\"s gangs landed and proceeded overland to the Mataura River mouth, where they were surprised and killed by Māori under Honegai. The \"Sydney Cove\" paused at Stewart Island before continuing its voyage. Men from \"Brothers\", who had been in the vicinity of Otago Harbour, proceeded south late in 1810. They were seeking a passing ship to take them back to Sydney, but four of them were surprised and killed.\n\nThese tensions still existed when six lascars, Indian seamen, from \"Matilda\", absconded from her in a long boat somewhere on the south west coast in 1814. Encountering Māori, apparently at Dusky Sound, three were killed and eaten and the others enslaved. \"Matilda\" went on to Stewart Island and from there sent Robert Brown in an open boat to look for the missing men. He came up the east coast and touched at Cape Saunders before going on up the coast to a point some eight miles north of Moeraki. There he and his seven companions hauled the boat ashore and went to sleep under it, but were seen by Māori and attacked. All but two were killed and eaten. The two survivors fled through the night to what is now known as Bobby's Head near the Pleasant Valley. Māori initially entertained the survivors, but upon discussion with later arriving Māori who had participated in the attack, killed and ate the two survivors as well. The mere greenstone club used to dispatch one of them became legendary. Meanwhile, Fowler brought \"Matilda\" into Otago Harbour where he received a friendly reception from the Māori that he later reported to correct a misconception that the Māori were hostile to Europeans and unlikely candidates for conversion to Christianity.\n\nIn 1815 William Tucker, who had been in the Otago Harbour area as early as 1809, landed again from a Hobart sealer and settled at Whareakeake, later called Murdering Beach. There he kept goats and sheep, had a Māori wife (but no children), built a house (or houses), and apparently set up an export trade in ornamental hei-tiki – jade neck pendants made from old adzes. He left but returned on \"Sophia\", a Hobart sealer commanded by James Kelly, apparently with other Europeans meaning to settle. \"Sophia\" anchored in Otago Harbour and Tucker – \"Taka\" to Māori – was well-received but the harbour chief Korako wouldn't ferry across other Māori. This was late in 1817. Two or three days later Kelly went to visit Whareakeake in an open boat, with Tucker and five others, having been persuaded by Tucker not to take their firearms. At Whareakeake they had a friendly reception and encountered one of the \"Matilda\"s lascars, an Indian seaman who told them of his countrymen's fate. It seems Tucker had gone into his house but Kelly was attacked, at the instigation of the Whareakeake chief Te Matahaere. In the ensuing melee Veto Viole, John Griffiths, and William Tucker were killed. (Griffiths was Kelly's brother-in-law.) The dead were eaten. Escaping by longboat, Kelly returned to \"Sophia\" in Otago Harbour, but suspected that the Māori there were planning an attack. As a preemptive measure, he attacked the Māori first. Then, and over the next few days, he apparently killed several people, possibly including Korako, destroyed multiple canoes and set fire to \"the beautiful City of Otago.\"\n\nThese hostilities and the diminution of seal populations, saw a decline in sealing ventures to southern New Zealand. It seems this was unknown to Captain Abimeleck Riggs of the American sealer \"General Gates\", who in late 1819 landed a gang at Stewart Island. He had a troubled cruise and it wasn't until 1821 that he returned. He then dropped a second gang and then a third at Chalky Inlet. Māori attacked the second gang in October 1821. Six of his men were captured, taken north up the west coast, where eventually four were killed and eaten. Meanwhile, the Māori attacked and ate a young boy that the gang at Chalky left to look after their stores. The Māori pursued the rest of the gang and killed two members before the survivors came across Captain Edwardson of \"Snapper\" in Chalky Inlet. Their pursuers included men, women, and dogs, all under the leadership of \"Te Pehi\", \"Topi\", and \"Te Whera\". With them were two Pākehā-Māori. Also with them was James Caddell, who, originally captured from \"Sydney Cove\", had acculturated himself to Māori society, in part by being tattooed and married to a high-born Māori woman. Edwardson now took Caddell to Sydney, where his arrival caused a sensation in 1823 and where a peace was brokered. Thereafter, sealing resumed although it soon petered out again because the animal populations had been severely depleted.\n\nThe Sealers' War – really a rolling feud – may have seen seventy-four people killed, among them forty-three Pākehā (non-Māori). William Tucker was not a cause of it, as has previously been thought, but one of its victims. The Creed manuscript clearly reveals the original cause, invisible to history for nearly two hundred years, identifies the later triggers of particular events while observing they were all consequences of the first theft and its revenge, often visited on people unaware of what had set these events in motion. When people of different cultures clash they are quick to react against any member of the other group, regardless of personal responsibility. The Sealers' War is a classic example of the tendency of incident to turn into inter-communal strife at the interface of cultural contact.\n\n"}
{"id": "149582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149582", "title": "Silver jubilee", "text": "Silver jubilee\n\nSilver jubilee is a celebration held to mark a 25th anniversary. The anniversary celebrations can be of a wedding anniversary, the 25th year of a monarch's reign or anything that has completed a 25-year mark.\n\nIn Pakistan and India, a silver jubilee film is one shown continuously in cinemas in one city for 25 weeks.\n\n"}
{"id": "53091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53091", "title": "Spanish colonization of the Americas", "text": "Spanish colonization of the Americas\n\nThe overseas expansion under the Crown of Castile was initiated under the royal authority and first accomplished by the Spanish \"conquistadors\". The Americas were incorporated into the Spanish Empire, with the exception of Brazil, Canada, and several other small countries in South America and The Caribbean. The crown created civil and religious structures to administer the region. The motivations for colonial expansion were trade and the spread of the Catholic faith through indigenous conversions.\n\nBeginning with the 1492 arrival of Christopher Columbus in the Caribbean and continuing control of vast territory for over three centuries, the Spanish Empire would expand across the Caribbean Islands, half of South America, most of Central America and much of North America (including present day Mexico, Florida and the Southwestern and Pacific Coastal regions of the United States). It is estimated that during the colonial period (1492–1832), a total of 1.86 million Spaniards settled in the Americas and a further 3.5 million immigrated during the post-colonial era (1850–1950); the estimate is 250,000 in the 16th century, and most during the 18th century as immigration was encouraged by the new Bourbon Dynasty. In contrast, the outcome for indigenous populations was much worse, with an estimated 8 million deaths following the initial conquest through contact with old world diseases.\n\nSpain enjoyed a cultural golden age in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries when silver and gold from American mines increasingly financed a long series of European and North African wars. Spanish wars of conquest included laying waste to much of the Netherlands and a failed attempt to invade England.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the Spanish American wars of independence resulted in the secession and subsequent balcanization of most Spanish colonies in the Americas, except for Cuba and Puerto Rico, which were finally given up in 1898, following the Spanish–American War, together with Guam and the Philippines in the Pacific. Spain's loss of these last territories politically ended the Spanish rule in the Americas.\n\nThe Catholic Monarchs Isabella of Castile, Queen of Castile and her husband King Ferdinand, King of Aragon, pursued a policy of joint rule of their kingdoms and created a single Spanish monarchy. Even though Castile and Aragon were ruled jointly by their respective monarchs, they remained separate kingdoms. The Catholic Monarchs gave official approval for the plans of Genoese mariner Christopher Columbus for a voyage to reach India by sailing West. The funding came from the queen of Castile, so the profits from Spanish expedition flowed to Castile. In the extension of Spanish sovereignty to its overseas territories, authority for expeditions of discovery, conquest, and settlement resided in the monarchy.\n\nColumbus made four voyages to the West Indies as the monarchs granted Columbus the governorship of the new territories, and financed more of his trans-Atlantic journeys. He founded La Navidad on the island later named Hispaniola (now divided into Haiti and the Dominican Republic), in what is the present-day Haiti on his first voyage. After its destruction by the indigenous Taino people, the town of Isabella was begun in 1493, on his second voyage. In 1496 his brother, Bartholomew, founded Santo Domingo. By 1500, despite a high death rate, there were between 300 and 1000 Spanish settled in the area. The local Taíno people continued to resist, refusing to plant crops and abandoning their Spanish-occupied villages. The first mainland explorations were followed by a phase of inland expeditions and conquest. In 1500 the city of Nueva Cádiz was founded on the island of Cubagua, Venezuela, followed by the founding of Santa Cruz by Alonso de Ojeda in present-day Guajira peninsula. Cumaná in Venezuela was the first permanent settlement founded by Europeans in the mainland Americas, in 1501 by Franciscan friars, but due to successful attacks by the indigenous people, it had to be refounded several times, until Diego Hernández de Serpa's foundation in 1569. The Spanish founded San Sebastian de Uraba in 1509 but abandoned it within the year. There is indirect evidence that the first permanent Spanish mainland settlement established in the Americas was Santa María la Antigua del Darién.\n\nThe Spanish conquest of Mexico is generally understood to be the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire (1519–21) which was the base for later conquests of other regions. Later conquests were protracted campaigns with less spectacular results than the conquest of the Aztecs. The Spanish conquest of Yucatán, the Spanish conquest of Guatemala, the war of Mexico's west, and the Chichimeca War in northern Mexico expanded Spanish control over territory and indigenous populations. But not until the Spanish conquest of Peru was the conquest of the Aztecs matched in scope by the victory over the Inca empire in 1532.\n\nThe Spanish conquest of the Aztec empire was led by Hernán Cortés. The victory over the Aztecs was relatively quick, from 1519 to 1521, and aided by his Tlaxcala and other allies from indigenous city-states or altepetl. These polities allied against the Aztec empire, to which they paid tribute following conquest or threat of conquest, leaving the city-states' political hierarchy and social structure in place.\n\nThe Spanish conquest of Yucatán was a much longer campaign, from 1551 to 1697, against the Maya peoples in the Yucatán Peninsula of present-day Mexico and northern Central America. Hernán Cortés' landing ashore at present day Veracruz and founding the Spanish city there on April 22, 1519 marked the beginning of 300 years of Spanish hegemony over the region. The assertion of royal control over the Kingdom of New Spain and the initial Spanish conquerors took over a decade, with importance of the region meriting the creation of the Viceroyalty of New Spain. Established by Charles V in 1535, the first viceroy was Don Antonio de Mendoza.\n\nSpain colonized and exerted control of Alta California through the Spanish missions in California until the Mexican secularization act of 1833.\n\nIn 1532 at the Battle of Cajamarca a group of Spaniards under Francisco Pizarro and their indigenous Andean Indian auxiliaries native allies ambushed and captured the Emperor Atahualpa of the Inca Empire. It was the first step in a long campaign that took decades of fighting to subdue the mightiest empire in the Americas. In the following years Spain extended its rule over the Empire of the Inca civilization.\n\nThe Spanish took advantage of a recent civil war between the factions of the two brothers Emperor Atahualpa and Huáscar, and the enmity of indigenous nations the Incas had subjugated, such as the Huancas, Chachapoyas, and Cañaris. In the following years the conquistadors and indigenous allies extended control over Greater Andes Region. The Viceroyalty of Perú was established in 1542. The last Inca stronghold was conquered by the Spanish in 1572.\n\nEuropean explorers arrived in Río de la Plata in 1516. Their first Spanish settlement in this zone was the Fort of Sancti Spiritu established in 1527 next to the Paraná River. Buenos Aires, a permanent colony, was established in 1536 and in 1537 Asunción was established in the area that is now Paraguay. Buenos Aires suffered attacks by the indigenous peoples that forced the settlers away, and in 1541 the site was abandoned. A second (and permanent) settlement was established in 1580 by Juan de Garay, who arrived by sailing down the Paraná River from Asunción (now the capital of Paraguay). He dubbed the settlement \"Santísima Trinidad\" and its port became \"Puerto de Santa María de los Buenos Aires.\" The city came to be the head of the Governorate of the Río de la Plata and in 1776 elevated to be the capital of the new Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata.\n\nBetween 1537 and 1543, six Spanish expeditions entered highland Colombia, conquered the Muisca Confederation, and set up the New Kingdom of Granada (). Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada was the leading conquistador with his brother Hernán second in command. It was governed by the president of the Audiencia of Bogotá, and comprised an area corresponding mainly to modern-day Colombia and parts of Venezuela. The conquistadors originally organized it as a captaincy general within the Viceroyalty of Peru. The crown established the \"audiencia\" in 1549. Ultimately, the kingdom became part of the Viceroyalty of New Granada first in 1717 and permanently in 1739. After several attempts to set up independent states in the 1810s, the kingdom and the viceroyalty ceased to exist altogether in 1819 with the establishment of Gran Colombia.\n\nSpain's administration of its colonies in the Americas was divided into the Viceroyalty of New Spain 1535 (capital, Mexico City), and the Viceroyalty of Peru 1542 (capital, Lima). In the 18th century the additional Viceroyalty of New Granada 1717 (capital, Bogotá), and Viceroyalty of Rio de la Plata 1776 (capital, Buenos Aires) were established from portions of the Viceroyalty of Peru. The change diminished the political and economic power of the viceroyalty and opened formal connections between the mining district of Upper Peru and the port of Buenos Aires.\n\nThe system of crown rule evolved from the era of the Catholic Monarchs, which established the Council of the Indies, to the establishment of viceroyalties in Mexico and Peru following their conquests in the Hapsburg era, and then into an Intendant system in the eighteenth century as part of the Bourbon Reforms. The reform was aimed at increasing crown control over its colonies, raising more revenue, and promoting greater efficiency.\n\n\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Peninsular War in Europe between France and Spain, assemblies called \"juntas\" were established to rule in the name of Ferdinand VII of Spain.\nThe Libertadores (Spanish and Portuguese for \"Liberators\") were the principal leaders of the Spanish American wars of independence. They were predominantly \"criollos\" (Americas-born people of European ancestry, mostly Spanish or Portuguese), bourgeois and influenced by liberalism and in some cases with military training in the mother country.\n\nIn 1809 the first declarations of independence from Spanish rule occurred in the Viceroyalty of New Granada. The first two were in present-day Bolivia at Sucre (May 25), and La Paz (July 16); and the third in present-day Ecuador at Quito (August 10). In 1810 Mexico declared independence, with the Mexican War of Independence following for over a decade. In 1821 Treaty of Córdoba established Mexican independence from Spain and concluded the War. The Plan of Iguala was part of the peace treaty to establish a constitutional foundation for an independent Mexico.\n\nThese began a movement for colonial independence that spread to Spain's other colonies in the Americas. The ideas from the French and the American Revolution influenced the efforts. All of the colonies, except Cuba and Puerto Rico, attained independence by the 1820s. The British Empire offered support, wanting to end the Spanish monopoly on trade with its colonies in the Americas.\n\nIn 1898, the United States achieved victory in the Spanish–American War with Spain, ending the Spanish colonial era. Spanish possession and rule of its remaining colonies in the Americas ended in that year with its sovereignty transferred to the United States. The United States took occupation of Cuba, the Philippines, and Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico continues to be a possession of the United States, now officially continues as a self-governing unincorporated territory.\n\nIt has been estimated that over 1.86 million Spaniards emigrated to Latin America in the period between 1492 and 1824, with millions more continuing to immigrate following independence.\n\nIn Hispaniola, the indigenous Taíno pre-contact population before the arrival of Columbus of several hundred thousand had declined to sixty thousand by 1509. Although population estimates vary, Dominican friar Bartolomé de las Casas, the \"Defender of the Indians\" estimated there were 6 million (6,000,000) Taíno and Arawak in the Caribbean at the time of Columbus's arrival in 1492.\n\nThe population of the Native American population in Mexico declined by an estimated 90% (reduced to 1–2.5 million people) by the early 17th century. In Peru the indigenous Amerindian pre-contact population of around 6.5 million declined to 1 million by the early 17th century. The overwhelming cause of the decline in both Mexico and Peru was infectious diseases, although the brutality of the Encomienda also played a significant part in the population decline.\n\nOf the history of the indigenous population of California, Sherburne F. Cook (1896–1974) was the most painstakingly careful researcher. From decades of research he made estimates for the pre-contact population and the history of demographic decline during the Spanish and post-Spanish periods. According to Cook, the indigenous Californian population at first contact, in 1769, was about 310,000 and had dropped to 25,000 by 1910. The vast majority of the decline happened after the Spanish period, during the Mexican and US periods of Californian history (1821–1910), with the most dramatic collapse (200,000 to 25,000) occurring in the US period (1846–1910).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53522463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53522463", "title": "Stolpersteine in Prague-Libeň", "text": "Stolpersteine in Prague-Libeň\n\nThe Stolpersteine in Prague-Libeň lists the Stolpersteine in the Cadastral area and district Libeň () of Prague. The district has been split off. Since 2002 it belongs mainly to Praha 8, but parts of it are now in Praha 7 and Praha 9. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.\n\nGenerally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: \"Kameny zmizelých\".\n\nAccording to the website of Gunter Demnig the Stolpersteine of Prague were posed on 8 October 2008, 7 November 2009, 12 June 2010, 13 to 15 July 2011 and on 17 July 2013 by the artist himself. A further collocation occurred on 28 October 2012, but is not mentioned on Demnig's page. The Stolpersteine of Prague-Libeň were posed before 6 October 2011.\n\nThe Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the \"Česká unie židovské mládeže\" (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9450549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9450549", "title": "Survey of Palestine", "text": "Survey of Palestine\n\nThe Survey of Palestine was a three volume survey of Mandatory Palestine prepared between December 1945 and March 1946, as evidence for the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry.\n"}
{"id": "40937088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40937088", "title": "The Exploration Museum", "text": "The Exploration Museum\n\nThe Exploration Museum ( is dedicated to the history of human exploration, from the early explorers to the exploration of space. The museum is located in the center of Húsavík in North Iceland, from the Arctic Circle. The museum was founded in 2011 and formally opened in 2014 by the President of Iceland.\n\nThe main exhibition room features photographs and artifacts from the Apollo Astronaut Training near Húsavík in 1965 and 1967. The second exhibition room features the history of Viking Exploration. Upstairs is dedicated to the exploration of the polar regions and the races to the north and south poles. The basement details expeditions which travelled underground and beneath the sea.\n\nThe Exploration Museum opened its first exhibition in May 2011, detailing the Apollo geology training in Iceland in 1965 and 1967. The exhibition was opened 50 years after US president John F. Kennedy first announced the goal of landing a man on the Moon by the end of 1969. The geology field exercises were intended to develop the astronauts observational skills in recognizing basic geologic structures. Over 50 photographs from the field training are in the museums collection. In the words of Phinney, \"Iceland was probably the most Moon-like of all the field areas that were visited.\" \n\nIn 2015, on the 50th anniversary of the first Apollo geology field trip to Iceland, the museum organized a return trip to the training area with three Apollo astronauts, Walter Cunningham of Apollo 7, Rusty Schweikart of Apollo 9, and Harrison Schmitt of Apollo 17. On the same occasion, Neil Armstrong's grandchildren unveiled a monument outside the museum, honoring the astronauts that trained in Iceland.\n\nThe Viking Explorers exhibition details the history of Viking exploration and settlement. Among the items on display are portraits of some of the most known Viking explorers, including Leif Ericson, Erik the Red, Guðríður Þorbjarnardóttir and Garðar Svavarsson.\n\nThe first expedition to reach the geographic South Pole was led by the Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen. He and four others arrived at the pole in December 1911, five weeks ahead of a British party led by Robert Falcon Scott as part of the Terra Nova Expedition. Photographs from the two expedition and replicas of equipment used by the explorers are among the items on display. Amundsen and his team returned safely to their base. Scott and his four companions died on their return journey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38359281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38359281", "title": "The Outer Space Connection", "text": "The Outer Space Connection\n\nThe Outer Space Connection is a 1975 documentary film produced by Alan Landsburg, directed by Fred Warshofsky and narrated by Rod Serling. This documentary was the last in a trilogy of ancient astronaut documentaries produced by Landsburg. This film was one of the last projects that Rod Serling worked on prior to his death in 1975.\n\nThis documentary explores the controversial theory that extraterrestrials explored the Earth in the distant past. These extraterrestrials had a profound effect on the creation of human life and the founding of civilization, after which they left mankind to evolve on its own with a promise they would return at a future date.\n\nLandsburg created two other television documentaries dealing with the ancient astronaut subject. \"In Search of Ancient Astronauts\" and \"In Search of Ancient Mysteries\" both produced in 1973. All three projects were narrated by Rod Serling. \"The Outer Space Connection\" was based on a book by the same name, also written by Landsburg and published by Bantam Books. Parts of the film were shot in Park City, Utah. The film was released by Sunn Classic Pictures who also released the documentary film, \"Chariots of the Gods\", in 1970. This film was released on VHS during the 1980s and is also found on many video sharing sites on the internet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69035", "title": "Thoth", "text": "Thoth\n\nThoth (; from \"\", borrowed from , the reflex of \"[He] is like the Ibis\") is one of the ancient Egyptian deities. In art, he was often depicted as a man with the head of an ibis or a baboon, animals sacred to him. His feminine counterpart was Seshat, and his wife was Ma'at.\n\nThoth's chief temple was located in the city of , Egyptological pronunciation: \"Khemenu\", \"Shmun\", which was known as \"Hermoû pólis\" \"The City of Hermes\", or in Latin as \"Hermopolis Magna\", during the Hellenistic period through the interpretatio graeca that Thoth was Hermes. Later known \"el-Ashmunein\" in Egyptian Arabic, it was partially destroyed in 1826.\n\nIn Hermopolis, Thoth led \"the Ogdoad\", a pantheon of eight principal deities, and his spouse was Nehmetawy. He also had numerous shrines within the cities of Abydos, Hesert, Urit, Per-Ab, Rekhui, Ta-ur, Sep, Hat, Pselket, Talmsis, Antcha-Mutet, Bah, Amen-heri-ab, and Ta-kens.\n\nThoth played many vital and prominent roles in Egyptian mythology, such as maintaining the universe, and being one of the two deities (the other being Maat) who stood on either side of Ra's solar barge. In the later history of ancient Egypt, Thoth became heavily associated with the arbitration of godly disputes, the arts of magic, the system of writing, the development of science, and the judgment of the dead.\n\nThe Egyptian pronunciation of \"ḏḥwty\" is not fully known, but may be reconstructed as *\"ḏiḥautī,\" perhaps pronounced * or *. This reconstruction is based on the Ancient Greek borrowing ' ( ) or ' and the fact that the name was transliterated into Sahidic Coptic variously as \"Thoout\", \"Thōth\", \"Thoot\", \"Thaut\", as well as Bohairic Coptic \"Thōout\". These spellings reflect known sound changes from earlier Egyptian such as the loss of \"ḏ\" palatalization and merger of \"ḥ\" with \"h\" i.e. initial \"ḏḥ > th > tʰ.\" The loss of pre-Coptic final \"y/j\" is also common. Following Egyptological convention, which eschews vowel reconstruction, the consonant skeleton \"ḏḥwty\" would be rendered \"Djehuti\" and the god is sometimes found under this name. However, the Greek form \"Thoth\" is more common.\n\nAccording to Theodor Hopfner, Thoth's Egyptian name written as \"ḏḥwty\" originated from \"ḏḥw\", claimed to be the oldest known name for the ibis, normally written as \"hbj\". The addition of \"-ty\" denotes that he possessed the attributes of the ibis. Hence Thoth's name would mean \"He who is like the ibis\", according to this interpretation.\n\nOther forms of the name \"ḏḥwty\" using older transcriptions include \"Jehuti, Jehuty, Tahuti, Tehuti, Zehuti, Techu,\" or \"Tetu\". Multiple titles for Thoth, similar to the pharaonic titulary, are also known, including \"A\", \"Sheps\", \"Lord of Khemennu\", \"Asten\", \"Khenti\", \"Mehi\", \"Hab\", and \"A'an\".\n\nIn addition, Thoth was also known by specific aspects of himself, for instance the moon god Iah-Djehuty (\"j3ḥ-ḏḥw.ty)\", representing the Moon for the entire month.\nThe Greeks related Thoth to their god Hermes due to his similar attributes and functions.\nOne of Thoth's titles, \"Thrice great\" (see Titles) was translated to the Greek (\"\"), making Hermes Trismegistus.\n\nThoth has been depicted in many ways depending on the era and on the aspect the artist wished to convey. Usually, he is depicted in his human form with the head of an ibis. In this form, he can be represented as the reckoner of times and seasons by a headdress of the lunar disk sitting on top of a crescent moon resting on his head. When depicted as a form of Shu or Ankher, he was depicted to be wearing the respective god's headdress. Sometimes he was also seen in art to be wearing the Atef crown or the United Crowns of Upper and Lower Egypt. When not depicted in this common form, he sometimes takes the form of the ibis directly.\n\nHe also appears as a dog-faced baboon or a man with the head of a baboon when he is A'an, the god of equilibrium. In the form of A'ah-Djehuty he took a more human-looking form. These forms are all symbolic and are metaphors for Thoth's attributes. The Egyptians did not believe these gods actually looked like humans with animal heads. For example, Ma'at is often depicted with an ostrich feather, \"the feather of truth,\" on her head, or with a feather for a head.\n\nThoth's roles in Egyptian mythology were many. He served as scribe of the gods, credited with the invention of writing and Egyptian hieroglyphs. In the underworld, Duat, he appeared as an ape, Aani, the god of equilibrium, who reported when the scales weighing the deceased's heart against the feather, representing the principle of Maat, was exactly even.\n\nThe ancient Egyptians regarded Thoth as One, self-begotten, and self-produced. He was the master of both physical and moral (i.e. divine) law, making proper use of Ma'at. He is credited with making the calculations for the establishment of the heavens, stars, Earth, and everything in them. He is said to direct the motions of the heavenly bodies. Without his words, the Egyptians believed, the gods would not exist. His power was unlimited in the Underworld and rivalled that of Ra and Osiris.\n\nThe Egyptians credited him as the author of all works of science, religion, philosophy, and magic. The Greeks further declared him the inventor of astronomy, astrology, the science of numbers, mathematics, geometry, surveying, medicine, botany, theology, civilized government, the alphabet, reading, writing, and oratory. They further claimed he was the true author of every work of every branch of knowledge, human and divine.\n\nThoth has played a prominent role in many of the Egyptian myths. In the Osiris myth, being of great aid to Isis. After Isis gathered together the pieces of Osiris's dismembered body, he gave her the words to resurrect him so she could be impregnated and bring forth Horus. After a battle between Horus and Set in which the latter plucked out Horus' eye, Thoth's counsel provided him the wisdom he needed to recover it.\n\nThis mythology also credits him with the creation of the 365-day calendar. Originally, according to the myth, the year was only 360 days long and Nut was sterile during these days, unable to bear children. Thoth gambled with the Moon for 1/72nd of its light (360/72 = 5), or 5 days, and won. During these 5 days, Nut and Geb gave birth to Osiris, Set, Isis, and Nephthys.\n\nThoth was originally a moon god. The moon not only provides light at night, allowing time to still be measured without the sun, but its phases and prominence gave it a significant importance in early astrology/astronomy. The cycles of the moon also organized much of Egyptian society's rituals and events, both civil and religious. Consequently, Thoth gradually became seen as a god of wisdom, magic, and the measurement and regulation of events and of time. He was thus said to be the secretary and counselor of the sun god Ra, and with Ma'at (truth/order) stood next to Ra on the nightly voyage across the sky.\n\nThoth became credited by the ancient Egyptians as the inventor of writing (hieroglyphs), and was also considered to have been the scribe of the underworld. For this reason Thoth was universally worshipped by ancient Egyptian scribes. Many scribes had a painting or a picture of Thoth in their \"office\". Likewise, one of the symbols for scribes was that of the ibis.\n\nIn art, Thoth was usually depicted with the head of an ibis, possibly because the Egyptians saw curve of the ibis' beak as a symbol of the crescent moon. Sometimes, he was depicted as a baboon holding up a crescent moon, as the baboon was seen as a nocturnal and intelligent creature. The association with baboons led to him occasionally being said to have as a consort Astennu, one of the (male) baboons at the place of judgment in the underworld. On other occasions, Astennu was said to be Thoth himself.\n\nDuring the late period of Egyptian history, a cult of Thoth gained prominence due to its main centre, Khmun (Hermopolis Magna), also becoming the capital. Millions of dead ibis were mummified and buried in his honour.\n\nThoth was inserted in many tales as the wise counselor and persuader, and his association with learning and measurement led him to be connected with Seshat, the earlier deification of wisdom, who was said to be his daughter, or variably his wife. Thoth's qualities also led to him being identified by the Greeks with their closest matching god Hermes, with whom Thoth was eventually combined as Hermes Trismegistus, also leading to the Greeks' naming Thoth's cult centre as Hermopolis, meaning \"city of Hermes\".\n\nIt is also considered that Thoth was the scribe of the gods rather than a messenger. Anpu (or Hermanubis) was viewed as the messenger of the gods, as he travelled in and out of the Underworld and presented himself to the gods and to humans. It is more widely accepted that Thoth was a record keeper, not a divine messenger. In the Papyrus of Ani copy of the Egyptian Book of the Dead the scribe proclaims \"I am thy writing palette, O Thoth, and I have brought unto thee thine ink-jar. I am not of those who work iniquity in their secret places; let not evil happen unto me.\" Chapter XXXb (Budge) of the Book of the Dead is by the oldest tradition said to be the work of Thoth himself.\n\nThere was also an Egyptian pharaoh of the Sixteenth dynasty named Djehuty (Thoth) after him, and who reigned for three years.\n\nArtapanus of Alexandria, an Egyptian Jew who lived in the third or second century BC, euhemerized Thoth-Hermes as a historical human being and claimed he was the same person as Moses, based primarily on their shared roles as authors of texts and creators of laws. Artapanus's biography of Moses conflates traditions about Moses and Thoth and invents many details. Many later authors, from late antiquity to the Renaissance, either identified Hermes Trismegistus with Moses or regarded them as contemporaries who expounded similar beliefs.\n\nThoth has been seen as a god of wisdom and has been used in modern literature, especially since the early 20th century when ancient Egyptian ideas were quite popular.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7472222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7472222", "title": "Timeline of Ayyavazhi history", "text": "Timeline of Ayyavazhi history\n\nThe purpose of this chronology is to give a detailed account of Ayyavazhi from the beginning of the incarnational events of Vaikundar to the present time. Question marks on dates indicate approximate dates. A star (*) indicates the mentioning of that particular date in Akilam or Arul Nool. All dates but a few are found in the Tamil calendar and so doesn't coincide exactly with the months of the Gregorian calendar. The dates may span over any halves of the two consecutive months (Gregorian).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3481777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3481777", "title": "Timeline of Northumbria and Northumberland", "text": "Timeline of Northumbria and Northumberland\n\nThis timeline summarises significant events in the history of Northumbria and Northumberland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57484716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57484716", "title": "Timeline of the Heart Radio Network", "text": "Timeline of the Heart Radio Network\n\nA timeline of notable events relating to the Heart, a 22-strong network of adult contemporary commercial radio stations operated by Global.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35817338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35817338", "title": "Timeline of the University of Santo Tomas", "text": "Timeline of the University of Santo Tomas\n\nThis is a timeline of the history of the Pontifical and Royal University of Santo Tomas, the oldest university in Asia, comprising important events of the history of the University and of the development of Philippine higher education in general. To read about the background to these events, see History of the University of Santo Tomas. See also the history of the Rector Magnificus of the University of Santo Tomas, and the Santo Tomas Internment Camp\n\n"}
{"id": "28659900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28659900", "title": "Tom Behan", "text": "Tom Behan\n\nTom Behan (22 June 1957 – 30 August 2010) was an academic and writer on Italian history, politics and culture and an active member of the British Socialist Workers Party for over 30 years. He was a Senior Lecturer in Italian at the University of Kent at Canterbury, author of the first political biography of Europe's leading radical playwright and winner of the 1997 Nobel Prize for Literature Dario Fo, and an authority on Italian organised crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "996683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996683", "title": "Valerius Antias", "text": "Valerius Antias\n\nValerius Antias (1st century BC) was an ancient Roman annalist whom Livy mentions as a source. No complete works of his survive but from the sixty-five fragments said to be his in the works of other authors it has been deduced that he wrote a chronicle of ancient Rome in at least seventy-five books. The latest dateable event in the fragments is mention of the heirs of the orator, Lucius Licinius Crassus, who died in 91 BC. Of the seventy references to Antias in classical (Greek and Latin) literature sixty-one mention him as an authority on Roman legendary history.\n\nAntias' family were the Valerii Antiates, a branch of the Valeria gens residing at least from early republican times in the vicinity of \"Antium\" (modern towns of Anzio and Nettuno). He may have been descended from Lucius Valerius Antias.\n\nNot much is known about the life of Valerius Antias. He was probably a younger contemporary of Quintus Claudius Quadrigarius and lived in the times of Sulla although some scholars believe that he was a contemporary of Julius Caesar and wrote his work after 50 BC, because he seems to have been unknown to Cicero (who especially does not mention him in his enumeration of famous historians (\"de legibus\" 1.2.3-7)). He was the most important of the so-called “younger annalists”.\n\nThe nearly completely lost work of Antias – cited as \"annales\" or as \"historiae\" – began its account of the Roman history with the foundation of Rome and extended at least to the year 91 BC. The second book told about the legendary Roman king Numa Pompilius, the twenty-second book about the capitulation of Gaius Hostilius Mancinus in 136 BC (this event Livy only reports in book 55 of his history). Therefore, the earlier times were reported much shorter than the contemporary history of the author.\n\nThe work of Antias was not very reliable. Livy criticizes his exaggerated numbers of killed and captured enemies in the Roman wars. Sometimes he seems to have invented even battles. But sometimes he also delivered correct values, which fact can be concluded from a comparison with some values given by Polybius.\n\nAntias’ account of each year included the allocation of troops and provinces, important omen, battles, foundation of new colonies etc. At the end of the description of each year he reported about plays, temple inaugurations, and other news, in particular about events in the city of Rome. Under the influence of Hellenistic historiography Antias related his stories very long-winded and filled with sensationalism to entertain his readers. He embroidered the mostly short accounts of older historians with dramatic details and also recounted legends and miracles. He falsified the report about the trials of the Scipio brothers (compare Livy ) and seems to have invented high offices and deeds of members of his house, the gens Valeria, who lived in the early Roman republic because there were no reliable sources about these early times, which could have disproved his assertions. Antias gave a rationalistic account about the discovery of the coffins with the books of king Numa, because he had the coffins uncovered by rain and not by excavation like in the older tradition.\n\nThe style of Antias was simple, but not archaic, and Marcus Cornelius Fronto (\"epistel ad Verus\" 1, 1, p. 134, 2 ed. Van den Hout) judged his language and style to be unattractive (\"invenuste\"). Therefore, he was rarely cited literally by later grammarians.\n\nIn one long-standing view of Antias' influence on Livy, the latter relied mainly on the former in Books 1-10 of \"Ab Urbe Condita Libri\", the legendary history of Rome. To elucidate this possible influence, A.A. Howard compared each of Antias' fragments with the equivalent story in Livy. He deduced that there is no evidence of such influence in the first ten books. Of twenty fragments falling within the period Livy does not use any, either omitting the information, or explicitly disagreeing with it. Howard says:\"The argument that Livy made free use of Antias and mentioned him only in case of disagreement is absolutely without foundation, for we have seen fourteen specific instances in which, although Livy does not mention him, he nevertheless disagrees with his statements as known to us from other sources, or absolutely disregards them...\"\nFor example, in Fragment 1 Acca Larentia willed her property to Romulus. Livy does not mention it. Fragment 3 mentions that exactly 527 Sabine Women were kidnapped. Livy says the number is greater than 30, and so on. For the entire period covered by Livy, 33 fragments of Antias come from Livy. He disagrees with six of these, criticizes eleven more, quotes Antias in disagreement on ten, and agrees with, but later disproves, two. Howard concludes disparagingly that\"It is on such evidence as this that we are asked to believe that Antias was the source of considerable portions of Livy's history and that Livy followed blindly, at least in the earlier part of his work. \"\n\n"}
{"id": "30089324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30089324", "title": "William Anderson (Scottish writer)", "text": "William Anderson (Scottish writer)\n\nWilliam Anderson (1805–1866) was a Scottish miscellaneous writer.\n\nAnderson was born in Edinburgh 10 December 1805. His father was supervisor of excise at Oban, and his mother the daughter of John Williams, author of the ‘Natural History of the Mineral Kingdom.’ He was thus a younger brother of John Anderson (genealogist, 1789-1832), the historian of the house of Hamilton. After receiving a good education in Edinburgh he became clerk to a Leith merchant, but subsequently entered a lawyer's office in Edinburgh. At an early period he began to contribute to the newspapers, and in 1830 published a volume of verse, entitled ‘Poetical Aspirations,’ which reached a second edition in 1833. This was followed by a volume of prose and verse, entitled ‘Odd Sketches.’ After a short residence in London in 1831 he obtained a situation on the ‘Aberdeen Journal.’\n\nIn 1836 he returned to London, where he formed a rather extensive literary connection, and in 1839 brought out the ‘Gift of all Nations,’ an annual which numbered among its contributors Thomas Campbell, Sheridan Knowles, the Countess of Blessington, and Miss Pardoe. In the same year he also published ‘Landscape Lyrics,’ which reached a second edition in 1854. In 1842 he became editor of the ‘Western Watchman,’ a weekly newspaper published at Ayr; in 1844 he was chosen subeditor of the ‘Edinburgh Witness,’ which, although the articles of Hugh Miller had secured it a wide circulation, had hitherto been subedited in a very perfunctory manner; and in 1845 he became the chief subeditor of the ‘Glasgow Daily Mail,’ the first daily newspaper published in Scotland.\n\nOn account of the serious effects on his health of severe night labour, he was two years afterwards compelled for a time to abandon literary work, and he never formed any subsequent connection with a newspaper. With the exception of a volume of ‘Poems’ published in 1845, and the ‘Young Voyager,’ 1855, a poem descriptive of the search after Sir John Franklin, and intended for juvenile readers, the remaining works of Anderson are of the nature chiefly of popular compilations. They include an edition of the ‘Works of Lord Byron,’ with a life and notes, 1850; the ‘Poems and Songs of R. Gilfillan,’ with a memoir, 1851; and a ‘Treasury’ series, embracing the ‘Treasury of Discovery,’ 1853; of the ‘Animal World,’ 1854; of ‘Manners,’ 1855; of ‘History,’ 1856; and of ‘Nature,’ 1857. Of a somewhat higher character than these compilations are the ‘Scottish Nation,’ 1859–63, an expansion of his ‘Popular Scottish Biography’ published in 1842; and ‘Genealogy and Surnames,’ 1865. The ‘Scottish Nation,’ though diffuse and ill arranged, displays great industry and a minute acquaintance with Scottish family history; while ‘Genealogy and Surnames,’ amid much that is commonplace, contains some curious information not easily accessible elsewhere.\n\nHe died suddenly at London 2 August 1866.\n"}
{"id": "57575603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57575603", "title": "William B. Pickett", "text": "William B. Pickett\n\nWilliam Beatty Pickett (born March 12, 1940) is an American historian and professor emeritus at Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in Terre Haute, Indiana. He is known as an authority on President Dwight D. Eisenhower and Indiana Sen. Homer E. Capehart, and is the author of several well-regarded books on U.S. history including \"Dwight David Eisenhower and American Power\" and \"Eisenhower Decides To Run: Presidential Politics and Cold War Strategy\".\n\nPickett was born in Crawfordsville, Indiana. He earned his bachelor's degree at Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota in 1962, and both a master's degree (in 1968) and doctorate (in 1974) at Indiana University. He served as a lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve from 1962-1966.\n\nAfter postgraduate work at Indiana University in the late 1960s, Pickett was a professor of history at Rose-Hulman for 35 years. He was a Fulbright Scholar at Nanzan University in Nagoya, Japan in 1989-90, lecturing on American history, and taught American history on U.S. military bases in Korea as a visiting professor for the University of Maryland. He was an educational consultant to the American University of Kyrgyzstan (now called American University of Central Asia) in 2002. In 1992-93, he served as president of the Indiana Association of Historians. In 2006, he co-founded the Web History Center, a hub for archiving and preserving early Internet history, with branches in Indiana at Rose-Hulman and at California's Computer History Museum. Two of his lectures about Eisenhower were featured on C-SPAN's \"Book TV\" series in 2000 and 2002. Since 2016, he has been a member of the historical advisory panel for the Eisenhower Memorial in Washington, D.C. Pickett retired from teaching in 2007 but continues to write.\n\nOver the course of his career, Pickett produced a number of books, journal articles, reviews, and oral histories.\nPickett wrote his doctoral thesis on Indiana Sen. Homer Capehart, and his 1990 book \"Homer E. Capehart: A Senator's Life\" was the first scholarly biography of the politician. \"Homer E. Capehart\" won an Award of Merit from the Ohio Museums Association in 1990.\nPickett's work on Eisenhower included two full-length books. Reviewer Lawrence S. Conner called 1995's \"Dwight David Eisenhower and American Power\" a \"concise and readable\" work that helped to revise previous historians' \"harsh assessments of Eisenhower.\" Writing in Presidential Studies Quarterly, Herbert Parmet called the book a \"gracefully written,\" more contemporary view of Eisenhower as a politician who \"understood and moved with the rhythms of history.\" Pickett's 2000 book \"Eisenhower Decides to Run\" was one of the first scholarly looks at the 1952 presidential campaign, and focused particularly on Eisenhower's political reputation. Writing for Michigan State University's H-Net forum, Steven Wagner called the book \"required reading for Eisenhower specialists\" that helped to overturn the older consensus that Eisenhower was only a passive player in his own political career, and made the case that long-simmering political ambitions led to his consciously seeking the presidency in order to block the ambitions of Ohio Senator Robert A. Taft. Reviewer Thomas R. Maddux wrote that Pickett's book challenged the \"standard view advanced by Stephen Ambrose and others\" that Eisenhower was a reluctant candidate, positing instead that Eisenhower was cautious after witnessing the controversial political rise of his military rival Douglas MacArthur, and was a more skilled behind-the-scenes leader than generally acknowledged.\n\nPickett also conducted several collections of oral interviews on Capehart and the histories of Terre Haute and surrounding Vigo County and Rose-Hulman.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33153769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33153769", "title": "World History Association", "text": "World History Association\n\nThe World History Association (WHA) is an academic association that promotes the study of world history through the encouragement of research, teaching, and publication. It was founded in 1982.\n\nThe WHA provides many opportunities for connecting world historians with one another. It publishes the \"Journal of World History\" and \"World History Bulletin\", and has awarded World History Association Book Prize since 1999.\n\n\n"}
