{"id": "38762854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38762854", "title": "2008 SiPort murders", "text": "2008 SiPort murders\n\nOn November 14, 2008, three people were fatally shot at the office of SiPort, a start-up company in Santa Clara, California in Silicon Valley. Jing Hua Wu was arrested and convicted.\n\nSiPort CEO Sid Agrawal, human resources manager Marilyn Lewis, and vice president of operations Brian Pugh were all shot fatally in the head. It was one of the deadliest workplace killings in Silicon Valley history.\n\nWu (born 1961-62) was born in China, and was a former employee of SiPort. He was distraught over losing his job at the company.\n\nJing Hua Wu was charged with three counts of first-degree murder and special circumstances of using a firearm, and was represented by high-profile defense attorney Tony Serra. On March 8, 2013, Wu was found guilty of all charges. On August 2, 2013, Wu was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole, and an additional 75 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "47318561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47318561", "title": "Abortion in Qatar", "text": "Abortion in Qatar\n\nAbortion in Qatar is illegal in some circumstances. Under Qatar's penal code, a woman who induces her abortion or who consents to an abortion faces up to five years' imprisonment. Individuals who perform an unauthorized abortion on a woman may face up to five years' imprisonment if she consents, and up to ten years if it is performed without her consent.\n\nHistorically, abortion was allowed in Qatari society only if the pregnancy was deemed to endanger the mother's life. Qatar's penal code ratified this convention in 1971 by legalizing abortion in cases where the mother's life would be saved. Furthermore, a law formalized in 1983 states that abortions may be legally performed on pregnancies of less than four months duration if the pregnancy were to cause serious harm to the mother's health if continued, or if there was evidence that the child would be born with untreatable mental or physical deficiencies and both parents consented to the abortion. \n\nAbortions must first be recommended by a medical commission comprising three specialists before it can be performed. By law, abortions must be performed in a government hospital.\n\nMost abortions carried out by residents of Qatar are performed in the country itself rather than abroad. Abortions in Qatar are sometimes performed by women who are pregnant out of wedlock as a direct result of the illegality of giving birth to a child out of wedlock.\n"}
{"id": "2771970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2771970", "title": "Audiometrist", "text": "Audiometrist\n\nAn Audiometrist (from Latin , \"to hear\"; and from Italian \"-metria\", “to measure” ) or Audiometric Officer, is a health-care professional technician who has received special training in the use of Pure tone audiometry equipment. An audiometrist conducts hearing tests, or \"audiometric screening\", with an Audiometer to establish hearing levels. The results are represented by an audiogram, and are usually interpreted by an audiologist, or a registered Medical Officer, unless the audiometrist is also an audiologist, with the aim of diagnosing hearing loss.\n\nThere are currently some misconceptions regarding the definition of Audiometrist and Audiologist, which vary from country to country. These misconceptions continue to grow, in Australia in particular, which leads to the need for greater communication, less segregation of each other's role within the community and a broader understanding of each other's qualifications.\n\nThe word \"Audiometrist\" is derived from the word Audiometry, as distinct from Audiology. However, the title audiometrist is often used interchangeably with the role of audiologists, thereby making a precise definition of the word more difficult. Audiologists can therefore refer to themselves as audiometrists, although they still perform the tasks of audiologists. The origin of this cross-attribution is unclear, but may stem from the fact that many audiometrists also receive subsequent training in audiology, thereby making them both audiometrists and audiologists. Additionally, preferences for definitions of audiometrists are more varied worldwide, mainly because Audiometry education and licensing requirements vary from country to country, and the use or mis-use of the word in this fashion continues worldwide. A further role confusion arises because many audiometrists are involved directly in the hearing aid industry in an assistive capacity when they get in-house training for hearing aid audiometry, while others apply audiometry purely to Occupational Health. Since audiologists are more qualified, they can do the work of audiometrists, but not the other way round. This may often lead to the assumption that audiometrists are audiologists.\n\nIn the UK and Ireland Audiometrists generally differ from Audiologists in that they do not require or hold an Academic Degree or Doctorate in Audiology. Audiometrists are certified under the British and Irish Society of Hearing Aid Audiologists, the Health and Safety Executive (UK and Ireland) and the Health and Safety Authority (Ireland), and the time period of their training is generally shorter than audiologists. Unlike Audiologists, they are not licensed to treat hearing loss with the use of hearing aids.\n\nAs in the UK and Ireland, in Australia and New Zealand Audiometrists can receive certified training in audiometric screening. However, unlike the UK and Ireland, Audiometrists in Australia can prescribe hearing aids to treat a hearing loss if they complete the appropriate training.\n\nAn Audiometrist can choose to complete either a Certificate IV in Audiometric Assessment (available only as part of an apprenticeship) or a Diploma of Hearing Device Prescription and Evaluation. Only Audiometrists who complete the Diploma, and the further training below, are qualified to prescribe and fit hearing aids.\n\nUpon graduation of their Diploma, Audiometrists may choose to complete two years supervised clinical experience where they are closely supervised and monitored in a wide variety of techniques. These range from paediatric assessment of clients aged from 3 years to assessment of elderly clients and cover all aspects of screening, diagnostic and prescriptive methods. After this time they are permitted to sit a stringent theoretical and practical exam before a panel of industry experts to be declared competent to prescribe and fit hearing aids. This is a requirement for an Audiometrist to be a member of a professional body.\n\nAn Audiologist, who has completed a degree called \"Master of Audiology\", is required to complete twelve months of supervised clinical experience and be declared competent to be a member of a professional body.\n\nIn Australia, the professional bodies for Audiometrists are:\nAustralian College of Audiology (ACAud) – Audiologists and Audiometrists; and\nHearing Aid Audiometrists Society of Australia (HAASA) – Audiometrists only.\n\nAudiometrists providing services under the Australian Government Hearing Services Program must have appropriate membership of a professional body. This also applies to Audiologists.\n\nWhile an Audiometrist can provide many of the same services as an Audiologist under the Australian Government Hearing Services Program, there are some diagnostic services that can only be provided by Audiologists. Other than referral to an Audiologist or ENT for these services, an Audiometrist does not require approval or supervision by an Audiologist. This does not apply to an Audiometrist with a Certificate IV qualification, who cannot provide unsupervised services under the Australian Government Hearing Services Program.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, Audiometrists, sometimes referred to as \"Audiometric Technicians\", also receive accreditation in audiometric screening, under the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)and Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA). When audiometry is applied to industry, audiometrists are sometimes also called Occupational Hearing Conservationists. When Audiometrists become qualified as Audiologists, they are more commonly referred to as Hearing Instrument Specialists, and are licensed hearing professionals that perform diagnostic hearing evaluations, as well as prescribe and fit hearing aids. A Hearing Instrument Specialist in the US or Canada is the equivalent of a Hearing Aid Dispenser in the UK or Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "50251642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50251642", "title": "Battle with cancer", "text": "Battle with cancer\n\nBattle with cancer is a term used by the media when referring to people suffering from cancer. Those who have died are said to have \"lost their battle with cancer\", while the living are described as \"fighting cancer\". It has been argued that words such as \"battle\" and \"fight\" are inappropriate, as they suggest that cancer can be defeated if one fights hard enough.\n\nThe phrase is often used when someone dies, and may appear in obituaries. For example, a statement from Victoria Wood's publicist in April 2016 said that Wood had \"passed away, after a short but brave battle with cancer\". In December 2016, journalist A.A. Gill was described by Sky News as having died after a \"short fight with cancer\".\n\nResearch in 2014 led by Elena Semino, a professor of linguistics at Lancaster University, alongside palliative care specialists, based on 1.5 million words of discussion, led Semino to say, \"We have enough evidence to suggest that battle metaphors are sufficiently negative for enough people that they shouldn’t be imposed on anyone\". The study stated that doctors should avoid battle/fight metaphors unless patients themselves chose to use them, and obituaries should avoid them, especially the idea of \"losing\" such a battle/fight. By comparison, another common metaphor, comparing cancer to a \"journey\" was \"less likely to lead to feelings of guilt or failure\".\n\nIn her 2014 article in \"The Guardian\" titled \"Having cancer is not a fight or a battle\", the medical doctor Kate Granger, who was diagnosed with desmoplastic small-round-cell tumor (a type of sarcoma), explains how the use of military language, whilst perhaps aiming to instil a sense of positivity, can have the opposite effect.\n\nA charity has been named Cyclists Fighting Cancer and foods have been described as \"cancer-fighting\".\n\nThe concept of a \"battle with...\" is used in similar phrases such as a \"battle with depression\".\n"}
{"id": "712326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=712326", "title": "Bursitis", "text": "Bursitis\n\nBursitis is the inflammation of one or more bursae (small sacs) of synovial fluid in the body. They are lined with a synovial membrane that secretes a lubricating synovial fluid. There are more than 150 bursae in the human body. The bursae rest at the points where internal functionaries, such as muscles and tendons, slide across bone. Healthy bursae create a smooth, almost frictionless functional gliding surface making normal movement painless. When bursitis occurs, however, movement relying on the inflamed bursa becomes difficult and painful. Moreover, movement of tendons and muscles over the inflamed bursa aggravates its inflammation, perpetuating the problem. Muscle can also be stiffened.\n\nBursitis commonly affects superficial bursae. These include the subacromial, prepatellar, retrocalcaneal, and \"pes anserinus\" bursae of the shoulder, knee, heel and shin, etc. (see below). Symptoms vary from localized warmth and erythema to joint pain and stiffness, to stinging pain that surrounds the joint around the inflamed bursa. In this condition, the pain usually is worse during and after activity, and then the bursa and the surrounding joint becomes stiff the next morning.\n\nThere can be several concurrent causes. Trauma, auto-immune disorders, infection and iatrogenic (medicine-related) factors can all cause bursitis. Bursitis is commonly caused by repetitive movement and excessive pressure. Shoulders, elbows and knees are the most commonly affected. Inflammation of the bursae may also be caused by other inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma, systemic lupus erythematosus, and gout. Immune deficiencies, including HIV and diabetes, can also cause bursitis. Infrequently, scoliosis can cause bursitis of the shoulders; however, shoulder bursitis is more commonly caused by overuse of the shoulder joint and related muscles.\n\nTraumatic injury is another cause of bursitis. The inflammation irritates because the bursa no longer fits in the original small area between the bone and the functionary muscle or tendon. When the bone increases pressure upon the bursa, bursitis results. Sometimes the cause is unknown. It can also be associated with various other chronic systemic diseases.\n\nThe most common examples of this condition:\n\nIt is important to differentiate between infected and non-infected bursitis. People may have surrounding cellulitis and systemic symptoms include a fever. The bursa should be aspirated to rule out an infectious process.\n\nBursae that are not infected can be treated symptomatically with rest, ice, elevation, physiotherapy, anti-inflammatory drugs and pain medication. Since bursitis is caused by increased friction from the adjacent structures, a compression bandage is not suggested because compression would create more friction around the joint. Chronic bursitis can be amenable to bursectomy and aspiration. Bursae that are infected require further investigation and antibiotic therapy. Steroid therapy may also be considered. In cases when all conservative treatment fails, surgical therapy may be necessary. In a bursectomy the bursa is cut out either endoscopically or with open surgery. The bursa grows back in place after a couple of weeks but without any inflammatory component.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4748844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4748844", "title": "CalorieKing", "text": "CalorieKing\n\nCalorieKing is an online weight loss club and software developer with a program centred on healthy eating and exercise (\"calories in, calories out\"). The company offers products and services tailored specifically for the United States and Australian markets. As well as offering help for people who wish to lose weight, there are also programs and support for those who want to maintain their current weight, or to gain weight. The web sites' resources also include forums, and an extensive library of recipes and health and weight loss related articles contributed by company staff as well as other organisations and contributors.\n\nIn addition to its web site, the company also produces personal computer software and several popular books. Many of its products are based on the CalorieKing food database, which claims to contain over 100,000 foods in the American version and 20,000 foods in the Australian version.\n\nCalorieKing was founded as Family Health Publications in 1973 in Australia by Allan Borushek, biochemist and clinical dietitian, with the publication of the first Australian \"Calorie, Fat, & Carb Counter\". In 1988, the book was published in the United States, selling more than 10,000,000 copies. 1998 saw the launch of the company's web site, CalorieKing.com; its Australian sister-site DietClub.com.au was launched in 1997 and later rebranded as CalorieKing.com.au.\n\nIn July 2007, the company announced an alliance with the Joslin Diabetes Center to promote type 2 diabetes awareness, prevention, and management, and to build a culturally specific Latino food database.\n\n"}
{"id": "59142692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59142692", "title": "Capital and Coast District Health Board", "text": "Capital and Coast District Health Board\n\nThe Capital and Coast District Health Board (CCDHB) is a district health board with the focus on providing healthcare to Wellington City, Porirua City and the Kapiti Coast in New Zealand. The CCDHB employs about 5,800 people across the Wellington region.\n\nThe Wellington Regional Hospital located in Newtown is the largest of the CCDHB's facilities, serving the wider Wellington region and the northern South Island. Other facilities include the Wellington Children's Hospital, the Kenepuru Community Hospital in Porirua and the Kapiti Health Centre.\n"}
{"id": "44542157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44542157", "title": "Colonel Malek Medical College", "text": "Colonel Malek Medical College\n\nColonel Malek Medical College, Manikganj () is a government medical school in Bangladesh, established in 2014. It is located in Manikganj. The college is affiliated with the University of Dhaka under the faculty of Medicine. Academic activities began in 26 January 2015 with 51 students.. The commencement of the academic activities started at the Manikganj Nursing College temporarily. The permanent campus is being built in Joyra,Manikganj.\n\nIt offers 5 years of MBBS course and admits 65 students every year.\n\nThe admission process of undergraduate MBBS course for all government medical colleges in Bangladesh is conducted centrally by the Director of Medical Education under DGHS under the Ministry of Health. The test comprises a written MCQ exam, which is held simultaneously in all government medical colleges on the same day throughout the country. Candidates are selected for admission based on national merit, district quotas, freedom fighter quotas, tribal quotas etc. For foreign students, admission process is through the embassy of Bangladesh in their respective countries. The academic calendar for different years is maintained by the respective departments. The admission test consists of a written MCQ exam.\n\nColonel Malek Medical College, Manikganj is affiliated with the University of Dhaka. The students receive their MBBS degrees from the University of Dhaka after completing 5 year of study and passing the final professional MBBS examination. \nThis college is directly governed by Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council (BMDC) - an affiliation of the Ministry of Health.\n\nThe professional examinations are held under the university and results are given thereby. Internal examinations are also taken on regular intervals namely items, card completions, terms end and regular assessments.\n\nIn the year of 2014-2015, Bangladesh government approved to establish 6 new medical colleges at Manikganj, Sirajganj, Jamalpur, Patuakhali, Tangail and Rangamati with a view to improving the healthcare services throughout the country.\nThe college was formed as Manikganj Medical College. In the year of 2017, it was renamed to its current title. It was named after Colonel M.A.Malek, a former renowned Bangladeshi politician, Mayor of Dhaka City Corporation and Minister of the Ministry of Textiles and Jute, Bangladesh.\n\n"}
{"id": "92693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92693", "title": "Common cold", "text": "Common cold\n\nThe common cold, also known simply as a cold, is a viral infectious disease of the upper respiratory tract that primarily affects the nose. The throat, sinuses, and larynx may also be affected. Signs and symptoms may appear less than two days after exposure to the virus. These may include coughing, sore throat, runny nose, sneezing, headache, and fever. People usually recover in seven to ten days, but some symptoms may last up to three weeks. Occasionally those with other health problems may develop pneumonia.\nWell over 200 virus strains are implicated in causing the common cold, with rhinoviruses being the most common. They spread through the air during close contact with infected people or indirectly through contact with objects in the environment, followed by transfer to the mouth or nose. Risk factors include going to daycare, not sleeping well, and psychological stress. The symptoms are mostly due to the body's immune response to the infection rather than to tissue destruction by the viruses themselves. In contrast, those affected by influenza can show similar symptoms as people with a cold, but symptoms are usually more severe. Additionally, influenza is less likely to result in a runny nose.\nThere is no vaccine for the common cold. The primary methods of prevention are hand washing; not touching the eyes, nose or mouth with unwashed hands; and staying away from sick people. Some evidence supports the use of face masks. There is also no cure, but the symptoms can be treated. Zinc may reduce the duration and severity of symptoms if started shortly after the onset of symptoms. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen may help with pain. Antibiotics, however, should not be used and there is no good evidence for cough medicines.\nThe common cold is the most frequent infectious disease in humans. The average adult gets two to three colds a year, while the average child may get six to eight. Infections occur more commonly during the winter. These infections have existed throughout human history.\n\nThe typical symptoms of a cold include a cough, a runny nose, nasal congestion and a sore throat, sometimes accompanied by muscle ache, fatigue, headache, and loss of appetite. A sore throat is present in about 40% of cases and a cough in about 50%, while muscle ache occurs in about half. In adults, a fever is generally not present but it is common in infants and young children. The cough is usually mild compared to that accompanying influenza. While a cough and a fever indicate a higher likelihood of influenza in adults, a great deal of similarity exists between these two conditions. A number of the viruses that cause the common cold may also result in asymptomatic infections.\n\nThe color of the sputum or nasal secretion may vary from clear to yellow to green and does not indicate the class of agent causing the infection.\n\nA cold usually begins with fatigue, a feeling of being chilled, sneezing, and a headache, followed in a couple of days by a runny nose and cough. Symptoms may begin within sixteen hours of exposure and typically peak two to four days after onset. They usually resolve in seven to ten days, but some can last for up to three weeks. The average duration of cough is eighteen days and in some cases people develop a post-viral cough which can linger after the infection is gone. In children, the cough lasts for more than ten days in 35–40% of cases and continues for more than 25 days in 10%.\n\nThe common cold is a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract. The most commonly implicated virus is a rhinovirus (30–80%), a type of picornavirus with 99 known serotypes. Other commonly implicated viruses include human coronavirus (≈ 15%),influenza viruses (10–15%), adenoviruses (5%), human respiratory syncytial virus, enteroviruses other than rhinoviruses, human parainfluenza viruses, and metapneumovirus. Frequently more than one virus is present. In total over 200 viral types are associated with colds.\n\nThe common cold virus is typically transmitted via airborne droplets (aerosols), direct contact with infected nasal secretions, or fomites (contaminated objects). Which of these routes is of primary importance has not been determined. The viruses may survive for prolonged periods in the environment (over 18 hours for rhinoviruses) and can be picked up by people's hands and subsequently carried to their eyes or nose where infection occurs. Transmission is common in daycare and at school due to the proximity of many children with little immunity and frequently poor hygiene. These infections are then brought home to other members of the family. There is no evidence that recirculated air during commercial flight is a method of transmission. People sitting in close proximity appear to be at greater risk of infection.\n\nRhinovirus-caused colds are most infectious during the first three days of symptoms; they are much less infectious afterwards.\n\nThe traditional theory is that a cold can be \"caught\" by prolonged exposure to cold weather such as rain or winter conditions, which is how the disease got its name. Some of the viruses that cause the common colds are seasonal, occurring more frequently during cold or wet weather. The reason for the seasonality has not been conclusively determined. Possible explanations may include cold temperature-induced changes in the respiratory system, decreased immune response, and low humidity causing an increase in viral transmission rates, perhaps due to dry air allowing small viral droplets to disperse farther and stay in the air longer.\n\nThe apparent seasonality may also be due to social factors, such as people spending more time indoors, near infected people, and specifically children at school. There is some controversy over the role of low body temperature as a risk factor for the common cold; the majority of the evidence suggests that it may result in greater susceptibility to infection.\n\nHerd immunity, generated from previous exposure to cold viruses, plays an important role in limiting viral spread, as seen with younger populations that have greater rates of respiratory infections. Poor immune function is a risk factor for disease. Insufficient sleep and malnutrition have been associated with a greater risk of developing infection following rhinovirus exposure; this is believed to be due to their effects on immune function. Breast feeding decreases the risk of acute otitis media and lower respiratory tract infections among other diseases, and it is recommended that breast feeding be continued when an infant has a cold. In the developed world breast feeding may not be protective against the common cold in and of itself.\n\nThe symptoms of the common cold are believed to be primarily related to the immune response to the virus. The mechanism of this immune response is virus specific. For example, the rhinovirus is typically acquired by direct contact; it binds to human via ICAM-1 receptors and the CDHR3 receptor through unknown mechanisms to trigger the release of inflammatory mediators. These inflammatory mediators then produce the symptoms. It does not generally cause damage to the nasal epithelium. The respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), on the other hand, is contracted by direct contact and airborne droplets. It then replicates in the nose and throat before frequently spreading to the lower respiratory tract. RSV does cause epithelium damage. Human parainfluenza virus typically results in inflammation of the nose, throat, and bronchi. In young children when it affects the trachea it may produce the symptoms of croup due to the small size of their airways.\n\nThe distinction between viral upper respiratory tract infections is loosely based on the location of symptoms with the common cold affecting primarily the nose, pharyngitis (the throat), and bronchitis (the lungs). However, there can be significant overlap and multiple areas can be affected. The common cold is frequently defined as nasal inflammation with varying amount of throat inflammation. Self-diagnosis is frequent. Isolation of the viral agent involved is rarely performed, and it is generally not possible to identify the virus type through symptoms.\n\nThe only useful ways to reduce the spread of cold viruses are physical measures such as hand washing and face masks; in the healthcare environment, gowns and disposable gloves are also used. Isolation or quarantine is not used as the disease is so widespread and symptoms are non-specific. Vaccination has proved difficult as there are many viruses involved and they mutate rapidly. Creation of a broadly effective vaccine is, thus, highly improbable.\n\nRegular hand washing appears to be effective in reducing the transmission of cold viruses, especially among children. Whether the addition of antivirals or antibacterials to normal hand washing provides greater benefit is unknown. Wearing face masks when around people who are infected may be beneficial; however, there is insufficient evidence for maintaining a greater social distance.\n\nIt is unclear if zinc supplements affect the likelihood of contracting a cold. Routine vitamin C supplements do not reduce the risk or severity of the common cold, though they may reduce its duration. Gargling with water was found useful in one small trial.\n\nTreatment for the common cold primarily involves medications and other therapies for symptomatic relief. Getting plenty of rest, drinking fluids to maintain hydration, and gargling with warm salt water are reasonable conservative measures. Much of the benefit from symptomatic treatment is, however, attributed to the placebo effect. No medications or herbal remedies have been conclusively demonstrated to shorten the duration of infection.\n\nTreatments that may help with symptoms include simple pain medication and medications for fevers such as ibuprofen and acetaminophen (paracetamol). It, however, is not clear if acetaminophen helps with symptoms. It is not known if over the counter cough medications are effective for treating an acute cough. Cough medicines are not recommended for use in children due to a lack of evidence supporting effectiveness and the potential for harm. In 2009, Canada restricted the use of over-the-counter cough and cold medication in children six years and under due to concerns regarding risks and unproven benefits. The misuse of dextromethorphan (an over-the-counter cough medicine) has led to its ban in a number of countries. Intranasal corticosteroids have not been found to be useful.\n\nIn adults short term use of nasal decongestants may have a small benefit. Antihistamines may improve symptoms in the first day or two; however, there is no longer-term benefit and they have adverse effects such as drowsiness. Other decongestants such as pseudoephedrine appear effective in adults. Ipratropium nasal spray may reduce the symptoms of a runny nose but has little effect on stuffiness. The safety and effectiveness of nasal decongestant use in children is unclear.\n\nDue to lack of studies, it is not known whether increased fluid intake improves symptoms or shortens respiratory illness. As of 2017 it is unclear if heated and humidified air via the RhinoTherm device was of any benefit. One study has found chest vapor rub to provide some relief of nocturnal cough, congestion, and sleep difficulty.\n\nSome advise to avoid physical exercise if there are symptoms such as fever, widespread muscle aches or fatigue. It is regarded as safe to perform moderate exercise if the symptoms are confined to the head, including runny nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, or a minor sore throat.\n\nAntibiotics have no effect against viral infections or against the viruses that cause the common cold. Due to their side effects, antibiotics cause overall harm but are still frequently prescribed. Some of the reasons that antibiotics are so commonly prescribed include people's expectations for them, physicians' desire to help, and the difficulty in excluding complications that may be amenable to antibiotics. There are no effective antiviral drugs for the common cold even though some preliminary research has shown benefits.\n\nWhile there are many alternative treatments used for the common cold, there is insufficient scientific evidence to support the use of most. As of 2018 there is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against honey. As of 2015 there is tentative evidence to support nasal irrigation.\n\nZinc supplements may shorten the duration and reduce the severity of symptoms if supplementation begins within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms. Some zinc remedies directly applied to the inside of the nose have led to the loss of the sense of smell. A 2017 expert panel, however, found the evidence to be insufficient to recommend zinc's use.\n\nVitamin C's effect on the common cold, while extensively researched, is disappointing, except in limited circumstances: specifically, individuals exercising vigorously in cold environments. There is no firm evidence that Echinacea products provide any meaningful benefit in treating or preventing colds. It is unknown if garlic is effective. A single trial of vitamin D did not find benefit.\n\nThe common cold is generally mild and self-limiting with most symptoms generally improving in a week. Half of cases go away in 10 days and 90% in 15 days. Severe complications, if they occur, are usually in the very old, the very young, or those who are immunosuppressed. Secondary bacterial infections may occur resulting in sinusitis, pharyngitis, or an ear infection. It is estimated that sinusitis occurs in 8% and ear infection in 30% of cases.\n\nThe common cold is the most common human disease and affects people all over the globe. Adults typically have two to three infections annually, and children may have six to ten colds a year (and up to twelve colds a year for school children). Rates of symptomatic infections increase in the elderly due to declining immunity.\n\nNative Americans and Inuit are more likely to be infected with colds and develop complications such as otitis media than Caucasians. This may be explained by issues such as poverty and overcrowding rather than by ethnicity.\n\nWhile the cause of the common cold has only been identified since the 1950s, the disease has been with humanity throughout history. Its symptoms and treatment are described in the Egyptian Ebers papyrus, the oldest existing medical text, written before the 16th century BCE. The name \"cold\" came into use in the 16th century, due to the similarity between its symptoms and those of exposure to cold weather.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Common Cold Unit was set up by the Medical Research Council in 1946 and it was where the rhinovirus was discovered in 1956. In the 1970s, the CCU demonstrated that treatment with interferon during the incubation phase of rhinovirus infection protects somewhat against the disease, but no practical treatment could be developed. The unit was closed in 1989, two years after it completed research of zinc gluconate lozenges in the prophylaxis and treatment of rhinovirus colds, the only successful treatment in the history of the unit.\n\nThe economic impact of the common cold is not well understood in much of the world. In the United States, the common cold leads to 75–100 million physician visits annually at a conservative cost estimate of $7.7 billion per year. Americans spend $2.9 billion on over-the-counter drugs and another $400 million on prescription medicines for symptom relief. More than one-third of people who saw a doctor received an antibiotic prescription, which has implications for antibiotic resistance. An estimated 22–189 million school days are missed annually due to a cold. As a result, parents missed 126 million workdays to stay home to care for their children. When added to the 150 million workdays missed by employees suffering from a cold, the total economic impact of cold-related work loss exceeds $20 billion per year. This accounts for 40% of time lost from work in the United States.\n\nAntivirals have been tested for effectiveness in the common cold; as of 2009, none had been both found effective and licensed for use. There are ongoing trials of the anti-viral drug pleconaril which shows promise against picornaviruses as well as trials of BTA-798. The oral form of pleconaril had safety issues and an aerosol form is being studied. DRACO, a broad-spectrum antiviral therapy, has shown preliminary effectiveness in treating rhinovirus, as well as other infectious viruses.\n\nThe genomes for all known human rhinovirus strains have been sequenced.\n\n"}
{"id": "4379183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4379183", "title": "Cutman", "text": "Cutman\n\nA cutman is a person responsible for preventing and treating physical damage to a fighter during the breaks between rounds of a full contact match such as a boxing, kickboxing or a mixed martial arts bout. Cutmen typically handle swelling, nosebleeds and lacerations. In addition to degrading a fighter's performance, the rules of combat sports stipulate that these injuries can be a cause for premature match stoppage, counting as a loss to the injured fighter. The cutman is therefore essential to the fighter, and can be a decisive factor in the outcome of the match.\n\nThe compensation for cutmen varies, generally staying within 10–15% of fighter's prize money. For many fighters on a low budget, the cutman duties are performed by their cornerman. While most athletic commissions require cutmen to be licensed, there is usually no formal training or certification required. Most cutmen learn their trade through apprenticeship and self-education.\n\nUnlike boxing, cutmen for mixed martial arts events are generally provided by the promotion, rather than the fighter's corner. This is to prevent allegations of \"greasing\" (applying petroleum jelly to areas other than the forehead, which provides an unfair advantage in grappling situations).\n\nCutmen should not be confused with the fight physician, an official who monitors the health of the fighters and whose task is closer to that of a neutral referee. The fight physician provides medical advice, monitors the safety of both fighters in accordance with regulations or law, and evaluates their ability to continue fighting.\n\nBefore the fight, cutmen will usually put petroleum jelly on the most likely areas of impact, especially the fighter's face, making the skin more elastic and slippery, and hence less likely to tear. It is not considered good practice to use large amounts of petroleum jelly, since during the fight it is likely to end up on the gloves of the opponent, and later in the eyes of the fighter if the opponent lands a punch close to their eyes. Cutmen might also tape fighters' hands, which helps protect the bones and tendons. Wraps are used during training but are illegal during competition, though people still commonly use the term \"wrap\" in error to describe the taping method of using gauze and tape. \n\nDuring the fight, cutmen try to control any swelling or bleeding during the breaks between rounds. Since cutmen are not doctors, and have a very short period of time to treat the fighter, their treatments are limited to advanced first aid treatments.\n\nSwelling is usually associated with facial hematomas (bruises), and is traditionally reduced by applying firm pressure with a chilled enswell or an ice bag on top of the area of trauma. The cutman presses the enswell against a fighter's skin to cool and reduce swelling from injuries, especially in areas around the eyes where swelling can impair vision. Since the time between rounds is very short, cutmen try to apply the enswell right away and hold it as long as they can, but a common mistake is using the enswell to push directly on the swollen area in an attempt to disperse it or move it into a safer place such as away from the eye. Such treatment will not move the hematoma, and may disrupt the microscopic blood vessels under the skin, thus causing an increase in bleeding and enlargement of the swelled area.\n\nCuts (lacerations) are the primary focus of the cutman because unless the bleeding is stopped promptly, the fight physician may stop the fight and declare that the injured fighter has lost the match. Physicians also will stop a match for a laceration that is perpendicular to the eye. The most common area of the face to be cut is around the eye. Cuts are treated by applying a cold towel to clean and simultaneously cool the area of the cut, causing a decrease in blood flow. A cotton swab soaked in epinephrine is applied with pressure to decrease blood flow even more, and Avitene is put into the cut to coagulate the blood. A cutman might also cover the area with petroleum jelly to prevent further damage.\n\nMost nosebleeds occur near the opening of the nose. To stop the bleeding, cutmen generally apply a cotton swab soaked in adrenaline hydrochloride to the damaged area, while simultaneously pressing the nostril against the cotton swab with the other hand. Once the bleeding has stopped, the area is chilled with an ice pack or an enswell. The fighter is usually instructed to breathe through the mouth during the treatment.\n\nA broken nose is a more difficult case, and can be detected by a heavy flow of dark colored blood from the nose. The bleeding is generally treated the same way; however, the fighter is usually instructed to avoid swallowing blood as it may induce nausea or vomiting, and the cutman is more likely to consult the ringside physician to ensure the fighter's safety.\n\n\nCutmen used to create their own medications, and the recipes were passed from masters to apprentices as trade secrets. Today, the use of various medications in sports is highly controlled, and most cutmen use only two or three standard medications from the list below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11650058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11650058", "title": "Debbie Sell", "text": "Debbie Sell\n\nDebbie Sell, OBE, FRCSLT (born June 21, 1954) is a leading British speech and language therapist.\nSell qualified in 1976 with a diploma in speech Pathology and Therapeutics from the College of Education in Leicester. Her first appointment as a speech therapist was at Whipps Cross Hospital where she worked from 1976 to 1978. Between 1978 and 1981, she worked at St. Georges Hospital, Tooting, London. In 1981 she moved to Great Ormond Street Hospital in London and was appointed head of the department of speech and language therapy in 1996. She gained her Phd in 1992 from De Montfort University for an investigation of speech outcome in Sri Lankan cleft palate subjects with delayed surgery. \n\nShe was a key member of the Sri Lankan Cleft Lip and Palate Project, and was Assistant Director of the Eurocleft Speech Group. In the late 1990s, she directed the speech research of the national UK Clinical Standards Advisory Group (CSAG) study in cleft lip and palate, and was subsequently a member of the National Cleft Implementation Group. Her research interests are several and include the management and evaluation of velopharyngeal function, including surgical and prosthetics outcomes associated with structural anomalies and the 22q11DS group, the delivery of speech and language therapy in the Developing World for patients with cleft lip and palate, and methods for the perceptual evaluation of speech. In 2001, she co-edited the British textbook “Management of Cleft Lip and Palate” with Watson and Grunwell. She is currently co-editing a book on Cleft Care in the Developing World with orthodontist Michael Mars and paediatrician Alexander Habel.\n\nShe became Honorary Lecturer at Institute of Child Health and then Honorary Senior Lecturer in 1999. Between 1999 –2003, she was Visiting Professor at the Faculty of Health and Community Studies, De Montfort University and in 2003 was Distinguished Visiting Fellow at the Institute of Advanced Studies University of Latrobe in Melbourne, Australia and the Royal Children’s Hospital.\n\nDebbie is a Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists (FRCSLT), the Cranifacial Society of Great Britain and Ireland, Health Professions Council and the American Cleft Lip and Palate Association.\n\nShe was awarded the Fellowship of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists for “work of special value to the profession in one or more of the following areas: research, teaching, publishing, practice” in 1999. \n\nIn 2006 she was awarded the OBE for services to the National Health Service.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52667909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52667909", "title": "Edgar King", "text": "Edgar King\n\nEdgar Samuel John King CMG DSc FRACP FRACS MCPA FAA, (10 June 1900, Mosgiel, Otago, New Zealand – 31 January 1966, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia), was an Australian surgeon and pathologist.\n"}
{"id": "52958915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52958915", "title": "Electric smoking system", "text": "Electric smoking system\n\nAn electrically-heated smoking system, also known as a heated tobacco product or heat-not-burn tobacco product (HNB), uses an electric heating element to char tobacco, at a lower temperature than a conventional cigarette. The result is a smoke that contains nicotine, other chemicals, and particulates. These products may match some of the behavioral aspects of smoking. Some tobacco companies claim these products are less harmful to consumers than other types of cigarettes, but there is no reliable evidence to support these claims. \n\nSome of these products take loose-leaf tobacco in a heated chamber; others require product-specific cigarettes. Products heating cigarettes using an external heat source first came to market in 1988, however they were not a commercial success. These products are currently being re-introduced by large tobacco companies. \n\nThere is not enough research to evaluate the level of harm of these products. A 2016 Cochrane review found that it was unclear whether using these products instead of conventional cigarettes would \"substantially alter the risk of harm\". Also in 2016, the WHO noted that some scientists believe these products to be as harmful as traditional cigarettes, and stated that no convincing evidence had been presented for industry claims of lowered risk and health benefits. Independent research is not available to support these claims; they are based on industry-funded research. Independent 2018 reanalysis of data from industry research has found deficiencies and omissions in the evidence used to support the industry's claims.\n\nAction on Smoking and Health stated in 2016 that due to \"the tobacco industry's long record of deceit\" regarding the health risks involving smoking, it is important to conduct independent studies into the health effects of these products. Carlos Jiménez, director of research on smoking at the Spanish Society of Pneumonology and Thoracic Surgery, criticized the industry data available in 2017. \n\nThe effects of second-hand exposure are unknown. \n\nSuch products are believed to be just as addictive as conventional cigarettes. Nearly half of people using these products had never used conventional cigarettes, according to a small survey done in Italy. This has caused concern that the products might cause nicotine addiction rather than reduce harm to those who already smoke.\n\nThere is not enough evidence to know if HnB products help with quitting smoking. In one manufacturer-led study, smokers using Hnb products mostly did not stop using regular cigarettes; they mostly used both, although the HnB products were supplied to them for free.\n\nThere is no information on the effects of smoking HnB devices during pregnancy, as of 2018. However, they are nicotine-containing products. It is unsafe to use any product containing nicotine during pregnancy and breastfeeding, as nicotine harms the fetus. Nicotine use during pregnancy increases the child's risk of respiratory problems, neurobehavioral defects, obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and infertility.\n\nNicotine is released from tobacco heated above 140°C. Heating tobacco causes pyrolysis; organic material breaks down, releasing most of the substances found in regular cigarette smoke. At higher temperatures, the carbon increasingly combines with atmospheric oxygen, releasing carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. It is possible to heat to a temperature hot enough to cause pyrolysis, but not hot enough to oxidize and release the carbon. This ancient process is called charring, and the carbon-rich residue is called char.\n\nHnB products vary, but can heat to these charring temperatures. The composition of the smoke is changed by lower temperatures: levels of some substances fall, while levels of others rise. While the nicotine is the main addictive component in tobacco, some pyrolysis products of tobacco are thought to reinforce addiction (such as acetaldehyde, norharman, and harman), some of which have been found in lower levels in the smoke of HnB products.\n\nThese products are marketed as \"heat-not-burn\" and \"smoke-free\". However, independent researchers who tested a common \"heat-not-burn\" device explicitly disagreed with the claim that they are smokeless, arguing that the emitted aerosol is smoke, as it contains pyrolysis products. Independent researchers studying the aerosols produced by heat-not-burn products commonly call those aerosols \"smoke\". Independent research has also disputed the claim that the products are \"heat-not-burn\" devices.\n\nThe first commercial heat-not-burn product was the R.J. Reynolds Premier, a smokeless cigarette launched in 1988 and described as difficult to use. Many smokers disliked the taste. It was shaped like a traditional cigarette, and when heated the smoldered charcoal moved past processed tobacco containing more than 50 percent glycerin to create a smoke including aerosolized nicotine. It did require some combustion. In 1989, after spending $325 million, R.J. Reynolds pulled it from the market months later after organisations recommended to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to restrict it or classify it as a drug.\n\nThe Premier product concept went on to be further developed and re-launched as Eclipse in the mid-1990s, and was available in limited distribution as of 2015. Reynolds American stated that the Revo was a \"repositioning\" of its Eclipse. R.J. Reynolds' Revo was withdrawn in 2015.\n\nPhilip Morris International (PMI) launched a cigarette in 1998 that was placed into an electronic heating device as Accord. The battery-powered product was the size of a pager. The product was marketed as \"low-smoke\". Ads claiming reduced risk were drafted, but never released; an attempt was made to get the Surgeon General of the United States to endorse it without requiring long-term studies on its health effects. Few people started using the Accord, and almost all users also continued to use regular cigarettes. The Accord was discontinued in 2006, eight years after it came on the market.\n\nIn 2007 PMI launched the Heatbar, which was nearly identical to the Accord. The Heatbar was around the size of a mobile phone and was said to heat specifically designed cigarettes rather than burning them. The only benefit was to lower second-hand smoke, which lead to Heatbar being discontinued. Heatbar did not obtain any significant user reception. Accord and Heatbar are predecessors of PMI's current heat-not-burn tobacco products.\n\nThe ubiquitousness of electronic cigarettes and growing dissatisfaction with not providing a throat-hit may present an opportunity for heat-not-burn tobacco products. These products are currently being introduced by large tobacco companies. PMI anticipates a future without traditional cigarettes, but campaigners and industry analysts call into question the probability of traditional cigarettes being dissolved, by either e-cigarettes or other products like iQOS.\n\nThe products are designed to be similar their conventional counterparts. A tobacco stick along with a heating element will provide the user a choice across the different heat-not-burn tobacco products available. Another type of heat-not-burn tobacco product is the loose-leaf tobacco vaporizer that entails putting loose-leaf tobacco into a chamber, which is electrically heated using an element.\n\nThe 3T from Vapor Tobacco Manufacturing was launched in December 2014. The product employs a patented, aqueous system whereby desired components are extracted into water. The liquid is mixed with glycerin and aerosolized producing a smoke without combustion by an electronic heating system. Their organic liquids are made from organic tobacco, organic glycerin, and water.\n\nIn 2016 British American Tobacco (BAT) launched a heat-not-burn product called glo in Japan. glo is battery-powered. It uses a heating element with a tobacco stick. In May 2017 they released i-glo in Canada. The glo iFuse debuted in Romania by BAT in 2015. It uses a cartridge with a tobacco stick and a flavored nicotine liquid. Bonnie Herzog, a senior analyst at Wells Fargo Securities stated that the proposed acquisition of R. J. Reynolds by BAT in 2016 would let them catch up in the technology competition.\n\nThe introduction of IQOS was announced on 26 June 2014. Although it is marketed as a novel product, it is very similar to the \"Accord\" product released by the same company in 1998; however, the IQOS cigarettes have more nicotine, more tar, and less tobacco. They are heated to a lower temperature, and the kit costs about US$40 more in 2018 dollars. The product is marketed by Philip Morris International (PMI) under the Marlboro and Parliament brands. \n\nInitially launched in 2014 in Nagoya, Japan and Milan, Italy, IQOS is being gradually rolled out to other countries. By end of 2016 it was available in over 20 countries, with expansion plans into several more in 2017 as manufacturing capacity increases. PMI has projected that when 30 billions units are sold, iQOS would increase profits by $700 million. To date, the company claims that total investments made in the development and assessment of these products have exceeded $3 billion. Phillip Morris spent €500 million on iQOS in 2016 alone.\n\niQOS consists of a charger around the size of a mobile phone and a holder that looks like a pen. The disposable tobacco stick, which looks somewhat like a short cigarette, has been dipped in propylene glycol, is inserted into the holder which then heats it to temperatures up to 350 °C. The smoke released contains nicotine and other chemicals. The amount of nicotine provided may be a little strong for light cigarette smokers. Users have reported less smell and odour on clothing. The smoke generated by iQOS contains substances from pyrolysis and thermogenic degradation that are identical to the constituents found in traditional tobacco cigarette smoke. A 2017 review found \"little research on what substances are released after the device heats the tobacco-based paste. The physical effects on users are also not yet known.\"\n\nOne independent study of the iQOS criticized Phillip Morris, saying \"Dancing around the definition of smoke to avoid indoor-smoking bans is unethical\" and called for more independent research, saying \"Smokers and non-smokers need accurate information about toxic compounds released in IQOS smoke. This information should come from sources independent of the tobacco industry\". After the study was published, the heads of the three Swiss universities where the authors worked received letters from Phillip Morris, accusing the authors of faulty methodology, and subsequently the researchers were not willing to talk to a journalist. JAMA Internal Medicine, which published the study, described the letters as unusual and smacking of intimidation. Phillip Morris also published an online academic counter-argument.\n\nIn December 2016, PMI submitted an multi-million page application to the US FDA for iQOS to be authorized as a modified risk tobacco product. The FDA reviewed Phillip Morris's data, some independent studies, including the May 2017 Swiss paper about toxic compounds in iQOS smoke mentioned above, a December 2017 amendment to the application by Phillip Morris on the same topic, and the FDA's own laboratory testing data.\n\nIn January 2018, the FDA advisory panel ruled that Phillip Morris had not shown that their product cut health risks; the panel also \"expressed concerns about the lack of data\" on risk relative to cigarettes. The Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids criticized the product, saying that it looks like the e-cigarettes which children use the most. IQOS is marketed in stores and packaging which resemble those of high-end smartphones, a strategy expected to appeal to youth by associating it with their interests in new technology.\n\nPMI intends to convert its customers in Japan to using heat-not-burn products. iQOS is sold as an alternative to cigarettes. PMI states that they understand that its iQOS product will be as addictive as tobacco smoking. iQOS is sold with a warning that the best option is to avoid tobacco use altogether.\n\niSmoke OneHitter by iSmoke was launched in 2015. It can be used as a loose-leaf tobacco vaporizer. It has a chamber that can be filled with up to 800-milligrams of tobacco.\n\nKorea Tobacco & Ginseng Corporation announced on 8 June 2017 that they will launch a heat-not-burn tobacco product in September 2017.\n\nPAX Labs, formerly known as Ploom, sells PAX vaporizers. In 2010 they launched Ploom, a butane-powered product used for the heating tobacco or botanical products. Later models replaced butane heating with an electric system. After its initial partnership with Japan Tobacco was abandoned, the company became known as Pax Labs. The Pax 2 uses loose-leaf tobacco. The surface of the Pax 2 remains cool, while the oven heats to temperatures up to 455 °F. It has four temperature options.\n\nIn January 2016 Japan Tobacco (JT) released Ploom TECH. JT's Ploom has been withdrawn from the US. The Ploom brand, however, remained with JT and the product itself has been replaced with a different product called Ploom Tech, in which an aerosol passes through a capsule of granulated tobacco leaves. Sales are being expanded throughout Japan in 2017. They intend to spend $500 million to increase their heated tobacco manufacturing capacity by late 2018.\n\nV2 originally released their vaporizer line named V2 Pro in July 2014. The initial product was named Series 3. Series 3 comes with 3 cartridges including a loose-leaf cartridge, which heats the material by conduction. It comes with a battery and USB changer, among other things. Pro Series 3X also by V2 can be used with dry material. It has three different air flow options that can be adjusted with a slight turn of the mouthpiece. Series 7 comes with a loose-leaf cartridge, among other things. Series 7 lets the user change the temperature by using a single button.\n\nIn the United States, these products fall under the jurisdiction of the Food and Drug Administration. , 19 countries have permitted the sale of iQOS. Advertisement for the iQOS, but not iQOS' tobacco stick, is not regulated under the European Union Tobacco Products Directive. Heat-not-burn tobacco products are not restricted for sale in Israel by the Ministry of Health. Ploom and iQOS are governed by the Tobacco Industries Act regulations as tobacco products in Japan. The Liberal Democratic Party will deliberate over increasing the tax rate for heat-not-burn tobacco products in April 2018. iQOS's refill sticks are not legal for sale in New Zealand by the Ministry of Health. Emerging tobacco products are banned in Singapore by the Ministry of Health. Electronic tobacco products using dry material are regulated as e-cigarettes in South Korea by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Korea regulates e-cigarettes differently than traditional cigarettes for tax reasons. As a result, iQOS are taxed at a decreased rate, compared to the 75% incurred on normal cigarettes.\n\nAction on Smoking and Health stated in 2016 that \"unless and until independent evidence shows that IQOS and similar products are substantially less harmful than smoking then these products should be regulated in the same way as other tobacco products.\" Tobacco control activist Stanton Glantz stated that the US FDA should halt new tobacco products until tobacco companies stop selling traditional cigarettes. \"There is concern that heat-not-burn tobacco will skirt local ordinances that prevent smoking in public areas,\" Mitchell H. Katz, director of the Los Angeles County Health Agency, wrote in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "36335582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36335582", "title": "Epidemiology data for low-linear energy transfer radiation", "text": "Epidemiology data for low-linear energy transfer radiation\n\nEpidemiological studies of the health effects of low levels of ionizing radiation, in particular the incidence and mortality from various forms of cancer, have been carried out in different population groups exposed to such radiation. These have included survivors of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, workers at nuclear reactors, and medical patients treated with X-rays.\n\nSurvivors of the atomic bomb explosions at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan have been the subjects of a Life Span Study (LSS), which has provided valuable epidemiological data.\n\nThe LSS population went through several changes:\n\nHowever, some 44,000 individuals were censured or excluded from the LSS project, so there remained about 86,000 people who were followed through the study. There is a gap in knowledge of the earliest cancer that developed in the first few years after the war, which impacts the assessment of leukemia to an important extent and for solid cancers to a minor extent. Table 1 shows summary statistics of the number of persons and deaths for different dose groups. These comparisons show that the doses that were received by the LSS population overlap strongly with the doses that are of concern to NASA Exploration mission (i.e., 50 to 2,000 milliSieverts (mSv)).\n\nFigure 1 shows the dose response for the excess relative risk (ERR) for all solid cancers from Preston et al. Tables 2 and 3 show several summary parameters for tissue-specific cancer mortality risks for females and males, respectively, including estimates of ERR, excess absolute risk (EAR), and percentage attributable risks. Cancer incidence risks from low-LET radiation are about 60% higher than cancer mortality risks.\n\nThe BEIR VII Report contains an extensive review of data sets from human populations, including nuclear reactor workers and patients who were treated with radiation. The recent report from Cardis et al. describes a meta-analysis for reactor workers from several countries. A meta-analysis at specific cancer sites, including breast, lung, and leukemia, has also been performed. These studies require adjustments for photon energy, dose-rate, and country of origin as well as adjustments made in single population studies. Table 4 shows the results that are derived from Preston et al. for a meta-analysis of breast cancer risks in eight populations, including the atomic-bomb survivors. The median ERR varies by slightly more than a factor of two, but confidence levels significantly overlap. Adjustments for photon energy or dose-rate and fractionation have not been made. These types of analysis lend confidence to risk assessments as well as showing the limitations of such data sets.\n\nOf special interest to NASA is the dependence on age at exposure of low-LET cancer risk projections. The BEIR VII report prefers models that show less than a 25% reduction in risk over the range from 35 to 55 years, while NCRP Report No. 132 shows about a two-fold reduction over this range.\n\n"}
{"id": "24241366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24241366", "title": "Family Health Care Decisions Act", "text": "Family Health Care Decisions Act\n\nThe Family Health Care Decisions Act is a statute adopted in New York state in 2010 that had been pending before the legislature since 1994. The statute was approved by the New York State Senate in July, 2009. The legislation was introduced by state senator Thomas Duane of Manhattan. It was signed into law by Gov. David Paterson on March 16, 2010. \n\nThe law adds new Articles 29-CC and 29-CCC to the Public Health Law and amends other existing sections of the laws of the State. It allows the relatives of incapacitated patients to make medical decisions for their family members in the absence of a living will or health care proxy. Currently, all other states except for Missouri permit such surrogacy. Advocates have called the bill the \"most important piece of medical legislation since lawmakers legalized health care proxies in 1990.\" \n\nBefore this law went into effect, the only legal rights that a husband or wife had in New York regarding a spouse who cannot make medical decisions is to choose whether he or she should be resuscitated after a cardiac arrest. The goal of this FHCDA is to guarantee that family members have increased control over their relatives' health. \n\nAmong the safeguard provided in the bill are rules that require the capacity of the patient must be assessed and reassessed by two physicians, that spouses rely upon the stated wishes of the incapacitated patient and that life-sustaining care be curtailed only when a patient is either terminally ill, won't regain consciousness, or has an irreversible medical condition that will result in great suffering.\n\nTwo features of the legislation proved controversial prior to enactment. One allowed domestic partners to act as surrogates, a provision that was opposed by those concerned that it would buttress the claims of those who favored gay marriage. This concern became a moot point after New York recognized same-sex marriage. Another was the absence of any provision guaranteeing that the welfare of fetuses will be considered when making surrogacy decisions for incapacitated pregnant women.\n\nDr. Jacob Appel, a backer of the legislation, argued that it \"would give New Yorkers a right that many believe they already possess.\" Supporters of the law include the Healthcare Association of New York State and Compassion & Choices.\n\nThe New York State Right to Life Committee had opposed early proposed versions of the Family Health Care Decisions Act, alleging that they did not protect the rights of a surrogate who decides to choose life-saving medical treatment for the patient she or he represents, instead allowing the patient’s health care provider to deny the requested treatment based on “quality of life” factors.\n\nHowever, in 2007 the bill was revised to require health care providers who disagree with a surrogate choice for life-saving treatment nevertheless to provide it, pending either transfer to a willing health care provider or judicial review; thereafter, the Right to Life Committee endorsed and lobbied for the legislation.\n\n"}
{"id": "46546036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46546036", "title": "Film/video-based therapy", "text": "Film/video-based therapy\n\nFilm/video-based therapy involves making movies with clients. \nIt draws from several disciplines from cinema therapy, expressive therapy, narrative therapy, art therapy, digital storytelling, and phototherapy which requires a collaboration to integrate the many dynamic aspects of art and medicine. \nJoshua Lee Cohen, author and co-editor of \"Video and Filmmaking as Psychotherapy: Research and Practice\" (published by Routledge in 2015), helped to establish a collaborative effort in forming film/video-based therapy. This form of therapy is about making films with clients, as opposed to cinema therapy, which involves watching films. Josh Cohen has utilized watching films and mindfulness in his work.\n\nFilm/video-based therapy is used in both research and practice. It has several names. Each name has a slightly different purpose for each population.\n\nTherapeutic filmmaking is used for both veterans and therapists and is left intentionally ambiguous, so that the military will not be intimidated by the stigma of a diagnosis. The lack of pressure to call it \"therapy\" opens up a space to allow for new and old healthy memories to form.\n\nVideo art therapy is used primarily in private practice with art therapists, drama therapists, and other expressive art therapists.\n\nDigital storytelling is also used in collaboration with film/video-based therapy and is used primarily for education.\n\nStorytelling is an indigenous and ancient way for people to relate to one another and to understand the mysteries of life. Using modern technology, artists have used film and video for expressing ancient and modern images and sounds.\n\nFilm/video-based therapy is a collaboration between clinicians and practitioners in art therapy, expressive therapy, phototherapy, psychotherapy, digital storytelling and other mental health and academic fields of study and practice. Currently art therapists, expressive therapists, psychologists, masters level practitioners, psychiatrists, anthropologists, filmmakers, academics, and other clinicians have contributed to this collaborative effort in building a global community to help further define this field. The use of film and video in, or as, therapy, has a decades-long history in practice. Early work in this field included the post-World War II use of experimental, non-narrative films to calm veterans suffering from shell shock. The 1970s saw boys in a group creating short films together to foster group cohesion, mastery skills, and better communication. With the advent of portable video equipment in the 1970s, female artists began turning the camera on themselves, making themselves the object of their own gaze.\n\nThere is a dearth of literature on the theory and practice of using film/video production as therapy and the multidisciplinary practitioners who support its use. Copious literature exists discussing the use of related media in a therapeutic context, such as photography, writing, drawing, music, and drama, but this body of literature is virtually vacant of film/video as a therapeutic medium.\n\nDespite the fact that there is little writing in this area, numerous practitioners from around North America and Europe are quietly working with film/video-based therapy – often independently, as the community of practitioners is still quite small and geographically scattered.\n\nThis is an attempt to bridge that gap and bring people together as a global community and new research and practices are emerging. \nCohen will be the program chair for the American Psychological Association's Division 31 and 46 in Washington DC in 2017 where authors are welcome to attend this conference from around the world.\n\nFilm/video-based therapy is also being used with virtual reality and specifically designed to treat bipolar disorder through somatic techniques which is different from the cognitive/exposure therapy being used today. Medications and therapy may be necessary to use before one can take on triggers that could overwhelm the nervous system. If one is in a manic state and exposed to triggers before regulated, one could be re traumatized and put into a psychosis. To gain mastery of this skill, one would need to have a healthy environment in the real world before entering a virtual one.\n\nOne theory as to why film/video-based therapy works with trauma, may be due to the reprocessing that happens during the final moments of editing, similar to EMDR. In the moment of making a film, one can use somatic experiencing which was designed to regulate the autonomic nervous system. Telling one's story can help to reprocess old memories while avoiding triggers or reprocessing them in a new way using the technology. There is some research in this area yet, but it is still in development.\n\nFilm/video-based therapy is also about building a therapeutic relationship with a person and a wider support group or community. When dealing with any technology, whether virtual reality or digital storytelling, the theory remains the same, film/video-based therapy is about using technology for human purposes and building relationships to others and nature. Technology is just the language for understanding, appreciating, and honoring our nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "53912364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53912364", "title": "Gonadotropin-releasing hormone modulator", "text": "Gonadotropin-releasing hormone modulator\n\nA GnRH modulator, or GnRH receptor modulator, is a type of medication which modulates the GnRH receptor, the biological target of the hypothalamic hormone gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). They include GnRH agonists and GnRH antagonists. These medications may be GnRH analogues like leuprorelin and cetrorelix – peptides that are structurally related to GnRH – or small-molecules like elagolix, which are structurally distinct from GnRH analogues.\n\nGnRH modulators affect the secretion of the gonadotropins, luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), which in turn affects the gonads, influencing their function and hence fertility as well as the production of sex steroids, including that of estradiol and progesterone in women and of testosterone in men. As such, GnRH modulators can also be described as progonadotropic or antigonadotropic, depending on whether they act to increase or decrease gonadotropins.\n\n = Under development; not yet marketed.\n\n"}
{"id": "649422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649422", "title": "Great Man-Made River", "text": "Great Man-Made River\n\nThe Great Man-Made River (GMR, ) is a network of pipes that supplies water to the Sahara in Libya, from the Nubian Sandstone Aquifer System fossil aquifer. It is the world's largest irrigation project.\n\nAccording to its website, it is the largest underground network of pipes () and aqueducts in the world. It consists of more than 1,300 wells, most more than 500 m deep, and supplies 6,500,000 m of fresh water per day to the cities of Tripoli, Benghazi, Sirte and elsewhere. The late Libyan Leader Muammar Gaddafi described it as the \"Eighth Wonder of the World\".\n\nIn 1953, efforts to find oil in southern Libya led to the discovery of large quantities of fresh water underground. The Great Man-made River Project (GMRP) was conceived in the late 1960s and work on the project began in 1984. The project's construction was divided into five phases. The first phase required 85 million m³ of excavation and was inaugurated on 28 August 1991. The second phase (dubbed \"First water to Tripoli\") was inaugurated on 1 September 1996.\n\nThe project is owned by the Great Man-Made River Project Authority and was funded by the Gaddafi government. The primary contractor for the first phases was Dong Ah Consortium and the present main contractor is Al Nahr Company Ltd.\n\nThe imported goods were made in Korea and destined to the construction of the GMR arrived by sea via the entry port of Brega (Gulf of Sidra). Cathodic corrosion protection on the pipeline was supplied by an Australian company, AMAC Corrosion Protection, based in Melbourne and delivered via Port of Benghazi. The rest of goods were made in Libya.\n\nThe total cost of the project is projected at more than US$25 billion. Libya has completed the work to date without the financial support of major countries or loans from world banks. Since 1990 UNESCO has provided training to engineers and technicians involved with the project.\n\nThe fossil aquifer from which this water is being supplied is the Nubian Sandstone Aquifer System. It accumulated during the last ice age and is not currently being replenished. If 2007 rates of retrieval are not increased, the water could last a thousand years. Independent estimates indicate that the aquifer could be depleted of water in as soon as 60 to 100 years. Analysts say that the costs of the $25 billion groundwater extraction system are 10% those of desalination.\n\nIn this project 1,000 million euros were invested for the installation of 50,000 artificial palm trees for water condensation. This project was carried out by the Spanish engineer Antonio Ibáñez de Alba\n\nOn 22 July during the 2011 Libyan civil war, one of the two plants making pipes for the project, the Brega Plant, was hit by a NATO air strike. At a press conference on 26 July, NATO explained that rockets had been fired from within the plant area, and that military material, including multiple rocket launchers, was stored there according to intelligence findings, presenting a photo showing a BM-21 MRL as an example.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6173553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6173553", "title": "Heart Institute, University of São Paulo", "text": "Heart Institute, University of São Paulo\n\nThe Heart Institute, University of São Paulo (Instituto do Coração da Universidade de São Paulo, or InCor) is one of the clinical institutes of the central University's teaching hospital (Hospital das Clínicas da Universidade de São Paulo) and recognized as one of the world's academic and clinical excellence centers in cardiology, cardiovascular medicine and cardiovascular surgery.\n\nThe Heart Institute was founded in 1963 by the noted cardiovascular surgeon and professor of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of São Paulo, Dr. Euryclides de Jesus Zerbini.\n\n"}
{"id": "7218856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7218856", "title": "Henrik Sillem", "text": "Henrik Sillem\n\nHenrik Sillem (12 August 1866, Amsterdam – 13 July 1907, Courmayeur, Italy) was a Dutch jurist, mountaineer and sports shooter.\n\nHenrik Sillem was the son of Johann Gottlieb Sillem, banker with Hope & Co. bankers, Amsterdam. His mother was Jkvr. Judith Catharina Henriette Hoeufft.\n\nHenrik Sillem studied law at the University of Amsterdam. He graduated as Doctor of Law on May 8, 1891, with a thesis 'Het faillissement des verzekeraars' (Bankruptcy of insurance companies)' published by Roeloffzen en Hubner, Amsterdam in 1891.\n\nOn May 28, 1891 he married in Arnhem jkvr. Susanna Catharina Beatrix des Tombe (born February 24, 1869, Arnhem - died November 6, 1948) the daughter of jonkheer François Joan Adriaan des Tombe and Beatrix Cruys. The couple had two sons, Francois Johann and Henrick (Boet) Sillem, before divorcing in 1897.\n\nIn 1902, in London, Sillem married Bertha Johanna Eva Reuser, (1879-1971), daughter of Johann and Katharina Anna Reuser Schmolck.\n\nHenrik Sillem worked in Amsterdam as a lawyer, legal advisor and public prosecutor.\n\nTogether with his friend Solko van den Bergh and the Frenchman François Monod, Sillem initiated the first 'international shooting matches' (world championships in shooting) in 1897 in Lyon. These were the forerunners of the matches that were held in Paris in 1900, now considered to have been part of the Olympics. Sillem competed with the Dutch pistol team and won a bronze medal.\n\nWhen he was 19, Sillem climbed the Matterhorn from the northern side, with FG Waller. In 1902 he reached an altitude of 6,400 m (21,000 ft) on Nun in Kashmir. In 1905 he climbed the Aconcagua in the Andes. He also climbed Antarctica's Mount Kinsey and Mount Ellie.\n\nIn March 1906, Henrik Sillem made the first ascent of the West Ridge of Mt Cook in New Zealand with guide Peter Graham.\n\nSillem only reached the age of 41; in 1907 he fell while descending the Aiguille du Midi and was buried nearby, in Courmayeur.\n\n"}
{"id": "1868144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1868144", "title": "High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area", "text": "High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area\n\nThe High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area program (HIDTA) is a drug-prohibition enforcement program run by the United States Office of National Drug Control Policy. It was established in 1990 after the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 was passed.\n\nThe mission of the program is \"to enhance and coordinate America's drug-control efforts among local, state and Federal law enforcement agencies in order to eliminate or reduce drug trafficking and its harmful consequences in critical regions of the United States.\"\n\nThe term HIDTA also refers to each geographic location, usually a major city, county, or border crossing, in which the program has established a headquarters. These headquarters are placed in locations considered to be major drug trafficking zones. The five HIDTA offices along the United States–Mexico border are grouped into a single \"Southwest Border HIDTA\" unit. Twenty eight HIDTAs have been designated since the program began.\n\nEach HIDTA is governed by a HIDTA Executive Board which includes representatives of local, state and federal law enforcement agencies in the area of the HIDTA. By law, each HIDTA Board is equally divided between federal law enforcement on the one side and state and local agencies on the other.\n\nIn popular culture, HIDTA was featured in an episode of \"Law & Order\" entitled \"Locomotion\". It aired in the show's 15th year (2004–2005 season). The two primary homicide detectives visited the HIDTA Branch in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.\n\nAlso, during episode 2 of \"True Detective\" the audience learns of Rustin Cohle's previous law enforcement history, including participation in the HIDTA program including detailing the effects and consequences of participating in such programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "7486352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7486352", "title": "Irrigation tank", "text": "Irrigation tank\n\nAn irrigation tank or tank is an artificial reservoir of any size. They are mainly found in India. (The word \"sagar\" refers to a large lake, usually man-made). It can also have a natural or man-made spring included as part of a structure. Tanks are part of an ancient tradition of harvesting and preserving the local rainfall and water from streams and rivers for later use, primarily for agriculture and drinking water, but also for sacred bathing and ritual. Often a tank was constructed across a slope so to collect and store water by taking advantage of local mounds and depressions. Tank use is especially critical in parts of South India without perennial rainfall where water supply replenishment is dependent on a cycle of dry seasons alternating with monsoon seasons.\n\nWater is considered a purifying and regenerative element in India, and is an essential element of prayer and ritual. Water is also revered because of its scarcity in western India where dry and monsoon seasons alternate and failure of the monsoon season means famine and death while plentiful water replacing irrigations sources is a time of rejoicing. This resulted in building water storage tanks that combined the practical and sacred.\nSince ancient times, the design of water storage has been important in Indian architecture. As early as 3000 BC, sophisticated systems of drains, wells and tanks were built to conserve and utilise water. Tank building as an art form began with the Hindus and developed under Muslim rule.\n\nAn example of the art of tank design is the large, geometically spectacular Stepped Tank at the Royal Center at the ruins of Vijayanagara, the capital of the Vijayanagara Empire, surrounding the modern town of Hampi. It is lined with green diorite and has no drain. The tank was filled by aqueduct.\n\nRalegaon Siddhi is an example of a village that revitalised its ancient tank system.\nIn 1975 the village was drought-stricken. The village tank could not hold water as the earthen embankment dam wall leaked. Work began with the percolation tank construction by the villagers who donated their labor to repair the embankment. Once this was fixed, the village's seven wells below the tank filled with water in the summer for the first time in memory. Now the village has a supply of water throughout the year.\n\nTanks known as \"Pushkarni\" or \"Kalyani\" also known as \"Kund\" in Hindi are reservoirs with steps leading down to the water, generally found in South India, and sometimes constructed within the walls of a temple complex.\n\nBathing in the sacred waters of a temple tank was believed to cure worshippers of afflictions such as leprosy and blindness. Many temple tanks are decaying and drying up today.\n\nStepwells, also called \"bavdi\" () or \"bavli\" (), are wells in which the water can be reached by descending a set of steps. They are most common in the west of India.\n\nStepwells were often used for leisure, providing relief from daytime heat. This led to the building of some significant ornamental and architectural features, often associated with dwellings and in urban areas. It also ensured their survival as monuments.\n\nThe development of large-scale water management methods and hydroelectric generation have replaced much of the local efforts and community management of water. For example, the state of Karnataka has about 44,000 artificial wetlands locally constructed over many centuries. At least 328 are threatened today.\n\nHowever, recently a tank regeneration movement initiated by communities and non-governmental organisations (NGO) has arisen. Today, there are approximately 120,000 small-scale tanks, irrigating about 41,200 km² in semi-arid areas of India. This constitutes about one third of the total irrigated land in South India.\n\n\nPalanisami, K, and Easer, E.W. (2000). \"Tank Irrigation in the 21st Century—What Next?\" Discovery, Delhi, Discovery. .\n\n"}
{"id": "51005397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51005397", "title": "Jean-Henri-Guillaume Krombach", "text": "Jean-Henri-Guillaume Krombach\n\nJean-Henri-Guillaume Krombach, also known as Johann Heinrich Wilhelm Krombach (16 September 1791 in Moers – 23 February 1881 in Luxembourg City) was a German-Luxembourgian pharmacist and botanist.\n\nHe initially worked as an assistant pharmacist in a number of German cities (Soest, Mainz and Aachen), then in 1815 relocated as a pharmacist to Diekirch, Luxembourg. From 1850 he served as a pharmacist in the nearby town of Ettelbruck.\n\nBeginning in 1830 he taught classes in natural sciences at schools in Diekirch and Ettelbruck. In 1871 he was named president of the Société de botanique du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg.\n\nIn 1875, he published \"Flore du grand-duché de Luxembourg. Plantes phanérogames\" (Flora of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg; phanerogams). He is the taxonomic authority of the subtribe Olyrinae (family Poaceae).\n"}
{"id": "20496686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20496686", "title": "Kamilo Beach", "text": "Kamilo Beach\n\nKamilo Beach (literally, \"the twisting\" or \"swirling currents\" in Hawaiian), is a beach located on the southeast coast of the island of Hawaii. It is known for its accumulation of plastic marine debris from the Great Pacific Garbage Patch.\n\nIn ancient times, Kamilo Beach was a location where Native Hawaiians would go to find large evergreen logs, drifted ashore from the Pacific Northwest, for building dugout canoes. It was also a location where those who were lost at sea might eventually wash ashore.\n\nKamilo Beach is approximately long, and is located on the remote southeast coast of the Kaū District on the island of Hawaii, at coordinates . There are no paved roads to the beach.\n\nThis beach, situated on a lower lava terrace, is a storm beach. It was formed by the deposit of large amounts of sand blown by prevailing winds.\n\nAt the point of Kamilo, waves have cut a large indentation, creating a variety of rocky points, ponds, and channels. Most of these are exposed during low tides, and are awash during high tides.\n\nThe debris is situated on the narrow, crescent-shaped strip of white sand, formed along the inland border of this area.\n\nThe beach is an accumulation zone for plastic trash. The debris is forced onto the beach by constant trade winds and converging ocean currents.\n\nThe backshore at Kamilo contains such vegetation as naupaka, milo, and ironwood.\n\nThe accumulated garbage that covers Kamilo Beach and an adjacent 2.8 miles (4.5 km) of shoreline consists of 90% plastic. Although some of the items comprising the trash are household products, the vast majority by weight are fishing related such as nets, rope, cones used to trap hagfish, spacers used in oyster farming, buoys, crates, and baskets. Much of the debris is made from plastic pellets, either pre-production nurdles or pellets created from larger plastic items breaking down into smaller pieces.\n\nWildlife in the area has suffered significant damage due to the on- and off-shore garbage. Fishing debris, such as discarded fishing nets and lines, drowns, strangles, and traps birds and marine mammals.\nSome types of plastic and their constituents, such as bisphenol A, bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, and polystyrene, leach carcinogenic or poisonous chemicals when they break down. Others absorb toxins such as DDT and polychlorinated biphenyls from their surroundings. These toxins are absorbed by animals when consumed.\n\nMultiple community-based cleanup efforts have taken place on Kamilo Beach in recent years. Prior to these efforts, the debris was high in some places. Most of the efforts to clean up marine debris from Kamilo Beach have been led by the Hawaii Wildlife Fund and their countless beach cleanup volunteers, however other groups, including Imi Pono No Ka 'Aina, Hawaii Rainbow Gatherings, \"CITO\" geocachers, Sierra Club Hawaii and Beach Environmental Awareness Campaign Hawaii have also helped coordinate occasional events. In 2003, the Hawaii Wildlife Fund organized 100 volunteers and removed over 50 tons (45 metric tonnes) of fishing nets and other marine debris from the beach. \n\nIn November 2007, Beach Environmental Awareness Campaign Hawaii volunteers removed more than 4 million pieces of plastic from Kamilo Beach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32960052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32960052", "title": "Kazakhstan National Respiratory Society", "text": "Kazakhstan National Respiratory Society\n\nThe Kazakhstan National Respiratory Society founded in 1985 works with the Central-Asian Pulmonologists Association and the Euro-Asian Respiratory Society. The society is maintained by the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan.\n\n"}
{"id": "38782767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38782767", "title": "Lake Rożnów", "text": "Lake Rożnów\n\nLake Rożnow () is an artificial lake, built in 1935–1941. It is located in southernmost part of Poland (Lesser Poland Voivodeship). The lake was built in the interwar period to regulate the Dunajec river flowing through the foothils of Beskid Mountains; and also, to provide electricity for the Rożnow Power Plant (\"Elektrownia Rożnow\") built into the dam. The lake took two years to fill which took place during World War II, from mid 1941 until 1943. It was named after the village of Rożnow.\n\nLake Rożnow was created not long before the invasion of Poland, after a dam had been built on the 80th kilometre distance of the Dunajec river. It lies among the hills of the Island Beskids, in Nowy Sącz County, some 12 kilometers north of Nowy Sącz. The valley of the Dunajec narrows here, turning into a canyon. The lake has the shape of an irregular letter S, with length ranging from 18 to 20 kilometres, and width of 1 app. kilometre (in few spots, it widens to no more than 2 kilometres). The depth of the reservoir reaches up to 30 metres near the dam. The total area of Rożnow Lake ranges from 16 to 20 square kilometres. The shoreline is marked by numerous peninsulas and bays, located at the mouths of several smaller rivers, which flow into the Dunajec. The lake is surrounded by forested hills, and its picturesque location makes it a very popular tourist center. Several tourisst villagers are located along Lake Rożnow: Tegoborze, Znamirowice, Zbyszyce, Bartkowa, Grodek nad Dunajcem, Tabaszowa, Rożnow.\n\nLake Rożnow has a small island, called Malpia Wyspa (Monkey Island). It used to be a hill with an ancient gord, which was turned into an island in 1942, after the Dunajec valley had been flooded. Currently, Monkey Island serves as a bird reserve, with as many 165 bird species living here.\n\nThe idea of construction of a dam on the Dunajec river in Rożnow was born after the disastrous 1934 flood in Poland. Due to lack of funds, the project was postponed until 1937, when first land purchases were made. The dam was built by a Polish-French company, which constructed a special settlement for the workers and engineers (the so-called French Colony), together with narrow gauge rail line to a stone quarry at Marcinkowice. Construction was interrupted after the Invasion of Poland, but as early as November 1939, German authorities of the General Government decided to continue it, using Polish plans. The dam together with the power plant was completed in 1942. It is built from concrete, with the height of 44 meters, and the length of 550 meters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55938078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55938078", "title": "Luisa Guidotti Mistrali", "text": "Luisa Guidotti Mistrali\n\nLuisa Guidotti Mistrali (16 May 1932 - 6 July 1979) was an Italian Roman Catholic who worked in the missions in Zimbabwe and was a consecrated member from the Women's Medical Missions Association. Guidotti tended to the ill in several hospitals across Zimbabwe and was even noted for taking care of Robert Mugabe's mother on one occasion. Her work saw hospitals expand to treat a greater number of patients and her work was appreciated nationwide which in part led to charges against her being dropped after she was accused of treating a guerilla which she had in fact done.\n\nHer beatification process opened in 1995 in Modena.\n\nLuisa Guidotti Mistrali was born in mid-1932 in Parma as the first of three children to Camillo Guidotti and Anna Mistrali. Her mother was a baroness from Parma and her father's side owned the Fabbrico castle in Reggio Emilia for four centuries.\n\nHer mother died from an incurable disease in 1947 and her father decided to relocate with his children to Modena where her maternal aunt Maria assumed care for the three children. Her education was spent in Modena and she received a religious formation from Catholic Action whom she grew close to around that time. In 1957 she had her first encounter with the Women's Medical Missions Association and later joined them as a consecrated member. Guidotti later enrolled in a medicine course and graduated in May 1960 in Parma. Her education then allowed her in 1962 to specialize in radiological treatment at the Ospedale di Santo Spirito in Sassia in Rome where she graduated from on 12 December 1962. Guidotti fostered a strong devotion to Saint Thomas More and chose him as her spiritual guide.\n\nOn 1 August 1966 she received the crucifix of the missionaries from the Archbishop of Modena Giuseppe Amici. Guidotti left for Chirundu on 9 August 1966 after having met with Pope Paul VI not long before that. Guidotti arrived in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) on 10 August and began working in a hospital in the north close to Zambia. Guidotti returned to her homeland in July 1967 and on 12 September at the Benedictine convent in Metten in Germany became part of the Association in full. In February 1969 she moved to the Regina Coeli Mission Hospital on the Mozambique border after having been working in a hospital in Salisbury since she first arrived in Africa. In December 1969 she joined the All Souls Mission north-east of the capital of Harare and later in 1975 returned to her homeland for another visit.\n\nOn 24 June 1976 a guerilla named Antony Nodo was injured during fierce fighting and came to the hospital in need of urgent medical attention. Guidotti arranged for both a diagnosis and treatment for Nodo but was arrested for this on 28 June after the government alleged that she was aiding and abetting guerilla forces. The Red Cross leapt to her defense requesting her immediate release. Guidotti was acquitted of these charges on 24 August and returned to her hospital to work acting as if the arrest never occurred; but she exercised due diligence so as to ensure she was not arrested and removed from her work once again. But her offering medical treatment to freedom fighters irritated the Rhodesian forces. In 1978 she tended to the severe hypertensive crisis of Robert Mugabe's mother.\n\nDuring dawn on 6 July 1979 she set off in a Red Cross ambulance van to go and operate on a pregnant woman but was shot dead at about 10:00am. En route government forces stopped the van at a checkpoint at which point bursts of gunfire from machine guns came from both sides of the road from two soldiers which struck her: it severed her femoral artery and caused her to die from excessive bleeding. Guidotti was going from the hospital to the pregnant woman's home when she was forced to stop at a checkpoint. Soldiers were there since one of their own had been shot dead there. Guidotti saw no road blocks so waited and then thought she could leave so drove off and turned right to get to the woman's home. It was then that the commandant gave the order to fire with three shots from one soldier and one from another. Guidotti was bleeding in her seat and said to them: \"I am a doctor. Why are you shooting me?\" The Archbishop of Harare Patrick Fani Chakaipa celebrated her funeral Mass on 12 July though her remains were later relocated to the Modena Cathedral on 23 October 1988.\n\nThe All Souls' Mission Hospital became known as the Luisa Guidotti Hospital later in 1983. Robert Mugabe in 1983 unveiled a plaque dedicated to her at the hospital and was present with his mother whom Guidotti had treated back in 1978. Mugabe also related in his remarks how he had met with Guidotti once in 1974 and was left impressed with her and her work.\n\nThe beatification process opened in Modena after the forum for the diocesan process was transferred in 1995 from Harare to Modena. The official commencement for the cause came under Pope John Paul II on 21 April 1995 after she had been titled as a Servant of God and the Congregation for the Causes of Saints declared the \"nihil obstat\" to the cause meaning there were no objections for its initiation. The diocesan process was inaugurated in Modena at the cathedral on 20 October 1996 and concluded on 23 November 2013 in the same location.\n\nThe current postulator for this cause is the Dominican priest Francesco Maria Ricci.\n\n"}
{"id": "10409545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10409545", "title": "Mercy San Juan Medical Center", "text": "Mercy San Juan Medical Center\n\nMercy San Juan Medical Center is a not-for-profit hospital located in Carmichael, serving the areas of north Sacramento County and south Placer County. It is home to Sacramento’s first Comprehensive Stroke Center. \n\nA six-story patient tower opened in December 2009, adding 110 beds.\n\n"}
{"id": "45341834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45341834", "title": "Mesomelia", "text": "Mesomelia\n\nMesomelia refers to conditions in which the middle parts of limbs are disproportionately short. When applied to skeletal dysplasias, mesomelic dwarfism describes generalised shortening of the forearms and lower legs. This is in contrast to rhizomelic dwarfism in which the upper portions of limbs are short such as in achondroplasia.\n\nForms of mesomelic dwarfism currently described include:\n"}
{"id": "2956569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2956569", "title": "Mission Vuelta al Campo", "text": "Mission Vuelta al Campo\n\nMission Vuelta al Campo (\"Return to the Countryside\"; implementation announced in mid-2005) is one of the Bolivarian Missions (a series of anti-poverty and social welfare programs) implemented by former Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez. Mission Vuelta al Campo seeks to encourage impoverished and unemployed urban Venezuelans to willingly return to the countryside.\n\nPrior to the Chávez administration, Venezuela's rural areas have seen substantial economic disinvestment, depopulation, and abandonment ever since oil wealth discoveries and extraction commenced in the early 20th century; as a consequence Venezuela now has an urbanization rate of more than 85% (far higher than the average for both Latin America and the Third World and is, despite its vast tracts of highly fertile soil and arable land, a net food importer. The \"Ley de Tierras\" — \"Law of the Lands\" — was passed by presidential decree in November 2001; it included the creation of a \"Plan Zamora\" to implement land reforms, including redistribution, in Venezuelan agriculture. Underutilized or unused private corporate and agricultural estates would now be subject to expropriation after fair-market compensation was paid to the owners. Inheritable, inalienable, and at times communal land grants were also made to small farmers and farmer's collectives. The rationale given for this program was that it would provide incentives for the eventual and gradual repopulation of the countryside and provide \"food security\" for the country by lessening the present dependence on foreign imports. There are three types of land that may be distributed under the program:\nTo date, the Chávez government has only distributed the first two types of land.\n\nMission Vuelta al Campo fits into this context by seeking to facilitate the willing migration of urban residents back to the countryside in order to receive the benefits of these redistributions. The Chávez government desires that, with increased small-scale farming and ranching by formerly poor, mostly slum-dwelling Venezuelans, both increased economic opportunities of the poor as well as the food sovereignty of Venezuela may be secured.\n\n"}
{"id": "3641274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3641274", "title": "Multiple Sleep Latency Test", "text": "Multiple Sleep Latency Test\n\nThe Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT) is a sleep disorder diagnostic tool. It is used to measure the time elapsed from the start of a daytime nap period to the first signs of sleep, called sleep latency. The test is based on the idea that the sleepier people are, the faster they will fall asleep.\n\nThe MSLT is used extensively to test for narcolepsy, to distinguish between physical tiredness and true excessive daytime sleepiness, or to assess whether treatments for breathing disorders are working. Its main purpose is to discover how readily a person will fall asleep in a conducive setting, how consistent or variable this is, and the way they fall asleep in terms of REM sleep and other brain patterns. This can be used to identify and differentiate between various sleep problems.\n\nThe test consists of four or five 20-minute nap opportunities set two hours apart, often following an overnight sleep study. During the test, data such as the patient's brain waves, EEG, muscle activity, and eye movements are monitored and recorded. The entire test normally takes about 7 hours during the course of a day.\n\nThe Multiple Sleep Latency Test was created in 1977 by sleep pioneers William C. Dement and Mary Carskadon. It developed out of repeating a project done in 1970 by Dr. Dement called the 90-minute day. They informally called the 0–5 minute range the \"twilight zone\" due to its indication of extreme physical and mental impairment.\n\nPreparation: On the day of the test the patient is asked not to consume any stimulants, such as tea, coffee, colas, and chocolate.\n\nA clinical neurophysiologist, neurologist or sleep specialist will review the results and inform the patient or the patient's primary care physician of the interpretation of the test result in the context of the clinical problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "65909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65909", "title": "Neonatal heel prick", "text": "Neonatal heel prick\n\nThe neonatal heel prick is a blood collection procedure done on newborns. It consists of making a pinprick puncture in one heel of the newborn to collect their blood. This technique is used frequently as the main way to collect blood from neonates. Other techniques include venous or arterial needle sticks, cord blood sampling, or umbilical line collection. This technique is often utilized for the Guthrie test, where it is used to soaking the blood into pre-printed collection cards known as Guthrie cards.\n\nThe classical Guthrie test is named after Robert Guthrie, an American bacteriologist and physician who devised it in 1962. The test has been widely used throughout North America and Europe as one of the core newborn screening tests since the late 1960s. The test was initially a bacterial inhibition assay, but is gradually being replaced in many areas by newer techniques such as tandem mass spectrometry that can detect a wider variety of congenital diseases.\n\nThe blood samples can be used for a variety of metabolic test to detect genetic conditions, including:\n\nThe test uses the growth of a strain of bacteria on a specially-prepared agar plate as a sign for the presence of high levels of phenylalanine, phenylpyruvate, and/or phenyllactate. The compound B-2-thienylalanine will inhibit the growth of the bacterium \"Bacillus subtilis\" (ATCC 6051) on minimal culture media. If phenylalanine, phenylpyruvate, and/or phenyllactate is added to the medium, then growth is restored. Such compounds will be present in excess in the blood or urine of patients with PKU. If a suitably-prepared sample of blood or urine is applied to the seeded agar plate, the growth of the bacteria in the test will be a positive indicator for PKU in the patient.\n\nTo prepare the sample for application, a small amount of blood (from a heel puncture, for example) or urine (from a diaper, for example) is applied to a piece of filter paper. Then a small disc is punched from the center of the spot of blood or urine, and the disc applied to the surface of a seeded, minimal-medium agar plate that contains added beta-2-thienylalanine. If the sample contains phenylalanine, phenylpyruvate, and/or phenyllactate then these compounds will diffuse into the agar medium. If their concentrations are high enough (as with the excess levels seen with PKU), bacteria will grow under the disc, but not elsewhere. Generally an overnight incubation is enough to determine whether phenylalanine, phenylpyruvate, and/or phenyllactate are present in unusual concentrations in blood or urine.\n\nThe blood spot sample should be taken between 48 and 72 hours of age for\nall babies regardless of medical condition, milk feeding\nand prematurity. For the purpose of screening, date\nof birth is day 0 (some IT systems record date of birth\nas day 1). False positives and false negatives can sometimes occur when the screening tests are performed before 48 hours.\n\nWith genetic tests becoming more common, a wide variety of tests may use the blood drawn by this method. Many neonatal units (SCBUs) now use this method to carry out the daily blood tests (blood count, electrolytes) required to check the progress of ill neonates.\n\nIn Ireland, a controversy emerged in 2012 whereby a number of hospitals retained heel prick test cards and thereby a DNA database with over a million samples from 1984, without consent or notification of parents. This resulted in a ten-year rolling destruction cycle being introduced. Similar practices exist in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and several states of the United States. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3065711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3065711", "title": "Organic feeding disorders", "text": "Organic feeding disorders\n\nOrganic feeding disorders are created when there are changes in an organism which directly or indirectly affect the organism's need to survive, or the need for nourishment. For example, when someone becomes ill, their body is naturally not as hungry as it was before. This can also occur if a person's food intake is reduced; over time they will not want to eat as much and will reduce their efforts towards seeking out nourishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "42330181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42330181", "title": "Osteopaths Registration Board", "text": "Osteopaths Registration Board\n\nThe Osteopathy Board of Australia regulates osteopathy in Australia. The members of its inaugural board were appointed for three years by the Australian Health Workforce Ministerial Council on 31 August 2009.\n\nThe functions of the Osteopathy Board of Australia include:\n\n\nIts functions are supported by Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA).\n"}
{"id": "46393834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46393834", "title": "Overwork", "text": "Overwork\n\nOverwork is the expression used to define the cause of working too hard, too much, or too long. It can be also related to the act of working beyond one's strength or capacity, causing physical and/or mental distress in the process.\n\nCompulsory, mandatory, or forced overtime is usually defined as hours worked in excess of forty hours per week “that the employer makes compulsory with the threat of job loss or the threat of other reprisals such as demotion or assignment to unattractive tasks or work shifts.\"\n\nVoluntary overtime is work which the employer may ask the worker to do but which the worker is not required to work unless he agrees at the time to do so.\n\nCompulsory overwork is that where the individual has no choice but to work more than their capacity. In other words, compulsory overwork is the lack of control that workers exercise over the boundary between work time and private time.\n\nForced overtime, heavy workloads, and frenetic work paces give rise to debilitating repetitive stress injuries, on-the-job accidents, over-exposure to toxic substances, and other dangerous work conditions. Nevertheless, some studies are beginning to show the costs of compulsory overwork. Reg Williams and Patricia Strasser, professors of nursing at the University of Michigan, estimated in the journal of the American Association of Occupational Health Nurses that the total cost of depression at work was as high as $44 billion. They pointed out that healthcare workers have focused much attention on the workplace risk factors for heart disease, cancer, obesity, and other illnesses, but little emphasis on the risk factors for depression, stress, negative changes in personal life, and difficulties in interpersonal relationships.\n\nAnnual average work hours for Americans have risen from 1,679 in 1973 to 1,878 in 2000. This represents an increase of 199 hours—or approximately five additional weeks of work per year. This total work effort represents an average of nine weeks more than European workers. Therefore, it is within this logic of working more to gain more that workers are living a very hectic and tiring time to provide their families. The result in reality is an excess that does not often translate into high salaries. There are categories of workers where the work and the environments are unhealthy turning the most vulnerable workers and sentenced to fatigue and even living less.\n\nThe emotional impacts of overwork can vary, depending on the amount of work, levels of pressure and competition in the work space. Employees who worry about not getting work finished and keeping up a fast pace can feel like they are drowning in their workload, a feeling that manifests itself in chronic stress and anxiety, which can hebetate the spirit and create tension in personal and work relationships. The behavior continues even if the worker becomes aware that it is personally harmful — even harmful to the quality of the work. The stress that goes along with working too much has been shown to lead to substance abuse, sleep disorders, anxiety and ultimately to physical problems.\n\nOne of the key indicators that an individual is being overworked, and not merely challenged, is if work-related stress begins to take a toll on their physical health and general lifestyle. It is easy to distinguish different types of physical symptoms, such as getting sick frequently due to a weakened immune system, depression and insomnia. All these symptoms can cause more fatigue-related errors at work and affect their personal lives.\n\nAccording to the Mayo Clinic, other physical symptoms may include headache, neck pain, lower back pain, depression, changes to appetite and chronic fatigue.\n\nCompulsory overtime and overwork present a growing \"convergence\" between workers regardless of their occupation, income, education, race, gender, or citizenship. For example, in the United States, immigrants and other low-wage workers toil excessive hours in traditional sweatshops, such as garment factories, restaurants and other industry sectors. At the same time, exposés of \"white-collar\" and \"electronic\" sweatshops debunk the glamour of high-tech employment revealing large numbers of higher-paid skilled workers who work upwards of seventy to ninety hours a week under increasingly autocratic conditions.\n\nWith the steep rise in annual work hours for individuals and families, more than half of American workers report feeling overworked, overwhelmed by the amount of work they have to do, and/or lacking in time to reflect upon the work they are doing. Overwork is attributable to several trends. First, the climb in annual family work hours since 1979 has coincided with an era of stagnant and falling wages. Annual family work hours have swelled primarily because unprecedented numbers of women have entered the full-time workforce, and those who were already in the workforce have taken on increased hours of work to boost family incomes. Without the increased work hours of women, lower-and middle-income families would have seen their incomes fall or at best remain stagnant. African American and Latino families, whose average hours of work grew faster than white families throughout the 1980s and 1990s, would have been especially hard hit.\n\nMany immigrant workers are faced with the stark choice of complying with required overtime, increased workloads, and frenetic work paces, or being fired. Workers are pressured to compete with one another for longer hours to keep their jobs and avoid being replaced by workers who are more compliant with employer demands. Undocumented immigrant workers are particularly susceptible to demands for excessive hours. The threat of deportation, along with the criminalization of their work status, creates a climate of vulnerability that unscrupulous employers use to cheapen labor and extract more work.\n\nThe problem of overwork in Japan has become so acute that the term \"karōshi\", literally means ‘death by overwork’ was coined a few years ago. The government estimates that 200 people die from \"karōshi\" every year because of heart attacks or cerebral hemorrhages due to long hours spent at the work place. However, \"karōshi\" does not include deaths from mental depression or suicides. If this was the case, the number of work related deaths would dramatically increase. Data compiled by the Japanese government shows that 22 percent of the public work more than 49 hours a week, compared to 11 percent of French and Germans.\n\nWorkers typically used less than half of their leave allowance in a year, according to a survey by the labour ministry which found that in 2013 employees took only nine of their 18.5 days average entitlement. A separate poll showed that one in every six workers took no paid holidays at all in 2013. In early discussions, employer groups proposed limiting the number of compulsory paid holidays to three days, while unions called for eight.\n\nIn 2016, the Japanese government finally decided to do something about the endemic culture of overwork, which has been blamed not just on a growing number of deaths, but also the country's critically low birth rate and declining productivity. Although Japan is notorious for hard work, it's equally known for inefficiency and bureaucracy. Workers sit around in the name of team spirit, despite questionable performance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "462421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462421", "title": "Oxygen toxicity", "text": "Oxygen toxicity\n\nOxygen toxicity is a condition resulting from the harmful effects of breathing molecular oxygen () at increased partial pressures. It is also known as oxygen toxicity syndrome, oxygen intoxication, and oxygen poisoning. Severe cases can result in cell damage and death, with effects most often seen in the central nervous system, lungs, and eyes. Historically, the central nervous system condition was called the \"Paul Bert effect\", and the pulmonary condition the \"Lorrain Smith effect\", after the researchers who pioneered the discoveries and descriptions in the late 19th century. Oxygen toxicity is a concern for underwater divers, those on high concentrations of supplemental oxygen (particularly premature babies), and those undergoing hyperbaric oxygen therapy.\n\nThe result of breathing increased partial pressures of oxygen is hyperoxia, an excess of oxygen in body tissues. The body is affected in different ways depending on the type of exposure. Central nervous system toxicity is caused by short exposure to high partial pressures of oxygen at greater than atmospheric pressure. Pulmonary and ocular toxicity result from longer exposure to increased oxygen levels at normal pressure. Symptoms may include disorientation, breathing problems, and vision changes such as myopia. Prolonged exposure to above-normal oxygen partial pressures, or shorter exposures to very high partial pressures, can cause oxidative damage to cell membranes, collapse of the alveoli in the lungs, retinal detachment, and seizures. Oxygen toxicity is managed by reducing the exposure to increased oxygen levels. Studies show that, in the long term, a robust recovery from most types of oxygen toxicity is possible.\n\nProtocols for avoidance of the effects of hyperoxia exist in fields where oxygen is breathed at higher-than-normal partial pressures, including underwater diving using compressed breathing gases, hyperbaric medicine, neonatal care and human spaceflight. These protocols have resulted in the increasing rarity of seizures due to oxygen toxicity, with pulmonary and ocular damage being mainly confined to the problems of managing premature infants.\n\nIn recent years, oxygen has become available for recreational use in oxygen bars. The US Food and Drug Administration has warned those suffering from problems such as heart or lung disease not to use oxygen bars. Scuba divers use breathing gases containing up to 100% oxygen, and should have specific training in using such gases.\n\nThe effects of oxygen toxicity may be classified by the organs affected, producing three principal forms:\n\n\nCentral nervous system oxygen toxicity can cause seizures, brief periods of rigidity followed by convulsions and unconsciousness, and is of concern to divers who encounter greater than atmospheric pressures. Pulmonary oxygen toxicity results in damage to the lungs, causing pain and difficulty in breathing. Oxidative damage to the eye may lead to myopia or partial detachment of the retina. Pulmonary and ocular damage are most likely to occur when supplemental oxygen is administered as part of a treatment, particularly to newborn infants, but are also a concern during hyperbaric oxygen therapy.\n\nOxidative damage may occur in any cell in the body but the effects on the three most susceptible organs will be the primary concern. It may also be implicated in damage to red blood cells (haemolysis), the liver, heart, endocrine glands (adrenal glands, gonads, and thyroid), or kidneys, and general damage to cells.\n\nIn unusual circumstances, effects on other tissues may be observed: it is suspected that during spaceflight, high oxygen concentrations may contribute to bone damage. Hyperoxia can also indirectly cause carbon dioxide narcosis in patients with lung ailments such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or with central respiratory depression. Hyperventilation of atmospheric air at atmospheric pressures does not cause oxygen toxicity, because sea-level air has a partial pressure of oxygen of whereas toxicity does not occur below .\n\nCentral nervous system oxygen toxicity manifests as symptoms such as visual changes (especially tunnel vision), ringing in the ears (tinnitus), nausea, twitching (especially of the face), behavioural changes (irritability, anxiety, confusion), and dizziness. This may be followed by a tonic–clonic seizure consisting of two phases: intense muscle contraction occurs for several seconds (tonic phase); followed by rapid spasms of alternate muscle relaxation and contraction producing convulsive jerking (clonic phase). The seizure ends with a period of unconsciousness (the postictal state). The onset of seizure depends upon the partial pressure of oxygen in the breathing gas and exposure duration. However, exposure time before onset is unpredictable, as tests have shown a wide variation, both amongst individuals, and in the same individual from day to day. In addition, many external factors, such as underwater immersion, exposure to cold, and exercise will decrease the time to onset of central nervous system symptoms. Decrease of tolerance is closely linked to retention of carbon dioxide. Other factors, such as darkness and caffeine, increase tolerance in test animals, but these effects have not been proven in humans.\n\nPulmonary toxicity symptoms result from an inflammation that starts in the airways leading to the lungs and then spreads into the lungs (tracheobronchial tree). The symptoms appear in the upper chest region (substernal and carinal regions). This begins as a mild tickle on inhalation and progresses to frequent coughing. If breathing increased partial pressures of oxygen continues, patients experience a mild burning on inhalation along with uncontrollable coughing and occasional shortness of breath (dyspnoea). Physical findings related to pulmonary toxicity have included bubbling sounds heard through a stethoscope (bubbling rales), fever, and increased blood flow to the lining of the nose (hyperaemia of the nasal mucosa). X-rays of the lungs show little change in the short term, but extended exposure leads to increasing diffuse shadowing throughout both lungs. Pulmonary function measurements are reduced, as noted by a reduction in the amount of air that the lungs can hold (vital capacity) and changes in expiratory function and lung elasticity. Tests in animals have indicated a variation in tolerance similar to that found in central nervous system toxicity, as well as significant variations between species. When the exposure to oxygen above is intermittent, it permits the lungs to recover and delays the onset of toxicity.\n\nIn premature babies, signs of damage to the eye (retinopathy of prematurity, or ROP) are observed via an ophthalmoscope as a demarcation between the vascularised and non-vascularised regions of an infant's retina. The degree of this demarcation is used to designate four stages: (I) the demarcation is a line; (II) the demarcation becomes a ridge; (III) growth of new blood vessels occurs around the ridge; (IV) the retina begins to detach from the inner wall of the eye (choroid).\n\nOxygen toxicity is caused by exposure to oxygen at partial pressures greater than those to which the body is normally exposed. This occurs in three principal settings: underwater diving, hyperbaric oxygen therapy, and the provision of supplemental oxygen, particularly to premature infants. In each case, the risk factors are markedly different.\n\nExposures, from minutes to a few hours, to partial pressures of oxygen above —about eight times normal atmospheric partial pressure—are usually associated with central nervous system oxygen toxicity and are most likely to occur among patients undergoing hyperbaric oxygen therapy and divers. Since sea level atmospheric pressure is about , central nervous system toxicity can only occur under hyperbaric conditions, where ambient pressure is above normal. Divers breathing air at depths beyond face an increasing risk of an oxygen toxicity \"hit\" (seizure). Divers breathing a gas mixture enriched with oxygen, such as nitrox, can similarly suffer a seizure at shallower depths, should they descend below the maximum operating depth allowed for the mixture.\n\nThe lungs and the remainder of the respiratory tract are exposed to the highest concentration of oxygen in the human body and are therefore the first organs to show toxicity. Pulmonary toxicity occurs only with exposure to partial pressures of oxygen greater than , corresponding to an oxygen fraction of 50% at normal atmospheric pressure. The earliest signs of pulmonary toxicity begin with evidence of tracheobronchitis, or inflammation of the upper airways, after an asymptomatic period between 4 and 22 hours at greater than 95% oxygen, with some studies suggesting symptoms usually begin after approximately 14 hours at this level of oxygen.\n\nAt partial pressures of oxygen of —100% oxygen at 2 to 3 times atmospheric pressure—these symptoms may begin as early as 3 hours after exposure to oxygen. Experiments on rats breathing oxygen at pressures between suggest that pulmonary manifestations of oxygen toxicity may not be the same for normobaric conditions as they are for hyperbaric conditions. Evidence of decline in lung function as measured by pulmonary function testing can occur as quickly as 24 hours of continuous exposure to 100% oxygen, with evidence of diffuse alveolar damage and the onset of acute respiratory distress syndrome usually occurring after 48 hours on 100% oxygen. Breathing 100% oxygen also eventually leads to collapse of the alveoli (atelectasis), while—at the same partial pressure of oxygen—the presence of significant partial pressures of inert gases, typically nitrogen, will prevent this effect.\n\nPreterm newborns are known to be at higher risk for bronchopulmonary dysplasia with extended exposure to high concentrations of oxygen. Other groups at higher risk for oxygen toxicity are patients on mechanical ventilation with exposure to levels of oxygen greater than 50%, and patients exposed to chemicals that increase risk for oxygen toxicity such the chemotherapeutic agent bleomycin. Therefore, current guidelines for patients on mechanical ventilation in intensive care recommends keeping oxygen concentration less than 60%. Likewise, divers who undergo treatment of decompression sickness are at increased risk of oxygen toxicity as treatment entails exposure to long periods of oxygen breathing under hyperbaric conditions, in addition to any oxygen exposure during the dive.\n\nProlonged exposure to high inspired fractions of oxygen causes damage to the retina. Damage to the developing eye of infants exposed to high oxygen fraction at normal pressure has a different mechanism and effect from the eye damage experienced by adult divers under hyperbaric conditions. Hyperoxia may be a contributing factor for the disorder called retrolental fibroplasia or retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) in infants. In preterm infants, the retina is often not fully vascularised. Retinopathy of prematurity occurs when the development of the retinal vasculature is arrested and then proceeds abnormally. Associated with the growth of these new vessels is fibrous tissue (scar tissue) that may contract to cause retinal detachment. Supplemental oxygen exposure, while a risk factor, is not the main risk factor for development of this disease. Restricting supplemental oxygen use does not necessarily reduce the rate of retinopathy of prematurity, and may raise the risk of hypoxia-related systemic complications.\n\nHyperoxic myopia has occurred in closed circuit oxygen rebreather divers with prolonged exposures. It also occurs frequently in those undergoing repeated hyperbaric oxygen therapy. This is due to an increase in the refractive power of the lens, since axial length and keratometry readings do not reveal a corneal or length basis for a myopic shift. It is usually reversible with time.\n\nThe biochemical basis for the toxicity of oxygen is the partial reduction of oxygen by one or two electrons to form reactive oxygen species, which are natural by-products of the normal metabolism of oxygen and have important roles in cell signalling. One species produced by the body, the superoxide anion (), is possibly involved in iron acquisition. Higher than normal concentrations of oxygen lead to increased levels of reactive oxygen species. Oxygen is necessary for cell metabolism, and the blood supplies it to all parts of the body. When oxygen is breathed at high partial pressures, a hyperoxic condition will rapidly spread, with the most vascularised tissues being most vulnerable. During times of environmental stress, levels of reactive oxygen species can increase dramatically, which can damage cell structures and produce oxidative stress.\n\nWhile all the reaction mechanisms of these species within the body are not yet fully understood, one of the most reactive products of oxidative stress is the hydroxyl radical (·OH), which can initiate a damaging chain reaction of lipid peroxidation in the unsaturated lipids within cell membranes. High concentrations of oxygen also increase the formation of other free radicals, such as nitric oxide, peroxynitrite, and trioxidane, which harm DNA and other biomolecules. Although the body has many antioxidant systems such as glutathione that guard against oxidative stress, these systems are eventually overwhelmed at very high concentrations of free oxygen, and the rate of cell damage exceeds the capacity of the systems that prevent or repair it. Cell damage and cell death then result.\n\nDiagnosis of central nervous system oxygen toxicity in divers prior to seizure is difficult as the symptoms of visual disturbance, ear problems, dizziness, confusion and nausea can be due to many factors common to the underwater environment such as narcosis, congestion and coldness. However, these symptoms may be helpful in diagnosing the first stages of oxygen toxicity in patients undergoing hyperbaric oxygen therapy. In either case, unless there is a prior history of epilepsy or tests indicate hypoglycaemia, a seizure occurring in the setting of breathing oxygen at partial pressures greater than suggests a diagnosis of oxygen toxicity.\n\nDiagnosis of bronchopulmonary dysplasia in newborn infants with breathing difficulties is difficult in the first few weeks. However, if the infant's breathing does not improve during this time, blood tests and x-rays may be used to confirm bronchopulmonary dysplasia. In addition, an echocardiogram can help to eliminate other possible causes such as congenital heart defects or pulmonary arterial hypertension.\n\nThe diagnosis of retinopathy of prematurity in infants is typically suggested by the clinical setting. Prematurity, low birth weight and a history of oxygen exposure are the principal indicators, while no hereditary factors have been shown to yield a pattern.\n\nThe prevention of oxygen toxicity depends entirely on the setting. Both underwater and in space, proper precautions can eliminate the most pernicious effects. Premature infants commonly require supplemental oxygen to treat complications of preterm birth. In this case prevention of bronchopulmonary dysplasia and retinopathy of prematurity must be carried out without compromising a supply of oxygen adequate to preserve the infant's life.\n\nOxygen toxicity is a catastrophic hazard in diving, because a seizure results in near certain death by drowning. The seizure may occur suddenly and with no warning symptoms. The effects are sudden convulsions and unconsciousness, during which victims can lose their regulator and drown. One of the advantages of a full-face diving mask is prevention of regulator loss in the event of a seizure. As there is an increased risk of central nervous system oxygen toxicity on deep dives, long dives and dives where oxygen-rich breathing gases are used, divers are taught to calculate a maximum operating depth for oxygen-rich breathing gases, and cylinders containing such mixtures must be clearly marked with that depth.\n\nIn some diver training courses for these types of diving, divers are taught to plan and monitor what is called the \"oxygen clock\" of their dives. This is a notional alarm clock, which ticks more quickly at increased oxygen pressure and is set to activate at the maximum single exposure limit recommended in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Diving Manual. For the following partial pressures of oxygen the limits are: 45 minutes at , 120 minutes at , 150 minutes at , 180 minutes at and 210 minutes at , but it is impossible to predict with any reliability whether or when toxicity symptoms will occur. Many nitrox-capable dive computers calculate an oxygen loading and can track it across multiple dives. The aim is to avoid activating the alarm by reducing the partial pressure of oxygen in the breathing gas or by reducing the time spent breathing gas of greater oxygen partial pressure. As the partial pressure of oxygen increases with the fraction of oxygen in the breathing gas and the depth of the dive, the diver obtains more time on the oxygen clock by diving at a shallower depth, by breathing a less oxygen-rich gas, or by shortening the duration of exposure to oxygen-rich gases.\n\nDiving below on air would expose a diver to increasing danger of oxygen toxicity as the partial pressure of oxygen exceeds , so a gas mixture must be used which contains less than 21% oxygen (a hypoxic mixture). Increasing the proportion of nitrogen is not viable, since it would produce a strongly narcotic mixture. However, helium is not narcotic, and a usable mixture may be blended either by completely replacing nitrogen with helium (the resulting mix is called heliox), or by replacing part of the nitrogen with helium, producing a trimix.\n\nPulmonary oxygen toxicity is an entirely avoidable event while diving. The limited duration and naturally intermittent nature of most diving makes this a relatively rare (and even then, reversible) complication for divers. Established guidelines enable divers to calculate when they are at risk of pulmonary toxicity.\n\nThe presence of a fever or a history of seizure is a relative contraindication to hyperbaric oxygen treatment. The schedules used for treatment of decompression illness allow for periods of breathing air rather than 100% oxygen (oxygen breaks) to reduce the chance of seizure or lung damage. The U.S. Navy uses treatment tables based on periods alternating between 100% oxygen and air. For example, USN table 6 requires 75 minutes (three periods of 20 minutes oxygen/5 minutes air) at an ambient pressure of , equivalent to a depth of . This is followed by a slow reduction in pressure to over 30 minutes on oxygen. The patient then remains at that pressure for a further 150 minutes, consisting of two periods of 15 minutes air/60 minutes oxygen, before the pressure is reduced to atmospheric over 30 minutes on oxygen.\n\nVitamin E and selenium were proposed and later rejected as a potential method of protection against pulmonary oxygen toxicity. There is however some experimental evidence in rats that vitamin E and selenium aid in preventing \"in vivo\" lipid peroxidation and free radical damage, and therefore prevent retinal changes following repetitive hyperbaric oxygen exposures.\n\nBronchopulmonary dysplasia is reversible in the early stages by use of break periods on lower pressures of oxygen, but it may eventually result in irreversible lung injury if allowed to progress to severe damage. One or two days of exposure without oxygen breaks are needed to cause such damage.\n\nRetinopathy of prematurity is largely preventable by screening. Current guidelines require that all babies of less than 32 weeks gestational age or having a birth weight less than should be screened for retinopathy of prematurity at least every two weeks. The \"National Cooperative Study\" in 1954 showed a causal link between supplemental oxygen and retinopathy of prematurity, but subsequent curtailment of supplemental oxygen caused an increase in infant mortality. To balance the risks of hypoxia and retinopathy of prematurity, modern protocols now require monitoring of blood oxygen levels in premature infants receiving oxygen.\n\nIn low-pressure environments oxygen toxicity may be avoided since the toxicity is caused by high partial pressure of oxygen, not merely by high oxygen fraction. This is illustrated by modern pure oxygen use in spacesuits, which must operate at low pressure (also historically, very high percentage oxygen and lower than normal atmospheric pressure was used in early spacecraft, for example, the Gemini and Apollo spacecraft). In such applications as extra-vehicular activity, high-fraction oxygen is non-toxic, even at breathing mixture fractions approaching 100%, because the oxygen partial pressure is not allowed to chronically exceed .\n\nDuring hyperbaric oxygen therapy, the patient will usually breathe 100% oxygen from a mask while inside a hyperbaric chamber pressurised with air to about . Seizures during the therapy are managed by removing the mask from the patient, thereby dropping the partial pressure of oxygen inspired below .\n\nA seizure underwater requires that the diver be brought to the surface as soon as practicable. Although for many years the recommendation has been not to raise the diver during the seizure itself, owing to the danger of arterial gas embolism (AGE), there is some evidence that the glottis does not fully obstruct the airway. This has led to the current recommendation by the Diving Committee of the Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society that a diver should be raised during the seizure's clonic (convulsive) phase if the regulator is not in the diver's mouth – as the danger of drowning is then greater than that of AGE – but the ascent should be delayed until the end of the clonic phase otherwise. Rescuers ensure that their own safety is not compromised during the convulsive phase. They then ensure that where the victim's air supply is established it is maintained, and carry out a controlled buoyant lift. Lifting an unconscious body is taught by most diver training agencies. Upon reaching the surface, emergency services are always contacted as there is a possibility of further complications requiring medical attention. The U.S. Navy has procedures for completing the decompression stops where a recompression chamber is not immediately available.\n\nThe occurrence of symptoms of bronchopulmonary dysplasia or acute respiratory distress syndrome is treated by lowering the fraction of oxygen administered, along with a reduction in the periods of exposure and an increase in the break periods where normal air is supplied. Where supplemental oxygen is required for treatment of another disease (particularly in infants), a ventilator may be needed to ensure that the lung tissue remains inflated. Reductions in pressure and exposure will be made progressively, and medications such as bronchodilators and pulmonary surfactants may be used.\n\nRetinopathy of prematurity may regress spontaneously, but should the disease progress beyond a threshold (defined as five contiguous or eight cumulative hours of stage 3 retinopathy of prematurity), both cryosurgery and laser surgery have been shown to reduce the risk of blindness as an outcome. Where the disease has progressed further, techniques such as scleral buckling and vitrectomy surgery may assist in re-attaching the retina.\n\nAlthough the convulsions caused by central nervous system oxygen toxicity may lead to incidental injury to the victim, it remained uncertain for many years whether damage to the nervous system following the seizure could occur and several studies searched for evidence of such damage. An overview of these studies by Bitterman in 2004 concluded that following removal of breathing gas containing high fractions of oxygen, no long-term neurological damage from the seizure remains.\n\nThe majority of infants who have survived following an incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia will eventually recover near-normal lung function, since lungs continue to grow during the first 5–7 years and the damage caused by bronchopulmonary dysplasia is to some extent reversible (even in adults). However, they are likely to be more susceptible to respiratory infections for the rest of their lives and the severity of later infections is often greater than that in their peers.\n\nRetinopathy of prematurity (ROP) in infants frequently regresses without intervention and eyesight may be normal in later years. Where the disease has progressed to the stages requiring surgery, the outcomes are generally good for the treatment of stage 3 ROP, but are much worse for the later stages. Although surgery is usually successful in restoring the anatomy of the eye, damage to the nervous system by the progression of the disease leads to comparatively poorer results in restoring vision. The presence of other complicating diseases also reduces the likelihood of a favourable outcome.\n\nThe incidence of central nervous system toxicity among divers has decreased since the Second World War, as protocols have developed to limit exposure and partial pressure of oxygen inspired. In 1947, Donald recommended limiting the depth allowed for breathing pure oxygen to , which equates to an oxygen partial pressure of . Over time this limit has been reduced, until today a limit of during a recreational dive and during shallow decompression stops is generally recommended. Oxygen toxicity has now become a rare occurrence other than when caused by equipment malfunction and human error. Historically, the U.S. Navy has refined its Navy Diving Manual Tables to reduce oxygen toxicity incidents. Between 1995 and 1999, reports showed 405 surface-supported dives using the helium–oxygen tables; of these, oxygen toxicity symptoms were observed on 6 dives (1.5%). As a result, the U.S. Navy in 2000 modified the schedules and conducted field tests of 150 dives, none of which produced symptoms of oxygen toxicity. Revised tables were published in 2001.\n\nThe variability in tolerance and other variable factors such as workload have resulted in the U.S. Navy abandoning screening for oxygen tolerance. Of the 6,250 oxygen-tolerance tests performed between 1976 and 1997, only 6 episodes of oxygen toxicity were observed (0.1%).\n\nCentral nervous system oxygen toxicity among patients undergoing hyperbaric oxygen therapy is rare, and is influenced by a number of a factors: individual sensitivity and treatment protocol; and probably therapy indication and equipment used. A study by Welslau in 1996 reported 16 incidents out of a population of 107,264 patients (0.015%), while Hampson and Atik in 2003 found a rate of 0.03%. Yildiz, Ay and Qyrdedi, in a summary of 36,500 patient treatments between 1996 and 2003, reported only 3 oxygen toxicity incidents, giving a rate of 0.008%. A later review of over 80,000 patient treatments revealed an even lower rate: 0.0024%. The reduction in incidence may be partly due to use of a mask (rather than a hood) to deliver oxygen.\n\nBronchopulmonary dysplasia is among the most common complications of prematurely born infants and its incidence has grown as the survival of extremely premature infants has increased. Nevertheless, the severity has decreased as better management of supplemental oxygen has resulted in the disease now being related mainly to factors other than hyperoxia.\n\nIn 1997 a summary of studies of neonatal intensive care units in industrialised countries showed that up to 60% of low birth weight babies developed retinopathy of prematurity, which rose to 72% in extremely low birth weight babies, defined as less than at birth. However, severe outcomes are much less frequent: for very low birth weight babies—those less than at birth—the incidence of blindness was found to be no more than 8%.\n\nCentral nervous system toxicity was first described by Paul Bert in 1878. He showed that oxygen was toxic to insects, arachnids, myriapods, molluscs, earthworms, fungi, germinating seeds, birds, and other animals. Central nervous system toxicity may be referred to as the \"Paul Bert effect\".\n\nPulmonary oxygen toxicity was first described by J. Lorrain Smith in 1899 when he noted central nervous system toxicity and discovered in experiments in mice and birds that had no effect but of oxygen was a pulmonary irritant. Pulmonary toxicity may be referred to as the \"Lorrain Smith effect\". The first recorded human exposure was undertaken in 1910 by Bornstein when two men breathed oxygen at for 30 minutes while he went on to 48 minutes with no symptoms. In 1912, Bornstein developed cramps in his hands and legs while breathing oxygen at for 51 minutes. Smith then went on to show that intermittent exposure to a breathing gas with less oxygen permitted the lungs to recover and delayed the onset of pulmonary toxicity.\n\nAlbert R. Behnke \"et al.\" in 1935 were the first to observe visual field contraction (tunnel vision) on dives between and . During World War II, Donald and Yarbrough \"et al.\" performed over 2,000 experiments on oxygen toxicity to support the initial use of closed circuit oxygen rebreathers. Naval divers in the early years of oxygen rebreather diving developed a mythology about a monster called \"Oxygen Pete\", who lurked in the bottom of the Admiralty Experimental Diving Unit \"wet pot\" (a water-filled hyperbaric chamber) to catch unwary divers. They called having an oxygen toxicity attack \"getting a Pete\".\n\nIn the decade following World War II, Lambertsen \"et al.\" made further discoveries on the effects of breathing oxygen under pressure and methods of prevention. Their work on intermittent exposures for extension of oxygen tolerance and on a model for prediction of pulmonary oxygen toxicity based on pulmonary function are key documents in the development of standard operating procedures when breathing increased pressures of oxygen. Lambertsen's work showing the effect of carbon dioxide in decreasing time to onset of central nervous system symptoms has influenced work from current exposure guidelines to future breathing apparatus design.\n\nRetinopathy of prematurity was not observed before World War II, but with the availability of supplemental oxygen in the decade following, it rapidly became one of the principal causes of infant blindness in developed countries. By 1960 the use of oxygen had become identified as a risk factor and its administration restricted. The resulting fall in retinopathy of prematurity was accompanied by a rise in infant mortality and hypoxia-related complications. Since then, more sophisticated monitoring and diagnosis have established protocols for oxygen use which aim to balance between hypoxic conditions and problems of retinopathy of prematurity.\n\nBronchopulmonary dysplasia was first described by Northway in 1967, who outlined the conditions that would lead to the diagnosis. This was later expanded by Bancalari and in 1988 by Shennan, who suggested the need for supplemental oxygen at 36 weeks could predict long-term outcomes. Nevertheless, Palta \"et al.\" in 1998 concluded that radiographic evidence was the most accurate predictor of long-term effects.\n\nBitterman \"et al.\" in 1986 and 1995 showed that darkness and caffeine would delay the onset of changes to brain electrical activity in rats. In the years since, research on central nervous system toxicity has centred on methods of prevention and safe extension of tolerance. Sensitivity to central nervous system oxygen toxicity has been shown to be affected by factors such as circadian rhythm, drugs, age, and gender. In 1988, Hamilton \"et al.\" wrote procedures for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to establish oxygen exposure limits for habitat operations. Even today, models for the prediction of pulmonary oxygen toxicity do not explain all the results of exposure to high partial pressures of oxygen.\n\nRecreational scuba divers commonly breathe nitrox containing up to 40% oxygen, while technical divers use pure oxygen or nitrox containing up to 80% oxygen. Divers who breathe oxygen fractions greater than of air (21%) need to be trained in the dangers of oxygen toxicity and how to prevent them. In order to buy nitrox, a diver has to show evidence of such qualification.\n\nSince the late 1990s the recreational use of oxygen has been promoted by oxygen bars, where customers breathe oxygen through a nasal cannula. Claims have been made that this reduces stress, increases energy, and lessens the effects of hangovers and headaches, despite the lack of any scientific evidence to support them. There are also devices on sale that offer \"oxygen massage\" and \"oxygen detoxification\" with claims of removing body toxins and reducing body fat. The American Lung Association has stated \"there is no evidence that oxygen at the low flow levels used in bars can be dangerous to a normal person's health\", but the U.S. Center for Drug Evaluation and Research cautions that people with heart or lung disease need their supplementary oxygen carefully regulated and should not use oxygen bars.\n\nVictorian society had a fascination for the rapidly expanding field of science. In \"Dr. Ox's Experiment\", a short story written by Jules Verne in 1872, the eponymous doctor uses electrolysis of water to separate oxygen and hydrogen. He then pumps the pure oxygen throughout the town of Quiquendone, causing the normally tranquil inhabitants and their animals to become aggressive and plants to grow rapidly. An explosion of the hydrogen and oxygen in Dr Ox's factory brings his experiment to an end. Verne summarised his story by explaining that the effects of oxygen described in the tale were his own invention. There is also a brief episode of oxygen intoxication in his \"From the Earth to the Moon\".\n\n\n\n\nGeneral\n\nThe following external site is a compendium of resources:\n\nSpecialised\n\nThe following external sites contain resources specific to particular topics:\n"}
{"id": "44922817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44922817", "title": "PP v. HSE", "text": "PP v. HSE\n\nP.P v. Health Service Executive was a 2014 case in the Irish High Court to rule on whether a pregnant woman (anonymised as \"N.P.\") who was brain dead ought to be kept on life support until the foetus was viable and could be delivered. The woman's next of kin wished her life support to be switched off but medical staff were unsure whether this would violate the foetus' right to life, which is guaranteed by the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland. The case was brought against the Health Service Executive (HSE) by N.P.'s father \"P.P.\"\n\nOn 27 November 2014, a woman, twelve to fourteen weeks pregnant, was admitted to hospital with headaches and nausea. Two days later, she suffered a fall and was later found to be unresponsive. On 3 December, she was declared clinically brain dead. The cause was a large cerebellar cystic lesion causing acute hydrocephalus and compression of brain stem. She was placed on life support against her family's wishes. Her parents and partner supported turning off the life support machines. Her two young children did not recognise her when they visited her, and were upset at her appearance.\n\nOn 15 December 2014, her father applied to the High Court for life support to be turned off. Nicholas Kearns, the President of the High Court, fast-tracked P.P.'s application for his daughter to be made his ward, which took effect on 23 December. On 22 December Kearns decided that the case was important enough for three judges to hear it: himself, Marie Baker, and Caroline Costello. \n\nThe case was heard on 24 December. Four senior counsel were heard: Mary O'Toole for the plaintiff, Gerry Durcan for the respondent, Cormac Corrigan representing the interests of the woman, and Conor Dignam representing the interests of the unborn child. Seven doctors gave evidence. \n\nOn 26 December 2014, the court ruled that the life support machine could be turned off. None of the counsel appealed the verdict.\n\nThe woman was taken off life support on 27 December, and buried on 29 December 2014. In September 2015, an inquest jury returned an open verdict into the cause of her death.\n\nIn November 2016, the family commenced legal action against the HSE, claiming medical negligence.\n\nIn ruling that life support to be switched off, the court held that the woman's right to dignity and her family's wishes could take precedence because the chances of the foetus being born alive were infinitesimal. The court rejected an argument that the Eighth Amendment applied only to Irish abortion law and thus ought not to be invoked in a non-abortion case. The ruling also stated \"when the mother who dies is bearing an unborn child at the time of her death, the rights of that child, who is living, and whose interests are not necessarily inimical to those just expressed, must prevail over the feelings of grief and respect for a mother who is no longer living.\" This left open the possibility of an opposite verdict in a hypothetical similar case further into a pregnancy. \n\nWomen's Link Worldwide gave the High Court judgment the \"Bronze Gavel\" for promoting gender equality at its 2015 \"Gender Justice Uncovered\" awards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5368882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5368882", "title": "Prevention (magazine)", "text": "Prevention (magazine)\n\nPrevention is an American healthy lifestyle magazine published by Hearst Corporation featuring articles about health conditions, wellness, food and nutrition, weight loss, fitness, and beauty. \n\nFounded in 1950 by J.I. Rodale, \"Prevention\" grew out of his interest in exploring the connection between human health and organic agriculture. Originally advertised as \"a medical journal for the people,\" the magazine launch attracted more than 50,000 subscribers. Already controversial for his views promoting organic agriculture, Rodale was determined that the content of his health magazine would be based upon findings in scientific journals, a commitment that continues to this day. \n\nRodale Press, along with \"Prevention\" magazine, were among the first publishers to refuse alcohol and tobacco advertising, as well as junk foods or any food with too many additives. \"Prevention\" was the first magazine to state that fresh food was better than processed, to warn that pesticides were posing a danger to the food supply, to promote the benefits of exercise, and to link emotions and attitude with health.\n\nIn 2018, \"Prevention\" was acquired by Hearst Magazines along with four other Rodale brands (\"Men's Health\", \"Women's Health\", \"Runner's World\", and \"Bicycling\"). Today, \"Prevention\" is published in both the US and Australia. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4050188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4050188", "title": "Red yeast rice", "text": "Red yeast rice\n\nRed yeast rice (), red rice \"koji\" (べにこうじ, lit. 'red \"koji\"'), red fermented rice, red kojic rice, red \"koji\" rice, anka, or ang-kak, is a bright reddish purple fermented rice, which acquires its colour from being cultivated with the mold \"Monascus purpureus\".\n\nRed yeast rice is what is referred to as a \"koji\" in Japanese, meaning \"grain or bean overgrown with a mold culture\", a food preparation tradition going back to ca. 300 BC. In both the scientific and popular literature in English that draws principally on Japanese, red yeast rice is most often referred to as \"red rice \"koji\"\". English works favoring Chinese sources may prefer the translation \"red yeast rice\".\n\nBecause of the low cost of chemical dyes, some producers of red yeast rice have adulterated their products with the poisonous dye Sudan Red G.\n\nRed yeast rice is produced by cultivating the yeast strain \"Monascus purpureus\" on rice. The rice is first soaked in water until the grains are fully saturated. The raw soaked rice can then either be directly inoculated or it can be steamed for the purpose of sterilizing and cooking the grains prior to inoculation. Inoculation is done by mixing either \"M. purpureus\" spores or powdered red yeast rice together with the rice that is being treated. The mix is then incubated in an environment around room temperature for 3–6 days. During this period of time, the rice should be fully cultured with \"M. purpureus\", with each rice grain turning bright red in its core and reddish purple on the outside. The fully cultured rice is then either sold as the dried grain, or cooked and pasteurized to be sold as a wet paste, or dried and pulverized to be sold as a fine powder. China is the world's largest producer of red yeast rice.\n\nRed yeast rice is used to colour a wide variety of food products, including pickled tofu, red rice vinegar, \"char siu\", Peking Duck, and Chinese pastries that require red food colouring. It is also traditionally used in the production of several types of Chinese \"huangjiu\" (\"Shaoxing jiu\"), and Japanese \"sake\" (\"akaisake\"), imparting a reddish colour to these wines. Although used mainly for its colour in cuisine, red yeast rice imparts a subtle but pleasant taste to food and is commonly used in the cuisine of Fujian province of China.\n\nIn addition to its culinary use, red yeast rice is also used in Chinese herbology and traditional Chinese medicine. Its use has been documented as far back as the Tang Dynasty in China in 800 AD. It is taken internally to invigorate the body, aid in digestion, and revitalize the blood. A more complete description is in the traditional Chinese pharmacopoeia, \"Ben Cao Gang Mu-Dan Shi Bu Yi\", from the Ming Dynasty (1378–1644).\n\nIn the late 1970s, researchers in the United States and Japan were isolating lovastatin from \"Aspergillus\" and monacolins from \"Monascus\", respectively, the latter being the same fungus used to make red yeast rice but cultured under carefully controlled conditions. Chemical analysis soon showed that lovastatin and monacolin K are identical. The article \"The origin of statins\" summarizes how the two isolations, documentations and patent applications were just months apart. Lovastatin became the patented, prescription drug Mevacor for Merck & Co. Red yeast rice went on to become a contentious non-prescription dietary supplement in the United States and other countries.\n\nLovastatin and other prescription \"statin\" drugs inhibit cholesterol synthesis by blocking action of the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase. As a consequence, circulating total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol are lowered. In a meta-analysis of 91 randomized clinical trials of ≥12 weeks duration, totaling 68,485 participants, LDL-cholesterol was lowered by 24-49% depending on the statin. Different strains of \"Monascus\" fungus will produce different amounts of monacolins. The 'Went' strain of \"Monascus purpureus\" (purpureus = dark red in Latin), when properly fermented and processed, will yield a dried red yeast rice powder that is approximately 0.4% monacolins, of which roughly half will be monacolin K (identical to lovastatin). Monacolin content of a red yeast rice product is described in a 2008 clinical trial report.\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration (FDA) position is that red yeast rice products that contain monacolin K, i.e., lovastatin, are identical to a drug and, thus, subject to regulation as a drug. In 1998, the FDA initiated action to ban a product (Cholestin) containing red yeast rice extract. The U.S. District Court in Utah allowed the product to be sold without restriction. This decision was reversed on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals. (Moore, 2001) (see Further Reading: PDRhealth). Thereafter, the FDA sent Warning Letters to companies selling red yeast rice. The product disappeared from the market for a few years.\n\nIn 2003, red yeast rice products began to reappear in the U.S. market. In 2007, the FDA sent Warning Letters to two dietary supplement companies. One was making a monacolin content claim about its RYR product and the other was not, but the FDA noted that both products contained monacolins. Both products were withdrawn. The FDA also issued a warning press release. The crux of the release was that consumers should \"… not buy or eat red yeast rice products … may contain an unauthorized drug that could be harmful to health.\" The rationale for \"… harmful to health …\" was that consumers might not understand that the dangers of monacolin-containing red yeast rice might be the same as those of prescription statin drugs.\n\nIn 2008, 2014, and 2018, ConsumerLab.com published laboratory tests of red yeast rice supplements purchased from US retailers, most recently stating \"the suggested daily servings of only two products provided the amount of lovastatin compounds shown to lower cholesterol levels.\" The ConsumerLab.com reports include results by brand. A 2017 study from the European Journal of Preventive Cardiology (EJPC) tested 28 brands of red yeast rice supplements purchased from US retailers, stating \"the quantity of monacolin K varied from none to prescription strength [...]\" This European study did not list the individual brands, but only the results.\n\nAs of 2016, there are at least 30 brands available. Many of these avoid the FDA restriction by not having any appreciable monacolin content. Their labels and websites say no more than \"fermented according to traditional Asian methods\" or \"similar to that used in culinary applications.\" The labeling on these products often says nothing about cholesterol. If they do not contain lovastatin, do not claim to contain lovastatin, and do not make a claim to lower cholesterol, they are not subject to FDA action. Two reviews confirm that the monacolin content of red yeast rice dietary supplements can vary over a wide range, with some containing negligible monacolins.\n\nThe amount typically used in clinical trials is 1200–2400 mg/day of red yeast rice containing approximately 10 mg total monacolins, of which half are monacolin K. This does raise a question about the function of the other monacolins and non-monacolin compounds in the products, as the monacolin K content is lower than what is usually considered effective for lovastatin (20–80 mg/day). A meta-analysis of 20 clinical trials, range of red yeast rice dose 1200 to 4800 mg/day, reported LDL-cholesterol lowered by 1.02 mmol/L (39.4 mg/dL) compared to placebo. The incidence of reported adverse effects ranged from 0% to 5% and was not different from controls.\n\nWithin this review, the largest and longest duration trial was conducted in China: the China Coronary Secondary Prevention Study (CCSPS). Close to 5,000 post-heart attack patients were enrolled for an average of 4.5 years to receive either a placebo or a RYR product named Xuezhikang (血脂康). The test product was an ethanol extract of red yeast rice, with a monacolin K content of 11.6 mg/day. Key CCSPS results: In the treated group, risk of subsequent heart attacks was reduced by 45%, cardio deaths by 31%, and all-cause deaths by 33%.\n\nThe CCSPS heart attack and cardiovascular death outcomes appear to be better than what has been reported for prescription statin drugs. A 2008 review pointed out that the cardioprotective effects of statins in Japanese populations occur at lower doses than are needed in Western populations, and theorized that the low amount of monacolins found in Xuezhikang might have been more effectively athero-protective than expected in the Chinese population in the CCSPS study for the same reason.\n\nThe safety of red yeast rice products has not been established, and some commercial supplements have been found to contain high levels of the toxin citrinin. As commercial products will have highly variable amounts of monacolins, and rarely declare this content on the label, defining risk is difficult. Ingredient suppliers have also been suspected of \"spiking\" red yeast rice preparations with purified lovastatin. As evidence, one published analysis reported several commercial products as being almost entirely monacolin K - which would occur if the drug lovastatin was added - rather than the expected composition of many monacolin compounds. Statin drugs are known to cause muscle and liver damage. Statin-associated rhabdomyolysis can lead to kidney damage and possibly kidney failure (renal failure). This is why they are prescription drugs rather than over-the-counter, and with recommendations that the patients' physicians schedule liver function tests on a regular basis. There are reports in the literature of muscle myopathy and liver damage resulting from red yeast rice usage. In 2009 Becker \"et al.\" reported on a U.S. trial that enrolled 62 patients with known statin-associated myalgias. Half got a RYR product (3600 mg/day, 13 mg monacolins, 6 mg monacolin k) for 24 weeks; and half were administered a placebo. In the treated group, LDL-cholesterol declined 21%. Two patients dropped out because of myalgia, 1 for diarrhea, and 1 for dizziness. In the placebo group, one dropped out for myalgia. Creatine phosphokinase increased slightly in the treated group (from 122 to 128 IU/L) versus decreasing with placebo (117 to 101 IU/L), but the shifts were not statistically significant. For those having completed the trial, subjective muscle pain scores were similar for the two groups. \"The potential safety signals of myopathies and liver injury raise the hypothesis that the safety profile of RYR is similar to that of statins. Continuous monitoring of dietary supplements should be promoted to finally characterize their risk profile, thus supporting regulatory bodies for appropriate actions.\"\n\nRed yeast is likely unsafe during pregnancy. It has caused birth defects in animals, and there is not enough information about the safety of using red yeast during breast-feeding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19364010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19364010", "title": "Reverse vaccinology", "text": "Reverse vaccinology\n\nReverse vaccinology is an improvement on vaccinology that employs bioinformatics, pioneered by Rino Rappuoli and first used against Serogroup B meningococcus. Since then, it has been used on several other bacterial vaccines.\n\nThe basic idea behind reverse vaccinology is that an entire pathogenic genome can be screened using bioinformatics approaches to find genes. Some of the traits that the genes are monitored for that may indicate antigenicity include genes that code for proteins with extracellular localization, signal peptides, and B-cell epitopes. Next, those genes are filtered for desirable attributes that would make good vaccine targets such as outer membrane proteins. Once the candidates are identified, they are produced synthetically and are screened in animal models of the infection.\n\nAfter Craig Venter published the genome of the first free-living organism in 1995, the genomes of other microorganisms became more readily available throughout the end of the twentieth century. Reverse vaccinology, designing vaccines using the pathogen’s sequenced genome, came from this new wealth of genomic information, as well as technological advances. Reverse vaccinology is much more efficient than traditional vaccinology, which requires growing large amounts of specific microorganisms as well as extensive wet lab tests.\n\nIn 2000, Rino Rappuoli and the J. Craig Venter Institute developed the first vaccine using Reverse Vaccinology against Serogroup B meningococcus. The J. Craig Venter institute and others then continued work on vaccines for A Streptococcus, B Streptococcus, Staphylococcus auereus, and Streptococcus pneumoniae.\nAttempts at reverse vaccinology first began with Meningococcus B (MenB). Meningococcus B caused over 50% of meningococcal meningitis, and scientists had been unable to create a successful vaccine for the pathogen because of the bacterium’s unique structure. This bacterium’s polysaccharide shell is identical to that of a human self-antigen, but its surface proteins vary greatly; and the lack of information about the surface proteins caused developing a vaccine to be extremely difficult. As a result, Rino Rappuoli and other scientists turned towards bioinformatics to design a functional vaccine.\n\nRappuoli and others at the J. Craig Venter Institute first sequenced the MenB genome. Then, they scanned the sequenced genome for potential antigens. They found over 600 possible antigens, which were tested by expression in Escherichia coli. The most universally applicable antigens were used in the prototype vaccines. Several proved to function successfully in mice, however, these proteins alone did not effectively interact with the human immune system due to not inducing a good immune response in order for the protection to be achieved. Later, by addition of outer membrane vesicles that contain lipopolysaccharides from the purification of blebs on gram negative cultures. The addition of this adjuvant (previously identified by using conventional vaccinology approaches) enhanced immune response to the level that was required. Later, the vaccine was proven to be safe and effective in adult humans.\n\nDuring the development of the MenB vaccine, scientists adopted the same Reverse Vaccinology methods for other bacterial pathogens. A Streptococcus and B Streptococcus vaccines were two of the first Reverse Vaccines created. Because those bacterial strains induce antibodies that react with human antigens, the vaccines for those bacteria needed to not contain homologies to proteins encoded in the human genome in order to not cause adverse reactions, thus establishing the need for genome-based Reverse Vaccinology.\n\nLater, Reverse Vaccinology was used to develop vaccines for antibiotic-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pneumoniae \n\nThe major advantage for reverse vaccinology is finding vaccine targets quickly and efficiently. Traditional methods may take decades to unravel pathogens and antigens, diseases and immunity. However, \"In silico\" can be very fast, allowing to identify new vaccines for testing in only a few years. The downside is that only proteins can be targeted using this process. Whereas, conventional vaccinology approaches can find other biomolecular targets such as polysaccharides.\n\nThough using bioinformatic technology to develop vaccines has become typical in the past ten years, general laboratories often do not have the advanced software that can do this. However, there are a growing number of programs making reverse vaccinology information more accessible. NERVE is one relatively new dataprocessing program. Though it must be downloaded and does not include all epitope predictions, it does help save some time by combining the computational steps of reverse vaccinology into one program. Vaxign, an even more comprehensive program, was created in 2008. Vaxign is web-based and completely public-access.\n\nThough Vaxign has been found to be extremely accurate and efficient, some scientists still utilize the online software RANKPEP for the peptide bonding predictions. Both Vaxign and RANKPEP employ PSSMs (Position Specific Scoring Matrices) when analyzing protein sequences or sequence alignments.\n\nComputer Aided bioinformatics projects are becoming extremely popular, as they help guide the laboratory experiments.\n\n\nProfile of Rino Rappuoli: http://www.pnas.org/content/103/29/10831.full\n\n"}
{"id": "54981477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54981477", "title": "Robert Portner", "text": "Robert Portner\n\nRobert Portner (1837-1906) was a successful grocer-turned-brewer who supplied beer to Union troops during the Civil War. Based in Alexandria, Virginia, Portner found success after the war with the Robert Portner Brewing Company. Portner patented two brewing-related systems, one to purify air and the other to cool beer.\n\nRobert Portner was born in Rahden, Westphalia, Prussia on March 20, 1837 and immigrated to the United States in 1853. Portner spent eight years in New York and tried his hand at many professions, including baker, tobacconist, and saloon-keeper. \n\nIn 1861, with the outbreak of the Civil War, Portner wanted to see the action up close and personal. He traveled south to Alexandria, Virginia, Virginia (U.S. state) where he bought a grocery store with his friend Frederick Recker and the two men found success selling food and supplies to Union soldiers stationed in the area. Noting the difficulty in importing beer, Portner and Recker paired with Edward Abner and a local brewer to form Portner and Company, where they brewed their own beer to sell to the troops. \n\nAfter the war, Portner and Company dissolved. Recker kept the grocery store and Portner focused on expanding the brewery. Portner learned the brewing process and eventually brewed enough to require storage cellars. He was in debt at the time and asked for extensions on his loans. Union Soldiers had left Alexandria and the demand for beer was not as high as it once was. The brewery continued to grow and Portner was able to pay off his debts. \n\nPortner patented a system for chilling lager as well as an ice-making machine that improved the quality of his beer. He eventually had fifty refrigerated train cars used to ship his product. With his successes, Portner further expanded his company to include beer gardens.\n\nIn 1883, Portner had his brewery incorporated and sold shares of stock to his most successful employees. The first Board of Directors included himself as President, Paul Muhlhauser as Vice-President, Charles A. Strangmann as Secretary & Treasurer, and C. G. Herbort & B. Edward J. Eils. Over the next thirty-three years the brewery expanded and grew to cover two full city blocks and all the latest technological advancements. Depots and bottling houses throughout the South helped to expand the brewery's network, reaching as far south as Augusta, Georgia, Georgia (U.S. state). Ultimately the brewery closed when Prohibition took effect in Virginia in 1916. Portner's sons tried to keep the company alive by changing the name to the Virginia Feed & Milling Corporation and converting the brewery into a feed and grain business but did not fare nearly as well, and the company was out of business by 1930.\n\nIn 1869, Portner was visited by Christian Mathis and Peter Valaer with an invitation to join Peter's brother Jacob as a partner in his brewery and Winter garden in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He visited Valaer's business, and though he was interested he knew he could not extract himself from his brewery in Alexandria. It was here, though, that he met Jacob and Peter's sister, Anna, whom he fell in love with and would marry in 1872.\n\nIn 1883, Portner bought Mathis' estate in Manassas, Virginia, Virginia. When they had visited in the past, Portner's wife had said that the land, with its view of the Bull Run Mountains, reminded her of her homeland in Switzerland, and that she loved it. As time went on, Portner purchased more and more surrounding farmland, growing his estate to nearly 2,500 acres. It would encompass a large portion of the Civil War battlefield, a historic pre-war house, and the Fortification Fort Beauregard. Portner managed to turn miles of battle-scarred earth and scraggly cornfields into lush pastures for his stock and dairy farm, as well as considerably expand Mathis' original orchards and vineyards.\n\nBy 1890, the Italianate house on the property had become too small for their family. He had the house moved and, working with prominent architect Gustav Friebus, Portner designed a new home that would combine elements of his favorite European mansions. Built between 1892 and 1894 at a cost of $150,000, Annaburg was a three-story, thirty-five room architectural gem, complete with indoor plumbing, electricity, and porches that wrapped around three sides. It also featured climate control system which combined two of Portner's brewery inventions, making it what is believed to be the first house in the country to have air-conditioning.\n\nThroughout his life, Portner suffered from weak nerves and rheumatism. As the stress of his multiple businesses mounted, as well as combating the ever-growing anti-saloon sentiment throughout the country, Portner found himself gradually weaker and in ill health. He took multiple trips to Europe to recuperate, none of which helped long term. By 1903 he had all but formally retired from active business activities and was living full-time at Annaburg. It was here, surrounded by his family, that he died on May 29, 1906. He was buried in the Manassas Cemetery three days later.\n"}
{"id": "17280221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17280221", "title": "Sir Edward Ward, 1st Baronet, of Wilbraham Place", "text": "Sir Edward Ward, 1st Baronet, of Wilbraham Place\n\nColonel Sir Edward Willis Duncan Ward, 1st Baronet (17 December 1853–11 September 1928) was a British Army officer and military administrator, serving as Permanent Secretary of the War Office. He was a notable reformer of army administration, improving efficiency of mobilization, medical services and supplies.\nWard was born in Oban in 1853, the only son of Captain John Ward, RN, by his wife Mary Hope Bowie. He was commissioned Sub-Lieutenant in the 2nd Royal Lanarkshire Militia in December 1873, and transferred to the 2nd West India Regiment in February 1874. In April 1874 he transferred into the Control Department as a Sub-Assistant Commissary, transferring to the new Commissariat and Transport Department in 1875, although he did not resign his militia commission until December 1874. He was promoted Assistant Commissary in 1876. In January 1880 the department changed its name to the Commissariat and Transport Staff and Ward became a Deputy Assistant Commissary-General in the new organisation.\n\nIn April 1885 Commissariat and Transport Staff officers were given honorary military rank and Ward also became a Captain. He was with Sir Garnet Wolseley's sojourn up the Nile to recapture Khartoum. In December 1885 he was promoted to Assistant Commissary-General and Major. In December 1888 the department underwent yet another change, becoming the Army Service Corps, with its officers now holding full military rank. He was promoted Lieutenant-Colonel in June 1890. He went on the Ashanti Expedition in West Africa in 1895-6. Ward returned to England and was promoted to Brevet Colonel in March 1898.\n\nWard sailed with the first ships to Cape Town Harbour in September 1899. After the Siege of Ladysmith, Sir George White called him 'the greatest supply officer since Moses'.\n\nIn 1900 while on campaign he was appointed director of Supplies to the South African Field Force by Lord Roberts. Ward had begun life in the administration of military supplies. His organizational abilities were quickly discovered by after the chaotic state of affairs in 1899, the changes were most welcome. Lord Salisbury directed him to take up the position of Permanent Under-secretary at the War Office under Secretary St John Brodrick. A successful and competent civil servant Colonel Ward was elevated to a baronetcy of Wilbraham Place, in 1914 by the Liberal government overseeing the radical reforms of the Army Council. Ward could be credited, as his own publication revealed for founding the Army Service Corps; it played a decisive role in the BEF, keeping the logistics and transport departments supplied to the front.\n\nWard was a President of the Union Jack Club, and Chairman of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. In 1919 he was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire.\n\nIn 1880 he married Florence Caroline Simons (1858–1934).\n\nHe was succeeded in the baronetcy by his eldest son, Captain Edward Simons Ward (1882–1930). Together with Frederick Hamilton-Temple-Blackwood, 3rd Marquess of Dufferin and Ava and Viscountess Ednam, he died when their aeroplane returning to London from Le Touquet exploded in midair over Meopham, Kent. Captain Ward was succeeded in the baronetcy by his younger brother, Melvill Willis Ward (1885–1973), as the 3rd Baronet. The title became extinct on his brother's death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16015643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16015643", "title": "St. Mary's General Hospital (Passaic, New Jersey)", "text": "St. Mary's General Hospital (Passaic, New Jersey)\n\nSt. Mary's General Hospital is an acute care hospital offering a broad range of health care services and community outreach programs. The hospital campus is located in Passaic, New Jersey on a plot of land bordered on the south by Oak Street, the north by Crescent Avenue, the west by Lafayette Avenue, and the east by Boulevard.\n\nSt. Mary's address, officially, is 350 Boulevard. For most of its existence, however, the hospital operated at a facility located at 211 Pennington Avenue in the Passaic Park section of the city. It is affiliated with the Sisters of Charity of Saint Elizabeth, a Roman Catholic convent in Morris Township, New Jersey.\n\nAs of 2014, St. Mary's is owned by Prime Healthcare Services. It added the \"General\" to its name following the acquisition.\n\nSt. Mary’s Hospital currently serves approximately 13,000 inpatients annually, in addition to caring for 10,500 patients requiring same-day procedures. A new ER Fast Track Center was added in 2009 to better accommodate the nearly 35,000 visits to St. Mary’s busy ER each year.\nConstruction of St. Mary's original location began on May 23, 1897. (Other accounts, likely mistaken, indicate that it was almost completed in March of that year.) Until then, the city had only a medical dispensary, but not a full service hospital facility. There was some controversy between competing groups over the building of a new hospital, but both groups appear to have succeeded in opening separate institutions at about the same time.\n\nTwo other hospitals opened later, giving the city three hospitals for many years. They all eventually merged into a single remaining entity, today's St. Mary's. Though each provided full-service hospital facilities, each predecessor Passaic hospital had its own specialty.\n\n\nIn 2000, Atlantic Health Systems acquired the General Hospital Center at Passaic. Four years later, the owners of Beth Israel Hospital bought General from Atlantic and closed the Parker Avenue facility, merging the operations of both hospitals into the Boulevard facility. The merged hospital took on the name PBI Regional Medical Center. Within two years, PBI Regional filed for bankruptcy due to mismanagement from administration and staff. \n\nSt. Mary's, which was having problems maintaining its 112-year-old facility, was called on to save the failing hospital and received a grant from the state to purchase the hospital and move their operations to the Boulevard site, thus leaving Passaic with one surviving hospital.\n\nAlthough on March 9, 2009, St. Mary's Hospital filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, a federal bankruptcy judge approved of its reorganization plan less than a year from filing, as reported in the week of March 2, 2010. \"St. Mary's emerges from Chapter 11 stronger and better than before,\" said Michael J. Sniffen, St. Mary's president/CEO, in a media release. \"After less than one year, we emerge revitalized, improved, and re-committed to serving the community and the physicians that have so loyally supported us through this difficult process.\" \n\nThe facility on Pennington Avenue was maintained for psychiatric admissions and care for some time after the rest of the hospital moved. However, St. Mary's closed its psychiatric unit on May 12, 2009, transferring admissions to Clara Maass Medical Center in Belleville, New Jersey. The Psychiatric Emergency Screening Unit moved to St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center in Paterson; this unit is the primary facility used for psychiatric emergency care in Passaic County.[2] This now leaves the original facility empty. From 2009 to 2010 the building was used by NBC to film episodes of the first season of the medical drama Mercy (TV series).\n\n-St Mary's Hospital, 211 Pennington Avenue, Passaic, New Jersey: Cleaver Brooks boiler Explosion 7/15/06.\n\nPhysician and poet William Carlos Williams was affiliated with St. Mary's predecessor, Passaic General Hospital, where he served as the hospital's chief of pediatrics. The hospital paid tribute to Williams with a memorial plaque that states \"we walk the wards that Williams walked.\"\n"}
{"id": "52204643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52204643", "title": "Swami Ramanand Teerth Rural Medical College", "text": "Swami Ramanand Teerth Rural Medical College\n\nSwami Ramanand Teerth Rural Government Medical College is a state medical institution located in Ambajogai, district beed, Maharashtra.This is the 1st rural medical college in Asia.College is commonly known as SRTR GMC AMBAJOGAI.Dr. V.K. Dawale, FRCS was the founder Dean of this Medical College. His dream, dedication and efforts of starting a medical college in this rural area finally came true. The first batch of 50 students was admitted in the month of July 1975 and passed out in 1979.\n\nThe Medical Council of India Inspection Team was impressed at the performance of the students and therefore pleased to give recognition to this college, even before the 1st batch of M.B.B.S. students passed out. The Post-Graduate courses in various subjects were also started with the permission of Government of Maharashtra and Medical Council of India. The first batch of Post-Graduates came out in 1981.In year 1998, the bed strength of hospital was increased to 500. As on today almost all the disciplines run the post-graduate courses which are recognized by MCI. Large scale Silver Jubilee Year Celebration was held in the year 2000 on completion of 25 years of this institution. New College building was completed in year 2008, and Deans Office, Pre and Para-Clinical Departments have been shifted in the new building.New Residents Hostel of capacity 124 rooms has been completed in year 2009 and now providing accommodation to the Resident Doctors from Jan 2010.New hospital building (Medicine Unit) was completed in year 2007, and Dept of Paediatric, ICU unit, Medicine Unit have been shifted there.Construction for the New 230 bedded hospital (Surgical Unit) is completed.\n"}
{"id": "24700623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24700623", "title": "UN World Water Development Report", "text": "UN World Water Development Report\n\nThe United Nations World Water Development Report (WWDR) is a global report that provides an authoritative, comprehensive assessment of the world’s freshwater resources. It is produced annually by the World Water Assessment Programme and released by UN-Water.\n\nThe Report examines the ways that the world’s water resources are being managed and the varied water problems that different regions of the world are experiencing. It takes a close look at growing water problems worldwide, such as access to clean water and sanitation, and the cross-cutting issues which affect them, such as energy, climate change, agriculture, and urban growth. The Report also offers recommendations on how freshwater resources could be managed more sustainably.\n\nThe content of the Report comes from the coordinated efforts of 26 UN agencies that make up UN-Water, working with governments, international organizations, non-governmental organizations and other stakeholders.\n\nIn 2018, the topic of the report was \"Nature-based Solutions for Water\". In 2017, the topic of the report was \"Wastewater: The Untapped Resource\". \n\nIn 1998, the Sixth Session of the Commission on Sustainable Development stated that there was a need for regular, global assessments on the status of freshwater resources. In response to this recommendation, the member organizations of UN-Water (known then as the ACC Subcommittee on Water Resources) decided to produce a World Water Development Report every three years, with an aim to reporting on the status of global freshwater resources and the progress achieved in reaching the Millennium Development Goals related to water.\n\nThe UN World Water Development Reports monitor changes in the world’s freshwater resources and their management. They track progress towards achieving international development targets, particularly those of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and offer best practices as well as in-depth theoretical analyses to help stimulate ideas and actions for better stewardship in the water sector.\n\nThe WWDRs also include the findings of case study development projects initiated in different geographic regions of the world. The case studies provide an in-depth analysis of the state of freshwater resources and related challenges that directly affect the livelihoods of people in the societies. In the production of WWDRs, more than 64 countries have been covered at basin or national level.\n\nThe 2018 Report was launched 19 March 2018 during the 8th World Water Forum, and in conjunction to the World Water Day (22 March 2018). Its title was \"Nature-based Solutions for Water\".\n\nThe fourth Report was launched at the sixth World Water Forum in Marseille, France in March 2012. Its title was \"Managing Water under Uncertainty and Risk\".\n\nThe third Report, “Water in a Changing World”, was launched at the fifth World Water Forum held in Istanbul, Turkey in March, 2009.\n\nUnlike the earlier Reports, which were structured along UN agency lines, “Water in a Changing World” took a holistic approach, addressing a number of themes throughout the report, such as climate change, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), groundwater, biodiversity, water and migration, water and infrastructure, and biofuels. The Report has four main sections, apart from the introduction and the recommendations: “drivers of change,” “the use of the resource for humans and for ecosystems,” “the state of the resource,” and “responding to a changing world: what are the options?”\n\n\"Case Studies\": The third Report is accompanied by the first stand-alone volume of WWAP case studies, titled \"Facing the Challenges\", which includes 20 studies from Africa, Asia and the Pacific, Europe and Latin America, where conditions of water-related stress and socio-economic settings vary widely. Case studies include the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (Spain), Bangladesh, Cameroon, China, the Cholistan desert (Pakistan), Estonia, the Han River basin (Republic of Korea), Istanbul (Turkey), the Lake Merín basin (Brazil and Uruguay), La Plata River basin (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay), the Netherlands, Pacific island states, the Po River basin (Italy), Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Tunisia, Uzbekistan, the Vuoksi River basin (Finland and the Russian Federation) and Zambia.\n\nLinks to Report and related materials:\n\nThe second WWDR, “Water: A Shared Responsibility,” was presented in 2006 at the fourth World Water Forum in Mexico City, Mexico. Building on the conclusions of the first WWDR, the Report provides an assessment of freshwater resources in all regions and most countries of the world as it tracks progress towards the water-related targets of the UN Millennium Development Goals. It examines a range of key issues including population growth and increasing urbanization, changing ecosystems, food production, health, industry and energy, as well as risk management, valuing and paying for water and increasing knowledge and capacity. Sixteen case studies look at typical water resource challenges and provide valuable insights into different facets of the water crisis and management responses. Finally, the report outlines a set of conclusions and recommendations to guide future action and encourage sustainable use, productivity and management of our increasingly scarce freshwater resources.\n\n\"Case studies\": The second Report contains 16 case studies, including the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (Spain), the Danube River Basin (Albania, Austria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Italy, the Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Serbia and Montenegro, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Switzerland and Ukraine), Ethiopia, France, Japan, Kenya, Lake Peipsi (Estonia and the Russian Federation), Lake Titicaca (Peru and Bolivia), Mali, Mexico, Mongolia, the La Plata River Basin (Brazil, Bolivia, Paraguay, Argentina, and Uruguay), South Africa and Sri Lanka.\n\nLinks to report and related materials:\n\nThe first UN World Water Development Report, called “Water for People, Water for Life” was presented at the third World Water Forum in Japan in 2003. The Report provides an assessment of the globe’s water crisis; reviews progress and trends; proposes methodologies and indicators for measuring sustainability; assesses progress in 11 challenge areas (health, food, environment, shared water resources, cities, industry, energy, risk management, knowledge, valuing water and governance); and, presents seven pilot case studies of river basins representing various social, economic and environmental settings.\n\n\"Case Studies\": The first Report looked at seven case studies, including the Chao Phraya River basin (Thailand), Greater Tokyo (Japan), Lake Peipsi/Chudskoe-Pskovskoe (Estonia, Russian Federation), Lake Titicaca basin (Bolivia, Peru), Ruhuna basins (Sri Lanka), Seine-Normandy basin (France), and the Senegal River basin (Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, Senegal).\n\nLinks to report and related materials:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13458270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13458270", "title": "Virodene", "text": "Virodene\n\nVirodene is an AIDS drug developed in South Africa, but rejected by the scientific community. Controversy surrounds the research procedures, political interference and the safety and efficacy of the drug itself, the main active ingredient of which is the industrial solvent Dimethylformamide (DMF).\n\nMichelle Olga Patricia Visser, working as a medical technician at Pretoria Hospital, says she discovered the anti-bacterial properties of DMF while conducting experiments to freeze animal hearts using this substance. In conjunction with her businessman husband, Jacques Siegfried \"Zigi\" Visser, she administered the drug to 11 patients without approval. They were rebuked for these actions and the South African Medicines Control Council blocked further human trials.\n\nMore human trials were conducted in Tanzania in 2000 even after the South African Medicines Control Council ruled that such trials would be unethical and in contravention of the law and refused permission for human trials in 1998. The Tanzania health agency, NIMR, also rejected proposals for human trials, but the Vissers approached the Tanzanian Defence Force directly and conducted the trials in military hospitals.\n\nCalls have now been made in some circles for an investigation of South African President Thabo Mbeki's involvement in support or funding of the company.\n\nOlga Visser claimed she was a full professor and head of the department of New Technologies in Medicine at Moderna University in Lisbon, Portugal, but officials insist there is no record of her on the faculty or even of such a department.\n\nOn several occasions the Vissers conducted human trials without any authorisation from the appropriate health authorities.\n\nIn 1997 the researchers were allowed to make presentations to the South African Cabinet. They received support from Thabo Mbeki, then South African deputy president and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, the health minister at the time. Mbeki even criticised the Medicines Control Council, stating that \"it became more and more difficult to understand the attitude adopted by the MCC\" and that \"I and many others will not rest until the efficacy or otherwise of Virodene is established scientifically\" in direct opposition to the rejection of human trials by the Medicines Control Council.\n\nIn the same letter Mbeki went as far as suggesting that parties who caused the controversy surrounding Virodene wanted to create the AIDS pandemic in Sub-Saharan Africa:\nSome analysts point out that the mere involvement of senior government officials in a regulatory process for which there exists well established regulatory bodies such as the Medicines Control Council could only ever serve to open up the process to charges of maladministration.\n\nIn 1999 it was revealed that several businessmen with close ties to Mbeki —by then President of South Africa— such as Max Maisela, invested heavily into the Virodene companies.\n\nMaisela was on Mbeki's \"consultative council\" during Mbeki's tenure as Deputy President and at the time of the investments headed Negotiated Benefits Consultants (NBC) which was owned by Worldwide Africa Holdings a company co-founded by Wiseman Nkhuhlu, then presidential advisor to Mbeki.\n\nReports alleging investment from source close to government again surface in 2007. The fresh reports by the newspaper \"The Saturday Star\" suggested investments between 2000 and 2001 that tapered off after the trials in Tanzania were aborted, allegations denied by the Presidency.\n\nInitial funding came from the controversial cryonics (low temperature preservation of humans after death) company Alcor Life. The funding came because of the main Virodene founder's research into the freezing and thawing of animal hearts.\n\n"}
{"id": "26501949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26501949", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Russia", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Russia\n\nIn Russia, approximately 70 per cent of drinking water comes from surface water and 30 per cent from groundwater. In 2004, water supply systems had a total capacity of 90 million cubic metres a day. The average residential water use was 248 litres per capita per day. One fourth of the world’s fresh surface and groundwater is located in Russia. The water utilities sector is one of the largest industries in Russia serving the entire Russian population.\n\nSanitation In 2002, the capacity of the wastewater treatment plants was 56.1 million cubic metres a day, which is about the same as the 1995 level. The length of the sewerage network was 118,000 km. The amount of wastewater passing through the plants in 2002 represents 86 per cent of wastewater emitted. Of this, only 28 per cent is treated in accordance with the established regulations, while the remainder is discharged, insufficiently treated, into rivers, lakes and the sea. 60 per cent of the wastewater treatment plants are overloaded and 38 per cent have been in operation for 25 to 30 years and need to be reconstructed. The deficit in the capacity of sewerage systems at present is more than 9 million cubic metres a day. 9,616 sewerage systems are in operation, but 44 towns (4 per cent) and 582 urban type settlements (27 per cent) still had no central sewerage system in 2002.\n\nAs of 2014, there were at least 23 contracts with private companies to manage water utilities or plants with an investment commitment of almost 2 billion US dollars. 18 contracts cover entire utilities and 5 contracts cover individual plants. 5 of these contracts were signed before 2002, 17 in the 2003-2006 period. Only one contract - a 100 million dollars concession in Voronezh signed in 2012 - was awarded after 2006. 8 of the 23 contracts are held by the conglomerate Alfa Group either directly or through its subsidiary Rosvodokanal. Its Russian competitor Integrated Energy Systems Holding (IES) holds four lease contracts. The largest foreign investor in the Russian water sector is Austrian EVN Group, which holds three contracts for treatment plants. These include the largest water contract in Russia for the South-West Moscow drinking water plant, which was signed in 2004 with an investment commitment of 220 million US dollars. The French water company Veolia is engaged in Russia through a contract for the Southern Water Treatment Plant signed in 2005. While some of these contracts were awarded through competitive bidding, most were awarded after direct negotiations. \n\nIn 2003, the Saint Petersburg utility signed a concession agreement for the Southwest wastewater treatment plant with a Swedish-Finnish consortium. The project was supported by loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the European Investment Bank (EIB). The Nordic Environment Finance Corporation owns part of the project company. The idea of a concession for the entire water and wastewater system of Saint Petersburg was first floated in 2005. In parallel, a plan to bid out a Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) contract for a water treatment plant was championed by the city governor Valentina Matvienko, but was abandoned in 2013. In the same year, the new city governor Georgy Poltavchenko announced plans to sign a 25-30 year concession agreement including investments of USD 3 billion. A tender was expected to be launched in 2014 \"at the earliest\".\n\nHowever, concessions such as the one planned for Saint Petersburg may not be financially viable because Russian President Vladimir Putin imposed a national water tariff freeze. In October 2014 the city of Volgograd announced it would launch a bid for a 25-year concession involving investments of $500 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "32960966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32960966", "title": "William S. Kroger", "text": "William S. Kroger\n\nWilliam Saul Kroger (April 14, 1906 – December 4, 1995) was an American medical doctor who pioneered the use of hypnosis in medicine and was co-founder and founder of medical societies and academies dedicated to furthering psychosomatic medicine and medical hypnosis.\n\nThough he was trained as a gynecologist/obstetrician, his contributions to the medical field cut across disciplines and specialties in the medical field, including psychiatry, psychosomatic illness and treatment, endocrinology, neurobiology and bioengineering as well as his own specialty of gynecology and obstetrics.\n\nHe is the author of the medical textbook \"Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis\", considered to be a classic instructional aid in the use of hypnosis in medical settings, as well as co-authoring \"Psychosomatic Gynecology, Including Problems of Obstetrical Care\" and \"Hypnosis and Behavior Modification: Imagery Conditioning\", among others.\n\nKroger was born in Evanston, Illinois.\n\nKroger's interest in hypnosis began at an early age when his father, Charles Mendel Kroger, hired a local hypnotist to generate publicity for his fur store. The hypnotist deeply hypnotized his assistant, then buried and awoke her. This inspired him to attempt to hypnotize other children in his neighborhood at age 13.\n\nKroger attended Northwestern University and received his pre-medical degree in 1926.\n\nAfter receiving his bachelor's degree, he joined a psychoanalytic study club, which became the Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis and underwent his own analysis.\n\nHe received his medical training at the Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern University, obtaining his Doctor of Medicine in 1930. He pursued his interest in psychotherapy by taking coursework and pursued an expertise in analytic concepts under the direction of Sigmund Freud's student and founder of psychosomatic medicine, Franz Alexander.\n\nKroger demonstrated the use of hypnosis on a breast surgery procedure on closed-circuit television for a national meeting of anesthesiologists in the removal of a benign growth and on another occasion in 1956 in Edgewater Hospital. \"Time\" magazine, which was covering the latter meeting, wrote an article about Kroger's use of hypnosis.\n\nA week earlier, he had performed the same procedure on another patient in Chicago who suffered from an enlarged and overactive thyroid. Kroger carried out the \"hypnoanesthesia\" at Edgewater Hospital, where the patient's thyroid was removed in an hour-long operation. Following the surgery and after being de-hypnotized, the patient stood up from the gurney, asked for a sip of water and walked to her wheelchair to return to her room. She is quoted as saying, \"I felt no pain. I could only feel pressure and what seemed like tugging at my throat.\"\n\nThe procedure was captured for the first time in the film \"Thyroidectomy Under Hypoanesthsia\". Kroger also participated in anesthetizing an expectant mother in \"Hypnosis in Obstetrics\", which was also the first occasion on which hypnotism's use in delivery was filmed. Both educational movies were intended as teaching aids at medical schools, hospitals and scientific meetings and were produced by Wexler Films (now out of business). The first film was rereleased and included on DVD with the second edition of \"Clinical & Experimental Hypnosis\". The text, featuring an introduction by Michael D. Yapko, is a republication of the second edition, originally printed in 1977; the first edition was published in 1963. He also produced the medical film \"Hypnosis in Dentistry\".\n\nAn early member and co-founder of the Society for Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis (SCEH), a professional hypnosis society for researchers founded in 1949, Kroger later co-founded the American Society of Clinical Hypnosis with Milton H. Erickson, which included clinicians into their ranks. He was also founder of the Institute for Comprehensive Medicine and the International Society for Comprehensive Medicine, and the Academy of Psychosomatic Medicine.\n\nKroger organized and conducted multiple-day teaching seminars at major medical schools and medical societies from 1950 to the 1980s.\n\nThe journal \"Psychosomatics\" was launched during his tenure as head of the Academy of Psychosomatic Medicine, and he served as its associate editor. Kroger was also the associate editor of \"Mind\"; consulting editor of \"The Journal of Sex Research\"; advisory editor of the \"International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis\"; associate editor of \"Existential Psychiatry\" and consulting editor of the \"Western Journal of Surgery, Obstetrics and Gynecology\" where he wrote a guest column entitled \"Psychosomatics and Hypnosis\".\n\nHis textbook, \"Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis\", was described as being a \"definitive textbook on the subject\" and defined and shaped the field of hypnosis for over 20 years after its publication. Through the text and his own seminars put on by the ASCH, he changed the perception of hypnosis as being a novelty to a legitimate and respected medical option.\n\nKroger was a faculty member of the University of Illinois College of Medicine and also practiced privately. However, his use of hypnosis in medical practice was not accepted by the medical community. He later became an associate professor at the Chicago Medical School in 1950. Later, he was involved in the establishment of the Psychosomatic Clinic at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Chicago and became its first director. During this time he advanced his knowledge of endocrinology and neurobiology. The integration of his research and experience led to a collaboration with co-author S. Charles Freed in \"Psychosomatic Gynecology, Including Problems of Obstetrical Care\", a textbook which argued that hypnosis had a place and merit in the medical field. It was reviewed by many medical journals and praised as an authoritative work and an instant classic.\n\nKroger wrote 13 books and more than 200 journal articles, as well as contributing forewords and introductions to books on the subject of hypnosis. His scientific exhibits, Hypnotherapy in Obstetrics and Gynecology, and Hypnotherapy in General Practice, have been held by the American Medical Association, the American Academy of General Practice (twice by invitation), the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American Psychiatric Association and others.\n\nIn 1979, Kroger wrote \"Hypnosis in Medical Investigation\" with Richard C. Douce. an FBI special agent and psychology doctoral candidate. Kroger had been consulted on the use of hypnosis in ongoing investigations, and was asked by the FBI to evaluate the quality of information obtained through hypnosis in producing leads.\n\nOne of the cases Kroger and Douce study in the article is the 1976 Chowchilla kidnapping. The FBI asked Kroger to question a school bus driver who was kidnapped along with 26 children. Under Kroger's hypnosis, the driver was able to recall all but one of the digits on the kidnappers' car's license plate, and the kidnappers were subsequently convicted.\n\nKroger taught and trained FBI agents in hypnosis techniques and assisted in more than 30 cases, sometimes in conjunction with the FBI's Behavioral Analysis Unit. He also consulted for the Los Angeles Police Department and other law enforcement agencies in the investigation of major crimes.\n\nKroger maintained a private practice in Beverly Hills and Palm Springs, California from 1960 until his retirement in 1986.\n\nKroger died at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California on December 4, 1995. He was buried at Forest Lawn - Hollywood Hills.\n\nKroger authored 13 books which include:\n\n\nHe contributed the chapters \"Hypnosis in Obstetrics\" and \"Hypnosis in Gynecology\" in Prior's \"System of Obstetrics and Gynecology\" and to other books.\n\nKroger has also authored over 200 articles in medical journals such as the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\", the \"American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology\", the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\" and \"The Journal of Sex Research\".\n\n"}
{"id": "46871463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46871463", "title": "World Milk Day", "text": "World Milk Day\n\nWorld Milk Day is a day established by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations to recognize the importance of milk as a global food. It has been observed on June 1 each year since 2001. The day is intended to provide an opportunity to bring attention to activities that are connected with the dairy sector.\n\nWorld Milk Day was first designated by the FAO in 2001. June 1 was chosen as the date because many countries were already celebrating a milk day during that time of year.\n\nThe Day provides an opportunity to focus attention on milk and raise awareness of dairy’s part in healthy diets, responsible food production, and supporting livelihoods and communities. This is supported by FAO data showing that more than one billion people's livelihoods are supported by the dairy sector, and that dairy is consumed by more than six billion people globally. The fact that many countries choose to do this on the same day lends additional importance to individual national celebrations and shows that milk is a global food.\n\nIn 2016, World Milk Day was celebrated in over 40 countries. Activities included marathons and family runs, milking demonstrations and farm visits, school-based activities, concerts, conferences and seminars, competitions and a range of events focusing on promoting the value of milk and illustrating the important role played by the dairy industry in the national economy.\n\nIn 2018, there were 586 recorded World Milk Day events in 72 countries, and 1.1 billion impressions of #WorldMilkDay and #RaiseAGlass on social media. This represented a four-fold increase in impressions over 2017.\n\nCelebrations will happen again on June 1, 2019.\n\nDespite overwhelming positive reaction to World Milk Day globally, some individuals attempt to promote their own anti-dairy agenda and misinformation such as \"concerns about unfounded health claims of dairy, as well as recognition for the animal abuse in the dairy industry\". This includes the attempt to create a \"World Plant Milk Day\" on August 22, which is has the important distinction of being an unrecognized day by the FAO, or any official governing or policy-recommending body. The movement is promoted by the use of the #WorldPlantMilkDay hashtag.\n\n"}
