{"id": "36078000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36078000", "title": "(410777) 2009 FD", "text": "(410777) 2009 FD\n\n(410777) 2009 FD is a carbonaceous sub-kilometer asteroid and binary system, classified as near-Earth object and potentially hazardous asteroid of the Apollo group, discovered on 24 February 2009, by astronomers of the Spacewatch program at Kitt Peak National Observatory near Tucson, Arizona, in the United States.\n\nThe asteroid's orbit places it at risk of a possible future collision with Earth in 2185. It has the third highest cumulative impact threat of all known asteroids on the Palermo Technical Impact Hazard Scale based on its estimated diameter of 160 meters, kinetic yield, impact probability, and time interval.\n\n was initially announced as discovered on 16 March 2009 by La Sagra Sky Survey. Because there were previous observations found in images taken by the Spacewatch survey some 3 weeks prior, on 24 February 2009, the Minor Planet Center assigned the discovery credit to Spacewatch under the discovery assignment rules. made a close pass to Earth on 27 March 2009 at a distance of and another on 24 October 2010 at 0.0702 AU. was recovered at apparent magnitude 23</ref> on 30 November 2013 by Cerro Paranal Observatory, several months before the close approach of April 2014 when it passed 0.1 AU from Earth. It brightened to roughly apparent magnitude 19.3 around mid-March 2014. One radar Doppler observation of was made in 2014. The October–November 2015 Earth approach will be studied by the Goldstone Deep Space Network.\n\nNASA's Near Earth Program originally estimated its size to be 130 metres in diameter based on an assumed albedo of 0.15. This gave it an estimated mass of around 2,800,000 tonnes. But work by Amy Mainzer using NEOWISE data in 2014 showed that it could be as large as 472 metres with an albedo as low as 0.01. Because (K09F00D) was only detected in two (W1 + W2) of the four wavelengths the suspected NEOWISE diameter is more of an upper limit. Radar observations in 2015 showed it to be a binary asteroid. The primary is 120–180 meters in diameter and the secondary is 60–120 meters in diameter.\n\nThe JPL Small-Body Database shows that will make two very close approaches in the late 22nd century, with the approach of 29 March 2185 currently having a 1 in 710 chance of impacting Earth. The nominal 2185 Earth approach distance is . Orbit determination for 2190 is complicated by the 2185 close approach. The precise distance that it will pass from Earth and the Moon on 29 March 2185 will determine the 30 March 2190 distance. should pass closer to the Moon than Earth on 29 March 2185. An impact by would cause severe devastation to a large region or tsunamis of significant size.\n\nIn January 2011, near-Earth asteroid (with observations through 7 December 2010) was listed on the JPL Sentry Risk Table with a 1 in 435 chance of impacting Earth on 29 March 2185. In 2014 (with observations through 5 February 2014 creating an observation arc of 1807 days) the potential 2185 impact was ruled out. Using the 2014 observations, the Yarkovsky effect has become more significant than the position uncertainties. The Yarkovsky effect has resulted in the 2185 virtual impactor returning. While was estimated to be 470 meters in diameter, it was rated −0.40 on the Palermo Scale, placing it higher on the Sentry Risk Table than any other known object at the time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20842572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20842572", "title": "Acrylic rubber", "text": "Acrylic rubber\n\nAcrylic rubber, known by the chemical name alkyl acrylate copolymer (ACM) or the tradename HyTemp, is a type of rubber that has outstanding resistance to hot oil and oxidation. It belongs to specialty rubbers. It has a continuous working temperature of and an intermittent limit of . ACM is polar and doesn't contain unsaturation. It is resistant to ozone and has low permeability to gases.\nIts disadvantage is its low resistance to moisture, acids, and bases. It should not be used in temperatures below .\n\nIt is commonly used in automotive transmissions and hoses. It is also used in shaft seals, adhesives, beltings, gaskets and O-rings. It is used in vibration damping mounts due to the damping properties.\n"}
{"id": "39070182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39070182", "title": "Admete (Oceanid)", "text": "Admete (Oceanid)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Admete (; \"the unbroken\" or \"unwedded, untamed\") or Admeta, was one of the Oceanids, daughters of Oceanus and Tethys. Along with her other sisters, she was one of the companions of Persephone in Sicily when the god Hades abducted the daughter of Demeter. Hyginus in the preface to his fables calls her Admeto.\n"}
{"id": "35912969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35912969", "title": "Aeromedical Isolation Team", "text": "Aeromedical Isolation Team\n\nThe Aeromedical Isolation Team (AIT, or SMART-AIT) of the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) at Fort Detrick, Maryland was a military rapid response team with worldwide airlift capability designed to safely evacuate and manage contagious patients under high-level (BSL-4) bio-containment conditions. Created in 1978, during its final years the AIT was one of MEDCOM’s Special Medical Augmentation Response Teams (SMART teams) comprising a portable containment laboratory along with its transit isolators for patient transport. Contingency missions included bioterrorism scenarios as well as the extraction of scientists with exotic infections from remote sites in foreign countries. The AIT trained continuously and was often put on alert status, but only deployed for “real world” missions four times. The AIT was decommissioned in 2010 and its mission assumed by one of the US Air Force’s Critical Care Air Transport Teams (CCATTs).\n\nThe AIT was created in 1978 for purposes of contingency air evacuation of a hypothetical USAMRIID researcher who might become exposed to a highly infectious pathogen while undertaking endemic surveillance in remote areas of the world where a suspected or known disease outbreak was occurring. At the core of AIT operations was its specialized equipment, notably the Aircraft Transit Isolator (ATI). Developed by Vickers in the U.K. in the 1970s — and manufactured in later years by Elwyn Roberts Isolators, Shropshire, UK, until 2007 — the ATI was a self-contained unit capable of transporting a patient with a highly virulent disease and at the same time providing maximum microbiological security while full nursing care and treatment are rendered. It was designed to minimize the risk of transmission to air crews and caregivers, whether military or civilian. The interior of the isolator was maintained at a pressure negative to the external environment by a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filtered blower. The isolator could be attached directly to a transfer port, situated on the external wall of the main USAMRIID building, to allow movement of the patient into a BSL-4 medical care suite without exposing the environment to the patient. While moving the isolator, team members wore protective suits and positive-pressure, HEPA-filtered Racal hoods (manufactured by Racal Health & Safety, Inc, Frederick, Maryland).\n\nThroughout its existence the AIT was associated with a BSL-4 Medical Containment Suite (MCS, called “the Slammer”) at USAMRIID for ICU-level patient care under biocontainment. The MCS was built in 1969 and became operational in 1972; it was the destination to which contagious patients were to be removed by the AIT. Over the years the scope of the AIT/MCS mission was expanded to include U.S. military personnel, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and U.S. citizens or foreign nationals deemed to be in need of service by the U.S. Department of State. Occasionally, the AIT trained with similar teams of foreign allies.\n\nIn 2007, due to the death of Mr Roberts, the ATI and associated products ceased to be manufactured. During 2008-2010, the AIT began preliminary training with, and testing of, a new transit isolator product — the Patient Isolation Unit (PIU) — developed by the Gentex Corporation under a contract with the U.S. Air Force.\n\nThe AIT was decommissioned — along with the MCS — in 2010 and its mission was assumed by one of the US Air Force’s Critical Care Air Transport Teams (CCATTs). The Air Force’s capabilities, however, do not meet the standard of biocontainment (BSL-4) facilities, but rather represent enhanced patient isolation. No BSL-4 ICU facility has replaced the Army's former MCS to date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22135800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22135800", "title": "Anglo-American Petroleum Agreement", "text": "Anglo-American Petroleum Agreement\n\nThe Anglo-American Petroleum Agreement or Washington Agreement (August 8, 1944) was a failed attempt by the British and American governments to establish a lasting agreement to manage international petroleum supply and demand. The agreement would have established the International Petroleum Commission for the purposes of balancing discordant supply and demand, managing surplus, and bringing order and stability to a market laden with oversupply, similar to the Texas Railroad Commission in the United States. After being concluded, the agreement faced near total opposition from the petroleum industry, prompting U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt to withdraw the treaty from ratification consideration and abandon the agreement.\n"}
{"id": "11180149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11180149", "title": "Arctic ecology", "text": "Arctic ecology\n\nArctic ecology is the scientific study of the relationships between biotic and abiotic factors in the arctic, the region north of the Arctic Circle (66 33’). This is a region characterized by stressful conditions as a result of extreme cold, low precipitation, a limited growing season (50–90 days) and virtually no sunlight throughout the winter. The Arctic consists of taiga (or boreal forest) and tundra biomes, which also dominate very high elevations, even in the tropics. Sensitive ecosystems exist throughout the Arctic region, which are being impacted dramatically by global warming. The earliest inhabitants of the Arctic were the Neanderthals. Since then, many indigenous populations have inhabited the region, which continues to this day. Since the early 1900s, when Vilhjalmur Stefansson led the first major Canadian Arctic Expedition, the Arctic has been a valued area for ecological research. In 1946, The Arctic Research Laboratory was established in Point Barrow, Alaska under the contract of the Office of Naval Research. This launched an interest in exploring the Arctic examining animal cycles, permafrost and the interactions between indigenous peoples and the Arctic ecology. During the Cold War, the Arctic became a place where the United States, Canada, and the Soviet Union performed significant research that has been essential to the study of climate change in recent years. A major reason why research in the Arctic is essential for the study of climate change is because the effects of climate change will be felt more quickly and more drastically in higher latitudes of the world as above average temperatures are predicted for Northwest Canada and Alaska. From an anthropological point of view, researchers study the native Inuit peoples of Alaska as they have become extremely accustomed to adapting to ecological and climate variability.\n\nTo understand Arctic ecology, it is important to consider both the terrestrial and oceanic aspects of the region. A few important parts of this environment are sea ice and permafrost.\n\nSea ice is frozen seawater that moves with oceanic currents; it provides important habitat and a resting place for animals, particularly during the winter months. Over time, small pockets of salty seawater get trapped in the ice, and the salt is squeezed out. This causes the ice to become progressively less salty. Sea ice persists throughout the year, but there is less ice available during summer months.\n\nLarge portions of the land are also frozen during the year. Permafrost is substrate that has been frozen for a minimum of 2 years. There are two types of permafrost: discontinuous and continuous. Discontinuous permafrost is found in areas where the mean annual air temperature is only slightly below freezing (); this forms in sheltered locations. In areas where the mean annual soil surface temperature is below , continuous permafrost forms. This is not limited to sheltered areas and ranges from a few inches below the surface to over deep. The top layer is called the active layer. It thaws in the summer and is critical to plant life.\n\nMoisture and temperature are major physical drivers of natural ecosystems. The more arid and colder conditions found at higher northern latitudes (and high elevations elsewhere) support tundra and boreal forests. The water in this region is generally frozen and evaporation rates are very low. Species diversity, nutrient availability, precipitation, and average temperatures increase as you move from the tundra to boreal forests and then to deciduous temperate ecosystems, which are found south of these Arctic biomes.\n\nTundra is found from 55 ° to 80° N latitude in North America, Eurasia and Greenland. It can be found at lower latitudes at high elevations as well. The average temperature is ; during the summer it is less than . Average precipitation ranges from , and the permafrost is thick. Plant species supported by tundra have small leaves, are short (74 mm to <5 m), tend to be deciduous, have a high ratio of roots to shoots, and are composed mainly of perennial forbs, dwarf shrubs, grasses, lichens, and mosses.\n\nIn comparison to tundra, boreal forest has a longer and warmer growing season and supports larger species diversity, an increase in canopy height, vegetation density, and biomass. Boreal conditions can be found across northern North America and Eurasia. The boreal forests in the interior of the continents grow on top of permafrost due to very cold winters (see drunken trees), while much of the boreal forest has patchy permafrost or lack permafrost completely. The short (3–4 month) growing season in boreal forests is sustained by greater levels of rainfall (between per year) than the tundra receives; This biome is dominated by closed canopy forests of evergreen conifers, especially spruces, fir, pine and tamarack with some diffuse-porous hardwoods. Shrubs, herbs, ferns, mosses, and lichens are also important species. Stand-replacing crown fires are very important to this biome, occurring as frequently as every 50–100 years in some parts.\n\nHumans living in the Arctic region generally rely on warm clothing and buildings to protect them from the elements. Acclimatization, or the adjustment to new conditions, appears to be the most common form of adaptation to cold environments. No genetic advantage has been found when different people groups or races are compared. There is no evidence that fat is grown in response to cold, although its presence is advantageous. Amazingly, most people living in the Arctic region live a lifestyle very connected to the environment, spending significant time outside and depending heavily on hunting and fishing.\n\nAnimals that are active in the winter have adaptations for surviving the intense cold. A common example is the presence of strikingly large feet in proportion to body weight. These act like snowshoes, and can be found on animals like the snowshoe hare and caribou. Many of the animals in the Arctic are larger than their temperate counterparts (Bergmann’s rule), taking advantage of the smaller ratio of surface area to volume that comes with increasing size. This increases the ability to conserve heat. Layers of fat, plumage, and fur are also very effective insulators to help retain warmth and are common in Arctic animals including polar bears and marine mammals. Some animals also have digestive adaptations to improve their ability to digest woody plants either with or without the aid of microbial organisms. This is highly advantageous during the winter months when most soft vegetation is beneath the snow pack.\n\nNot all Arctic animals directly face the rigors of winter. Many migrate to warmer climates at lower latitudes, while others avoid the difficulties of winter by hibernating until spring. Although these options might seem to be easy solutions to the difficulties of surviving an extreme environment, both are very expensive in terms of energy and risk of predation.\n\nOne of the most serious problems that plants face is ice crystal formation in the cells, which results in tissue death. Plants have two ways to resist freezing: avoid it or tolerate it. If a plant has taken the avoidance route, it has several different ways to evade freezing. It can build up insulation, have its stem close to the ground, use the insulation from snow cover, and supercool. When supercooling, water is able to remain in its liquid state down to (compared to its usual freezing point). After water reaches , it spontaneously freezes and plant tissue is destroyed. This is called the nucleation point. The nucleation point can be lowered if dissolved solutes are present.\n\nIf a plant has taken the tolerance route, it has several different ways to tolerate freezing. Some plants allow freezing by allowing extracellular, but not intracellular freezing. Plants let water freeze in extracellular spaces, which creates a high vapor deficit that pulls water vapor out of the cell. This process dehydrates the cell and allows it to survive temperatures well below .\n\nAnother problem associated with extreme cold is cavitation. Ring-porous wood is susceptible to cavitation because the large pores that are used for water transport easily freeze. Cavitation is much less of problem in trees with ring-diffuse wood. In ring-diffuse wood, there is a reduced risk of cavitation, as transport pores are smaller. The trade-off is that these species are not able to transport water as efficiently.\n\nMany different peoples had inhabited present-day Canada and Alaska by AD 1000. Most of these people lived by hunting, gathering and fishing and never; agriculture was never done often in the region. Most of these peoples were nomadic and their activity was largely seasonal. Early Archaic Culture influenced the Plano Culture by about 8000 BC. The Plano peoples and other cultural groups stemming from the Archaic Culture were notable for their use of spear-throwing technology, which likely made them able to maintain larger populations and expand their access to different foods. By AD 1000, the indigenous Arctic inhabitants have also developed other tools that improved their standard of living, such as fire, which was set to the woodlands to be used to drive deer to be hunted.\n\nIn the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, English scientist William Scoresby explored the Arctic and wrote reports on its meteorology, zoology and geophysics. Around this time, the Arctic region was becoming a major subject of imperial science. Though permanent observatories were not yet established, traveling scientists began to gather magnetic data in the Arctic in the early nineteenth century. In June 1831, Sir James Ross and a group of Eskimos explored the Booth Peninsula in order to determine the exact location of the Magnetic North Pole. In the European Arctic, however, Scandinavian powers collected most of the scientific data as a result of early colonies established by Norsemen in Iceland and Greenland. Scientific expeditions to the Arctic started to happen more frequently by the middle of the nineteenth century. From 1338-1840, French La Recherche went on an expedition to the North Atlantic with a team of French, Danish, Norwegian and Swedish scientists. Between 1856 and 1914, the Swedes made about twenty-five expeditions to the Arctic island of Spitsbergen in Norway. As the Swedes expanded their influence in Spitsbergen, they used the area for economic as well as scientific motives through mining and resource extraction. During this time, the United States, Russia, Great Britain, Austria, Switzerland, Norway, and Germany also started to become more active in Spitsbergen.\n\nIn 1946, The Arctic Research Laboratory was established under the contract of the Office of Naval Research in Point Barrow, Alaska for the purpose of investigating the physical and biological phenomena unique to the Arctic. In 1948, Dr. Laurence Irving was appointed as the Scientific Director of the Arctic Research Laboratory and put in charge of coordinating various projects. Scientists performed fieldwork to collect data that linked new observations to prior widely accepted knowledge. Through the processes of soil sampling, surveying and photographing landscapes and distributing salmon tags, scientists demonstrated the significance of historical case studies in the study of environmental science. The ability to compare past and present data allowed scientists to understand the causes and effects of ecological changes. Around this time, geographers from McGill University were developing new methods of studying geography in the North. As laboratory research was beginning to trump field research, McGill geographers implemented use of aviation in research, helping knowledge production to occur in the laboratory instead of in the field. Aviation allowed researchers to remould the way they studied the Northern landscape and indigenous people. Quick and easy travel using aircraft also promoted an integration of the Northern science with Southern community-based science, while changing the scale of ecology being studied. The ability to photograph, and observe the Arctic from an aircraft, provided researchers with a larger scope that allowed them to see a massive amount of space at one time, while also asserting objectivity. A photograph produces evidence, similar to laboratory data, yet it can be understood, circulated and accepted by the common people due to its aesthetic value.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Canadian government began taking initiatives to secure the continent, and to assert territorial authority over northern Canada, including the Arctic, which at the time had a dominant American presence. The Canadian government demonstrated their desire for national dominance and security by requiring permission from other nations to utilize their land for military initiatives. They also supported and implemented civilian initiatives including resource development, wildlife conservation and the social and economic development of indigenous peoples. In 1950’s, ecologist Charles Elton was drawn to the Arctic to study the existence, causes and effects of cycles in animal populations, while ecologists Frank Banfield and John Kelsal studied the factors, especially human impacts, influencing hunting and game populations on animals such as caribou. The 1960s and 1970s brought a decrease in the desire to protect the Arctic as it was seen to lack a significant amount of biodiversity. This allowed for scientists to extend further research in the area. In June 1960, the Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory (CRREL) was constructed, headed by General Duncan Hallock and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The two predecessor organizations that made up the CRREL were the Arctic Construction and Frost Effects Laboratory (ACFEL), and the Snow, Ice and Permafrost Research Establishment (SIPRE). The goal of the CREEL laboratory was to bring together the ACFEL and SIPRE to expand the size and scientific reputation of these organizations, solve problems in cold regions and explore the basic environmental characteristics of cold regions. As a result, study and management of the Arctic was taken over by consulting firms hired and controlled by the government.\n\nAs research in the Arctic region of northern North America became more frequent, conflicts between researchers and the indigenous peoples started to occur. Recently, the indigenous communities of the North American Arctic have played a direct role in setting ethical standards for research in the region. Scientists have combined the use of laboratory research and field research in the Polar Regions to gain a more comprehensive understanding of its characteristics. Because of scientific research in the north, living in and traveling to the Arctic has become much safer. However, the indigenous peoples viewed the effects of the research and development in the area differently than the scientists did. Since the 1960s, indigenous peoples have been more politically active and began pursuing the recognition of their rights regarding land-claims and self-government institutions. Indigenous communities voiced their concern that this research could lead to undesirable changes to the region’s landscape and economy. Canadian officials responded to their concerns by addressing the responsibility of scientists to consult with indigenous communities before conducting research. In 1977, the Association of Canadian Universities for Northern Studies (ACUNS) was founded at Churchill, Manitoba to improve scientific activity in the region. ACUNS published a document aimed at promoting cooperation between the northern indigenous people and researchers called \"Ethical Principles for the Conduct of Research in the North (1982)\". The document was published in English, French, and Inuktitut so it could be clearly understood among different groups. Relationships between science and society in the Arctic continue to change and adapt based on the politics of the region.\n\nEvidence has been found of early humans in the early Würm-Weichsel period hunting large Arctic mammals in the Ice Age steppes of northern Europe. However, it is still unclear whether these humans were just temporary migrants or inhabitants of Arctic colonies at the time.\n\nThe earliest inhabitants of the polar regions were the Neanderthals, or \"Homo neanderthalensis\", who are considered to be an intermediate stage between \"Homo erectus\" and \"Homo sapiens sapiens\". The Neandertalers made advances in the basic production of stone, bone antler and flint tools, which archaeologists call a Mousterian industry. About 40,000 years ago, the Neandertalers quickly disappeared and were replaced by modern humans, \"Homo sapiens sapiens\". Just a few thousand years after the sudden disappearance of the Neandertalers, modern humans occupied all the land that their predecessors had occupied. Some scientists believe that the Neandertalers were overcome by the incoming modern race, commonly called Cro-Magnon people, while others believe the race disappeared by integrating itself within the new population.\n\nThe Aurignacoid (upper Paleolithic tool-making) tradition of the modern people is most associated with a feature called blade-and-core technology. According to Quaternary scientist C.V. Haynes, Arctic cave art also dates back to the Aurignacoid phase and climaxes during the end of the Pleistocene, which encompasses subjects such as hunting and spirituality. People stemming from the Clovis culture populated northern regions of Canada and formed what led to the Northern Archaic and Maritime Archaic traditions at the end of the Late Glacial period. Recently, small flint tools and artifacts from about 5,000 years ago were discovered that belonged to a culture now generally called the Arctic Small Tool tradition. The ASTt people are believed to be the physical and cultural ancestors of modern arctic Inuit.\n\nIn the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century, as European trade interests among the Northwest Company and the Hudson's Bay Company expanded into northern Canada, arctic indigenous peoples began to become more involved in the trade process. Increasingly more European goods, including kettles, iron tools, tobacco, alcohol, and guns, were bought and traded by the indigenous peoples within their communities. European imports in exchange for more primitive, native resources and tools made life for the indigenous more efficient and comfortable. Native societies in the early eighteenth century also began to buy guns from European traders, and these guns made hunting easier. They were also occasionally used in native etiquette, medicinal, and religious practices. Because of the natives' increased hunting efficiency, scarcity of resources became an issue in the region, a version of what American human ecologist Garrett Hardin called \"the tragedy of the commons.\"\n\nThe Arctic peoples value spiritual connections with their environment, which leads to a spiritual understanding along with their scientific understanding. Their lifestyles, therefore, reflect not only activity that is economically efficient but also that which is in line with their spiritual beliefs and values. The Alaskan Athabascan people, for example, spiritually value the moose. State law acknowledges this spiritual belief and allows people to take moose for potlatches outside of the usual hunting season. The indigenous peoples of the Arctic drawn from scientific, emotional and spiritual sources of information, which often does not agree with non-indigenous scientific observations.\n\nSuspected worldwide anthropogenic climate change has been particularly evident in the Arctic. This is evident by warmer temperatures, melting glaciers, shorter durations of sea ice and changing weather and storm patterns. Scientists are especially concerned about four aspects of the continued projected warming of the Arctic.\n\nFirst, thermohaline circulation is a series of underwater oceanic currents fueled by the salinity and temperature of seawater. Melting ice sheets would introduce vast amounts of fresh water into the North Atlantic, causing a change in density which could disrupt the currents. If this circulation slowed or stopped, the climates of northern Europe and North America would be strongly impacted.\n\nSecond, the melting of glaciers and sea ice is disrupting the lifestyles of a wide range of species. Polar bears live on the sea ice for much of the year and find their food in the surrounding ocean waters. Recent projections suggest that global warming will lead to the disappearance of most summer sea ice within 40 years.\n\nA third practical concern is the melting of permafrost due to climate change. Degradation of this permafrost is leading to major ground surface subsidence and pounding. The ground is literally melting away in many regions of the Arctic. The locations of towns and communities that have been inhabited for centuries are now in jeopardy. A condition known as drunken tree syndrome is being caused by this melting. Ground water and river runoffs are being negatively impacted as well. Although warming conditions might increase uptake for photosynthetic organisms in some places, scientists are concerned that melting permafrost will also release large amounts of carbon locked in permafrost. Higher temperatures increase soil decomposition and if soil decomposition becomes higher than net primary production, global atmospheric carbon dioxide will in turn increase. Atmospheric sinks in the water table are also being reduced as the permafrost melts and decreases the height of the water table in the Arctic.\n\nFinally, the impacts of the release of carbon from the permafrost could be amplified by high levels of deforestation in the Boreal forests in Eurasia and Canada. This biome currently serves as a large carbon sink, sequestering large amounts of carbon dioxide. However, over half of the original forest has been or in danger of harvesting, largely for export. Carbon Dioxide is a greenhouse gas, which facilitates increased warming of the earth.\n\nIn a meta analysis of the published work in aquatic ecosystems since the term biodiversity appeared in the bibliography, the Arctic and Antarctic Polar regions were found to be still unexplored. In addition, the North Pacific Ocean (Pacific Northeast and Pacific Northwest), still has few citations in comparison to its large size. This limits our perception of the world’s aquatic biodiversity. Consequently, we do not have sufficient information about biodiversity in most places on earth. Even though biodiversity declines from the equator to the poles in terrestrial ecosystems, this is still a hypothesis to be tested in aquatic and especially marine ecosystems where causes of this phenomenon are unclear. In addition, particularly in marine ecosystems, there are several well stated cases where diversity in higher latitudes actually increases (Moustakas & Karakassis 2005). Therefore, the lack of information on biodiversity of Arctic Regions prevents scientific conclusions on the distribution of the world’s aquatic biodiversity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53506637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53506637", "title": "Aristides Rojas Natural Monument", "text": "Aristides Rojas Natural Monument\n\nThe Arístides Rojas Natural Monument () Also Morros de San Juan Is a protected natural space located in the Guárico State in the north-center of the South American country of Venezuela. It is a system of limestone rock formed by the deposition of marine sediments. It is located in the neighborhood of San Juan de Los Morros.\n\nFrom its highest point you can see the city in a panoramic view. It was declared a natural monument in 1949 are located in the northwest of Guárico, in the vicinity of San Juan de los Morros, capital of the Guárico state. Taking the regional highway of the center are to 2 hours of Caracas. It is about hills of reef limestone rocks that rise in a toothed form which had their evolution when an ancient sea covered this area 80 million years ago. It presents the formation of numerous caves of small size.\n\nIts main attraction is the hills, geological formations that rise up to 1,060 meters, consisting of reef limestone dating 80 million years ago. There visitors often practice climbing, a sport for which there are several schools in the town of San Juan, who are responsible for making the transfers and training necessary for such activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "56129398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56129398", "title": "Bangladesh Hydrocarbon Unit", "text": "Bangladesh Hydrocarbon Unit\n\nBangladesh Hydrocarbon Unit is an government agency in the Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources responsible for providing the government of Bangladesh technical recommendation on the extraction of hydrocarbon resources and is located in Dhaka, Bangladesh. It carries out research on the gas and petroleum reserves of Bangladesh.\n\nBangladesh Hydrocarbon Unit traces its origin to a project called Strengthening of the Hydrocarbon Unit in the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources on July 1999. The project was financed by the government of Norway. The Hydrocarbon unit signed an agreement with the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate of the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy for technical assistance. The project ended on December 2005. From April 2006 the government of Bangladesh started the second phrase of the project. The second phrase was financed by a Norwegian Government Grant and it was administered by the Asian Development Bank. The government made the project a permanent bureau of the ministry on 28 May 2008. It was awarded by Asian Development Bank as one of the performing projects.\n"}
{"id": "36009567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36009567", "title": "Bangladesh Power Development Board", "text": "Bangladesh Power Development Board\n\nThe Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) was created as a public sector organization to boost the country’s power sector after the emergence of Bangladesh as an independent state in 1972. The organization is responsible for planning and developing the nation's power infrastructure and for operating much of its power generation facilities.<br>\nThe BPDB is responsible for the major portion of generation and distribution of electricity mainly in urban areas of the country. The Board is now under the Power Division of the Bangladesh Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources.\n\nThe predecessor of the BPDB was the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) of Pakistan. Subsequently, the Rural Electrification Board (REB) and the Dhaka Electric Supply Authority (DESA) now Dhaka Electric Supply Company Limited (DESCO) were created. PDB was dominated by trade unions and the consistent operation at loss concerned the government. In 2017 PDB was made a holding company by the government of Bangladesh. it is now the parent company of Ashuganj Power Station Company Ltd, Coal Power Generation Company Bangladesh Limited, Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh, Dhaka Electric Supply Company Limited, Dhaka Power Distribution Company Limited, North West Power Generation Company Limited, North West Zone Power Distribution Company Limited, and West Zone Power Distribution Company Limited.\n\nAs of June 2010, in FY 2009–2010, BPDB had a total installed capacity of 5823 MW at 88 units (BPDB 3719 MW at 50 units and IPP, SIPP & Rental at 38 units) in power plants located in different parts of the country.\n\nThe main fuel used for power generation in BPDB plants is indigenous natural gas. BPDP operations also include projects that utilize renewable power sources including offshore wind power generation. A total of 17,079 GWh gross energy was generated in the public sector power plants operated by BPDB in 2010. In addition, a total of 11,327 GWh of energy was purchased by BPDB from Independent Power Producers (IPP, SIPP & Rental) in the private sector.\n\nThe maximum demand served during peak hours was 4698.5 MW on August 20, 2010. The transmission network is 8465 circuit kilometers long comprising 230, 132 and 66 kV lines. The total number of grid sub-stations is 108 and the total capacity is 16,749 MVA as of June 2010.\n\nIn FY 2010–11, BPDB had about 12,516 employees.\n\nAs of November 2013, Installed Generation capacity has increased to 10213 MW.\n"}
{"id": "12667266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12667266", "title": "Brazilin", "text": "Brazilin\n\nBrazilin is a red pigment obtained from the wood of the brazilwood family (\"Caesalpinia sp\"), and is also known as Natural Red 24. Brazilin has been used since at least the Middle Ages to dye fabric, and has been used to make paints and inks as well. The specific color produced by the pigment depends on its manner of preparation: in an acidic solution brazilin will appear yellow, but in an alkaline preparation it will appear red. Brazilin is closely related to the blue-black dye precursor hematoxylin, having one fewer hydroxyl group. Brazilein is an oxidized form of brazilin.\n\nMany members of the genus \"Caesalpinia\" produce brazilin, including brazilwood (\"C. echinata\") and sappanwood (\"C. sappan\"). The sappanwood is found in India, Malaysia, Indonesia and Sri Lanka, the latter being a major supplier of the wood to Europe during the early Middle Ages. Later, discovery of brazilwood in the new world led to its rise in popularity with the dye industry and eventually its over-exploitation. Brazilwood is now classified as an endangered species.\n\nThere are many ways to extract and prepare brazilin. A common recipe, developed in the Middle Ages, is to first powder the brazilwood, turning it into sawdust. Then, the powder can be soaked in lye (which produces a deep, purplish red) or a hot solution of alum (which produces an orange-red color), either of which extracts the color better than plain water alone. To the lye extract, alum is added (or to the alum extract, lye) in order to fix the color, which will precipitate from the solution. The precipitate can be dried and powdered, and is a type of lake pigment.\n\nLike many lake pigments, the exact colors produced depends on the pH of the mixture and the fixative used. Aluminum mordants used with brazilin produce the standard red colors, while the use of a tin mordant, in the form of SnCl or SnCl added to the extract is capable of yielding a pink color.\n\nAn alternative preparation which produces a transparent red color involves soaking the brazilwood powder in glair or a solution of gum arabic. Alum is added to help develop and fix the color, which can then be used as a transparent ink or paint.\n\nAs with hematein, brazilin can be used for staining cell nuclei in histological preparations when combined with aluminum. The nuclei are then colored red instead of blue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4088165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4088165", "title": "Cesbronite", "text": "Cesbronite\n\nCesbronite is a copper-tellurium oxysalt mineral with the chemical formula CuTeO(OH) (IMA 17-C). It is colored green and its crystals are orthorhombic dipyramidal. Cesbronite is rated 3 on the Mohs Scale. It is named after Fabien Cesbron (born 1938), a French mineralogist.\n\nIt was first found in the Bambollita (\"La Oriental\") mine in the Mexican state of Sonora. It also occurs in the Tombstone District of Cochise County, Arizona and the Tintic District of the East Tintic Mountains, Juab County, Utah. It is often associated with argentian gold, teineite, carlfriesite, xocomecatlite, utahite, leisingite, jensenite and hematite.\n\n"}
{"id": "52219777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52219777", "title": "Chatla", "text": "Chatla\n\nChatla Wetland: () is a seasonal wetland in the state of Assam in India.\n\nChatla (Chatla Wetland) is one of the lakes in southern Assam in India. It is situated in the Cachar district, and it is a wetland in Assam state. The specialty of Chatla is that during winter season is becomes fully farm land where Rice cultivation is done and after winter from March onward this piece land gets filled up with water and become a lake. The depth of this lake is very less so when there is too much of rain then the lake overflows and the excess water channels through the Ghagra river to the Barak river and eventually flows into Bangladesh. Chatla is famous for its fishery and it is one of the producers of fish for all the district in southern Assam. Chatla produces all types of fish and the specialty of Chatla is its Bhujia fish.\n\nChatla Wetland is located in the District Cachar of the state Assam. The residents of Chatla are mainly of Bengali, Chatla haor’ is a seasonal wetland where people are engaged in agriculture during dry period (October-March) while the wetland act as a fishery during wet period (April- September). Chatla is located near the second largest town of Assam, Silchar. The main language spoken here is Sylheti by the Bengali population. Rice is the staple food and fish is also available.\n\nThe climate of Chatla is tropical in nature. The summer is usually hot and humid with heavy rainfall at times. The winter season starts from the month of November and continues till February. The heavy rainfall at Chatla raises flood at times. Chatlar had also seen Four major floods in the year 1986, 1991, 2004 and 2007.\n\nChatla is 15 km away from silchar.\n"}
{"id": "9738171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9738171", "title": "Cicada (mythology)", "text": "Cicada (mythology)\n\nCicada lore and mythology is rich and varied as there are c. 2500 species of cicada throughout the world, many of which are undescribed and remain a mystery to science. Cicada has been prized as a delicacy, and are famed throughout the world for their song. \n\nThe cicada is an ancient polyvalent symbol: resounding themes are resurrection, immortality, spiritual realization and spiritual ecstasy. For the ancient Greeks and Romans they sang in intoxicated ecstasy and were sacred to Apollo and cognate with the dionysiac bacchae and maenad.\n\nEgan (1994) affirms that there are several independent Greek sources that tell the story of Eunomos and the cicada. Eunomos, an accomplished cithara player and singer, was performing in a competition when one of the cithara strings snaps. A cicada as offering, alights on his cithara, sustaining the note of the broken string. Eunomos, thereby attributed accolade, wins the competition.\n\nAristotle, fond of eating cicada, described them with decisive brevity in his investigatory \"Historia Animalium\". From this, we know that he was aware of their periodic lifecycle, their emergent resurrection from the earth, their progression to their winged form and song. Aristotle is attributed with seeding Grecian culture with cicada symbolism of resurrection and immortality; though it may be asserted that their liminal quality and propensity to incite awe pre-date Aristotle.\n\nIn \"Phaedrus\", a dialogue authored by Plato, a sagely Socrates and his student of rhetoric Phaedrus engage in thoughtful repartee in an earthy setting by a lush riverbank in the shade of a tree occupied by a chorus of cicadas.\n\nThese cicada are not supernumerary; they provide metaphorical richness, a salient musical motif and liminal hierophany to the dialogue of Socrates and Phaedrus.\n\nIt is in \"Phaedrus\" that Socrates states that some of life's greatest blessings flow from mania specifically in the four kinds of mania: (1) prophetic; (2) poetic; (3) cathartic; and (4) erotic. It is in this context that Socrates' Myth of the Cicadas is presented. The Cicadas chirp and watch to see whether their music lulls humans to laziness or whether the humans can resist their sweet song. Cicadas were originally humans who, in ancient times, allowed the first Muses to enchant them into singing and dancing so long that they stopped eating and sleeping and actually died without noticing it. The Muses rewarded them with the gift of never needing food or sleep, but to sing from birth to death. The task of the Cicadas is to watch humans to report who honors the Muses and who does not.\n\nIn the dialogue, Socrates affirms that nymphs and local divinities or spirits of place inhabit the countryside; talks of the Muses and nature gods such as Pan; in addition he indulges in an extended exegesis of his own dæmon; waxes lyrical, connecting divine inspiration to religion, poetry, art and love; all of which are informed and rendered in poignant relief by cicada chorus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "631360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=631360", "title": "Cliffs of the Neuse State Park", "text": "Cliffs of the Neuse State Park\n\nCliffs of the Neuse State Park is a North Carolina state park in Seven Springs, Wayne County, North Carolina in the United States. It is located near Seven Springs, North Carolina and covers along the southern banks of the Neuse River. It has a swimming area, camp sites, hiking trails, fishing areas, and picnic areas. The park's museum features exhibits about the geology and natural history of the cliffs and the park. Extending for , the series of cliffs rise above the water. Layers of sand, clay, seashells, shale and gravel form the multicolored cliff face, a rainbow of white, tan, yellow and brown.\n\nThe cliffs were formed when a fault in the Earth's crust shifted millions of years ago. The Neuse River followed this fault line and, over time, cut its course through layers of sediment deposited by shallow seas that had earlier covered the coastal plain. A portion of the river took a bend against its bank and the water's erosive action slowly carved Cliffs of the Neuse.\n\nMuch of the human history of the area centers around the river. The Tuscarora and Saponi Indian tribes once occupied much of the land between the Neuse and Pamlico rivers. What is now the park used to be a ceremonial ground and a gathering place for hunting expeditions. The river was also used for travel into the surrounding wilderness.\n\nIn 1944, local landowner Lionel Weil, a founder of Goldsboro's historic Oheb Shalom synagogue and uncle of Gertrude Weil, proposed that the cliffs area along the Neuse River be preserved as a state park. The park was established in 1945 when land on the south side of the river was donated by Lionel Weil and other individuals through the Wayne Foundation. An additional contribution of approximately extended the boundary east of the river. Additional purchases and donations increased the park to its present size of .\n\nA range of habitats contributes to the variety of plants in the park. River margins, flood plains, rolling uplands and ravines are home to a large mixture of trees, shrubs and herbaceous plants. More than 420 species of plants have been recorded in the park.\n\nOpossums, raccoons, foxes, and squirrels are common in the campground and along hiking trails, while river otter and muskrat can be seen swimming along the waterways. Reptiles and amphibians are equally at home in the wetland and aquatic habitats. Most of the snakes are nonvenomous, although copperheads are present. Small nocturnal rodents and white-tailed deer live in the area but are discreet and seldom seen. Sightings of black bears and a coyote have taken place at the park.\n\nBirds are abundant in the park during any season. The northern parula nests in clumps of Spanish moss while the prothonotary warbler lives along the river. Fall and winter bring a host of migratory waterfowl to the area to join the native wood duck.\n"}
{"id": "7056912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7056912", "title": "Clootie well", "text": "Clootie well\n\nClootie wells (also Cloutie or Cloughtie wells) are places of pilgrimage in Celtic areas. They are wells or springs, almost always with a tree growing beside them, where strips of cloth or rags have been left, usually tied to the branches of the tree as part of a healing ritual. In Scots nomenclature, a \"clootie\" or \"cloot\" is a strip of cloth or rag.\n\nWhen used at the clootie wells in Scotland, Ireland, and the Isle of Man, the pieces of cloth are generally dipped in the water of the holy well and then tied to a branch while a prayer of supplication is said to the spirit of the well – in modern times usually a saint, but in pre-Christian times a goddess or local nature spirit. This is most often done by those seeking healing, though some may do it simply to honour the spirit of the well. In either case, many see this as a probable continuation of the ancient Celtic practice of leaving votive offerings in wells or pits.\n\nThere are local variations to the practice. At some wells the tradition is to wash the affected part of the body with the wet rag and then tie the washing-rag on the branch; as the rag disintegrates over time, the ailment is supposed to fade away as well. At some wells the clooties are definitely \"rags\" and discards, at others, brightly coloured strips of fine cloth. In some locations the ceremony may also include circumambulation (or circling) of the well a set number of times and making an offering of a coin, pin or stone. Additional votive offerings hung on the branches or deposited in the wells may include rosaries, religious medals, crosses, religious icons and other symbols of faith.\n\nAt clootie wells where the operative principle is to shed the ailment, and the clootie is thought to represent the ailment, the \"offerings\" may be grotesque castoffs. Those that instead view the clootie as an offering to the spirit, saint or deity are more likely to tie an attractive, clean piece of cloth or ribbon.\n\nThe sacred trees at clootie wells are usually hawthorn trees, though ash trees are also common.\n\nThe most popular times for pilgrimages to clootie wells, like other holy wells, are on the feast days of Saints, the Pattern or Patron day, or on the old Gaelic festival days of Imbolc (1 February), Beltane (1 May), Lughnasadh (1 August), or Samhain (1 November).\n\nIn Scotland, by the village of Munlochy on the A832, is a clootie well at an ancient spring dedicated to Saint Curetán, where rags are still hung on the surrounding bushes and trees. Here the well was once thought to have had the power to cure sick children who were left there overnight. In the heart of Culloden woods near the battlefield is a walled clootie well also known as St Mary's well. This well was traditionally visited on the first Sunday in May up until the early seventies. However, this tradition is now in decline. Craigie well at Avoch on the Black Isle has both offerings of coins and clooties. Rags, wool and human hair were also used as charms against sorcery, and as tokens of penance or fulfilment of a vow. A clootie well once existed at Kilallan near Kilmacolm in Renfrewshire. This holy well was dedicated to St Fillan and cloth was tied to overhanging shrub branches.\n\nIn Cornwall, at Madron Well () the practice is to tie the cloth and as it rots the ailment is believed to disappear. In 1894 Madron Well was said to be the only Cornish well where rags were traditionally tied. Rags have only appeared at other Cornish wells such as Alsia Well () and Sancreed Well () in about the last 30 years. Christ's Well at Mentieth was described in 1618 \"as all tapestried about with old rags\".\n\nIn Ireland at Loughcrew, Oldcastle, County Meath () there is a wishing tree, where visitors to the passage tombs tie ribbons to the branch of a hawthorn tree. Loughcrew is a site of considerable historical importance in Ireland. It is the site of megalithic burial grounds dating back to approximately 3500 and 3300 BC, situated near the summit of Sliabh na Caillí and on surrounding hills and valleys.\n\nSomeone has raised concerns over the use of non-biodegradable rags.\n\nA fictional clootie well at Auchterarder and the one on Black Isle feature in Ian Rankin's novel \"The Naming of the Dead\". Author Ian Rankin visited the Clootie Well at Munlochy, on the Black Isle before writing the book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2832596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832596", "title": "Cook Forest State Park", "text": "Cook Forest State Park\n\nCook Forest State Park is a Pennsylvania state park in Farmington Township, Clarion County, Barnett Township, Forest County and Barnett Township, Jefferson County, Pennsylvania in the United States. The park is a heavily wooded area of rolling hills and mountains along the Clarion River in northwestern Pennsylvania. Cook Forest State Park is known for some of America's finest virgin white pine and hemlock timber stands and was once called the \"Black Forest\" due to the preponderance of evergreen tree coverage.\n\nCook Forest is now a National Natural Landmark and was rated one of America's top 50 state parks by \"National Geographic Traveler\" magazine. It was chosen by the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources (DCNR) and its Bureau of Parks as one of \"25 Must-See Pennsylvania State Parks\".\n\nWhen European-Americans reached this part of Pennsylvania it was inhabited by the Seneca Nation of the Iroquois Confederacy. They used this area as a hunting grounds; the land of Cook Forest was then purchased by the English. Seneca Rock is still named after the first inhabitants, and the Paramount Pictures' film \"Unconquered\" was shot here in 1946 by Cecil B. DeMille and starring Gary Cooper and Paulette Goddard.\n\nJohn Cook was the first permanent American settler. He arrived in 1826 to determine the feasibility of building an east-to-west canal along the Clarion River for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. John purchased and settled here with his wife and 10 children in 1828.\n\nAt the mouth of Tom's Run, now adjacent to the park office, John built his one-story cabin and the first of many water-driven sawmills. He worked his mills, logged with oxen, rafted logs to Pittsburgh and also engaged in flatboat building through the years.\n\nJohn's son Andrew bought from his father, then gained the rest of his land when his father died in 1858. Andrew's industry expanded, and he built the original Cook Forest Inn for his woodsmen's living quarters. Anthony erected three sawmills, one flouring mill, one planing mill, a boat scaffold, several dwellings and a store. Andrew also served as a judge and local bank president. About 1870, he built the Cook Homestead (now a bed and breakfast)at the intersection of Route 36 and River Road. Cook family descendants still inhabit many of the homes along River Road. After Andrew's death, the business was managed under A. Cook Sons Company.\n\nMajor Israel McCreight of Du Bois, Pennsylvania, was author and steward of Cook Forest State Park, the first Pennsylvania State Park acquired to preserve a natural landmark, and a founder of the Pennsylvania Conservation Association. Cook Forest is the most important tract of virgin timberland to be found in Pennsylvania, and is without rival for size East of the Rockies. Once called the “Black Forest,” the area is famous for its towering white pines and hemlocks. The idea to make Cook Forest a public park originated on McCreight's first visit to the “Forest Cathedral” near the Clarion River in northwest central Pennsylvania. “It was a beautiful day, August 21, 1910, that the writer with a few others were invited to a weekend house party at the A.W. Cook home. Cook would comment, as he led the way into the silent ‘temple of the gods’, and then listen to the exclamations of astonishment that were sure to come from those who followed along the fern-bound path in this fairyland. Often there was heard no comment, for in this silent cathedral of the Almighty, it was unuttered. Frequently it was observed that sturdy men could not restrain their tears, at the solemnity of their environment. It was during this walk that A.W. Cook and the writer sat down on a log to talk about the future fate of the magnificent panorama they saw and felt all about them, The writer said to him: ‘Cook, no greater crime could be committed than to destroy this; it shall not be destroyed; it must be saved for humanity’s sake.” McCreight was determined to save the forest and began a campaign to conserve the natural landmark. In 1910, McCreight and others formed the Pennsylvania Conservation Association and successfully lobbied the legislature to consider Cook Forest for state park purposes. For sixteen years a series of unsuccessful legislative bills were introduced for the state to acquire Cook Forest. In 1923, the Cook Forest Association was formed for the purpose of acquiring the Cook Forest tract of virgin white pine and hemlock. Early pioneers with the Cook Forest Association were Major Israel McCreight, Theo Wilson and John Nicholson. The Association, endorsed by national natural resource groups and Governor Gifford Pinchot, raised $200,000. \nOn April 14, 1927, a bill was signed by Governor John Stuchell Fisher appropriating $450,000 on condition that the Cook Forest Association raise the remaining $200,000 to purchase the 6,055 acres. On December 28, 1928, the funds having been raised by the Cook Forest Association, the Secretary of the Department of Forests and Waters announced the formal purchase.\n\nMoney from the Association helped the Commonwealth purchase from A. Cook Sons Company in 1927 for $640,000. Cook Forest became the first Pennsylvania State Park acquired to preserve a natural landmark.\n\nBuilt in 1929, a firetower was used to spot forest fires. It stands over tall. While no longer in use, the public can still climb to the top of the stairs. In addition, on rare occasions, the top spotting area will be opened by a guide to allow visitors a closer look.\n\nThe Cook Forest State Park Indian Cabin District is a national historic district that includes 11 contributing buildings. They are single room log cabins located on Toms Run behind the park office. They were built by the Civilian Conservation Corps as part of Camp SP-2, which operated in the park from October 1933 to September 1935. These cabins are constructed largely of American chestnut logs which were selected due to both their long-term rot-resistance and the impending local extinction of the species due to chestnut blight.\n\nThe park is in the Allegheny Highlands forests ecoregion. It is famous for its spectacular stands of old-growth Eastern White Pine and Eastern Hemlock, with more white pine over in its Forest Cathedral than in any other site in the northeastern United States. Many of these ancient trees began growing after a drought and fire in 1644. In total, there are some to of old-growth forests or old forests with old-growth characteristics in several stands throughout the park. In addition to white pine and hemlock, old-growth Northern Red Oak, White Oak, Black Cherry, Red Maple, Sugar Maple, American Beech, White Ash, Yellow Birch, Black Birch, Cucumber Magnolia also grow throughout the park.\n\nCook Forest features 27 marked trails totaling some for hiking. The terrain is of rolling hills and cool valley streams. Special scenic areas are the old growth forest, Fire Tower/Seneca Point and the Clarion River. Among Cook Forest's primary attractions is the \"Forest Cathedral\" area of old growth white pine and hemlock, some trees of which top . A somewhat more minor attraction is the short rock \"grotto\" found in the midst of the mountain-laurel thickets along Seneca trail roughly halfway between the Fire Tower/Seneca Point area and the end of Deer Park Trail. Part of the Baker Trail () and the North Country National Scenic Trail pass through Cook Forest. The Baker Trail runs from Freeport, in southern Armstrong County, to the Allegheny National Forest. The North Country Trail is under development and will connect the Missouri River in North Dakota with the Adirondack Mountains in New York.\n\nBikes are permitted on all one-way dirt roads within the park. Biking on hiking trails is not permitted except on the part of the Heffern Run Trail that is part of the Bicycle Route. All children under 12 years of age are required to wear a helmet when biking. Bikes ridden at night must have a light on the bike. The Bicycle Route is long and follows lightly traveled roads within the park and Heffern Run Trail. The route is of moderate difficulty with long flat areas and rolling hills. Highlights of the route are a leisurely four-mile flat ride through scenic Tom's Run Valley, CCC-era red and white pine plantations along Forest Drive and a challenging descent along the Heffern Run Trail. A description of the Bicycle Route is available at the park office.\n\nThe swimming pool is permanently closed due to lack of funds to sustain it. Visitors may swim in the Clarion River across from the ranger station or anywhere along public park land. Many local businesses provide canoeing and tubing along the relatively shallow and slow-moving river.\n\nTwo designated bridle trails off Cemetery Road and portions of Brown's Run Trail comprise of trails for horseback riding. Several stables dot the area and are open to the public most of the year; these include Silver Stallion, Pine Crest, and the Cook Forest Scenic Trailride, Dude Ranch, and Campground.\n\nAbout are open to hunting, trapping, and the training of dogs during established seasons. Common game species are deer, wild turkey, bear, and squirrel. Hunting woodchucks, also known as groundhogs, is prohibited. Dog training is only permitted from the day following Labor Day to March 31 in designated hunting areas. The Department of Conservation and Natural Resources and the Pennsylvania Game Commission rules and regulations apply. Contact the park office for accessible hunting information.\n\nThe Clarion River flows along the park border and provides fishing for trout, warm-water game fish \nand panfish. Many visitors enjoy canoeing or kayaking down the river. There are also businesses that will rent you a canoe. About of Tom's Run is stocked with trout. A special fishing pond stocked with trout is by the park office and is available for use by children 12 and younger and people with a disability. A level grass bank at the edge of the pond provides easy access. For complete information on fishing rules and regulations in Pennsylvania, visit the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission.\n\nPrograms for all ages are offered March to December. Through hands-on activities, guided walks and evening programs, participants gain appreciation, understanding and develop a sense of stewardship toward natural and cultural resources.\n\nCurriculum-based environmental education programs are available to schools and youth groups. Teacher workshops are available. Group programs must be scheduled in advance by calling the park office.\n\nA weekly interpretive schedule is available at the park office. The park has an environmental learning center in the Log Cabin Inn at the Main Picnic Area. The Historical Room displays logging and rafting tools, models and artifacts.\n\nThe fire tower is always open for climbing during daylight hours, and the booth at its top is occasionally opened by a ranger for exhibition; check at the park office for a schedule.\n\nA local, non-profit craft organization housed in the historic sawmill offers traditional crafts on display, a gift shop and classes. Demonstrations and classes on various crafts are presented throughout the summer and fall seasons for children and adults. The Verna Leith Sawmill Theater seats 180 people and presents plays, musicals and other entertainment throughout the summer season.\n\nThe 24 rustic cabins rent from the second Friday in April to late December. All cabins are minimally furnished. Each cabin has beds, mattresses, gas stove, refrigerator, and tables and chairs. Occupants must provide their own bedding, cookware and tableware. Alcoholic beverages and pets are not permitted. There are two cabin areas at Cook Forest. The River Cabins are on a hillside overlooking the Clarion River. Two River Cabins have one room and sleep four people and the other 11 River Cabins have four rooms, a fireplace and sleep six or eight people. The Indian Cabins are along Tom's Run behind the park office. These smaller, one-room cabins sleep four people.\n\nPart of Ridge Campground is open year-round. Winter access is not guaranteed. Modern restrooms with showers are available late May through early October. The 226 tent and trailer campsites have a picnic table and fire ring, and six sites are ADA accessible. There is a sanitary dump station and coin-operated laundry facilities.\n\nThe following state parks are within of Cook Forest State Park:\n"}
{"id": "2364455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2364455", "title": "Dipole anisotropy", "text": "Dipole anisotropy\n\nDipole anisotropy is a form of anisotropy and the progressive difference in the frequency of radiation from opposite directions due to the motion of the observer relative to the source. As a result of that motion, one end of the 360-degree spectrum is redshifted, whereas the other end is blueshifted. That effect is notable in measurements of the cosmic microwave background radiation, due to the motion of earth.\n"}
{"id": "31219789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31219789", "title": "Dry Creek (Oregon)", "text": "Dry Creek (Oregon)\n\nDry Creek is a common name for streams in Oregon. The Geographic Names Information System list 96 streams by that name. The National Hydrography Dataset contains 91 of those streams. Nine of them are over 15 miles in length, they are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "8461948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8461948", "title": "Ecosystem approach", "text": "Ecosystem approach\n\nThe ecosystem approach is a conceptual framework for resolving ecosystem issues. The idea is to protect and manage the environment through the use of scientific reasoning. Another point of the ecosystem approach is preserving the Earth and its inhabitants from potential harm or permanent damage to the planet itself. With the preservation and management of the planet through an ecosystem approach, the future monetary and planetary gain are the by-product of sustaining and/or increasing the capacity of that particular environment. This is possible as the ecosystem approach incorporates humans, the economy, and ecology to the solution of any given problem. The initial idea for an ecosystem approach would come to light during the second meeting (November 1995) at the Conference of the Parties (COP) it was the central topic in implementation and framework for the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), it would further elaborate on the ecosystem approach as using varies methodologies for solving complex issues.\n\nThroughout, the use and incorporation of ecosystem approaches, two similar terms have been created in that time: ecosystem-based management and ecosystem management. The Convention on Biological Diversity has seen ecosystem-based management as a supporting topic/concept for the ecosystem approach. Similarly, ecosystem management has a minor difference with the two terms. Conceptual the differences between the three terms come from a framework structure and the different methods used in solving complex issues. The key component and definition between the three terms refer to the concept of conservation and protection of the ecosystem.\n\nThe use of the ecosystem approach has been incorporated with managing water, land, and living organisms ecosystems and advocating the nourishment and sustainment of those ecological space. Since the ecosystem approach is a conceptual model for solving problems, the key idea could combat various problems.\n\nOn December 29, 1993, the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) was signed and applied as a multilateral treaty. With the purpose of achieving: \n\nTwo years after the CBD was signed, during the second meeting of the Conference of the Parties (November 1995) the representatives of the signed treaty would agree upon employing a strategy to combat the intricate and actively changing ecosystem. The ecosystem approach would represent as the equalizer for obtaining knowledge and creating countermeasures in preventing the endangerment of any ecological environment.\nWith the acknowledgment of the ecosystem approach, during the fifth meeting of the Conference of the Parties, a group consensus agreed on a concrete definition and elaboration for the ecosystem approach would be needed, and the Parties would request Subsidiary Body on Scientific Technical and Technological Advice (SBSTTA) to create a guideline with 12 principles and a description of the ecosystem approach. The final results are given at COP 5 Decision V/6 summary.\n\nDuring the seventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties, further iteration on the ecosystem approach would be seen as a priority, during the meeting the parties would agree new implementation and strategical development could be incorporated with the ecosystem approach into the CBD. Furthermore, creating a new relationship with sustaining forest organization and the ecosystem approach was talked about. All topics and discussion regarding seventh meeting are given at COP 7 Decision Vll/11 summary.\n\nWith the development and use of the ecosystem approach, different variation to that form have been created and used. The two being ecosystem management and ecosystem-based management, the framework of the three methods are still the same (the conservation and protection of the ecosystem). The distinguishing part beings with how to initiate the approach of solving the problem. Ecosystem-based management (EBM) is used for projects that incorporate interaction of different levels: organisms, the ecosystem, and the human component; however, its varies from the other methods as the scale of the problem is larger and intricate. The objectives should be straightforward and condensed with important systematic information. Also, EBM considers social and cultural aspects into the solution not just only scientific reasoning. With ecosystem management, the process is similar to EBM; however, factors such as socioeconomics and politics can impact the decision and solution. A cultural aspect is also considered when creating a solution.\n\nThe ecosystem approach is currently being used in the fields of environmental and ocean management (i.e. the ecosystem approach does not stop there; it is being used in various fields and sub-fields as well). The goal is to address the current problems facing those fields through the use of conceptual thinking and approach that would determine a viable and sustaining solution. One example, in particular, would be pertaining to Fishery (a commercial industry in capturing and selling of fishes). In recent years, inland fisheries have quintupled from 2 million metric tons to 11 million metric tons in the span of 60 years from 1950 to 2010. Through the use of the ecosystem approach more specifically the ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF), sometimes referred to as Ecosystem-based fisheries. EAF is seen as a framework to creating local strategies for each specific fishery ecosystem and implementing the new strategies gradually with the already existing rules and regulation. With the use of EAF if successful fishery industries could generate substantial income; as well as, improve the fragile ecosystem of aquarium species.\n\n"}
{"id": "37927197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37927197", "title": "Energy density Extended Reference Table", "text": "Energy density Extended Reference Table\n\nThis is extended version of energy density table from the main page energy density:\n"}
{"id": "342520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342520", "title": "Fuel efficiency", "text": "Fuel efficiency\n\nFuel efficiency is a form of thermal efficiency, meaning the ratio from effort to result of a process that converts chemical potential energy contained in a carrier (fuel) into kinetic energy or work. Overall fuel efficiency may vary per device, which in turn may vary per application fuel efficiency, especially fossil fuel power plants or industries dealing with combustion, such as ammonia production during the Haber process.\n\nIn the context of transport, fuel economy is the energy efficiency of a particular vehicle, given as a ratio of distance traveled per unit of fuel consumed. It is dependent on engine efficiency, transmission design, and tire design. Fuel economy is expressed in miles per gallon (mpg) in the USA and usually also in the UK (imperial gallon); there is sometimes confusion as the imperial gallon is 20% larger than the US gallon so that mpg values are not directly comparable. In countries using the metric system fuel economy is stated as \"fuel consumption\" in liters per 100 kilometers (L/100 km). Litres per mil are used in Norway and Sweden.\n\nFuel consumption is a more accurate measure of a vehicle’s performance because it is a linear relationship while fuel economy leads to distortions in efficiency improvements.\n\nWeight-specific efficiency (efficiency per unit weight) may be stated for freight, and passenger-specific efficiency (vehicle efficiency per passenger).\n\nFuel efficiency is dependent on many parameters of a vehicle, including its engine parameters, aerodynamic drag, weight, AC usage, fuel and rolling resistance. There have been advances in all areas of vehicle design in recent decades. Fuel efficiency of vehicles can also be improved by careful maintenance and driving habits.\n\nHybrid vehicles use two or more power sources for propulsion. In many designs, a small combustion engine is combined with electric motors. Kinetic energy which would otherwise be lost to heat during braking is recaptured as electrical power to improve fuel efficiency. Engines automatically shut off when vehicles come to a stop and start again when the accelerator is pressed preventing wasted energy from idling.\n\nFleet efficiency describes the average efficiency of a population of vehicles. Technological advances in efficiency may be offset by a change in buying habits with a propensity to heavier vehicles, which are less efficient, all else being equal.\n\nEnergy efficiency is similar to fuel efficiency but the input is usually in units of energy such as British thermal units (BTU), megajoules (MJ), gigajoules (GJ), kilocalories (kcal), or kilowatt-hours (kW·h). The inverse of \"energy efficiency\" is \"energy intensity\", or the amount of input energy required for a unit of output such as MJ/passenger-km (of passenger transport), BTU/ton-mile or kJ/t-km (of freight transport), GJ/t (for production of steel and other materials), BTU/(kW·h) (for electricity generation), or litres/100 km (of vehicle travel). Litres per 100 km is also a measure of \"energy intensity\" where the input is measured by the amount of fuel and the output is measured by the distance travelled. For example: Fuel economy in automobiles.\n\nGiven a heat value of a fuel, it would be trivial to convert from fuel units (such as litres of gasoline) to energy units (such as MJ) and conversely. But there are two problems with comparisons made using energy units:\n\nThe specific energy content of a fuel is the heat energy obtained when a certain quantity is burned (such as a gallon, litre, kilogram). It is sometimes called the heat of combustion. There exists two different values of specific heat energy for the same batch of fuel. One is the high (or gross) heat of combustion and the other is the low (or net) heat of combustion. The high value is obtained when, after the combustion, the water in the exhaust is in liquid form. For the low value, the exhaust has all the water in vapor form (steam). Since water vapor gives up heat energy when it changes from vapor to liquid, the liquid water value is larger since it includes the latent heat of vaporization of water. The difference between the high and low values is significant, about 8 or 9%. This accounts for most of the apparent discrepancy in the heat value of gasoline. In the U.S. (and the table) the high heat values have traditionally been used, but in many other countries, the low heat values are commonly used.\n\nNeither the gross heat of combustion nor the net heat of combustion gives the theoretical amount of mechanical energy (work) that can be obtained from the reaction. (This is given by the change in Gibbs free energy, and is around 45.7 MJ/kg for gasoline.) The actual amount of mechanical work obtained from fuel (the inverse of the specific fuel consumption) depends on the engine. A figure of 17.6 MJ/kg is possible with a gasoline engine, and 19.1 MJ/kg for a diesel engine. See Brake specific fuel consumption for more information.\n\nThe fuel efficiency of motor vehicles can be expressed in more ways:\n\nConverting from mpg or to L/100 km (or vice versa) involves the use of the reciprocal function, which is not distributive. Therefore, the average of two fuel economy numbers gives different values if those units are used, because one of the functions is reciprocal, thus not linear. If two people calculate the fuel economy average of two groups of cars with different units, the group with better fuel economy may be one or the other. However, from the point of energy used as a shared method of measure, the result shall be the same in both the cases.\n\nThe formula for converting to miles per US gallon (exactly 3.785411784 L) from L/100 km is formula_1, where formula_2 is value of L/100 km. For miles per Imperial gallon (exactly 4.54609 L) the formula is formula_3.\n\nIn parts of Europe, the two standard measuring cycles for \"litre/100 km\" value are \"urban\" traffic with speeds up to 50 km/h from a cold start, and then \"extra urban\" travel at various speeds up to 120 km/h which follows the urban test. A combined figure is also quoted showing the total fuel consumed in divided by the total distance traveled in both tests. A reasonably modern European supermini and many mid-size cars, including station wagons, may manage motorway travel at 5 L/100 km (47 mpg US/56 mpg imp) or 6.5 L/100 km in city traffic (36 mpg US/43 mpg imp), with carbon dioxide emissions of around 140 g/km.\n\nAn average North American mid-size car travels 21 mpg (US) (11 L/100 km) city, 27 mpg (US) (9 L/100 km) highway; a full-size SUV usually travels 13 mpg (US) (18 L/100 km) city and 16 mpg (US) (15 L/100 km) highway. Pickup trucks vary considerably; whereas a 4 cylinder-engined light pickup can achieve 28 mpg (8 L/100 km), a V8 full-size pickup with extended cabin only travels 13 mpg (US) (18 L/100 km) city and 15 mpg (US) (15 L/100 km) highway.\n\nThe average fuel economy is higher in Europe due to the higher cost of fuel. In the UK, a gallon of gas without tax would cost US$1.97, but with taxes cost US$6.06 in 2005. The average cost in the United States was US$2.61. Consumers prefer \"muscle cars\" but choose more fuel efficient ones when gas prices increase.\n\nEuropean-built cars are generally more fuel-efficient than US vehicles. While Europe has many higher efficiency diesel cars, European gasoline vehicles are on average also more efficient than gasoline-powered vehicles in the USA. Most European vehicles cited in the CSI study run on diesel engines, which tend to achieve greater fuel efficiency than gas engines. Selling those cars in the United States is difficult because of emission standards, notes Walter McManus, a fuel economy expert at the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute. \"For the most part, European diesels don’t meet U.S. emission standards\", McManus said in 2007. Another reason why many European models are not marketed in the United States is that labor unions object to having the big 3 import any new foreign built models regardless of fuel economy while laying off workers at home.\n\nAn example of European cars' capabilities of fuel economy is the microcar \"Smart Fortwo\" cdi, which can achieve up to 3.4 l/100 km (69.2 mpg US) using a turbocharged three-cylinder 41 bhp (30 kW) Diesel engine. The Fortwo is produced by Daimler AG and is currently only sold by one company in the United States. Furthermore, the current (and to date already 10-year-old) world record in fuel economy of production cars is held by the Volkswagen Group, with special production models (labeled \"3L\") of the Volkswagen Lupo and the Audi A2, consuming as little as .\n\nDiesel engines generally achieve greater fuel efficiency than petrol (gasoline) engines. Passenger car diesel engines have energy efficiency of up to 41% but more typically 30%, and petrol engines of up to 37.3%, but more typically 20%. That is one of the reasons why diesels have better fuel efficiency than equivalent petrol cars. A common margin is 25% more miles per gallon for an efficient turbodiesel.\n\nFor example, the current model Skoda Octavia, using Volkswagen engines, has a combined European fuel efficiency of 41.3 mpg for the petrol engine and 52.3 mpg for the — and heavier — diesel engine. The higher compression ratio is helpful in raising the energy efficiency, but diesel fuel also contains approximately 10% more energy per unit volume than gasoline which contributes to the reduced fuel consumption for a given power output.\n\nIn 2002, the United States had 85,174,776 trucks, and averaged . Large trucks, over , averaged .\n\nThe average economy of automobiles in the United States in 2002 was . By 2010 this had increased to . Average fuel economy in the United States gradually declined until 1973, when it reached a low of and gradually has increased since, as a result of higher fuel cost. A study indicates that a 10% increase in gas prices will eventually produce a 2.04% increase in fuel economy. One method by car makers to increase fuel efficiency is lightweighting in which lighter-weight materials are substituted in for improved engine performance and handling.\n\nHow fuel combusts affects how much energy is produced. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has investigated fuel consumption in microgravity.\n\nThe common distribution of a flame under normal gravity conditions depends on convection, because soot tends to rise to the top of a flame, such as in a candle, making the flame yellow. In microgravity or zero gravity, such as an environment in outer space, convection no longer occurs, and the flame becomes spherical, with a tendency to become more blue and more efficient. There are several possible explanations for this difference, of which the most likely one given is the hypothesis that the temperature is evenly distributed enough that soot is not formed and complete combustion occurs., National Aeronautics and Space Administration, April 2005. Experiments by NASA in microgravity reveal that diffusion flames in microgravity allow more soot to be completely oxidised after they are produced than diffusion flames on Earth, because of a series of mechanisms that behaved differently in microgravity when compared to normal gravity conditions.LSP-1 experiment results, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, April 2005. Premixed flames in microgravity burn at a much slower rate and more efficiently than even a candle on Earth, and last much longer.\n\nFuel efficiency directly affects emissions causing pollution by affecting the amount of fuel used. However, it also depends on the fuel source used to drive the vehicle concerned. Cars for example, can run on a number of fuel types other than gasoline, such as natural gas, LPG or biofuel or electricity which creates various quantities of atmospheric pollution.\n\nA kilogram of carbon, whether contained in petrol, diesel, kerosene, or any other hydrocarbon fuel in a vehicle, leads to approximately 3.6 kg of CO emissions. Due to the carbon content of gasoline, its combustion emits 2.3 kg/l (19.4 lb/US gal) of CO; since diesel fuel is more energy dense per unit volume, diesel emits 2.6 kg/l (22.2 lb/US gal). This figure is only the CO emissions of the final fuel product and does not include additional CO emissions created during the drilling, pumping, transportation and refining steps required to produce the fuel. Additional measures to reduce overall emission includes improvements to the efficiency of air conditioners, lights and tires.\n\nMany drivers have the potential to improve their fuel efficiency significantly. These five basic fuel-efficient driving techniques can be effective. Simple things such as keeping tires properly inflated, having a vehicle well-maintained and avoiding idling can dramatically improve fuel efficiency.\n\nThere is a growing community of enthusiasts known as hypermilers who develop and practice driving techniques to increase fuel efficiency and reduce consumption. Hypermilers have broken records of fuel efficiency, for example, achieving 109 miles per gallon in a Prius. In non-hybrid vehicles these techniques are also beneficial, with fuel efficiencies of up to 59 MPG in a Honda Accord or 30 MPG in an Acura MDX.\n\nThe most efficient machines for converting energy to rotary motion are electric motors, as used in electric vehicles. However, electricity is not a primary energy source so the efficiency of the electricity production has also to be taken into account. Currently railway trains can be powered using electricity, delivered through an additional running rail, overhead catenary system or by on-board generators used in diesel-electric locomotives as common on the US and UK rail networks. Pollution produced from centralised generation of electricity is emitted at a distant power station, rather than \"on site\". Pollution can be reduced by using more railway electrification and low carbon power for electricity. Some railways, such as the French SNCF and Swiss federal railways derive most, if not 100% of their power, from hydroelectric or nuclear power stations, therefore atmospheric pollution from their rail networks is very low. This was reflected in a study by AEA Technology between a Eurostar train and airline journeys between London and Paris, which showed the trains on average emitting 10 times less CO, per passenger, than planes, helped in part by French nuclear generation.\n\nIn the future, hydrogen cars may be commercially available. Toyota is test marketing hydrogen fuel cell powered vehicles in southern California where a series of hydrogen fueling stations has been established. Powered either through chemical reactions in a fuel cell that create electricity to drive very efficient electrical motors or by directly burning hydrogen in a combustion engine (near identically to a natural gas vehicle, and similarly compatible with both natural gas and gasoline); these vehicles promise to have near-zero pollution from the tailpipe (exhaust pipe). Potentially the atmospheric pollution could be minimal, provided the hydrogen is made by electrolysis using electricity from non-polluting sources such as solar, wind or hydroelectricity or nuclear. Commercial hydrogen production uses fossil fuels and produces more carbon dioxide than hydrogen.\n\nBecause there are pollutants involved in the manufacture and destruction of a car and the production, transmission and storage of electricity and hydrogen, the use of the label \"zero pollution\" should be understood as applying only to the car's conversion of stored energy into transportation.\n\nIn 2004, a consortium of major auto-makers — BMW, General Motors, Honda, Toyota and Volkswagen/Audi — came up with \"Top Tier Detergent Gasoline Standard\" to gasoline brands in the US and Canada that meet their minimum standards for detergent content and do not contain metallic additives. Top Tier gasoline contains higher levels of detergent additives in order to prevent the build-up of deposits (typically, on fuel injector and intake valve) known to reduce fuel economy and engine performance.\n\nElectric Turbo Compounding (ETC) is a technology solution to the challenge of improving energy efficiency for the stationary power generation industry.\n\nFossil fuel based power generation is predicted to continue for decades, especially in developing economies. This is against the global need to reduce carbon emissions, of which, a high percentage is produced by the power sector worldwide.\n\nETC works by making gas and diesel-powered gensets (Electric Generators) work more effectively and cleaner, by recovering waste energy from the exhaust to improve power density and fuel efficiency.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41651319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41651319", "title": "Gammelmose", "text": "Gammelmose\n\nGammelmose () is a former raised bogland separating Vangede from Kongens Lyngby in the northern suburbs of Copenhagen, Denmark. It covers an area of approximately .\n\nGammelmose belonged to the Bernstorff Estate and was used for harvesting of peat. These resources were almost depleted in the first half of the 19th century. King Christian VIII, who owned the estate, protected the site by royal decree in 1844. This was done to provide a locality for the scientific study of the natural formation of peat and the recovery of a depleted peat bog. It is the earliest example of a protection of a natural habitat for scientific reasons in Denmark.\n\nIn 1918, Gammelmose was the first locality to be included under the new Nature Protection Act, and is today listed as an IUCN category IV protected area. The area was reduced by three hectares in connection with an expansion of the Ring 3 motorway. Only researchers were formerly allowed to enter the nature reserve. In 2008, it was opened to the public on designated paths in the periphery of the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "27725921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27725921", "title": "Global storm activity of 2009", "text": "Global storm activity of 2009\n\nGlobal storm activity of 2009 profiles the major worldwide storms, including blizzards, ice storms, and other winter events, from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009. Wintery storms are events in which the dominant varieties of precipitation are forms that only occur at cold temperatures, such as snow or sleet, or a rainstorm where ground temperatures are cold enough to allow ice to form (i.e. freezing rain). It may be marked by strong wind, thunder and lightning (a thunderstorm), heavy precipitation, such as ice (ice storm), or wind transporting some substance through the atmosphere (as in a dust storm, snowstorm, hailstorm, etc.). Summer storms including flooding, severe thunderstorms and extratropical cyclones (which can occur in summer or winter) are also included in this list to a certain extent.\n\nAs this occurred a heat wave and/or unforeseen monsoon weather also hit parts of Australia in 2009 and 2010. Victoria, the scene of horrific bushfires the year before, had a far colder summer, with hot weather arriving more than a month later than usual in 2009. August 17 saw a dust storm at Laguna Mar Chiquita as a major drought hit Argentina, and flooding and hailstorms hit southeastern Australia and Queensland in March 2010. The lack of winter precipitation in parts of China, however, contributed to a severe drought in the southwest. Bolivia, Venezuela, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco and Spain have also seen periods of drought in 2009 and 2010. On between May 12 and 26, both Mauritania, the Sénégal River Area and neighbouring parts of both Senegal and Mali faced both a drought and famine in 2010.\n\nA storm (from Proto-Germanic \"*sturmaz\" \"noise, tumult\") is any disturbed state of an astronomical body's atmosphere, especially affecting its surface, and strongly implying severe weather.\n\nStorms are created when a centre of low pressure develops, with a system of high pressure surrounding it. This combination of opposing forces can create winds and result in the formation of storm clouds, such as the cumulonimbus. Small, localized areas of low pressure can form from hot air rising off hot ground, resulting in smaller meteorological disturbances such as dust devils and whirlwinds.\n\nAn Alberta clipper affected regions around the Great Lakes, Midwestern United States and Northeastern United States. Greater Toronto Area saw about 7–10 cm, with higher amounts towards the Niagara region. The storm is strengthening over the Atlantic, and could become a blizzard. Northeastern United States saw about 10–20 cm. The Atlantic provinces were in a Blizzard for New Year's Day, with 49 cm recorded in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island and 25 cm in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Blizzard warnings and storm surge warnings were posted as winds were sustained more than 60–80 km (40–50 mi), out of the North. Newfoundland and Labrador saw about 15–25 cm of snow, with blowing snow. Another 15–20 cm could fall through the province, as another low comes in.\n\nAmounts of 5–15 cm of heavy wet snow fell in Metro Vancouver and the surrounding Fraser Valley.\n\nJanuary 2 saw a blizzard hit the Swiss–Liechtenstein border, killing an Italian tourist, when his car skidded into a tree due to black ice on the nearby road.\n\nYet another winter storm developed and brought about 10–25 cm across Alberta, Saskatchewan and through the Northern Great Plains. 10–20 cm also fell through Northern Ontario, with freezing rain, ice pellets (sleet) and rain to the south. Northeastern United States can expect ice and snow, with rain down south. Traveling will not be easy.\n\nOn the west coast, Vancouver and the surrounding Fraser Valley got 5–20 cm of wet snow, with heavier accumulation towards in the interior of British Columbia, about 10–20 cm of dryer, more powdery snow.\n\nA major winter storm is developing near the Gulf. It is slowly moving north, and it will be a complex of two lows. Toronto, Ontario recorded about 13 cm. Niagara region saw snow mixing with ice pellets and Freezing rain. Eastern Ontario and Southern Quebec saw amounts of 15–30 cm. Similar amounts fell in New England. The Atlantic provinces saw snow to start then mixing, and rain was reported in some areas.\n\nSnow continued in Metro Vancouver with accumulations of 2–15 cm of heavy wet snow.\n\nMetro Vancouver and the Fraser Valley were stuck with continuing snow from the 1st-5th with accumulations for those 5 days anywhere from 15–30 cm of heavy wet snow pile up. As the temperatures rose (up to 10 °C), heavy rains came to the area starting on the 6th. Rain amounts on the 6th and the 7th were anywhere from 30 to even 150 mm on Western Vancouver Island, the north shore of Vancouver, and sections of the Fraser Valley. In the city of Chilliwack in the Fraser Valley a very deep snow cover, mostly sub-freezing temperatures since December 13, 2008, warm temperatures and heavy rain created flooding concerns for residents living near or on the edge of the Fraser River.\n\nFour died on January 8 during a heavy blizzard in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir and the North West Frontier.\n\nA storm brought 5–15 cm across the Canadian Prairies and through the Great Plains. Midwest U.S. and Southwestern Ontario could see amounts of 5–25 cm. Many areas are reporting heavy amounts of snowfall.\n\nOn the west coast, up to 120 mm could fall in some areas, as a low pressure area comes in. These latest storms have caused flooding in many areas. Due to excessive snow melt courtesy from the large amounts produced by the December Snowstorms with the Pineapple Express storm along with heavy rain fall lead to epic flooding. More than 18 rivers went beyond Major Flood stage and a couple went over Record Stage. These floods led the closure of I-5 in Centralia when the Chehalis and Skookumchuck Rivers overflowed. This was the second time in two consecutive years when that Section of I-5 was closed due to flooding.\n\nA major winter storm swept across the Great Lakes region and the U.S. Northeast. Areas of Toronto recorded between 15–25 cm, with 10 cm in Windsor, Ontario, & higher amounts towards the Lakes. Some areas reported more than 20 cm of accumulation. This same storm affected Northeastern United States with 10–30 cm, and the Atlantic provinces of Canada. Some areas have reported freezing rain and ice pellets, and even rain mixing in. U.S. Southeast saw mostly rain.\n\nJanuary 2009 Central Plains and Midwest ice storm\n\nA potentially severe winter storm is in the developing stages and had already brought more than an inch of ice to many areas in the United States. This system will move across the Midwest into the Northeast. Many places are expecting a major ice storm and areas to the north are expecting significant snowfall accumulations. Over 2 million people were without power throughout the Midwest and North East United States. About 500,000 people in Kentucky were left Powerless. Ice was thick as 8 cm in some areas. There were 23 Deaths, with 6 deaths in Texas. Regions of Southern Ontario received between 5–20 cm, with 20–30 cm in Eastern Ontario and Southern Quebec. Similar amounts fell in the Atlantic Provinces, with some rain/snow mixing in at times, as some areas got above the 0 C (32 F) mark.\n\nOn January 21, heavy rain cause worst floods in 40 years in Brunei Darussalam. Heavy rains started late on Tuesday in the oil-rich capital of Bandar Seri Begawan, causing flash floods and landslides, interrupting power supply and shutting some telephone lines. About 145.8 millimetres of rainfall was recorded during the 24-hour period from 8 am Tuesday to 8 am Wednesday, according to the weather department, which expects more rain in the coming days but not as heavy as on Tuesday. Two casualties were reported.\n\nOn the 27th up to 10 cm of heavy wet snow fell in Eastern Metro Vancouver, the surrounding Fraser Valley in British Columbia, and Kitsap Country in Washington. At this point, the winter of 2008-2009 was one of the snowiest in years for Southwestern British Columbia and the pacific northwest as winter storm after winter storm pounded the region from mid-December through to early January. Some locations received up to 125 cm of snow during that period and snowcover for Vancouver exceeded 60 cm at one point in late December pointing to flood concerns on the then ice-jammed Fraser river.\n\nA warm, moist Mediterranean cyclone began to move (unusually?) northwards over France, against a cold continental high pressure ridge, causing the cyclone to discharge its moisture as snow over large areas of western Europe. The system was vigorous enough to produce a winter-time tornado in Málaga.\n\nOn February 1 and 2, heavy snow fell overnight across large parts of the United Kingdom, causing widespread disruption to transport and education. London received its heaviest snowfalls in 18 years. Many roads, including the M25 London Orbital motorway, were blocked in the morning rush hour, whilst train services are disrupted and many airport runways closed. Transport for London suspended all London Buses and the London Underground was severely disrupted. Hundreds of schools were forced to close.\n\nAirports were affected included London's Heathrow and Gatwick airports. Charles de Gaulle Airport and Orly Airport were affected.\n\nSpain, Germany, Portugal and Ireland were also affected. In Ireland, snowstorms disrupted road and rail transport, including the M50 and M1. Dublin Airport and Cork Airport were severely disrupted, as were ferry services in the Irish Sea throughout February 2.\n\nIreland was affected in a similar way to the UK. In the Republic, the South and East were the worst affected. Due to black ice, driving was very treacherous, with ice and snow blocking many major routes such as the M1 and M50. Dublin Airport and Cork Airport were seriously affected, with many flights to Britain and Europe delayed and cancelled. The major rail routes across Ireland were closed down, as a result of bad ice and snow. Temperatures across Ireland fell below average everywhere, with temperatures of -8 and -9 degrees Celsius recorded in places.\n\nThe snow was a result of wind blowing across from West Siberia, and reacted with the low pressure system approaching across from the Atlantic. This created unusually large amounts of snow, which fell across England, Wales and Eastern Ireland. This weather type is rare in Ireland, and is normally confined to small amounts; however, the total amount of snowfall in this storm was the highest since 1981.\n\nA winter storm developing over the Gulf states and through the Gulf of Mexico, is bringing widespread Heavy Rain to the South Eastern States of the US. Up to 100 mm is possible in some areas. Coastal areas of North Eastern United States can expect snowfall of up to 6 inches (15 cm) in some areas, local amounts may be higher. Atlantic Canada will see strong winds and snowfall amounts of 15–30 cm (6–12 inches).\n\nA small weather system carrying snow that developed in North France reached South East England and the Midlands which brought 20–30 cm (8–12 inches) of snow in some parts of Gloucestershire. Further snow came in from the south and east throughout the week. The worst places affected was the Forest of Dean and The Cotswolds. On 6 February a few small towns in Devon reported around 55 cm (22 inches) of lying snow (Okehampton). The Severn Bridge, the main link between England and Wales closed due to falling ice for the first time. Some 321 schools in Buckinghamshire, 300 schools in Gloucestershire and 307 schools in Wales also closed on the 6th.\n\nAbout 3,000 people were killed as a storm complex paced over Haiti on the 6th \n\nA winter storm from the Atlantic reached southern Britain and the Midlands on 9–10 causing heavy rain and flooding. Across the midlands and further north, it was cold enough for it to fall as snow. Coupled with the strong winds, it made blizzard conditions. The Met office issued an extreme winter storm warning for many counties in Great Britain. Meanwhile, a temperature of was recorded in the Scottish Highlands — the coldest UK temperature since 2003. Smaller outbreaks of snow occurred across parts of the north and east of England on 12–13 February.\n\nA major storm developing over Texas is affecting many communities in North America. Areas like Oklahoma City were hit hard with heavy rain, hail and a tornado in western Oklahoma City. There have been numerous spottings of funnel clouds. Heavy rain continues through Texas and Kansas, which will extend into Missouri, Arkansas and Louisiana. Areas of Michigan, Illinois and SW Ontario could see pop-up thunderstorms, but likely not as severe. Northern Ontario will see mostly an ice-rain event. While areas to the South could see 25–50 mm (1–2 inches).\n\nA major storm affected Newfoundland with strong winds gusting to 100 km/h in some areas. Bitterly cold conditions, strong winds and heavy snowfall caused a blizzard through parts of Newfoundland. Some areas of Newfoundland received between 20–40 cm. Local areas and local drifts were locally higher.\n\nA winter storm that developed over Colorado brought messy weather across the Great plains, Midwest U.S., the Great Lakes and Northeast United States. Some areas had a messy mix of snow, ice and rain. Toronto had seen about 10 cm. South Western Ontario saw between 1–10 cm. Northern Areas of Ontario and Quebec received between 10–25 cm. Eastern Ontario received between 10–20 cm. The northeast saw local amounts of over 15 cm. From Midwestern sections of the U.S. to the Southern Lakes messy mix was reported with rain at times. Southern United States saw heavy amounts of rainfall, Thunderstorms and Tornado warnings were issued in some areas.\n\nThe Atlantic provinces are seeing heavy snowfall and some mixed precipitation. Areas could exceed 10 cm. Newfoundland could get more heavy snowfall.\n\nAn Alberta clipper, which picked up moisture from the Gulf, dumped about 5–20 cm across the Midwest, and the Great lakes area. Areas like Windsor saw close to 15 cm, Toronto saw about 5–12 cm. Eastern Ontario and Southern Quebec could see slightly higher amounts as a coastal low develops, and gives heavier snow. Northeastern United States are seeing snow, mix precipitation and rainfall. The heavier snowfall is towards New England and Maine.\n\nAtlantic Canada is seeing blizzard like conditions. 15–40 cm is possible is some areas. Winter storm warnings and snowfall warnings are in place.\n\nA major winter storm which brought up to 16\" of snow to parts of West Tennessee and Arkansas and up to 7\" of snow to parts of Georgia (including the Atlanta area), Alabama (including Birmingham) and Mississippi gathered strength and moved northeastward, in the process crossing the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area before impacting the greater New York and greater Philadelphia areas. The storm was a large, widespread storm, with snow totals exceeding across most of the tri-state area. as well as 3–7 inches north of Rockland County, as well as scattered amounts of 17–20 inches in New Jersey and Pennsylvania.\n\nOn March 1 to 2 a heavy dust storm hits N.E. China and parts of Mongolia. It then parses over the Bo Hai Sea and the Yellow Sea, finally dispersing over North Korea and South Korea in the 4th \n\nOn the 7th, heavy rain induced floods killed 52 in Bolivia, 19 in Peru, and 16 in Ecuador, said news reports.\n\nA quick late winter storm caused about 5–15 cm of snow in Metro Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada with cold wind chills as low as -10 °C and with sustained winds at about 20 km/h.\n\nSnow storm strands 2 busses, 53 cars and 83 people on the Ust-Kamenogorsk-Georgiyevka highway in Kazakhstan on March 13.\n\nHeavy snow and ice hits the Sea of Okhotsk, Sakhalin Island and Primorsky Krai in Russia far east on March 22.\n\nA major blizzard hit Denver and other counties around the area on Thursday, March 26. Parts of the Front Range saw of snow and schools around Denver were closed early. Denver International Airport canceled more than 400 planes departing and arriving. On Friday, March 27, the storm impacted Kansas, northwestern Oklahoma, and the Texas Panhandle, with 12 to of snow and blizzard conditions. Some areas around Pratt County, Kansas and Kiowa County, Kansas received 28\" of Snowfall. Snow Drifts reached high in Dalhart, Texas. On Friday night and into Saturday, March 28, the storm system impacted the Kansas City area and northern parts of Missouri, before moving into the Quad Cities area, Northern Illinois and Southern Wisconsin on Saturday night. Numerous areas here saw between 4 and 8\" of snow. Waukegan, Illinois, saw around half a foot from this late-season winter blast.\n\nA late major winter storm coming from New England was expected to hit the Maritime Provinces on Easter. 15–30 cm of snow is expected in most areas, and Halifax and southern areas were to see heavy rain.\n\nAnother 15 people and 10,000 head of cattle had died by this date in Mongolia. Snow also fell on Russia's Sakhalin island.\n\nHeavy rain and storm with twister in Czech Republic\n\nHeavy rain falls in parts of the Ukraine.\n\nJuly 11 saw heavy storms flood the Chinese city of Shuzou, in Jiangsu Province.\n\nOn July 17, flooding caused by heavy rain and hailstorms hit Nanaimo village, and its environs as bad weather sweeps over most of Mongolia, killing 24 people as it did so.\n\nOn July 24, the Dakar Rally stage in Mauritania due to heavy sandstorms and high winds.\n\nAugust 5 and 6 saw the Maritime affairs department in Hainan province issued an emergency tropical storm warning to 20,000 fishing vessels in the South China Sea as Typhoons Morakot and Goni, approached China's Guangdong Province. Heavy storms hit the cities of Guangzhou,\nZhuhai and Haikou. More than 953,000 residents and more than 35,000 boats were evacuated back to shore in the eastern and southeastern provinces of the People's Republic of China as Typhoons Morakot approached A fishing boat capsized with nine fishermen missing. 3 people died in the China and 462 died in Taiwan.\n\nBlizzards in southern Brazil, reached 1,000,000 people, closing roads. Maximum accumulation of snow 50 cm (20 in) and a minimum temperature of −7 °C (19 °F).\n\nA stream of moisture that emerged from the Gulf of California brought rain to Southern California. A flash flood warning was issued for Central and Eastern San Diego County as a result of the rain. Later on, the system moved north and started to move towards the east coast on Sunday, August 23. The remaining thunderstorms lingered around in Central and Eastern San Diego County until Friday, August 28 before finally moving towards the east coast.\n\nA heavy and rainy cyclone hit the Bering sea, Choris Peninsula and parts of the Aleutian islands on September 2. A heavy storm hit parts of the Beaufort Sea and parts of the Chukchi Sea on September 4.\n\nHeavy rain and floods on the 4th also lead to both cars were under water and bales of wheat are floating down the swollen river past Mr A.J. Duncan's farms at Muirden Farm, Turriff, Aberdeenshire. Both Oxbridge and Publican spring barley planting was at risk if the flood waters did not clear quickly.\n\nOn the 8th unusually heavy rain hit Argentina, and storms hit Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, killing 14 or 15 people (reports varied). Tornados his Argentina to. A town official in Santa Rosa, Paulo Alvez appealed for help for both the town of Santa Rosa and El Progreso.\n\nArkansas witnessed heavy flooding on the 7th and 8th.\n\nA heavy and snowy cyclone hit the Kedrovaya River in Primorsky Krai and parts of the Aleutian islands on October 1.\n\nA heavy and rainy cyclone hit the Bering sea and parts of the Chukchi Sea on October 3. 21 people were confirmed dead following rainstorms and landslides in Sicily. A fishing boat was damaged at sea off the coast of Sicily. Austria saw heavy flooding, with lesser levels in the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia, Slovakia, Romania, Moldova and southern parts of Ukraine. Two Ukrainians and a Moldovan died in the storm.\n\n5 days of unusually heavy rain left 205 dead, 125 injured and 750,000 homeless in southern India by October the 5th. Indian and Sri Lankan medical teams managed to save many lives across Tamil Nadu and Kerala states.\n\nLate on October 11, the disorganized remnants of Super Typhoon Melor were absorbed by another low-pressure system just north of it, similar to how Typhoon Kujira's remnants were absorbed by another extratropical system. The extratropical cyclone rapidly intensified as it neared the Pacific Northwest. Several wind and flood watches/warnings were issued on October 17 in advance for the expected arrival of the winter storm. A high wave advisory was issued for the entire western seaboard. Just before midnight of October 18, the powerful winter storm struck California with gale-force winds and torrential rainfall. In Northern California, the rainfall was seemingly endless. The San Francisco Bay area suffered the most damage, from 40-foot (12 m) high waves and reported gusts of 85 mph (140 km/h). A rare storm warning was posted for San Francisco Bay and subsequently, wind gusts were clocked at 75 mph (125 km/h) on Angel Island. While the main system remained offshore, the storm's moisture split into two new systems over the Western United States, which rapidly moved eastward across the US, bringing strong winds and heavy rain. On December 20, after looping back north into the Gulf of Alaska, the storm complex was absorbed by another stronger extratropical cyclone approaching from the west. The damage that the storm complex caused is currently estimated at about $1.18 million (2009 USD).\n\nHeavy snow fell in parts of Pennsylvania between October 15 and 16. State College, Pennsylvania saw ten inches (254 mm) of wet snow, causing a very memorable Penn State homecoming game, and breaking numerous records, such as earliest recorded snowfall, most severe October snowstorm, and most snow in the month of October. Moderate snow fell between October 15 and 18 in the Northeastern United States, as far as the suburbs of New York City, with light snow being reported in the city itself. Boston suburbs saw moderate, wet snow fall on the morning of October 16, in spots accumulating up to . The area was then hit on October 18, when in the afternoon, heavy rain turned to heavy snow and almost white-out conditions. The ground was too warm for any significant accumulation, but up to were reported at spots between Boston and Lowell. All of the snow melted by October 20.\n\nOn 12 October 2009, Just over 200 herdsmen and 1,000 heads of livestock had been stranded by heavy snowfalls in Ali prefecture. The week-long snowfall had accumulated to about 30 centimetres in Pulan County in Ali, with some areas reaching as much as 1 meter depth, according to Xing Xiuyin, head of an armed police detachment stationed in the Tibetan region. 30 soldiers and two snow-clearing machines were sent on the way to Ali, according to Xing Xiuyin.\nThousands of people were trapped as heavy snow fell in Tibet's Lhunze County, but rescue services managed to minimize the casualties and damage to homes. The rescue services also managed to provide shelter and emergency fodder for 200 head of cattle. By October 13, snow was reported by Chinese authorities to be falling in both Qinghai and Heilongjiang Provinces.\n\nOn 15 October 2009, Germany, Austria and Poland were hit by heavy snowstorms. One person died after falling in a Tyrolian lake by accident.\n\n27,000 lightning strikes and heavy rainstorms hit parts of Spain in just over 12 hours on 16 October.\n\nOn October 16 the cold weather in Poland kills 4 people and the Czech power company CEZ Group declared a state of emergency in 8 regions due to the widespread reports of fallen power lines. The town of Jablonec nad Nisou was mostly blacked out by a power outage. Heavy snow was reported in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Liechtenstein and the Austrian province of Styria.\n\nBetween October 29 and 30 a very powerful winter storm battered the west coast of the USA, although it did not affect Southern California. It was very windy in the places that it hit, but the storm only stayed there for two days. The storm left and traveled towards the east coast after that day. The only affect the storm had on Southern California was bringing a cloudy day with very cold temperatures.\n\nHeavy snowfall hit Russia's Primorsky Territory on October 31, as the cold windstorm moved from the Sea of Okhotsk to the coast of the Kamchatka Peninsula, bringing heavy snow and rain to the region that meteorologists expected to last another 24 hours. They also warned that temperatures would fall by up to 15 degrees and that weather conditions could make traveling difficult as snowfall in the Vladivostok area had already significantly impeded travel by larger vehicles. The city administration's official Yevgeny Kolpinets told the Russian news agency Itar-Tass that the inclement weather had stopped bus traffic in the city, but luckily no energy supply service problems had been reported. Weather forecasters expected more cyclone-generated snow fall over the next few days.\n\nOn November 3, the Harbin Snow Festival\nThe festival was first started in 1985 and had never before seen such heavy snowfall. Harbin is China's tenth-largest city with a population of about 4,500,000, so planned electricity rationing would hit this usually busy city hard, as would the planned rationing in Beijing. The worst snowstorms in Northeastern China since 1949 claimed 40 lives, destroyed thousands of buildings and destroyed almost of winter crops, according to the Civil Affairs Ministry. The snowfall was the heaviest in the provinces of Hebei, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Shandong and Henan since the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949.\n\nOn November 4, Tropical Storm Ida hits Nicaragua and later the Gulf of Mexico. The Lower Mississippi River Forecast Center puts out a flood alert on the Mississippi River By November the 7th, a storm waning was also out in Pinar del Río, in western Cuba, as it headed out of Central America and in to southern Mexico. Winds of 70 mph (110 km/h) were forecast for Yucatán Peninsula and Yucatán Channel. Heavy rain was reported in parts of Haiti. A rainfall of 3 to is predicted by local authorities and the Lower Mississippi River Forecast Center for both the Yucatán Peninsula and western Cuba. By the 10th, it had virtually died out and was only a bad storm in New Orleans and Pensacola. 35-45 M.P.H. winds and heavy rain battered the rest of Florida‘s Gulf Coast and Alabama's Dauphin Island. The remnants of the storm then caused some more snow to fall in the southern parts the Great Plains on region the 11th and 12th.\n\nOn November 10, heavy rain and intermittent snow hit the Cheviot Hills, Pennines, Dee Valley in Wales and The Wash. Light snow fell in the Grampian Mountains and Aberdeenshire. Passing sleet was also recorded in Lincolnshire on the 10th. A flood watch was put on the River Tay and the River Dee. Minor surface flooding had already occurred in parts of Lincolnshire and Cumbria after the previous two days flooding.\n\n11 November 2009, saw snow and/or rain storms menacing Hungary, Iceland, India's part of the Himalayas (rain and snow), parts of Indonesia (rain only), north western Iran, northern Iraq, Mount Fuji in Japan and in Armenia. Yet more snow storms hit the People's Republic of China, disrupting traffic across the northeastern provinces, Beijing and Tibet on November the 10th and 11th. Most of Bulgaria's poor drainage systems and second-rate storm drains failed during the day's heavy rain and windstorms. Snow was also present in most of the mountain regions.\n\nHeavy snowfall in China caused school building collapses and the deaths of 38 people on the 18th.\n\nFloods on the 10th and 11th killed 8 in Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul, according to the state's Civil Defence Department. 4 others were killed in Argentina and Uruguay. 22,000 people were evacuated in each nation as heavy rain made the rivers between Uruguay and Argentina to overflow its banks.\n\nAfter a rather snowy November 11, Iceland's weather became rather unusual. From November 12 to December 30, Iceland's abnormally warm and dry November weather gave way and December became very snowy with the town of Akureyri receiving 35 cm of snow over the night of December 1–2. Snow fell and blizzards occurred intermittently throughout a windy December.\n\nOn December 12, heavy snow hit Dimmuborgir, Iceland.\n\nA blizzard and about half a foot of snow fell on the 1,040 m high Peak Chekhov, near Yuzhno, Sakhalin Island, on November 14, 2009.\n\nMany properties were flooded in Ambleside on November 18, leaving the main road impassible for most vehicles. Over 200 people in Cockermouth were rescued from their homes by the emergency services.\n\nOn the Isle of Man, there were brief power cuts on the 18th, in Ballaragh and Laxey but Manx Electricity restored power to all affected properties by the afternoon.\n\nOn the 20th, all services on the West Coast Main Line were still temporarily suspended after a landslip between Carlisle and Penrith. The West Coast Main Line was flooded between Carlisle and Carstairs and was closed as a result. Services were reduced between Edinburgh and Glasgow and also Edinburgh and Dunblane.\nIn Workington, the collapse of Northside Bridge carrying the A597 road and the condemnation of Calva Bridge carrying the A596 resulted in a journey from Northside to the town centre. Network Rail are constructed a temporary railway station, Workington North, to help Northside residents get into and out of town. The 170 members of the Royal Engineers from 170 (Infrastructure Support Unit) installed a temporary footbridge upstream of Calva Bridge, which opened as scheduled, on 5 December 2009.\n\nAs a result of the loss of all road and footbridges in Workington on November 19, it was announced that a new ailway station, Workington North, would be built on wasteland leased for two years from Allerdale Council. The station was scheduled to open by 28 November with services provided by Northern Rail. Workington North opened on 30 November 2009.\n\nThe government pledged £1,000,000 to the reconstruction of the shattered town, but deemed any new (permanent) road or a (temporary) rail bridge unnecessary and only allowed the army engineers to build a temporary foot bridge at state expense to begin with. Northern Rail, Network Rail and a local contractor all helped in the building of Workington North. The Department for Transport announced that it would fund the service until 31 December 2009, at a cost of £216,000. All trains between Workington, Workington North, Flimby and Maryport would be free of charge until 31 December 2009.\n\nHeavy sandstorms hit Mauritania on Nov 22.\n\nCounty Fermanagh was hit by heavy rain on November the 23rd. Many roads were flooded or hit by landslides. The B36 Dernawilt Road between Enniskillen and Killyfole was one of many that were affected by the storm. Both Lough Erne and the Colebrooke River were put on flood alert.\n\nA mini-tornado tore through Maypole Lane in the Derbyshire village of Littleover the next day, November 24. Derbyshire Fire and Rescue Service reported moderate damage in the Village\n\n25 November saw fierce winds rattling Dublin Airport and parts of the east coast of Ireland, leading to the diversion of ten aircraft—seven aircraft to Shannon Airport and three aircraft to Manchester Airport. Some of the affected aircraft were transatlantic flights from destinations such as Chicago and New York.\n\nEarly on November 21 the Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) reported that an area of convection had persisted within a monsoon trough about 880 km, (545 mi) to the southeast of Guam.\nThe typhoon later weakened to a category four, before re-strengthening to a category five on November 27, remaining quasi-stationary for more than two days. It weakened to a tropical depression on December 2, after sending bursts of moisture into the jet stream. The storm dissipated on December 3.\n\nOn November 25, a cold extratropical cyclone tracked into Russia's Primorsky Territory from the Yellow Sea. Weather forecasters correctly predicted snow, gale-force wind and temperatures between 0 and −2 °C, with one night's temperature drop reaching −25°С. Over the next week the daytime temperature was predicted to be between 2°С to -10°С, with a nighttime temperature between −24 and −25 °C. The wind speed was expected to be between 0 and . Both ice and avalanche warnings were issued for a week (to December 2) as heavy snow was predicted for both Primorsky Krai and Amur Krai, but significantly less than expected actually occurred over the week and the storm finally cleared up on 30 November, rather than on December 2.\n\nA powerful storm (probably the earlier one from Primorsky Krai) stalled in the Gulf of Alaska on November 25. On the 26th, its wind field produced high tides on the western seaboard. The storm weakened significantly on the 27th and moved towards Southern California, bringing heavy rainfall starting early in the morning and causing strong winds. The storm left Southern California and moved on to batter the east coast during the afternoon of Sunday, November 29, 2009. A heavy and snowy cyclone hit the Aleutian islands on November 30.\n\nBy November 27 heavy rain was moving over the Irish Sea is set to give some heavy rain then turning to snow over parts of the Peak District, with altitudes above 1000 feet (300 m), dropping over 2 inches (5.1 cm) of snow in some places. This is the usual snowfall for parts of Scotland, including the West Highlands and the East Highlands.\n\nIn the U.K., Cumbria's Workington North Temporary Station was officially opened on 30 November 2009.\n\nOn the 30th more than 100 people died as heavy rain flood Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The poorly designed and built local infrastructure and mismanagement of city works construction have been blamed, as well as the effects of Global Warming.\n\nOn December 1 and 2 heavy rain fell in the British Isles, and into the night, the rain band hit the cold air and turned to snow giving about 1 foot (30 cm) on some hilltops and mountains across Scotland.\n\nOn 2 December, thousands of acres of Irish farmland remained underwater, floodwaters were still rising in some County Galway villages and roads in County Clare and Galway were still impassable. Floods were still in situ across the UK and both bus and train services were disrupted in Essex, Cumbria and Pembrokeshire. The River Severn and River Derwent were put on flood watch by the Environment Agency.\n\nToronto, Ontario, Canada was hit by both a cold front and two extreme cold weather warnings between December 3 and January 1. A strong arctic cold front moved through Alberta from the northwest, bringing from to 1 foot (10 cm to 30 cm) of snowfall. Winds gusted to 50 mph (80 km/h), causing whiteout and blizzard conditions across most of Alberta. The southern half of the province got the worst of the storm. The winds blew the snow into massive drifts and snow banks up to 10 feet (3 m) in height. Numerous communities in Calgary were completely snowed in for three days, from December 5 to 7. Numerous cars and trucks were abandoned, with many of them buried up to their roofs in snow.\n\nBetween December 4–7 a heavy snow storm hit Calgary and disrupted travel in general Canada.\n\nThe December 2009 North American snowstorms were a meteorological event in North America that started on December 11. The snowstorms brought record amounts of snow to the Midwest and contributed to deaths of 16 people. The storms affected a number of US states, including Arizona, Wisconsin and New York, as well as Canada. Although the initial storm had virtually subsided by December 11, further snow was expected to fall.\n\nA weak disturbance that started overnight on December 6 stalled over the western United States and intensified rapidly. Heavy downpours began early in the morning of December 7 and continued non-stop until the evening, triggering flash-flood watches. The storm dropped as much as 4.5 in (110 mm) of rain in Cuyamaca, San Diego, causing blackouts in some locations. This storm was followed by a small semi-tropical winter storm which started overnight on December 10 and then stalled over Southern California and intensified, causing heavy downpours. In addition to of rain, this storm gave pea-sized-hail and gusty winds before weakening and moving away from Southern California on December 13.\n\nHeavy snow hit Wisconsin, New York, Washington, D.C. and parts of Maryland on the 10th and 14th. Heavy rain hit parts of Arizona on the 11th.\n\nIn Vancouver, BC a strong winter storm deposited anywhere from 10–30 cm of heavy snow from the night of the 12th through to the morning of the 15th after a frigid arctic air that had been over the region for days with as low as -15 °C temperatures met with moist Pacific air.\n\nLight snow began to fall in the Grampian Mountains on December 8. On the 8th more heavy snow showers followed on the 18th. Heavy overnight snow caused widespread disruption across England in the South East, East Anglia, the East Midlands and Yorkshire and the Humber. East Winds brought further snowfalls in the northern half of the UK.\n\nOvernight, five Eurostar trains were stuck in the Channel Tunnel, trapping 2,000 people for 16 hours after electrical failures due to cold temperatures. Many schools in England were closed on the 9th. During the December 2009 European snowfall, four Eurostar trains broke down inside the Channel Tunnel, after leaving France, and one in Kent on 18 December. Although the trains had been winterised, the systems had not coped with the conditions. Over 2,000 passengers were stuck inside failed trains inside the tunnel, and over 75,000 had their services disrupted. All Eurostar services were cancelled from Saturday 19 December to Monday 21 December 2009. An independent review, published on 12 February 2010, was critical of the contingency plans in place for assisting passengers stranded by the delays, calling them \"insufficient\".\n\nThe cold weather began in earnest on December 10, with temperatures in Braemar, Aberdeenshire reaching a low of −4.9 °C on the 10th, −7 °C on the 11th, and −8.9 °C on the 12th. This was the beginning of the \"Big Freeze\". Between December 11 and 16, cold air from the north and east brought subzero temperatures to many northern parts of the UK and the southern county of Oxfordshire, along with dense fog.\n\nA major blizzard killed 11 people in Romania between December 14 and 21.\n\nWintery showers of rain, sleet, and heavy snow affected East and South-East parts of the United Kingdom. On 18 December, heavy snowfall caused widespread disruption and travel chaos across large parts of Lancashire, South East England, East Anglia, the East Midlands and Yorkshire and the Humber, forcing schools to close early for the upcoming Christmas holiday and cutting power supplies in some areas. The heaviest snowfall in 20 years also caused temperatures to fall as low as in the Scottish Highlands.\n\nMore heavy snow showers followed on December 18. Heavy overnight snow caused widespread disruption across England in the South East, East Anglia, the East Midlands, Yorkshire, and the Humber. Five Eurostar trains were stuck in the Channel Tunnel after electrical failures due to cold temperatures, trapping 2,000 people for up to 16 hours. Many schools in England were closed on December 18.\n\nHeavy snowfall and sub-zero temperatures killed at least 290 people across Europe. Temperatures fell to as low as in Germany, suspending and cancelling flights and stranding thousands of Christmas passengers. As many as 40% of flights from Paris's two airports, Orly and Charles de Gaulle, were cancelled. Berlin Tegel Airport, Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport, and Frankfurt International Airport were forced to close due to ice on the runway.\n\nHeavy snow fell in both the Russian territories of Krasnodar Krai and in the Russian Far East on December the 18th. The Far Eastern storm had heavy snow flurries occurred across the Sea of Okhotsk, Cape Lopatka, Avacha Bay, Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, Volcanoes of Kamchatka, which a UNESCO World Heritage Site in the Kamchatka Peninsula's Central Range Mountains on December the 18th.\nOn December 20, 3 people froze to death in Steiermark, Austria, while blizzards hit S.W. Norway. December 21 and 22 saw 20 cm of snow fall in Moscow and nearby towns Temperatures of as low as −20 °C killed 47 people in Poland on December 20. In northern Italy, some locations recorded the lowest temperature since 1985, with one low reaching −17 °C (1.4 °F). Finland, the UK, Belgium, and the Netherlands also recorded record low temperatures.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, many major motorways, including the M25, M4, M40 and M1, were brought to a standstill due to snow drifts, cold, and ice, leaving many towns gridlocked. The UK's Highways Agency tried to grit the M11 and M1, only to have a gritter van skid off the M11 and into a deep snow drift. Some people were able to travel from London Victoria Station to Ashford International railway station courtesy of a steam train hauled by \"Tornado\". Widespread transport disruption to roads, railways, buses, and airports affected much of England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.\n\nIn Zagreb, Croatia, around 50 passengers were injured when a train travelling from Sisak to Zagreb failed to stop due to black ice on the rails and hit a buffer at the city's main railway station. One person suffered life-threatening injuries, while some 40 others required medical attention. A homeless man froze to death in southern Kosovo during a localized snowstorm. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3 people were found dead from hypothermia in Sarajevo and Teslić.\n\nA powerful nor'easter brought blizzard conditions to the northeastern and mid-atlantic United States, as well as Nova Scotia in Canada on the 16th of December. Washington, D.C. received nearly two feet (over 60 cm) of snow, setting a city record for December snowfall. New York City and southern New England were forecast to receive over a foot of snow. The snow covered most of New England, disrupting travel in New York and Pennsylvania as local record low temperatures are recorded as snow falls in Florida on the 17th. Seven people were killed as a result of the storm.\n\n19 December 2009 also saw a meeting of both meteorological , provincial and governmental officials from across Eastern Siberia and the neighbouring provinces of Northeast China on how to cope with any future severe storms in southern Sakhalin Island and Heilongjiang Province. 8 people had died on the island by this date\n\nOn December 20, nearly a foot and a half of snow fell in parts of Buncombe County and around other parts of North Carolina, with the highest amounts seen north and east of Transylvania County. This was the most snow seen in the region since 1996. Two feet of snow was recorded on Mt. Mitchell. National Guard units were mobilized to help stranded drivers and clear roads. Red Cross and National Guard shelters were opened in Buncombe, Madison and McDowell counties to accommodate travellers stranded by miles-long backups on the congested and debris-strewn I-40 and I-26. Hundreds of trees and limbs fell under the weight of the snow, blocking roads and leaving tens of thousands without power or phones. On December 22, blizzard conditions also struck Washington, D.C. Snow fall would be widely spread across the north eastern USA and most of the Eastern Seaboard.\n\nOn December 20 snow near the city of Hanover caused miles-long traffic jams on the Autobahn.\nThere had been road 50 accidents reported on the stretch of Autobahn, which only has 5-6 accident a day in normal weather. The trains running between Warsaw and Poznań were delayed by at least an hour due to snow drifts on the tracks and fallen power lines. The Polish Meteorological Institute predicted the weather would not change for the next few days and temperatures would stay at -10C for the next couple of days. Poland, northern Germany, Scandinavia, Lithuania and Hungary would all see at least some heavy snow in places that day. Light snow was reported in most parts on continental Europe and the UK by the 22nd. Twenty-three football matches and two horse races were called off in the UK.\n\nIn Mongolia, heavy December snowstorms killed 2,000 cattle and 2 people. The worst of the snowstorms occurred between December 21 and January 3.\n\nOn December 21 blizzards disrupted New England, south western Ukraine, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Bosnia, Serbia, Paris, the Netherlands and London.\n\nOn December 22, a blanket of heavy snow fell upon large parts of Japan and South Korea, causing the deaths of 10 Japanese and 3 South Korean people. Snow was piled up to 184 cm high in parts of Niigata. Up to 650,000 homes and businesses lost electricity, and local trains were also halted by the power outage. In Fukui, two nuclear power plants automatically shut down due to technical problems caused by the unusually heavy snowfalls. South Korea deployed several thousand troops to clear highways and remove snow from the roofs of weak buildings after up to a metre of snow had fallen over the past two weeks. Although the storm certainly affected North Korea as well, no reports are available.\n\nAlso on the 22nd, snowstorms hit Leicestershire and Warsaw. At the same time, a Winter storm hit Moscow, Saint Petersburg, and parts of Tannu Tuva, while a Siberian cyclone started up over Yakutia and headed for Khabarovsk Krai.\n\nStarting on December 22, a large winter storm began moving across the Great Plains and Midwest. It claimed 21 lives, canceled hundreds of flights and knocked out power across most of West Virginia. The storm stalled and spun around itself for a few days before continuing northeast. Many parts of the Great Plains experienced heavy snowfall, while places further north such as Chicago and Ottawa received freezing rain. As the snow and rain subsided on the 27th, it left record rainfalls in Texas to the Upper Midwest. The storm dumped 23.9 in (60.7 cm) of snow in Grand Forks, North Dakota, and 18 in (45.7 cm) near Norfolk, Nebraska. In the East, higher temperatures and rains have started melting and washing away last week's record-setting snowfalls, threatening the region with flooding. The National Weather Service also of flooding in parts of the South and Midwest, and winter weather advisories were in effect in sections of Nebraska, Illinois, Indiana and Michigan through the Sunday. A man drowned after slipping into the Kennebec River, near Moosehead Lake in Maine.\n\nOver of snow fell in South Dakota. Several inches of snow also fell in the Las Vegas Valley, Nevada. In southern Ontario, snowsqualls fed into a cold front behind the main low pressure center of the storm to produce a rapid drop in temperatures on December 28.\n\nDecember 23 to 26 saw heavy snow hit both Primorsky (Primorye) Krai, Khabarovsk Krai, Sakhalin Oblast and Kamchatka Krai. The weekend saw a migratory cyclone bringing a warm spell and snowstorms reaching Primorsky on the Friday. Heavy snow badly disrupted life in Vladivostok in December as sleet and gale-force wind occurred on Primorsky Krai's south coast. Over two days, temperatures rose from -4 °C up to -2 °C. On the night of December 26 the strengthening cyclone began drifting to the southern coast of Primorsky and over Sakhalin Krai. Snow also fell in Amur Oblast. President Vladimir Putin visited Vladivostok on the 25th.\n\nHeavy snowfall also began in Saint Petersburg, Russia. By December 26, the city was under 35 cm of snow, creating the most December snowfall seen in the city since 1881. A snowstorm also occurred in parts of the Barents sea.\n\nOn December 30, an emergency warning about the passage of another powerful cyclone was issued to all the territories and population centres along Russia's Pacific Coast. The gales, heavy snowfall, blizzards and a sharp fall in air temperatures hit the Sea of Okhotsk and the surrounding territories of Primorsky Krai, Sakhalin Oblast, Khabarovsk Krai and Magadan Oblast. The Far Eastern territorial centre of the federal Ministry for Emergency Situations and Civil Defence (E.M.E.R.C.O.M.) warned that the cyclone would produce snow banks, icy conditions on roads, as well as snow bringing down phone and power transmission lines in Primorsky territory. The temperatures reckoned to have fallen near the expected −7 °C. The temperature was that which usually occurs in a Siberian cyclone, when it reaches the Russian Far East. Forecasters said there was a strong possibility of heavy snowfall and blizzards along the eastern districts of the Khabarovsk Krai, in parts of the Sakhalin Island and on the southern Kuril Islands December 31 and January 1.\n\nThe last week of 2009 saw an Arctic storm bearing down on Sakhalin Island, and local officials told people not to drive their cars outside any city limits and banned the rather dangerous practice of ice fishing, due to the purported death of a Nivkh fisherman, until the storm had passed. Nonetheless, dozens of cars were buried in snow and in one village, rescuers dug out 56 cars, freeing 74 passengers and giving aid to those who were haplessly trapped. People in cars that remained stuck were being provided with both water, bread and fuel via snowmobile. The towns of Korsakov and Poronaysk were worst hit, and parts of the local taiga forests of fir and birch had been entirely up-rooted and buried by the blizzard conditions.\n\nAbout 60% of the Italian city of Venice was flooded by a heavy rainstorm on December the 25th.\n\nParts of England again suffered repeated power cuts, and Scotland experienced fresh snowfall overnight on 26–27 December with the worst affected area being Perthshire, where between fell.\n\nTemperatures dropped to in parts of the Highlands overnight on 28–29 December, with Braemar recording Britain's lowest temperature of the winter. Fresh travel warnings were issued on 29 December as the wintry conditions continued to cause problems on Scotland's roads.\n\nThe runway of Inverness Airport was briefly closed because of snow and ice, and First ScotRail reduced services to and from Glasgow Central because of the severe conditions.\n\nThe snow and icy conditions were good for the Scottish ski industry, which said the weather helped it to experience its best start to the season for several years.\n\nWarnings of heavy snow were issued for Wales, the Midlands, north-west England, eastern and southern England, and Yorkshire and Humber. More snow began falling across parts of Wales and central and northern England on the evening of 29 December, with Wales recording the heaviest of the snow showers where some rural areas were cut off by of up to . Snow was also reported in parts of the West Midlands region and Yorkshire.\n\nIn Italy, December 30 saw hundreds of homes in Tuscany evacuated because of flooding and Spain's rescue services were on yellow danger alert after flash floods destroyed roads and landslides swept railways away. Transport Links between Almeria, Granada, Málaga and Sevilla were severed. Drought-blighted Andalusia has had its fifth day of rain, and Portugal was on orange flood alert. Authorities said the rain had destroyed millions of Euros worth of agricultural produce. The harbours were closed and the Madeira archipelago islands were also under threat of both flooding and gale-force winds, as 110 km/h whipped up six-metre -high waves.\n\nAt least two of the Russian Far East storms stacked up over the Gulf of Alaska during December 28. Various weather forecasts suggested that one would spread valley rain and mountain snow across Northern California and drop up to half an inch of rain across the northern Sacramento Valley over the next few days. The National Weather Service issued a Winter Weather Advisory warning for the Mount Shasta area, where forecasters expected 1 to of snow in town and up to above . The second cold front, and its related storm, would bring more rain and high country snow to the north state by New Year's Eve or New Year's Day.\n\nThe blizzards began on New Year's Eve, and lasted until January 3. The worst of the blizzards occurred on December 31, when an avalanche derailed a diesel locomotive fitted with a railway snowplough off its railway tracks. The storm continued through 1 January, when three workers sent to repair the damage were swept away by the howling blizzard that was ripping through Sakhalin Island according to the RIA Novosti news service. One worker was found alive and rescue teams retrieved the body of a second Sunday morning. The situation worsened to the point that 140 soldiers were ordered to help dig the train out from beneath of snow. A local man, Andrei Sukhonosov, trying to return home to the city of Tomari was on the buried train.\nAuthorities and rescue services in Sakhalin Oblast were put on alert, and warned of a high risk of avalanches on the island's numerous hills and mountains. Another avalanche warning was issued on the 2nd, for Sakhalin Island, due to hazardous levels of snowfall during yet another Siberian snow cyclone and blizzard, emergency officials said. The authorities in Primorsky and Khabarovsk Krai were also put on alert, just in case things got ant worse. The last two Russian Far Eastern storms dissipated in the Gulf of Alaska on January 5 and 6 respectively.\n\nFollowing the deadly 2009 North American Christmas winter storm, a medium-sized nor'easter formed in Texas and brought moderate snow to the western portion of the state on December 29. In anticipation of the event Texas Governor Rick Perry activated his resources ahead of the winter storm. It then moved through the Southeast and brought heavy rain and freezing rain to higher altitudes. Some snow was reported in Clayton, Georgia but did not accumulate. It then moved quickly up the East Coast of the United States, bringing freezing rain and sleet to the Mid-Atlantic and moderate to heavy snow to the Tri-State Area (New York, New Jersey, Connecticut). 5 inches (12.7 cm) at the most was reported in White Plains 4.5 inches (11.4 cm) in Hartford. It then brought about 2 inches (5 cm) to Boston and southeastern New England. Overnight January 1, it strengthened explosively over water and looped back around to create a blizzard in northern New England. Up to 19 inches (48 cm) was on the ground in Lubec, Maine by Sunday, and on Saturday it moved to southern New England. 13 inches (33 cm) fell in Lexington, Massachusetts making that the most fallen in southern New England in the season. Boston received 9 inches (23 cm). The storm moved into the Labrador Sea by Sunday afternoon, leaving behind a pattern where multiple storms within the broader low undergo cyclogenesis to track north of Newfoundland.\n\nSportscotland Avalanche Information Service (SAIS) issued warnings about conditions on Scottish mountains on December 30. However, three people died in three large avalanches. Two climbers were killed as a result of an avalanche on Ben Nevis, while a man was airlifted from Liathach, a mountain in Torridon, after getting into trouble, and died in hospital.\n\nContinued icy weather in Scotland on New Year's Eve led to the cancellation of Hogmanay celebrations in Inverness amid concerns over public safety. New Year celebrations in other parts of Scotland went ahead as planned. North-east Scotland experienced fresh snowfall during the afternoon and evening of 31 December. For a second time that week Inverness Airport was closed forcing several hundred passengers to make alternative arrangements. In Batley, West Yorkshire of water leaked into the local gas network, leaving 400 homes in Dewsbury and Batley without gas during sub-zero temperatures. The final homes were reconnected on 7 January.\n\nDecember 31 to January 5 saw heavy flooding in southern Spain and heavy snow in northern Spain.\n\nThe death toll finally stood at:\n\nMuch of the snowstorm activity coincided with Copenhagen Summit of December 2009 as well as the Climatic Research Unit email controversy one month prior. The unusual weather patterns that year (particularly in the Southern United States) provided an opportunity to promote or question the theory of global warming, and led to an increasing use of the phrase \"climate change\" as opposed to \"global warming.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3554316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3554316", "title": "Great Pacific garbage patch", "text": "Great Pacific garbage patch\n\nThe Great Pacific garbage patch, also described as the Pacific trash vortex, is a gyre of marine debris particles in the central North Pacific Ocean. It is located roughly from 135°W to 155°W and 35°N to 42°N. The collection of plastic, floating trash halfway between Hawaii and California extends over an indeterminate area of widely varying range depending on the degree of plastic concentration used to define it.\n\nThe patch is characterized by exceptionally high relative pelagic concentrations of plastic, chemical sludge, and other debris that have been trapped by the currents of the North Pacific Gyre. Despite the common public image of islands of floating rubbish, its low density (4 particles per cubic meter) prevents detection by satellite imagery, or even by casual boaters or divers in the area. It consists primarily of an increase in suspended, often microscopic, particles in the upper water column.\n\nThe patch is not easily seen from the sky, because the plastic is dispersed over a large area. Researchers from The Ocean Cleanup project claimed that the patch covers 1.6 million square kilometers. The plastic concentration is estimated to be up to 100 kilograms per square kilometer in the center, going down to 10 kilograms per square kilometer in the outer parts of the patch. An estimated 80,000 metric tons of plastic inhabit the patch, totaling 1.8 trillion pieces. 92% of the mass in the patch comes from objects larger than 0.5 centimeters. \n\nResearch indicates that the patch is rapidly accumulating.\n\nA similar patch of floating plastic debris is found in the Atlantic Ocean, called the North Atlantic garbage patch.\n\nThe patch was described in a 1988 paper published by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The description was based on research by several Alaska-based researchers in 1988 who measured neustonic plastic in the North Pacific Ocean. Researchers found relatively high concentrations of marine debris accumulating in regions governed by ocean currents. Extrapolating from findings in the Sea of Japan, the researchers hypothesized that similar conditions would occur in other parts of the Pacific where prevailing currents were favorable to the creation of relatively stable waters. They specifically indicated the North Pacific Gyre.\n\nCharles J. Moore, returning home through the North Pacific Gyre after competing in the Transpacific Yacht Race in 1997, claimed to have come upon an enormous stretch of floating debris. Moore alerted the oceanographer Curtis Ebbesmeyer, who subsequently dubbed the region the \"Eastern Garbage Patch\" (EGP). The area is frequently featured in media reports as an exceptional example of marine pollution.\n\nThe JUNK Raft Project was a 2008 trans-Pacific sailing voyage made to highlight the plastic in the patch, organized by the Algalita Marine Research Foundation.\n\nIn 2009, two project vessels from Project Kaisei, the \"New Horizon\" and the \"Kaisei\", embarked on a voyage to research the patch and determine the feasibility of commercial scale collection and recycling. The 2009 SEAPLEX expedition also researched the patch. Researchers were also looking at the impact of plastic on mesopelagic fish, such as lanternfish.\n\nAt TEDxDelft2012, Boyan Slat unveiled a concept for removing large amounts of marine debris from oceanic gyres. Calling his project The Ocean Cleanup, he proposed to use surface currents to let debris drift to collection platforms. Operating costs would be relatively modest and the operation would be so efficient that it might even be profitable. The concept makes use of floating booms that divert rather than catch the debris. This avoids bycatch, while collecting even the smallest particles. According to Slat's calculations, a gyre could be cleaned up in five years' time, amounting to at least 7.25 million tons of plastic across all gyres. He also advocated \"radical plastic pollution prevention methods\" to prevent gyres from reforming. In 2015, The Ocean Cleanup project was a category winner in the Design Museum's 2015 Designs of the Year awards. A fleet of 30 vessels, including a 32-metre (105-foot) mothership, took part in a month-long voyage to determine how much plastic is present using trawls and aerial surveys.\n\nThe 2012 Algalita/5 Gyres Asia Pacific Expedition began in the Marshall Islands on 1 May, investigated the patch, collecting samples for the 5 Gyres Institute, Algalita Marine Research Foundation and several other institutions, including NOAA, Scripps, IPRC and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute. In 2012, the Sea Education Association (SEA) conducted research expeditions in the gyre. 118 net tows were conducted and nearly 70,000 pieces of plastic were counted.\n\nIn 2012, researchers Goldstein, Rosenberg and Cheng found that microplastic concentrations in the gyre had increased by two orders of magnitude in the prior four decades.\n\nOn 11 April 2013, artist Maria Cristina Finucci founded \"The Garbage Patch State\" at UNESCO—Paris in front of Director General Irina Bokova.\n\nOn 9 September 2018, the first collection system was deployed to the gyre to begin the collection task.\nThis initial trial run of the Ocean Cleanup Project started towing its \"Ocean Cleanup System 001\" from San Francisco to a trial site some 240 nautical miles (260 miles) away.\nThe Great Pacific garbage patch formed gradually as a result of ocean or marine pollution gathered by ocean currents. It occupies a relatively stationary region of the North Pacific Ocean bounded by the North Pacific Gyre in the horse latitudes. The gyre's rotational pattern draws in waste material from across the North Pacific, including coastal waters off North America and Japan. As material is captured in the currents, wind-driven surface currents gradually move debris toward the center, trapping it.\n\nNo strong scientific data concerning the origins of pelagic plastics. In a 2014 study researchers sampled 1571 locations throughout the world's oceans, and determined that discarded fishing gear such as buoys, lines and nets accounted for more than 60% of the mass of plastic marine debris. According to a 2011 EPA report, \"The primary source of marine debris is the improper waste disposal or management of trash and manufacturing products, including plastics (e.g., littering, illegal dumping) ... Debris is generated on land at marinas, ports, rivers, harbors, docks, and storm drains. Debris is generated at sea from fishing vessels, stationary platforms, and cargo ships.\" Constituents range in size from miles-long abandoned fishing nets to micro-pellets used in cosmetics and abrasive cleaners. Currents carry debris from the west coast of North America to the gyre in about six years, and from the east coast of Asia in a year or less.\n\nA 2017 study concluded that of the 9.1 billion tons of plastic produced since 1950, close to 7 billion tons are no longer in use. The authors estimate that 9% was recycled, 12% was incinerated, and the remaining 5.5 billion tons remains in the oceans and land.\n\nThe size of the patch is indefinite, as is the precise distribution of debris, because large items are uncommon. Most debris consists of small plastic particles suspended at or just below the surface, evading detection by aircraft or satellite. Instead, the size of the patch is determined by sampling. Estimates of size range from (about the size of Texas) to more than (about the size of Russia). Such estimates, however, are conjectural given the complexities of sampling and the need to assess findings against other areas. Further, although the size of the patch is determined by a higher-than-normal degree of concentration of pelagic debris, there is no standard for determining the boundary between \"normal\" and \"elevated\" levels of pollutants to provide a firm estimate of the affected area.\n\nIn August 2009, the Scripps Institution of Oceanography/Project Kaisei SEAPLEX survey mission of the Gyre found that plastic debris was present in 100 consecutive samples taken at varying depths and net sizes along a path of through the patch. The survey found that, although the patch contains large pieces, it is on the whole made up of smaller items that increase in concentration toward the gyre's centre, and these 'confetti-like' pieces that are visible just beneath the surface suggests the affected area may be much smaller. 2009 data collected from Pacific albatross populations suggest the presence of two distinct debris zones.\n\nIn March 2018, The Ocean Cleanup published a paper summarizing their findings from the Mega- (2015) and Aerial Expedition (2016). In 2015, the organization crossed the Great Pacific garbage patch with 30 vessels, to make observations and take samples with 652 survey nets. They collected a total of 1.2 million pieces, which they counted and categorized into their respective size classes. In order to also account for the larger, but more rare larger debris, they also overflew the patch in 2016 with a C-130 Hercules aircraft, equipped with LiDAR sensors. The findings from the two expeditions, found that the patch covers 1.6 million square kilometers with a concentration of 10–100 kg per square kilometer. They estimate an 80,000 metric tons in the patch, with 1.8 trillion plastic pieces, out of which 92% of the mass is to be found in objects larger than 0.5 centimeters.\n\nNOAA stated:\n\nThe patch is one of several oceanic regions where researchers have studied the effects and impact of plastic photodegradation in the neustonic layer of water. Unlike organic debris, which biodegrades, plastic disintegrates into ever smaller pieces while remaining a polymer (without changing chemically). This process continues down to the molecular level. Some plastics decompose within a year of entering the water, releasing potentially toxic chemicals such as bisphenol A, PCBs and derivatives of polystyrene. As the plastic flotsam photodegrades into smaller and smaller pieces, it concentrates in the upper water column. As it disintegrates, the pieces become small enough to be ingested by aquatic organisms that reside near the ocean's surface. Plastic may become concentrated in neuston, thereby entering the food chain.\n\nDisintegration means that much of the plastic is too small to be seen. In a 2001 study, researchers found concentrations of plastic particles at 334,721 pieces per km with a mean mass of 5.1 kg (11.3 lbs) per km, in the neuston. The overall concentration of plastics was seven times greater than the concentration of zooplankton in many of the sampled areas. Samples collected deeper in the water column found much lower concentrations of plastic particles (primarily monofilament fishing line pieces).\n\nThe United Nations Ocean Conference estimated that the oceans might contain more weight in plastics than fish by the year 2050. Some long-lasting plastics end up in the stomachs of marine animals. Plastic attracts seabirds and fish. When marine life consumes plastic allowing it to enter the food chain, this can lead to greater problems when species that have consumed plastic are then eaten by other predators.\n\nAnimals can also become trapped in plastic nets and rings, which can cause death. Sea turtles are most affected by this.\n\nAffected species include sea turtles and the black-footed albatross. Midway Atoll receives substantial amounts of marine debris from the patch. \n\nOf the 1.5 million Laysan albatrosses that inhabit Midway Atoll, nearly all are likely to have plastic in their digestive system. Approximately one-third of their chicks die, and many of those deaths are from plastic unwittingly fed to them by their parents. Twenty tons of plastic debris washes up on Midway every year with five tons ending up in the bellies of albatross chicks. Fish and whales may also mistake the plastic as a food source.\n\nOn the microscopic level, debris can absorb organic pollutants from seawater, including PCBs, DDT and PAHs. Aside from toxic effects, some of these are mistaken by the endocrine system as estradiol, disrupting hormone levels in affected animals. These toxin-containing plastic pieces are also eaten by jellyfish, which are then eaten by fish and then by humans. \n\nMarine plastics facilitate the spread of invasive species that attach to floating plastic in one region and drift long distances to colonize other ecosystems. Debris affects at least 267 species worldwide. \n\nIncreasing microplastic concentrations has released the insect \"Halobates sericeus\" from substrate limitation. A positive correlation between H. sericeus and microplastic was observed, along with increasing \"H. sericeus\" egg densities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41103814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41103814", "title": "Gul Bahao", "text": "Gul Bahao\n\nGul Bahao is an internationally recognized Environmental NGO, based in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. It has received international recognition for its work on Environmental Research in Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "39928800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39928800", "title": "Harpans kraft", "text": "Harpans kraft\n\nHarpans kraft (Swedish) or Harpens kraft (Danish), meaning \"The Power of the Harp,\" is the title of a supernatural ballad type, attested in Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, and Icelandic examples.\n\nIn \"The Types of the Scandinavian Medieval Ballad\" it is catalogued type A 50, \"Man saves his bride from merman by playing his harp.\"\n\nThe ballad type tells of a hero whose betrothed has premonitions of a fall from a bridge into the river, which despite the hero's assurances and precautions comes true. But by the power of his harp-playing, he regains his bride from the river creature, which is referred to as a \"merman\" in the TSB catalog, but more precisely given as \"neck (water spirit)\" or troll in the original Scandinavian texts.\n\nThe ballad of this type occur under the following titles. Danish: \"Harpens kraft\" (\"DgF\" 40); Swedish: \"Harpans kraft\" (\"SMB\" 22); Norwegian: \"Villemann og Magnhild\" (NMB 26); \"Gaute og Magnild\" and \"Guðmund og Signelita\" (Landstad 51 and 52), etc.; and Icelandic: \"Gautakvæði\" \"Gauti's ballad\".\n\nNoted for its resemblance to the Greek myth of Orpheus, a harp-player with mystical powers, it may be related to medieval versions of that story such as the Middle English \"Sir Orfeo\".\n\nSimilarity has also been noted with the supernatural power of the harp in the Scottish ballad \"Glasgerion\" (Child ballad 67 variants B, C, \"He'd harpit a fish out o saut water,\" etc.).\n\nA bridegroom asks his betrothed why she is so sorrowful. At last she answers that she is going to fall into a river on her way to her wedding (as her sisters have done before her, in some Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish variants). The man promises to build a broad, strong bridge over the river, and he and his men will protect her. Despite precautions, the maiden's horse stumbles (or rears up) while over the bridge, and she tumbles into the river. The man has his golden harp brought to him and plays so beautifully that the \"merman\" (Danish: \"trold\"; Swedish: \"neck\" i.e. \"neck (water spirit)\") is forced to return his betrothed.\n\nThere exist Danish, Norwegian and Swedish variants where the water spirit restores the bride's two other sisters (or however many) who had been previously taken by the creature. The Icelandic version has a tragic ending, and the hero only recovers his bride's corpse.\n\nA list of available translations of the ballads from various Scandinavian languages are given under English Translations below.\n\nThe Danish analogue is \"Harpens kraft\" (\"Danmarks gamle Folkeviser\" no. 40). There are six versions (DgF 40A–F), taken mostly from manuscripts such as Karen Brahes Folio of the 1570s (Variant A). There is a broadside copy dating to 1778 (designated variant E). Another recension (variant F) has Swedish provenance, being copied out of a manuscript written in 1693 by a Swede in Næsum parish, Skåne County, Sweden, but Grundtvig counted it as a Danish example since the language was Danish, and it was suitable for comparing with text E.\n\nTranslations under the title \"The Power of the Harp\" exist, including one by R. C. Alexander Prior (1860) and by George Borrow (1913, 1923).\n\nGeijer and Afzelius gave 3 examples of \"Harpans kraft\" (GA 91, or in the later edition with Bergström, GAB 75). Altogether, the Swedish form is attested in \"Sveriges Medeltida Ballader\" (no. 22) in forty-nine variants (two of which are from Finland) from the 1690s onward (twenty-one variants of which have melodies). It may be noted that the earliest example included in \"SMB\" is the same as that catalogued as Danish ballad variant (DgF 40F) mentioned above, and which the early Swedish collectors concurred it was a \"\"halft dansk\" (half Danish)\" specimen.\n\nGijer and Afzelius's first variant (GA 91.1=SMB 22 H) localized in Östergötland has been translated as \"Power of the Harp\" by Edward Vaughan Kenealy (1864). The third variant (GA 91.3 =SMB 22J) from Västergötland and Vermland was translated by Thomas Keightley in his \"The Fairy Mythology\" (1828).\n\nIn the first variant (Kenealy tr.), the hero and bride are anonymous and merely called \"young swain (\"Ungersven\")\" and maiden, whereas in the third variant (Keightley tr.) they are named \"Peder\" and \"Liten Kerstin\" respectively.\n\nThe name of the feared river may be given as Vernamo river (GA 1), Ringfalla (GA 3), or Renfalla, Vendels, etc. A version explains the bride's guardsmen abandoned her side to go hunting when they spotted a \"hart with gilded horns\" in Ringfalla woods (GA 3, Keightley's translation).\n\nThe motif of harp-playing which forces a supernatural being to act in a certain way is also found in \"Sveriges Medeltida Ballader\" 21 G of \"Ungersven och havsfrun\" (which also ends happily). Conversely, the plot of variant 20 L (\"Necken bejlare\") is very similar to this ballad type, except that the bride's rescue by the harp has been deleted (and thus the ballad ends unhappily).\n\nIn Norway the ballad is generally known as \"Villemann og Magnhild\" and catalogued as \"Norske mellomalderballadar\" (NMB) no. 26 There are some 100 variants, although this count tallies up many fragmentary redactions only few stanzas long.\n\nSome variants are known by other titles: \"Harpespelet tvingar nykken\" in Leiv Heggstad's collection, and two specimens called \"Gaute og Magnild\" and \"Guðmund og Signelita\" in the anthology compiled by Landstad (1853).\n\nThe version most often met in Norwegian songbooks today is Knut Liestøl and Moltke Moe's 32-stanza reconstructed text (1920). A full translation is given in Heidi Støa's paper (2008). It resembles the 22-stanza text printed by Gruntvig (as a Norwegian variant to DgF 40c).\n\nThe Liestøl/Moe ballad begins as follows (the recurring \"burden\" is italicized):\n\nVillemann perceives that his beloved Magnill is weeping as the dice is cast while playing the board game (stanza 2). He makes a series of guesses why she is crying: \"\"Cry you for fields, or cry you for meadows..etc.,\" and she replies she cries for none of these things (3 ~ 6). She cries because she knows she is destined for imminent death: her fair skin lying in the \"darkling mould\" (earth), her yellow hair rotting in \"Vendel's river,\" having fallen from the \"Blide bridge\" like her sisters (7 ~ 9).\n\nThe remainder follows the typical pan-Scandinavian pattern, except for a final conclusion. Thus the hero's promise to fortify bridge with pillars of lead and steel, and men riding alongside her, her protest of futility (10 ~ 15), her horse (shod with horseshoes and nails of red gold) rearing up on hind legs, her fall into the river (16 ~ 18), Villemann's playing golden harp from golden case, his playing mounts with ever more wondrous effects on nature (19 ~ 26). Finally the \"nykkjen\" (nøkken) releases one, then two (of her arms?), and pleads to bring stillness to his waters. But the hero refuses, and \"the shatters against the hard stone\" (\"nykkjen han sprakk i hardan stein\").\n\nThe full text of the version of Liestøl and Moltke Moe's reconstructed text from is as follows:\n\nThe Liestøl/Moe text \"\"Villeman og Magnill\" features only the one burden \"Så liflig leika Villemann for si skjønn jomfru\" (So delightfully Villemann played for his virgin so fair)\", which is echoed by e.g. the Hans Ross versions. Other variants have a single burden though worded differently.\n\nHowever, Espland likes to class \"Villemann og Magnhild\" as a type that features \"interior refrain\" and a \"final burden\" (in italics below):\n\nThe \"interior refrain\" and \"burden\" are repeated in the second and last lines of each quatrain stanza, a common formula found in other ballads. They precisely match the refrains performed by Høye Strand (1891-1972), recorded by . Strand had learned from the ballad-singing tradition of singers who once performed for Jørgen Moe and Sophus Bugge. Here the \"de rone\" or \"rune\" is construed as \"the spell\", or \"the wiles\". Earlier transcribers heard these words as \"dragonerne\" (meaning \"dragoon\" or \"firearm-bearing type of soldier\"), and the contention has been made that this may have been the transmitted form, nonsensical as it appears to be. Still, the exact refrains including the use of \"rune\" are attested elsewhere in much earlier documents, e.g. Bugge's ms. of 1867 and others.\n\nThe scene of \"tavl\" (board game) being played by the two is not omnipresent in all versions. Instead, the playing of the \"gullharp\" by the hero occurs in the version performed by Strand and recorded by Myklebust.\n\nIn some variants, the \"gull\" element is seen in the hero's altered name: Gullmund, Guldmund, Gudmund, etc. The hero could be called Gaute also (which is close to the name of the hero in the Icelandic version). And Villemann may be seen under slightly different spellings: Villemand, Vellemand, Vilemann, even Wallemann.\n\nThe name \"Vendel's river\" (\"Vendels å\") occurs in Liestøl and Moe's version as well as the Gruntvig text, but may be replaced by other river names such as \"Vendings\" in variants. The \"Blide bridge\" that ironically means \"Blithe Bridge\" features in Danish versions as well.\n\nThe analogue in Iceland is known as \"Gautakvæði\" \"Gauti's ballad\", for which Grundtvig and Sigurðsson printed a critical text based on variants A–D (\"Íslenzk fornkvæði\" no. 3).\n\nIn the Icelandic version, the main characters are Gauti, a fine knight, and his wife Magnhild, wearing much gold jewelry and clad in black dress. While they lie in bed together, he asks her, \"What grieves thee, my sweetheart?\" and she answers it is because she will inevitably will be drowned in Skotberg River. He assures her she will not be drowned because he will build an iron bridge over the river. She replies \"Though thou make it as high as a cloud, none can flee one's fate (tr. Kemp in his summary)\" (str. 1–4). After three days of drunken revelry, they ride out to the Skotberg's river (str. 6), and Gauti asks his swain (youth) about what has happened to Magnild, and receives report that just as she reached the midpoint, the iron bridge broke into pieces. 50 men fell in, and no one was paying attention about Magnhild (str. 10). He tells his swain to fetch his harp, and hurls the harp against the floor, breaking twelve strings, and then five more (str. 13). He strums the first tune, and a star is shot into the murky sea. His playing coaxes a bolt out of its lock, a cow from its shed, horse from its stall, a fair hind from the mountain, a ship from the rollers for launching it (\"hlunnr\"), a fair maiden from the greenfield, and finally, wrenches his wife Magnhild onto the white sand upon land (str. 18). She is dead, and with much pain he kisses her, buries her flesh in consecrated ground, and takes strands of her gleaming hair to make into harp strings (str. 19–21). Variant B has an alternate ending, where he kisses her corpse and his heart bursts. In variant D, he kisses her and his heart shatters into three pieces, and three bodies went inside the stone-coffin together: Gauti and his wife and his mother who died of grief.\n\nThe name of the river in the ballad, \"Skotberg River\" (\"Skotbergs á\"), cannot be identified in Iceland's landscape but bears similarity to Skodborg River bordering North and South Jutland in Denmark, though none of the Danish ballad cognates give that river's name.\n\nEnglish translations of this ballad have been published. Retellings include \"Christin's Trouble\" (prose) in Julia Goddard's anthology (1871)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStudies\n"}
{"id": "9780610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9780610", "title": "Indian Ocean Whale Sanctuary", "text": "Indian Ocean Whale Sanctuary\n\nThe Indian Ocean Whale Sanctuary is an area in the Indian Ocean where the International Whaling Commission (IWC) has banned all types of commercial whaling. The IWC has at present designated two such sanctuaries, the other being the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary. Repeated proposals at the IWC for a South Atlantic Sanctuary and a South Pacific Sanctuary have never reached the 75% majority needed to pass.\n\nThe Indian Ocean Sanctuary was established by the IWC in 1979 after being proposed by the tiny island nation of the Seychelles, in its first meeting as an IWC member, partly in order to protect whales in their breeding grounds.\n\nThe status of the Whale Sanctuaries is reviewed by the IWC every 10 years, and the Indian Ocean Sanctuary has so far been reviewed (and extended) three times, in 1989, 1992 and 2002.\n\nThe Indian Ocean Whale Sanctuary extends south to 55°S latitude with a western boundary of 20°E longitude by Africa and an eastern boundary of 130°E longitude by Australia. To the south it borders the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary.\n\n"}
{"id": "53900990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53900990", "title": "La Costa xeric shrublands", "text": "La Costa xeric shrublands\n\nThe La Costa xeric shrublands (NT1309) is an ecoregion in Venezuela that stretches along the Caribbean coast.\nThe dry scrub and savanna has been subject to modification since the 16th century by European colonists who replaced it by a patchwork of farm fields and pasturage. \nLittle of the original habitat remains.\n\nThe La Costa xeric shrublands ecoregion extends along Venezuela's Caribbean coast, covering plains, hills and isolated mountains.\nCaracas, the capital of Venezuela, lies partly in this ecoregion.\nIt reaches from Sucre state in the east to Yaracuy state in the west.\nThe ecoregion includes areas of savanna, dry forest, moist forest, swamp and scrub.\nIt has an area of .\n\nIn the west the shrubland transitions into the Lara-Falcón dry forests ecoregion.\nThe extreme west of the La Costa xeric shrublands merges into the Paraguana xeric scrub just east of Barquisimeto.\nTo the south the La Costa xeric shrublands transitions into the Llanos. \nThere are regions of Cordillera de la Costa montane forests along the Caribbean coastline. \nThe coastal area in the east of the region is covered by Araya and Paria xeric scrub.\nIn the extreme east the ecoregion transitions into Orinoco Delta swamp forests.\n\nThe xeric shrublands are in the Coastal Cordillera geographical region.\nThe shrublands, which blend into the Llanos grasslands to the south, surround the mountains of the Venezuelan Coastal Range.\nElevations rise from sea level to in the upper foothills of the mountains.\nAlong the coast there are sandy beaches, mangroves, lagoons and hilly patches of moist forest.\n\nAverage annual temperature is around .\nAnnual rainfall is .\nAt a sample location at coordinates the Köppen climate classification is \"Aw\": equatorial, winter dry.\nAt this location the mean temperature varies from in July to in April.\nTotal yearly rainfall is about .\nMonthly rainfall varies from in March to in July.\n\nThe ecoregion is in the neotropical realm, in the deserts and xeric shrublands biome.\n\nThe lowest regions from above sea level are semi-arid and hold dense xerophytic scrub vegetation include thorny plants high, mostly from the cactus, \"Fabaceae\" and \"Capparaceae\" families.\nSpecies in the dense thorn forest include \"Bourreria cumanensis\", \"Caesalpinia coriaria\", \"Caesalpinia vesicaria\", \"Cereus hexagonus\", \"Chloroleucon mangense\", \"Coccoloba ramosissima\", \"Cynophalla hastata\", \"Parkinsonia praecox\", \"Pereskia guamacho\", \"Piptadenia flava\", \"Prosopis juliflora\", \"Vachellia macracantha\", \"Vachellia tortuosa\", \"Xylosoma benthamii\" and species from the \"Erythroxylum\", \"Jacquinia\" and \"Mimosa\" genera.\n\nThere are savannas with tall grasses, shrubs and palms throughout the region, with plants such as \"Axonopus aureus\", \"Borreria aristeguietana\", \"Bowdichia virgilioides\", \"Byrsonima crassifolia\", \" Casearia sylvestris\", \"Cochlospermum vitifolium\", \"Copaifera officinalis\", \"Curatella americana\", \"Godmania aesculifolia\", \"Leptocoryphium lanatum\", \"Polycarpaea corymbosa\", \"Stilpnopappus pittieri\", \"Trachypogon plumosus\", \"Vochysia venezolana\" and species of the \"Andropogon\", \"Bulbostylis\", \"Panicum\" and \"Rhynchospora\" genera.\nThe west of the region has herbaceous savannas that include \"Axonopus canescens\", \"Bowdichia virgilioides\", \"Curatella americana\", \"Leptocoryphium lanatum\", \"Trachypogon plumus\" and \"Paspalum\" species.\n\"Borreria aristeguietana\" and \"Stilpnopappus pittieri\" are endemic to the ecoregion.\n\nEndemic mammals found in this and other dry forest ecoregions in Colombia and Venezuela include the Guajira mouse opossum (\"Marmosa xerophila\") and Hummelinck's vesper mouse (\"Calomys hummelincki\").\nEndemic birds include the yellow-shouldered amazon (\"Amazona barbadensis\"), Maracaibo tody-flycatcher (\"Todirostrum viridanum\"), pygmy palm swift (\"Tachornis furcata\"), buffy hummingbird (\"Leucippus fallax\"), chestnut piculet (\"Picumnus cinnamomeus\"), white-whiskered spinetail (\"Synallaxis candei\"), black-backed antshrike (\"Thamnophilus melanonotus\"), slender-billed inezia (\"Inezia tenuirostris\"), Tocuyo sparrow (\"Arremonops tocuyensis\") and vermilion cardinal (\"Cardinalis phoeniceus\").\nEndangered birds include the rusty-flanked crake (\"Laterallus levraudi\"), plain-flanked rail (\"Rallus wetmorei\") and red siskin (\"Spinus cucullatus\").\n\nThe World Wildlife Fund gives the ecoregion the status of \"Critical/Endangered\".\nThere is a large human population that dates back to 16th century colonists from Europe.\nMost of the natural habitat has been destroyed, particularly in the lower areas, replaced by a patchwork of towns, farm fields and pastures.\nA few areas of natural savanna and thorn forest remain.\nThe El Ávila National Park and San Esteban National Park hold small areas of xeric shrubland.\nOther protected areas include the Mochima National Park and the Henri Pittier National Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "2039698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2039698", "title": "Lacus Solitudinis", "text": "Lacus Solitudinis\n\nLacus Solitudinis (Latin for \"Lake of Solitude\") is a small lunar mare on the far side of the Moon. The selenographic coordinates of the lake are 27.8° S, 104.3° E, and it lies within a diameter of 139 km. It forms an arcing feature with the concave side oriented to the northwest. The eastern edge is relatively continuous, while the west is more irregular and disrupted by small craters.\n\nTo the northwest of the northern end is the small crater Bowditch, a lava-flooded feature although it does not appear directly connected to the Lacus Solitudinis. At the western end of the mare, the eroded crater Titius lies to the northwest. To the south of this feature is Parkhurst Y, with Parkhurst itself lying some distance to the southeast.\n"}
{"id": "12106894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12106894", "title": "List of Abuta species", "text": "List of Abuta species\n\nList of Abuta species — in the flowering plant family Menispermaceae.\n\nSpecies include: \n<br>\n\"Note: this list includes synonyms.\"\n"}
{"id": "43594090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43594090", "title": "List of Pelargonium species", "text": "List of Pelargonium species\n\nThe Plant List has 250 accepted species names (including two primary hybrids) and 9 subspecies or varieties for the genus \"Pelargonium\" as of 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "58329521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58329521", "title": "List of glaciers on Thurston Island", "text": "List of glaciers on Thurston Island\n\nThis is a list of glaciers on Thurston Island, an ice-covered, glacially dissected island, long, wide and in area, lying a short way off the northwest end of Ellsworth Land, Antarctica. It is the third largest island of Antarctica, after Alexander Island and Berkner Island. \n"}
{"id": "57268236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57268236", "title": "List of interoceanic canals", "text": "List of interoceanic canals\n\nThe following is a list of interoceanic canals, that is, \"canals\" or \"canal proposals\", which form waterways for traffic to connect one ocean to another.\n\n"}
{"id": "21334764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21334764", "title": "List of national parks of the Philippines", "text": "List of national parks of the Philippines\n\nNational Parks of the Philippines () are places of natural or historical value designated for protection and sustainable utilization by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources under the National Integrated Protected Areas System Act (1992).\n\nIn 2012, there were 240 protected areas in the Philippines, of which 35 have been classified as National Parks. By June 22, 2018, the number of designated national parks in the country has increased to 94.\n\n World Heritage Site or part of a World Heritage Site\n\n"}
{"id": "20057772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20057772", "title": "List of rivers of Spain", "text": "List of rivers of Spain\n\nThis is an incomplete list of rivers that are at least partially in Spain. The rivers are grouped by sea or ocean. The rivers flowing into the sea are sorted along the coast. Rivers flowing into other rivers are listed by the rivers they flow into. The rivers that have their mouths in Portugal are given in italics.\n\nThe list begins in Catalonia at the French border and moves clockwise around the Iberian Peninsula.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16437830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16437830", "title": "Lists of Category 5 hurricanes", "text": "Lists of Category 5 hurricanes\n\nList of Category 5 hurricanes is a series of lists of hurricanes in different ocean basins to attain Category 5 status on the Saffir–Simpson hurricane wind scale.\n"}
{"id": "1599946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599946", "title": "Loco (loa)", "text": "Loco (loa)\n\nLoco (also spelled Loko) is a loa, patron of healers and plants, especially trees in the Vodou religion. He is a racine (root), and a rada loa. Among several other Loa he is linked with the poteau mitan or centrepost in a Vodou peristyle. \n\nHe is the husband of loa Ayizan, and just as she is the archetypal Mambo (priestess), so her husband Loco is considered the first Houngan (priest). As the spiritual parents of the priesthood he and his wife are two of the Loa involved in the kanzo initiation rites in which the Priest/ess to be is given the asson (sacred rattle and tool of the priesthood), and are both powerful guardians of \"reglemen,\" or the correct and appropriate form of Vodoun service. \n\nThis loa is also known by the Haitians Arawak ancestors. He is similar to the Arawak Deity Louquo, a founding ancestor of the Arawak people.\n"}
{"id": "58105950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58105950", "title": "Lower Mississippi water resource region", "text": "Lower Mississippi water resource region\n\nThe Lower Mississippi water resource region is one of 21 major geographic areas, or regions, in the first level of classification used by the United States Geological Survey to divide and sub-divide the United States into successively smaller hydrologic units. These geographic areas contain either the drainage area of a major river, or the combined drainage areas of a series of rivers.\n\nThe Lower Mississippi region, which is listed with a 2-digit hydrologic unit code (HUC) of 08, has an approximate size of , and consists of 9 subregions, which are listed with the 4-digit HUCs 0801 through 0809.\n\nThis region includes the drainage within the United States of: (a) the Mississippi River below its confluence with the Ohio River, excluding the Arkansas, Red, and White River basins above the points of highest backwater effect of the Mississippi River in those basins; and (b) coastal streams that ultimately discharge into the Gulf of Mexico from the Pearl River Basin boundary to the Sabine River and Sabine Lake drainage boundary. Includes parts of Arkansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, and Tennessee.\n\n"}
{"id": "2148144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2148144", "title": "Monatomic ion", "text": "Monatomic ion\n\nA monatomic ion is an ion consisting of exactly one atom. If an ion contains more than one atom, even if these are of the same element, it is called a polyatomic ion. For example, calcium carbonate consists of the monatomic ion Ca and the polyatomic ion CO.\n\nA type I binary ionic compound contains a metal (cation) that forms only one type of ion. A type II ionic compound contains a metal that forms more than one type of ion, i.e., ions with different charges.\n\n"}
{"id": "14909014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14909014", "title": "Mount Honaz", "text": "Mount Honaz\n\nMount Honaz (), is a mountain and a national park, located in southwestern Turkey, east of the province seat of Denizli. On April 21, 1995, it was proclaimed as a protected area. Honaz, Denizli's depending township that carries the same name as the mountain, is situated on the mountain slopes. At , it is the highest mountain in Turkey's Aegean Region.\n\nThe mountain is covered with forests, which are particularly dense in its northern side. Ice and snow are omnipresent around its summit. There has been a project for establishing a ski resort on the mountain a few years ago when the province's marking governor, the late Recep Yazıcıoğlu was in office. However, these plans lie idle for the moment despite the suitable conditions the mountain offers for winter sports.\n\n"}
{"id": "25585015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25585015", "title": "North American Arctic", "text": "North American Arctic\n\nThe North American Arctic comprises the northern portions of Alaska (USA), Northern Canada and Greenland. Major bodies of water include the Arctic Ocean, Hudson Bay, the Gulf of Alaska and North Atlantic Ocean. The western limit is the Seward Peninsula and the Bering Strait. The southern limit is the Arctic Circle latitude of 66° 33’N, which is the approximate limit of the midnight sun and the polar night.\n\nThe Arctic region is defined by environmental limits where the average temperature for the warmest month (July) is below . The northernmost tree line roughly follows the isotherm at the boundary of this region. The area has tundra and polar vegetation.\n\nFrom west to east;\n"}
{"id": "2014309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014309", "title": "Office of Gas and Electricity Markets", "text": "Office of Gas and Electricity Markets\n\nThe Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem), supporting the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority (GEMA), is the government regulator for the electricity and downstream natural gas markets in Great Britain. It was formed by the merger of the Office of Electricity Regulation (OFFER) and Office of Gas Supply (Ofgas).\n\nThe authority's powers and duties are largely provided for in statute (such as the Gas Act 1986, the Electricity Act 1989, the Utilities Act 2000, the Competition Act 1998, the Enterprise Act 2002 and the Energy Act 2004, the Energy Act 2008 and the Energy Act 2010) as well as arising from directly effective European Union legislation. Duties and functions concerning gas are set out in the Gas Act and those relating to electricity are set out in the Electricity Act.\n\nIts primary duty is to protect the interests of consumers, where possible by promoting competition.\nThe Authority‘s main objective is to protect existing and future consumers' interests in relation to gas conveyed through pipes and electricity conveyed by distribution or transmission systems. Consumers' interests are their interests taken as a whole, including their interests in the reduction of greenhouse gases and in the security of the supply of gas and electricity to them. Since 2010 the Authority has imposed nearly £100 million in fines and redress levies against energy suppliers, including a £12 million redress levy on E.ON in May 2014, and a £1 million redress levy on British Gas in July 2014.\n\nThe Gas and Electricity Markets Authority is governed by the Chairman David Gray, executive members as well as non-executive members.\n\nDermot Nolan was appointed Chief Executive of Ofgem in 2014.\n\nOfgem is divided into Ofgem (Smarter Grids & Governance, Markets, Sustainable Development and Group Finance Director) and Ofgem E-Serve containing Group Functions: Environmental Programmes, Operations/HR, Information Management and Technology, Finance and Risk Management, and Commercial: Offshore, Legal, Smart Metering Delivery, New Schemes Development.\n\nThe liberalisation and privatisation of the energy markets in the United Kingdom began with the Margaret Thatcher Government in the 1980s (often called the Thatcher-Lawson agenda, due to the key role of Nigel Lawson in the Thatcher government cabinet). Aspects of the Ofgem model have been adopted by EU legislation.\n\nStarting in the 1990s, the supply of electricity and gas to end consumers in the UK has been unbundled from the rest of the industry. At the time of privatisation, British Gas and one regional public electricity supplier (PES) held a monopoly on supplying all domestic gas and electricity consumers respectively in Great Britain. Between 1996 and 1999, domestic energy consumers gradually had to choose their supplier, and finally in May 1998, the domestic gas market was fully opened to competition, closely followed by the domestic electricity market in May 1999.\n\nBefore there was competition on domestic markets, Ofgem set price controls fixing maximum price that the monopoly suppliers could charge domestic customers. These price controls remained in place when markets started to get liberalised, and were then gradually removed between 2000 and 2002. Ofgem’s decision to remove price controls was based on the assessment that competition was developing well at that time and that the Competition Act 1998, being effective since March 2000, would deter companies from the abuse of market power, and provide Ofgem with sufficient power to tackle any abuse. Moreover, consumer surveys showed good awareness of the ability to switch, high and rising switching rates away from the former monopoly supplies, and substantial and continuing falls in their market shares.\n\nIn 2000, the Social Action Strategy review group was established and the Competition Act came into force. In 2003 the Wholesale Gas Probe was published. Two years after the removal of the last price controls, in April 2004, Ofgem published a major review of the state of competition in the domestic energy supply markets, concluding that supply competition had delivered substantial benefits for all consumers and that the markets were competitive, though not yet mature. In 2005 there was the EU Energy Sector Enquiry, as well as the Supply Licence Review. The Energy Supply Ombudsman was then established in 2006 and in 2008 the Energy Supply Probe was published.\n\nAgainst the background of unprecedented increases in world fuel prices leading to record increases in wholesale and retail gas and electricity prices so that a typical household's energy bills more than doubled since early 2004 Ofgem undertook the Energy Supply Probe. The numbers of consumers in debt to their energy suppliers, average debt levels and disconnection rates were all rising. These energy price rises came at a time when household budgets were under pressure from the rising cost of food, petrol, mortgages and other essentials. Vulnerable consumers and those in fuel poverty were particularly affected. The Energy Supply Probe published the findings on the operation of the UK retail energy markets and set out a package of measures to tackle the issues raised.\n\nIn June 2014 Ofgem announced a Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) investigation into the trading practices and competitiveness of the country's major energy companies: Centrica, SSE plc, RWE npower, E.ON, Scottish Power and EDF Energy. The investigation, which took two years, followed a referral by Ofgem to the competition regulator. \"There is near-unanimous support for a referral and the CMA investigation offers an important opportunity to clear the air. This will help rebuild consumer trust and confidence in the energy market as well as provide the certainty investors have called for,\" Ofgem CEO Dermot Nolan in announcing the investigation. In August 2016 Ofgem said that it would implement the CMA's recommendation that suppliers should be required to provide the details of customers who have been on expensive tariffs for three years or more to rival suppliers. Ofgem also said that it would impose an interim price cap on customers using pre-payment meters.\n\nIn September 2018, the Guardian published a report claiming that two OFGEm experts had been independently threatened with criminal sanctions if they publicly revealed information. OFGEM allegedly invoked section 105 of the Utilities Act 2000, designed to protect national security, relating to concerns about energy meters and renewable heat incentive projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19653842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19653842", "title": "Organism", "text": "Organism\n\nIn biology, an organism (from Greek: ὀργανισμός, \"organismos\") is any individual entity that exhibits the properties of life. It is a synonym for \"life form\".\n\nOrganisms are classified by taxonomy into specified groups such as the multicellular animals, plants, and fungi; or unicellular microorganisms such as a protists, bacteria, and archaea. All types of organisms are capable of reproduction, growth and development, maintenance, and some degree of response to stimuli. Humans are multicellular animals composed of many trillions of cells which differentiate during development into specialized tissues and organs.\n\nAn organism may be either a prokaryote or a eukaryote. Prokaryotes are represented by two separate domains—bacteria and archaea. Eukaryotic organisms are characterized by the presence of a membrane-bound cell nucleus and contain additional membrane-bound compartments called organelles (such as mitochondria in animals and plants and plastids in plants and algae, all generally considered to be derived from endosymbiotic bacteria). Fungi, animals and plants are examples of kingdoms of organisms within the eukaryotes.\n\nEstimates on the number of Earth's current species range from 10 million to 14 million, of which only about 1.2 million have been documented. More than 99% of all species, amounting to over five billion species, that ever lived are estimated to be extinct. In 2016, a set of 355 genes from the last universal common ancestor (LUCA) of all organisms was identified.\n\nThe term \"organism\" (from Greek ὀργανισμός, \"organismos\", from ὄργανον, \"organon\", i.e. \"instrument, implement, tool, organ of sense or apprehension\") first appeared in the English language in 1703 and took on its current definition by 1834 (Oxford English Dictionary). It is directly related to the term \"organization\". There is a long tradition of defining organisms as self-organizing beings, going back at least to Immanuel Kant's 1790 \"Critique of Judgment\".\n\nAn organism may be defined as an assembly of molecules functioning as a more or less stable whole that exhibits the properties of life. Dictionary definitions can be broad, using phrases such as \"any living structure, such as a plant, animal, fungus or bacterium, capable of growth and reproduction\". Many definitions exclude viruses and possible man-made non-organic life forms, as viruses are dependent on the biochemical machinery of a host cell for reproduction. A superorganism is an organism consisting of many individuals working together as a single functional or social unit.\n\nThere has been controversy about the best way to define the organism and indeed about whether or not such a definition is necessary. Several contributions are responses to the suggestion that the category of \"organism\" may well not be adequate in biology.\n\nViruses are not typically considered to be organisms because they are incapable of autonomous reproduction, growth or metabolism. This controversy is problematic because some cellular organisms are also incapable of independent survival (but are capable of independent metabolism and procreation) and live as obligatory intracellular parasites. Although viruses have a few enzymes and molecules characteristic of living organisms, they have no metabolism of their own; they cannot synthesize and organize the organic compounds from which they are formed. Naturally, this rules out autonomous reproduction: they can only be passively replicated by the machinery of the host cell. In this sense, they are similar to inanimate matter. While viruses sustain no independent metabolism, and thus are usually not classified as organisms, they do have their own genes, and they do evolve by mechanisms similar to the evolutionary mechanisms of organisms.\n\nThe most common argument in support of viruses as living organisms is their ability to undergo evolution and replicate through self-assembly. Some scientists argue that viruses neither evolve, nor self- reproduce. In fact, viruses are evolved by their host cells, meaning that there was co-evolution of viruses and host cells. If host cells did not exist, viral evolution would be impossible. This is not true for cells. If viruses did not exist, the direction of cellular evolution could be different, but cells would nevertheless be able to evolve. As for the reproduction, viruses totally rely on hosts' machinery to replicate. The discovery of viral megagenomes with genes coding for energy metabolism and protein synthesis fueled the debate about whether viruses belong in the tree of life. The presence of these genes suggested that viruses were once able to metabolize. However, it was found later that the genes coding for energy and protein metabolism have a cellular origin. Most likely, these genes were acquired through horizontal gene transfer from viral hosts.\n\nOrganisms are complex chemical systems, organized in ways that promote reproduction and some measure of sustainability or survival. The same laws that govern non-living chemistry govern the chemical processes of life. It is generally the phenomena of entire organisms that determine their fitness to an environment and therefore the survivability of their DNA-based genes.\n\nOrganisms clearly owe their origin, metabolism, and many other internal functions to chemical phenomena, especially the chemistry of large organic molecules. Organisms are complex systems of chemical compounds that, through interaction and environment, play a wide variety of roles.\n\nOrganisms are semi-closed chemical systems. Although they are individual units of life (as the definition requires), they are not closed to the environment around them. To operate they constantly take in and release energy. Autotrophs produce usable energy (in the form of organic compounds) using light from the sun or inorganic compounds while heterotrophs take in organic compounds from the environment.\n\nThe primary chemical element in these compounds is carbon. The chemical properties of this element such as its great affinity for bonding with other small atoms, including other carbon atoms, and its small size making it capable of forming multiple bonds, make it ideal as the basis of organic life. It is able to form small three-atom compounds (such as carbon dioxide), as well as large chains of many thousands of atoms that can store data (nucleic acids), hold cells together, and transmit information (protein).\n\nCompounds that make up organisms may be divided into macromolecules and other, smaller molecules. The four groups of macromolecule are nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates and lipids. Nucleic acids (specifically deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA) store genetic data as a sequence of nucleotides. The particular sequence of the four different types of nucleotides (adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine) dictate many characteristics that constitute the organism. The sequence is divided up into codons, each of which is a particular sequence of three nucleotides and corresponds to a particular amino acid. Thus a sequence of DNA codes for a particular protein that, due to the chemical properties of the amino acids it is made from, folds in a particular manner and so performs a particular function.\n\nThese protein functions have been recognized:\n\nA bilayer of phospholipids makes up the membrane of cells that constitutes a barrier, containing everything within the cell and preventing compounds from freely passing into, and out of, the cell. Due to the selective permeability of the phospholipid membrane only specific compounds can pass through it. In some multicellular organisms they serve as a storage of energy and mediate communication between cells. Carbohydrates are more easily broken down than lipids and yield more energy to compare to lipids and proteins. In fact, carbohydrates are the number one source of energy for all living organisms.\n\nAll organisms consist of structural units called cells; some contain a single cell (unicellular) and others contain many units (multicellular). Multicellular organisms are able to specialize cells to perform specific functions. A group of such cells is a tissue, and in animals these occur as four basic types, namely epithelium, nervous tissue, muscle tissue, and connective tissue. Several types of tissue work together in the form of an organ to produce a particular function (such as the pumping of the blood by the heart, or as a barrier to the environment as the skin). This pattern continues to a higher level with several organs functioning as an organ system such as the reproductive system, and digestive system. Many multicellular organisms consist of several organ systems, which coordinate to allow for life.\n\nThe cell theory, first developed in 1839 by Schleiden and Schwann, states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells; all cells come from preexisting cells; and cells contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells.\n\nThere are two types of cells, eukaryotic and prokaryotic. Prokaryotic cells are usually singletons, while eukaryotic cells are usually found in multicellular organisms. Prokaryotic cells lack a nuclear membrane so DNA is unbound within the cell; eukaryotic cells have nuclear membranes.\n\nAll cells, whether prokaryotic or eukaryotic, have a membrane, which envelops the cell, separates its interior from its environment, regulates what moves in and out, and maintains the electric potential of the cell. Inside the membrane, a salty cytoplasm takes up most of the cell volume. All cells possess DNA, the hereditary material of genes, and RNA, containing the information necessary to build various proteins such as enzymes, the cell's primary machinery. There are also other kinds of biomolecules in cells.\n\nAll cells share several similar characteristics of:\n\nThe last universal common ancestor (LUCA) is the most recent organism from which all organisms now living on Earth descend. Thus it is the most recent common ancestor of all current life on Earth. The LUCA is estimated to have lived some 3.5 to 3.8 billion years ago (sometime in the Paleoarchean era). The earliest evidence for life on Earth is graphite found to be biogenic in 3.7 billion-year-old metasedimentary rocks discovered in Western Greenland and microbial mat fossils found in 3.48 billion-year-old sandstone discovered in Western Australia. Although more than 99 percent of all species that ever lived on the planet are estimated to be extinct, there are currently 10–14 million species of life on Earth.\n\nInformation about the early development of life includes input from many different fields, including geology and planetary science. These sciences provide information about the history of the Earth and the changes produced by life. However, a great deal of information about the early Earth has been destroyed by geological processes over the course of time.\n\nAll organisms are descended from a common ancestor or ancestral gene pool. Evidence for common descent may be found in traits shared between all living organisms. In Darwin's day, the evidence of shared traits was based solely on visible observation of morphologic similarities, such as the fact that all birds have wings, even those that do not fly.\n\nThere is strong evidence from genetics that all organisms have a common ancestor. For example, every living cell makes use of nucleic acids as its genetic material, and uses the same twenty amino acids as the building blocks for proteins. All organisms use the same genetic code (with some extremely rare and minor deviations) to translate nucleic acid sequences into proteins. The universality of these traits strongly suggests common ancestry, because the selection of many of these traits seems arbitrary. Horizontal gene transfer makes it more difficult to study the last universal ancestor. However, the universal use of the same genetic code, same nucleotides, and same amino acids makes the existence of such an ancestor overwhelmingly likely.\n\nThe most commonly accepted location of the root of the tree of life is between a monophyletic domain Bacteria and a clade formed by Archaea and Eukaryota of what is referred to as the \"traditional tree of life\" based on several molecular studies. A very small minority of studies have concluded differently, namely that the root is in the domain Bacteria, either in the phylum Firmicutes or that the phylum Chloroflexi is basal to a clade with Archaea and Eukaryotes and the rest of Bacteria as proposed by Thomas Cavalier-Smith.\n\nResearch published in 2016, by William F. Martin, by genetically analyzing 6.1 million protein coding genes from sequenced prokaryotic genomes of various phylogenetic trees, identified 355 protein clusters from amongst 286,514 protein clusters that were probably common to the LUCA. The results \"depict LUCA as anaerobic, CO-fixing, H-dependent with a Wood–Ljungdahl pathway (the reductive acetyl-coenzyme A pathway), N-fixing and thermophilic. LUCA's biochemistry was replete with FeS clusters and radical reaction mechanisms. Its cofactors reveal dependence upon transition metals, flavins, S-adenosyl methionine, coenzyme A, ferredoxin, molybdopterin, corrins and selenium. Its genetic code required nucleoside modifications and S-adenosylmethionine-dependent methylations.\" The results depict methanogenic clostria as a basal clade in the 355 lineages examined, and suggest that the LUCA inhabited an anaerobic hydrothermal vent setting in a geochemically active environment rich in H, CO, and iron. However, the identification of these genes as being present in LUCA was criticized, suggesting that many of the proteins assumed to be present in LUCA represent later horizontal gene transfers between archaea and bacteria.\n\nSexual reproduction is widespread among current eukaryotes, and was likely present in the last common ancestor. This is suggested by the finding of a core set of genes for meiosis in the descendants of lineages that diverged early from the eukaryotic evolutionary tree. and Malik et al. It is further supported by evidence that eukaryotes previously regarded as \"ancient asexuals\", such as \"Amoeba\", were likely sexual in the past, and that most present day asexual amoeboid lineages likely arose recently and independently.\n\nIn prokaryotes, natural bacterial transformation involves the transfer of DNA from one bacterium to another and integration of the donor DNA into the recipient chromosome by recombination. Natural bacterial transformation is considered to be a primitive sexual process and occurs in both bacteria and archaea, although it has been studied mainly in bacteria. Transformation is clearly a bacterial adaptation and not an accidental occurrence, because it depends on numerous gene products that specifically interact with each other to enter a state of natural competence to perform this complex process. Transformation is a common mode of DNA transfer among prokaryotes.\n\nThe ancestry of living organisms has traditionally been reconstructed from morphology, but is increasingly supplemented with phylogenetics—the reconstruction of phylogenies by the comparison of genetic (DNA) sequence.\nSequence comparisons suggest recent horizontal transfer of many genes among diverse species including across the boundaries of phylogenetic \"domains\". Thus determining the phylogenetic history of a species can not be done conclusively by determining evolutionary trees for single genes.\n\nBiologist Peter Gogarten suggests \"the original metaphor of a tree no longer fits the data from recent genome research\", therefore \"biologists (should) use the metaphor of a mosaic to describe the different histories combined in individual genomes and use (the) metaphor of a net to visualize the rich exchange and cooperative effects of HGT among microbes.\"\n\nModern biotechnology is challenging traditional concepts of organism and species. Cloning is the process of creating a new multicellular organism, genetically identical to another, with the potential of creating entirely new species of organisms. Cloning is the subject of much ethical debate.\n\nIn 2008, the J. Craig Venter Institute assembled a synthetic bacterial genome, \"Mycoplasma genitalium\", by using recombination in yeast of 25 overlapping DNA fragments in a single step. \"The use of yeast recombination greatly simplifies the assembly of large DNA molecules from both synthetic and natural fragments.\" Other companies, such as Synthetic Genomics, have already been formed to take advantage of the many commercial uses of custom designed genomes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43223760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43223760", "title": "Pleß (mountain)", "text": "Pleß (mountain)\n\nThe Pleß is a mountain, , in the county of Schmalkalden-Meiningen in the Salzungen Werra Highland in the German state of Thuringia.\n\nThe Pleß is generally seen as the northeasternmost mountain of the Anterior Rhön,but is counted by the \"Bundesanstalt für Landeskunde\" as part of the adjacent natural region of the Salzung Werra Upland to the northeast. The Thurigian State Office for Geology and the Environment (\"Thüringer Landesanstalt für Umwelt und Geologie\") sees it as part of the Rhön. Geologically it was clearly formed as part of the volcanism of the Rhön, but is surrounded by the bunter sandstone of the Werra Upland.\n\nAmong the nearest municipalities are Bad Salzungen to the north. Breitungen to the east-northeast, the nearby Rosa to the south and Urnshausen to the southwest. Seen from the Thuringian Forest which is somewhat further east it is on the left (east-southeast) next to the mountains of Baier, Dietrichsberg (Dietrich) and Öchsenberg (Öchsen).\n\nThe Pleß is of basaltic volcanic origin.\n\nAt the summit of the Pleß is a viewing tower from which the mountains of the Thuringian Forest and the Rhön, the valley of the Werra and the castle of Wartburg can be seen.\n\nThe original name of the Pleß was the \"Bleßberg\". However, because there were two Bleßbergs in the Duchy of Saxe-Meiningen, an \"upland\" Bleßberg in the vicinity of Eisfeld and this \"lowland\" one - which often led to confusion – the name was changed at the behest of Duke George II at the end of the 19th century to Pleßberg. A short time later, the suffix \"-berg\" was dropped.\n\nAs early as the 19th century the Pleßhaus (north of the summit) and a viewing tower were built. In East Germany the mountain was declared an out-of-bounds area as part of the Bad Salzungen Training Area which extended mainly to the north of the mountain. The Pleßhaus was used as accommodation for the soldiers. Later, a barracks was built on the Pleß, but it stood empty and slowly decayed. Even the viewing tower was demolished.\n\nKeen locals began the preservation of the Pleßhaus. The new Pleßhaus was rebuilt at the Jägerstein. The inn there bears the name \"Seeblick\" today.\n\nFollowing the gradually withdrawal of the \"Bundeswehr\" during the 1990s, it became possible to walk in the area again. In March 1996 the municipality of Breitungen purchased the area of the Pleßberg and has since had its own \"Hausberg\". In the wake of that, some time later a new observation tower was built on the Pleß.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20455598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20455598", "title": "Polymer Battery Experiment", "text": "Polymer Battery Experiment\n\nThe Polymer Battery Experiment (PBEX) demonstrates the charging and discharging characteristics of polymer batteries in the space environment. PBEX validates use of lightweight, flexible battery technology to decrease cost and weight for future military and commercial space systems. PBEX was developed by Johns Hopkins University and is one of four On Orbit Mission Control (OOMC) packages on PicoSat 9:\n\n\n\nBatteries in space\n\n"}
{"id": "7236084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7236084", "title": "Pulastya", "text": "Pulastya\n\nPulastya (Sanskrit: पुलस्त्य, Sinhala: පුලස්ති, Thai: ท้าวจตุรพักตร์) was one of the ten Prajapati or mind-born sons of Brahma, and one of the Saptarishis (Seven Great Sages Rishi) in the first Manvantara.\n\nHe was the medium through which some of the Puranas were communicated to the mankind. He received the Vishnu Purana from Brahma and communicated it to Parashara, who made it known to mankind. \n\nHe was father of Vishrava Muni who was the father of Kubera and Ravana, and all the Yaksahas are supposed to have sprung from him. Pulastya was married to one of Rishi Kardam's nine daughters named Havirbhoo. Pulastya Rishi had two sons - [Agastya] and [Vishrava]. Vishrava had two wives: one was Kekasi who gave birth to Ravana, Shurpanakha, Kumbhakarna, and Vibhishana; and another was Ilavida and had a son named Kubera.\n\nCertain sources claim that the famous granite statue of a king in Polonnaruwa, Sri Lanka, which was first thought to be of King Parakramabahu the Great, might actually be the Pulastya Rishi. This idea was later proven to be false by Prof. Senarath Paranawithana. Apart from this, no other statues, carvings, paintings or friezes of Pulastya Rishi have been found on the island.\n\n"}
{"id": "1368280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1368280", "title": "Robin Knox-Johnston", "text": "Robin Knox-Johnston\n\nSir William Robert Patrick \"Robin\" Knox-Johnston (born 17 March 1939) is a British sailor. In 1969, he became the first person to perform a single-handed non-stop circumnavigation of the globe and was the second winner of the Jules Verne Trophy, together with Sir Peter Blake.\n\nFor this he was awarded with Blake the ISAF Yachtsman of the Year award. In 2007, he became, at 67, the oldest yachtsman to complete a round the world solo voyage in the Velux 5 Oceans Race.\n\nKnox-Johnston was born in Putney in London and was educated at the Berkhamsted boys' school. From 1957 to 1965, he served in the Merchant Navy and the Royal Naval Reserve. In 1965, he sailed his William Atkins design ketch \"Suhaili\" from Bombay to England. Her design is based on the Norwegian sailing lifeboat designs of Colin Archer.\n\nDue to a lack of money he had to interrupt his voyage for work in South Africa and was only able to complete it in 1967. In 1968, he was one of nine sailors who attempted to achieve the first solo non-stop circumnavigation of the world in the \"Sunday Times\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Golden Globe race. He was the third sailor to start the race, and the only one to complete the voyage.\n\nIn 1962 he married Suzanne (Sue), whom he had known from the age of eight; they had one daughter, Sara, who was born in Bombay whilst he was at sea. His wife left him when he proposed taking her and the child back to England in his new boat \"Suhaili\", and they were divorced in 1967. However, in 1972 they remarried and now have five grandchildren, Florence, Oscar, Xavier, Ralph and Valentine. She died in 2003.\n\nOn 14 June 1968 Robin Knox-Johnston left Falmouth in his 32-foot (9.8-metre) boat \"Suhaili\", one of the smallest boats to enter the Sunday Times Golden Globe Race. Despite losing his self-steering gear off Australia, he rounded Cape Horn on 17 January 1969, 20 days before his closest competitor Bernard Moitessier. Moitessier had sailed from Plymouth more than two months after Knox-Johnston, but he subsequently abandoned the race and instead sailed on to Tahiti. The other seven competitors dropped out at various stages, leaving Knox-Johnston to win the race and become officially the first person to circumnavigate the globe non-stop and single-handed on 22 April 1969, the day he returned to Falmouth. Knox-Johnston donated his prize money for fastest competitor, a sum of £5,000, to the family of Donald Crowhurst, who committed suicide after attempting to fake a round the world voyage.\n\nIn recognition of his achievement, he was created a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE).\n\nIn 1970 (with Leslie Williams) and in 1974 (with Gerry Boxall), Knox-Johnston won the two-handed Round Britain Race. Knox-Johnston, Williams and their crew, which included Peter Blake, took line honours of the 1971 Cape Town to Rio Race. Williams and Knox-Johnston jointly skippered (with Blake a crew member again) maxi yacht Heath's Condor in the 1977 Whitbread Round the World Race. They took the line honours in the second and fourth leg, the ones which Knox-Johnston skippered.\n\nKnox-Johnston and Blake (who acted as co-skippers) won the Jules Verne Trophy for the fastest circumnavigation in 1994. Their time was 74 days 22 hours 18 minutes and 22 seconds. It was their second attempt to win this prize after their first one in 1992 had to be aborted when their catamaran \"Enza\" hit an object which tore a hole in the starboard hull.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2001, Knox-Johnston was president of the Sail Training Association. During his tenure the money was collected to replace the STA’s vessels \"Sir Winston Churchill\" and \"Malcolm Miller\" with the new, larger brigs \"Prince William\" and \"Stavros S. Niarchos\". He was trustee of the National Maritime Museum at Greenwich from 1992 to 2002 and still is trustee of the National Maritime Museum – Cornwall at Falmouth, where \"Suhaili\" is berthed today. The yacht has been refitted and took part in the Round the Island Race in June 2005.\n\nHe was created a knight bachelor in 1995.\n\nIn 1996, Knox-Johnston established the first Clipper Round the World Yacht Race and has since worked with the Clipper Ventures company as chairman to progress the race to higher levels every year. It is perhaps his greatest achievement to have introduced so many people to competitive sailing via their involvement in Clipper Ventures.\n\nHe completed his second solo circumnavigation of the world in the yacht \"Saga Insurance \"on 4 May 2007, finishing in fourth place in the Velux 5 Oceans Race. At 68 he was the oldest competitor in the race.\n\nIn late 2008 and early 2009, Knox-Johnston took part in a BBC programme called \"Top Dogs: Adventures in War, Sea and Ice\". The programme saw him unite with fellow British legends Sir Ranulph Fiennes, the adventurer, and John Simpson, the BBC world affairs editor. The team went on three trips, each experiencing each other's adventure field. The first episode, aired on 27 March 2009, saw Knox-Johnston, Fiennes and Simpson go on a potentially very dangerous news-gathering trip to Afghanistan. The team reported from the legendary Khyber Pass and infamous Tora Bora mountain complex. The three also undertook a voyage around Cape Horn and an expedition hauling sledges across the deep-frozen Frobisher Bay in the far north of Canada.\n\nHaving served two years as president of The Cruising Association, Knox-Johnston is now the association's patron. He is also a past-president of the Little Ship Club.\n\nIn November 2014, Knox-Johnston, at age 75, finished the solo transatlantic race the Route du Rhum in third place in the Rhum class. He crossed the finish line on his Open 60 Grey Power at Pointe à Pitre at 16:52 hours local time/20:52 hours GMT after 20 days, 7 hours, 52 minutes and 22 seconds at sea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166014", "title": "Surface pressure", "text": "Surface pressure\n\nIn atmospheric science, surface pressure is the atmospheric pressure at a location on Earth's surface. It is directly proportional to the mass of air over that location.\n\nFor numerical reasons, atmospheric models such as general circulation models (GCMs) usually predict the nondimensional \"logarithm of surface pressure\".\n\nThe average value of surface pressure on Earth is 985hPa. This is in contrast to mean sea-level pressure, which involves the extrapolation of pressure to sea-level for locations above or below sea-level. The average pressure at mean sea-level (MSL) in the International Standard Atmosphere (ISA) is 1013.25hPa, or 1 atmosphere (Atm), or 29.92 inches of mercury. \n\nPressure (P), mass (m), and the acceleration due to gravity (g), are related by P = F/A = (m*g)/A, where A is surface area. Atmospheric pressure is thus proportional to the weight per unit area of the atmospheric mass above that location.\n"}
{"id": "2139882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139882", "title": "Water Communion", "text": "Water Communion\n\nThe Water Communion (Water Ritual) is a ritual service common in Unitarian Universalist congregations. It is usually held in the fall.\n\nThe first Water Ritual was held at the November 1980 Women and Religion Continental Convocation of Unitarian Universalists in East Lansing, Michigan. Created by activist Carolyn McDade and UU leader Lucile Schuck Longview \"as a way for women who lived far apart to connect the work each was doing locally to the whole\", it has come to be used as an ingathering/homecoming ritual for UU congregations.\n\nDue to the nature of Unitarian Universalism, traditions vary from one congregation to another; however, most Water Communions follow the same general idea. Throughout the year, members of the congregation collect small amounts of water that have meaning for them, either from a special location (e.g., the family home, an ocean or river, memento of a trip) or a special occasion (first rain after a dry spell). At the service, the samples of water are placed in a single bowl so they can merge. Some of the water is often saved, sterilized, and then used for ceremonial purposes at other times of the year; the rest is returned to the world. \"Returning Water to the Earth\"\n\nThe symbolism, like that of the comparable Flower Communion, can be interpreted in various ways. The classic life-related symbolism of water is apparent. The rejoining of many waters can also symbolize the rejoining of the congregation after summer travels. \n\nMcDade and Longview chose this way to honor the \"journeys\" of women, and to represent the way women both contribute to and draw from each other's strength, working both individually and together, to bring change.\n\n"}
{"id": "1240883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1240883", "title": "Zari", "text": "Zari\n\nZari (or Jari) is an even thread traditionally made of fine gold or silver used in traditional Indian, and Pakistani garments, especially as brocade in saris etc. This thread is woven into fabrics, primarily made of silk to create intricate patterns. It is believed this tradition started during the Mughal era and the Surat pot being linked to the Haj pilgrims and Indians was a major factor for introducing this craft in India. \nDuring the Vedic ages, zari was associated with the grand attired of Gods, kings and literary figures. Today, in most fabrics, zari is not made of real gold and silver, but has cotton or polyester yarn at its core, wrapped by golden/silver metallic yarn.\n\nZari is the main material in most silk sarees and gharara. It is also used in other garments made of silk, like skirts, tops and veshtis.\n\nPersian is where the word originated.\n\nZari is basically a brocade of tinsel thread meant for weaving and embroidery. It is manufactured by winding or wrapping (covering) a flattened metallic strip made from pure gold, silver or slitted metallised polyester film, on a core yarn, usually of pure silk, viscose, cotton, nylon, polyester, P.P., mono/multi filament, wire, etc. Nowadays, it can broadly be divided into three types. Real zari, imitation zari, and metallic zari.\n\nReal Zari is made from fine silver or gold thread is drawn from silver or gold alloys, which is flattened by passing it under through equal pressure rotating rollers. The flattened silver threads are wound on the base yarn that is usually made of silk. These spools with silk and silver threads are further flattened for electroplating. The threads are then plated with gold by the process of electroplating. The lustre of the gilded threads is further increased by passing them through a brightener. These threads are then wound on a reel.\n\nIn ancient times, when precious metals were cheaply and easily available, only real zari threads were produced. Due to industrial revolution and invention of electroplating process, imitation techniques came into existence to cut the cost of precious metals. As copper is the most malleable and ductile metal after gold and silver, silver electroplated copper wire replaced pure silver. Various modern colours and chemicals are used to create/impart a golden hue instead of pure gold. The precious metals and copper too became dearer due to huge demand in various modern industries. Thus, a cheap and durable alternative was invented with non-tarnishing properties. Metallic zari came into vogue replacing traditional metals like gold, silver & copper. This non-genuine modern zari is light in weight & more durable than earlier editions. Also, it has the sought after properties of resistance to tarnishing and knotting.\n\nImitation zari is made when copper wires are drawn from copper alloys. It then undergoes a similar process, except in this case, they are electroplated with silver and then wound around the base yarn, and reeled. This type of zari is less expensive than pure zari, as silver electroplated copper is more economical.\n\nMetallic zari is a modernized version of zari and it replaces traditional metals like gold, silver and copper. It is resistant, durable and light in weight. It is non-tarnishing and maintains its lustre for a considerable period of time.\n\nZari is used in various forms such as Zardozi, Kataoki Bel, Mukaish, Tilla or Marori Work, Gota Work, Kinari Work\n\nSurat in the state of Gujarat on the west coast of India is the world's largest producer of all types of zari namely threads, cantile, laces, ribbons, borders, trims, fringes, edges, cordonettes, cords, etc. The art of zari making has been inherited from father to son for many centuries. It is recognised as one of the ancient handicrafts by the government of India. Women from different communities & artisans produce zari and made-ups for weaving, embroidery, crocheting, braiding, etc.\n\n"}
