{"id": "7044468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7044468", "title": "2003 United States–British–Spanish Draft Resolution on Iraq", "text": "2003 United States–British–Spanish Draft Resolution on Iraq\n\nThe 2003 United States–British–Spanish Draft Resolution on Iraq was, according to Ambassador John Negroponte, \"a resolution to have the Council decide that Iraq is not complying, is out of compliance, with Resolution 1441\". Initially introduced on February 24, 2003 and amended on March 7, 2003, the draft set a March 17 deadline for Iraq to demonstrate \"full, unconditional, immediate and active cooperation in accordance with its disarmament obligations.\" The draft was based on information from the iraqi defector \"Curveball,\" who claimed Saddam Hussein was in possession of weapons of mass destruction, which Curveball later admitted was untrue. The widely discussed UN resolution was not brought up for formal vote after it became clear that it would not have passed due to opposition from France, Russia, and China. The United States invaded Iraq without UN support on March 20, 2003, initiating the Iraq War. \n\n"}
{"id": "58573429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58573429", "title": "BJW Death Mania", "text": "BJW Death Mania\n\nDeath Mania is a major professional wrestling supercard event produced by Big Japan Pro Wrestling (BJW). The event is annually held since 2013.\n\nDeath Mania was a professional wrestling event held on August 25, 2013. The event was headlined by a Cage of Deathmatch for the BJW Deathmatch Heavyweight Championship, in which Shuji Ishikawa successfully defended the title against Jaki Numazawa.\n\nDeath Mania II was a professional wrestling event held on August 31, 2014 and aired on September 7, 2014. The event was headlined by a Glass Board and Kenzan Deathmatch for the BJW Deathmatch Heavyweight Championship, in which Yuko Miyamoto successfully defended the title against Masashi Takeda.\n\nDeath Mania III was a professional wrestling event held on August 30, 2015 and aired on September 10, 2014. The event was headlined by a Scaffold match for the BJW Deathmatch Heavyweight Championship, in which Ryuji Ito successfully defended the title against Yuko Miyamoto.\n\nDeath Mania IV was a professional wrestling event held on August 21, 2016 and aired on August 25, 2016. The event was headlined by a Fluorescent Light Tubes and G Shock Deathmatch for the BJW Deathmatch Heavyweight Championship, in which Kankuro Hoshino successfully defended the title against Abdullah Kobayashi.\n\nDeath Mania 5 was a professional wrestling event held on August 19, 2017 and aired on August 26, 2017. The event was headlined by a Light Tubes and Double Glass Board Deathmatch for the BJW Deathmatch Heavyweight Championship, in which Masashi Takeda successfully defeated Masaya Takahashi to win the championship.\n\nDeath Mania VI was a professional wrestling event held on August 19, 2018 and aired on August 23, 2018. The event was headlined by a Light Tubes and Double Board Deathmatch for the BJW Deathmatch Heavyweight Championship, in which Masashi Takeda successfully defended the title against Yuko Miyamoto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17481556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17481556", "title": "Bal des Ardents", "text": "Bal des Ardents\n\nThe Bal des Ardents (Ball of the Burning Men) or Bal des Sauvages (Ball of the Wild Men) was a masquerade ball held on 28 January 1393 in Paris at which Charles VI of France performed in a dance with five members of the French nobility. Four of the dancers were killed in a fire caused by a torch brought in by a spectator, Charles's brother Louis, Duke of Orléans. Charles and another of the dancers survived. The ball was one of a number of events intended to entertain the young king, who the previous summer had suffered an attack of insanity. The event undermined confidence in Charles's capacity to rule; Parisians considered it proof of courtly decadence and threatened to rebel against the more powerful members of the nobility. The public's outrage forced the King and his brother Orléans, whom a contemporary chronicler accused of attempted regicide and sorcery, to offer penance for the event.\n\nCharles's wife, Isabeau of Bavaria, held the ball to honor the remarriage of a lady-in-waiting. Scholars believe the dance performed at the ball had elements of traditional \"charivari\", with the dancers disguised as wild men, mythical beings often associated with demonology, that were commonly represented in medieval Europe and documented in revels of Tudor England. The event was chronicled by contemporary writers such as the Monk of St Denis and Jean Froissart, and illustrated in a number of 15th-century illuminated manuscripts by painters such as the Master of Anthony of Burgundy. The incident later provided inspiration for Edgar Allan Poe's short story \"Hop-Frog\".\n\nIn 1380, after the death of his father Charles V of France, the 12-year-old Charles VI was crowned king, beginning his minority with his four uncles acting as regents. Within two years one of them, Philip of Burgundy, described by historian Robert Knecht as \"one of the most powerful princes in Europe\", became sole regent to the young king after Louis of Anjou pillaged the royal treasury and departed to campaign in Italy; Charles's other two uncles, John of Berry and Louis of Bourbon, showed little interest in governing. In 1387, the 20-year-old Charles assumed sole control of the monarchy and immediately dismissed his uncles and reinstated the Marmousets, his father's traditional counselors. Unlike his uncles, the Marmousets wanted peace with England, less taxation, and a strong, responsible central government—policies that resulted in a negotiated three-year truce with England, and the Duke of Berry being stripped of his post as governor of Languedoc because of his excessive taxation.\n\nIn 1392 Charles suffered the first in a lifelong series of attacks of insanity, manifested by an \"insatiable fury\" at the attempted assassination of the Constable of France and leader of the Marmousets, Olivier de Clisson—carried out by Pierre de Craon but orchestrated by John IV, Duke of Brittany. Convinced that the attempt on Clisson's life was also an act of violence against himself and the monarchy, Charles quickly planned a retaliatory invasion of Brittany with the approval of the Marmousets, and within months departed Paris with a force of knights.\n\nOn a hot August day outside Le Mans, accompanying his forces on the way to Brittany, without warning Charles drew his weapons and charged his own household knights including his brother Louis I, Duke of Orléans—with whom he had a close relationship—crying \"Forward against the traitors. They wish to deliver me to the enemy.\" He killed four men before his chamberlain grabbed him by the waist and subdued him, after which he fell into a coma that lasted for four days. Few believed he would recover; his uncles, the dukes of Burgundy and Berry, took advantage of the King's illness and quickly seized power, re-established themselves as regents, and dissolved the Marmouset council.\n\nThe comatose king was returned to Le Mans, where Guillaume de Harsigny—a venerated and well-educated 92-year-old physician—was summoned to treat him. After Charles regained consciousness, and his fever subsided, he was returned to Paris by Harsigny, moving slowly from castle to castle, with periods of rest in between. Late in September Charles was well enough to make a pilgrimage of thanks to Notre Dame de Liesse near Laon after which he returned again to Paris.\n\nThe King's sudden onset of insanity was seen by some as a sign of divine anger and punishment and by others as the result of sorcery; modern historians such as Knecht speculate that Charles might have been experiencing the onset of paranoid schizophrenia. Charles continued to be mentally fragile, believing he was made of glass, and according to historian Desmond Seward, running \"howling like a wolf down the corridors of the royal palaces\". Contemporary chronicler Jean Froissart wrote that the King's illness was so severe that he was \"far out of the way; no medicine could help him\". During the worst of his illness Charles was unable to recognize his wife, Isabeau of Bavaria, demanding her removal when she entered his chamber, but after his recovery Charles made arrangements for her to hold guardianship of their children. Isabeau eventually became guardian to her son, the future Charles VII of France (b. 1403), granting her great political power and ensuring a place on the council of regents in the event of a relapse.\n\nIn \"A Distant Mirror: The Calamitous 14th Century\" the historian Barbara Tuchman writes that the physician Harsigny, refusing \"all pleas and offers of riches to remain\", left Paris and ordered the courtiers to shield the King from the duties of government and leadership. He told the King's advisors to \"be careful not to worry or irritate him ... Burden him with work as little as you can; pleasure and forgetfulness will be better for him than anything else.\" To surround Charles with a festive atmosphere and to protect him from the rigor of governing, the court turned to elaborate amusements and extravagant fashions. Isabeau and her sister-in-law Valentina Visconti, Duchess of Orléans, wore jewel-laden dresses and elaborate braided hairstyles coiled into tall shells and covered with wide double hennins that reportedly required doorways to be widened to accommodate them.\n\nThe common people thought the extravagances excessive yet loved their young king, whom they called Charles \"le bien-aimé\" (the well-beloved). Blame for unnecessary excess and expense was directed at the foreign queen, who was brought from Bavaria at the request of Charles's uncles. Neither Isabeau nor her sister-in-law Valentina—daughter of the ruthless Duke of Milan—were well liked by either the court or the people. Froissart wrote in his \"Chronicles\" that Charles's uncles were content to allow the frivolities because \"so long as the Queen and the Duc d'Orléans danced, they were not dangerous or even annoying\".\n\nOn 28 January 1393, Isabeau held a masquerade at the Hôtel Saint-Pol to celebrate the third marriage of her lady-in-waiting, Catherine de Fastaverin. Tuchman explains that a widow's remarriage was traditionally an occasion for mockery and tomfoolery, often celebrated with a \"charivari\" characterized by \"all sorts of licence, disguises, disorders, and loud blaring of discordant music and clanging of cymbals\". On the suggestion of Huguet de Guisay, whom Tuchman describes as well known for his \"outrageous schemes\" and cruelty, six high-ranking knights performed a dance in costume as wood savages. The costumes, which were sewn onto the men, were made of linen soaked with resin to which flax was attached \"so that they appeared shaggy and hairy from head to foot\". Masks made of the same materials covered the dancers' faces and hid their identities from the audience. Some chronicles report that the dancers were bound together by chains. Most of the audience were unaware that Charles was among the dancers. Strict orders forbade the lighting of hall torches and prohibited anyone from entering the hall with a torch during the performance, to minimize the risk of the highly flammable costumes catching fire.\n\nAccording to historian Jan Veenstra the men capered and howled \"like wolves\", spat obscenities and invited the audience to guess their identities while dancing in a \"diabolical\" frenzy. Charles's brother Orléans arrived with Phillipe de Bar, late and drunk, and they entered the hall carrying lit torches. Accounts vary, but Orléans may have held his torch above a dancer's mask to reveal his identity when a spark fell, setting fire to the dancer's leg. In the 17th century, William Prynne wrote of the incident that \"the Duke of Orleance ... put one of the Torches his servants held so neere the flax, that he set one of the Coates on fire, and so each of them set fire on to the other, and so they were all in a bright flame\", whereas a contemporary chronicle stated that he \"threw\" the torch at one of the dancers.\n\nIsabeau, knowing that her husband was one of the dancers, fainted when the men caught fire. Charles, however, was standing at a distance from the other dancers, near his 15-year-old aunt Joan, Duchess of Berry, who swiftly threw her voluminous skirt over him to protect him from the sparks. Sources disagree as to whether the duchess moved into the dance and drew the King aside to speak to him, or whether the King moved away toward the audience. Froissart wrote that \"The King, who proceeded ahead of [the dancers], departed from his companions ... and went to the ladies to show himself to them ... and so passed by the Queen and came near the Duchess of Berry\".\n\nThe scene soon descended into chaos; the dancers shrieked in pain as they burned in their costumes, and the audience, many of them also sustaining burns, screamed as they tried to rescue the burning men. The event was chronicled in uncharacteristic vividness by the Monk of St Denis, who wrote that \"four men were burned alive, their flaming genitals dropping to the floor ... releasing a stream of blood\". Only two dancers survived: the King, thanks to the quick reactions of the Duchess of Berry, and the Sieur de Nantouillet, who jumped into an open vat of wine and remained there until the flames were extinguished. The Count de Joigny died at the scene; Yvain de Foix, son of Gaston Fébus, Count of Foix, and Aimery Poitiers, son of the Count of Valentinois, lingered with painful burns for two days. The instigator of the affair, Huguet de Guisay, survived a day longer, described by Tuchman as bitterly \"cursing and insulting his fellow dancers, the dead and the living, until his last hour\".\n\nThe citizens of Paris, angered by the event and at the danger posed to their monarch, blamed Charles's advisors. A \"great commotion\" swept through the city as the populace threatened to depose Charles's uncles and kill dissolute and depraved courtiers. Greatly concerned at the popular outcry and worried about a repeat of the Maillotin revolt of the previous decade—when Parisians armed with mallets turned against tax collectors—Charles's uncles persuaded the court to do penance at Notre Dame Cathedral, preceded by an apologetic royal progress through the city in which the King rode on horseback with his uncles walking in humility. Orléans, who was blamed for the tragedy, donated funds in atonement for a chapel to be built at the Celestine monastery.\n\nFroissart's chronicle of the event places blame directly on Charles's brother, Orléans. He wrote: \"And thus the feast and marriage celebrations ended with such great sorrow ... [Charles] and [Isabeau] could do nothing to remedy it. We must accept that it was no fault of theirs but of the duke of Orléans.\" Orléans' reputation was severely damaged by the event, compounded by an episode a few years earlier in which he was accused of sorcery after hiring an apostate monk to imbue a ring, dagger and sword with demonic magic. The theologian Jean Petit later testified that Orléans practiced sorcery, and that the fire at the dance represented a failed attempt at regicide made in retaliation for Charles's attack the previous summer.\n\nThe \"Bal des Ardents\" added to the impression of a court steeped in extravagance, with a king in delicate health and unable to rule. Charles's attacks of illness increased in frequency such that by the end of the 1390s his role was merely ceremonial. By the early 15th century he was neglected and often forgotten, a lack of leadership that contributed to the decline and fragmentation of the Valois dynasty. In 1407, Philip the Bold's son, John the Fearless, had his cousin Orléans assassinated because of \"vice, corruption, sorcery, and a long list of public and private villainies\"; at the same time Isabeau was accused of having been the mistress of her husband's brother. Orléans's assassination pushed the country into a civil war between the Burgundians and the Orléanists (known as the Armagnacs), which lasted for several decades. The vacuum created by the lack of central power and the general irresponsibility of the French court resulted in it gaining a reputation for lax morals and decadence that endured for more than 200 years.\n\nVeenstra writes in \"Magic and Divination at the Courts of Burgundy and France\" that the \"Bal des Ardents\" reveals the tension between Christian beliefs and the latent paganism that existed in 14th-century society. According to him, the event \"laid bare a great cultural struggle with the past but also became an ominous foreshadowing of the future.\"\n\nWild men or savages—usually depicted carrying staves or clubs, living beyond the bounds of civilization without shelter or fire, lacking feelings and souls—were then a metaphor for man without God. Common superstition held that long-haired wild men, known as \"lutins\", who danced to firelight either to conjure demons or as part of fertility rituals, lived in mountainous areas such as the Pyrenees. In some village \"charivaris\" at harvest or planting time dancers dressed as wild men, to represent demons, were ceremonially captured and then an effigy of them was symbolically burnt to appease evil spirits. The church, however, considered these rituals pagan and demonic.\n\nVeenstra explains that it was believed that by dressing as wild men, villagers ritualistically \"conjured demons by imitating them\"—although at that period penitentials forbade a belief in wild men or an imitation of them, such as the costumed dance at Isabeau's event. In folkloric rituals the \"burning did not happen literally but in \"effigie\"\", he writes, \"contrary to the \"Bal des Ardents\" where the seasonal fertility rite had watered down to courtly entertainment, but where burning had been promoted to a dreadful reality.\" A 15th-century chronicle describes the \"Bal des Ardents\" as \"una corea procurance demone\" (\"a dance to ward off the devil\").\n\nBecause remarriage was often thought to be a sacrilege—common belief (contrary to the Gospel – Luke 20:27–40 and Matthew 22:29–30) was that the sacrament of marriage extended beyond death—it was censured by the community. Thus the purpose of the Bal des Ardents was twofold: to entertain the court and to humiliate and rebuke Isabeau's lady-in-waiting—in an inherently pagan manner, which the Monk of St Denis seemed to dislike. A ritual burning on the wedding night of a woman who was remarrying had Christian origins as well, according to Veenstra. The Book of Tobit partly concerns a woman who had seven husbands murdered by the demon Asmodeus; she is eventually freed of the demon by the burning of the heart and liver of a fish.\n\nThe event also may have served as a symbolic exorcism of Charles's mental illness at a time when magicians and sorcerers were commonly consulted by members of the court. In the early 15th century, ritual burning of evil, demonic, or Satanic forces was not uncommon as shown by Orléans's later persecution of the King's physician Jehan de Bar, who was burned to death after confessing, under torture, to practicing sorcery.\n\nThe death of four members of the nobility was sufficiently important to ensure that the event was recorded in contemporary chronicles, most notably by Froissart and the Monk of St Denis, and subsequently illustrated in a number of copies of illuminated manuscripts. While the two main chroniclers agree on essential points of the evening—the dancers were dressed as wild men, the King survived, one man fell into a vat, and four of the dancers died—there are discrepancies in the details. Froissart wrote that the dancers were chained together, which is not mentioned in the monk's account. Furthermore, the two chroniclers are at odds regarding the purpose of the dance. According to the historian Susan Crane, the monk describes the event as a wild \"charivari\" with the audience participating in the dance, whereas Froissart's description suggests a theatrical performance without audience participation.\nFroissart wrote about the event in Book IV of his \"Chronicles\" (covering the years 1389 to 1440), an account described by scholar Katerina Nara as full of \"a sense of pessimism\", as Froissart \"did not approve of all he recorded\". Froissart blamed Orléans for the tragedy, and the monk blamed the instigator, de Guisay, whose reputation for treating low-born servants like animals earned him such universal hatred that \"the Nobles rejoiced at his agonizing death\".\n\nThe Monk wrote of the event in the \"Histoire de Charles VI\" (\"History of Charles VI\"), covering about 25 years of the King's reign. He seemed to disapprove on the grounds that the event broke social mores and the King's conduct was unbecoming, whereas Froissart described it as a celebratory event.\n\nScholars are unsure whether either chronicler was present that evening. According to Crane, Froissart wrote of the event about five years later, and the monk about ten. Veenstra speculates that the monk may have been an eyewitness (as he was for much of Charles VI's reign) and that his account is the more accurate of the two. The monk's chronicle is generally accepted as essential for understanding the King's court, however his neutrality may have been affected by his pro-Burgundian and anti-Orléanist stance, causing him to depict the royal couple in a negative manner. A third account was written in the mid-15th century by Jean Juvenal des Ursins in his biography of Charles, \"L'Histoire de Charles VI: roy de France\", not published until 1614.\n\nThe Froissart manuscript dating from between 1470 and 1472 from the Harleian Collection held at the British Library includes a miniature depicting the event, titled \"Dance of the Wodewoses\", attributed to an unknown painter referred to as the Master of the Harley Froissart. A slightly later edition of Froissart's \"Chronicles\", dated to around 1480, contains a miniature of the event, \"Fire at a Masked Dance\", also attributed to an unidentified early Netherlandish painter known as the Master of the Getty Froissart. The 15th-century Gruuthuse manuscript of Froissart's \"Chronicles\", held at the Bibliothèque nationale de France, has a miniature of the event. Another edition of Froissart's \"Chronicles\" published in Paris around 1508 may have been made expressly for Maria of Cleves. The edition has 25 miniatures in the margins; the single full-page illustration is of the \"Bal des Ardents\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3486133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3486133", "title": "Charles Stuart (murderer)", "text": "Charles Stuart (murderer)\n\nCharles \"Chuck\" Stuart (December 18, 1959 – January 4, 1990) was an American suspect in a 1989 Boston area murder that generated national headlines. Stuart falsely alleged that his wife and unborn child were shot and killed by an African-American assailant. Stuart's brother confessed to police that Stuart himself killed them to collect life insurance, and Stuart subsequently died by suicide.\n\nIn 1989, Stuart was serving as the general manager for Edward F. Kakas & Sons, furriers on Newbury Street. Stuart's wife, Carol (née DiMaiti, born March 26, 1959, in Boston), was a tax attorney, and pregnant with the couple's first child. On October 23, the couple were driving through the Roxbury neighborhood after attending childbirth classes at Brigham and Women's Hospital. According to Stuart's subsequent statement, a black gunman with a raspy voice forced his way into their car at a stoplight, ordered them to drive to nearby Mission Hill, robbed them, then shot Charles in the stomach and Carol in the head. Stuart then drove away, despite his injuries, and called 911 on his car phone.\n\nOn the night of the crime, the CBS reality television series \"Rescue 911\" was riding with Boston Emergency Medical Services personnel. The crew took dramatic footage of the couple being extricated from the car: Carol can be seen \"in profile, her pregnancy prominent, being wheeled to the ambulance.\" Other footage included Charles Stuart straining to speak with ambulance workers, and graphic scenes of his rushed entry to the hospital's emergency room.\n\nCarol Stuart died just hours after the shooting, at approximately 3:00 a.m. on October 24. Her funeral took place four days later at St. James Church in her native Medford. Shortly before her death, doctors delivered her baby by caesarean section, two months premature. Baptized in the intensive care unit, the child was given the name Christopher, according to Charles and Carol's prior wishes. Christopher had suffered trauma and oxygen deprivation during the shooting, and died seventeen days later. A private funeral service was held for Christopher on November 20, 1989. Both Carol and Christopher are buried under Carol's maiden name.\n\nBoston Police searched for suspects based on Stuart's description of the assailant. \"The Washington Post\" described the situation: “The city's anger seems inexhaustible. That may be because it is impossible not to feel sullied by the Stuart case. Either one was duped by a fabrication with racist overtones, or one was impotent as police focused their investigation on a succession of innocent black men.” Meanwhile, Stuart himself was hospitalized for six weeks; the severity of his injuries required two operations, and Stuart's surgeon did not suspect that the nearly fatal wounds were self-inflicted. Police found a young man, Willie Bennett, who fit Stuart's description. On December 28, Stuart identified Bennett as his attacker in a lineup.\n\nThe case against Bennett abruptly collapsed on January 3, 1990, when Charles Stuart's brother Matthew identified Charles as Carol's killer. Matthew admitted that he had driven to meet Stuart that night to help him commit what he had been told was to be an insurance fraud. Upon arrival, Matthew said that he had seen that Carol had been shot, and that his brother had shot himself to make it appear as a carjacking. Matthew took the gun and a bag of valuables, including the couple's wedding rings, and threw them off the Pines River Bridge in Revere. Some of the items, including the gun, were later recovered.\n\nAs Stuart had blamed the incident on an African-American male, and the information provided by his brother led the police to conclude this was not true, racial tensions were heightened in Boston for a time.\n\nPolice later learned that Stuart had been upset at the prospect of becoming a father, particularly worried that his wife would not go back to work and their financial status would be diminished. Stuart had also started some sort of relationship with Deborah Allen, an employee at Kakas & Sons, though Allen denied any romantic involvement. \"The Boston Globe\" reported that a $480,000 check was issued to Charles Stuart in payment for a life insurance policy on his wife, but no such check was ever found. The television show \"Cold Blood\" reported and confirmed that Charles received a $100,000 life insurance check which he cashed just after being discharged from the hospital. Stuart also bought a new Nissan Maxima for $16,000 in cash.\n\nOn January 4, 1990, hours after his brother Matthew revealed the truth to police, Charles met with his lawyer. Shortly afterward, Stuart's car was found abandoned on the Tobin Bridge in Chelsea. A note was found in Stuart's car, stating that he was \"beaten\" by the \"new accusations\" and was \"sapped of [his] strength.\" Stuart's body was found in the Mystic River the next day. Investigators later discovered that Stuart had previously expressed a desire to kill his wife.\n\nIn 1991, Matthew Stuart was indicted for obstruction of justice and insurance fraud for his role in covering up the crime. An associate of Matthew, John McMahon, was also indicted as an accessory to murder. Stuart pleaded guilty in 1992 and was sentenced to three to five years in prison. He was released on parole in 1997, but was later rearrested for cocaine trafficking. On September 3, 2011, Matthew Stuart was found dead from an apparent drug overdose in Heading Home, a homeless shelter in Cambridge.\n\nIn Carol DiMaiti's memory, her family established the Carol DiMaiti Stuart Foundation to provide scholarship aid to Mission Hill residents. By early 2006, the foundation had awarded $1.2 million to 220 students. The DiMaitis' attorney, Marvin Geller, explained to the press: \"Carol would not want to be remembered as the victim of a sensational murder, but rather as a woman who left behind a legacy of healing and compassion.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4136283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4136283", "title": "Christian drama", "text": "Christian drama\n\nChristian drama is based on Christian religious themes.\n\nThrough the medieval period churches in Europe frequently performed mystery plays, retelling the stories of the Bible. They developed from the representation of Bible stories in churches with accompanying song. As these liturgical plays became more popular, more vernacular or everyday elements were introduced and non-clergy began to participate. As the dramas became increasingly secular, they began to be performed entirely in the vernacular and were moved out of the churches by the 13th or 14th century.\n\nThese religious performances were taken over by the guilds, with each guild taking responsibility for a particular piece of scriptural history. From the guild control they gained the name mystery play. The mystery play developed into a series of plays dealing with all the major events in the Christian calendar, from the Creation to the Day of Judgment. By the end of the 15th century, the tradition of acting these plays in cycles on festival days (such as the Feast of Corpus Christi) was established across Europe.\n\nBy the 15th and 16th century the form had developed into the morality play. These were allegories, in which the protagonists met personifications of various moral attributes, the net effect being the encouragement to live a virtuous life.\n\nIn the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries theatre was generally seen as wicked, and the church made attempts to suppress it. In the United States condemnation of the theatre was widespread in the eighteenth century; in 1794 President Timothy Dwight IV of Yale College in his \"Essay on the Stage\" declared that \"to indulge a taste for playgoing means nothing more or less than the loss of that most valuable treasure: the immortal soul.\"\n\nIn the twentieth century churches, particularly evangelical churches, rediscovered the use of theatre as a form of outreach and as a valid art form.\n\nIn Britain in the early twentieth century it was illegal for any human actor to portray a divine personage on stage, placing severe restrictions on Christian theatre. The groundbreaking 1941-1942 radio drama \"The Man Born to be King\" shattered this taboo by not only including Jesus as a character but giving him 'ordinary' speech rather than 'biblical' language. (Radio portrayals were not covered by the law, but the piece drew huge complaints nonetheless.)\n\nT. S. Eliot's play \"Murder in the Cathedral\" explored Christian themes of martyrdom and sacrifice as well as church history.\n\nIn the 1960s many plays were produced dealing with Christian subjects, notably Jesus Christ Superstar and Godspell. At approximately the same time many churches were again turning to drama as a means of outreach, and as a valid art form. Small Christian theatre companies began to spring up in Britain and America. Plays such as \"Heaven's Gates, Hell's Flames\" were used for evangelism. Covenant Players was founded in 1963 to produce Christian plays written by its founder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "372063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372063", "title": "Coase theorem", "text": "Coase theorem\n\nIn law and economics, the Coase theorem () describes the economic efficiency of an economic allocation or outcome in the presence of externalities. The theorem states that if trade in an externality is possible and there are sufficiently low transaction costs, bargaining will lead to a Pareto efficient outcome regardless of the initial allocation of property. In practice, obstacles to bargaining or poorly defined property rights can prevent Coasian bargaining. This \"theorem\" is commonly attributed to Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences winner Ronald Coase during his tenure at the London School of Economics, SUNY at Buffalo, University of Virginia, and University of Chicago.\n\nThis 1960 paper, along with his 1937 paper on the nature of the firm (which also emphasizes the role of transaction costs), earned Ronald Coase the 1991 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. In this 1960 paper, Coase argued that real-world transaction costs are rarely low enough to allow for efficient bargaining and hence the theorem is almost always inapplicable to economic reality. Since then, others have demonstrated the importance of the perfect information assumption and shown using game theory that inefficient outcomes are to be expected when this assumption is not met.\n\nIn his later writings, Coase expressed frustration that his theorem was often misunderstood. Although some have used Coase's analysis to argue that because transaction costs are never zero it is always appropriate for a government to intervene and regulate, Coase believed that economists and politicians \"tended to over-estimate the advantages which come from governmental regulation.\" Some mistakenly understood the theorem to mean that markets would always achieve efficient results when transaction costs were low, when in reality his point was almost the exact opposite: because transaction costs are never zero, it cannot be assumed that any institutional arrangement will necessarily be efficient. Therefore, Coase argued that it is important to always compare alternative institutional arrangements to see which would come closest to \"the unattainable ideal of the (mythical) world of zero transaction costs.\"\n\nNevertheless, the Coase theorem is considered an important basis for most modern economic analyses of government regulation, especially in the case of externalities, and it has been used by jurists and legal scholars to analyse and resolve legal disputes. George Stigler summarized the resolution of the externality problem in the absence of transaction costs in a 1966 economics textbook in terms of private and social cost, and for the first time called it a \"theorem.\" Since the 1960s, a voluminous amount of literature on the Coase theorem and its various interpretations, proofs, and criticism has developed and continues to grow.\n\nCoase developed his theorem when considering the regulation of radio frequencies. Competing radio stations could use the same frequencies and would therefore interfere with each other's broadcasts. The problem faced by regulators was how to eliminate interference and allocate frequencies to radio stations efficiently. What Coase proposed in 1959 was that as long as property rights in these frequencies were well defined, it ultimately did not matter if adjacent radio stations interfered with each other by broadcasting in the same frequency band. Furthermore, it did not matter to whom the property rights were granted. His reasoning was that the station able to reap the higher economic gain from broadcasting would have an incentive to pay the other station not to interfere. In the absence of transaction costs, both stations would strike a mutually advantageous deal. It would not matter which station had the initial right to broadcast; eventually, the right to broadcast would end up with the party that was able to put it to the most highly valued use. Of course, the parties themselves would care who was granted the rights initially because this allocation would impact their wealth, but the end result of who broadcasts would not change because the parties would trade to the outcome that was overall most efficient. This counterintuitive insight—that the initial imposition of legal entitlement is irrelevant because the parties will eventually reach the same result—is Coase’s invariance thesis.\n\nCoase's main point, clarified in his article 'The Problem of Social Cost,' published in 1960 and cited when he was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1991, was that transaction costs, however, could not be neglected, and therefore, the initial allocation of property rights often mattered. As a result, one normative conclusion sometimes drawn from the Coase theorem is that liability should initially be assigned to the actors for whom avoiding the costs associated with the externality problem are the lowest. The problem in real life is that nobody knows ex ante the most valued use of a resource, and also that there exist costs involving the reallocation of resources by government. Another, more refined, normative conclusion also often discussed in law and economics is that government should create institutions that minimize transaction costs, so as to allow misallocations of resources to be corrected as cheaply as possible.\n\nBecause Ronald Coase himself did not originally intend to set forth any one particular theorem, it has largely been the effort of others who have developed the loose formulation of the Coase theorem. What Coase initially provided was fuel in the form of “counterintuitive insight” that externalities necessarily involved more than a single party engaged in conflicting activities and must be treated as a reciprocal problem. His work explored the relationship between the parties and their conflicting activities and the role of assigned rights/liabilities. While the exact definition of the Coase theorem remains unsettled, there are two issues or claims within the theorem: the results will be efficient and the results in terms of resource allocation will be the same regardless of initial assignments of rights/liabilities.\n\nThe zero transaction cost condition is taken to mean that there are no impediments to bargaining. Since any inefficient allocation leaves unexploited contractual opportunities, the allocation cannot be a contractual equilibrium.\n\nThis version fits the legal cases cited by Coase. If it is more efficient to prevent cattle trampling a farmer's fields by fencing in the farm, rather than fencing in the cattle, the outcome of bargaining will be the fence around the farmer's fields, regardless of whether victim rights or unrestricted grazing-rights prevail. Subsequent authors have shown that this version of the theorem is not generally true, however. Changing liability placement changes wealth distribution, which in turn affects demand and prices.\n\nIn his UCLA dissertation and in subsequent work, Steven N. S. Cheung (1969) coined an extension of the Coase theorem: aside from transaction costs, all institutional forms are capable of achieving the same efficient allocation. Contracts, extended markets, and corrective taxation are equally capable of internalizing an externality. To be logically correct, some restrictive assumptions are needed. First, spillover effects must be bilateral. This applies to the cases that Coase investigated. Cattle trample a farmer's fields; a building blocks sunlight to a neighbor's swimming pool; a confectioner disturbs a dentist's patients etc. In each case the source of the externality is matched with a particular victim. It does not apply to pollution generally, since there are typically multiple victims. Equivalence also requires that each institution has equivalent property rights. Victim rights in contract law correspond to victim entitlements in extended markets and to the polluter pays principle in taxation.\n\nNotwithstanding these restrictive assumptions, the equivalence version helps to underscore the Pigouvian fallacies that motivated Coase. Pigouvian taxation is revealed as not the only way to internalize an externality. Market and contractual institutions should also be considered, as well as corrective subsidies. The equivalence theorem also is a springboard for Coase's primary achievement—providing the pillars for the New Institutional Economics. First, the Coasean maximum-value solution becomes a benchmark by which institutions can be compared. And the institutional equivalence result establishes the motive for comparative institutional analysis and suggests the means by which institutions can be compared (according to their respective abilities to economize on transaction costs). The equivalency result also underlies Coase's (1937) proposition that the boundaries of the firm are chosen to minimize transaction costs. Aside from the \"marketing costs\" of using outside suppliers and the agency costs of central direction inside the firm, whether to put Fisher Body inside or outside of General Motors would have been a matter of indifference.\n\nThe Coase Theorem has been used by jurists and legal scholars in the analysis and resolution of disputes involving both contract law and tort law.\n\nIn contract law, Coase is often used as a method to evaluate the relative power of the parties during the negotiation and acceptance of a traditional or classical bargained-for contract.\n\nIn modern tort law, application of economic analysis to assign liability for damages was popularized by Judge Learned Hand of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in his decision, \"United States v. Carroll Towing Co.\" 159 F.2d 169 (2d. Cir. 1947). Judge Hand's holding resolved simply that liability could be determined by applying the formula of B < PL, where B = the burden (economic or otherwise) of adequate protection against foreseeable damages, P = the probability of damage (or loss) occurring and L = the gravity of the resulting injury (loss). This decision flung open the doors of economic analysis in tort cases, thanks in no small part to Judge Hand's popularity among legal scholars.\n\nIn resultant scholarship using economic models of analysis, prominently including the Coase theorem, theoretical models demonstrated that, when transaction costs are minimized or nonexistent, the legal appropriation of liability diminishes in importance or disappears completely. In other words, parties will arrive at an economically efficient solution that may ignore the legal framework in place.\n\nTwo property owners own land on a mountainside. Property Owner A's land is upstream from Owner B and there is significant, damaging runoff from Owner A's land to Owner B's land. Four scenarios are considered:\n\n\nThe Coase theorem considers all four of these outcomes logical because the economic incentives will be stronger than legal incentives. Pure or traditional legal analysis will expect that the wall will exist in both scenarios where B has a cause of action and that the wall will never exist if B has no cause of action.\n\nThe Jones family plants pear trees on their property which is adjacent to the Smith family. The Smith family gets an external benefit from the Jones family’s pear trees because they pick up whatever pears fall to the ground on their side of the property line. This is an externality because the Smith family does not pay the Jones family for utility received from gathering the fallen pears and, therefore, does not participate in the market transaction of pear production. It results in the pears being underproduced, which means too few pear trees are planted.\n\nLet's assume the following:\n\nPossible solutions to internalize the externality:\n\nBy applying the Coase Theorem two possible solutions arise for internalizing this externality. These solutions can occur because the positive external benefits are clearly identified and we assume that 1) transaction costs are low; 2) property rights are clearly defined.\n\nAfter realizing that the Smith family gets utility from the Jones family’s pear trees, the Jones family thinks it is unfair that the Smiths get utility from picking up the pears that fall from their pear trees. The first option to eliminate the externality could be to put up a net fence that will prevent pears from falling to the ground of the Smith’s side property line, which will automatically decrease the Smith family’s marginal benefit to 0.\n\nThe second option for the Jones could be to impose a cost on the Smith family if they want to continue to get utility from their pear trees. Say, if the Jones family has a MC of $25 for each pear tree produced, it allows them to plant 3 pear trees a year (Jones’ MB = MC). However, if the cost is imposed on the Smiths, the optimal quantity of pear trees produced a year will increase to 4 (Jones’ MB + Smiths’ MB = MC). By internalizing the externality, both the Smith family and the Jones family increase their overall utility by increasing production from 3 pear trees a year to 4. It should be noted that $5 is the maximum price the Smiths are willing to pay for an additional, fourth, pear tree, which implies their marginal benefit to plant a fifth pear tree is 0.\n\nWhile most critics find fault with the applicability of the Coase Theorem, a critique of the theorem itself can be found in the work of the critical legal scholar Duncan Kennedy, who argues that the initial allocation always matters in reality. This is because psychological studies indicate that asking prices often exceed offer prices, due to the so-called endowment effect. Essentially, a person who already has an entitlement is likely to request more to give it up than would a person who started off without the entitlement. The validity of this theoretical critique in practice is addressed in a later section.\n\nAn additional critique of the theorem comes from new institutional economist Steven N. S. Cheung thinks that private property rights are institutions that arise to reduce transaction costs. The existence of private property rights implies that transaction costs are non-zero. If transaction costs are really zero, any property rights system will result in identical and efficient resource allocation, and the assumption of private property rights is not necessary. Therefore, zero transaction costs and private property rights cannot logically coexist.\n\nLastly, using a game-theoretic model, it has been argued that sometimes it is easier to reach an agreement if the initial property rights are unclear.\n\nRonald Coase's work itself emphasized a problem in applying the Coase theorem: transactions are \"often extremely costly, sufficiently costly at any rate to prevent many transactions that would be carried out in a world in which the pricing system worked without cost.\" (Coase, 1960—first paragraph of section VI.) This isn't a criticism of the theorem itself, since the theorem considers only those situations in which there are no transaction costs. Instead, it is an objection to applications of the theorem that neglect this crucial assumption.\n\nSo, a key criticism is that the theorem is almost always inapplicable in economic reality, because real-world transaction costs are rarely low enough to allow for efficient bargaining. (That was the conclusion of Coase's original paper, making him the first 'critic' of using the theorem as a practical solution.) Neo-Keynesian economist James Meade argued that even in a simple case of a beekeeper's bees pollinating a nearby farmer's crops, Coasean bargaining is inefficient (though beekeepers and farmers do make contracts and have for some time).\n\nChicago school anarcho-capitalist economist David D. Friedman has argued that the fact that an \"economist as distinguished as Meade assumed an externality problem was insoluble save for government intervention suggests...the range of problems to which the Coasean solution is relevant may be greater than many would at first guess.\" Friedman is scathing of most critical attacks on the Coase theorem.\n\nIn many cases of externalities, the parties might be a single large factory versus a thousand landowners nearby. In such situations, say the critics, the transaction costs rise extraordinarily high due to the fundamental difficulties in bargaining with a large number of individuals.\n\nHowever, transaction costs are not only a barrier for situations with large numbers of involved parties. Even in the simplest of situations, with only two individuals, social costs can increase transaction costs to be unreasonably high so as to invalidate the applicability of Coasean bargaining. As economist Jonathan Gruber describes, there are strong social norms that often prevent people from bargaining in most day-to-day situations. Whether it is the awkwardness of the exchange or the fear of greatly under-valuing someone else’s property rights, transaction costs can still be quite high even in the most basic interactions that could make use of the Coase Theorem.\n\nGruber further describes three additional issues with attempting to apply the Coase Theorem to real-world situations. The first of these is known as the assignment problem, and stems from the fact that for most situations with externalities, it is extremely difficult to determine who may be responsible for the externality as well as who is actually affected by it. Take the case of a polluted river that reduces the fish population. How can the involved parties determine which factories may have contributed the pollution that specifically harmed the fish, or whether there were any natural factors that interfered in the process. And even if we can determine who exactly is responsible and who is harmed, it is incredibly cumbersome to accurately quantify these effects. People cannot easily translate their experiences to monetary values, and they are likely to overstate the harm they have suffered. At the same time, the polluters would likely underestimate the proportion of the externality that they are responsible for.\n\nSecond, in situations where multiple parties hold the property rights, Coasean bargaining often fails because of the holdout problem. Once all the property owners except for one have accepted the Coasean solution, the last party is able to demand more compensation from the opposing party in order to part with the property right. Knowing this, the other property owners have the incentive to also demand more, leading to the unraveling of the bargaining process.\n\nLastly, if the side with only one party holds the property rights (so as to avoid the holdout problem), Coasean bargaining still fails because of the free-rider problem. When the multiple parties on the other side all benefit fairly equally from the results of the negotiations, then each of the parties has the incentive to free-ride, to withhold their payments and withdraw from the negotiations because they can still receive the benefits regardless of whether or not they contribute financially. Ellingsen and Paltseva (2016) model contract negotiation games and show that the only way to avoid the free-rider problem in situations with multiple parties is to enforce mandatory participation (such as through the use of court orders).\n\nIn 2009, in their seminal JEI article, Hahnel and Sheeran highlight several major misinterpretations and common assumptions, which when accounted for substantially reduce the applicability of Coase's theorem to real world policy and economic problems. First, they recognize that the solution between a single polluter and single victim is a negotiation—not a market. As such, it is subject to the extensive work on bargaining games, negotiation, and game theory (specifically a \"divide the pie\" game under incomplete information). This typically yields a broad range of potential negotiated solutions, making it unlikely that the efficient outcome will be the one selected. Rather it is more likely to be determined by a host of factors including the structure of the negotiations, discount rates and other factors of relative bargaining strength (cf. Ariel Rubenstein).\n\nIf the negotiation is not a single shot game, then reputation effects may also occur, which can dramatically distort outcomes and may even lead to failed negotiation (cf. David M. Kreps, also the chainstore paradox). Second, the information assumptions required to apply Coase's theorem correctly to yield an efficient result are complete information—in other words that both sides lack private information, that their true costs are completely known not only to themselves but to each other, and that this knowledge state is also common knowledge. When this is not the case, Coasean solutions predictably yield highly inefficient results because of perverse incentives—not \"mere\" transaction costs.\n\nIf the polluter has the ownership rights, it is incentivized to overstate its benefits from polluting, if the victim has the ownership rights, (s)he has the incentive to also misrepresent her/his damages. As a result, under incomplete information (probably the only state of knowledge for most real world negotiations), Coasean bargaining yields predictably inefficient results.\n\nHahnel and Sheeran emphasize that these failures are not due to behavioral issues or irrationality (although these are quite prevalent (ultimatum game, cognitive biases)), are not due to transaction costs (although these are also quite prevalent), and are not due to absorbing states and inability to pay. Rather, they are due to fundamental theoretical requirements of Coase's theorem (necessary conditions) that are typically grossly misunderstood, and that when not present systematically eliminate the ability of Coaseian approaches to obtain efficient outcomes—locking in inefficient ones. Hahnel and Sheeran conclude that it is highly unlikely that conditions required for an efficient Coaseian solution will exist in any real-world economic situations.\n\nUnconstrained Coasean bargaining ex post may also lead to a hold-up problem ex ante. Thus, even though it is often claimed that Coasean bargaining is an alternative to Pigouvian taxation, it has been argued that in a hold-up situation Coasean bargaining may actually justify a Pigouvian tax. Alternatively, it may be efficient to forbid renegotiation. Yet, there are situations in which a ban on contract renegotiation is not desirable.\nUnlike Hahnel and Sheeran, the economist Richard Thaler highlights the importance of behavioral economics in explaining the inability to effectively use the Coase Theorem in practice. Thaler modified his experiments with the Ultimatum game and showed that people were more likely to be concerned with ensuring fairness in negotiations when negotiating over their own tangible property rather than in an abstract sense. This suggests that in practice, people would not be willing to accept the efficient outcomes prescribed by the Coasean bargaining if they deem them to be unfair. So, while the Coase theorem suggests that parties who lose out on property rights should then pursue the property according to how much they value it, this does not often happen in reality. For example, Professor Ward Farnsworth has described how in the aftermath of twenty observed legal nuisance cases, none of the parties ever attempted to engage in Coasean bargaining (as would be expected to reach the most efficient outcome) because of anger at the unfairness of having to bargain. It is possible that Coase and his defenders would simply view this as a non-pecuniary transaction cost, but that may be an unreasonable extension of the concept of transaction costs.\n\nThaler has also provided experimental evidence for the argument that initial allocations matter, put forth by Duncan Kennedy (as previously noted), among others. When students were trading cash-equivalent tokens, the negotiations resulted in the students who would receive the most cash from a token (as told by the researchers) holding the tokens, as would be predicted by the Coase Theorem. However, when the students were trading property (mugs in this case) that were not directly equivalent to cash, proper Coasean bargaining did not occur as depicted in the adjacent diagram. This is because people generally exhibit an endowment effect, in which they value something more once they actually have possession of it. Thus, the Coase Theorem would not always work in practice because initial allocations of property rights would affect the end result of the negotiations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21116079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21116079", "title": "Damascus International Film Festival", "text": "Damascus International Film Festival\n\nThe Damascus International Film Festival () is a biannual November film festival hosted by the government of Syria since 1979. The festival was established by the late Syrian film director Muhammad Shahin. It alternates with the Carthage Film Festival. Up to 1999, the festival's competition focused on films from Arab countries, Latin America and Asia. Since 2001 the festival has an international focus.\n\n"}
{"id": "1572510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572510", "title": "Desmond Rebellions", "text": "Desmond Rebellions\n\nThe Desmond Rebellions occurred in 1569–1573 and 1579–1583 in the Irish province of Munster.\nThey were rebellions by the Earl of Desmond – head of the FitzGerald dynasty in Munster – and his followers, the Geraldines and their allies, against the threat of the extension of their South Welsh Tewdwr cousins of Elizabethan English government over the province. The rebellions were motivated primarily by the desire to maintain the independence of feudal lords from their monarch, but also had an element of religious antagonism between Catholic Geraldines and the Protestant English state. They culminated in the destruction of the Desmond dynasty and the plantation or colonisation of Munster with English Protestant settlers. 'Desmond' is the Anglicisation of the Irish \"Deasmumhain\", meaning 'South Munster'\n\nThe south of Ireland (the provinces of Munster and southern Leinster) was dominated, as it had been for over two centuries, by the Old English Butlers of Ormonde and the FitzGeralds of Desmond. Both families raised their own armed forces and imposed their own law, a mixture of Irish and English customs independent of the English government imposed on Ireland. Beginning in the 1530s, successive English administrations tried to expand English control over Ireland (See Tudor conquest of Ireland). By the 1560s, their attention had turned to the south of Ireland and Henry Sidney, as Lord Deputy of Ireland, was charged with establishing the authority of the English government over the independent lordships there. His solution was the formation of \"lord presidencies\"—provincial military governors who would replace the local lords as military powers and keepers of the peace.\n\nThe dynasties saw the presidencies as intrusions into their sphere of influence. Their interfamilial competition had seen the Butlers and FitzGeralds fight a pitched battle against each other at Affane in County Waterford in 1565 in defiance of English law. Elizabeth I summoned the heads of both houses to London to explain their actions. However, the treatment of the dynasties was not even-handed. Thomas Butler, 10th Earl of Ormonde — \"Black Tom\" Butler, Queen Elizabeth's cousin and friend – was pardoned, while both Gerald FitzGerald, 14th Earl of Desmond (in 1567) and his brother, John of Desmond, widely regarded as the real military leader of the FitzGeralds, (in 1568) were arrested and detained in the Tower of London on Ormonde's urging.\n\nThis decapitated the natural leadership of the Munster Geraldines and left the Desmond earldom in the hands of a soldier, James FitzMaurice FitzGerald, the captain general of the Desmond military. FitzMaurice had little stake in a new demilitarised order in Munster, with abolition of the Irish lords' armies. A factor that drew wider support for FitzMaurice was the prospect of land confiscations, which had been mooted by Sidney and Peter Carew, an English claimant to lands granted to an ancestor just after the Norman conquest of Ireland that had been lost soon afterwards.\n\nThis ensured FitzMaurice the support of important Munster clans, notably MacCarthy Mór, O'Sullivan Beare and O'Keefe, and two prominent Butlers, brothers of the Earl. Fitzmaurice himself had lost the land he had held at Kerricurrihy in County Cork, which had been taken and leased to English colonists. He was a devout Catholic, influenced by the counter-reformation, and saw the Protestant Elizabethan governors as his enemies.\n\nTo discourage Sidney from going ahead with the Lord Presidency for Munster and to re-establish Desmond primacy over the Butlers, FitzMaurice planned rebellion against the English presence in the south, and against the Earl of Ormonde. FitzMaurice had wider aims than simply the recovery of FitzGerald supremacy within the context of the English Kingdom of Ireland. Before the rebellion, he secretly sent Maurice MacGibbon, Catholic Archbishop of Cashel, to seek military aid from Philip II of Spain.\n\nFitzMaurice first attacked the English colony at Kerrycurihy south of Cork city in June 1569, before attacking Cork itself and those native lords who refused to join the rebellion. FitzMaurice's force of 4,500 men went on to besiege Kilkenny, seat of the Earls of Ormonde, in July. In response, Sidney mobilised 600 English troops, who marched south from Dublin and another 400 landed by sea in Cork. Thomas Butler, Earl of Ormonde, returned from London, where he had been at court, brought the Butlers out of the rebellion and mobilised Gaelic Irish clans antagonistic to the Geraldines.\n\nTogether, Ormonde, Sidney and Humphrey Gilbert, appointed as governor of Munster, devastated the lands of FitzMaurice's allies in a scorched earth policy. FitzMaurice's forces broke up, as individual lords had to retire to defend their own territories. Gilbert, a half-brother of Sir Walter Raleigh, was the most notorious for terror tactics, killing civilians at random and setting up corridors of severed heads at the entrance to his camps.\n\nSidney forced FitzMaurice into the mountains of Kerry, from where he launched guerrilla attacks on the English and their allies. By 1570, most of FitzMaurice's allies had submitted to Sidney. The most important, Donal MacCarthy Mór, surrendered in November 1569. Nevertheless, the guerrilla campaign continued for three more years. In February 1571, John Perrot was made Lord President of Munster. He pursued FitzMaurice with 700 troops for over a year without success. FitzMaurice had some victories, capturing an English ship near Kinsale and burning the town of Kilmallock in 1571, but by early 1573 his force was reduced to less than 100 men. FitzMaurice finally submitted on 23 February 1573, having negotiated a pardon for his life. However, in 1574, he became landless, and in 1575 he sailed to France to seek help from the Catholic powers to start another rebellion.\n\nGerald FitzGerald, Earl of Desmond, and his brother, John, were released from prison to reconstruct their shattered territory. Under a settlement imposed after the rebellion, known as \"composition\", the Desmonds' military forces were limited by law to just 20 horsemen; their tenants were made to pay rent to them rather than supply military service or quarter their soldiers. Perhaps the biggest winner of the first Desmond Rebellion was the Earl of Ormonde, who established himself as the most powerful lord in the south of Ireland due to siding with the English crown.\n\nAll of the local chiefs had submitted by the end of the rebellion. The methods used to suppress it provoked lingering resentment, especially among the Irish mercenaries; \"gall óglaigh\" or \"gallowglass\" as the English termed them, who had rallied to FitzMaurice. William Drury, Lord President of Munster from 1576, executed around 700 of these men in the years after the rebellion.\n\nIn the aftermath of the uprising, Gaelic customs such as Brehon Laws, Irish dress, bardic poetry and the maintaining of \"private armies\" were again outlawed and suppressed – things that were deeply valued in traditional Irish society. FitzMaurice had emphasised the Gaelic character of the rebellion, wearing Irish dress, speaking only Irish and referring to himself as the \"taoiseach\" of the Geraldines. Irish landowners continued to be threatened by the arrival of English colonists to settle on land confiscated from the Irish. All of these factors meant that, when FitzMaurice returned from Europe to start a new rebellion, plenty of people in Munster were willing to join him.\n\nIn late 1569 the Catholic Northern Rebellion, broke out in England, but was crushed. This and the Desmond Rebellion caused Pope Pius V to issue \"Regnans in Excelsis\", a bull excommunicating Elizabeth and depriving her of the allegiance of her Catholic subjects. Elizabeth's regime had previously accepted Catholic worship in private; now it suppressed organised Catholicism savagely.\n\nThe second Desmond rebellion was sparked when James FitzMaurice FitzGerald launched an invasion of Munster in 1579. During his exile in Europe he had declared himself as a soldier of the counter-reformation, arguing that since the Pope's excommunication of Elizabeth I Irish Catholics did not owe loyalty to a heretic monarch. The Pope granted FitzMaurice an indulgence and supplied him with troops and money. FitzMaurice landed at Smerwick, near Dingle (modern County Kerry) on 18 July 1579 with a small force of Spanish and Italian troops. He was joined on 1 August by John of Desmond, a brother of the earl, who had a large following among his kinsmen and the disaffected swordsmen of Munster. Other Gaelic clans and Old English families also joined in the rebellion.\n\nFitzMaurice was killed in a skirmish with the Clanwilliam Burkes on 18 August, and John FitzGerald assumed leadership of the rebellion.\nGerald, the Earl of Desmond, initially resisted the call of the rebels and tried to remain neutral but gave in once the authorities had proclaimed him a traitor. He joined the rebellion by sacking the towns of Youghal (on 13 November) and Kinsale, and devastated the country of the English and their allies.\n\nIn the summer of 1580 English troops under William Pelham and locally raised Irish forces under the Earl of Ormonde retook the south coast, destroyed the lands of the Desmonds and their allies and killed their tenants. They captured Carrigafoyle, the principal Desmond castle at the mouth of the Shannon at Easter 1580, cutting off the Geraldine forces from the rest of the country and prevented a landing of foreign troops into the main Munster ports.\n\nIn July 1580 the rising spread to Leinster, under the leadership of Fiach MacHugh O'Byrne and his client the Pale lord James Eustace, 3rd Viscount Baltinglass. They ambushed and massacred a large English force under the Lord Deputy of Ireland Lord Grey de Wilton at the battle of Glenmalure on 25 August.\n\nOn 10 September 1580, 600 papal troops landed at Smerwick in Kerry to support the rebellion. They were besieged in a fort at Dún an Óir. They surrendered after two days of bombardment and were then massacred. Through the relentless scorched-earth tactics of the English, who killed animals and razed crops and homes to deprive the Irish of any food or shelter, the rebellion was crushed by mid-1581. By May 1581, most of the minor rebels and FitzGerald allies in Munster and Leinster had accepted Elizabeth I's offer of a general pardon. John of Desmond was killed north of Cork in early 1582.\n\nThe Geraldine earl was pursued by English forces until the end. From 1581 to 1583, his supporters evaded capture in the mountains of Kerry. On 2 November 1583 the earl was hunted down and killed near Tralee in Kerry by the O'Moriarty family. The clan chief, Maurice, received 1,000 pounds of silver and a pension of 20 pounds a year from the English government for Desmond's head, which was sent to Queen Elizabeth. Desmond's body was displayed on the walls of Cork. (Maurice O'Moriarty ended his life by being hanged at Tyburn.)\n\nAfter three years of scorched earth warfare by the English, Munster was racked by famine. In April 1582, the provost marshal of Munster, Sir Warham St Leger, estimated that 30,000 people had died of hunger in the previous six months. Plague broke out in Cork city, to where the country people had fled to avoid the fighting. People continued to die of starvation and plague long after the war had ended, and it is estimated that by 1589 one-third of the province's population had died. Grey was recalled by Elizabeth I for his excessive brutality. Two famous accounts tell us of the devastation of Munster after the Desmond rebellion. The first is from the Gaelic Annals of the Four Masters:\n\nThe second is from the View of the Present State of Ireland, written by English poet Edmund Spenser, who fought in the campaign, approved the scorched earth method, and suggested it as a useful method of enforcing English ways:\n\nThe wars of the 1570s and 1580s marked a watershed in Ireland. The southern Geraldine axis of power was annihilated, and Munster was \"planted\" with English colonists given land confiscated from those who fought for their country. After a survey begun in 1584 by Sir Valentine Browne, Surveyor General of Ireland, the thousands of English soldiers and administrators who had been imported to suppress the rebellion were given land in the Munster Plantation of Desmond's confiscated estates. The Elizabethan conquest of Ireland followed the subsequent Nine Years War in Ulster and the extension of plantation policy to other parts of the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1022092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022092", "title": "Elephants' graveyard", "text": "Elephants' graveyard\n\nAn elephants' graveyard (also written elephant graveyard or elephant's graveyard) is a mythical place where, according to legend, older elephants instinctively direct themselves when they reach a certain age. They would then die there alone, far from the group.\n\nSeveral theories are given about the myth's origin. One theory involves people finding groups of elephant skeletons together, or observing old elephants and skeletons in the same habitat. Others suggest the term may spring from group die-offs, such as one excavated in Saxony-Anhalt, which had 27 \"Palaeoloxodon antiquus\" skeletons. In that particular case, the tusks of the skeletons were missing, which indicated either hunters killed a group of elephants in one spot, or else opportunistic scavengers removed the tusks from a natural die-off.\n\nOther theories focus on elephant behaviour during lean times, suggesting starving elephants gather in places where finding food is easier, and subsequently die there.\n\nThe myth was popularised in films such as \"Trader Horn\" and MGM's Tarzan movies, in which groups of greedy explorers attempt to locate the elephants' graveyard, on the fictional Mutia Escarpment, in search of its riches of ivory. Osamu Tezuka's \"Kimba the White Lion\" episode \"A Friend in Deed\" centred around it.\n\nMore recently, the 1994 Disney animated film \"The Lion King\"; as well as the Broadway/West End musical adaptation; referred to the motif. In \"Fearful Symmetry,\" an episode from \"The X-Files\" which revolves around a mysterious invisible elephant, a character refers to the mythical concept as fact.\n\nProlific elephant hunter Walter \"Karamojo\" Bell discounted the idea of the elephant's graveyard, stating that bones and \"tusks were still lying about in the bush where they had lain for years\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1193669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1193669", "title": "ExoMars", "text": "ExoMars\n\nExoMars (Exobiology on Mars) is a two-part astrobiology project to search for evidence of life on Mars, a joint mission of the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian space agency Roscosmos. The first part, launched in 2016, placed a trace gas research and communication satellite into Mars orbit and released a stationary experimental lander (which crashed). The second part is planned to launch in 2020, and to land the ExoMars rover on the surface, supporting a science mission that is expected to last into 2022 or beyond.\n\nExoMars goals are to search for signs of past life on Mars, investigate how the Martian water and geochemical environment varies, investigate atmospheric trace gases and their sources and by doing so demonstrate the technologies for a future Mars sample-return mission. The mission will search for ancient biosignatures of Martian life, employing several spacecraft elements to be sent to Mars on two launches.\n\nThe ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO) and a test stationary lander called \"Schiaparelli\" were launched on 14 March 2016. TGO entered Mars orbit on 19 October 2016 and will proceed to map the sources of methane () and other trace gases present in the Martian atmosphere that could be evidence for possible biological or geological activity. The TGO features four instruments and will also act as a communications relay satellite. The \"Schiaparelli\" experimental lander separated from TGO on 16 October and was maneuvered to land in Meridiani Planum, but it crashed on the surface of Mars. The landing was designed to test new key technologies to safely deliver the 2020 rover mission. \n\nIn 2020, a Roscosmos-built lander (ExoMars 2020 surface platform) is to deliver the ESA-built ExoMars Rover to the Martian surface. The rover will also include some Roscosmos built instruments. The second mission operations and communications will be led by ALTEC's Rover Control Centre in Italy.\n\nSince its inception, ExoMars has gone through several phases of planning with various proposals for landers, orbiters, launch vehicles, and international cooperation planning, such as the defunct 2009 Mars Exploration Joint Initiative (MEJI) with the United States.\nOriginally, the ExoMars concept consisted of a large robotic rover being part of ESA's Aurora Programme as a \"Flagship mission\" and was approved by the European Space Agency ministers in December 2005. Originally conceived as a rover with a stationary ground station, ExoMars was planned to launch in 2011 aboard a Russian Soyuz Fregat rocket.\n\nExoMars begun in 2001 as part of the ESA Aurora program for the human exploration of Mars. That initial vision called for rover in 2009 and later a Mars sample-return mission. Another mission intended to support the Aurora program is a Phobos sample return mission. In December 2005, the different nations composing the ESA gave approval to the Aurora program and to ExoMars. Aurora is an optional program and each state is allowed to decide which part of the program they want to be involved in and to what extent (e.g. how much funds they want to put into the program). The Aurora program was initiated in 2002 with support of twelve nations: Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada\n\nIn 2007, Canadian-based technology firm MacDonald Dettwiler and Associates Ltd. (MDA) was selected for a one-million-euro contract with EADS Astrium of Britain to design and build a prototype Mars rover chassis for the European Space Agency. Astrium was also contracted to design the final rover.\n\nOn July 2009 NASA and ESA signed the Mars Exploration Joint Initiative, which proposed to utilise an Atlas rocket launcher instead of a Soyuz, which significantly altered the technical and financial setting of the ExoMars mission. On 19 June, when the rover was still planned to piggyback the Mars Trace Gas Orbiter, it was reported that a prospective agreement would require that ExoMars lose enough weight to fit aboard the Atlas launch vehicle with a NASA orbiter.\n\nThen the mission was combined with other projects to a multi-spacecraft mission divided over two Atlas V-launches: the ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO) was merged into the project, piggybacking a stationary meteorological lander slated for launch in January 2016. It was also proposed to include a second rover, the MAX-C.\n\nIn August 2009 it was announced that the Russian Federal Space Agency (now Roscosmos) and ESA had signed a contract that included cooperation on two Mars exploration projects: Russia's Fobos-Grunt project and ESA's ExoMars. Specifically, ESA secured a Russian Proton rocket as a \"backup launcher\" for the ExoMars rover, which would include Russian-made parts.\n\nOn 17 December 2009, the ESA governments gave their final approval to a two-part Mars exploration mission to be conducted with NASA, confirming their commitment to spend €850 million ($1.23 billion) on missions in 2016 and 2018.\n\nIn April 2011, because of a budgeting crisis, a proposal was announced to cancel the accompanying MAX-C rover, and fly only one rover in 2018 that would be larger than either of the vehicles in the paired concept. One suggestion was that the new vehicle would be built in Europe and carry a mix of European and U.S. instruments. NASA would provide the rocket to deliver it to Mars and provide the sky crane landing system. Despite the proposed reorganisation, the goals of the 2018 mission opportunity would have stayed broadly the same.\n\nUnder the FY2013 Budget President Obama released on 13 February 2012, NASA terminated its participation in ExoMars due to budgetary cuts in order to pay for the cost overruns of the James Webb Space Telescope. With NASA's funding for this project completely cancelled, most of these plans had to be restructured.\n\nOn 14 March 2013, representatives of the ESA and the Russian space agency (Roscosmos), signed a deal in which Russia became a full partner. Roscosmos will supply both missions with Proton launch vehicles with Briz-M upper stages and launch services, as well as an additional entry, descent and landing module for the rover mission in 2018. Under the agreement, Roscosmos was granted three asking conditions:\n\nESA had originally cost-capped the ExoMars projects at €1 billion, (USD 1.3 billion) but the withdrawal of the U.S. space agency (NASA) and the consequent reorganisation of the ventures will probably add several hundred million euros to the sum so far raised. So on March 2012, member states instructed the agency's executive to look at how this shortfall could be made up. One possibility is that other science activities within ESA may have to step back to make ExoMars a priority. On September 2012 it was announced that new ESA members, Poland and Romania will be contributing up to €70 million to the ExoMars mission. ESA has not ruled out a possible partial return of NASA to the 2018 portion of ExoMars, albeit in a relatively minor role.\n\nRussia's financing of ExoMars could be partially covered by insurance payments of 1.2 billion rubles ($40.7 million USD) for the loss of Fobos-Grunt, and reassigning funds for a possible coordination between the Mars-NET and ExoMars projects. On 25 January 2013, Roscosmos fully funded the development of the scientific instruments to be flown on the first launch, the Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO).\n\nAs of March 2014, the lead builder of the ExoMars rover, the British division of Airbus Defence and Space, had started procuring critical components, but the 2018 rover mission was still short by more than 100 million euros, or $138 million. The wheels and suspension system are paid by the Canadian Space Agency and are being manufactured by MDA Corporation in Canada.\n\nIn January 2016 it was announced that the financial situation of the 2018 mission 'might' require a 2-year delay. Italy is the largest contributor to ExoMars, and the UK is the mission's second-largest financial backer.\n\nThe rover was scheduled to launch in 2018 and land on Mars in early 2019, but in May 2016 ESA announced that the launch would occur in 2020 due to delays in European and Russian industrial activities and deliveries of the scientific payload.\n\nThe spacecraft containing ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO) and \"Schiaparelli\" launched on 14 March 2016 (Livestream began at 08:30 GMT [03:30 AM EDT]). Four rocket burns occurred in the following 10 hours before the descent module and orbiter were released. Signal from the Orbiter was successfully received at 21:29 GMT of the same day, which confirmed that the launch was fully successful and the spacecraft is on its way to Mars. Shortly after separation from the probes, the Briz-M upper booster stage possibly exploded a few kilometers away, however apparently without damaging the orbiter or lander. The spacecraft, which housed the Trace Gas Orbiter and the \"Schiaparelli\" lander, took its nominal orbit towards Mars and was seemingly in working order. Over the next two weeks, controllers continued to check and commission its systems, including the power, communications, startrackers, and guidance and navigation system.\n\nThe scientific objectives, in order of priority, are:\n\nThe technological objectives to develop are:\n\nExoMars is a joint programme of the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian space agency Roscosmos. According to current plans, the ExoMars project will comprise four spacecraft: two stationary landers, one orbiter and one rover. All mission elements will be sent in two launches using two heavy-lift Proton rockets.\n\nThe two landing modules and the rover will be sterilised in order not to contaminate the planet with Earth life forms. Cleaning will require a combination of sterilising methods, including ionising radiation, UV radiation, and chemicals such as ethyl and isopropyl alcohol. \"(see Planetary protection)\".\n\nThe Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO) is a Mars telecommunications orbiter and atmospheric gas analyzer mission that was launched on 14 March 2016. The spacecraft arrived in the Martian orbit in October 2016. It delivered the ExoMars Schiaparelli EDM lander and then proceed to map the sources of methane on Mars and other gases, and in doing so, help select the landing site for the ExoMars rover to be launched in 2020. The presence of methane in Mars' atmosphere is intriguing because its likely origin is either present-day life or geological activity. Upon the arrival of the rover in 2021, the orbiter would be transferred into a lower orbit where it would be able to perform analytical science activities as well as provide the Schiaparelli EDM lander and ExoMars rover with telecommunication relay. NASA provided an \"Electra\" telecommunications relay and navigation instrument to ensure communications between probes and rovers on the surface of Mars and controllers on Earth. The TGO would continue serving as a telecommunication relay satellite for future landed missions until 2022.\n\nThe Entry, Descent and Landing Demonstrator Module (EDM) called \"Schiaparelli\", was intended to provide the European Space Agency (ESA) and Russia's Roscosmos with the technology for landing on the surface of Mars. It was launched together with the ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO) on 14 March 2016 and was scheduled to land softly on 19 October 2016. No signal indicating a successful landing was received, and on 21 October 2016 NASA released a Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter showing what appears to be the lander crash site. The lander was equipped with a non-rechargeable electric battery with enough power for four sols. The soft landing should have taken place on Meridiani Planum during the dust storm season, which would have provided a unique chance to characterise a dust-loaded atmosphere during entry and descent, and to conduct surface measurements associated with a dust-rich environment.\n\nOnce on the surface, it was to measure the wind speed and direction, humidity, pressure and surface temperature, and determine the transparency of the atmosphere. It carried a surface payload, based on the proposed meteorological DREAMS (Dust Characterisation, Risk Assessment, and Environment Analyser on the Martian Surface) package, consists of a suite of sensors to measure the wind speed and direction (MetWind), humidity (MetHumi), pressure (MetBaro), surface temperature (MarsTem), the transparency of the atmosphere (Optical Depth Sensor; ODS), and atmospheric electrification (Atmospheric Radiation and Electricity Sensor; MicroARES). The DREAMS payload was to function for 2 or 3 days as an environmental station for the duration of the EDM surface mission after landing.\n\nThe second mission, scheduled for launch in July 2020, will have an 1800 kg Russian-built landing platform system derived from the 2016 Schiaparelli EDM lander, to place the ExoMars rover on the surface of Mars. This lander platform will be built 80% by the Russian company Lavochkin, and 20% by ESA. Lavochkin will produce most of the landing system's hardware, while ESA will handle elements such as the guidance, radar and navigation systems. Lavochkin's current landing strategy is to use two parachutes; one will open while the module is still moving at supersonic speed, and another will deploy once the probe has been slowed down to subsonic velocity. The heat shield will eventually fall away from the entry capsule to allow the ExoMars rover, riding its retro-rocket-equipped lander, to come for a soft landing on legs or struts. The surface platform lander will then deploy ramps for the rover to drive down.\n\nCritics have stated that while Russian expertise may be sufficient to provide a launch vehicle, it does not currently extend to the critical requirement of a landing system for Mars.\n\nAfter landing on Mars in 2021, the rover will descend from the platform via a ramp. The platform is expected to image the landing site, monitor the climate, investigate the atmosphere, analyse the radiation environment, study the distribution of any subsurface water at the landing site, and perform geophysical investigations of the internal structure of Mars. Following a March 2015 request for the contribution of scientific instruments for the landing system, there will be 13 instruments. Examples of the instruments on the lander include the package, the METEO meteorological package, the MAIGRET magnetometer, and the LaRa radio-science experiment.\n\nThe platform is expected to operate for at least one Earth year, and its instruments will be powered by solar arrays.\n\nThe ExoMars rover will land in 2021 and is designed to navigate autonomously across the Martian surface.\n\nInstrumentation will consist of the exobiology laboratory suite, known as \"Pasteur analytical laboratory\" to look for signs of biomolecules and biosignatures from past life. Among other instruments, the rover will also carry a sub-surface core drill to pull up samples for its on-board laboratory. The rover will have a mass of about .\n\nThe ExoMar's rover includes the Pasteur instrument suite, including the Mars Organic Molecule Analyzer (MOMA), MicrOmega-IR, and the Raman Laser Spectrometer (RLS). Examples of external instruments on the rover include:\n\nA primary goal when selecting the rover's landing site is to identify a particular geologic environment, or set of environments, that would support —now or in the past— microbial life. The scientists prefer a landing site with both morphologic and mineralogical evidence for past water. Furthermore, a site with spectra indicating multiple hydrated minerals such as clay minerals is preferred, but it will come down to a balance between engineering constraints and scientific goals.\n\nEngineering constraints call for a flat landing site in a latitude band straddling the equator that is only 30° latitude from top to bottom because the rover is solar-powered and will need best sunlight exposure. The landing module carrying the rover will have a landing ellipse that measures about 105 km by 15 km.\nScientific requirements include landing in an area with 3.6 billion years old sedimentary rocks that are a record of the past wet habitable environment. The year before launch, the European Space Agency will make the final decision. By March 2014, the long list was:\n\n\nFollowing additional review by an ESA-appointed panel, four sites, all of which are located relatively near the equator, were formally recommended in October 2014 for further detailed analysis:\n\n\nOn 21 October 2015, Oxia Planum was reported to be the preferred landing site for the ExoMars rover. \n\nThe delay of the rover mission to 2020 from 2018 meant that Oxia Planum was no longer the only favourable landing site due to changes in the possible landing ellipse. Both Mawrth Vallis and Aram Dorsum, surviving candidates from the previous selection, could be reconsidered. ESA convened further workshops to re-evaluate the three remaining options and in March 2017 selected two sites to study in detail;\n\n\nThe final selection is scheduled to occur approximately a year before launch.\n\n"}
{"id": "2561462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2561462", "title": "Feis", "text": "Feis\n\nA Feis () or Fèis () is a traditional Gaelic arts and culture festival. The plural forms are feiseanna () and fèisean (). The term \"feis\" is commonly used referring to Irish dance competitions and, in Scotland, to immersive teaching courses, specialising in traditional music and culture. In Scottish Gaelic, the accent is important because there is a difference of meaning and pronunciation between 'feis' and 'fèis' - the word 'feis' means sexual intercourse.\n\nIn Ancient Ireland communities placed great importance on local festivals, where Gaels could come together in song, dance, music, theatre and sport. The largest of these was the \"Aonach\", the great festival at Tara, which was then the city of Ireland's \"Ardrí\", or \"High King\".\n\nThese feiseanna were a rich opportunity for storytellers to reach a large audience, and often warriors would recount their exploits in combat, clansmen would trace family genealogies, and bards and balladeers would lead the groups in legends, stories, and song.\n\nThese gatherings eventually gave rise to athletic and sporting competitions, including horse- and chariot-racing, as well as feats of strength and endurance.\n\nToday the Feis has experienced something of a rebirth, both for ethnic Gaels and for enthusiasts of the Gaelic culture in Ireland and Scotland, as well as throughout the world.\n\nFeiseanna are generally centred on Irish dancing.\n\nWhen competitors begin to dance in these competitions, they traditionally wear a dance costume decided on by their dance school. When these students reach a competition level decided on by the dance school, they have can design or choose a costume of their own. Girls wear ornate dresses with long sleeves and short skirt. The skirt panels are sometimes stiffened with cardboard inserts, but ballet-like \"soft-skirts\" have become the norm. They usually wear their hair curled, in a wig, in a bun wig or just down. Boys usually wear a dress shirt, tie and/or vest, and dress pants or a kilt.\n\nThe most important Feiseanna in Irish Dance are the \"Oireachtas\"(pronounced oh-rok-tis) competitions. There are regional Oireachtas competitions in Eastern and Western Canada, Northeast, Midwest, Southern and Western US, plus locations in Europe (Especially GB and Ireland) and Australia. Regional Oireachtas are open only to dancers from their defined region, and serve as qualifying competitions for National and World Oireachtas. Important National Oireachtas include North American Nationals (NANs), All Irelands, and All Great Britains.\n\nThe most prestigious competition for top dancers is the Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne (the World Championships), held each Easter Week and in a different city each year.\n\nFeiseanna are held all over the world, Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland, England, Scotland, Wales, all over Europe, South Africa, Australia, the USA and Canada. Feiseanna are held by all the organisations which oversee Irish dance, with most feisanna being confined to only those dancers who take lessons with a teacher certified by that particular organisation. However, there are a number of organisations (primarily CRN and WIDA along with its affiliated organisations) who organise 'open feisanna', which are open to any dancer regardless of their teacher's organisation (or if they are self-taught). The organisers of 'closed feiseanna' frown upon dancers from their organisation competing at such open competitions, and there are rumours that organisations may sanction competitors/teachers found to participate in such open feiseanna. This, however, has never been confirmed by any organisations, teachers or dancers and could be construed as a way to keep teachers/dancers within one organisation.\n\nThere are different levels of competition offered at all feiseanna, however the number of levels, and the names of each level vary by country (and even region within that country). Competitions are offered for both solo and team dancing, and are separated based upon the age of the competitors. At some competitions, ceili categories are offered for teams of 4 or 8 dancers, the ceili dances performed must be done so as espoused in the book 'Ar Rince Foirne' which lays down 30 of the traditional Irish ceili dances. Competitions for teams of 2, 3 and 8–16 dancers, called figure dances, may also be offered, choreography for these dances is made up by the teacher and/or dancers themselves, though must adhere to certain rules and parameters, a notable rule for figure dances being that 'any move in which a dancer is thrown across the stage is prohibited'.\n\nThe commonly competed dances are reel, slip jig, light jig and single jig, in soft shoe, and heavy/treble jig and hornpipe in hard shoe. Treble reels (hard shoe reels) may be offered as 'special dances', as may traditional set dances and special trophy dances in soft and hard shoe in addition to the regular competition. Grade dances are when competitors dance, are judged and are placed in each dance separately. Championships consist of three rounds, an initial soft (reel or slip jig) round and a heavy (heavy/treble jig or hornpipe) round danced by all entrants, the scores from the soft and heavy round are combined, and a percentage (usually circa 50%) of dancers with the highest combined score dance a third round of a modern set dance, the winner is the dancer with the highest combined score across all three rounds. Championships must be judged by a minimum of three judges, preliminary championships in the UK may offer a recall of the heavy dance not danced in the initial heavy round instead of a modern set dance upon recall. Modern set dances are of the teacher and/or dancers own choreography and are danced to a specific set dance chosen from a list compiled by the overseeing organisation. Modern set dances are rarely offered to dance outside of championship competitions, though may occasionally be present as a 'special' competition. Slip jig is only danced by girls, with the exception of male dancers from the CRN organisation.\n\nIn CLRG affiliated competitions in the USA, Canada and Mexico these levels of competition are offered: beginner, advanced beginner, novice, open/prizewinner, preliminary championship, and championship. The names of categories vary by region. In some regions of the USA there are also special categories for adults, to be eligible the adult dancers must not have competed in the standard age-defined competitions for a stipulated amount of time (usually circa 4 years). Some feiseanna in the US also offer a 'first feis' category for the youngest dancers, to give them a more gentle introduction into the world of competitions.\n\nIn the UK, Europe, Australia and New Zealand almost all of the organisations separate the competitions into beginner (sometimes referred to as novice), primary, intermediate and open levels. In recent years a preliminary championship level has begun to be introduced at many feiseanna, unlike in the US this level is not compulsory, and is an optional level to bridge the gap between placing out of intermediate and entering the open level. Apart from in the younger age groups, the majority of feiseanna in the UK operate only an open championship competition, rather than open grade dances.\n\nThe most common way for dancers to advance between levels is through winning a dance when there are 6 or more competitors in the competition, although this depends on organisation.\n\nHowever, in many regions a dancer can only win 3 competitions with fewer than 6 dancers before they must move up to the next level. Teachers may also choose to move a dancer up a level. Once a dancer has met the requirements to move up a level they are no longer allowed to compete at the lower level of competition, however in the UK if a dancer in the open level has not placed in the top 5 for a period of more than a year, they may return to the intermediate level of competition.\n\nCompetitions for each individual dance are scored on a 100-point system, which indicate the subjective opinion of each different judge. Most scores seem to be in the 60–95 point range, and can vary wildly depending upon the judge. However, each competition is judged in its entirety by the same judge(s), so what really matters is the relative placing of each dancer.\n\nPlacing of dancers\nFor Individual dance competitions, placing is based entirely on a single judges subjective opinion. Ties are common, and can result in slightly skewed final results. For instance, a tie at 2nd place would result in the 4th best dancer receiving 3rd place (1st, 2nd, 2nd, 3rd, instead of 1st, 2nd, 2nd, 4th).\n\nPreliminary and Open Championship competitions are judged by at least 3 adjudicators (Judges) and at regional, national and world \"Oireachtas\" competitions, there can be 5 or more. Because of the subjective nature of judging, the varying scales used by each judge, and fact that the scores of 3 dances must be combined to determine overall placing, an additional [Irish Points] method of scoring is used. Each individual adjudicator derives from their own scoring, a final placing. Ties in these placings are discouraged but do happen. Each of the placings from 1st to 50th are assigned an Irish Point Value, which when combined with the other adjudicators, determines final placing. The Irish Points per individually judged place are vaguely logarithmic, in that 1st == 100 points, 2nd == 75, 3rd == 65 etc., until 50th == 1. This gives higher marks by single judges more weight than average marks by more judges.\n\nComplete List of Irish Points:\n\nIn a 3 judge competition it is almost impossible to Not get first with 2 judges agreeing that 1st place is warranted, since with 200 Irish points, the 3rd judge would need to place a dance 7th or worse to overcome the 25 point bonus between 1st and 2nd. This scoring method helps ensure that a single bad adjudicator does not unfairly ruin the results. At a standard 3 judge Feis competition, a unanimous 1st place score is 300 (100 from each judge). At Regional Oireachtas competitions, there are 5 judges who rate all three dance programs, creating the possibility of a perfect score of 500. At the CLRG World Championship Oireachtas (Oireachtas Rince na Cruinne), there are 7 judges, which means that 700 would be perfect if all 7 judges agree that one dancer performed the best.\n\nMost schools in North America, are registered with An Coimisiun le Rince Gaelacha and its subsidiary the Irish Dance Teacher's Association of North America. However WIDA and Rince Tuatha Nua are also present as are CRN.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34293492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34293492", "title": "Guangdong National Language Regulations", "text": "Guangdong National Language Regulations\n\nThe Guangdong National Language Regulations (廣東省國家通用語言文字規定) is a set of laws enacted by the Guangdong provincial government in the People's Republic of China in 2012 to promote the use of Standard Mandarin Chinese in broadcast and print media at the expense of the local standard Cantonese and other related dialects. It has also been labelled a \"pro-Mandarin, anti-Cantonese\" legislation (废粤推普 or 推普废粤). The law was signed and came into effect on March 1, 2012.\n\nThe regulations require the entire Guangdong province to broadcast in Putonghua Mandarin. Dialect programs and channels can be broadcast if approved by the national or provincial government. In addition, signs of service stores are to be written in simplified Chinese except when in historical sites, per-registered logos and other exceptions or as approved by state.\n\nGuangdong provincial governor Zhu Xiaodan (朱小丹) signed and set the date of the law to take effect on March 1, 2012. The requirement forces all government workers, teachers, conference holders, broadcasters, and TV staff to use Mandarin only. All state-run items involving brands, seals, documents, websites, signs, and trade names are not to use Traditional Chinese characters or Variant Chinese characters. People who do not follow the law will be punished accordingly, as the new law is mandatory.\n\nThe signing has triggered massive negative responses in Guangzhou, Hong Kong and Macau. There were talks of raising movements. The law is said to have effects equal to the elimination of the autochthonous Cantonese culture. \nOn December 24, the Guangdong government held a press conference stating that the regulation does not in fact ban Cantonese; one official stating that such a ban will never occur. Currently, the Guangdong province has two channels approved to broadcast entirely in Cantonese, while various other channels and radio stations have dialect programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1074109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1074109", "title": "Heinz Leymann", "text": "Heinz Leymann\n\nHeinz Leymann (17 July 1932 in Wolfenbüttel, Germany - 1999 in Stockholm) was a German-born Swedish academic, famous for his studies on mobbing among humans. He held a degree in pedagogical psychology, and another one in psychiatry and worked as a psychologist. He was a professor at Umeå University.\n\nLeymann, who became a Swedish citizen in the mid-1950s, was awarded his Ph.D. in pedagogical psychology from Stockholm University in 1978. He then went on to get another research doctorate (\"doktor i medicinsk vetenskap\", \"doctor of medical science,\" typically translated into English as Ph.D.) in psychiatry in 1990 from Umeå University. Somewhat unusually, his doctorate in psychiatry was based on his clinical background as a psychologist; he did not go through medical training.\n\nLeymann pioneered research into mobbing in the 1980s. His initial research in the area was based on detailed case studies of a number of nurses who had committed or tried to commit suicide due to events at the workplace. He developed the Leymann Inventory of Psychological Terror (LIPT), a questionnaire of 45 mobbing actions.\n\nAlthough he preferred the term bullying in the context of school children, some have come to regard mobbing as a form of group bullying. As professor and practicing psychologist, Leymann also noted one of the side-effects of mobbing is post-traumatic stress disorder and is frequently misdiagnosed.\n\nAmong researchers who have built on Leymann's work are: \n\n\nDuffy, M., & Sperry, L. (2012). \"Mobbing: Causes, Consequences, and Solutions\". New York: Oxford University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "10344307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10344307", "title": "Herbert Ihlefeld", "text": "Herbert Ihlefeld\n\nHerbert Ihlefeld (1 June 1914 – 8 August 1995) was a German \"Luftwaffe\" military aviator during the Spanish Civil War and World War II, a fighter ace listed with 130 enemy aircraft shot down in over 1,000 combat missions. He claimed seven victories in the Spanish Civil War, and during World War II, 67 on the Eastern Front and 56 on the Western Front, including 15 four-engined bombers and 26 Supermarine Spitfires. He survived being shot down eight times during his 1,000 combat missions.\n\nBorn in Pinnow, Ihlefeld volunteered for military service in the \"Reichswehr\" of Nazi Germany in 1933. Initially serving in the \"Heer\" (Army), he transferred to the \"Luftwaffe\" (Air Force) in 1935. Following flight training, he volunteered for service with the Condor Legion during the Spanish Civil War where he was assigned to \"Jagdgruppe\" 88 (J/88—88th Fighter Group). From February–July 1938, he claimed nine aerial victories, two remained unconfirmed. For his service in Spain he was awarded the Spanish Cross in Gold with Swords.\n\nFollowing service in Spain, Ihlefeld was posted to \"Lehrgeschwader\" 2 (LG 2—2nd Demonstration Wing. With this unit he participated in the Invasion of Poland and Battle of France. During the height of the Battle of Britain on 13 September 1940, he was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross after 21 aerial victories in World War II. Ihlefeld, who had been appointed \"Gruppenkommandeur\" (group commander) of I. \"Gruppe\" of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 77 (JG 77—77th Fighter Wing) in September 1940, fought in the aerial battles of the Balkan Campaign. During Operation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union, he was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves on 27 June 1941. Ten months later, following his 101st aerial victory of the war, Ihlefeld was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves and Swords on 24 April 1942.\n\nOn 22 June 1942, Ihlefeld was appointed \"Geschwaderkommodore\" (wing commander) of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 52 (JG 52—52nd Fighter Wing). He was injured in combat on 22 July 1942 and after convalescence, he was given command of \"Jagdfliegerschule\" 3 (3rd Fighter Pilot School). On 21 July 1943, he was tasked with leadership of a high flying de Havilland Mosquito intercept unit called \"Jagdgeschwader\" 25 (JG 25—25th Fighter Wing) in Defense of the Reich. This unit failed to achieve its objective and Ihlefeld was assigned to the \"Stab\" (headquarters unit) of the 30th Fighter Division. On 20 May 1944, he took command of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 1 \"Oesau\" (JG  1—1st Fighter Wing) and participated in Operation Bodenplatte. Ihlefeld died on 8 August 1995 in Wennigsen, Lower Saxony.\n\nIhlefeld was born on 1 June 1914 in Pinnow, at the time in the Province of Pomerania, a province of the Kingdom of Prussia, the son of a farm laborer. Following a machinist vocational education, he volunteered for military service in the \"Reichsheer\" on 1 April 1933. As a \"Grenadier\", he was first posted to \"Infanterie-Regiment\" 5 (5th Infantry Regiment) based in Stettin and in 1934 was posted to the aviation technical school at Jüterbog. In March 1937, he was assigned to the I. \"Gruppe\" (1st group) of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 132 \"Richthofen\" (JG 32—132nd Fighter Wing).\nWith outbreak of the Spanish Civil War in July 1936, Germany supported the Nationalists and asked for volunteers which organized in the Condor Legion (). \"Unteroffizier\" (Staff Sergeant) Ihlefeld joined 2. \"Staffel\" (2nd squadron) of \"Jagdgruppe\" 88 (J/88—88th Fighter Group) in late 1937. Flying with this unit until July 1938, he claimed nine and was credited with seven aerial victories over Spain and was awarded the Spanish Cross in Gold with Swords (\"Spanienkreuz in Gold mit Schwertern\"). There, he was issued one of the first Messerschmitt Bf 109 B-1's sent to the Condor Legion. A Polikarpov I-16 fighter aircraft shot down on 21 February 1938 was his first aerial victory of the war. On 13 March 1938, Ihlefeld was credited with his second victory, a Polikarpov I-15 biplane fighter aircraft followed by his third, a I-16, on 11 May 1938. A week later, on 18 May, he claimed another I-16, the victory was unconfirmed. A Tupolev SB-2 bomber from a force attacking La Sénia, shot down on 2 June 1938, became his fifth victim. He claimed another unconfirmed victory on 25 June 1938 over a I-16. On 12 July 1938, he was credited with a victory over a I-15. Two I-15s shot down on 15 July 1938 were his last victories in Spain.\n\nOn 1 August 1938, he was assigned to I. (\"Jäger\") \"Gruppe\" (1st fighter group) of \"Lehrgeschwader\" 2 (LG 2—2nd Demonstration Wing), an operational training unit tasked with the evaluation of new types of aircraft and tactics. The unit was later redesignated to I. \"Gruppe\" of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 77 (JG 77—77th Fighter Wing). On 20 August 1938, he was promoted to \"Leutnant\" (second lieutenant).\n\nWorld War II in Europe began on Friday, 1 September 1939, when German forces invaded Poland. Ihlefeld flew his first combat missions over Poland and was awarded the Iron Cross 2nd Class () on 26 September 1939. On 10 May 1940, the Battle of France, the German invasion of France and the Low Countries, began and Ihlefeld claimed his first victory of the war on 29 May 1940. The combat took place at an altitude of near Saint-Quentin during the Battle of Dunkirk (26 May – 4 June 1940), the defense and evacuation of British and allied forces from France to England, on a combat air patrol. On this mission, 11 Messerschmitt Bf 109s encountered two \"Armée de l'air\" (French Air Force) Morane-Saulnier M.S.406 fighter aircraft. Ihlefeld was credited with shooting one of them down at 20:15, the other Morane was credited to \"Hauptmann\" (Captain) Hanns Trübenbach. On 30 June 1940, he was credited with two victories over Bristol Blenheim light bombers shot down at 12:45 and 15:30, his second and third of the war. Although Ihlefeld was unhurt, damage to his Bf 109 E sustained in one of these encounters, resulted in a forced landing near Saint-Omer.\n\nIhlefeld received an early promotion to \"Oberleutnant\" (first lieutenant) on 1 June 1940 followed by his appointment to \"Staffelkapitän\" (squadron leader) of 2 \"Staffel\" in I.(J)/LG 2. He was awarded the Iron Cross 1st Class () on 4 July 1940. On 9 July 1940, I.(J)/LG 2 was tasked with flying escort fighter missions for \"Kampfgeschwader\" 2 (KG 2—2nd Bomber Wing) attacking British shipping in the English Channel. These types of missions were referred to as \"Kanalkampf\" by the Germans and resulted in a series of air battles between the \"Luftwaffe\" and the British Royal Air Force (RAF). On the third mission of the day (16:25 – 17:20), escorting a flight of Dornier Do 17 bombers to their targets, Ihlefeld claimed his fourth victory of the war, a Hawker Hurricane fighter aircraft shot down at 16:30.\n\nOn 10 July 1940, seven RAF bombers attacked the Amiens – Glisy Aerodrome, all of which were shot down by the \"Luftwaffe\". On this day, 47 Do 17 bombers from I. and III. \"Gruppe\" of KG 2, supported by one Messerschmitt Bf 110 heavy fighter and two single-engined fighter \"Gruppen\" attacked British shipping in the English Channel. In the resulting aerial combat, \"Luftwaffe\" pilots initially claimed 23 victories, 10 of these were later confirmed by the \"Luftwaffe\". Actual RAF losses that day were three aircraft shot down, further seven made forced landings and were severely damaged. RAF pilots claimed the destruction of 16 German aircraft, actual losses were four Do 17s and three Bf 110s shot down plus further four damaged aircraft. These events marked the beginning of the Battle of Britain (10 July – 31 October 1940).\n\nOn 11 July 1940, I.(J)/LG 2 was ordered to relocate to Jever in northern Germany. In the following four weeks, the Gruppe received a period of rest and the aircraft were given a maintenance overhaul prior to moving back to the Channel Front, to an airfield at Marck, east of Calais, on 8 August. Adolf Hitler had issued Führer Directive no. 17 (\"Weisung Nr.\" 17) on 1 August 1940; the strategic objective was to engage and defeat the RAF so as to achieve air superiority in preparation for Operation Sea Lion (\"Unternehmen Seelöwe\"), the proposed amphibious invasion of Great Britain. On 13 August 1940, during Operation Eagle Attack (code name \"Adlertag\"), I.(J)/LG 2 was tasked with providing fighter escort for Junkers Ju 87 dive bombers from IV. \"Gruppe\" of \"Lehrgeschwader\" 1 (LG 1—1st Demonstration Wing) and II. \"Gruppe\" of \"Sturzkampfgeschwader\" 1 (StG 1—1st Dive Bomber Wing), destined to attack the RAF airfields at Rochford and Detling. During this mission (16:25 – 17:35), Ihlefeld claimed his fifth victory, a Hurricane. British losses from 16:15 to 16:36 GMT amounted to one Hurricane from No. 43 Squadron whose pilot, Pilot Officer C.A Woods-Scawen bailed out unhurt. Four Hurricanes from No. 56 Squadron were lost—Pilot Officer C.C.O Joubert was slightly wounded, Flying Officer P.F.Mc Davies was badly burned, Flying Officer R.E.P Brooker bailed out unhurt while Sergeant P. Hillwood bailed out and swam to shore. The first two men were shot down over Rochfort.\n\nOn 22 August 1940, I.(J)/LG 2 flew a combat air patrol over Southern England. Taking his total to seven victories, Ihlefeld had claimed two Supermarine Spitfire fighters shot down in the vicinity of Dover. Five Spitfires were lost by Fighter Command on this day. Weather conditions improved over Southern England on 24 August 1940 and I.(J)/LG 2 was ordered to fly a combat air patrol over Kent. The \"Gruppe\" flew three missions that day and claimed ten aerial victories, all of which over Spitfires, two of which were credited to Ihlefeld. Ihlefeld's first victory was claimed at 12:30 and the second at 17:00. Fighter Command lost five Spitfires and one damaged on 24 August. Two losses roughly match Ihlefeld's claim. No. 54 Squadron lost one; Pilot Officer C. Stewart bailed out in the afternoon, the time unknown. Pilot Officer D. Mc Gray was shot down at 11:15 GMT and bailed out of the No. 610 Squadron Spitfire \"X4067\". Both men were shot down near Dover.\n\nOn 30 August 1940, Ihlefeld claimed his tenth victory of the war, another Spitfire probably shot down over the English Channel near Calais. On this day, \"Gruppenkommandeur\" (group commander) of I.(J)/LG 2, \"Hauptmann\" Bernhard Mielke, was killed in action. Later that day, Ihlefeld was appointed his successor as \"Gruppenkommandeur\". The next day, I.(J)/LG 2 flew fighter escort missions for II.(S)/LG 2, the ground attack \"Gruppe\" of LG 2. On two separate missions they attacked the airfield at Biggin Hill on their first mission (10:25 – 11:20), and in the evening Croydon airfield. The German flight believed they encountered Hurricanes from No. 303 Polish Fighter Squadron on the second mission. The Germans claimed four victories, one of which by Ihlefeld, for the loss of two in combat. 303 Squadron, if engaged during this day, suffered no fighters damaged or destroyed on this day. Their likely opponents were from No. 17 Squadron which lost one Hurricane. The pilot Sergeant G.A Steward was unhurt. I./LG 2 lost one Bf 109 destroyed and one sixty percent damaged. \"Oberleutnant\" von Perthes was shot down and killed by Flying Officer T. Bird-Wilson.\n\nOn 2 September 1940, he increased his total to 13 aerial victories, claiming two Spitfires, on a mission against the Hornchurch airfield. No Spitfires were lost in the battle over Hornchrch though two Spitfires belonging to No. 222 Squadron were damaged. Three day later, Detling airfield was the target, and Ihlefeld again claimed two Spitfires shot down. On 6 September, I.(J)/LG 2 escorted \"Erprobungsgruppe\" 210 to various airfields in the greater London area. Again Ihlefeld claimed two victories, two Hurricanes shot down took his total to 17 aerial victories. 19 Hurricanes were destroyed to all causes and two damaged on this date in intensive air battles.\nOn 7 September 1940, I.(J)/LG 2 participated in Operation \"Loge\", 350 bombers escorted by 648 fighters, attacked various targets in the greater London area. Ihlefeld's \"Gruppe\" protected those bombers heading for the docks in the East End of London. On this mission, Ihlefeld claimed a Hurricane shot down at 18:05 and another one at 18:10. 17 Hurricanes were destroyed and 7 damaged this day. Up to 19 of these aircraft were hit or destroyed in the time-frame of the claim. The \"Luftwaffe\" flew another large scale attack on 11 September. In total, 280 bombers, 96 of which headed for London, supported by 750 fighter aircraft, headed for England. Ihlefeld claimed a Spitfire destroyed at 17:05 and a Hurricane at 17:10 that day. This took his total to 21 aerial victories in World War II, for which he was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross () on 13 September 1940. The presentation was made by Hitler personally on 16 September 1940. One day before the presentation, the Battle of Britain Day, Ihlefeld had claimed the 22nd aerial victory, a Hurricane. At 10:00 on 24 September 1940, Ihlefeld engaged Spitfire's in combat over Maidstone, claiming one shot down. There were four Spitfires lost and two damaged in combat on this date. None were shot down at the time of the claim or in this district. Three days later, on a fighter escort to mission to London, he claimed two Hurricanes, taking his total to 25 aerial victories. On this mission, Ihlefeld lost his 1. \"Staffel\" commander, \"Oberleutnant\" Adolf Buhl. Responsible for his loss was \"Fähnrich\" (Officer Candidate) Hans-Joachim Marseille who had abandoned Buhl. Ihlefeld was forced to give Marseille a stern rebuke for his conduct in combat and eventually dismissed Marseille from LG 2. He was promoted to \"Hauptmann\" on 1 October 1940.\n\nThe war of attrition against the RAF had cost I.(J)/LG 2 dearly, and the entire \"Gruppe\" had to be moved back to the home airfield Köln-Butzweilerhof to reform and re-equip on 5 November 1940. From 30 June to end of October 1940, the \"Gruppe\" had claimed 92 aerial victories for the loss of 10 pilots either killed or missing in action, further 4 pilots had been taken prisoner of war. In the same timeframe, 38 aircraft were damaged or lost. I.(J)/LG 2 was ordered back to the Channel Front on 26 December 1940. That day, it flew to the airfield at Calais-Marck and was subordinated to the \"Stab\" (headquarters unit) of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 52 (JG 52—52nd Fighter Wing). Ihlefeld claimed his 26th victory of the war at 15:50 on 17 January 1941 northwest of Boulogne-sur-Mer.\n\nOn 5 February 1941, the RAF began the Circus offensive against the \"Luftwaffe\", a series of attacks flown by heavily escorted bombers targeted the coastal region in northern France. Ihlefeld claimed a Spitfire destroyed at 17:35 on 10 February. The RAF had sent a Circus against various targets in the vicinity of Pas-de-Calais. Four days later, he claimed two Spitfires shot down on a combat air patrol over Ashford and Canterbury. On 26 February 1941, Ihlefeld shot down Sergeant Howard Squire, his 30th victory of the war, in his Spitfire from No. 54 Squadron on Circus No. 5 mission. Twelve Blenheim bombers from No. 139 Squadron had targeted harbor installations at Calais. They were protected by Hurricane and Spitfire fighters from No. 54, No. 74, No. 92, No. 601 and No. 609 Squadron. Squire made a forced landing and was taken prisoner of war. In combat with Spitfires west of Calais, Ihlefeld claimed his 31st victory at 17:20 on 1 March 1941. At 15:45 on 13 March 1941, I.(J)/LG 2 combated Spitfires north of Cap Gris Nez and Ihlefeld again claimed one of his opponents shot down. His next two claims were submitted following combat over Hastings on 19 March. Two Spitfires shot down at 19:08 and 19:10 took his tally to 34 aerial victories. Ihlefeld claimed his last victory on the Channel Front on 25 March 1941. The combat with another Spitfire took place in the vicinity of Dungeness. On 30 March 1941, I.(J)/LG 2 was ordered to relocate to Vienna. At the Channel Front since December 1940, I.(J)/LG 2 had claimed 24 aerial victories for the loss of 3 pilots killed.\n\nThe Balkan Campaign began on 6 April 1941, with multiple objectives. Operation Marita was the codename for the German invasion of Greece, while I.(J)/LG 2 was committed to the invasion of Yugoslavia. Based at Radomir in Bulgaria, the unit was subordinated to \"Generaloberst\" (Colonel General) Wolfram Freiherr von Richthofen's VIII. \"Fliegerkorps\" (8th Air Corps). I.(J)/LG 2 primary targets in this campaign were various \"Jugoslovensko Kraljevsko Ratno Vazduhoplovstvo\" (JKRV—Yugoslav Royal Air Force) airfields in the greater Skopje area. The \"Gruppe\", together with the ground attack unit II.(S)/LG 2, flew five combat missions on the first day of the campaign. During one of these missions, strafing the railway up the Vardar valley and an airfield near Niš, Ihlefeld was shot down in his Bf 109 E-7 (\"Werknummer\" 2057—factory number) by anti-aircraft artillery and was captured by Yugoslavian soldiers. The airfield at Niš was practically deserted and Ihlefeld had been hit by small arms fire and was slightly wounded in the head. While in their custody, he was allegedly severely beaten, and threatened with execution by firing squad. On 14 April 1941, he was rescued by German troops of the 5th Panzer Division after eight days in captivity, and returned to Germany to recover.\n\nThe invasion of Yugoslavia ended when an armistice was signed on 17 April 1941. That day, I.(J)/LG 2 relocated to Ptolemaida, Greece and to Larissa three days later. On 21 April, I.(J)/LG 2 flew missions against the port of Piraeus and Athens . I.(J)/LG 2 then moved to Eleusis on 27 April. The Battle of Greece ended on 30 April 1941 and the \"Gruppe\" was granted a period of rest which ended on 2 May 1941. In preparation for the Battle of Crete (20 May – 1 June 1941), I.(J)/LG 2 flew reconnaissance missions over Crete on 13 May 1941. Missions against Crete were flown from an airfield at Molaoi. One day later, the unit flew its first ground attack mission against various targets. On 22 May 1941, I.(J)/LG 2 successfully attacked off of Crete, damaging her severely. Ihlefeld was credited with his only aerial victory over Crete on 26 May 1941. His 36th victory was claimed over Maleme against a Hurricane fighter. Actions over Crete ended for I.(J)/LG 2 on 31 May 1941. By this date, the \"Gruppe\" had claimed six aerial victories in this campaign. I.(J)/LG 2 was then withdrawn and relocated to Belgrad in preparation for Operation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union.\n\nOn 18 June 1941, I.(J)/LG 2 was moved to Bucharest and placed under the command of JG 77. The \"Geschwader\" was located in the sector of \"Heeresgruppe Süd\" (Army Group South). Three days later, I.(J)/LG 2 moved to Roman. That evening, the pilots and ground crews were briefed of the upcoming invasion of the Soviet Union, which opened the Eastern Front. At 3:20 on 22 June 1941, 70 Bf 109s of JG 77 and I.(J)/LG 2 crossed into Soviet airspace and attacked airfields and provided fighter protection for III. \"Gruppe\" of \"Kampfgeschwader\" 27 (KG 27—27th Bomber Wing). Ihlefeld claimed his first two victories, both SB-2 bombers, on the Eastern Front on 23 June 1941. JG 77 and I.(J)/LG 2 flew seven combat missions that day. On the first mission of the day, 34 Bf 109 provided fighter escort for two \"Gruppen\" of KG 27 in support of the advancing German ground forces. At 5:50, Ihlefeld claimed his 37th victory of the war. On the seventh mission, which began at 19:10, he claimed the second bomber in the area of Chernivtsi. Two Ilyushin DB-3 bombers shot down on 26 June 1941 took his total to 40 aerial victories in World War II. This achievement earned him the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves () on 27 June 1941. He was the 16th member of the German armed forces to be so honored. That day, he was also mentioned in the \"Wehrmachtbericht\" radio report, the first of six such mentions.\n\nIhlefeld, on a combat air patrol in the vicinity of Iași, claimed a I-16 fighter aircraft shot down on 28 June. The next day I.(J)/LG 2 moved to an airfield at Uzhhorod and to Tudora on 1 July 1941. On 2 July, I.(J)/LG 2 flew five combat missions and Ihlefeld achieved his 42nd aerial victory over a Polikarpov I-153 biplane fighter. On a Stuka escort mission to Kamianets-Podilskyi on 4 July, he shot down a I-15. On 6 July, I.(J)/LG 2 flew seven combat missions, on two of which they had enemy contact. On the sixth mission of the day, the unit encountered five SB-2 bombers escorted by seven I-16 fighters. In the resulting aerial combat, Ihlefeld shot down one I-16, his 44th victory.\n\nOn 30 August 1941 he became an \"ace-in-a-day\" by shooting down five Soviet aircraft, his 48th to 52nd aerial victories.\nIn the spring of 1942, a series of multiple victories (five aircraft on 24 March, seven on 30 March and seven on 20 April), saw Ihlefeld become the fifth pilot on 22 April 1942 to reach 100 victories during World War II. During the period of Ihlefeld's leadership, \"I./JG 77\" was credited with the destruction of 323 enemy aircraft while losing only 17 Messerschmitt Bf 109s.\n\nOn 10 May 1942, Ihlefeld was replaced by \"Hauptmann\" Heinrich Bär as \"Gruppenkommandeur\" of I. \"Gruppe\". Ihlefeld had been selected to take over JG 52 as \"Geschwaderkommodore\" (Wing Commander). Prior to this appointment, he was sent to the \"Geschwaderstab\" of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 51 (JG 51—51st Fighter Wing) as a commander-in-training under \"Hauptmann\" Karl-Gottfried Nordmann. In June 1942, Ihlefeld was promoted to \"Major\" (major) and on 26 June took command of JG 52. On 22 July 1942, whilst flying over the front in his Fieseler Fi 156 \"Storch\", a small liaison aircraft, he was shot down and badly wounded by Soviet fighters, this took him out of the front line until July 1943, when he joined the newly formed \"Jagdgeschwader\" 25 (JG 25—25th Fighter Wing) as \"Geschwaderkommodore\", leading the group's high-altitude Bf 109s in ultimately unsuccessful operations against RAF de Havilland Mosquitos, and later United States Air Force (USAAF) heavy bomber formations in defense of the Reich missions.\n\nOn 1 February 1944, Ihlefeld was promoted to \"Oberstleutnant\" (lieutenant colonel). In May 1944, he briefly became \"Geschwaderkommodore\" of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 11 (JG 11—11th Fighter Wing), before taking command of \"Jagdgeschwader\" 1 \"Oesau\" (JG 1—1st Fighter Wing) on 20 May 1944. Ihlefeld replaced Bär as \"Geschwaderkommodore\" who had led the \"Geschwader\" since the death in combat of \"Oberst\" Walter Oesau on 11 May 1944. On 14 July 1944, Ihlefeld claimed a North American P-51 Mustang and a Spitfire shot down. He was credited with his next victories on 25 July, claiming the destruction of a Avro Lancaster heavy bomber and a Spitfire.\n\nIhlefeld participated and led JG 1 in Operation Bodenplatte, the failed attempt to cripple Allied air forces in the Low Countries. The objective of Bodenplatte was to gain air superiority during the stagnant stage of the Battle of the Bulge and dates back to meeting held on 16 September 1944. That day, Hitler informed \"General der Flieger\" (Lieutenant General) Werner Kreipe, acting Chief of the General Staff of the \"Luftwaffe\", about the planned offensive. Ihlefeld probably learned of this operation on 5 December 1944. \"Luftwaffenkommando West\" (Air Command West) had ordered every wing commander of all the \"Jagdgeschwaders\" destined to participate in the operation to attend a meeting at the headquarters of II. \"Jagdkorps\" (2nd Fighter Corps) at Flammersfeld near Koblenz. At the time, Ihlefeld was faced with a very challenging leadership situation. Prior to the operation, JG 1 had lost the commander of I. \"Gruppe\", \"Hauptmann\" Hans Ehlers who was killed in action on 27 December, and the commander of III. \"Gruppe\", \"Hauptmann\" Erich Woitke who had been killed in action on 24 December. The commander of II. \"Gruppe\", \"Hauptmann\" Hermann Staiger, had landed his combat damaged aircraft at Frankfurt and had not yet returned to his unit. On the early afternoon of 31 December 1944, Ihlefeld summoned his three new \"Gruppenkommandeure\" to Twente for the mission briefing. The new I. \"Gruppe\" commander was \"Hauptmann\" Georg Hackbarth, II. \"Gruppe\" was led by \"Oberleutnant\" Fritz Wegner and III. \"Gruppe\" was now headed by \"Hauptmann\" Harald Moldenhauer.\n\nOn 1 January 1945, the \"Geschwaderstab\" and I. \"Gruppe\", both based at Twente, took off at 8:10 and joined up with and III. \"Gruppe\", based at Rheine, which had taken off at 8:15. Their designated targets were the airfields at Maldegem and Ursel. The formation was led by four Junkers Ju 88 night fighters from \"Nachtjagdgeschwader\" 1 (NJG 1—1st Night Fighter Wing); they were the pathfinders for the single-engined fighters. The formation of 20 Focke Wulf Fw 190 A-8s and 30 Bf 109 G-14s, flying at an altitude of , headed west. As the flight approached The Hague, they came under heavy and precise German anti-artillery fire. The German anti-artillery units had not been informed of the \"Luftwaffe\" operation. Several aircraft were hit, including the aircraft of Ihlefeld who had to make a forced landing near Rotterdam. II. \"Gruppe\", based at Drope, between Lengerich and Bawinkel, had also taken off at 8:15 and headed for the airfield at Ghent/Sint-Denijs-Westrem. ( Polish Fighter Wing No 131, Sq 301/308/317 Spitfire IX/XVI ) JG 1 continued with their mission without Ihlefeld leading the decisive phase of the attack. The result of the attack can be described as Pyrrhic victory at best. JG 1 claimed the destruction of around 60 enemy aircraft, of which 54 were destroyed on the ground, for the loss of 25 pilots and 29 aircraft.\nFollowing of Operation Bodenplatte, and failing to maintain air superiority over the Ardennes area, a severely weakened II. \"Gruppe\" transferred to Insterburg in East Prussia, present-day Chernyakhovsk in Russia. I. \"Gruppe\" faced RAF fighters over Hengelo-Twente on 14 January 1945. JG 1 lost 12 pilots with 7 being killed, 3 wounded and 2 missing. Spitfires shot down the entire 1. and 2. \"Staffeln\" of JG 1 at Twente airport as they took off, for the loss of two. Ihlefeld threatened to court martial \"Major\" Günther Capito, the new commander of I. \"Gruppe\", for such a disastrous loss but was unable to during the transferring to the Eastern Front. In Poland JG 1 were briefly assigned to \"Luftflotte Reich\" (Air Fleet Reich).\n\nHe was promoted to \"Oberst\" (colonel) on 30 January 1945. Late in the war, elements of the \"Geschwader\" were equipped with the He 162 \"Volksjäger\", a single-engine, jet-powered fighter aircraft. He 162 A-2 (\"Werknummer\" 120230), Ihlefeld flew this aircraft during the war, is currently in possession of the National Air and Space Museum collection.\n\nIn 1984, Winston Ramsey, the editor of \"After the Battle\" magazine, contacted both Ihlefeld and Squire, who Ihlefeld had shot down on 26 February 1941, and arranged a meeting. Subsequently, Ihlefeld and Squire met at Calais. Ihlefeld died on 8 August 1995 in Wennigsen, Lower Saxony. His ashes were buried on the urn field near the chapel on the old cemetery in Kirchheim unter Teck, Baden-Württemberg.\n\nMatthews and Foreman, authors of \"Luftwaffe Aces — Biographies and Victory Claims\", researched the German Federal Archives and found documentation for 122 aerial victory claims, plus five further unconfirmed claims. This number includes nine claims during the Spanish Civil War, 48 on the Western Front, including three four-engined bombers, and 65 on the Eastern Front.\n\nVictory claims were logged to a map-reference (PQ = \"Planquadrat\"), for example \"PQ 05 Ost S/ET-1\". The \"Luftwaffe\" grid map () covered all of Europe, western Russia and North Africa and was composed of rectangles measuring 15 minutes of latitude by 30 minutes of longitude, an area of about . These sectors were then subdivided into 36 smaller units to give a location area 3 × 4 km in size.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3262156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3262156", "title": "International standard waltz", "text": "International standard waltz\n\nWaltz is one of the five dances in the Standard (or Modern) category of the International Style ballroom dances. It was previously referred to as Slow Waltz or English Waltz.\n\nWaltz is usually the first dance in the Dancesport competition rounds. It is danced exclusively in the closed position, unlike its American Style counterpart.\n\nThe Waltz originated as a folk dance from Austria. Predecessors include the \"Matenick\" and a variation called the \"Furiant\" that were performed during rural festivals in Bohemia. The French dance, \"Walt\", and the Austrian Ländler are the most similar to the waltz among its predecessors.\n\nThe \"king of dances\" acquired different national traits in different countries. Thus there appeared the English Waltz, the Hungarian Waltz, and the Waltz-Mazurka. The \"Waltz\" is derived from the old German word \"walzen\" meaning \"to roll, turn\", or \"to glide\". Waltz was danced competitively since 1923 or 1924.\n\nInternational Standard Waltz is a Waltz dance and danced to slow waltz music, preferably 28-30 bars per minute (84-90 beats per minute). Waltz music is in 3/4 time and the 1st beat of a measure is strongly accented.\n\nLike all Standard category dances, Waltz is a progressive dance, meaning that dancers travel along a path known as the line of dance. It is characterized by pendulum swing movements and incorporates general elements of ballroom technique such as foot parallelism, rise and fall, contra body movement and sway.\n\nMost of the have one step per beat (three per measure), whereas have four to six steps per measure. The faster pace of the advanced figures, especially when combined with dance turns, results in fast-paced, dynamic dancing despite the relatively slow music tempo. Slow steps and elegant poses are often used to contrast fast-paced dance segments, resulting in what is sometimes referred to as \"light and shade\".\n\nThis is the ISTD International Standard syllabus.\n\nNote that Pre-Bronze is included as part of the Bronze syllabus.\n\n\n     xx.  Drag Hesitation\n\n     xx.  Fallaway Whisk\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47246246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47246246", "title": "Israeli settler violence", "text": "Israeli settler violence\n\nIsraeli settler violence refers to acts of violence committed by Jewish Israeli settlers and their supporters against Palestinians and Israeli security forces, predominantly in the West Bank. Although the majority of settlers do not engage in violence, there has been a rise in violent acts by extremists against Palestinians, non-Jews, Israel Police, and IDF troops in the early twenty-first century. In 2007 Israeli prosecutors determined that of 515 criminal suits relating to violent activity committed by Israeli settlers against Palestinians and Israeli security forces, 502 were related to right-wing Jewish settlers in the Occupied Territories. In 2008, the senior Israeli commander in the West Bank said that a hard core of a few hundred activists were involved in violence against the Palestinians and Israeli soldiers.\n\nSome prominent Jewish religious figures living in the occupied territories, as well as Israeli government officials, have condemned and expressed outrage over such behavior, while religious justifications for settler killings have also been given. While Israeli media said the defense establishment began taking a harder line against unruly settlers starting in 2008, an EU heads of mission report found that settler violence had more than tripled in the three years up to 2011. United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) figures state that the annual rate of settler attacks (2,100 attacks in 8 years) has almost quadrupled between 2006 and 2014.\n\nPalestinian police are forbidden from reacting to acts of violence by Israeli settlers, a fact which diminishes their credibility among Palestinians. UN figures from 2011 showed that 90% of complaints filed against settlers by Palestinians with the Israeli police never led to indictment.\n\nIsrael has justified its civilian settlements by stating the territories in question are not occupied, but disputed, and that a temporary use of land and buildings for various purposes appears permissible under a plea of military necessity and that the settlements fulfilled security needs. The United Nations affirmed the principle of international law that the continuation of colonialism in all its forms and manifestations is a crime and that colonial peoples have the inherent right to struggle by all necessary means at their disposal against colonial Powers and alien domination in exercise of their right of self-determination. National liberation struggles are categorized as international armed conflicts by Article 1(4) of the Additional Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 to which the majority of states (including the Western states) are parties. The International Court of Justice concluded that Israel had breached its obligations under international law by establishing settlements in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and that Israel cannot rely on a right of self-defence or on a state of necessity in order to preclude the wrongfulness of imposing a régime, which is contrary to international law. The Court also concluded that the Israeli régime violates the basic human rights of the Palestinians by impeding the liberty of movement of the inhabitants of the Occupied Palestinian Territory (with the exception of Israeli citizens) and their exercise of the right to work, to health, to education and to an adequate standard of living.\n\nIn Hebron, where 500-600 settlers live among 167,000 Palestinians, B'Tselem argues that there have been \"grave violations\" of Palestinian human rights because of the \"presence of the settlers within the city\". The organization cites regular incidents of \"almost daily physical violence and property damage by settlers in the city\", curfews and restrictions of movement that are \"among the harshest in the Occupied Territories\", and violence by Israeli border policemen and the IDF against Palestinians who live in the city's H2 sector.\n\nHuman Rights Watch reports on physical violence against Palestinians by settlers, including, \"frequent[ly] stoning and shooting at Palestinian cars. In many cases, settlers abuse Palestinians in front of Israeli soldiers or police with little interference from the authorities.\"\n\nB'Tselem also says that settler actions include \"blocking roadways, so as to impede Palestinian life and commerce. The settlers also shoot solar panels on roofs of buildings, torch automobiles, shatter windowpanes and windshields, destroy crops, uproot trees, abuse merchants and owners of stalls in the market. Some of these actions are intended to force Palestinians to leave their homes and farmland, and thereby enable the settlers to gain control of them.\"\n\nOne of the causes of violence is vigilante action caused by Palestinians violence.\n\nHuman rights group B'Tselem says that the violence is \"a means to harass and intimidate Palestinians\" and that the evacuations are a necessary part of the peace process. According to B'Tselem, when a building is evacuated by the Israeli government, settlers lash out at Palestinians because they're \"easy victims\" and as a means to widen the area under settler control.\n\nGhassan Daghlas, a Palestinian Authority official who deals with the settlements issue in the northern West Bank, said, \"These groups of settlers are organised and support each other...If there’s an outpost evacuation, they call people from Hebron to Jenin to stop the Palestinians working on their lands\". Michael Sfard, a lawyer with Yesh Din, an Israeli human rights group which monitors the violation of human rights in the Palestinian territories, stated that there are between a few dozen and a few hundred extremist settlers using a tactic called \"Price Tagging\": if the Government sends police or soldiers to dismantle an outpost that is being built, the settlers make the Palestinian population pay the price. While people in the outpost are confronting the security forces, others start harassing Palestinians, forcing commanders to divert men from the outpost and making them think twice about launching future operations. \"It’s such a big headache that many of the relevant authorities give up without trying\" and the outposts are quickly rebuilt once the army gives up and leaves.\n\nThe violence by extremist settlers against Palestinians has been condemned by leading religious, political and municipal figures in the West Bank, including Rabbi Menachem Fruman of Tekoa, who said: \"Targeting Palestinians and their property is a shocking thing, (...) It's an act of hurting humanity. (...) This builds a wall of fire between Jews and Arabs.\" According to Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Ya'alon, \"most of those extreme right wing activists\" are not settlers and do not represent the settlements community.\n\nThe Yesha Council and former Knesset member Hanan Porat has also condemned violence against Palestinians. \"The 'price tag' response is immoral\", Porat said. \"It's unheard of that one needs to burn the vineyards and fields of Arabs. It's immoral ... and it gives legitimacy to those who are interested in undermining the outpost issue. It's a very grave matter.\"\n\nYesha Council is the umbrella organization of municipal councils of Jewish settlements in the West Bank. Council chairman Dani Dayan said that settlers must not use violence to advance their means. He said that such actions were \"morally bankrupt\" and serve only to \"hinder the settlers' struggle\".\n\nWhen an 11-year-old Palestinian girl from Nablus was killed by settlers in 1983, in their defense, the chief rabbi of the Sephardic community reportedly cited a Talmudic text justifying killing an enemy on occasions when one may see from a child’s perspective that he or she will grow up to become your enemy. Rabbis have been asked by settler militants to provide rulings to justify acts that are aimed to block peace with, or the return of land to, Palestinians. The theft of Palestinian olive harvests has been justified by some rabbis. Former chief rabbi Mordechai Eliyahu stated that: \"Since the land is the inheritance of the People of Israel, planting on this land by gentiles is planting on land that does not belong to them. If someone puts a tree on my land, both the tree and the fruit it yields belongs to me.\" Some rabbinical extremists cite the biblical edict to exterminate the Amalekites to justify both expelling Palestinians from the land and killing Arab civilians in wartime.\n\nUnlike Palestinians, Israeli civilians living in the Palestinian Territories are not subject to military or local law, but are prosecuted according to Israeli penal law. This originates in the Emergency Regulations bill enacted in 1967 and extended since which gives extraterritorial rights to Israelis in the occupied territories. B'Tselem has said that the difference in legal status of Israelis and Palestinians in the territories has led to a double standard in which Israelis are given more legal rights and are punished more lightly than the Palestinians who are subject to military and local law. B'Tselem notes the system violates the principles of equality before the law and territoriality.\n\nReferring to settler violence during the police evacuation of the \"Federman Farm\" near Kiryat Arba, Haaretz has stated in an editorial \"Israeli society has become accustomed to giving lawbreaking settlers special treatment\", noting that no other group could similarly attack Israeli law enforcement agencies without being severely punished. Haaretz has characterized settler violence on soldiers and policemen who participated in the evacuation of the \"Federman Farm\" as \"terrorism\".\n\nIn response to the violence directed towards Israeli security forces, Israel declared it would no longer fund any illegal outposts from November, 2008.\n\nAfter the evacuation of settlers from Hebron in December 2008, a riot ensued and a Jewish settler, Ze'ev Braude, was recorded on video shooting two unarmed Palestinians after Palestinians had hurled rocks at him. The victims were shot on their own property, which Braude had entered, and later needed surgery. The Israeli State Prosecutor's Office decided to abandon the prosecution of Braude after the Israeli High Court of Justice ruled that the prosecution must give the defendant access to \"sensitive information\". The prosecutor's office had earlier said that some of the evidence against Braude was classified for security reasons, due to \"the Shin Bet's sources and methods of operation, and identifying details about its units and people\". Braude had petitioned the High Court for access.\n\nThe United Nations Fact Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict reported on rioting and violence in the West Bank in the period preceding the Israeli military operations in Gaza. The report said \"Little if any action is taken by the Israeli authorities to investigate, prosecute and punish violence against Palestinians, including killings, by settlers and members of the security forces, resulting in a situation of impunity. The Mission concludes that Israel has failed to fulfil its obligations to protect the Palestinians from violence by private individuals under both international human rights law and international humanitarian law. The report also stated that the International Court of Justice advisory opinion and \"a number of United Nations resolutions have all affirmed that Israel’s practice of constructing settlements - in effect, the transfer by an occupying Power of parts of its own civilian population into the territory it occupies - constitutes a breach of the Fourth Geneva Convention\".\n\nAccording to Amos Harel, attempts by the security forces to bring violent right-wing zealots to justice have suffered from two main problems: investigating Israelis as opposed to Palestinians is subject to more restrictions, and courts have proved to be lenient. Human rights nonprofit Yesh Din has produced a report, \"A Semblance of Law\", which found problems with law enforcement actions against Israelis in the West Bank. According to Yesh Din's study, which was conducted in 2005, among complaints against Israelis, more than 90% were closed without indictments mainly due to perpetrators not being found, 5% were lost and never investigated, and 96% of trespassing cases (including sabotage of trees) and 100% of vandalism and other property offense complaints led to no indictment.\n\nAs well as collecting statistics, Yesh Din examined 42 closed investigation files and found a number of shortcomings, including the use of Hebrew to record testimonies given in Arabic; frequent failure to check the scene where the alleged offense took place; often not taking down eye-witness testimonies; widespread lack of recourse to live identification line-ups with suspected Israeli civilians; hardly any confrontations between complainants and suspects; failure to check alibis; hasty closure of files shortly after the complaint was registered: closing of files even when evidence was sufficient to indict suspects: police refusing to register complaints, and pressure from the Civilian Administration being used to avoid filing complaints.\n\n8% of complaints resulted in indictments. The Israeli Justice Ministry responded by stating that legal authorities were closely following specific cases, but said that it was not in its authority to deal with every case.\n\nIsraeli security sources have said that it has become customary for some settlers to take the law into their own hands in the wake of Palestinian terror attacks in the West Bank.\n\nIn 2008-2009, the defense establishment began taking a harder line against unruly settlers.\n\nIn 2012, two EU heads of mission reports stated that Israel's security operations in the occupied territories had failed to protect the Palestinian population; it accused Israel of setting up its operations to minimize the impact on settlers of an ongoing campaign of settler violence. The reports noted that, \"Over 90% of monitored complaints regarding settler violence filed by Palestinians with the Israeli police in recent years have been closed without indictment\", and further added that, \"discriminatory protections and privileges for settlers compound these abuses and create an environment in which settlers can act with apparent impunity\".\n\nFollowing an attack by settlers on an IDF army base on December 13, 2011, the Israeli government authorized administrative detention and military trial for settlers who engaged in violent actions, similar to the treatment accorded Palestinian activists who engage in similar behavior. The IDF was granted the power to arrest violent settlers and plans were announced to increase security on the West Bank and restrict access by known troublemakers. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu characterized the situation as a handful of extremists in a population of generally law-abiding settlers. Five West Bank Israelis who are alleged to have planned and participated in the attack on the army base were indicted by the District Court of Jerusalem on January 8, 2012.\n\nIsraeli withdrawals from Gaza (in 2005) and an eviction in Hebron (in 2008) triggered settler rioting in protest. There is also continual conflict between settlers and Palestinians over land, resources and perceived grievances.\nIn August 2007, soldiers clashed with settlers during a raid in Hebron. Paint and eggs were thrown at the soldiers.\n\nA violent settler protest at the Palestinian village of Funduk occurred in November 2007, in which hundreds of extremist settlers converged at the entrance of the village and rampaged after 29-year-old local settler, Ido Zoldan, was shot dead in his car by Palestinian gunmen at the entrance to Funduk. The settlers smashed the windows of houses and cars. According to Funduk villagers, Israeli soldiers and police accompanied the protesters but mostly stood aside while the settlers rampaged.\n\nIn December 2008, Hebron settlers angry at the eviction of settlers from a disputed house rioted, shooting three Palestinian rock-throwers and burning Palestinian homes and olive groves. Video footage of the attacks was recorded, leading to widespread condemnation in Israel. The attacks were characterized as \"a pogrom\" by then Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert who said he was ashamed \"as a Jew\".\n\nLocal Palestinians claimed that once the disputed house was evicted, the IDF and the police were \"indifferent\" to the violence against the Palestinians, and have made no real attempt to stop the settlers from rioting.\n\nSome settlers have publicly adopted what they refer to as a \"price tag\" policy whereby settlers attack Palestinian villages in retaliation after settler outposts are removed by the Israeli government.\n\nIn April 2009, dozens of settlers from Bat Ayin rampaged through the West Bank village of Safa, smashing car windows, damaging homes and wounding 12 Palestinians. An Israeli army spokeswoman said the violence started when Palestinians threw stones at Bat Ayin settlers praying on a nearby hill before the Jewish Passover holiday.\n\nThe United Nations has warned that up to 250,000 Palestinians in 83 villages are \"highly or moderately\" vulnerable to settler retaliation if the unauthorized outposts in the West Bank are removed by the Israeli government. 75,900 Palestinians in 22 villages are \"highly vulnerable\". The report also warns that a number of roads around Palestinian villages may become dangerous for the Palestinians to travel on. The settlements Havat Gilad, Kedumim, Itamar, Yitzhar, Ma'aleh Levona, Shilo, Adei Ad, Nokdim, Bat Ayin, Negohot, Kiryat Arba, Beit Haggai, Carmel, and Susya are considered as possible threats to nearby Palestinians. The report criticizes \"the inadequate level of law enforcement by the Israeli authorities\" and \"the ambiguous message delivered by the Government of Israel and the IDF top officials to the security forces in the field regarding their authority and responsibility to enforce the law on Israeli settlers\".\n\nSome settlers who attacked or harassed Palestinians are disaffected youths, referred to in the Israeli media as Hilltop Youth. In 2008, welfare minister Isaac Herzog (Labor party) labeled them a \"security threat\", as well as a \"societal and educational danger\". In December 2011, following an outbreak of settler violence against IDF property and personnel, the Israeli Defense Minister, Ehud Barak, said with reference to the Hilltop Youth, \"There is no doubt that we are talking about terrorists\".\n\nOlive farming is a major industry and employer in the Palestinian West Bank and olive trees are a common target of settler violence. According to OCHA roughly 10,000 Palestinian West Bank olive trees and saplings have suffered either uprooting or damage from Israeli attacks in 2013, a rise from about 8,500 trees damaged in 2012. B'Tselem alleges that \"olive pickers in areas near certain settlements and outposts in the West Bank have been a target of attacks by settlers, who have cut down and burned olive trees and stolen the crops\", and that \"security forces have not taken suitable action to prevent the violence\". The IDF barred olive picking in extensive areas of land, stating that the closures were to protect the olive pickers. The case went to the Israeli High Court in 2006 which found that, as a rule, lands are not to be closed because of settler violence, and that the IDF must enforce the law. According to B'Tselem the IDF has worked around this by saying the lands are closed to protect the settlers.\n\nAmnesty International has said that scores of Palestinian-owned sheep as well as gazelles and other animals were poisoned with fluoracetamide near Tuwani on 22 March 2005, depriving Palestinian farmers of their livelihood.\n\nIn July 2009, a group of Israeli settlers riding horses and carrying torches raided Palestinian areas, burning 1,500-2,000 olive trees and stoning cars.\n\nIn March 2011, two EU heads-of-mission reports detailed a tripling of violent settler attacks over three years. The report found that the attacks were especially aimed at Palestinian farmers and their livelihood in a systematic campaign of violence and intimidation which included the destruction of over 10,000 olive trees in the preceding year. The report noted that the Israeli state had \"so far failed to effectively protect the Palestinian population\".\n2013. According to a confidential IDF document for just the period from Sept. 11 - October 20, 2013, the following Palestinian olive groves, near Israeli settlements near Elon Moreh, Karnei Shomron, Kedumim, Ma'on, and the Ma'on Farm, Susya, Shavei Shomron, Zayit Ra'anan, the Gilad Farm, Shilo, and Yitzhar, and all under IDF guard, were damaged, but were not reported in the media:\n\nAccording to Yesh Din, 97.4% of complaints submitted to Israeli police by Palestinians who had suffered damage to their olive groves between 2005 and 2013 were closed without indictment.\n\nA settler group named Tazpit Unit stated to have documented Palestinians destroying trees with the intention of blaming settlers for the destruction. Photos taken by the group allegedly show Palestinians and left-wing activists cutting down Palestinian olive trees using an electric saw. The settlers stated that many of the reported \"price tag\" operations by settlers were actually carried out by Palestinians with the aim of tarnishing the settlers' image.\n\nIsraeli settlers were accused by an Arab farmer of having gathered his sheep into an area thick with brush and setting fire to the bushes, burning alive his 12 pregnant ewes. The police questioned the farmer's description of religious settlers wearing skullcaps driving a car on Sabbath, as Orthodox Jews do not drive on this day. Caroline Glick writing in the Jerusalem Post reported that the farmer later admitted that he lost control of a brush fire that was responsible for the damage. Israeli media network Arutz Sheva said this incident exposed the tactic of leftists of accepting Arab claims and falsely accusing Jews.\n\nIn March 2012, two Arab males of Beit Zarzir confessed, after being arrested, to damaging a local school for Arab and Jewish students. They admitted responsibility for having sprayed on the wall of the school, \"Death to Arabs\". The school was sprayed twice in February with the slogans \"price tag\", \"Death to Arabs\", and \"Holocaust to the Arabs\".\n\nOn 13 July 2004, residents of Hirbat Atwana near Hebron found rotting chicken carcasses in their well after four Jewish settlers were seen in the village. Israeli police said they suspected militant Jews from a nearby settlement outpost called Havat Maon. Settlers blamed the action on \"internal tribal fight between the Palestinians;\" Israeli police spokesman Doron Ben-Amo said it was \"unlikely\" that the Palestinians would contaminate their own well. On 9 December 2007, members of Christian Peacemaker Teams, an American NGO, reported to have observed a group of Israelis stop next to a cistern in Humra Valley, open the lid, and raise the bucket. The water was later found to be contaminated. Oxfam, a British NGO, has reported that settlers deliberately poisoned the only well in Madama, a village near Nablus, by dumping used diapers into it; and that they shot aid workers who came to clean the well.\n\nA United Nations survey released in March 2012 documented the increasing use of threats, violence and intimidation to deny Palestinians access to their water resources in the West Bank. The survey stated that Israeli settlers have been acting systematically to gain control of some 56 springs most of which are located on private Palestinian land. The report noted that settler actions included \"trespass, intimidation and physical assault, stealing of private property, and construction without a building permit\". The report criticized the Israeli authorities for having \"systematically failed to enforce the law on those responsible for these acts and to provide Palestinians with any effective remedy\".\n\nIn December 2009, suspected settler extremists attacked a mosque in the northern West Bank village of Yasuf near Nablus according to Palestinian officials and Israeli police. The people forced their way into the mosque and burned about 100 holy books including Korans, Hadiths, prayer carpets as well as spray painted anti-Palestinian slogans on the floor, some of which referred to the settlers' \"price tag\" policy.\n\nIn January 2010, Israeli security officers raided the settlement of Yitzhar, forcibly entered the settlement's synagogue and yeshiva buildings and arrested ten settlers, including the Rosh yeshiva, for alleged involvement in the mosque attack. All were released by the court due to lack of evidence and the court reprimanded the police for arresting the rabbi. As of January 2010, no indictments were served. The state has appealed the ruling.\n\nIn September 2011, the Al-Nurayn Mosque in Qusra became the subject of an arson attack allegedly perpetrated by militant Jewish settlers, who set the mosque on fire by throwing two burning tyres through its windows. Slogans in Hebrew threatening further attacks had been graffitied on the walls, reading \"Muhammad is a Pig\". A star of David had also been graffitied alongside. The attack came hours after Israeli police dismantled three structures in the nearby illegal Jewish settlement of Migron, leading newspapers to suggest that it may have been carried out by settlers in retaliation.\n\nOn 12 November, the Al-Mughayyir mosque in the Ramallah and al-Bireh Governorate was damaged extensively when it was torched, reportedly by settlers in what was believed to be a price-tag attack. Israeli police say the incident does not match previous ‘price tag’ attacks, and that a full investigation was impossible because they were denied entry to the village by Palestinian authorities. According to Haaretz journalist Chaim Levinson, it was the 10th such mosque subject to arson in Israel and the West Bank since June 2011, and no investigation has ever led to an indictment. Settler violence has impeded Palestinians from visiting holy sites and worshipping at their mosques, and have interfered with muezzin calls for daily prayer.\n\nThe growing ascendency of the right wing in politics over the past decades has led to increasing attacks on non-Jewish religious properties, associated with \"price tag\" attacks by settlers and their sympathizers, with a rise in attacks on churches throughout the West Bank and Jerusalem, extending even to Israel.The Patriarch of the Holy City of Jerusalem and all Palestine, Theophilos III has decried, \"repeated\" attacks on Christian and Muslim places of worship in the Palestinian territories by extremist Jewish settlers.\n\nMany settlers want to be regarded as part of the Israeli mainstream. Only a small minority among them is violent. The number of settlers involved in violent activities is estimated to have grown from a few dozen individuals into a few hundred, out of a total population of about 500,000 Jewish settlers.\n\nExtremist groups associated with the settler movement included the Gush Emunim Underground, which existed from 1979 to 1984 as a militant organization linked to the settler activist group Gush Emunim. They carried out attacks against Jewish students and Palestinian officials, attempted to bomb a bus and planned an attack on the Dome of the Rock.\n\nThe New York Times has noted that the religious, ideological wing of the settler movement is growing more radical. It is widely suspected that a pipe-bomb attack on settler critic Zeev Sternhell was perpetrated by settler radicals, who left fliers at the scene offering 1 million shekels to anyone who \"kills a member of anti-settlement group Peace Now\". Public Security Minister Avi Dichter condemned the attack, calling it a \"nationalistic terror attack\".\n\nShin Bet security chief Yuval Diskin warned that he has \"found a very high willingness among this public to use violence - not just stones, but live weapons - in order to prevent or halt a diplomatic process\". He also called settlers' mindset \"messianic\" and \"Satanic\".\n\nIDF Major-General Gadi Shamni has warned that there has been an increase in the number of violent settlers from a few dozen to hundreds and that the increase is impairing the IDF's ability to deal with other threats.\n\nIn August 2012, the United States defined settler attacks as 'terrorist incidents'.\n\nIn July 2014, a day after the burial of three murdered Israeli teens, Abu Khdeir, a 16-year-old Palestinian, was forced into a car on an East Jerusalem street by 3 Israelis, two teenagers led by a 30-year-old settler from the West Bank settlement of Adam. His family immediately reported the fact to Israeli Police who located his charred body a few hours later at Givat Shaul in the Jerusalem Forest. Preliminary results from the autopsy suggested that he was beaten and burnt while still alive. The murder suspects explained the attack as a response to the June abduction and murder of three Israeli teens. The murders contributed to a breakout of hostilities in the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict. While it has become a standard operating procedure in Israel to bulldoze the homes of terrorists and their families, and while the mother of the child requested their houses be demolished as are those of Palestinian terrorists, none of the perpetrators' homes were targeted for demolition. While Palestinians are tried in military courts, West Bank settlers are tried in Israel in civil courts, and no Jewish terrorist homes have been demolished. Demolition, the state has argued, does not apply to Jewish suspects of terrorism, because 'there is no need to deter potential Jewish terrorists'.\nThe European Union criticized Israel for 'failing to protect the Palestinian population'. when also in July 2015, a similar incident happened where Israeli settlers committed an arson attack on two Palestinian houses (one of which was empty), however the other house had a family inside. This resulted in the burning to death of Palestinian infant Ali Saad Dawabsheh when his father could not find him in the smoke from the arson fire. Three other members of his family were evacuated to hospital suffering serious injuries. These two incidents received worldwide condemnation from the United States, European Union and even the IDF.\n\nIn December 2011, following a briefing to the United Nations Security Council, all of the regional and political groupings seated at the council issued statements expressing dismay at violence by settlers and right-wing activists, naming the issue as an obstacle to the resumption of peace talks.\n\nIn one of a number of statements on the issue, the EU expressed \"deep concern regarding settler extremism and incitement by settlers in the West Bank\". The statement further added that \"the EU condemns continuous settler violence and deliberate provocations against Palestinian civilians. It calls on the government of Israel to bring the perpetrators to justice and to comply with its obligations under international law.\"\n\nAnnual statistics suggest settler violence against Palestinians and their property in the West Bank is on the rise.\n\nAccording to B'Tselem, 49 Palestinians were killed by Israeli civilians between 2000 and 2010. The majority of these killings are settler-related, because a significant portion of the dead were killed while attempting to infiltrate settlements or attacking Israelis. B'Tselem also keeps a record of incidents of settler violence.\n\nA UN report cited 222 incidents of settler violence in the first half of 2008, compared to 291 in all of 2007.\n\nThe United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs observed 207 incidents involving settler violence against Palestinians in the period between September 2008 and March 2009. The number of settler attacks peaked on the 4th of December when the evacuation of the Beit HaShalom in Hebron took place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1523668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1523668", "title": "Italian Republic (Napoleonic)", "text": "Italian Republic (Napoleonic)\n\nThe Italian Republic () was a short-lived (1802–1805) republic located in Northern Italy. Napoleon served as President and its capital was Milan.\n\nThe Italian Republic was the successor of the Cisalpine Republic, which changed its constitution to allow the French First Consul Napoleon to become its president. The new constitution changed the name of the state to the \"Italian Republic\"; it consisted of the same areas that had comprised the Cisalpine Republic, primarily Lombardy and Romagna.\n\nThe republic had a territory of more than , and a population of 3,240,000 in 12 \"départements\". Milan was the capital city, the main center having 124,000 inhabitants in 1764. The country was prosperous despite the plundering experienced in preceding centuries. Its economy was based on cereal agriculture and cattling, plus flourishing small industries, notably the production of silk.\n\nThe flag of the Italian Republic maintained the three Italian-Milanese national colours, but with a new, less revolutionary, pattern. The coat of arms was specified in a decree on May 13, 1802. A treaty of friendship and commerce with the Republic of San Marino was signed on June 10, 1802, the Concordat with the Holy See on September 16, 1803.\n\nThe government created the National Guard of Italy, a National Gendarmerie, and a finance police; the metric system was introduced and a national currency was planned, although never minted during the republican era.\n\nIn 1805, following Bonaparte's assumption of the title of Emperor of the French, the Italian Republic was transformed into the Kingdom of Italy (\"Regno d'Italia\"), with Napoleon as king and his stepson Eugène de Beauharnais as viceroy.\n\nAccording to the Italian constitution of 1802, sovereignty resided in three electoral colleges of three to two hundred members: the College of Owners (\"il Collegio dei possidenti\"), the College of Scholars (\"il Collegio dei dotti\"), and the College of Traders (\"il Collegio dei mercanti\"), the first having its seat in Milan, the second in Bologna, and the third in Brescia. All the colleges elected a commission of control and supreme rule, called the Censorship (\"la Censura\"), composed of twenty-one members and based in Cremona.\nThe head of state was the president of the republic (\"il Presidente della repubblica\"), Napoleon Bonaparte, elected for 10 years. The president had full executive powers, appointed the vice-president (\"il Vicepresidente\") and the secretary of state, took legislative and diplomatic initiative, chose the ministers, public agents, ambassadors, and chiefs of the army, summoned the executive councils, and prepared the budget. The vice-president, Francesco Melzi d'Eril, acted for the president during his absence. Melzi was described as a gentleman, and effectively ruled over the state's domestic affairs during the three years of the republic's life. Never submitting to Napoleon, Melzi was demoted after the monarchy's proclamation in favour of more controllable men; however, Melzi's character ensured him Napoleon's deep private respect during all the years of the French empire. Melzi also introduced obligatory conscription to Italy.\n\nThe Consulta (\"la Consulta di Stato\") was a commission of eight members led by the president of the republic and in charge of foreign policy. The commissioners were appointed by the Censorship upon nomination by the three colleges: many former members of the Directory of the Cisalpine Republic entered into office. The Consulta ratified treaties, approved any special decrees concerning state security, and in the event of the death or resignation of the president, appointed the successor. The minister of foreign affairs was chosen from among the commissioners.\n\nThe Legislative Council (\"il Consiglio legislativo\") was a commission of at least ten members appointed by the president for three years. Its mission was to allow the president to submit legislation, helping him in the elaboration of laws and being present when they were discussed in parliament. The secretary of state (\"il segretario di Stato\") was the chief of the public administration. He promulgated the laws, guarded the state's seal, and countersigned presidential acts. The first secretary was Diego Guicciardi, soon followed by Pellegrino Nobili and, finally, by Luigi Vaccari.\n\nThe government comprised seven ministers (\"i ministri\"). The Minister of War was at first Alessandro Trivulzi and then, from 1804, General Domenico Pino; Minister of Interior was at first Luigi Villa and then, from 1803, Daniele Felici; Minister of Foreign Affairs was Ferdinando Marescalchi; Minister of Justice and Great Judge was Bonaventura Spannocchi; Minister of Treasury was Antonio Veneri; Minister of Finance was Giuseppe Prina; Minister of Religion was Giovanni Bovara. To draw up its budgets, the government was assisted by a Commissionership for National Accountancy.\n\nThe parliament of the republic was the Legislative Body (\"il Corpo Legislativo\") with limited powers. It was composed of 75 members elected in each department by the three colleges. It was summoned by the president of the republic and could only approve or reject a law, the discussion being reserved to a more restricted Chamber of orators or Chamber of speakers (\"Camera degli oratori\", a committee of fifteen speakers). First appointed at the Meetings of Lyon, one third of the parliament had to be renewed every two years.\n\nThe tribunals were divided into tribunals of first instance (\"tribunali di prima istanza\"), courts of appeal (\"corti d'appello\"), courts of revision (\"corti di revisione\"), and a court of cassation (\"corte di cassazione\"). The judges of the first two were appointed by the Consulta, the latter two by the three colleges.\n\nFollowing the French system, The state was divided into 12 \"départements\" (\"dipartimenti\"). The chief of the department was the prefect (\"prefetto\"), an office created on May 6, 1802. The prefect was the state's representative in each province (dipartimento), and had two main functions: the first was to implement the administrative decisions of the central government and to control the local authorities, the second was leadership of the police. The local legislative body was the General Council (\"Consiglio generale\"), composed of representatives of the communes. The government appointed the Central Departmental Administration (\"Consiglio della prefettura\"), composed of five or seven members chosen from nominations submitted by the General Council: the Administrations had powers over taxes and public works and, generally, represented local interests.\n\nThe departments were divided into districts (\"distretti\") equivalent to the French \"arrondissements\". The chief of the district was the vice-prefect, which had powers similar to those of the prefect, but for a smaller area. However, the structure of the districts was not uniform over all the territory of the republic, and some districts were administered by a district council and a chancellor.\n\nThe districts were divided into \"communes\". Communes with more than 3,000 inhabitants had a city council (\"consiglio comunale\") of thirty or forty members, chosen by the General council from nominations submitted by the same city council. In the smaller communes, all the taxable citizens were councillors. The council elected a municipality of three to nine members, helped in its executive functions by a city secretary. All city offices were held only by owners and traders, and the leadership of the owners was assured. Each commune had a tax collector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8177200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8177200", "title": "Ivy Supersonic", "text": "Ivy Supersonic\n\nIvy Supersonic (born Ivy Silberstein on June 12, 1967) is a New York City fashion designer, self-promoter, event planner, and animated character designer. She is the daughter of Jerome Silberstein, founder of Silberstein, Awad & Miklos. She also paints under her own name.\n\nSupersonic is a graduate of the Fashion Institute of Technology. She launched the denim brand I.B.I.V. during her university student years. Within three months of their launch, the jeans were featured on the cover of \"Women's Wear Daily\", have also been featured on MTV, \"Beverly Hills, 90210\" and \"Good Morning America\". She has designed hats for Pamela Anderson, Carmen Electra, Snoop Dogg, and George Clinton, among others. Reality TV star Omarosa Manigault wore a hat designed by Ivy on the season finale of\" The Apprentice\".\n\nSupersonic has held parties for \"Mira! Magazine\" and adult actress Gina Lynn.\n\nShe had a cartoon character of herself tattooed on her by Kat Von D for the TV show \"Miami Ink\". She originated the Ivy Supersonic cartoon at Universal Music Group, but bought it back in 2002, when Universal had a high staff turn over. Ivy had 17 tattoos done in 30 days to protest the Sqrat case.\n\nIn one of her many \"public feuds\" Ivy claims that the idea for the character Scrat from the movie \"Ice Age\" was stolen from her after she pitched her character \"Sqrat\", a cross between a squirrel and a rat that she claims to have seen in Madison Square Park to 20th Century Fox movie executives. Ivy claims she created the character in 1999 and has the trademark to prove it. A CNN report by Jeanie Moos of Ivy claims was aired in 2000, two years before \"Ice Age\" went into development.\n\nIvy claims she was offered a $300,000 settlement by Fox but turned it down, and subsequently lost the case at both the trial and appellate level. Ivy has continued her \"Make Rupert Murdoch Pay\" campaign in hopes of still receiving damages for her perceived infringement.\n\nOn October 27, 2007, Ivy started another public feud with New York nightclub, Plumm, over $1000. Ivy claims she is owed for a party she claims she hosted at the nightclub. Supersonic admitted to defacing the club after Plumm refused to pay her the money she claimed to be owed. Supersonic faced felony vandalism charges, but through a plea did minimal jail time and community service.\n\nSupersonic was thrown off \"The Tyra Banks Show\" on October 26, 2007, after producers did not like her tattoos showing through her dress. Ivy was given a shirt to cover the tattoos up but instead ripped the shirt and threw it on the floor and was subsequently asked to leave.\n\nIn 2009 she was summonsed after sneaking a recording device into the sentencing portion of the trial of infamous financier Bernie Madoff. In the act she was arrested by the Federal Protective Service.\n\nIvy Supersonic does not appear to have been publicly visible during the 2010s. Her website was still up as of 2017 but its news page had no entries past 2009.\n\nHowever in 2017 as Ivy Silberstein she had a show of her artwork, particularly her watercolors, in Manhattan.\n\n"}
{"id": "29769807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29769807", "title": "Joker (2012 film)", "text": "Joker (2012 film)\n\nJoker is a 2012 Hindi comedy science fiction film directed by Shirish Kunder and also his second directorial venture after \"Jaan-E-Mann\". The film stars Akshay Kumar opposite Sonakshi Sinha in lead roles. This was the second film in which Sinha paired opposite Kumar after \"Rowdy Rathore\" (2012). The film released worldwide on 31 August 2012, and received mixed to negative response upon release. The film was flopped at the box office . The trailer of the film revealed on 11 July 2012, and also in cinemas along with \"Cocktail\".\n\nAgastya (Akshay Kumar) is a scientist, working on the development of a communication system, to communicate with aliens. But Agastya loses the faith of his seniors and is allotted with a deadline of one month to conclude his project with some substantial results.\n\nIn the mean time Agastya is informed by his girlfriend Diva (Sonakshi Sinha) about his father's illness. On hearing this they both reaches his native village Paglapur, whose colourful inhabitants include a man who speaks in gibberish, another who thinks he is a lamp post and everyone else who think that the World War II is still going on.\n\nSoon after reaching there, Agastya finds that he was called on a false pretext of illness by his father.\n\nOn getting apprised about truth, Agastya decides to move back to US, but after hearing the plight of the inhabitants of Paglapur, due to the brushing aside of the village by the government because of its being absent from the demarcated map of India, he makes his mind to come out with some solution for the problem.\n\nAs the story proceeds, Agastya comes up with a quaint idea pertaining to the crop circle and arrival of aliens in his village, in order to fetch a recognition for his otherwise isolated village undergoing a plight of neglect ever since the independence.\n\nWith frames moving ahead, Agastya along with other villagers creates crop circle in Paglapur and spreads rumour about arrival of aliens in the village. And from there, amid tremendous media hype, takes over some hilarious sequences knitted around UFO and fictitious man made aliens.\n\nIn the end, the whole joke about the fake aliens is found out and at the end of the movie real aliens come and give the village the gift of oil.\n\n\nShirish Kunder had the project in development for several years before finding financial backing and hit films, and had to negotiate for use of the specific title which Kunder stated is important to the script itself. The film is being produced by Farah Khan, Shirish Kunder, and Akshay Kumar under the banner of Three's Company and Hari Om Entertainment. The film was shot in 3D using 3D cameras, however in June 2012, it was announced that the film was no longer in 3D any more, since Ra.One and Don 2 have taken the goals, if \"Joker\" flopped it would be a loss on the whole crew, therefore the film will only be released in 2D format. According to director, Shirish Kunder, \"It is an underdog story about how individuals make it big in life and in the process, get help from aliens from a fictional planet\". Shreyas Talpade will play Akshay's brother in the film. Female lead opposite to Shreyas will be played by Minisha Lamba, who will enact the role of an innocent TV reporter. Sonakshi will also perform an item number in the film. American actor Alexx ONell was also signed to play a role in the film.\n\nThe first schedule of shooting was initially slated to take place in Ludhiana, however the location was changed to Chandigarh. The shooting began on 14 February 2011 in Chandigarh. The crew finished the 19-day schedule on 12 March 2011, finishing 40% of the production work. The second schedule started on 17 May 2011 in Mumbai and concluded in June 2011. The film is now slated to release on 31 August 2012. The theatrical trailer was released on UTV Motion Pictures' YouTube channel on 11 July 2012 only online. Whilst it released worldwide on television on 13 July 2012, and also in cinemas along with \"Cocktail\".\n\nShrish Kunder wanted to cast Asin Thottumkal as the female lead but, she was not able to adjust the dates for the film so, producers cast Sonakshi Sinha opposite Akshay Kumar. Shreyas Talpade and Minisha Lamba were later cast in pivotol roles.\n\n\"Joker\" received negative reviews from critics. Based on 16 reviews, review aggregate site \"desimartini.com\" gave the film the verdict, \"Apart from an interesting concept and a handful of funny moments, \"Joker\" is drag and doesn't work as a comedy or as a sci-fi caper. Skip it!\" The site's average audience rating is 2/5. Independent Bollywood gave 2.5 out of 5 stars and said \"A Funny and weird entertainer with message\". Soumyadipta Banerjee of In.com gave 0.5 out of 5 stars and said \"Not only that the aliens are weird, the whole movie seems be in some weird planet after a point of time\". Saibal Chatterjee of \"NDTVMovies.com\" gave the film 1 out of 5 stars and wrote, \"\"Joker\" is a crude joke of a film that will leave you in tears unless you have a stomach strong enough to digest such unmitigated junk.\" Noted film critic Taran Adarsh also gave it 1 out of 5 stars and labelled it as a complete \"disaster\" and a \"joke of a film\".. IMDB also gave it 2.6/10 star. \n\nAll songs featured in the film except one, are composed by G. V. Prakash Kumar, nephew of noted composer, A. R. Rahman. The song \"Jugnu Banke Tu\" sung by Udit Narayan was highly appreciated among all songs. Udit also received Kalakar Award for best male playback singer for this song The song titled \"I Want Fakth You\" from \"Joker\" was leaked online on 11 July 2012, along with the theatrical trailer which has been composed by Gaurav Dagaonkar. The song has been acclaimed by the audience, however the song is actually named \"Kaafirana\" and will be released under that title worldwide and also on the soundtrack.\n\n\"Music Aloud\" said: \"He may or may not have composed the tunes for the controversy-ridden soundtrack of Jaanemann, but when GV Prakash Kumar actually got to do a credited debut in Bollywood, it turned out to be a rather uninventive one\" and rated it 5/10. \"Score Magazine\", gave it 2 out of 5 stars stating, \"You know something is wrong with an album when the instrumental tracks immensely outshine the vocal tracks. I must mention that each of the songs has a strong underlying melody but gross injustice is done to them by Shirish Kunder's lyrics.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59155839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59155839", "title": "Kerch Strait incident", "text": "Kerch Strait incident\n\nAn international incident occurred on 25 November 2018 when Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) border service coast guard boats fired upon and captured three Ukrainian Navy vessels that had attempted to pass from the Black Sea into the Sea of Azov through the Kerch Strait while on their way to the port of Mariupol. In 2014, Russia annexed the nearby Crimean Peninsula, which is internationally recognised as Ukrainian territory, and later constructed the Crimean Bridge across the strait. Under a 2003 treaty, the strait and the Azov sea are intended to be the shared territorial waters of both countries.\n\nAs the flotilla, which consisted of two gunboats and a tugboat, approached declared Russian territorial waters enroute the Crimean Strait, the Russian coast guard said they repeatedly asked the Ukrainian vessels to leave what they referred to as \"Russian territorial waters\", saying that the vessels failed to comply with the formal procedure for passage through the strait, that the Ukrainian ships had been manoeuvring \"dangerously\", and that they were not responding to radio communications. Ukraine said that it had given advance notice to the Russians that the vessels would be moving through the strait, said that the ships had made radio contact with the Russians, but received no response, and cited the 2003 treaty in asserting freedom of passage through the strait. When the Ukrainian Navy refused to halt their journey, and continued toward the bridge, Russian Coast Guard vessels fired on them and, following a chase, seized the vessels off the coast of Crimea while they were attempting to return to Odessa. Six Ukrainian crew members were injured in the clash, and twenty-four Ukrainian sailors from the captured ships were detained by Russia.\n\nThe Ukrainian government labelled the incident a potential precursor to a Russian invasion, and declared martial law along the border with Russia and in Black Sea coastal areas. The incident took place a few days before the 2018 G20 Buenos Aires summit and was mentioned by Western leaders when they spoke of sanctions against Russia.\n\nRussia annexed Crimea in 2014. The annexation is not officially recognised by the United Nations.\n\nThe Kerch Strait connects the Sea of Azov with the Black Sea, and is formed by the coasts of the Russian Taman Peninsula and disputed Crimea. It is the point of access for ships travelling to and from Ukraine's eastern port cities, most notably Mariupol. While both Ukraine and Russia agreed to the principle of freedom of movement through the strait and the Sea of Azov in 2003 following the Tuzla Island incident, Russia has controlled both sides of the strait since the Crimean annexation. By May 2018, Russia had completed the construction of the Crimean Bridge, which is long and spans the strait, providing a direct land connection between Crimea and Moscow. The bridge's construction was criticised by Ukraine and many other countries, which called it illegal. The Ukrainian and American governments have said that the bridge is being used by Russia as part of a creeping hybrid blockade of Ukrainian ports in the Azov Sea, and that Russian inspections of ships have risen sharply since the bridge opened in May 2018, with some being forced to wait between three and seven days before being allowed through.\n\nOn 23 September 2018, two Ukrainian navy vessels successfully completed the journey from Odessa to Mariupol through the strait. According to Ukrainian Navy Captain 1st rank Dmytro Kovalenko, they had passed the Crimean Bridge without officially requesting permission. They did, however, announce their intent to pass through and received navigational pilot services free of charge. He also claimed that during their journey they had been followed by at least 13 Russian vessels and that Russian aircraft had flown dangerously low over them.\n\nThe incident began in the morning of 25 November, when the Ukrainian s ', ', and tugboat \"\" were transiting from the Black Sea port of Odessa in south-western Ukraine with the intent of reaching the Azov Sea port of Mariupol in eastern Ukraine. Agents of the Ukrainian SBU intelligence service were present onboard the ships. As they approached the Kerch Strait, Russian coast guards boats accused the Ukrainian ships of illegally entering Russian territorial waters, and ordered them to leave. When the Ukrainians refused, citing the 2003 Russo-Ukrainian treaty on freedom of navigation in the relevant area, the Russian boats attempted to intercept them, and rammed \"Yany Kapu\". The Ukrainian vessels continued toward the Crimean Bridge, but were prevented passage into the Sea of Azov by a large tanker positioned under it, which blocked all passage through the strait. Concurrently, Russia scrambled two fighter jets and two helicopters to patrol the strait. The Russian forces then fired on the Ukrainian boats, chased them as they tried to flee back to Odessa, and later captured them about off the coast of Crimea, in international waters.\n\nFollowing the incident, the Ukrainian Navy reported that six servicemen had been injured by the Russian actions. \"Berdyansk\" was damaged in her bridge, either by a Sukhoi Su-30 fighter or by 30 mm naval gunfire from the Russian gunboat \"Izumrud\", according to the Russian version. According to radio communication between the Russian leadership and border guard ships, two Russian ships were damaged. One was damaged while ramming the Ukrainian tugboat \"Yany Kapu\". In addition, the Russian ship \"Don\" also collided with and damaged the Russian ship \"Izumrud\". In the aftermath of the incident, officials from both countries accused the other of provocative behaviour. Ukraine decried the seizure of its ships as illegal. In a statement, the Ukrainian Navy said, \"After leaving the 12-mile zone, the Russian Federation's FSB opened fire at the flotilla belonging to... the armed forces of Ukraine\". Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko convened the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council, describing the Russian actions as \"unprovoked and crazy\".\n\nRussia did not immediately or directly respond to the allegation, but Russian news agencies cited the Federal Security Service (FSB) as saying it had incontrovertible proof that Ukraine had orchestrated what it called a \"provocation\" and would publicise its evidence soon. A report by the Russian FSB said that Ukraine had not followed the official procedure required for passage through the strait, namely that the port authority in Kerch should be informed 48 and 24 hours in advance of any movement, with an official confirmation 4 hours before the passage. It also said the Ukrainian ships had been manoeuvring dangerously and intentionally ignored FSB instructions in order to stir up tensions. Russian politicians, including President Vladimir Putin, denounced the Ukrainian government, saying the incident was a calculated attempt by Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko to increase his popularity ahead of the Ukrainian presidential election next year. The Ukrainian government rejected this, and said it had informed the Russians of the planned passage through the Kerch Strait in advance. Ukrainian Navy spokesman Oleh Chalyk said that \"Yany Kapu\" had \"established contact with a coast-guard outpost\" operated by the FSB Border Service and \"communicated its intention to sail through the Kerch Strait. The information was received [by Russian authorities] but no response was given\". According to Ukraine, contact was established at 03:58 on 25 November, \"according to international rules of the sea navigation safety\". In late September 2018, two Ukrainian navy vessels successfully made the journey from Odessa to Mariupol not using current Russian official procedure, but also contact was established a few hours before the passage.\n\nOn the morning of 26 November, photographs of the captured Ukrainian ships laid up in the Crimean port of Kerch were published. In the photos, small camouflage nets cover the ships' bows. On that day, according to APK-Inform, Ukrainian commercial shipping returned to normal operation after the Kerch Strait was reopened to civilian traffic.\n\nAccording to Ukrainian intelligence, the state of health of the Ukrainian Naval Forces servicemen who were injured in the attack in the Kerch Strait is satisfactory. The injured Ukrainian sailors were being treated at Pirogov Kerch City Hospital No. 1. Other photographs showed significant damage inflicted to the Berdyansk gunboat, including a hole in the bridge, where crewmembers steer the boat. According to Vasyl Hrytsak, the head of Ukraine's security service, two missiles were fired by one of the Russian strike aircraft.\n\nOn 27 November, a Crimean court ordered that 12 of the 24 Ukrainian sailors be detained for 60 days. The following day the 12 remaining Ukrainian sailors, including the three hospitalised, were also officially detained for 60 days by the Kievskiy Raion court of Simferopol. On 29 November, Russian authorities stated that the three hospitalised sailors were discharged from hospital.\n\nOn the evening of 28 November, Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Volodymyr Omelyan said that vessels bound for the ports of Berdyansk and Mariupol awaited entrance to the Sea of Azov and vessels were also waiting to go southbound. He characterised this as a virtual blockade. No vessels were identified as Ukrainian. \n\nUkrainian president Petro Poroshenko convened the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on 25 November. He warned of the threat of a Russian land invasion.\n\nOleksandr Turchynov, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, reportedly said that the incident was an act of war by Russia. He has also stated that active military preparations had been spotted along the border on the Russian side. The National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, in its decision of 26 November, stated that the actions of the Russian Federation against the ships of the Navy of the Armed Forces of Ukraine fall under paragraphs \"c\" and \"d\" of Art. 3 of Resolution 3314 (XXIX) “Definition of aggression”, adopted by the UN General Assembly on 14 December 1974, namely:\n\nOn 26 November 2018, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine held a briefing, where they announced that they viewed the actions of the Russian Federation during the incident as an act of armed aggression in violation of a number of international norms and treaties, including: the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on cooperation in the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerch Strait, article 17 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, part 1 of article 36 of the UN Convention, articles 32 and 95 of the United Nations Convention, article 30 of the UN Convention, and article 2 of the UN Charter.\n\nOn 26 November, a day after the incident, lawmakers in the Ukrainian Parliament overwhelmingly backed the imposition of martial law in the country's coastal regions, and those bordering Russia and unrecognised Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic. A total of 276 members of parliament voted for the measure, which took effect on 28 November 2018, and automatically expires in 30 days. The initial recommendation was for a 60-day enforcement; according to Poroshenko it was amended so not to affect the upcoming elections.\n\nOn 28 November 2018, Ukrainian President Poroshenko said that the incident was provoked by Russia in order to force Ukraine to declare martial law and therefore to prevent Ukraine from receiving its \"tomos\" of autocephaly for the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (see: 2018 Moscow–Constantinople schism).\n\nVice Admiral Ihor Voronchenko said on 29 November that Ukraine would request the closure of the Bosphorus Strait.\n\nPresident Poroshenko during an interview told the German tabloid \"Bild\" that Germany should support Ukraine. Poroshenko also told \"Bild\" that Putin saw Ukraine as a Russian colony.\n\nOn 30 November, Ukraine banned all Russian men between 16 and 60 from entering the country, claiming this is a security measure. It was reported that Russian women were denied entry as well.\n\nRussia's FSB blamed Ukraine for sparking the clashes, saying their \"irrefutable\" evidence \"will soon be made public\".\n\nOn 26 November, the FSB published its detailed chronology of the events of 25 November on its website. The chronology indicated that the Ukrainian vessels failed to follow the advance notification procedures for passage through the Kerch Strait and that Russia did not contest the 2003 Treaty right to freedom of navigation through the strait. Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said on the next day that Ukraine had violated international legal norms by failing to obtain authorisation for its vessels. Deputy Chairman of the State Duma Pyotr Tolstoy warned of the danger of a war.\n\nFollowing the declaration of martial law in Ukraine, Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed \"serious concern\". He later called the event \"a provocation\" and accused Ukraine's President of staging the incident in order to improve his popularity ahead of the 2019 presidential election.\n\nAccording to the state-run RIA Novosti, Russia's military planned to send additional S-400 \"Triumf\" missile batteries to Crimea.\n\nOn 26 November, Russia called for an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). The agenda of that UNSC session, on what Russia described as the \"violation\" of its borders by the Ukrainian navy, was dismissed by seven votes to four, with four abstentions. Russia's first deputy ambassador to the UN, Dmitry Polyanski, said that Russia, being a permanent member of the Security Council, would continue to raise important issues \"under the agenda they relate to.\"\n\nUkraine also called for an emergency meeting of the UNSC over the \"attack\" of Russia. This was confirmed by US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley. Haley said that Russia's actions were an \"outrageous violation\" of Ukraine's territory. She demanded that Russia stop its \"unlawful conduct\" and respect the \"navigational rights and freedoms of all states.\" U.K. Ambassador Karen Pierce condemned Russia's \"deplorable\" military action. U.N. Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs Rosemary DiCarlo said the United Nations was not able to verify the events independently.\n\nOn 27 November, Secretary-General António Guterres, expressed in a statement that he was \"greatly concerned\" about the incident and urges Russia and Ukraine to use \"maximum restraint\" and \"to reduce tensions through all available peaceful means in accordance with the Charter of the UN\".\n\nThe Council of Europe urged deescalation,\nas did the European Union, Spain Bolivia, China Japan, and NATO.\n\nThe President of the European Council Donald Tusk condemned the Russian use of force.\n\nAustralia, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Hungary, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Norway, and Turkey all issued statements criticising Russia's use of force.\n\nUnited States President Donald Trump canceled the planned meeting with the president of Russia Vladimir Putin during the G-20 summit, claiming that the sole reason was the situation with Ukrainian ships and sailors.\n\n\nTwo more tugs brought a cargo ship to block passage under the bridge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51104499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51104499", "title": "List of international prime ministerial trips made by Theresa May", "text": "List of international prime ministerial trips made by Theresa May\n\nThis is a list of international prime ministerial trips made by Theresa May, the current Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. As of , Theresa May has made 60 trips to 32 countries since her premiership began on 13 July 2016.\n\nThe number of visits per country: \n\nThe following international trips are scheduled to be made by Theresa May during 2018:\n\nThe following international trips are scheduled to be made by Theresa May during 2019:\nTheresa May participated in the following summits during her premiership:\n\n"}
{"id": "2570744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2570744", "title": "London Conference of 1832", "text": "London Conference of 1832\n\nThe London Conference of 1832 was an international conference convened to establish a stable government in Greece. Negotiations between the three Great Powers (Britain, France and Russia) resulted in the establishment of the Kingdom of Greece under a Bavarian Prince. The decisions were ratified in the Treaty of Constantinople later that year. The treaty followed the Akkerman Convention which had previously recognized another territorial change in the Balkans, the suzerainty of Principality of Serbia.\n\nGreece had won its independence from the Ottoman Empire in the Greek War of Independence (1821–1829) with the help of Britain, France and Russia. In the London Protocol of 3 February 1830, the three powers had assigned the borders of the new state. However, when the governor of Greece, John Capodistria (Ioannis Kapodistrias) (Καποδíστριας) was assassinated in 1831 in Nafplion, the Greek peninsula plunged into confusion. The Great Powers sought a formal end of the war and a recognized government in Greece.\n\nIn May 1832, British Foreign Secretary Palmerston convened with French and Russian diplomats, and, without consultation of the Greeks, decided that Greece should be a monarchy. The convention offered the throne to the Bavarian Prince, Otto. They also established the line of succession which would pass the crown to Otto's descendants, or his younger brothers should he have no issue. It was also decided that in no case would the crowns of Greece and Bavaria be joined. As co-guarantors of the monarchy, the Great Powers also empowered their ambassadors in Constantinople, the Ottoman capital, to secure the end of the Greek War of Independence.\n\nOn 21 July 1832 British ambassador Sir Stratford Canning and the other representatives concluded the Treaty of Constantinople, which set the boundaries of the new Kingdom of Greece at a line running from Arta (Αρτα) to Volos (Βολος).\n\n"}
{"id": "2591446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2591446", "title": "Meskel", "text": "Meskel\n\nMeskel (, \"mäsqäl\") is an annual religious holiday in the Ethiopian Orthodox and Eritrean Orthodox churches, which commemorates the discovery of the True Cross by the Roman Empress Helena (Saint Helena) in the fourth century. Meskel occurs on the 17 Meskerem in the Ethiopian calendar (September 27, Gregorian calendar, or on 28 September in leap years). \"Meskel\" (or \"Meskal\" or \"Mesqel\", there are various ways to transliterate from Ge'ez to Latin script) is Ge'ez for \"cross\".\n\nThe festival is known as Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross in other Orthodox, Catholic or Protestant churches. The churches that follow the Gregorian calendar celebrate the feast yearly on September 14.\n\nThe feast is held in Meskel Square, named after the festival, in the capital city of Addis Ababa. Religious and civil leaders preside over the celebration,and public figures give speeches and reference biblical themes and stories. Many Ethiopians who live in cities return to their villages to celebrate the national event. When it gets darker, the Demera is burned.\n\nThe Meskel celebration includes the burning of a large bonfire, or \"Demera\", based on the belief that Queen Eleni, as she is known, had a revelation in a dream. She was told that she should make a bonfire and that the smoke would show her where the true cross was buried. So she ordered the people of Jerusalem to bring wood and make a huge pile. After adding frankincense to it the bonfire was lit and the smoke rose high up to the sky and returned to the ground, exactly to the spot where the Cross had been buried. \n\nAccording to local traditions, this \"Demera\"-procession takes place in the early evening the day before Meskel or on the day itself. The firewood is decorated with daisies prior to the celebration. Charcoal from the remains of the fire is afterwards collected and used by the faithful to mark their foreheads with the shape of a cross (compare Ash Wednesday). Edward Ullendorff records a number of beliefs of the meaning of \"Demera\", with some believing that it \"marks the ultimate act in the cancellation of sins, while others hold that the direction of the smoke and the final collapse of the heap indicate the course of future events – just as the cloud of smoke the Lord raised over the Tabernacle offered guidance to the children of Israel (\"Exod.\" 40:34–38).\"\n\nOne explanation for the high rank this festival has in the church calendar is that it is believed that a part of the true Cross has been brought to Ethiopia from Egypt. It is said to be kept at Amba Geshen, which itself has a cross-shaped plan.\n\nAccording to the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, the discovery of the True Cross is traditionally believed to have been in March, but Meskel was moved to September to avoid holding a festival during Lent, and because the church commemorating the True Cross in Jerusalem was dedicated during September. Ullendorff speculates that Meskel replaced an older festival, with pagan and Hebraic associations, which he believes received its Christian sanction around the reign of Emperor Amda Seyon in the fourteenth century. \"The most ancient meaning of these feasts – as was also the case in Israel – was no doubt seasonal: the month of Maskaram marked the end of the rains, the resumption of work, and the reopening of communications.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5830696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5830696", "title": "Millennium Tower (San Francisco)", "text": "Millennium Tower (San Francisco)\n\n301 Mission Street is a development in the South of Market district of downtown San Francisco. A mixed-use, primarily residential development, it is the tallest residential building in San Francisco. The blue-gray glass, late-modernist buildings are bounded by Mission, Fremont, and Beale Streets, and the north end of the Transbay Transit Center site. Opened to residents on April 23, 2009, 301 Mission includes two buildings: a 12-story tower located on the northeast of the property, and Millennium Tower, a 58-story, condominium skyscraper. In total, the project has 419 residential units, with 53 of those units in the smaller tower. The tower's highest level, 58 floors above the ground, is listed as the 60th, because floors 13 and 44 are missing for superstitious reasons. The French restaurant and wine bar \"International Smoke\" is housed on the ground floor of the skyscraper. Resident services include a private concierge and access to the Owner's Club Level, which features amenities such as a private lounge, wine cellar, and fitness center. The development's \"lifestyle\" program organizes cultural events. In May 2016, residents were informed the main tower was both sinking and tilting, resulting in several lawsuits concerning repair costs and whether the tilt had been withheld from buyers. \n\nDeveloped by Mission Street Development LLC, an affiliate of Millennium Partners, the project was designed by Handel Architects, engineered by DeSimone Consulting Engineers and constructed by Webcor Builders. At , it is the tallest concrete structure in San Francisco, the fourth tallest building in San Francisco overall, and the tallest since 345 California Street in 1986. It was also the tallest residential building west of the Mississippi River when finished (later surpassed by The Austonian in Texas). The tower is slender, with each floor containing of floor space. In addition to the 58-story tower, there is a , 11-story tower on the northeast end of the complex. Between the two towers is a , two-story glass atrium. In total, the project has 419 units.\n\nThe residences are pricey; a penthouse unit sold for US$13 million in December 2016. The bottom 25 floors of the main tower are called Residences while the floors from 26 to the top have the name Grand Residences. (As is common in many high-rises, there is no thirteenth floor because of superstitions about triskaidekaphobia. Neither is there a forty-fourth floor, because the number four is considered unlucky by many Asians.) The 53 units in the separate 12-story tower are called the City Residences. Below street level, there are 434 parking spaces in a five-level subterranean garage located under the 11-story tower. The building is located next to the site of the Transbay Transit Center. Overall, the tower's design is intended to resemble a translucent crystal, and is a landmark for the Transbay Redevelopment and the southern skyline of San Francisco.\n\nThe development is also home to International Smoke, a restaurant and bar under the direction of Ayesha Curry and Chef Michael Mina, located on the ground floor of the skyscraper.\n\nMillennium Partners first proposed the development in 2002 with 163 condominiums, 108 rentals and a 136-unit \"extended stay\" hotel rooms. The project was approved in 2003 by the S.F. Planning Commission 4–1 and construction began in 2005. The only against vote came from Planning Commissioner Sue Lee. The development was the first high rise built downtown in 20 years. According to \"Modern Luxury\", a proposed 52-story skyscraper at nearby 80 Natoma by developer Jack Myers which would also have a similar poured concrete construction, was rejected by the city's Department of Building Inspections (DBI) after an outside peer review. The Millennium Tower received no such scrutiny, since Millennium Partners would not submit to a peer review, as that study would have potentially delayed construction by years. Treadwell & Rollo, the geotechnical engineer for Millennium Tower, were also the geotechnical engineer for the scrapped project at 80 Natoma. \n\nOn September 6, 2010, Dan Goodwin, also known as \"SpiderDan\" and \"Skyscraperman\", scaled the outside of the tower using suction cups. Following the climb, Goodwin was arrested by the San Francisco police, who charged him with trespassing and creating a public nuisance.\n\nIn 2013, the building sold its final unit, generating US$750 million in total sales, a 25 percent return on the estimated US$600 million in development costs.\n\nAfter developers apparently disclosed in 2015 that the building was sinking and tilting, the public was notified of the problem in 2016. Treadwell & Rollo's geotechnical design for the foundation of the main tower consists of a concrete slab built on concrete friction piles through the fill and young bay mud, and embedded into dense Colma sand. A number of other buildings in 301 Mission Street’s area have used similar systems, although due to varying earth conditions, others have pushed piles directly into the bedrock below. An examination in 2016 showed the building had sunk with a tilt at the base and an approximate tilt at the top of the tower. The building is leaning toward the northwest, and has caused cracks in the building's basement and the pavement surrounding the tower. As of 2018, the sinking has increased to 18 inches with a lean of 14 inches.\n\nThe developer blames the sinking problem on the Transbay Joint Powers Authority (TJPA), who were responsible for construction of the neighboring Transbay Transit Center (TTC). However, the sinking problem had reportedly started before TTC construction even broke ground, and TJPA asserted the building had already settled , well past the original maximum vertical settling prediction of in 20 years, by the time TJPA began removing the timber piles under the prior Transbay Terminal in 2011. The building's homeowners association, represented by general counsel Adrian Adams of Adams Stirling PLC, retained Dan Petrocelli of O’Melveny & Myers, to sue Webcor, Millennium Partners, and the TJPA. Originally, the homeowners association had hired David Casselman to sue the TJPA instead of developer Millennium Partners, as Casselman noted that \"inverse condemnation law allows residents to collect legal fees on top of any award, whereas suing the developer will steer up to 40 percent of any award to lawyers\". \n\nAnother group of tenants who disagree with the homeowners association, led by resident and patent litigator Jerry Dodson, is suing Millennium Partners, the City of San Francisco, and the TJPA. In breaking with Casselman and the homeowners association, Dodson has regarded Millennium Partners as the responsible culprit.\n\nIn November 2016, the city of San Francisco filed suit against the tower's developer Mission Street Developers LLC, claiming that the developers withheld information on the sinking problems from potential apartment buyers. Mission Street Developers rejected the city's claims.\n\nSage Engineers has been hired by Millennium Partners to provide an engineering study on the sinking problem. Some experts have prognosticated that the cost to fix the tilt could exceed the liability insurance held by Millennium Partners and the building's various construction vendors. If the TJPA is found to be at fault, San Francisco taxpayers could end up paying for the repairs.\n\n, a city inspection has found that the building is still safe to occupy, though there has been damage to the foundation and electrical system.\n\nIn March 2017, the homeowners association filed suit against Millennium Partners, Webcor, Handel Architects, Treadwell & Rollo, Langan, DeSimone Consulting Engineers, Arup, and Transbay Joint Powers Authority. They are seeking $200 million to cover repairs and damages.\n\nIn early September 2018, residents reported hearing various \"creaking sounds\". At around 2:30 a.m. on the morning of Saturday, September 8, 2018, residents reported hearing a loud \"popping sound\". On Sunday, the following day, a resident located in a corner unit on the 36th floor discovered a cracked window. The glass used in the building's windows and facade is rated to withstand hurricane force winds, leading to concern that the crack was a symptom of a much larger structural failure. On October 2, 2018 after an investigation by an architectural engineering firm hired by the homeowners association, it was announced that the cracked window was caused by an \"exterior impact\" and not related to the building sinking and movement.\n\nThe building has garnered several awards from several engineering and architectural organisations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7406979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7406979", "title": "New states of Germany", "text": "New states of Germany\n\nThe new federal states of Germany () are the five re-established states in the former East Germany that acceded to the Federal Republic of Germany with its 10 states upon German reunification on 3 October 1990.\n\nThe new states, which were dissolved by the East German government in 1952 and were re-established in 1990, are Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia. The state of Berlin, the result of a merger between East and West Berlin, is usually not considered one of the new states, although many of its residents are former East Germans.\n\nSince the reunification, Germany thus consists of 16 states with equal legal statuses. Yet the process of the \"inner reunification\" between the former East and West Germany is still ongoing.\n\nPersisting differences in culture and mentality among the old East Germany and old West Germany are often referred to as the \"wall in the head\" (\"Mauer im Kopf\"). \"Ossis\" (\"Easties\") are stereotyped as racist, poor and largely influenced by Russian culture. \"Wessis\" (\"Westies\") are usually considered snobbish, dishonest, wealthy, and selfish. The terms can be considered disparaging.\n\nIn 2009, twenty years after the fall of the wall, a poll found that 22% of former East Germans (40% of under-25s) considered themselves \"real citizens of the Federal Republic\". 62% feel in a kind of limbo, no longer citizens of East Germany but not fully integrated into the unified Germany. Around 11% would have liked to have East Germany back. A 2004 poll found that 25% of West Germans and 12% of East Germans wished reunification had not happened.\n\nSome East German brands have been revived, appealing to former East Germans who are nostalgic for the goods they grew up with. Brands revived in this manner include , which holds about 40% of the German sparkling wine market, and , the sport shoe maker that supplied most of East Germany's sports teams and also the Soviet Union national football team.\n\nPornography and prostitution were outlawed in the GDR as forms of exploitation, and West Germans commonly believe that those who grew up in the GDR are more sexually inhibited than their western counterparts. Nonetheless, better access to higher education and jobs along with free abortion, contraception and generous family policies made East German women generally more promiscuous with respect to their sex life. Another notable difference is the attitude towards naturism or FKK (short for \"Freikörperkultur\") in German. While it existed in both East and West, only in the East was it a mass cultural phenomenon in which almost everybody participated. This can still be seen at beaches of former East Germany compared to their West German counterparts.\n\nMore children are born out of wedlock in eastern Germany than in western Germany. In 2009, in eastern Germany 61% of births were to unmarried women, while in western Germany 27% were. The states of Saxony-Anhalt and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania had the highest rate of birth outside wedlock, each with 64%, followed by Brandenburg with 62%. The state of Baden-Württemberg had the lowest rate with 22%, followed by Hesse and Bavaria, each with 26%.\n\nIrreligion is predominant in the eastern part of Germany, which is considered to be the least religious region in the world. An exception is former West Berlin, which had a Christian plurality in 2016 (44.4% Christian and 43.5% unaffiliated). It also has a higher share of Muslims, at 8.5%, compared to former East Berlin with only 1.5% self-declared Muslims as of 2016. On the other hand, Christianity is the dominant religion of Western Germany, excluding Hamburg, which has a non-religious plurality. \nOn 26 April 2009, a referendum () was held on whether Berlin pupils should be allowed to choose between the ethics class, a compulsory class introduced in all Berlin schools in 2006, and a religion class. The SPD, the Left Party and Greens supported the \"Pro Ethics\" camp for a \"No\" vote, stressing that the ethics class should remain compulsory, and pupils could voluntarily take an extra religion class alongside it if they so chose; the CDU and FDP supported the \"Pro Reli\" camp for a \"Yes\" vote, wanting to give pupils a free choice. In East Berlin, an overwhelming majority of 74.62% voted against the introduction of religious education. In West Berlin, only 41.41% voted \"No\". In total, 51.5% voted \"No\" and 48.4% voted \"Yes\".\n\nThe economic reconstruction of eastern Germany () is proving to be longer-term than originally foreseen. The standard of living and average annual income remain significantly lower in the new federal states.\n\nReunification cost the federal government €2 trillion. At reunification, almost all East German industry was considered outdated. The government privatised 8,500 state-owned East German enterprises. Since 1990, between €100 billion and €140 billion a year have been transferred to the new states. More than $60 billion were spent supporting businesses and building infrastructure in the years 2006-2008.\n\nA €156 billion economic plan, Solidarity Pact II, came into force in 2005, and provides the financial basis for the advancement and special promotion of the economy of the new federal states until 2019. The \"solidarity tax\", a 5.5% surcharge on the income tax, was instated by the Kohl government to restore the infrastructure of the new states to the levels of the western ones and to apportion the cost of unification as well as the expenses of the Gulf War and of European integration. The tax, which raises €11 billion a year, will be maintained until 2019 at least.\n\nEver since reunification, the unemployment rate in the east has been almost twice that of the west. The unemployment rate reached 12.7% in April 2010, after having reached a maximum of 18.7% in 2005. In the decade 1999-2009, economic activity per person has risen from 67% to 71% of western Germany. According to Wolfgang Tiefensee, the minister then responsible for the development of the new federal states, in 2009, \"The gap is closing.\" Eastern Germany is also the part of the country least affected by the 2007-2008 financial crisis.\n\nAll the new federal states, excluding Berlin, qualify as \"Objective 1\" development regions within the European Union, and are eligible to receive investment subsidies of up to 30% until 2013.\n\nThe \"German Unity Transport Projects\" (, VDE) is a programme launched in 1991 and meant to upgrade the infrastructure of eastern Germany, and modernise transport links between the old and new federal states.\n\nThe programme consists of nine railway and seven motorway projects, as well as one waterway project, with a total funding of €38.5 billion. As of 2009, all 17 projects are either under construction or have already been completed. The construction of new railway lines and high-speed upgrades of existing lines reduced journey times between Berlin and Hanover from over four hours to 96 minutes. Due to increasing car usage and depopulation since reunification, many railway lines (branches and main lines) have been closed by the unified Deutsche Bahn (German Railways). Some main lines are still not finished or upgraded according to the VDE, with the Leipzig-Nuremberg line (via Erfurt and part of the Munich-Berlin route) scheduled to come on-line in December 2017, almost three decades after reunification. Some lines, even those connecting large cities, are still in a worse state then they were in the 1930s, with travel time from Berlin to Dresden slower in 2015 than in 1935.\n\n\"DEGES\" (\"Deutsche Einheit Fernstraßenplanungs- und -bau GmbH\", German Unity Road Construction Company) is the state-owned project management institution responsible for the construction of approximately 1,360 km of federal roads within the VDE, with a total investment of €10.2 billion. It is also involved in other transport projects, including 435 km of roads costing about €1,760 million as well as a city tunnel in Leipzig, at the cost of €685 million.\n\nThe Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan 2003 includes plans for the extension of the A14 motorway from Magdeburg to Schwerin and construction of the A72 from Chemnitz to Leipzig.\n\nPrivate ownership rates of cars have markedly increased since 1990: in 1988, 55% of East German households had at least one car, in 1993 this had already risen to 67%, and to 71% in 1998. This compares to the West German rates of 61% in 1988, 74% in 1993 and 76% in 1998.\n\nUnlike the West, there was a three-party system (SPD, CDU, PDS/The Left) until the rise of the AfD, which has led to a four-party system. Since 2009 at least four factions have been represented in each of the East German regional parliaments, in Saxony even six, while in 1998/1999, for example, only one of the regional parliaments included more than three factions.\n\nIn the East, there is usually a low turnout at elections.\n\nThe East German Länder have - with the exception of the regional conference of the heads of government of the East German states (MPK-Ost) - no joint state or public representation.\n\nWhile \"only\" 56% want better relations with Russia in the West, 66% of the population of the former Soviet satellite state want better relations with Russia after 28 years (and above all the stronger parties in the East: AfD 74% and the Left 71%).\n\nThe socialist party The Left (\"Die Linke\", successor to the \"Party of Democratic Socialism\", the GDR state party's successor) has been successful throughout eastern Germany, perhaps as a result of the continued disparity of living conditions and salaries compared with western Germany, and high unemployment. Since its association with the WASG, The Left mostly loses in state elections, and has been losing members since 2010.\n\nHistorically, in the German Empire and the Weimar Republic the strongholds of the SPD, USPD and KPD were Thuringia, Brandenburg, Berlin, Saxony-Anhalt and Saxony.\n\nThe Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS), and The Left from 2005, have achieved the following vote shares in recent elections:\n\nDue to the loss of votes to the AfD, the Left plans to establish a regional group East.\n\nAfter 1990, far-right and German nationalist groups gained followers. Some sources claim mostly among people frustrated by the high unemployment and the poor economic situation. \"Der Spiegel\" also points out that these people are mostly single men and that there may also be socio-demographic reasons. Since around 1998 the Party stronghold moved from the south of Germany to the east.\n\nAlready in the German Empire and the Weimar Republic the strongholds of the German Conservative Party (DKP), German National People's Party (DNVP) and Nazi Party (NSDAP) they were Pomerania, Lower Silesia, East Prussia and Brandenburg. (Prussia)\n\nThe Far-right party German People's Union (DVU) was since 1998 in Saxony-Anhalt and in Brandenburg sice 1999. A study of the University of Berlin from 1998/99 comes to 13% for the whole of Germany, and 12% for the West and 17% for the East for right-wing extremist recruitment potential.\n\nIn May 2001, the Düsseldorf Federal Party Congress of the FDP decided the strategy, the \"Strategy 18\" which is premised by Jürgen Möllemann as a goal. Jürgen Möllemann stood behind Jamal Karsli who is criticized as anti-Semitic, Möllemann was criticized by the then FDP leader Guido Westerwelle that he wanted to make the FDP a right-wing populist party and got the backing of Jörg Haider. The name referred to the election goal of tripling the share of electoral votes from 6 to 18%. In the midst of controversy over a possibly associated right-wing populist orientation, the FDP ultimately achieved 7.4% and moved away from the course after the election, but gained in all new states in 2002 between 3.6% in Saxony and 2.4% in East Berlin.\nAt the Saxony-Anhalt state election, 2002 failed, the right-wing populist Schill party just short of the 5% threshold (4.5%) and the FDP moved into the state parliament. In East-Berlin election, 2001 won the FDP 5.3% (+4.2%) and in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern just short of the 5% threshold (4.7%)\n\nThe National Democratic Party of Germany (NPD) won 9.2% of the vote in 2004 state parliament elections in Saxony, and the party has eight seats in the state parliament in Dresden, just behind the 13 held by the Social Democrats. In 2004 won the DVU votes in Brandenburg (+0.8%). In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern was the NPD represented since 2006.\n\nIn the Saxony state election of September 2009 the NPD lost votes (-3.6%) and seats (-4), while in the same month the German People's Union lost its representation in the Landtag of Brandenburg.\n\nA survey of 14- to 25-year-olds carried out by the Forsa opinion poll institute in 2007 found that one out of two youths in eastern Germany now believe that National Socialism had \"its good sides\".\n\nIn 2009, Junge Landsmannschaft Ostdeutschland, which is supported by the NPD, organized a march on the anniversary of the Bombing of Dresden in World War II. There were 6,000 Nationalists, met by tens of thousands of ″anti-Nazis″ and several thousand police.\n\nThe Free Voters of Germany emerged in 2009 from the Land Brandenburg regional branch of Free Voters, after this had been excluded because of \"signs of right infiltration\" from the Federal Association of Free Voters Germany.\n\nIn the Mecklenburg-Vorpommern state election, 2011, the NPD lost 1.3% and 1 seat, but won in Saxony-Anhalt compared with the DVU 1.6%.\n\nIn the German federal election, 2013, Alternative for Germany (AfD) had its strongest vote in Eastern Germany, and again in 2017. The party is seen as having an anti-immigration approach.\n\nThe Pegida has its focus in East Germany. According to a survey by TNS Emnid, in mid-December 2014, 53% of East Germans in each case understood the PEGIDA demonstrators. (48% in the West)\n\nIn 2014, the NPD in Saxony cut short on the threshold (4.9%), but AfD entered the state parliaments in Saxony, Brandenburg and Thuringia.\n\nIn 2016, AfD reached at least 17% in Saxony-Anhalt, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (where the NPD lost all seats) and East Berlin; whereas they won up to 15% in Baden-Württemberg, Rhineland-Palatinate and West Berlin.\n\nIn 2015, Rhineland-Palatinate interior minister Roger Lewentz said the former communist states were ″more susceptible″ to ″xenophobic radicalization″ because Eastern Germany had not had the same exposure to foreign people and cultures over a period of decades that the people in the west of the country have had.\n\nIn the 2017 Federal Election, AfD reached ~ 22% in the East and ~ 11% in the West. The AfD became even the strongest party in Saxony.\n\nNon-mainstream parties, especially the AfD and The Left, receive a large number of protest votes in Eastern Germany, which quickly causes voter shifting from left to right and vice versa.\n\nThe Pirate Party Germany were chosen slightly more frequently in the East (10.1 percent) than in the West (8.1 percent) of the city. Among the under-30s in East Berlin, the pirates with 20 percent were even the second strongest party. For example, none of the parties elected to the Berlin House of Representatives in 2011 lost such a high proportion of their voters to the AfD as the pirates at the next election in 2016, namely 16%. This and other finding suggests that some of their voters, like the AfD, regard the Pirate Party primarily as a protest party.\n\nThe election slogans of the DVU in the regional elections in Saxony-Anhalt in 1998 were directed primarily against the already represented in parliament politicians: \"Not the people - the political bigwigs will dole!\" And \"German let's not make the sow you. DVU - The protest in the election against dirty things from above \". In particular, politically dissatisfied people were advertised with the slogan \"vote protest - vote German\". At the time, the DVU stood at 12.9%.\n\nIn 1991, the parliamentary group of the PDS demanded in its draft for a constitution the right of Thuringia to leave the Federal Republic of Germany. However, the group could not prevail with its draft.\n\nTatjana Festerling she was after the withdrawal of Kathrin Oertel from February 2015 to mid-April 2016, a leader in the Dresden Pegida demonstrations, they demanded on October 12, 2015 the \"Säxit\" - meaning the secession of Saxony from the Federal Republic of Germany - after she had already demanded the rebuilding of German border installations on 9 March 2015.\n\nThe former East German states have experienced significant depopulation and extremely low birth rates since 1990, with a recovery in recent years. About 1.7 million people have left the new federal states since the fall of the Berlin Wall, or 12% of the population. A disproportionately high number of them were women under 35. In fact about 500,000 women aged under 30 have left for western Germany in the past 15 years.\n\nAfter 1990, the fertility rate in the East dropped to 0.77. In 2006, the rates in the new states (1.30) was approaching those in the West (1.34), and is now higher (1.64 vs 1.60 in West, year 2016). Since 1989, about 2,000 schools have closed because of a paucity of children.\n\nIn some regions the number of women between the ages of 20 and 30 has dropped by more than 30 percent. In 2004, in the age group 18-29 (statistically important for starting families) there were only 90 women for every 100 men in the new federal states (including Berlin). In parts of the state of Thuringia, there are 82 women for every 100 men. The town of Königstein has the biggest demographic imbalance in Europe between young men and women. This is in contrast to many areas in Europe as many cities across the continent suffer an imbalance of younger women to men. This has led to the concern to local leaders, as a large imbalance of males to females is usually linked to historical social instabilities and increased crime rates.\n\nAround 300,000 homes have been demolished in recent years. In parts of eastern Germany, wolves and lynx have reappeared after many decades.\n\nBrandenburg had a population of 2,660,000 in 1989, and 2,447,700 in March 2013. It has the second lowest population density in Germany. In 1995, it became the only new state to experience population growth, aided by the vicinity of Berlin.\n\nMecklenburg-Vorpommern had a population of 1,970,000 in 1989, and 1,598,000 in March 2013, with the lowest population density in Germany. The local Landtag held several inquiries over population trends, the opposition has requested an annual report on the topic.\n\nSaxony had a population of 5,003,000 in 1989, which fell to 4,044,000 in March 2013. It still remains the most populous among the five new states. The proportion of the population under 20 fell from 24.6% in 1988 to 19.7% in 1999. Dresden and Leipzig are among the fastest growing cities in Germany both rising their population over half a million inhabitants again and in strong contrast to the other districts of Saxony.\n\nSaxony-Anhalt had a population of 2,960,000 in 1989, and 2,253,000 in March 2013. The state has a long history of demographic decline: its current territory had a population of 4,100,000 in 1945. The emigration already began during the GDR years.\n\nThuringia had a population of 2,680,000 in 1989, and 2,166,000 in March 2013. In Thuringia, the migration has less of an impact than the decrease of the fertility rate. Former Minister-President Bernhard Vogel called for a stop to the exodus of skilled workers and young people.\n\nTotal change in population of former East Germany is from 15.273 million in 1989, just before reunification, to 12.509 million in 2013, a decrease of 18.1%.\n\nThere are more migrants in West Germany than in the East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4154727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4154727", "title": "Opération Nez rouge", "text": "Opération Nez rouge\n\nOpération Nez rouge (literally, \"Operation Red Nose\"), founded in 1984, is an escorting service offered in Quebec and several francophone countries, as well as other places in Canada using both the French name and Operation Red Nose during the Christmas holiday season.\n\nThe escorting service is offered to anyone who does not feel capable of driving due to alcohol consumption, fatigue, or any reason. Although it is a free service, donations are accepted. \n\nEach year during the holiday season, an advertising campaign reminds the public to use the service if necessary.\n\nWhen needing a ride, the client first calls the organization. The client must have his/her own car—it is not a taxi service. An escort team of three volunteers arrives. One volunteer, the 'escort driver', uses his or her own car to drive the other two volunteers to the client's location. The 'designated driver' volunteer then drives the client home in the client's own car. The third volunteer is the 'navigator', and drives with the designated driver and client, collecting any donation that the client should want to make, giving the client a receipt, and making conversation with the client so the client does not bother the driver. When the ride is over, the escort driver picks up the designated driver and the navigator.\n\nOriginally donations went to the swimming team of Université Laval, but the organization became so successful that today donations go to 150 organizations. The costs of Operation Nez Rouge are covered by sponsors (such as insurance companies.)\n\nOperation Nez Rouge was started in 1984 in Quebec City by Jean-Marie De Koninck, who had two goals. He wanted to finance Université Laval's swimming team and he wanted to do something to fight driving under the influence. He knew that drivers leaving bars refused taxis to bring them home when intoxicated, not because of the cost, but because they wanted to have their own cars the next day. Thus came the idea to simply offer an escorting service.\n\nThe service was used 1,205,894 times between 1984 and 2004.\n\nhttps://www.operationnezrouge.com\n"}
{"id": "1845688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1845688", "title": "Osawatomie Brown", "text": "Osawatomie Brown\n\nOsawatomie Brown is a play, by Kate Edwards, about John Brown's struggle with pro-slavery forces in Kansas which brought him national attention and made him a hero to many Northern abolitionists. With only two dozen men he successfully defended the free-soil town of Osawatomie, Kansas (on August 30) against an attack of about 400 men, earning him the nickname \"Osawatomie Brown.\" Brown's play premiered just two weeks after Brown's execution.\n"}
{"id": "13400127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13400127", "title": "Paris Conference on Passports &amp; Customs Formalities and Through Tickets", "text": "Paris Conference on Passports &amp; Customs Formalities and Through Tickets\n\nThe Paris Conference on Passports & Customs Formalities and Through Tickets was a conference organised by the League of Nations in 1920 which agreed, for the first time, on a set of standards for all passports issued by members of the League. Prior to that time, there were no internationally agreed standards for passports because they were not generally required for travel until World War I.\n"}
{"id": "45689618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45689618", "title": "Peng Collective", "text": "Peng Collective\n\nThe Peng Collective is a group of culture jamming activists based in Berlin. In 2016, the collective was part of the Berlin Biennale, in 2018 of the Manifesta Biennale and the Athens Biennale. In 2018, they where awarded the Aachen Peace Prize.\n\nThrough actions of tactical media, the Peng Collective wants to inspire other activists and civil society organisations to be more courageous in their campaigning methods. \"Let's learn from our enemies,\" one of their members says in an interview. \"If you look at the economics of corporations, their state of mind is: 'let's look at every possible gray area of laws and use them.' And NGOs just don't do that.\" They are known for wearing animal masks as sign of biological appropriation whenever they are on stage and to break the law \"whenever necessary for the greater good. And yes, the arts can be a greater good.\"\n\nThey got international media attention, when they held a presentation called \"Your data, our future\" in the Name of Google at Europe's largest tech conference in 2014. All presented products were designed to gather more data from the consumers, claiming that this is in their best interest. After Google threatened them to take down their parody website, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) supported them legally:\n\nInvited as fake persona to a conference of the oil company Shell, they created an oil spill on stage instead of the expected presentation. The evening was a public relations event organized by Burson Marsteller in Berlin, where one member of the Collective could enter the stage because he claimed to have created a car that is cleaning the air.\n\nIn 2015, the group infiltrated the Cinema for Peace Gala in Berlin with a fake polar bear and The Yes Men to go on stage and insist that divestment from fossil fuels is helping more against climate change than charity projects. Pussy Riot, who was invited as speaker to the charity gala came to support them, when the organizers of the event tried to silence them with security guards.\n\nIn May 2015, they developed a bot script that scans Twitter for abusive and sexist language. Once detected, plenty of automated Twitter profiles would reply to those tweets with an invitation to a self-help program for trolls to become feminists.\n\nIn September 2015, the Peng Collective staged an association named Intelexit helping anyone working for secret services to quit their jobs and transition to civil life, be it for ethical or psychological reasons. A spokesman of the British secret service GCHQ responded to the launch of the association, that GCHQ doesn't actually do anything illegal or immoral, and that staff can report any concerns they do have to managers or to GCHQ's own counselors. Furthermore, they responded to the Intelexits critique of their lack of ethical standards that the GCHQ \"has several formal lines of accountability and a culture and ethos of high ethical standards among our workforce.\" \n\nDuring the launch of the campaign, they rallied with an advertising trucks and mobile billboards in front of several secret services workplaces around the world like the German BND, the GCHQ Headquarters in the UK, the US military bases in Germany Dagger Complex and Lucius D. Clay Kaserne and the NSA's Headquarters in the USA, Maryland, where they also drove to the employees lunch place Café Joe They also performed an airborne leaflet operation over the Dagger Complex with a drone advertising for the exit program.\n\nIntelexit now operates phone booth installations in arts and journalists venues where participants can call up secret service employees such as the FBI, NSA, CIA and private subcontractors like Trovicor or Booz Allen Hamilton in the USA, but also officers from Germany, France, Canada and Great Britain. The organisation invites people to set up the call installation all over the world to create an ongoing dialogue between civil society and the intelligence community.\n\nIn Schwenke (Halver), Peng! had founded a fictitious CDU local association, which appealed to party leader Angela Merkel to campaign against the export of small arms in the next legislative period. This appeal was also reported in international media. Later the communication guerrilla action was confirmed by Peng!\n\nIn the same week, Peng! started an alleged recall of small arms from the manufacturer Heckler & Koch by sending letters to US arms dealers on its behalf. The web pages of Heckler & Koch in the USA and Germany were then provided for several days with the news that they had been the victims of a hacker attack and fake news.\n\nIn the same week, the group released a video documenting how they awarded a peace prize for the arms industry and how Thyssen Krupp Marine Systems only left shortly before the alleged award ceremony.\n\nAs part of this series of actions, Peng! published five legislative proposals for the renewal of the War Weapons Control Act and for the \"Rescue of Article 26 GG\".\n\nWith this Campaign PENG called people to snatch goods in supermarkets and to pay unions of the producers in the global south instead. They created an online-system with which it is possible to do so through their website, seemingly an online-shop. You can thus pay eight unions fighting for the rights of the workers while PENG is fighting for the introduction of a law in Germany with which you can take German companies accountable for the violation of human rights abroad.\n\nPENG created a photo-booth in which you could create portraits that contain your own face and from someone else by morphing them together. The technology was based on neural networks by OpenAI and megapixels by Adam Harvey. They themselves created a German passport that contained both one member from their team and Federica Mogherini. They also sent five passports to co-artists in Libya with whom they morphed the faces to let them enter Europa as both real and symbolic gesture of civil disobedience against the border regime.. The photo booth was further shown in Vienna and Munich on art exhibitions.\n\nOn the Athens Biennale 2018 named \"ANTI\", Peng contributed by installing a call center with six Greek employees payed by German tax money on minimum wage who are calling the financial regulation institutions for six weeks. They ask tem questions that are being posted on their website and try to get them to explain the logic of financial argumentation in understandable language. .\n\n"}
{"id": "25182134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25182134", "title": "Peter Pan (1976 musical)", "text": "Peter Pan (1976 musical)\n\nPeter Pan is a 1976 American made-for-television musical film adaptation of J.M. Barrie's \"Peter Pan, or the Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up\" starring Mia Farrow as Peter Pan and Danny Kaye as Captain Hook, and with Sir John Gielgud narrating. Julie Andrews sang one of the songs, \"Once Upon a Bedtime\", off-camera over the opening credits. It aired as a presentation of \"Hallmark Hall of Fame\" on NBC at 7:30pm on Sunday, December 12, 1976, capping off the program's 25th year on the air.\n\nThe program did not use the score written for the highly successful Mary Martin version which had previously been televised many times on NBC. Instead, it featured 14 new and now forgotten songs, written for the production by Anthony Newley and Leslie Bricusse. The story was adapted by Andrew Birkin (who would subsequently become a leading Barrie scholar) and Jack Burns. Although it was an American production with two American stars, most of the cast was British.\n\nThis version of \"Peter Pan\" won an Emmy for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Children's Programming for Jenn de Joux's and Elizabeth Savel's visual effects, and was nominated for Outstanding Children's Special, however it was not rebroadcast. But it was featured in 2011 at the Paley Center in New York City as part of the New York Musical Theatre Festival.\n\n(alphabetically)\n\nIn 1976, this was the second of two TV musical adaptations of a children's classic starring Danny Kaye and a female as a young boy. On March 27, 1976, CBS teleast \"Pinocchio\" with Kaye as Gepetto and Sandy Duncan in the title role.\n"}
{"id": "8580596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8580596", "title": "Phone cloning", "text": "Phone cloning\n\nPhone cloning is the copying of identity from one cellular device to another.\n\nAnalogue mobile telephones were notorious for their lack of security. Casual listeners easily heard conversations as plain narrowband FM; eavesdroppers with specialized equipment readily intercepted handset Electronic Serial Numbers (ESN) and Mobile Directory Numbers (MDN or CTN, the Cellular Telephone Number) over the air. The intercepted ESN/MDN pairs would be cloned onto another handset and used in other regions for making calls. Due to widespread fraud, some carriers required a PIN before making calls or used a system of radio fingerprinting to detect the clones.\n\nCode Division Multiple Access (CDMA) mobile telephone cloning involves gaining access to the device's embedded file system /nvm/num directory via specialized software or placing a modified EEPROM into the target mobile telephone, allowing the Electronic serial number (ESN) and/or Mobile Equipment Identifier (MEID) of the mobile phone to be changed. To obtain the MEID of your phone, simply open your phone's dialler and type *#06# to get its MEID number. The ESN or MEID is typically transmitted to the cellular company's Mobile Telephone Switching Office (MTSO) in order to authenticate a device onto the mobile network. Modifying these, as well as the phone's Preferred Roaming List (PRL) and the mobile identification number, or MIN, can pave the way for fraudulent calls, as the target telephone is now a clone of the telephone from which the original ESN and MIN data were obtained.\n\nCloning has been shown to be successful on CDMA, but rare on GSM. However, cloning of a GSM phone is achieved by cloning the SIM card contained within, but not necessarily any of the phone's internal data. GSM phones do not have ESN or MIN, only an International Mobile Station Equipment Identity (IMEI) number. There are various methods used to obtain the IMEI. The most common methods are to hack into the cellular company, or to eavesdrop on the cellular network.\n\nA GSM SIM card is copied by removing the SIM card and placing a device between the handset and the SIM card and allowing it to operate for a few minutes and extracting the K, or secret code. This is normally done with handsets that have the option of an \"extended battery\" by placing the normal size battery in the handset and the K in the now vacant extra space. This is done by allowing the device to log the interaction between the mobile telephone switching office and the handset.\n\nPhone cloning is outlawed in the United States by the Wireless Telephone Protection Act of 1998, which prohibits \"knowingly using, producing, trafficking in, having control or custody of, or possessing hardware or software knowing that it has been configured to insert or modify telecommunication identifying information associated with or contained in a telecommunications instrument so that such instrument may be used to obtain telecommunications service without authorization.\"\n\nThe effectiveness of phone cloning is limited. Every mobile phone contains a radio fingerprint in its transmission signal which remains unique to that mobile despite changes to the phone's ESN, IMEI, or MIN. Thus, cellular companies are often able to catch cloned phones when there are discrepancies between the fingerprint and the ESN, IMEI, or MIN.\n\n"}
{"id": "36173127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36173127", "title": "Potato movement", "text": "Potato movement\n\nThe Potato Movement () is a grassroots socio-agriculture movement in Greece. The movement consists of Greek farmers setting up co-ops and selling potatoes directly to the Greek public in response to cheap potato imports from Egypt and other countries.\n"}
{"id": "12255874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12255874", "title": "Prebilovci massacre", "text": "Prebilovci massacre\n\nThe Prebilovci massacre was an atrocity perpetrated by the Croatian Ustaše in the Independent State of Croatia during the World War II persecution of Serbs. On 6 August 1941, the Ustaša killed around 600 women and children from the village of Prebilovci, Herzegovina, by throwing them alive into the Golubinka pit, near Šurmanci. \n\nDuring the summer of 1941, the Ustaša continued with mass murders of Serbs – of 1,000 inhabitants of Prebilovci, 820 of them were killed, while in the neighbouring places of the lower basin of the Neretva river, including Šurmanci, around 4000 Serbs were killed. The Golubinka pit was covered with concrete in 1961.\n\nDuring the Second World War the Serb inhabitants of Prebilovci, a small village near Čapljina, fell victim to genocide. At the beginning of 1941, the village had a population of 1,000. Earlier, it had given volunteers to join the Bosnian-Herzegovinian uprising against the Turks in 1875-78, and contributed 20 volunteers to the Serbian Army in Salonica during World War I. \n\nMany villagers died as prisoners in the Austro-Hungarian Empire concentration camps. Croat nationalists reportedly harboured hatred at Prebilovci's contribution to the World War I Serbian army. Prebilovci was surrounded on the night of 4 August 1941 by some 3,000 Ustaša made up of the village's Croats.\n\nIn August 1941, some 650 women and children were taken away from their homes, moved to Šurmanci where they were later thrown into natural pits around that area — either dead or half-dead according to accounts – together with a thousand or so other Serbs from the Čapljina and Mostar municipalities. The men were in the mountains, hiding, in the deluded belief that the Croats would not harm their women and children.\n\nThe Serbs of Prebilovci were herded together with other Serbs from the western part of Herzegovina and eventually six carloads of them were sent off on a train that was supposedly to take them to Belgrade. They were ordered out of the six cars they occupied at a town called Šurmanci, on the west bank of the Neretva, and marched off into the hills never to return.\n\nAtrocities began in the villages including the killing of 50 infants who were swung by their legs so that their heads could be dashed against the school wall. There was continuous rape of young girls both there and at other locations. On 6 August, 150 Ustaša under Ivan Jovanović (known as \"Blacky\") were joined by another 400 Ustaša from Čapljina, and took the prisoners in rail cattle-cars to Vranac, some 500 to 1,000 m from the Golubinka pit, one of many such natural, near-vertical cave formations in the region, where some 550 Ustaša took small groups of prisoners to the pit and, family-by-family, pushed them into it. The initial vertical fall was some 27 m, followed by a 100 m steep slope to the base of the pit. Small children were thrown up into the air before falling into the pit. One woman is known to have given birth as she fell into the pit. The newborn infant died with her under the crush of bodies.\n\nHere is how the Catholic Bishop of Mostar, Alojzije Mišić, described this and other massacres perpetrated by the Ustasha around the city of Mostar, in his letter to Bishop Alojzije Stepinac, dated 7 November 1941:\n\nOne entire clan of 78 persons died in the crush of the Golubinka pit near the village of Šurmanci. And after all were pushed into it, the Ustaša sat around drinking and celebrating. Only 170 villagers survived. Forty-five survived the crush of the pits and escaped later to tell of the disaster. 300 children and infants were massacred that day alone.\n\nA group of 170 villagers, which primarily consisted of men, survived the massacre. Two Roman Catholic priests, Ilija Tomas and Marko Hovko, were among the murderers. Few of the Ustaša who took part were tried after the war had ended. Only 14 of the 550 known Ustaša were brought to trial after the war, and one of the judges was himself an Ustaša close to the crime. Six were sentenced to death, the remainder received prison sentences, the majority around three years.\n\nThe Golubinka pit was opened in 1990 when Serbian priests headed by patriarch Pavle entered it and held a memorial service over the remnants of the victims. Around 1550 remnants were taken out from the pit. In 1991, on the 50th anniversary of the massacre, some 4000 victims, taken out from the Golubinka and from the surrounding 15 pits, were buried in the crypt of the Church of the Synaxis of Serbian Saints and Martyrs of Prebilovci. In June 1992, members of the Army of the Republic of Croatia burnt the village and destroyed the crypt and the church. The remnants of the holy relics are today held in the crypt of the temple under reconstruction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3846180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3846180", "title": "Prometheus (tree)", "text": "Prometheus (tree)\n\nPrometheus (recorded as WPN-114) was the oldest known non-clonal organism, a Great Basin bristlecone pine (\"Pinus longaeva\") tree growing near the tree line on Wheeler Peak in eastern Nevada, United States. The tree, which was at least 4,862 years old and possibly more than 5,000, was cut down in 1964 by a graduate student and United States Forest Service personnel for research purposes. Those involved did not know of its world-record age before the cutting, but the circumstances and decision-making process remain controversial.\n\nThe tree's name refers to the mythological figure Prometheus, who stole fire from the gods and gave it to man. The designation WPN-114 was given by the original researcher, Donald Rusk Currey, and means it was the 114th tree he sampled in his research in Nevada's White Pine County.\n\nPrometheus was a living member of a population of bristlecone pine trees near the tree line on the lateral moraine of a former glacier on Wheeler Peak, in Great Basin National Park, eastern Nevada. Wheeler Peak is the highest mountain in the Snake Range, and the highest mountain entirely in the state of Nevada. The bristlecone pine population on this mountain is divided into at least two distinct sub-populations, one of which is accessible by a popular interpretive trail.\n\nPrometheus, however, grew in an area reachable only by off-trail hiking. In either 1958 or 1961, a group of naturalists who admired Prometheus's grove gave names to a number of the largest or most distinctive trees, including Prometheus.\n\nCurrey originally estimated the tree was at least 4844 years old. A few years later, this was increased to 4862 by Donald Graybill of the University of Arizona's Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research. These ring counts were done on a trunk cross-section taken about 2.5 m (8 feet) above the original germination point of the tree, because the innermost rings were missing below that point. Adjusting Graybill's figure by adding the estimated number of years required to reach that height, plus a correction for the estimated number of missing rings (not uncommon in trees at the tree line), it is probable that the tree was at least 5000 years old when felled. That made it the oldest known unitary (i.e. non-clonal) organism at the time, exceeding even the Methuselah tree of the White Mountains' Schulman Grove, in California, though Methuselah was later redated to 4845 years old.\n\nIn 2012 a bristlecone pine in California's White Mountains was measured by Tom Harlan to be 5062 years old, making it the oldest known tree in North America and the oldest known individual tree in the world.\n\nWhether Prometheus should have been considered the oldest organism ever known depends on the definition of \"oldest\" and \"organism\". Certain sprouting (clonal) organisms, such as creosote bush or aspen, may have older individuals if the entire clonal organism is considered. By that standard, the oldest living organism is a grove of quaking aspens in Utah known as Pando, at perhaps as much as 80,000 years old. In a clonal organism, however, the individual clonal stems are not nearly so old, and no part of the organism is particularly old at any given time. Until 2012, Prometheus was thus the oldest \"non-clonal\" organism yet discovered, with its innermost, extant rings exceeding 4862 years of age.\n\nIn the 1950s dendrochronologists were making active efforts to find the oldest living tree species in order to use the analysis of the rings for various research purposes, such as the evaluation of former climates, the dating of archaeological ruins, and addressing the basic scientific question of maximum potential lifespan. Bristlecone pines in California's White Mountains and elsewhere were discovered by Edmund Schulman to be older than any species yet discovered. This spurred interest in finding very old bristlecones, possibly older than the Methuselah tree, aged by Schulman in 1957 at over 4,700 years.\n\nDonald R. Currey was a graduate student at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill studying the climate dynamics of the Little Ice Age using dendrochronology techniques. In 1963 he became aware of the bristlecone populations in the Snake Range in general, and on Wheeler Peak in particular. Based on the trees' size, growth rate and growth forms, he became convinced that some were very old, cored some of them, and found trees exceeding 3,000 years in age, but Currey was not able to obtain a continuous series of overlapping cores from WPN-114.\n\nHere, stories diverge. It is not clear whether Currey requested, or Forest Service personnel suggested, that he cut down and section the tree in lieu of coring it. There is also some uncertainty as to why a core sample could not be obtained. One version has it that he broke or lodged his only long increment borer and could not obtain another before the end of the field season; another claims he broke two of them, while another implies that a core sample was too difficult to obtain and also would not provide as much definitive information as a full cross-section of the tree.\n\nIn addition, there are conflicting views of Prometheus's uniqueness in the Wheeler Peak grove. It is reported that Currey and/or the Forest Service personnel who authorized the cutting believed the tree was just one of many large, very old trees in the grove. Others, at least one of whom was involved in the decision-making and tree cutting, believe that the tree was clearly unique — obviously older than other trees in the area.\n\nAt least one person involved says that Currey knew that to be true at the time, although there is no known admission from Currey that he did, and others have disputed that the tree, based on observation alone, was obviously much older than the others.\n\nAnother uncertainty is that it is not clear why the felling of such an old tree was necessary given what Currey was studying. Since the Little Ice Age had started no more than 600 years ago, many trees could presumably have provided the information he was seeking for that time period. In Currey's original report in the journal \"Ecology\" (Currey, 1965), however, he refers to the Little Ice Age as encompassing the period from 2000 BC to the present, thus defining the Age over a much longer time period than is currently accepted. Whether this was a common view at the time is not known. In the article, Currey indicates that he sectioned the tree as much to determine whether the oldest bristlecones were necessarily confined to California's White Mountains (as some dendrochronologists had been claiming) as from its usefulness in regard to studies of the Little Ice Age.\n\nWhatever the rationale, the tree was cut down and sectioned in August 1964, and several pieces of the sections were hauled out to be processed and analyzed, first by Currey, then by others in later years. Sections or pieces of the tree have ended up in various places, some of them publicly accessible, including the Great Basin National Park visitor center (Baker, Nevada), the Ely Convention Center (Ely, Nevada), the University of Arizona Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research (Tucson, Arizona), and the U.S. Forest Service's Institute of Forest Genetics (Placerville, California).\n\nIt has been argued that the cutting down of Prometheus was an important factor in the movement to protect bristlecones in general, and the Wheeler Peak groves in particular. There had been a movement to protect the mountain and contiguous areas as a national park before the incident, and 22 years later the area gained national park status.\n\nIn August 2014, marking the fiftieth anniversary of the tree's cutting, a two-day memorial for Prometheus was held in Great Basin National Park by artist Jeff Weiss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38001452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38001452", "title": "Red Bastard", "text": "Red Bastard\n\nRed Bastard is a live bouffon clown theatre show written and performed by Eric Davis.\n\nWhat begins with a surreal monologue by a twisted clown named Red Bastard quickly devolves into full blown audience participation.\n\n"}
{"id": "30386772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30386772", "title": "Rudolph Fentz", "text": "Rudolph Fentz\n\nRudolph Fentz (also spelled as Rudolf Fenz) is the focal character of \"I'm Scared\", a 1952 science fiction short story by Jack Finney, which was later reported as an urban legend as if the events had truly happened. The story tells of a 19th-century-looking young man possessing items of that period who is found confused in the middle of 1951 Times Square before being hit by a car and killed, suggesting that he had, perhaps involuntarily, time travelled about a century forwards. \n\nThe story of Rudolph Fentz became one of the more significant urban legends of the 1970s and has been repeated occasionally since; with the spread of the Internet in the 1990s, it has been reported more often as a reproduction of facts and presented as evidence for the existence of time travel.\n\nThe Fentz legend describes how one evening in mid-June 1951, at about 11:15 p.m., passersby at New York City's Times Square noticed a man of about 20 years of age, dressed in the fashion of the late 19th century. No one observed how he had arrived there, and he was disoriented and confused standing in the middle of an intersection. He was hit by a taxi and fatally injured, before people were able to intervene.\n\nThe officials at the morgue searched his body and found the following items in his pockets:\nNone of these objects showed any signs of aging.\nCaptain Hubert V. Rihm of the Missing Persons Department of NYPD tried using this information to identify the man. He found that the address on Fifth Avenue was part of a business; its current owner did not know Rudolph Fentz. Fentz's name was not listed in the address book, his fingerprints were not recorded anywhere, and no one had reported him missing. Rihm continued the investigation and finally found a Rudolph Fentz Jr. in a telephone book from 1939. Rihm spoke to the residents of the apartment building at the listed address who remembered Fentz and described him as a man about 60 years who had worked nearby. After his retirement, he moved to an unknown location in 1940. Contacting the bank, Rihm was told that Fentz died five years before, but his widow was still alive but lived in Florida. Rihm contacted her and learned that her husband's father (Rudolph Fentz) had disappeared in 1876, aged 29. He had left the house for an evening walk and never returned. All efforts to locate him were in vain and no trace remained.\n\nCaptain Rihm checked the missing persons files on Rudolph Fentz in 1876. The description of his appearance, age, and clothing corresponded precisely to the appearance of the unidentified dead man from Times Square. The case was still marked unsolved. Fearing he would be held mentally incompetent, Rihm never noted the results of his investigation in the official files.\n\nSince 1972, the unexplained disappearance and reappearance of Rudolph Fentz has been mentioned in books (such as those by Viktor Farkas) and articles, and later on the Internet, portrayed as a real event. The story has been cited as evidence for various theories and assumptions about the topic of time travel.\n\nIn 2000, after the Spanish magazine \"Más Allá\" published a representation of the events as a factual report, folklore researcher Chris Aubeck investigated the description to check its veracity. His research led to the conclusion that the people and events of the story were fictional. Aubeck found that the Fentz-story appeared for the first time in the 1972 May/June issue of the \"Journal of Borderland Research\", which published it as a factual report. The magazine was published by the Borderland Sciences Research Foundation, a society that addressed UFO sightings with esoteric explanations. The magazine sourced the story to the book published in 1953, \"A Voice from the Gallery\" by Ralph M. Holland. Aubeck believed the origin of the fictional story had been found.\n\nIn August 2001, after Aubeck had published his research in the \"Akron Beacon Journal\", Pastor George Murphy contacted him to explain that the original source was older still. Ralph M. Holland had either taken the story about Rudolph Fentz completely from either a 1952 Robert Heinlein science fiction anthology, entitled \"Tomorrow, the Stars\" or the \"Collier's\" magazine from 15 September 1951. The true author was the renowned science fiction writer Jack Finney (1911–1995), and the Fentz episode was part of the short story \"I'm Scared\", which was published in \"Collier's\" first. The story describes a character called Rudolph Fentz behaving as described in the urban legend, with the narrator Captain Hubert V. Rihm giving his opinions of the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "55462466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55462466", "title": "Saijō Sake Matsuri", "text": "Saijō Sake Matsuri\n\nThe is a sake (rice wine) matsuri festival held annually in Saijō Higashihiroshima, Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan.\n\nSaijō is famed for local sake or . Within the narrow streets of the Sakagura Dori (\"Sake Storehouse Road\") area near JR Saijō Station are the Namako wall (white-lattice walled) and (red-roof tile) roofs of ten well-known sake breweries; Chiyonoharu, Fukubijin, Hakubotan, Kamoki, Kamoizumi, Kamotsuru, Kirei, Saijotsuru, Sakurafubuki, and Sanyotsuru. In July 1995, Saijō was made the home of the Brewery Laboratory of the National Tax Office.\n\nThe Saijō Sake Matsuri is an important part of Hiroshima culture, which draws crowds of between 100,000–200,000 revelers and sake connoisseurs each October before the brewing season (October–March) begins. Visitors also enjoy numerous attractions, sidestalls and games. There is also a wide variety of traditional as well as modern carnival food available.\n\n"}
{"id": "8841325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8841325", "title": "Sandwich City Hall", "text": "Sandwich City Hall\n\nSandwich City Hall, which is also known as the Sandwich City Hall & Opera House, is the government center for the city of Sandwich, Illinois in DeKalb County. The first floor of the building is occupied by city government while the second floor of the historic building houses an active opera house. Sandwich City Hall & Opera House is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and has been since 1979.\n\nSandwich City Hall was constructed in 1878. This building reflects the post-Civil War Second Empire style, meant to evoke the spirit of the early years after a war that broke apart the purer architectural styles and mingled together in a mixture of revival styles. The construction was funded by a bond issue of $10,000 approved by the mayor and city aldermen in Sandwich. Eventually, a $2,000 cost overrun required additional bond issues. The city turned over the design of the structure to local architects Enos and Israel Doan. The building was completed on schedule in January 1879. The finished product was 48 by 80 feet. The first floor had 12 foot ceilings while the second floor included a balcony and 22 foot ceilings.\n\nThe building became a complete community center when it was completed. The first floor housed the mayor's office, the city clerk's office, council room, visiting judge's chambers, engine room and a marshall's office. The marshall's office had five jail cells. The upper floor of the building became the opera house. The opera house became an all-purpose theatre. It featured shows of all types, vaudevillian, Shakespearean, lectures, Women's Christian Temperance Union meetings, recitials, high school plays and graduations, church gatherings, firemen's ball and many other events. As other facilities became available to clientele the Opera House was left idle following World War II. City government offices continued to function within building despite the dormant theater above.\n\nA community group was responsible for Sandwich City Hall's placement on the National Register in 1979. A few years later in 1982 the group, the Association to Restore City Hall, was given tax-exempt status and received a grant of nearly $1.3 million from the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community Affairs in 1983. The grant covered 75% of restoration and construction costs and the restoration was completed in 1986. The restoration provided new offices for many city government officials including the mayor, City Clerk, Assistant City Clerk, and City Engineer. In addition it provided for a public area where residents could pay bills or conduct other business.\n\nThe restoration also included an addition on the rear of the building. The addition provided for a community room on the first floor and on the second floor allowed for additional facilities for the opera house, including make up rooms and storage. Other areas to be restored and renovated included the foyers, the main entrance, the original walnut staircase on the west side of the building and a custom made stairway for the east are of the second floor was constructed. The police department and jail area ceased to be used in 1977 but the restoration incorporated it into the revamped structure. Though the jail area is now a women's restroom it still bears the old iron bars of the original jail cells, albeit fastened open.\n\nWhen the restoration was completed in 1986 the city of Sandwich held a rededication ceremony that was attended by several state level political officials including then Lieutenant Governor George H. Ryan. The rededication was attended by numerous local officials as well.\n\nThe once dormant Opera House portion of the city hall building is once again fully operational. With city government still operating on the first floor the opera house has a full season. Sandwich City Hall's second floor has become home to classical music performances, country-western ensembles, student recitals, bluegrass performances, dance, drama by the Indian Valley Theatre, pop performances, and numerous other events. The facility is available for rent based upon scheduling. In the first year following the 1986 restoration 18,725 people attended performances and programs of all types at the opera house.\n\n"}
{"id": "6731303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6731303", "title": "Street fair", "text": "Street fair\n\nA street fair is a fair that celebrates the character of a neighborhood. As its name suggests, it is usually held on the main street of a neighborhood.\n\nThe principal component of street fairs are booths used to sell goods (particularly food) or convey information; sometimes they have carnival rides and parades, as well. Many have live music and dance demonstrations.\n\nThey are usually no more than a few blocks long, although some fairs, such as the 9th Avenue International Food Festival in New York City and the Solano Stroll in Northern California extend more than a mile. A fair only one block long is commonly called a block party.\n\nStreet fairs vary greatly in character, even within one city. Annual street fairs in Seattle, for example, include the University District Street Fair, featuring the work of numerous craftspeople, and requiring that the person who actually made the goods that are for sale must be present in their own booth; the Fremont Fair features crafts from around the world, as well as the Summer Solstice Parade and Pageant, famed for its painted naked cyclists. In the same city, the Capitol Hill Block Party fences off several blocks, charges admission, and features many of the city's best known rock bands while the Chinatown-International District Summer Fair has a distinctly Asian-American and Pacific Islander flavor, with taiko drummers, martial arts demonstrations, and Hawaiian dance.\n\nIn Belgium, street fairs are known as braderies, which translates to \"roasting\"; a reference to the frequent roasting of meat at these events.\n"}
{"id": "17454834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17454834", "title": "Threadneedle Prize", "text": "Threadneedle Prize\n\nThe Columbia Threadneedle Prize (formerly The Threadneedle Prize) is a major art prize, which showcases contemporary figurative art. It was launched by the Mall Galleries in 2008. The prize is open to any artist, eighteen or over, who is living or working in the UK or Continental Europe.\n\nThe Threadneedle Prize was launched in 2008 to support the popular interest in figurative art. It was organised by the Federation of British Artists and offered a prize of £25,000. The new competition coincided with a move by the rival Turner Prize away from painting and sculpture and, in some eyes, becoming \"trivial and dull\". Art critic Brian Sewell welcomed the new prize, though complained that the majority of entries were disappointing, concluding that the \"new prize is capable of achieving a greater good than any other, but it must, without becoming quite as predictable as the Turner Prize... achieve next year a far higher level of distinction.\"\n\nIn 2009 almost half of the 80 final exhibits at the Mall Galleries were portrait paintings, in a wide variety of styles.\n\nBy 2013 the number of exhibits had increased to 111, chosen from over 3,500 entries.\n\nIn the first year of the competition there was a single prize of £25,000. In 2010 the Visitors’ Choice Prize, worth £10,000, was introduced. The two major prizes available are the Threadneedle Prize and the Visitor’ Choice Prize. In 2012 the Threadneedle Prize was increased from £25,000 to £30,000 making it the largest prize for single work of art in the UK. For the Threadneedle Prize, a panel of selectors shortlist six works and then choose the winner of the £30,000 prize. Two finalists for the Visitors' Choice Prize are awarded £500. Each of the five finalists for the Threadneedle Prize receives £1,000. In 2013 there are eight prizes totalling £46,000.\n\nSelectors have included artists, critics and curators Peter Randall-Page, Ed Vaizey, Michael Sandle, Jock McFadyen, Daphne Todd, Richard Cork and Desmond Shawe-Taylor.\n\nIn 2016, the £20,000 winner - \"Salt in Tea\" by Lewis Hazelwood-Horner - was also named the winner of the £10,000 Visitors' Choice Award.\n\nFollowing the 2016 exhibition at Mall Galleries, London, selected works from the Prize toured to Palazzo Strozzi in Florence, Italy.\n\nWinner - Lewis Hazelwood-Horner, \"Salt in Tea\"\nVisitors' Choice - Lewis Hazelwood-Horner, \"Salt in Tea\"\nWinner - Tina Jenkins, \"Bed Head\" \nVisitors' Choice - Ben Johnson, \"Room of the Revolutionary\"\nJoint winner - Clare McCormack, \"Dead Labour/Dead Labourer\" \nJoint winner - Lisa Wright, \"The Guilty's Gaze on the Innocent\" \nVisitors' Choice - Conrad Engelhardt, \"Aung San Suu Kyi\" \nWinner - Ben Greener, \"My Feet\" \nVisitors' Choice - Robert Truscott, \"Defeat\" \nWinner - Henrietta Simson, \"Bad Government\" \nVisitors' Choice - Nicholas McLeod, \"Drained\" \nWinner - Patricia Cain, \"Building the Riverside Museum\" \nVisitors' Choice - Fionnuala Boyd and Les Evans, \"Clee Hill 2009\" \nWinner - Sheila Wallis \nEmerging Artist Prize - Aishan Yu \nWinner - Nina Murdoch, \"Untitled\" \nSelectors' Choice - Tim Shaw, \"Tank on Fire\" \n\n2016\n\nEmma Crichton-Miller, David Dawson, Dr Arturo Galansino, Dr Tim Knox\n\n2014\n\nJohn Martin, Kevin Francis Gray, Nancy Durrant, Whitney Hintz\n\n2013\n\nTim Shaw, Barnaby Wright, Paul Benney, Laura Gascoigne\n\n2012\n\nNicholas Usherwood, Peter Randall-Page, Christopher Riopelle\n\n2011\n\nJulie Lomax, Lisa Milroy, Godfrey Worsdale\n\n2010\n\nDr Xavier Bray, David Rayson, Michael Sandle RA\n\n2009\n\nJock McFadyen, Cathy Lomax, Michael Leonard, Desmond Shawe-Taylor, Daphne Todd OBE, Nine Murdoch\n\n2008\n\nRichard Cork, Angela Flowers, Hew Locke, William Packer, Brian Sewell\n\n"}
{"id": "34302246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34302246", "title": "Tony Marryatt", "text": "Tony Marryatt\n\nTony Marryatt (born 1954) is a senior manager employed by local government in New Zealand. Between 2007 and 2013, he was the chief executive officer (CEO) of Christchurch City Council, succeeding Lesley McTurk. He lost his position over the city council being stripped of its building consent accreditation.\n\nMarryatt served as the CEO of Hamilton City Council, New Zealand from 1996 to 2007.\n\nMarryatt's predecessor at Christchurch City Council, Dr Lesley McTurk, resigned in January 2007 to take up the CEO-role at Housing New Zealand. Marryatt's appointment as CEO in Christchurch was announced by mayor Garry Moore on 15 February 2007.\n\nMaryatt's local government tenure has not been without controversy. He has been held responsible for the loss-making Hamilton V8 Supercars event by his opponents, notably then-mayor of Hamilton David Braithwaite, who frequently clashed with Marryatt. In late 2011 he, along with the Bob Parker-led Christchurch City Council, garnered controversy for accepting a $70,000 pay rise as the council's CEO. This culminated in a protest rally attended by some 4,000 people in February 2012. In late August of that year, it emerged that Marryatt had taken a personal grievance against city councillors. Whilst the case was settled before it went to court, the city council reimbursed his legal costs, which were between NZ$10,000 to NZ$30,000. Maryatt was also condemned by the Canterbury Employers Chamber of Commerce for his decision to grant council staff an extra 11 days leave a year without first seeking approval from elected city councillors.\n\nWith effect from 8 July 2013, Christchurch City Council has been stripped of its accreditation for issuing building consents. This comes in the middle of a rebuild period following the devastating February 2011 Christchurch earthquake. City councillors found out earlier in June through the media that International Accreditation New Zealand (IANZ) had written to council and threatened to withdraw accreditation, with Marryatt replying that Parker and other councillors were kept in the dark because he was confident staff were addressing issues raised by IANZ, and that the June 28 deadline would be met.\" A Crown manager, Doug Martin, has been installed to reform the council's consenting department. Marryatt lost his job over the affair, but stayed on the payroll until November 2013 and received a total of $500,000 on departure. Parker, who had backed the controversial CEO over the years, took his part of the responsibility and decided not to stand for re-election for a third term as mayor.\n"}
{"id": "7646521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7646521", "title": "Uposatha", "text": "Uposatha\n\nThe Uposatha () is a Buddhist day of observance, in existence from the Buddha's time (600 BCE), and still being kept today in Buddhist countries. The Buddha taught that the Uposatha day is for \"the cleansing of the defiled mind,\" resulting in inner calm and joy. On this day, both lay and ordained members of the sangha intensify their practice, deepen their knowledge and express communal commitment through millennia-old acts of lay-monastic reciprocity. On these days, the lay followers make a conscious effort to keep the Five Precepts or (as the tradition suggests) the Eight Precepts. It is a day for practicing the Buddha's teachings and meditation.\n\nDepending on the culture and time period, uposatha days have been observed from two to six days each lunar month.\n\nIn general, Uposatha is observed about once a week in Theravada countries in accordance with the four lunar phases: the new moon, the full moon, and the two quarter moons in between. In some communities, such as in Sri Lanka, only the new moon and full moon are observed as uposatha days.\n\nIn Burmese Buddhism, Uposatha (called \"ubot nei\") is observed by more pious Buddhists on the following days: waxing moon ( \"la hsan\"), full moon ( \"la pyei nei\"), waning moon ( \"la hsote\"), and new moon ( \"la kwe nei\"). The most common days of observance are the full moon and the new moon. In precolonial Burma, Uposatha was a legal holiday that was observed primarily in urban areas, where secular activities like business transactions came to a halt. However, since colonial rule, Sunday has replaced Uposatha as the legal day of rest. All major Burmese Buddhist holidays occur on Uposathas, namely Thingyan, the beginning of Vassa (beginning in the full moon of Waso, around July, to the full moon of Thadingyut, around October). During this period, Uposatha is more commonly observed by Buddhists than during the rest of the year. During Uposatha days, Buddhist monks at each monastery assemble and recite the patimokkha, a concise compilation of the Vinaya.\n\nIn Mahayana countries that use the Chinese calendar, the Uposatha days are observed ten times a month, on the 1st, 8th, 14th, 15th, 18th, 23rd, 24th and final three days of each lunar month. Alternatively, one can only observe Uposatha days six times a month; on the 8th, 14th, 15th, 23rd and final two days of each lunar month. In Japan, these six days are known as the .\n\nThe Pali names of the uposatha days are based on the Sanskrit names of the \"nakśatra\" (Pali: \"nakkhatta\"), the constellations or lunar mansions through which the moon passes within a lunar month.\nThe word \"uposatha\" is derived from the Sanskrit word \"upavasatha,\" which refers to the pre-Buddhistic fast day that preceded sacrifices in the historical Vedic religion.\n\nIn the Buddha's time, some ascetics used the new and full moon as opportunities to present their teachings. The Uposatha Day was instituted by the Buddha at the request of King Bimbisara, and the Buddha instructed the monks to give teachings to the laypeople on this day, and told the monks to recite the Patimokkha every second Uposatha day.\n\nOn each uposatha day, devout Upāsaka and Upāsikā practice the Eight Precepts, perhaps echoing the Buddha's teaching that laypeople should \"imitate\" arhats on Uposatha days.\n\nFor lay practitioners who live near a vihara, Uposatha is an opportunity for them to visit it, make offerings, listen to dhamma talks by monks and participate in meditation sessions.\n\nFor lay practitioners unable to participate in the events of a local monastery, the uposatha is a time to intensify one's own meditation and Dhamma practice, for instance, meditating an extra session or for a longer time, reading or chanting special Buddhist texts, recollecting or giving in some special way.\n\nOn the new-moon and full-moon uposatha, in monasteries where there are four or more bhikkhus, the local Sangha will recite the Patimokkha. Before the recitation starts, the monks will confess any violations of the disciplinary rules to another monk or to the Sangha. Depending on the speed of the Patimokkha chanter (one of the monks), the recitation may take from 30 minutes to over an hour. Depending on the monastery, lay people may or may not be allowed to attend.\n\nDescribing his experience of Uposatha day in Thailand, Khantipalo (1982a) writes:\n\nIn Thailand five full-moon Uposatha days are of special significance and are called puja:\nis the most sacred Buddhist holiday. It is the anniversary of the Buddha's birth, awakening and parinibbana.\nAnniversary of the Buddha's delivering the \"Anapanasati Sutta\". This event is not connected to an Uposatha (Poya) day in Sri Lanka and perhaps is particular to Thailand.\nAnniversary of the assembling of 1250 monks in the Buddha's presence during which time he delivered the \"Ovada-Patimokkha Gatha.\"\n\nIn Sri Lanka, three full moon Uposatha or Poya days are of special significance.\n\nIn Tibet and Bhutan, there are four full moon Uposatha days that are of importance\n\nIn China, Japan, Korea and Vietnam there are certain full moon Uposatha days of importance.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22144448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22144448", "title": "UppCon", "text": "UppCon\n\nUppCon was a Swedish anime and manga convention held annually in Uppsala. The event, which was arranged by the nonprofit organization Uppsalakai, was the largest event of its type in the Nordic countries.. During the 1990s the name had been used by a now defunct gaming convention.\n\nThe first of the conventions was held in 2002, at the vintage cinema Slottsbiografen. Over the years the event had grown and in 2009 it had more than 3,000 attendants.\nThe conventions usually lasted for three days, from Friday to Sunday, where people with similar interests for example met up to watch anime, compete in cosplay-contests and play videogames.\n\nMany organizations had put up tables to display products they had for sale. Most of them sold imported goods from Japan, such as manga, anime, figures, dolls, clothes and candy such as Pocky.\n\nThe eleventh UppCon was held on June 3–5, 2011. In May 2012 it was reported that the UppCon: 12-event would be the last UppCon arranged by its founders.\n\n"}
{"id": "41686956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41686956", "title": "Vilatte orders", "text": "Vilatte orders\n\nThe Vilatte Orders are awards or decorations associated Joseph René Vilatte which include the Order of the Crown of Thorns (OCT) and the Order of the Lion and the Black Cross (OLBC). Both are condemned by the Holy See and Italy lists both as illegal decorations.\n\nThe International Commission on Orders of Chivalry (ICOC) includes a list of \"ecclesiastical decorations\" in its Register since 1998, which only \"possess full validity as awards of merit or honours within the respective Churches which have instituted them\" but excludes bodies \"which are often created as a purely private initiative, and which subsequently place themselves under the 'protection' of a Patriarchal See or Archbishopric.\" Neither the or are found in the Register. The suggests to authorities \"to use more proper terms for any future creations of awards\" and states it should be \"clearly understood that the decorations [...] are not considered by the Commission to be Chivalric in nature even though several may use the term 'Order' in their styles and imitate Chivalric titles.\"\n\nThe awards associated with Vilatte include those named \"The Chivalrous and Religious Order of the Crown of Thorns\" (OCT) ('), \"The Sovereign, Knightly and Noble Order of the Lion and the Black Cross\" (OLBC) (' (OLCN)).\n\nLouis-François Girardot and Vilatte originated a pair of groups. The two separately founded \"orders\" had the same name but different origins and were combined, although it is not clear what that meant. The San Luigi organization says that the orders were inspired by the \"\", founded by King Louis IX of France, and also that \"it is not asserted that there is a continuous and historically verifiable link between the present-day Order and these bodies.\"\n\nThere are two separate foundation stories for the ; one in 1883, the other in 1891. These foundation stories were not believed by some during Vilatte's lifetime; Guénon wrote that \"dignitaries of this Church have a mania for titles of nobility as others have for fantastic decorations; thus [... Vilatte] invented the 'Order of the Crown of Thorns'.\" The organization acknowledges the lack of verifiable facts about the monastery but says that some documents were destroyed in a house fire in 1918 and other documents were seized by the Vatican in 1929 after Vilatte's death.\n\nThe was reputedly founded in 1883. According to the San Luigi organization, after the French protectorate of Tunisia was established in 1881, France sought to colonize the Ottoman Empire's Fezzan province as part of the Scramble for Africa. A small group of French and Spanish Benedictine monks settled in Ghadames on . Ghadames society in the 1800s is described by Ulrich Harmann, in \"\", as a city with \"customary law and administration\" with \"the norms\" established and observed \"by the assemblies of the various sub-tribes and codified in ittifaqat\" and sharia. Fezzan was not a \"\"; Richard Brookes described, in \"Brookes' General Gazetter Abridged\", 1796 edition, that Fezzan was \"a kingdom in Africa\". The organization says that there is no documentation and that, \"It is possible that some had been associated with the former Ligugé Abbey, which had been closed in 1880 with most of the members of the community then moving to Silos Abbey in Spain.\" It is unclear if the monastery was a satellite of a mother abbey, if it was ever considered stable enough and large enough to be elevated to the rank of an abbey, if they had the canonically required number of twelve monks to elect an abbot, if his election received the approbation of their provincial prior, if after his ecclesiastical confirmation he received abbatial blessing from any bishop in communion with the Holy See, or even if any of their actions were sanctioned at all. Nevertheless, the monks called their monastery the \"Abbey-Principality of San Luigi\" and they claimed sovereignty, as a theocracy, over the surrounding secular territory. Disease was endemic; attempts to convert the local Muslim population to Catholicism were rejected; and in less than a year, on , the monastery was sacked and at least one monk was murdered. Five monks, including what the organization calls their third abbot, José Mendoza, survived and were exiled. Mendoza was somehow elected by less than the canonically required twelve monks. Without mentioning the Sahara and Sahel situated between Ghadames and the Sudd, the organization says that the monks traveled across the Sudd and arrived in the Kingdom of Bunyoro-Kitara on . There, the organization says, Omukama Kabarega of Bunyoro granted territory to the monks to settle and establish a monastery. The organization says that Kabarega conferred a title, Mukungu of the Chieftainship of the Ancient Abbey-Principality of San Luigi, upon Mendoza. In 1888, all the monks, except for Mendoza, died from an epidemic; Mendoza abandoned the monastery in Bunyoro and returned to Europe. The organization says that \"legalization by a French government official established the recognition of the Abbey-Principality by the French state\" when Mayor Eugène Clairet of Seine-Port in Île-de-France, was apparently involved in some way with some type of transfer of titles from Mendoza to Girardot. On , Girardot transferred those Mendoza titles to Vilatte, with Clairet somehow involved again.\n\nThe organization says that the monastery, of at least seven monks, \"was constitutionally independent as a theocratic state\" and a \"colonising power\" under which \"the local population had no political rights whatsoever\" and \"were to be subjugated under the absolute rule\" of the monastery. The organization confers reputed titles of nobility The organization also describes itself as an Old Catholic church. The organization believes itself to be the legitimate \"de jure\" government-in-exile of its former territory in the Fezzan. \"The Abbey-Principality aims ultimately to secure the territorial restoration of the original Abbey-Principality in Libya, but is aware that political and related considerations are likely to preclude this objective for the time being\". The organization also believes that it is also theoretically empowered to open embassies although it has not done so as yet.\n\nIn 1957, Girardot recanted his 1883 foundation story.\n\nThe was also allegedly founded in 1891 and authorized by Moran Mar Ignatius Peter IV, Syriac Orthodox Patriarch of Antioch. The asserts that because \"none of the Eastern Orthodox Patriarchal Sees possess any type of direct Sovereignty, [...] the decorations instituted by them may not be deemed as equivalent to those bestowed by the Roman Pontiff not only in his Spiritual Capacity but also in his temporal position as Sovereign of the Vatican City State.\" \"Protection is an attribute of Sovereignty, which none of these Sees actually posses,\" according to the . Ignatius Peter IV intended this order, according to Paul Schultz's 1977 pamphlet about the history of the group, to be like the Knights of Columbus.\n\nThe term \"Order of the Crown of Thorns\" is also used in popular culture. It appears in a story about a series of LEGO construction toy creations posted on LEGO fan community websites. It also appears in the role-playing game \"Chaotic Origin\", which includes among its fantasy organizations \"The Seattle Order of the Crown of Thorns\".\n\n\"The Sovereign, Knightly and Noble Order of the Lion and the Black Cross\" (OLBC) (\"\"\n\nOn , ' reported that the Faubourg-Montmartre Police Commissioner and three magistrates searched Guillaume Valensi's home and office were they seized numerous diplomas and the flag of an order created by Valensi, a Tunisian. One of Valensi's accomplices was Clémenti, the president of the ', a Corsican. Documents and blank diplomas of decorations of various orders were seized during a search of Clémenti's home. They included a number of blanks printed in Arabic and other bearing what purported to be, the signatures of Clemenceau, Henri Brisson, Victor Henri Rochefort, Marquis de Rochefort-Luçay, Léon Gambetta, and Victor Hugo. The evidence was filed in criminal court. Following the search, Valensi's brother, a doctor, requested that the court order a psychological evaluation of the accused. According to \"The North-China Herald and Supreme Court & Consular Gazette\", Valensi was not placed on trial with the other five men because of his \"breakdown of the mental faculties\". The investigation was begun after a client became suspicious of the authenticity of the signatures and reported the whole affair. He revealed in a deposition that he purchased a diploma of the Tunisian order of Nichan Iftikhar for eighty francs from Clémenti. According to the deposition, Valensi sent the client to Clémenti, who provided the diploma. Valensi and Clémenti were arrested on charges of fraud and trafficking illegal decorations. According to \"The New York Times\", the \"\" reported that the trafficking in decorations scandal spread as far as Berlin were many well known persons were decorated. As it spread, searches were carried out against Valensi and his accomplices which led to several arrests. According to the trial record, Valensi's \"part in the play was to pose as chief secretary to the Bey of Tunis, in which capacity he was supposed to be able to bestow the order of the Nichan Iftikar on deserving persons, for a consideration.\"\n\nValensi deceived many people. \"The New Zealand Herald\" described how the town of Lille had been \"hoaxed in the most complete and amusing manner\" by Valensi and two accomplices, who duped the authorities into thinking that they were Moorish notables. Valensi advertised the visit of Kaid Said Garda to Lille, described as a representative of the Sultan of Morocco. The Kaid and another \"Moorish official\" appeared, each wearing a burnous, and with them Valensi, in a red fez. They were received at the railway station by the local authorities and a number of Lille adherents of the \"Order of the Golden Crescent of Morocco\". The affair created great excitement in the town. At Valensi's hotel the Flag of Morocco was flown from the balcony. Speeches were made at a banquet by the Kaid in broken French and Valensi, and subsequently a number of decorations were distributed. The prefect of police in the town was nominated an officer of the \"Golden Cross of Italy\". Some well-known politicians were implicated in the scandal. It was revealed during the trial, that while in Lille, \"the 'ambassadors' invited a couple of ladies whose language and gestures were so highly Parisian that the effect of the 'Mission' was spoilt. This story made everyone in Court laugh [...]\" according to \"The North-China Herald and Supreme Court & Consular Gazette\".\n\nVilatte was also implicated in the Valensi affair by being identified as the Marie Timothée of the Principality of San Luigi, whose signature appeared on diplomas of the Order of the Lion and the Black Cross trafficked by Valensi, who was described as a propagator of honorary and bizarre distinctions. Vilatte responded to ' article, based on 's article, about the diploma by stating that the story discredited him by incorrectly identifying him as the signatory. He declared that he had nothing to do with the published diploma, with Valensi, or with the Order of the Lion and the Black Cross and that his authentic had nothing in common with the diploma from the Principality of San Luigi. \"I do not bear the title of Marie Timothée, much less that of Prince, Grand Master of the Order of the Lion and the Black Cross\", asserted Vilatte. He wrote that he never signed any document as Marie Timothée or Mar Timothée and made clear that he was given the religious name of Mar Timothéus I and not Marie Timothée. Vilatte was correct on two points. Neither ' nor ' mentioned the name \"Vilatte\" or \"Timothéus\"; the diploma, which was printed in both ' and ', also did not mention the name \"Vilatte\" or \"Timothéus\". \"\" asked Vilatte about the identity of the Mar Timothée, diploma signatory, but he did not respond.\n\nIn 1913 ' printed an article about the Valensi affair based on Maurice Pujo's '. Pujo connected the Valensi affair to organized crime centering on Georges Brassard and\nE. Deyber. Brassard was a wine merchant, a Radical Party executive committee delegate affiliated with Freemasonry and director of . Deyber was a dismissed Police Commissioner.\n\nBrassard and Deyber, added Pujo, provided houses for white slave trade and prostitution.\n\nPujo listed eight societies which mushroomed from Brassard's conglomerate or Republican policy as:\n\nPujo included an excerpt from a letter written by Collet, secretary of most Brassard companies, to Adolphe Brézet, \"president of the Free State of Counani\", stated that Brézet would receive, among several blank diplomas sent to him, a blank \"officer of San Luigi\" diploma.\n\nThe Holy See had stated twice, first in 1953 and again in 1970, that it does not recognize either of the orders. Guy Stair Sainty wrote that an \"increasing number of such bodies\" troubled the Holy See which \"issued statements condemning such 'Orders'\" in 1935, 1953, 1970 and 1976. He noted that the \"most complete recent condemnation\" was included in \"Orders of Knighthood, Awards and the Holy See\", by Archbishop Igino Eugenio Cardinale. The self-styled orders are described as \"originating from private initiatives and aiming at replacing the legitimate forms of chivalric awards.\" The statement points out that, they \"take their name from Orders which have in fact already existed but are now extinct [...] or [...] which had been planned but were never realized or, [...] which are truly fictitious and have no historical precedent at all.\" While they \"style themselves as autonomous,\" these \"private initiatives\" qualify their names, according to the statement, with terms \"which belong exclusively to authentic Orders duly approved by the Holy See\" but are used by these \"private initiatives\" to \"increase the confusion of those who are not aware of the true history of Orders of Knighthood and of their juridical condition.\" For example, \"these alleged Orders claim for themselves [...] such titles as [...] Chivalric, [...] Sovereign, Nobiliary, Religious, [...]\" \"Among these private initiatives, which in no way are approved of or recognized by the Holy See, one can find alleged Orders such as\" \"Saint John the Baptist\", \"The Crown of Thorns\" and \"Lion of the Black Cross\". The statement explains that, \"to avoid equivocations [...] because of the abuse of pontifical and ecclesiastical documents, [...] and to put an end to the continuation of such abuses, entaling harmful consequences for people in good faith, we [...] declare that the Holy See does not recognize the value of the certificates and insignia conferred to the above-named alleged Orders.\" According to the , the \"only recognised order with the style of 'Sovereign' existing nowadays\" is the Sovereign Military Order of Malta and \"whose international diplomatic 'status' as an independent non-territorial power is recognised officially by the Holy See and by many other Governments.\"\n\nAccording to Robert Gayre these \"Orders\" are \"clearly recent creations grafted on to old traditions. Such fantasies are not Orders of chivalry no matter how they may ape chivalric insignia and styles.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "757543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=757543", "title": "We will bury you", "text": "We will bury you\n\n\"We will bury you!\" () is a phrase that was used by Soviet First Secretary Nikita Khrushchev while addressing Western ambassadors at a reception at the Polish embassy in Moscow on November 18, 1956. The phrase was originally translated into English by Khrushchev's personal interpreter Viktor Sukhodrev.\n\nWhile addressing Westerners at the embassy on November 18, 1956, in the presence of Polish Communist statesman Władysław Gomułka, First Secretary Khrushchev said: \"About the capitalist states, it doesn't depend on you whether or not we exist. If you don't like us, don't accept our invitations, and don't invite us to come to see you. Whether you like it or not, history is on our side. We will bury you!\" The speech prompted the envoys from twelve NATO nations and Israel to leave the room.\n\nDuring Khrushchev's visit to the United States in 1959, the Los Angeles mayor Norris Poulson in his address to Khrushchev stated: \"We do not agree with your widely quoted phrase 'We shall bury you.' You shall not bury us and we shall not bury you. We are happy with our way of life. We recognize its shortcomings and are always trying to improve it. But if challenged, we shall fight to the death to preserve it\". Many Americans meanwhile interpreted Khrushchev's quote as a nuclear threat.\n\nIn another public speech Khrushchev declared: \"[...] We must take a shovel and dig a deep grave, and bury colonialism as deep as we can\". In a 1961 speech at the Institute of Marxism–Leninism in Moscow, Khrushchev said, that \"peaceful coexistence\" for the Soviet Union means \"intense, economic, political and ideological struggle between the proletariat and the aggressive forces of imperialism in the world arena\". Later, on August 24, 1963, Khrushchev remarked in his speech in Yugoslavia, \"I once said, 'We will bury you,' and I got into trouble with it. Of course we will not bury you with a shovel. Your own working class will bury you,\" a reference to the Marxist saying, \"The proletariat is the undertaker of capitalism\", based on the concluding statement in Chapter 1 of the \"Communist Manifesto\": \"What the bourgeoisie therefore produces, above all, are its own grave-diggers. Its fall and the victory of the proletariat are equally inevitable\". In his memoirs, Khrushchev stated that \"enemy propaganda picked up the slogan and blew it all out of proportion\".\n\nSome authors suggest that an alternative translation is \"We shall be present at your funeral\" or \"We shall outlive you\". Authors have suggested the phrase, in conjunction with Khrushchev's overhead hand clasp gesture meant that Russia would take care of the funeral arrangements for capitalism after its demise. In an article in \"The New York Times\" in 2018, translator Mark Polizzotti suggested that the phrase was mistranslated at the time and should properly have been translated as \"We will outlast you,\" which gives an entirely different sense to Khrushchev's statement.\n\nFirst Secretary Khrushchev was known for his emotional public image. His daughter admitted that \"he was known for strong language, interrupting speakers, banging his fists on the table in protest, pounding his feet, even whistling\". She called such behavior a \"manner, which suited his goal... to be different from the hypocrites of the West, with their appropriate words but calculated deeds\". Mikhail Gorbachev suggested in his book \"Perestroika and New Thinking for our Country and the World\" that the image used by Khrushchev was inspired by the acute discussions among Soviet agrarian scientists in the 1930s, nicknamed \"who will bury whom\", the bitterness of which must be understood in the political context of the times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36409718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36409718", "title": "Wedding of Crown Prince Tupoutoʻa ʻUlukalala and Sinaitakala Fakafanua", "text": "Wedding of Crown Prince Tupoutoʻa ʻUlukalala and Sinaitakala Fakafanua\n\nThe wedding of Crown Prince Tupouto'a 'Ulukalala and Sinaitakala Fakafanua was held on 12 July 2012, at the Centennial Church in Nukuʻalofa, Tonga. Tongan Crown Prince Tupoutoʻa ʻUlukalala married Sinaitakala Fakafanua, his second cousin and 26th in line to the throne, during the ceremony.\n\nThe wedding marked the first marriage of a Tongan Crown Prince in sixty-five years. However, the union caused some controversy among Tongans, as the bride and groom are second cousins.\n\nTupouto'a 'Ulukalala became Crown Prince of Tonga and first in line in royal succession in March 2012 following the death of King George Tupou V and the ascension of Tupou VI to the throne. The wedding ceremony marked the end of Tonga's one-hundred-day mourning period marking the death of George Tupou V, who died in March. The Crown Prince is the son of Tupou VI and the nephew of the late King George Tupou V.\n\nAll royal marriages in Tonga are arranged. Under Tongan royal protocol and tradition, members of the royal family may only marry members of Tongan nobility to maintain the royal bloodline. The bride, Sinaitakala Fakafanua, is also a member of the royal family and 26th person in the line of succession to inherit the throne.\n\nQueen Nanasipau'u Tuku'aho, the wife of the current king, personally arranged the marriage between Crown Prince Tupouto'a 'Ulukalala and Sinaitakala Fakafanua. The queen pushed for a July wedding, even though the royal family must continue to wear black until February 2013 to mark George Tupou V's death. The queen's arrangement was opposed by her husband, King Tupou VI, who questioned whether it was appropriate for second cousins to marry.\n\nThe Prince was 27 years old at the time of the 2012 wedding, while the bride was 25 years old.\n\nEarlier in the week, a Ma'utohi ceremony was held to mark the issuance of their marriage license. The Ma'utohi was followed by a reception, held at Fakafanua's home.\n\nThe wedding ceremony was held at the Centenary Church of the Free Wesleyan Church of Tonga in Nuku'alofa on 12 July 2012. Tupouto'a 'Ulukalala became the first Crown Prince to marry in sixty-five years. The groom wore grey and black morning dress, while the bride wore a long sleeve, lace wedding gown with a veil that reached the floor of the church.\n\nMore than 2,000 guests attended the ceremony, including chiefly families from Samoa and Fiji. Noticeably absent from the ceremony were Queen Mother Halaevalu Mataʻaho ʻAhomeʻe and her daughter (king's sister), Princess Pilolevu, who disapproved of the marriage.\n\nMembers of the international media visiting Tonga to cover the wedding were given detailed instructions on how to behave during the ceremony. Photography was banned in sacred areas, with the government warning that it would confiscate or delete any photos taken in prohibited places. Photographers were asked to sit on the ground and \"stand up quickly\" to take a photo before sitting back down. Female journalists could not wear sleeveless dresses or shirts and men were to wear suits and ties. Umbrellas, hats, and sunglasses were banned throughout the wedding, while gum, food and drinks were not allowed at the Tongan Royal Palace.\n\nThe marriage between the Crown Prince and Fakafanua caused much controversy over the practice of marrying closely related cousins. The two of them are double second cousins (that is, Fakafanua's father and mother are each the first cousin of the prince's father). The wedding between the cousins was openly criticised by members of Tongan political and royal circles. A leader of New Zealand's Tongan community noted that there is no word for cousin in the Tongan language; cousins are considered and called \"brother\" or \"sister\", which reinforces the controversy among ordinary Tongans.\n\nAccording to royal sources, King Tupou VI opposed the marriage due to their close relations and made his disapproval known to members of the royal family. (The king's wife, Queen Nanasipau'u, had arranged the royal wedding.) Two prominent members of the Tongan royal family, Queen Mother Halaevalu Mataʻaho ʻAhomeʻe and the king's sister, Princess Pilolevu refused to attend the ceremony. Daughter of Princess Pilolevu, Hon. Frederica Tuita, who is ninth in line to the throne, openly condemned the union, calling the royal arranged marriage \"extremely arrogant and only perpetuated the motive behind social climbers.\"\n\nPolitical figures and members of the Tongan community also weighed in on the controversy. Pro-democracy leader 'Akilisi Pohiva criticised the wedding, telling TVNZ, \"They are too close...I do not know about biological effects of two close bloods mixed together, but I think they need new blood from outside.\" A leader of Tongans living in New Zealand, Will Ilolahia, stated that many Tongans opposed the second cousins' marriage, but were unwilling to speak out publicly. Speculation also centred on possible genetic disorders that may result from a marriage of two close relatives.\n\nLord Vaea, an uncle of the Crown Prince, defended the marriage saying, \"It's a new beginning for the royal household. They are both in their 20s, we are looking at that to preserve that constitutional monarchy within Tonga.\" A New Zealand geneticist noted that there is \"only a slight risk\" of genetic disorders for the offspring of cousins who marry.\n\nIn addition to the controversy over royal genetics, the wedding took place amid economic and political uncertainty. Tonga was projected to have the slowest economic growth in the Pacific Islands region during 2012. The royal family agreed to pay for the costs of the wedding; past weddings had been covered by the Tongan government. The government of Tonga may also face a potential vote of no confidence in the week following the wedding, adding to the country's political and economic woes.\n"}
{"id": "42454261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42454261", "title": "Weltsekttag", "text": "Weltsekttag\n\nThe Internationaler Sekttag, Weltsekttag or Sekttag is celebrated on 9 April, occasionally also upon other days, mainly amongst German-speaking students and members of German Student Corps and Studentenverbindungen in general.\n\nThe tradition of the Weltsekttag was founded in the short interim period separating the wars of the Second and Third Coalition, and was initiated amongst others by the German poet Ludwig Achim von Arnim as a sign of unity against the tyranny of Napoleon Bonaparte.\n\nGerman student and poet Carl Ludwig Börne was the first to propose the celebration of a \"Weltsekttag\" during an academic conference held at Gießen upon the 4th of March 1805, without favouring a particular date, however. The idea was inspired by attempts in the previous years by French vintners to initiate collective day of marked resistance to the coalition wars and the resulting economic conditions which had had a strongly negative effect upon the wine trade. These attempts were largely unsuccessful. Ludwig Achim von Arnim brought the idea to Halle an der Saale, one of the oldest and most important German universities and a centre of the literary movement of the Enlightenment in the late 18th and early 19th century, where it was picked up by academic \"Kränzchen\" (\"little circles\") and \"Convente\" (\"conventions\") of similar corporations.\n\nWhile it was the poet Ludwig Achim von Arnim who carried the original idea to Halle, it were the German poets Ludwig Börne and Clemens Brentano who were responsible for the foundation of the actual tradition of the fixed \"Sekttag\" during the 1805 conference of Gießen, where the decision was accepted.\n\nThe \"Beschluss\" (decision) of Gießen read as follows:\n\nThe first Sekttag was subsequently celebrated upon the 9th of April 1805 in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The choice of the date was intended to symbolically represent and underline the happy and open-minded character of the Sekttag.\n\nToday, more than 200 years after the original celebrations, students gather yearly upon the 9th of April (and also occasionally upon other days, varying from university city to university city) either under more organized forms of tradition or in less formal gatherings, to drink sparkling wine and honour the memory of the great poets and students. Academic drawings and paintings from the first half of the 19th century not rarely depicts a drinking student who stands upon a table with a glass in his hand, which is a telling reference to the popularity which the tradition would soon come to enjoy. Achim von Arnims immortal \"Sektlied\" is still sung around the world by German-speaking celebrants:\n\n"}
{"id": "35891134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35891134", "title": "World Wrestling Peace Festival", "text": "World Wrestling Peace Festival\n\nThe World Wrestling Peace Festival was a professional wrestling supercard produced by Japanese professional wrestler Antonio Inoki, which took place on June 1, 1996 at the Los Angeles Sports Arena in Los Angeles, California. The event was organized by Inoki to promote world peace with an interpromotional event involving major promotions from around the world. Forty wrestlers from six countries ended up taking part in the event.\n\nInoki's home promotion New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW), as well as smaller independent groups, represented Japan, while World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) took part on behalf of the United States. The World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) were the only major promotions in North America not to participate in the show although this was not unexpected given their tense relationships with WCW during the Monday Night Wars. Both of Mexico's top promotions Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA) and Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) participated in the event, which was considered unlikely by many in the industry given their own heated rivalry.\n\nThe main attraction on the event card was a tag team match with Antonio Inoki and NWA World Heavyweight Champion Dan Severn wrestling Yoshiaki Fujiwara and Oleg Taktarov. Inoki and Severn won the match when Severn pinned Fujiwara with a keylock. One of the featured bouts on the undercard was a title match between WCW World Heavyweight Champion The Giant and Sting, which The Giant won. Other matches included a \"NJPW vs. Michinoku Pro\" match between Jyushin Thunder Liger and The Great Sasuke, a triangle match between AAA Americas Heavyweight Champion Konnan, Chris Jericho and Bam Bam Bigelow, and a tag team match pitting Perro Aguayo and La Parka against Pierroth Jr. and Cibernetico.\n\nThe event had an attendance of 5,964, far less than the 17,000 promoters were expecting, which was attributed to a poor choice of venue and lack of advertising. Though not as financially successful as Inoki's \"Collision in Korea\" show the previous year, he was widely praised for his efforts. This was the first-ever wrestling show that Inoki promoted in the United States. The event, which also helped raise money for wrestling and judo programs in Los Angeles-area high schools, was supported by then Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan and Los Angeles County Supervisor Michael D. Antonovich. A few days before the show, Inoki was made honorary chief of police of Little Tokyo. At the show's conclusion, Inoki was also awarded a special \"PWI Lifetime Achievement Award\" by \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" senior editor Bill Apter.\n\nIn addition, it received positive reviews from publications such as \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" and the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\". This was supported by the internet wrestling community when it was released on DVD, albeit without matches featuring WCW wrestlers, years later. Arnold Furious of the professional wrestling section of 411mania.com rated the event a 7.0 out of 10. In his review, Kevin Wilson of PuroresuCentral.com called Inoki's Peace Festival \"probably the biggest show to ever take place in America\" featuring international talent and that \"the majority of the matches were good and a few were near excellent\".\n\nThe show is credited, along with AAA's \"When Worlds Collide\" show two years earlier, with helping introduce lucha libre to mainstream American wrestling fans. Eric Bischoff, who appeared with representatives from AAA and CMLL to open the show, later brought Rey Misterio Jr. and Chris Jericho into WCW, based on their performance in their respective matches, to compete for its cruiserweight division.\n\nTerry Funk was scheduled to face Sabu and Brian Pillman in a three-way match, but pulled out of the show on May 8 after Pillman was sidelined following an automobile accident and Sabu was removed from the show after being booked for Big Japan Pro Wrestling (BJW) on the same date.\n\n"}
{"id": "19372720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19372720", "title": "Yogi Bear's All Star Comedy Christmas Caper", "text": "Yogi Bear's All Star Comedy Christmas Caper\n\nYogi Bear's All Star Comedy Christmas Caper is a 1982 animated Christmas television special starring Yogi Bear. It is the third and final Yogi Christmas special. Produced by Hanna-Barbera, it first aired on on CBS.\n\nWhen Huckleberry Hound and his friends Hokey Wolf, Snagglepuss, Quick Draw McGraw, Augie Doggie and Doggie Daddy, and Snooper and Blabber visit Jellystone Park for Christmas, they discover Yogi Bear and Boo-Boo have escaped from Jellystone and hidden out in a department store, where Yogi is posing as a Santa Claus. Along the way, he helps a little girl named Judy Jones rediscover her faith in Christmas when her father, a billionaire named J. Wellington Jones, is too busy for her. Yogi says that many parents have to work hard to support their kids, and since her father is not home, Yogi and Boo-Boo propose escorting Judy through the city to bring her to her dad. Ranger Smith and the others look for Yogi when they learn he and Boo-Boo are in the city. Yogi reunites with his friends, who help to look for Judy's father. \n\nIn his search, Snagglepuss encounters Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble as Street Santas, who tell him to ask a passing lady his question. When the old lady screams in fear of Snagglepuss, Fred and Barney attack him, claiming it to be an entertainment purpose. Snooper and Blabber go to the police. Quick Draw has no luck, as Mr. Jinks hasn't seen Mr. Jones; Pixie and Dixie leave a present for Mr. Jinks (which contains a bulldog). Magilla Gorilla, Wally Gator, and Yakky Doodle haven't seen Mr. Jones either, and since Yogi hasn't had any luck locating her dad's office, they take Judy to Jellystone to try to figure out a plan there. At Judy's home, J. Wellington Jones is troubled when his daughter isn't there, so he calls the police to help find her. Also working with the police is Ranger Smith, who is looking for Yogi and Boo-Boo. The police are at the department store where Judy was last seen, and interrogate all the men who work as Santas. When they realize Judy went off with a Santa who wasn't a department store employee, they assume she was kidnapped. This accusation concerns Ranger Smith (despite having past problems with Yogi's antics, he can't believe Yogi would commit such a grave act). \n\nSnooper and Blabber were speaking to the Chief of Police at the time when word comes that Judy was seen in the park by a patrol car, and the Chief heads out to personally see the arrest of Judy's kidnapper. At the park, Yogi and his friends celebrate Christmas when the police arrive with Mr. Jones, accusing Yogi Bear of kidnapping his daughter. Yogi tells Mr. Jones that he needs to spend more time with Judy before she becomes an adult, but Mr. Jones denies it because he's busy all the time and is never home, only to then realize that Yogi is right. Guilty over his failure of being a good father to Judy, Mr. Jones tells the police to release Yogi by telling the Chief that it was really his fault that Judy ran off with Yogi, taking full responsibility for the whole debacle that's happened today, and Ranger Smith takes care of sorting out anything else the police would charge Yogi with. The special then ends with everyone singing Christmas carols around a campfire in the park.\n\n\nOn , \"Yogi Bear's All Star Comedy Christmas Caper\" was released by Turner Home Entertainment on VHS then a DVD of it came out on December 7, 2010 by Warner Home Video.\n\n\n\"Yogi's Great Escape\" was released in 1987.\n\n"}
