{"id": "52806320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52806320", "title": "Abraham Elias Issa", "text": "Abraham Elias Issa\n\nThe Hon Abraham Elias \"Abe\" Issa CBE OJ (October 10, 1905 – November 29, 1984) was a Jamaican businessman, entrepreneur and hotelier acclaimed as “The Father of Jamaican Tourism”. As the first President of the Jamaica Tourist Board he guided the rise and boom in Jamaican tourism of the late 1950s.\n\nHis business accomplishments include the founding of Jamaica's first modern department store (Issa's of King Street), the country's first shopping plazas (Tropical Plaza at Half-Way-Tree and Liguanea Plazas), Jamaica's first supermarket (Hi-Lo at Cross Roads in Kingston), Jamaica's modern horse-racing track (Caymanas Park) and being a guiding force behind the development of New Kingston, now the island's commercial center. He built Tower Isle Hotel, Jamaica's first all-season resort later evolving it into Couples Hotel, Jamaica's first all-inclusive resort and first couples only resort.\n\nAbe Issa was born in Kingston, Jamaica to Mary Brimo (died 1953), daughter of Damascus, Syria merchant Joseph Brimo, and Elias Abraham Issa (May 29, 1876 - September 1, 1969), son of Bethlehem, Palestine merchant Abraham Issa who immigrated to Kingston, Jamaica in 1894 with his son Elias. Abe's parents Elias and Mary were married on Feb 25, 1900 and the union gave birth to four children, Bertha, Abe, Joseph, and Annie.\n\nThe Issa family struggled to establish itself in Kingston. A small notions shop, opened at 32 Princess Street in 1894, failed and Abe's father and grandfather were reduced to peddling goods door to door until they could open a new shop at 27 Orange Street. By 1900 they succeeded in bringing Abe's grandmother Sara and his father's brothers John, Antonio and Joseph to Jamaica.\n\nIn 1901 Abe's father Elias formed a partnership with his brothers as E.A. Issa & Bros. The enterprise thrived and in 1905 moved to 132 Harbour Street. The shop was destroyed in the January 14, 1907 Kingston earthquake which also took the life of Abe's Uncle Joseph.\n\nWith their goods only half insured and their books destroyed the brothers strove to recover and managed to reopen business at Penchon and Barry streets on April 4, 1907. The business flourished and in 1911 moved to the more advantageous 135 Harbour Street then, as business grew, to the larger 153-157 Harbour Street.\n\nAbe Issa began his elementary education at St. Aloysius School in 1910 then went on to high school studies at St. George's College from 1918-1922. Following a nine-month stint teaching English to South American students, he departed for Worcester, Massachusetts to begin his university education at College of the Holy Cross. In 1926 he graduated Summa Cum Laude and delivered his valedictory address in Latin.\n\nAbe returned to Kingston in 1926 and entered the family business. On Dec. 1930 he opened the family's first retail store, Issa's of King Street, that featured international luxury goods. By force of his personality and his insistence on quality service the business thrived. He and his family would go on to expand their retail business opening three more shops on King Street while expanding the original store from two to four stories and introducing the first escalator in Jamaica. In 1958 he would purchase Nathan's, the leading competitor department store.\n\nIn the early 1930s Abe traveled extensively on the business’ behalf to North America and Europe. In 1934 he traveled Japan via Russia and the Trans-Siberian Railroad and worked 14 months in Yokohama operating a factory that manufactured rubber-soled shoes.\n\nAbe's international experiences and knowledge of luxury quality merchandise combined with his outgoing and effusive personality served him well in the family's first move outside the retail trade. On March 14, 1943 the Issa's bought the Myrtle Bank Hotel and a next door laundry from United Fruit Company for £35,000. Under Abe's guidance the hotel gained renown as a favored gathering spot of celebrities and distinguished visitors. Its guests included actor Errol Flynn, jazz great Louis Armstrong, actress Joan Crawford, Walt Disney, future Jamaican prime minister Norman Manley, future United States presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson II and British Prime Minister Winston Churchill.\n\nAbe rose to become the Vice President of Kingston's Chamber of Commerce. In 1942 he was heralded as \"Man of the Year\" by Kingston's \"Spotlight Magazine\". The following year he made a foray into politics by forming the Jamaica Democratic Party. While the party failed to win any legislative seats in the 1944 election it began Abe's long involvement in the affairs of the soon-to-be independent nation.\n\nAbe's boldest move came in 1948 when he built Jamaica's first all-season resort outside the then undeveloped fishing port town of Ocho Rios. Built on a north coast cove with a small barrier reef island Tower Isle Hotel became an immediate sensation and a destination for the well-heeled and glitterati of those days. Abe was pictured with actress Ava Gabor, boxing champion Joe Louis, actresses Debbie Reynolds, Jane Russell and Mary Martin, playwright Noël Coward, film director Cornel Lumiere, Britain's Princess Margaret, singer Lena Horne, travel writer Eugene Fodor, actor Errol Flynn and comedian Norman Wisdom. Tower Isle's success triggered the explosion of tourist destinations on Jamaica's north coast. Frequently ahead of his time Abe rebranded Tower Isle as Couples Hotel in 1978 converting it from an all-comers hotel to Jamaica's first all-inclusive and couples-only resort, creating a business model that would be widely imitated. The hotel remains a part of the Issa family properties as Couples Tower Isle and became the foundation property of Couples Resorts. The barrier reef island upon which a tower stands and from which the property's name derives serves as the resort's au naturel beach.\n\nIn 1955 Abe became the first President of the newly formed Jamaica Tourist Board serving in that post until 1963. He led an aggressive international marketing campaign. Jamaican tourism grew from 86,000 tourists and £4 million in revenue in 1955 to 227,000 tourists with £38 million in revenue in 1962. In 1958 he was appointed to Jamaica's legislative council on approval by the Queen. In 1959 he was elected President of the Caribbean Tourist Association.\n\nDuring this time he led his family's business expansion with the opening of the Hi-Lo at Cross Roads in Kingston, Jamaica's first super market, Caymanas Park, Jamaicas first modern horse-racing track and was a key figure in the development of New Kingston that today is Kingston's commercial and business center. In 1961 Abe became Chief Executive of the House of Issa, the successor family entity to E.A. Issa & Bros. In 1969 the family's patriarch Elias Issa passed at age 93 leaving behind a great legacy and a memorable quote, “Nothing shortens life like worry… my worries don’t last. I do something about them.”\n\nOn August 6, 1962 Jamaica became an independent nation and Abe played several key roles in the young nation's economic development. He served as a director of the Jamaica Industrial Development Corporation, headed the Development Finance Corporation, and its successor Jamaica Development Bank and as director of the Urban Development Corporation where he outlined plans for cruise ship access to Kingston's harbor. He served as Chairman of Jamaica Unit Trust Services Ltd. the managing company of the Jamaica Investment Fund and in 1974 served as chairman of Free Zone Promotional Council. From 1965-1972 he served as a Board Member of Air Jamaica. In 1968 he took over and turned around of the troubled assets of Runaway Bay Golf and Country Club and Runaway Bay Golf Course from Sunley Hotels Ltd. In 1973 he obtained the Hertz car rental franchise for Jamaica.\n\nIn 1960 Abe Issa was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for his contributions in the field of tourism. He was awarded the Order of Jamaica (OJ) in 1980 in recognition of his pioneering role in the development of the tourism industry in Jamaica. In 1984 he was awarded Norman Manley Award For Excellence in the Field of Tourism. In 2004 he was posthumously honored by being placed on a Jamaican postage stamp being hailed as “the Father of Jamaican tourism” for his role in the creation of the Jamaican Tourist Industry.\n\nWhile on 1931 business trip to New York City, Abe met Lorraine Shaouy, daughter of Adele Massabni and Elias Shaouy of Beirut, Lebanon, a designer who had moved to New York in 1898 and opened design school and was later a real estate investor. Abe and Lorraine married in Bethlehem, Palestine on Feb. 1, 1937. The couple would have six children, Carole, Brenda, the twins Suzanne and Lee (Elias), Jackie, Paul.\n\nAbe excelled in sports as a cricketer, footballer (soccer) and tennis player. Broadly read and widely traveled he acquired the \"savoir faire\" that provided him with the sophistication, social ease and grace that would charm and induce cooperation with the cast of celebrities, royalty, politicians and business colleagues who crossed his path in life.\n\nAbe Issa died on November 29, 1984 following a period of terminal illness. His life would encompass his family's rise from the death and destruction of the 1907 earthquake to its establishment of as a world renowned Jamaican business empire. It would witness Jamaican independence and economic development in which he would play the leading role in the development of the nation's most important economic asset of tourism.\n\nHis House of Issa continues on encompassing retail and hospitality industry assets led by his sons Lee Issa and Paul Issa. His famed Tower Isle Hotel has become the anchor property of the award-winning all-inclusive resort chain Couples Resorts. His daughter Susanne authored a pictorial biography of him with the fitting title of “Mr. Jamaica Abe Issa”.\n"}
{"id": "56056556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56056556", "title": "Airlangga Hartarto", "text": "Airlangga Hartarto\n\nAirlangga Hartarto (born 1 October 1962) is an Indonesian businessman and politician. He is the current Minister of Industry in President Joko Widodo's Working Cabinet, and the chairman of Golkar Party.\n\nAirlangga was born in the East Java capital of Surabaya on 1 October 1962. His father Hartarto Sastrosoenarto, an engineer and politician, served as a minister in various portfolios for former president Suharto for 15 years from 1983 to 1998.\n\nAirlangga was active in the boy scouts, attending national and international jamborees. He completed high school at Kanisius College in Jakarta in 1981. He received a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering from Gadjah Mada University in 1987. He failed to complete his master’s degree at the University of Pennsylvania. He later received a master’s degree in management technology from Monash University and a master’s in business administration from the University of Melbourne.\n\nAirlangga has been involved in numerous businesses, ranging from fertilizer distribution to paper packaging and construction machinery. Following are some of his corporate roles.\n\nAirlangga joined Golkar Party in 1998. In 2004, he became a member of the House of Representatives as a member of Golkar. He served as deputy treasurer of Golkar from 2004–2009. In his second term as a legislator in the 2009-2014 period, he chaired House Commission VI on industry, trade, investment and state-owned enterprises. During this time, he introduced the 2014 Industry Law. In his third term as a legislator, which commenced in 2014, he served in House Commission VII on mineral resources, environment, research and technology. In April 2015, he was transferred to Commission X on education, tourism, creative economy, culture, sports and youth. In January 2016, he became a member of Commission XI on financial affairs.\n\nHe was appointed to cabinet as industry minister on 27 July 2016 by President Joko Widodo. On 13 December 2017, he was selected to become Golkar chairman, replacing Setya Novanto, who had been arrested and put on trial for alleged corruption.\n\nAirlangga is the older brother of businessman Gunadharma Hartarto (1962-2004). His other siblings are Indira Asoka, Gautama and Maya Dewi. Airlangga is married to Yanti K. Isfandiary and they have eight children: Adanti, Ravindra, Audi,Dines, Bianda, Latasha, Maisara and Natalie.\n"}
{"id": "21339206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21339206", "title": "Alexander Nesis", "text": "Alexander Nesis\n\nAlexander Nesis (born December 19, 1962, Leningrad, USSR) is the founder, president and CEO of the ICT Group, a private equity firm headquartered in Moscow, Russia, which invests mainly in the finance, precious metals and engineering sectors.\n\nBorn in Leningrad in 1962, Nesis studied radiochemistry at the prestigious Lensovet Leningrad Institute of Technology. After graduation he worked as master supervisor at the Baltic Shipbuilding Yard (the largest and one of the oldest in Russia, est. 1856), which produced a variety of ships including nuclear icebreakers and submarines. In the early 1990s, Nesis left the shipyard to set out as an entrepreneur, opting to work for himself rather than for the state.\n\nTogether with a small group of business partners, he first concentrated on the production of materials derived from uranium deposits located in the deserts of Uzbekistan. In 1991, the same group of entrepreneurs embarked upon a new venture to invest in the shipbuilding and metals industries. In 1993, their company became known as the ICT Group. In the same year, having made his fortune, Nesis returned to the Baltic Shipbuilding Yards as its controlling shareholder and Head of Board of Directors.\n\nThe ICT ('Investments, Construction, Technologies') Group, founded by Nesis in the early 1990s, is now one of the largest privately owned investment and industrial companies in Russia. It is headquartered in Moscow and has a large office in St. Petersburg. It invests in, develops and manages assets in wide range of industries, including the banking and financial industry, metals and mining, precious metal production, heavy engineering, logistics, construction and development.\n\nAt present, the portfolio of assets under the Group's management includes such recognized leaders in their respective industries as NOMOS-BANK, Khanty-Mansi Bank, Polymetal and Tikhvin Freight Car Building Plant. The Group also holds large equity stakes in the potash producer Uralkali and Baltic Leasing. The group's assets are located primarily in Russia, but it also has interests in Kazakhstan. According to ICT's website, the total value of its assets under management stands at $8 billion.\n\nNesis and the ICT Group's preferred business strategy is to set up a project and grow it until it can be run independently. ICT has been described as a kind of incubator, which holds on to investments while they are in the design or technical research stage before spinning them out separately when they have reached a critical mass. In terms of engineering, he places a strong emphasis on the design stage: \"If you make a mistake at the design stage, that's very difficult to repair. If you make a mistake at the construction page, it's easier to repair [...] it's very important to find the right technology solution.\"\n\n\nAs of March 2012, \"Forbes\" put Nesis's personal wealth at approximately $3.1 billion, putting him at No.367 in its list of billionaires and making him No.31 in Russia.\n"}
{"id": "38290834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38290834", "title": "Ali Aldabbagh", "text": "Ali Aldabbagh\n\nAli Mehdi Jawad Aldabbagh (born 18 July 1955) is an Iraqi engineer, businessman and politician who served as government spokesman until November 2012.\n\nAldabbagh was born in Kerbala on 18 July 1955. He hails from a Shiite family. He received a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from Baghdad University in 1977. Then he obtained a master's degree in environmental pollution from the same university in 1983. He also holds a PhD in business administration, which he received in 2003.\n\nAldabbagh worked in private sector in various countries, including the UAE, Canada and Japan. He also dealt with business in Iraq and was co-owner of a family firm called Tigris Building Contractors.\n\nHe served as mid-level official in the Baath party. He is the leader of the independent Kafaat Gathering, a political party represented in the Iraqi parliament. He was appointed state minister to the second cabinet of Nouri Al Maliki in December 2010. He is part of the state of law coalition in the cabinet.\n\nHe served as government spokesman until 29 November 2012 when his resignation was accepted by Maliki. Aldabbagh resigned from his post due to his alleged involvement in the Russian arms deal. Maliki did not appoint anybody to succeed Aldabbagh as spokesman, but Ali Al Moussawi, media advisor of Maliki, was given the authority of spokesman.\n"}
{"id": "20298911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20298911", "title": "American Metal Market", "text": "American Metal Market\n\nAmerican Metal Market (AMM) is an online provider of industry news and metal pricing information for the U.S. steel, nonferrous and scrap markets. Products include a daily publication available in an electronic pdf, live news on the publication's website, a hard-copy magazine and a series of weekly newsletters covering niche markets. The publication also plays host each year to a number of industry conferences and events covering the state of various metal markets. It has been hailed for its impartial coverage of the mining and manufacturing sectors, said to be “as vital to the metal-buyer as the ticker is to Wall Street.” \"\n\"American Metal Market\" is a sister publication to London-based Metal Bulletin and a subsidiary of international publishing group Euromoney Institutional Investor.\n\nFirst published in 1882 as a weekly news and price paper and never having missed a scheduled publication date, \"American Metal Market\" is considered the longest continuously published newspaper in the industry. In April 2002, the daily publication switched from a traditional, hard-copy newspaper to a strictly electronic format, in which form it remains today.\n\n"}
{"id": "31144072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31144072", "title": "Aras Agalarov", "text": "Aras Agalarov\n\nAras Iskenderovich Agalarov (; ; born 8 November 1955) is an Azerbaijani-Russian billionaire businessman, property developer, public figure, and author.\n\nBorn in Baku, Agalarov was educated at the Azerbaijan Polytechnical Institute. There, he studied computer engineering and was a member of the Communist Party of Azerbaijan and Baku City Committee. He moved with his family to Moscow in 1998, where he co-founded Crocus International alongside his father-in-law, Iosif Yevgenevich, which specializes in trade fairs, where he still makes most of his money.\n\nAgalarov then opened the first Crocus Inter store, which became a retail business that includes malls offering housewares. This moved him into property development, where he built the Crocus City Mall, the largest shopping centre in Moscow. Adjacent to this he then built the largest trade center in Russia on the outskirts of Moscow, Crocus Expo, and has since developed a luxury housing development. He has partnered with Robert De Niro in Nobu Matsuhisa's two Moscow restaurants.\n\nIn 2012, the built a new campus for the Far Eastern Federal University outside Vladivostok. Agalarov says he had to buy a larger Gulfstream jet to visit the site, where he spent $100 million of his own money on cost overruns on the $1.2 billion campus of 70 new building on Russky Island overlooking the Pacific Ocean. He then won projects for a Moscow superhighway and two stadiums for the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\nIn January 2013, Agalarov and his son visited Las Vegas, Nevada, after Donald Trump, the beauty pageant's owner, announced at Miss Universe 2012 that the next competition would be hosted by Agalarov in Moscow. He paid Trump $20 million to host the pageant. In November 2013, President Vladimir Putin awarded Agalarov the Russian Order of Honor. That month, Agalarov hosted Miss Universe 2013 at his Crocus City Hall. Moreover, Agalarov's wife acted as a judge on the panel while his son was one of the performers.\n\nHerman Gref, who runs Sberbank of Russia, Agalarov and his son hosted a dinner for Trump on the night of the pageant. While in Moscow, Phil Ruffin, who is a partner in Trump International Hotel Las Vegas, and Trump met with the Agalarov and his son at the Ritz-Carlton. Trump then appeared in a music video with Agalarov's son alongside many of the contestants. Trump and Agalarov planned on a $3 billion project, with state-owned Sberbank agreeing to provide 70% of the financing.\n\nAgalarov has served as a liaison between Trump and Putin. According to an interview, they once discussed the construction of a Trump Tower in Russia. Agalarov had also reportedly tried to set up a meeting between the two, but this was canceled due to Putin having to meet the Dutch royal couple at the time. Putin instead sent Trump a fedoskino miniature.\n\nIn 2014, Kyrgyzstan signed a treaty with Russia that named Crocus Group as the single supplier of services to integrate into the Eurasian Economic Union, avoiding competitive bidding on the $127 million deal.\n\nAgalarov's son, Emin, helped arrange Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya's June 9, 2016 meeting with Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort in Trump Tower. Following the meeting, Agalarov wired $1.2 million to a bank in New Jersey controlled by Emin, a transfer which is being investigated by American law enforcement.\n\nEmin said that after Trump won the United States presidential election in 2016, Trump sent them a handwritten note, saying he does not forget his friends.\n\nAs of June 2017, he had an estimated net worth of US$1.91 billion, most of which is derived from his real estate ventures. In January 2017, \"Forbes\" listed him as the 51st richest Russian.\n\nAgalarov is married and has two children. His son Emin Agalarov is a businessman and singer/songwriter. Emin was married to Leyla Aliyeva, the daughter of the current President of Azerbaijan, Ilham Aliyev, until they divorced in May 2015. Agalarov has twin grandsons from his son's marriage. In July 2017, Agalarov put his mansion in Alpine, New Jersey up for sale for $7 million. The mansion eventually sold in November 2017 for $5.8 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "50277289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50277289", "title": "Baldur Ágústsson", "text": "Baldur Ágústsson\n\nBaldur Ágústsson is an Icelandic businessman, who ran for president of Iceland in 2004 and 2016.\n\nBaldur started his career as a wireless operator on board a fishing boat, and later became an air traffic controller at Reykjavík Airport. Meanwhile, he set up Iceland´s first security firm, Varði. In the early 2000s he lived in Britain where he was engaged in real estate business. He was the main challenger against incumbent Olafur Ragnar Grimsson in the 2004 Icelandic presidential election where he got 12.5% of the vote. It was only the second time a sitting president had been challenged and the first time a challenger got more than 6% of the vote.\n\nHis motivation for running was dissatisfaction with the President vetoing a media bill, which was the first use of a presidential veto in the history of Iceland. \n\n\"I personally believe that Ólafur Ragnar should not have used it on a smallish issue such as media bill. It is a bit like a lifeboat. You don’t use it when you want to go on a trip, you use it when there is an emergency and this was not an emergency.\"\n\nIn May 2016 he announced his decision to run for president once more aiming to \"restore respect for the presidency, to promote a better service to the sick, the elderly and the disabled, to promote friendship with foreign nations and operate the presidency within the framework of the budget.\"\n"}
{"id": "44497396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44497396", "title": "Bernard Hours", "text": "Bernard Hours\n\nBernard Hours, born on 5 May 1956 in Strasbourg, is a French businessman. He is the managing director of Danone and a member of the board of directors of the company. He is also a member of the executive committee of Danone.\n\nHours graduated from the École des Hautes Études Commerciales (HEC) in 1978.\n\nHours began his career at Unilever in 1979 as Product Manager and Brand Manager. He progressively became an expert in the food sector.\n\nIn 1985, he joined the Danone marketing group at Kronenbourg. From 1989 and 2001, he was the Director of Sales of Evian, and then Director of Marketing for Danone France, later becoming the President of Danone Hungary (1994), Danone Germany (1996) and finally President of LU France in 1998.\n\nIn November 2001, Hours was named the Vice-President of the Fresh Dairy Products division and became the President in March 2002. In November 2006 he also took charge of the Research and Development at Danone.\n\nIn 2008, Hours was managing director of Danone, responsible for four operating divisions of the group: fresh dairy products, waters, baby nutrition, and medical nutrition, as well as of research and development.\n\nHours contributed significantly to sales growth between 2007 and 2013, which amounted to an increase of 36.4% (from 14 to 22 billion euros) during this period. He exercised is responsible for all activities of Danone, encompassing around 100,000 people in and 100 countries.\n\nIn 2014, at the time of a change of governance, Hours ended his position as managing director of Danone, by the decision of the Administrative Counsel.\n\nHours is a member of the Administrative Counsel of Essilor as an independent director and a member of the Administrative Counsel of the investment holding Verlinvest and its participation Vita Coco. He is also e member of the Supervisory Board of Somfy.\n\nIn 2009 he received the HEC prize of the year, decided by the jury and rewarded as recognition of executives for exceptional years, the actual strength of their business or institution, and their work towards the HEC community.\n\nHours is married and is the father of three children.\n"}
{"id": "6586203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6586203", "title": "Bihari brothers", "text": "Bihari brothers\n\nThe Bihari brothers, Lester, Jules, Saul and Joe, were American businessmen of Hungarian Jewish origins. They were the founders of Modern Records in Los Angeles and its subsidiaries, such as Meteor Records, based in Memphis. The Bihari brothers were significant figures in the process that transformed rhythm and blues into rock and roll, which appealed to white audiences in the 1950s.\n\nThe brothers' parents were Hungarian Jewish emigrants from Austria-Hungary to the U.S. Edward Bihari (1882–1930) was born in Budapest. Esther \"Esti\" Taub (1886–1950) was born in Homonna, Hungary (now Humenné, Slovakia). They were married in Philadelphia (U.S.) in 1911. They had four sons:\n\nIn addition to their four sons, they had four daughters: Florette, Rosalind and Maxine, all of whom worked in the Bihari brothers' business, and Serene, who did not. Serene married the New York real estate developer Irving M. Felt.\n\nAfter living for a period in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the Bihari family moved to Los Angeles in 1941. \nJules got a job servicing and operating jukeboxes in the Watts district, and found difficulty in locating and stocking the blues records his customers wanted to hear. He and his younger brothers, Saul and Joe, founded a new label, Modern Records, in 1945. They built Modern into a major blues and R&B label, their first success coming with \"Swingin' the Boogie\", by Hadda Brooks. They bought a pressing plant and divided tasks among themselves, with Jules responsible for talent spotting and recording, Saul for manufacturing, and Lester for distribution. Joe worked with Ike Turner as a talent scout in the Memphis area, discovering Johnny \"Guitar\" Watson, among others.\n\nIn the early 1950s the Biharis launched several subsidiaries: RPM Records, Flair Records and Meteor Records, which was set up in Memphis in 1952 and was headed by Lester Bihari. Successful artists on the Biharis' labels included B.B. King, Elmore James, John Lee Hooker, Etta James, Lightnin' Hopkins, Lowell Fulson, Rufus Thomas, Donna Hightower and Charlie Feathers.\n\nThe companies always remained small and personally run. B.B. King has said that he always felt the brothers were accessible: \"The company was never bigger than the artist. I could always talk to them.\"\n\nLater they launched more subsidiaries: Crown Records (featuring artists like Johnny Cole, Vic Damone, Trini Lopez with Johnny Torres, Jerry Cole, the Dave Clark Five) and United/Superior Records. In the sixties they launched a subsidiary, Yuletide Records, which specialized in Christmas records (mostly with Johnny Cole and the Robert Evans Chorus).\n\nIn the mid 1960s Modern Records went bankrupt and stopped operating, but the catalogue went with the management into what would become Kent Records. After the deaths of Saul, Lester and Jules Bihari, the label's catalogue was licensed to Ace Records (UK) in the mid-1980s and purchased by Ace in the 1990s.\n\nThough they were not songwriters, the Biharis often purchased or claimed co-authorship of songs that appeared on their own labels, thus securing songwriting royalties for themselves, in addition to their other sources of income.\n\nSometimes these songs were older standards renamed. B.B. King's rendition of \"Rock Me Baby\" was such a tune; anonymous jams, as with \"B.B.'s Boogie\" or songs by employees, such as bandleader Vince Weaver. The Biharis used a number of pseudonyms for songwriting credits: Jules was credited as Jules Taub, Joe as Joe Josea, and Saul as Sam Ling. One song by John Lee Hooker, \"Down Child\" is solely credited to \"Taub\", with Hooker receiving no credit for the song whatsoever. Another, \"Turn Over a New Leaf\" is credited to Hooker and \"Ling\". Taub was the Biharis' mother's maiden name.\n\nCommonly known among music circles but not publicly acknowledged is that Jules and the Bihari brothers would effectively steal music from up and coming black artists by taking advantage of the artists financial situation. The Biharis would have their name added to writing credits when they had nothing to do with the creation of the music in any way.\n\nB.B. King has said: \"The company I was with knew a lot of things they didn’t tell me, that I didn’t learn about until later... Some of the songs I wrote, they added a name when I copyrighted it,\"...\"Like 'King and Ling' or 'King and Josea.' There was no such thing as Ling, or Josea. No such thing. That way, the company could claim half of your song.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "32845870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32845870", "title": "C. N. Sharma", "text": "C. N. Sharma\n\nChandra Narine Sharma (born 5 August 1952) is a Guyanese activist, television station owner, talk show host, and politician.\n\nC.N. Sharma is a certified pandit.\n\nThrough his television station on his talk show voice of the people he highlights the poor living conditions of guyanese people.throughout his years of service for the poor he has gona through many challenged mr sharma through his station CNS TV 6 is well know by the Guyanese people he was at one time voted as the most popular Guyanese personal despite his many difficulty he has maintain his commitment to help the poor and ordinary people of Guyana\n"}
{"id": "41693802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41693802", "title": "Catherine Samba-Panza", "text": "Catherine Samba-Panza\n\nCatherine Samba-Panza (born 26 June 1956) was interim President of the Central African Republic from 2014 to 2016. She was the first woman to hold the post of head of state in that country, as well as the eighth woman in Africa to do so. Prior to becoming head of state, she was Mayor of Bangui from 2013 to 2014.\n\nSamba-Panza was born in Fort Lamy, Chad, to a mother from the Central African Republic (CAR) and a Cameroonian father. Prior to politics, she was a businesswoman and corporate lawyer. She moved to the CAR at the age of 18. She was trained in law at Panthéon-Assas University.\n\nShe was appointed Mayor of Bangui, the capital of the CAR, by the National Transitional Council (CNT) during the 2012–13 conflict on 14 June 2013. Her appointment was accepted by both sides in the conflict, as well as by French President Francois Hollande. She is a non-partisan.\n\nFollowing the Central African Republic conflict under the Djotodia administration and President Michel Djotodia's resignation after a CEEAC summit on 10 January 2014, Alexandre-Ferdinand Nguendet served as acting president until the CNT elected Samba Panza as interim President from a list of eight candidates who had to prove they had no links to either the Séléka or the Anti-balaka. She was to lead the country to the 2015 election. Of the MPs who voted in the election, 129 of the 135 MPs were in parliament. After beating Désiré Kolingba in a second round ballot, she said:\"I call on my children, especially the anti-balaka, to put down their arms and stop all the fighting. The same goes for the ex-Séléka – they should not have fear. I don't want to hear any more talk of murders and killings. Starting today, I am the president of all Central Africans, without exclusion.\"\n\nHer call for talks between both sides to the conflict was welcomed by the parties. She was sworn in as President on 23 January 2014. André Nzapayeké was appointed as Prime Minister to serve during her tenure. She presided over a period that was said to be without law, functioning police or courts. Comparisons were drawn in asking if this would be the \"next Rwanda;\" although \"Al Jazeera\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Barnaby Phillips suggested the Bosnian Genocide's aftermath may be more apt as people were moving into religiously cleansed neighbourhoods. Samba-Panza suggested poverty and a failure of governance was the cause of the conflict.\n\nSamba-Panza replaced Nzapayeké (a Christian) as Prime Minister with Mahamat Kamoun (a Muslim, but without ties to Séléka) in August 2014. As Séléka had no ties to Kamoun, it threatened to boycott the government and threatened to withdraw from the ceasefire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3261664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3261664", "title": "Concession (contract)", "text": "Concession (contract)\n\nA concession or concession agreement is a grant of rights, land or property by a government, local authority, corporation, individual or other legal entity.\n\nPublic services such as water supply may be operated as a concession. In the case of a public service concession, a private company enters into an agreement with the government to have the exclusive right to operate, maintain and carry out investment in a public utility (such as a water privatisation) for a given number of years. Other forms of contracts between public and private entities, namely lease contract and management contract (in the water sector often called by the French term \"affermage\"), are closely related but differ from a concession in the rights of the operator and its remuneration. A lease gives a company the right to operate and maintain a public utility, but investment remains the responsibility of the public. Under a management contract the operator will collect the revenue only on behalf of the government and will in turn be paid an agreed fee.\n\nA grant of land or property by a government may be in return for services or for a particular use, a right to undertake and profit by a specified activity, a lease for a particular purpose. A concession may include the right to use some existing infrastructure required to carry out a business (such as a water supply system in a city); in some cases, such as mining, it may involve merely the transfer of exclusive or non-exclusive easements.\n\nIn the private sector, the owner of a concession — the \"concessionaire\" — typically pays either a fixed sum or a percentage of revenue to the owner of the entity from which it operates. Examples of concessions within another business are concession stands within sporting venues and movie theaters and concessions in department stores operated by other retailers. Short term concessions may be granted as promotional space for periods as short as one day.\n\nDepending on what the law that is related to a sector states, concession can either allow the authority to retain or keep ownership of the assets, turning over to the concessionaire and reverting the ownership back to an authority once the duration of their concession ended, or both the authority and concessionaire own the facilities.\n\nMuhammad Ali of Egypt used contracts called concessions to build cheap infrastructure - dams and railroads - whereby foreign European companies would raise capital, build projects, and collect most of the operating revenue but would provide Ali's government with a portion of that revenue. For other examples of concessions, see \"Gibbons v. Ogden\" and United States railroad policy.\n\nWithin the European Union, the granting of concessions by public bodies is subject to regulation. Works concessions have been subject to award rules for some time as Directive 2004/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the European Council on public procurement applied to works concessions, and the award of services concessions with a cross-border interest has been subject to the principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. However, the European Parliament and the European Council issued a further Directive 2014/23/EU on the award of concession contracts on 26 February 2014 which required EU member states to introduce national legislation covering the award of concession contracts in excess of EUR 5,186,000 awarded on or after 18 April 2016.\n\nIn the UK, the threshold for concession contracts is £4,104,394.\n\n"}
{"id": "3183084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3183084", "title": "Consularization", "text": "Consularization\n\nIn international law, consularization is the act of authenticating any legal document by the consul office, by the consul signing and affixing a red ribbon to the document. International trade shipments often require consular invoices and other documents that may need to be consularized include travel documents (such as a parental consent letter for persons under 18 traveling without a parent), letters of credit, and powers of attorney.\n\nA consular invoice is a document, often in triplicate, submitted to the consul or embassy of a country to which goods are to be exported before the goods are sent abroad. The completed documents then travel with the goods and enable the customs officials in the destination country to verify the quantity, value and nature of the goods on arrival. A fee may be charged by the consulate for the checking and approval of the documents.\n\nAt the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade round in 1952, it was proposed that consularization of commercial invoices be abolished. In 2005, the United States and Uganda submitted a proposal to the World Trade Organization to abolish consularization.\n\nAlternative terms include \"konsularfaktura\" (German), \"facture consulaire\" (French), \"factura consular\" (Spanish), \"fattura consolare\" (Italian) and \"fatura consular\" (Portuguese Br.).\n"}
{"id": "7644869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7644869", "title": "Cost driver", "text": "Cost driver\n\nA cost driver is the unit of an activity that causes the change in activity's cost.\n\n\"Cost drivers are the structural determinants of the cost of an activity, reflecting any linkages or interrelationships that affect it\". Therefore we could assume that the cost drivers determine the cost behavior within the activities, reflecting the links that these have with other activities and relationships that affect them.\n\nThe Activity Based Costing (ABC) approach relates indirect cost to the activities that drive them to be incurred. \nActivity Based Costing is based on the belief that activities cause costs and therefore a link should be established between activities and product. The cost drivers thus are the link between the activities and the cost.\n\nGenerally, the cost driver for short term indirect variable costs may be the volume of output/activity; but for long term indirect variable costs, the cost drivers will not be related to volume of output/activity.\n\nIn traditional costing the cost driver to allocate indirect cost to cost objects was volume of output. With the change in business structures, technology and thereby cost structures it was found that the volume of output was not the only cost driver. \nJohn Shank and Vijay Govindarajan list cost drivers into two categories:\nStructural cost drivers that are derived from the business strategic choices about its underlying economic structure such as scale and scope of operations, complexity of products, use of technology, etc., and\nExecutional cost drivers that are derived from the execution of the business activities such as capacity utilization, plant layout, work-force involvement, etc.\nResource cost Driver is measure of quantity of resources consumed by an activity. It is used to assign cost of a resource to activity or cost pool.\nActivity Cost Driver is measure of frequency and intensity of demand placed on activities by cost object. It is used to assign activity costs to cost objects.\n\nTo carry out a value chain analysis, ABC is a necessary tool. To carry out ABC, it is necessary that cost drivers are established for different cost pools.\n\nSome examples of indirect costs and their drivers are: indirect costs for maintenance, with the possible driver of this cost being the number of machine hours; or, the indirect cost of handling raw-material cost, which may be driven by the number of orders received; or, inspection costs that are driven by the number of inspections or the hours of inspection or production runs. In marketing, cost drivers are Number of advertisements, Number of sales personnel etc. In Customer service, cost drivers are Number of service calls attended, number of staff in service department, number of warranties handled, Hours spent on servicing etc..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31591075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31591075", "title": "David L. Hawk", "text": "David L. Hawk\n\nDavid L. Hawk (born c. 1948) is an American management theorist, architect, and systems scientist, specializing in environmental management. From 1981 to 2010 he was professor of management in the School of Management at the New Jersey Institute of Technology (NJIT) and professor of architecture at the College of Architecture and Design at NJIT.\n\nHawk received a B.Arch in Engineering from Iowa State University in 1971, a M.Arch. and a M.C.Planning in Fine Arts from the University of Pennsylvania in 1974, and a Ph.D. in Systems Sciences in Corporate Planning from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia in 1979. His dissertation \"Regulation of Environmental Deterioration\" was Chaired by Russell L. Ackoff and supervised by Eric Trist. Its research basis was on the 1975 US Legal Order system of regulation leading to climate change and other unmitigated consequences. The research proposed \"Negotiated Order\" as a more viable way to avoid ethical cynicism found in US trained lawyers and lead to serious reduction in the human impact on the larger environment of the world. Twenty major companies and ten nations helped with the research done via the Stockholm School of Economics. Sweden's Prime Minister presented the results to OECD. \n\nBefore starting his academic career in 1974 Hawk worked in industry after serving in the U.S. Army in the Republic of Vietnam from 1966 to 1968. From 1968 to 1974 he had a series of jobs such as design engineer for ACCO Loudon; architectural designer in Darmstadt, Germany; farm manager in Brighton, Iowa; Civic designer and planning officer at Westminster City Council, London, England in 1971-72; and designer and corporate researcher for multiple public and private organizations in the Philadelphia region from 1972 to 1974.\n\nHawk started working as research associate at the Wharton School in 1974. He was a visiting researcher and faculty member at the Stockholm School of Economics from 1975 to 1977, then a visiting faculty member until 1996. From 1978 to 1981 he was an assistant Professor at Colleges of Engineering and Design of the Iowa State University, where he coordinated the graduate studies in Architecture. In 1981 he started at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, was an associate dean in 1983-85 while designing several graduate programs. He became NJIT's only dual professor in 1991 in management at the School of Management, and in architecture at the College of Architecture and Design at NJIT. From 2006 to 2008 he also served as Dean at the School of Management. From 1989 to 1991 he was on leave from NJIT and back at the Institute of International Business of the Stockholm School of Economics, and from 1998 to 1999 was on another leave and with the Helsinki University of Technology\n\nFrom 1994 to 1996 Hawk was at Bell Labs AT&T as an Industrial Ecology Fellow developing new models for reduced pollution via industrial redesign. In 2001, he was honored as a Master Teacher at NJIT. He serves as Senior Adviser to one of China's largest firms, China State Construction. In 2003 hawk began serving two years on the Congressional Commission set up to study the role of business in government leadership: \"Committee on Business Strategies for Public Capital Investment\", for the National Academy of Sciences. \n\nIn 2010 Hawk was formally fired by NJIT's President Altenkirch for being 1) \"non-collegial\" to faculty missing their classes, for 2) opposing the President's initiative to get students to pay for bringing NCAA to NJIT, 3) for Hawk developing close ties to Tsinghua University in Beijing, which the President had never heard of, 4) for hiring a friend that was one of the world's leading researchers into international entrepreneurship thus attracting $2 million for a Chair in NJ Entrepreneurship that Hawk refused to use for an athletics expansion on campus, 5) for spending $415 on mini bar expenses in a Beijing Hotel, that turned out to be $30 and was for bottles of coke and Evian Water, not any alcohol. NJIT legal team continued to argue that Evian is French Liquor, not water, and that China uses US Dollars as its currency, not Yuan. NJIT pressed another 20 charges like these against Hawk, then resorted to \"hiring\" a NJ judge via the NJ Judicial Code to review the charges at $500/hour for 18 months and \"objectively\" find Hawk guilty of 1 of the 25 charges. The judge was very nice and quite smart, but could not work his way from a Faustian Dilemma. \n\nHawk continued to advise a number of foreign corporate leaders on US investments. Since 2008 they stopped investing in New Jersey based on the NJIT vs. Hawk case being on a cloud website in Chinese and German. Based on his familiarity with Donald Trump and how a growing number of Hawk's white male students liking the Donald Style, although the female students did not, Hawk initiated the Eternal Feminine Foundation in 2015. It now manages around $700 million where it supports young poor girls in college attendance (not NJIT) via 6%/year. Its investments take in about 10%/year. Wealthy businessmen with daughters continue to donate money to the Foundation's objective of keeping men like Trump from inheriting leadership positions while also preparing females to manage the consequences of failure in this objective. The 2015 beginning of the Foundation seems like a long way in the past. \n\nHawk is also Director of Center of Corporate Rehabilitation on his farm in Iowa. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52508819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52508819", "title": "Dual process model of coping", "text": "Dual process model of coping\n\nMargaret Stroebe and Henk Schut studied grief in \"The Dual Process Model of Coping with Bereavement: A Decade On\". In this study, the models of coping were examined and how it could be of benefit compared to others. They came up with a dual process model to represent human grief. They explain coping with bereavement, a state of loss can be a combination of accepting and confronting it. It informs on how the combination of healthy emotional catharsis and changing perspective can be a good and healthy process to cope. Being able to confront the situation and also deal with everyday life events allows the person to live their lives with desired states of stability in a subjective post-loss world in which bereaved persons find themselves (Parkes, 1993).\n\nBereavement and the adjective bereaved derive from a verb, 'reave', which means \"to despoil, rob, or forcibly deprive\" according to the Oxford English Dictionary. Thus, a bereaved person is one who has been deprived, robbed, plundered, or stripped of someone or something that they valued. Reaction to this state or impact of loss is called grief. According to Lazarus and Folkman (1984), coping strategies are the \"constantly changing cognitive and behavioural efforts to manage specific external and/or internal demands that are appraised as taxing on or exceeding the resources of the person\". People vary in the ways that they grieve and also in the way that they cope. But, acknowledging it and allowing themselves to go through the motions will allow them to cope in a healthy way. To cope with the loss, the person requires to relearn the world around them and simultaneously make a multifaceted transition from loving in presence to loving in absence (Attig, 2001). A healthy relocation of the deceased internally and maintaining a healthy dynamic connectedness/relationship is observed to provide solace to the grieving, but the weightage differed in pluralistic cultural settings. Grievers will go through times of extreme sadness and also times where they are numb to what has happened. Lack of appropriate coping can bring many ailments to a person including mental and physical ailments. Coping through mourning in a state of bereavement is advised in the Bible as \"Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted.\" Because it helps to achieve growth through thorough acceptance of loss, the transforming capacity of profound human experiences. Freud in 1959 through an article called this as a process of \"working through\" the grief. Healthy coping is achieved when the bereaved person is enabled to go forward with healthy, productive living by effortfully developing \"new normals\" to guide that living which is characterized by lesser stressful demands compared to initial phase of grief.\n\nGreenblatt has reviewed spousal mourning is essential for transition. He describes 4 phases of mourning: the initial reaction of shock, numbness, denial and disbelief; followed by pining, yearning, depression then in a healthy environment resolution phase begins with emancipation from the loved one and readjustment to the new environment.\n\nThe loss oriented process focuses on coping with bereavement, the loss itself, recognizing it and accepting it. In this process a person will express feelings of grief with all the losses that occur from losing their loved one. There will be many changes from work to family and friendships. There might also be demographic changes and even economic ones. During this time, people either acknowledge these changes head or ruminate on feelings of lose which might lead to distorted, complicated or prolonged grief. The loss oriented process will bring on a lot of yearning, irritability, despair, anxiety and depression. During this process they are only concentrated on their pain that this loss has caused. Lack or denial of early adaptive acknowledgement that they will no longer speak to deceased or see them again might instigate compulsive and self-destructive behaviors. People attached with the deceased have to reconfigure their identity as an autonomous being. These process in a non-resilient griever can appear overwhelming, and associated guilt can be exported over friends and family in an assumptive effort which might affect interpersonal relationships.\n\nIn restoration-oriented process, the loss of the loved one is accepted and attachments with the deceased are relinquished. These include focusing on the new roles in their post loss reality and responsibilities in lives. The restoration-oriented process incorporates endurance through reconstruction of perspective by taking over grief, grieving thoughts are adjusted adaptively by creating new meanings with the deceased. The restoration process is a confrontation process, that allows the person to adjust with the world without the deceased. People in this process can feel subjective oscillations of pride and grief related stressors in the avoidance mentalization. This process allows the person to live their daily life as a changed individual without being consumed by the grieving they are facing. William Worden calls this as the four tasks of grief. Therese A. Rando calls the letting go process as emancipation from bondage due to the strength required for change and recovery.\n\nThe dual process model of coping takes into consideration that everyone will have stressful life events, while they are coping with bereavement. Their lives will continue and so will the problems associated with it. There will be many situations that will take them away from grieving. These situations can either benefit them or affect them negatively if they allow them to. Being aware and prepared to change can allow them to continue and deal with post loss life events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "995445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995445", "title": "Emilio Estefan", "text": "Emilio Estefan\n\nEmilio Estefan Gómez (born March 4, 1953) is a Cuban-American musician and producer of Lebanese heritage. Emilio has won 19 Grammy Awards. Estefan first came to prominence as a member of the Miami Sound Machine. He is the husband of singer Gloria Estefan, father of son Nayib Estefan and daughter Emily Estefan, and the uncle of Spanish-language television personality Lili Estefan.\n\nEmilio Estefan Gómez was born on March 4, 1953 in Santiago de Cuba, Cuba to Emilio Estefan, Sr. (c. 1920–2003) and Carmen Maria Gómez (1921–2006). Carmen's parents Antonio Gómez and Carmen Vasquez were Spanish immigrants who met while the latter was working for the Bacardi family. Cuban-born Emilio Sr. was the second-to last child in his family (which consisted of eleven siblings), and he had Lebanese ancestry from his paternal side—many of whom were textile traders that traveled throughout Cuba and the Caribbean. Emilio Sr. was raised by his widowed mother Julia, as his father had died when he was still a child. \n\nIn 1967, at the age of fourteen, Estefan and his father Emilio Sr. fled Cuba for Spain due to the Cuban Revolution. The Estefan family planned to reunite in the United States and, as a result, Carmen chose to remain behind because she did not want to abandon her parents. In addition, Estefan's older brother José (b. 1945) was drafted in the military and could not leave Cuba until 1980. For about a year, Estefan and his father lived an impoverished life in Spain before relocating permanently in Miami, Florida. Although circumstances were far better in Miami, Estefan and Emilio Sr. still struggled as they lived in a cramped house with Estefan's aunt and 8 cousins. Estefan did not reunite with his mother until 1971 when she was finally able to immigrate to the United States. \n\nIt was during his formative years that Estefan cultivated his musical sensibilities, as he had often used his accordion-playing skills to earn enough tips to support his father and family.\n\nIn 1975, Gloria and her cousin Mercedes \"Merci\" Navarro (1957–2007) met Estefan while performing at a church ensemble rehearsal. Estefan, who had formed the band the Miami Latin Boys earlier that year, learned about Gloria through a mutual acquaintance. While the Miami Latin Boys were performing at a Cuban wedding at Hotel Dupont, Gloria and Merci (who were wedding guests) performed two Cuban standards impromptu. They impressed the Miami Latin Boys so much that they were invited to join the band permanently with the band's name changing to Miami Sound Machine. Gloria, who was attending the University of Miami at the time, only agreed to perform during the weekends so that her studies would not be interrupted. \n\nEventually, Miami Sound Machine would perform with Gloria Estefan (née Fajardo) as the lead singer and headliner.\n\nAs a producer, Estefan has shaped the careers of several music superstars. He has also produced various events for both general market and Hispanic market television. These events include the Latin Grammys, Hispanic Heritage Awards, Nuestra Navidad, and some high-profile productions on HBO and Showtime. He has also produced many musical events at the White House.\n\nIn 2008, Estefan produced and directed his first full-length documentary \"90 Millas\" to showcase the history and pioneers of Cuban music.\n\nEstefan gathered dozens of Latino entertainers in 2010 to record Michael Jackson's \"We Are The World\" in Spanish. The Spanish language version, already written by Estefan and approved by Quincy Jones, became \"Somos El Mundo\". It premiered during \"El Show de Cristina\" on March 1, 2010 and the funds went to the Haiti relief.\n\nAlso, in 2010, Estefan released his book \"The Rhythm of Success – How an Immigrant Produced his own American Dream.\" The following year, Estefan presented the book \"The Exile Experience: A Journey to Freedom\" in collaboration with writer Carlos Pintado and journalist Carlos Alberto Montaner, which included the personal testimonials from different generations of exiles.\n\n\"The Exile Experience: Journey to Freedom\" is published in three separate editions – each tailor-made for those who arrived through Operation Pedro Pan, the Freedom Flights and the Mariel boatlift. Each edition features the names of every Cuban who arrived via one of those three exoduses, and there has been an accumulation of 400,000 and more names amongst the three editions published. \n\nHe partnered with the Nederlander Group in 2013 to produce the Broadway musical extravaganza, \"On Your Feet!\" The musical is based on the life and musical legacy of the Estefans and Fajardos. \"On Your Feet!\" premiered on Broadway in October 2015.\n\nEstefan also became an AARP Life Reimagined ambassador in 2013. In his new role, Emilio shares his expertise on a variety of subjects, including his passion for living, mentoring, entrepreneurship, philanthropy, and much more.\n\nIn February 2014, Estefan directed and produced the documentary film \"An Unbreakable Bond\" about the real\"-\"life story of father-son duo Marc and Nick Buoniconti's undying commitment towards finding a cure for paralysis. The film premiered at National & International film festivals.\nIn early 2014, in a decision unanimously approved by the County Commission, Estefan was appointed Miami-Dade Special Ambassador by Miami-Dade County Commissioner Jean Monestime. In his unpaid\nfour-year non-partisan role, Emilio was set to represent the Miami-Dade community at an international level to encourage and promote the diversity of business and trade. During the same year, Estefan and Botrán Rum created a strategic marketing alliance including a personal endorsement by Estefan. Through his role, Estefan will help promote the brand throughout the U.S., leading a multi-channel marketing campaign with the mantra \"The Night Begins with Botran.\"\n\nEstefan sits as the second vice-chair to the Commission for the National Museum of the American Latino, a bi-partisan commission charged with exploring the possibility of creating a National Latino Museum in Washington D.C.\n\nGloria and Emilio Estefan own a number of business establishments, including several Cuban-themed restaurants (Bongos Cuban Café; Larios on the Beach). The restaurants are located in Miami Beach, downtown Miami (part of the American Airlines Arena), at the Seminole Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Hollywood, Florida, Walt Disney World's Disney Springs in Orlando, Florida, and in Miami International Airport. They also own two hotels: Costa d'Este in Vero Beach which opened in 2008, and The Cardozo in Miami Beach. In June 2009, Estefan and his wife became the first Hispanics to buy a minor ownership stake in an NFL team, the Miami Dolphins. According to articles published in \"People en Español\" and \"AARP Magazine\", the Estefans' estimated net worth as of 2011 was approximately $700 million.\n\nIn 1994, Estefan was awarded the El Premio \"Billboard\" award for his work in the Latin music industry. At the Latin Grammy Awards of 2000, he received the award for Producer of the Year for his work on the albums \"Ciego de Amor\" by Charlie Zaa, \"El Amor de Mi Tierra\" by Carlos Vives and the song \"Da la Vuelta\" by Marc Anthony and was recognized as Person of the Year by the Latin Recording Academy. \n\nIn 2002, he was appointed to the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President George W. Bush. In 2005, Estefan received the BMI \"Songwriter of the Year\" award and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Estefan has received honorary doctoral degrees from Barry University, the University of Miami, Florida International University and the Berklee College of Music. He also received the Sammy Cahn Lifetime Achievement Award by the Songwriters' Hall of Fame and the Ellis Island Medal of Honor in 2009. \n\nEstefan was inducted into the Latin Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2014. In November 2015, President Barack Obama awarded Estefan and his wife Gloria with the nation's highest civilian honor—the Presidential Medal of Freedom. They were also awarded Lo Nuestro Excellence Award in 2018.\n\nEstefan became romantically involved with the Miami Sound Machine's lead singer Gloria Fajardo in 1976. They married on September 2, 1978 and have a son, Nayib (born September 2, 1980), and a daughter, Emily (born December 5, 1994). The family lives on Star Island.\n\nEmily is a recording artist. Nayib is an aspiring filmmaker and owner of the Nite Owl Theater in Miami, Florida. On June 5, 2010, Nayib married Lara Diamante Coppola in the backyard of his parents' house. On June 21, 2012, the first Estefan grandchild was born: grandson Sasha Argento Coppola Estefan. Gloria Estefan has said that “Sasha Argento,” which means “benefactor of mankind” in Arabic, was a possible name that she and Emilio thought about naming their son Nayib.\n\n"}
{"id": "7887645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7887645", "title": "Eric Broadley", "text": "Eric Broadley\n\nEric Harrison Broadley MBE (22 September 1928 – 28 May 2017) was a British entrepreneur, engineer, and founder and chief designer of Lola Cars, the motor racing manufacturer and engineering company. He was arguably one of the most influential automobile designers of the post-war period, and over the years Lola had a hand in many high-profile projects in Formula One, IndyCar, and sports car racing. Broadley sold Lola to Martin Birrane in 1999.\n\nEric Broadley trained as an architect in the late 1940s, and after completing his studies took a job as a quantity surveyor. In his spare time Broadley was heavily involved in motor racing with the 750 Motor Club. In common with the majority of other competitors – including Colin Chapman, Frank Costin and Brian Hart – he built his own cars around Austin 7 chassis, using home-made and proprietary parts. His first car, the \"Broadley Special\") was built in 1956 to comply with rules governing the \"Ford Ten Special\" (or \"1172 Special\") class, using an 1172cc (72ci) side valve engine, originally introduced for the pre-war Ford Model C.\n\nThe Broadley Special was an instant success, winning a number of local and national events in the UK. On the back of this record Broadley, at the request of a number of drivers seeking something besides a Lotus XI, immediately began to design a chassis to accept a more powerful 1098cc (67ci) Coventry Climax engine and BMC A-series gearbox. This car, with its up-to-the-minute space frame chassis, was to become the Lola Mk1, named after the song \"Whatever Lola Wants\" from the contemporary musical \"Damn Yankees\". Although, as Broadley freely admits, the Mk1 was too powerful for his level of driving skill , in 1958 he became the first man ever to lap the Brands Hatch Indy circuit in under one minute. Once she was sorted, she beat the XIs \"with monotonous regularity\" (notably in the hands of Peter Ashdown, who racked up at least a score of wins, including a class win and sixth overall at the 1959 Tourist Trophy. Her success soon attracted the interest of other privateers, so Broadley and his cousin were prevailed upon in 1958 to build three further copies. Lola Cars Ltd. was born.\n\nStaying largely at Bromley, Broadley set up shop in West Byfleet, Surrey, using £2000 of his own savings, producing thirty-five more Mk1s through 1962, all with the Coventry-Climax. with ever-improving results on the track. Despite its limited experience, in 1960 Lola produced its first single-seat open-wheeled model: the Mark 2, for Formula Junior. Performance was promising rather than outstanding, and its front engine was a mistake, as the formula was soon to become dominated by rear and mid-engined cars. Despite these drawbacks, and only scoring one win in the 1960 season, forty-two examples were sold. Redesigned for 1961, the mid-engined Mk3 consistently finished behind contemporary Lotuses and Coopers.\n\nOn the back of his initial success, and despite his inexperience (and the failure of the Mark 2), in 1961 Broadley was approached by Reg Parnell to design and build a Formula One chassis for his Bowmaker-Yeoman Racing Team. The Lola Mk4 featured the usual tubular spaceframe, with an innovative front suspension using lower wishbones and upper transverse links with radius arms, while the rear had upper and lower transverse links and radius arm; Broadley's idea continued to be used into the 1970s. The Mark 4 originally used the common Coventry-Climax four, while a 1.5-litre (91ci) V8 later became available. Though John Surtees and Roy Salvadori proved quick in them, and a one was put on the pole in its first ever race, the 1962 Dutch Grand Prix, by Surtees, the car failed to finish. Surtees went on to win the 2000 Guineas at Mallory Park, and placed second at the British and German Grands Prix.\n\nBowmaker-Yeoman got out of Grand Prix at the end of 1962, selling their Mark 4s to the Tasman Racing Series; here, Surtees and teammate Tony Maggs did quite well, with Surtees winning the New Zealand Grand Prix (not a World Championship event). For 1963, Parnell sold one to Bob Anderson and ran another for Chris Amon, who was rarely successful, though he ran seventh in the British Grand Prix; Anderson did better, winning the (non-championship) Rome Grand Prix as a privateer. \n\nEfforts on a Formula Junior car, Mark 5, through 1962 led to nine sales but only limited success; an improved Mark 5A gave Richard Attwood a win in the Monaco Grand Prix Junior event. \n\nThe 1963 Racing Car Show debuted the sensational Mark 6 (Lola GT), a trendsetter into the '70s. It featured a Ford 4.2-litre (255ci) V8 and Colotti four-speed box under a sleek fiberglass body, showing good handling and \"a remarkable turn of speed\" for only 250 hp (186 kW), enough to put it in the running for the 1963 \"Vingt-Quatre Heurs du Mans\" until the gearbox balked and David Hobbs crashed.\n\nThis performance attracted the attention of Ford, who were looking for a way to win Le Mans, and offered Broadley a two-year deal to redesign the GT, setting up Ford Advanced Vehicles, in a factory on the Slough Trading Estate; it produced the GT-40, which differed in many respects from the Mark 6, not least in using a steel chassis rather than the aluminium of the Mark 6. This was one of many points at which Broadley found himself at odds with his American employers.\n\nBroadley, used to being his own boss, quit after 12 months, and as the FAV factory was in the name of Lola Cars, retained the plant forcing Ford to move to a different factory on the estate. The first cars from the newly independent company were the new Mark 5As for Midland Racing Partnership (as used by Attwood), now redesignated Mark 53. The derivative Mark 54 Formula Two single-seater, also used by Midlands, gave Attwood seconds at Pau, Albi, and the Nürburgring, while Maggs came second at Aintree. A monocoque single-seater for F2 and F3, the T60, was introduced in 1965; five were built, but were not a success, and the development models, T61 and T62, bought by Midlands and six other customers, were no better. The other 1965 debut, the T70, was just the opposite, \"destined to become one of the most successful and long lived of sports cars\". Offered with 5.4 or 6.2-litre (327ci or 377ci) Chevrolet and Hewland four-speed or ZF five-speed, and patterned on the Mark 6 and GT-40, it was nevertheless fresh, and was almost as big a revelation as its older sibling. FIA created Group 9 (later Group 7) just for the T70, while Surtees drove one in British races, including a Guards Trophy victory at Brands Hatch in a works car. Fifteen were sold in 1965, as well as thirty-two of the improved Mk2, introduced in 1966.\n\nIn his first venture at Indianapolis, Broadley's Type 80, with the 4.2-litre Ford, were unsuccessful. For 1966, team owner John Mecom ordered three improved T90s for Jackie Stewart, Graham Hill, and Rodger Ward; Stewart's fell out in the lead on Lap 190, giving Hill the win. A heavily modified T90 would put Al Unser in second in 1967.\n\nImproving the T70 in 1967, Broadley came up against the McLaren juggernaut in Can-Am and scored only one win, Surtees' at Las Vegas. To qualify for European prototype racing, Broadley designed a coupé body for the heavy, unreliable Aston Martin twin cam engine. This led to retirements at the Ring and LeMans, so Surtees switched to the reliable 5.7-litre (350ci) Chevrolet, revealing fragility in the suspension. Even so, Hawkins/Epstein took the Spa 1000km and Hawkins/Love second at the Kyalami Nine Hours in privateers. Finally homologated as a Group 4 coupé with Chevy engine in 1968, and despite poor performance in the World Championship due to lack of works support, it sold over one hundred copies to privateers. Prime among them was Denny Hulme, winning the Tourist Trophy that year, for starters. Developed as the Mk3B (officially T76) in 1969, with new bodywork and lighter weight, it went to private buyers such as Frank Gardner, Trevor Taylor, Paul Hawkins, and Mike de Udy, who picked up wins in SCCA events during 1969–70, as well as its first World Championship sports car race, in the hands of Mark Donohue and Chuck Parsons at the 24 Hours of Daytona (a one-two Lola finish), plus second by Jo Bonnier and Herbert Muller at the Austrian 1000km, giving Lola third in the championship.\nNor did Broadley neglect single-seaters. In 1967, he created an all-new monocoque, the F2 T100, only to waste considerable effort and money on the problematic BMW radial-valve engine; after a switch to the Cosworth FVA, it was a competitor, giving Surtees wins at Zolder and Mallory Park and second at Reims. It would later be revised as the T102 and supplied to BMW. The same year, Broadley's new Formula One T110, jointly with Surtees, was abandoned. The chassis for Honda's F1 car, also in 1967, came out a touch overweight, but light enough to win the Italian Grand Prix. Making use of the American 5-litre stock blocks and T70 suspension for Formula A, Broadley built the spaceframe T140 once-seater; it became T142 for the British equivalent, Formula 5000. \n\nIn 1968, Broadley returned to Indianapolis with the T150, suitable for either two- or four-wheel-drive; four-wheel-drive proved preferable, but even the greater traction could not prevent Unser from crashing. He also prepared the T160, to replace the outclassed T70, for Can-Am, providing several to American privateers, while Surtees, who planned to run a Chevy-powered Weslake-prepared car, broke with Lola and was uncompetitive.\n\nFor 1969, Broadley's T162 Can-Am car was run over by the dominant McLarens, and only seven were built. The subsequent T163 was little better, though Parsons earned one second and two-thirds. Additionally, the new T190 FA/F5000 car had a monocoque, more advanced than the T142, but a handful to drive. Partly in response, Frank Gardner was brought on board, perfecting the T190 so it was competitive, scoring wins at Thruxton and Silverstone, and getting Broadley's attention. Broadley stretched it further, into the T192, and asked Gardner to oversee development testing from then on.\n\nOfferings in Formula Two, Formula Three, Formula Ford, Formula Vee, Formula Super Vee, Formula Atlantic, and Can-Am kept Broadley very busy in the '70s. By 1972, Lola were virtually alone in providing customer cars. They were as quick as ever, as the T280 (built by request of Jo Bonnier) demonstrated, but they were still hampered by the absence of a dedicated development team, despite Gardner's presence. For all that, and for all the \"bewildering variety\", few Lolas were real failures.\n\n"}
{"id": "37312009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37312009", "title": "Ferenc Hirt", "text": "Ferenc Hirt\n\nFerenc Hirt (born on 29 September 1967) is a Hungarian entrepreneur and politician, member of the National Assembly (MP) for Tamási (Tolna County Constituency V) from 2006 to 2014, and for Paks, (Tolna County Constituency III) from 2014 to 2018. He was elected MP via the Fidesz national list in 2018. He is the first physically disabled MP in the history of Hungarian parliamentarism.\n\nHirt studied in Tamási and Szekszárd. He obtained a vocational diploma in 1985. After that he worked for the Tamási Építőipari Ktsz. as an electrician. He moved to the manufacturing unit of Orion Electronics in Tamási. In 1988, he suffered a car accident, resulting in his forced to a wheelchair.\n\nHe joined Fidesz in 2005. He was elected to the National Assembly during the parliamentary election in 2006. He was a member of the Committee on Youth, Social, Family, and Housing affairs between 30 May 2006 and 5 May 2014. He also chaired Subcommittee on Equality and Disability between 2007 and 2010. He became a member of the Tamási municipal council in 2010.\n\nHe has a daughter, Berill Zita Hirt.\n"}
{"id": "52634988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52634988", "title": "Freelancing in India", "text": "Freelancing in India\n\nGlobally, India ranks as the 2nd largest freelance workforce after the US with over 15 million people working independently in various sectors such as IT and programming, finance, sales and marketing, designing, animation, videography, content and academic writing. By 2020, 50% of workers are expected to go freelance. \n\nThere has not been much effort from India's government towards assisting freelancers until recently when it set up the \"Digital India Platform\" (DIP), an initiative to digitalize all government documents and where freelancers would be hired to help carry out the task. Anyone with a knowledge of computers, has access to the Internet and owns a valid Aadhar card would be eligible to apply for this freelance opportunity.\n\nIndia has about 15 million freelancers and they have been significantly boosting the growth of start-ups. While fostering the start-up economy in the country, Indian freelancers are also increasingly providing expertise to top-drawer corporations as business environments and needs evolve.\n\nThere are numerous highly educated women armed with masters and doctorate degrees in India who cannot pursue a regular occupation due to family and social obligations. Rather than cutting short their professional careers, these women seek out freelancing options.\n\nDespite freelancing providing a viable career option for women looking for flexibility and control the number of Indian women taking up freelancing is still small as compared to their male counterparts. In a survey conducted by Payoneer, a payments services provider based in New York in 2015, only 22 per cent of Indian freelancers are women. Not only this but the same report reveals that women are paid lesser than the men who freelance. While a male freelancer earns $19 per hour on an average, a female freelancer apparently earns $17 per hour for the same project.\n\nThe distinct shifts in areas like technology, culture, demographics and professional needs and goals have driven companies to reassess their human resource policies in order to accommodate the burgeoning freelance economy. It comes as no surprise that the start-ups in India are hiring 50 per cent of the total freelancing workforce. These companies are not only hiring freelancers or independent consultants at lower management. In fact, freelance CFO’s are also getting on board in order to help streamline a company’s finances. According to industry estimates, hiring their services of an outsourced CFO can result in operational savings of 30 to 70 per cent and depending upon the nature of the job, fees charged can range from Rs 30,000 to a few lakhs per month.\n\n"}
{"id": "47622127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47622127", "title": "Henrietta Johnson Louis", "text": "Henrietta Johnson Louis\n\nHenrietta Johnson Louis (1902 – 18 January 1992), was an American heiress.\n\nShe was born Henrietta Johnson in 1902 in Racine, Wisconsin, the daughter of Herbert Fisk Johnson Sr., the grand daughter of the S. C. Johnson & Son company founder Samuel Curtis Johnson Sr..\n\nHer father died in 1928, without leaving a will, and after a long legal battle, his estate was split equally between his two children.\n\nHer brother, Herbert Fisk Johnson Jr., was the third generation to lead the company.\n\nIn 1923, she married John J. Louis (1896 – 19 Feb 1959), and they had three sons:\n"}
{"id": "4175124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4175124", "title": "Horst Brandstätter", "text": "Horst Brandstätter\n\nHorst Brandstätter (June 27, 1933 – June 3, 2015) was the owner of the German company Brandstätter Group. The company was founded by Andreas Brandstätter in 1876.\n\nHorst Brandstätter was born on June 27, 1933 in Zirndorf, Germany.\n\nBrandstätter joined the family firm in 1952. His support of the inventor Hans Beck allowed the company to begin production on what became the popular toy Playmobil, prototypes of which had been developed by Beck at the company. The 1973 oil crisis necessitated the creation of a toy whose production required little solid plastic; he had asked Beck for \"the maximum amount of play value for the minimum amount of plastic\".\n\nHe died on June 3, 2015 in Fürth.\n"}
{"id": "47962975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47962975", "title": "Humanist Counseling in the Dutch Armed Forces", "text": "Humanist Counseling in the Dutch Armed Forces\n\nHumanist Counseling in the Dutch Armed Forces is a task in the Armed forces of the Netherlands. Humanist counsellors, sometimes called humanist chaplain, contribute to the (mental) well-being of military personnel, those related to them, and veterans. They do this through visible presence at the workplace, personal contact and guidance. They hold conversations, give advice and offer support. Issues concerning meaning and ethics are central to their work.\n\nThe work of humanist counsellors in the armed forces consists of:\n\nHumanist counsellors are appointed as civil servants, though for carrying out their work they are viewed equivalent to the military ranks (captain, major or lieutenant colonel). They are employed in the military, not by the military, and work outside the military hierarchy. Professionally they are not accountable to the Ministry of Defence or the military authority, but to the agency that sends them, the Dutch Humanist Society (Humanistisch Verbond). This service exists primarily for the people, not for the military apparatus. Humanist counsellors thus like to call themselves (positively) critically involved. \nHumanist counsellors give support, but also maintain a critical distance. It means being part of the (military) unit, befriending them and gaining access to their world, while at the same time being able to pose the critical question, keeping sufficient distance to be able to see things from a different perspective, to remain the involved outsider.\n\nWherever the soldiers are stationed, humanist counsellors are active, working for the benefit of the mental well-being of personnel in the armed forces. Humanist counsellors are thus, also stationed outside the Netherlands, for example at Curaçao, and join missions abroad as well as longer naval operations. \nA humanist counsellor works together with the unit they're stationed with. A counsellor goes along once in a while on patrol, helps out in the kitchen sometimes, sits with the guards at another time, or visits someone at the military field hospital. They are a member of the unit, while holding an independent position as well. They also join the deployments abroad, so they live and work in the same circumstances as the soldiers.\n\nThe humanist counseling department in the armed forces was introduced on 1 September 1964, in order to serve secular and non-religious soldiers. The department started with five counsellors. Over the years however, it has developed into one of the major counseling departments of the armed forces, with a current total of thirty eight humanist counsellors. The counsellors adopt the humanist philosophy in their work, not imposing one’s ideas onto others. In this form of counselling, the person asking for help and his own views and ways of thinking are central. But the counsellors do try to contribute to the humanization of the armed forces, by creating a more dignified, humane atmosphere.\n\nHumanism is a life stance in which the human being is central. Humanists want to determine their life-choices themselves, assuming self-responsibility, and living autonomously, but in connection with others and the world around them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1861441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1861441", "title": "Ivanka Trump", "text": "Ivanka Trump\n\nIvana Marie \"Ivanka\" Trump (; born October 30, 1981) is an American businesswoman, fashion designer, author and reality television personality. She is the daughter of the 45th President of the United States, Donald Trump, and former model Ivana Trump. Ivanka is her father's senior advisor and is also the first Jewish member of a First Family, having converted before marrying her Jewish husband, Jared Kushner.\n\nTrump is a fourth generation businessperson who followed in the footsteps of her great-grandmother Elizabeth Christ Trump (who founded the company), grandfather Fred Trump, and father Donald Trump. Ivanka was an executive vice president of the family-owned Trump Organization. She was also a boardroom judge on her father's TV show \"The Apprentice\". She moved to Washington, D.C. in January 2017 after her husband was appointed Senior Advisor to the President.\n\nStarting in March 2017, she began serving in her father's presidential administration. She assumed this official, unpaid position after ethics concerns were raised about her having access to classified material while not being held to the same restrictions as a federal employee. She was considered part of the president's inner circle even before becoming an official employee in his administration.\n\nIvana Marie Trump was born in Manhattan, New York City, and is the second child of Czech-American model Ivana () and Donald Trump, who in 2017 became the 45th President of the United States. Her father has German and Scottish ancestry and her mother has Czech and Austrian ancestry. For most of her life, she has been nicknamed \"Ivanka,\" a diminutive form of Ivana. Trump's parents divorced in 1992 when she was ten years old. She has two brothers, Donald Jr. and Eric, a half-sister, Tiffany, and a half-brother, Barron.\n\nTrump attended the Chapin School in Manhattan until she was 15, when she transferred to Choate Rosemary Hall in Wallingford, Connecticut. She characterized Choate's \"boarding-school life\" as being like a \"prison\", while her \"friends in New York were having fun\".\n\nAfter graduating from Choate, she attended Georgetown University for two years, then transferred to the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, from which she graduated \"cum laude\" with a bachelor's degree in economics in 2004. Her father had also transferred to Wharton after two years at another institution.\n\nTrump briefly worked for Forest City Enterprises. In 2005, she joined the family business as Executive Vice-President of Development & Acquisitions at The Trump Organization.\n\nIn 2007, she formed a partnership with Dynamic Diamond Corp., the company of diamond vendor Moshe Lax, to create Ivanka Trump Fine Jewelry, a line of diamond and gold jewelry, sold at her first flagship retail store in Manhattan. In November 2011, her retail flagship moved from Madison Avenue to 109 Mercer Street, a larger space in the fashionable Soho district.\n\nIn December 2012, members of 100 Women in Hedge Funds elected Ivanka Trump to their board.\n\nOn October 2, 2015, it was reported that \"Ivanka Trump's flagship store on Mercer Street appear[s] to be closed\" and, noting that the shop had been \"stripped clean\". In October 2016, the only dedicated retail shop and flagship boutique for Ivanka Trump Fine Jewelry is located at Trump Tower in Manhattan, New York City, with her brand also being available at Hudson's Bay and fine-jewelry stores throughout the U.S. and Canada, as well as in Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nShe also has her own line of Ivanka Trump fashion items, including clothes, handbags, shoes, and accessories, which is available in major U.S. and Canadian department stores, including, Macy's and Hudson's Bay. Her brand was criticized for allegedly copying designs by other designers, and by PETA and other animal rights activists for using fur from rabbits. In 2016, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission recalled \"Ivanka Trump\"-branded scarves because they did not meet federal flammability standards. A 2016 analysis found that most of the fashion line was produced outside the U.S. Ivanka Trump-brand shoes have been supplied by Chengdu Kameido Shoes in Sichuan and Hangzhou HS Fashion (via G-III Apparel Group) in Zhejiang.\n\nIn February 2017, department store chains Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom dropped Trump's fashion line, citing \"poor performance.\"\n\nOn February 9, 2017, Presidential Advisor Kellyanne Conway controversially encouraged Fox News viewers to purchase Trump's retail products. In June 2017, three people with the organization called China Labor Watch were arrested by Chinese authorities while investigating Huajian International, which makes shoes for several American brands, including the Ivanka Trump brand. The Trump Administration has called for their release.\n\nOn July 24, 2018, Ivanka Trump announced that she decided to shut down her company after deciding to pursue a career in public policy instead of returning to her fashion company.\n\nWhen Trump was attending boarding school as a teenager, she got into modeling \"on weekends and holidays and absolutely not during the school year,\" according to her mother, Ivana Trump. She was featured in print advertisements for Tommy Hilfiger and Sasson Jeans and walked fashion runways for Versace, Marc Bouwer and Thierry Mugler. In May 1997, she was featured on the cover of \"Seventeen\" which ran a story on \"celeb moms & daughters\".\n\nTrump joined the Trump Organization in an executive position. Soon after that, she started her jewelry, shoe, and apparel lines, and she appeared in advertisements promoting the Trump Organization and her products. She was also featured in women's and special interest publications in \"soft-hitting\" profiles focusing on her \"looks, lifestyles, and product lines\", and featuring her on the cover of the same issue, like \"Harper's Bazaar\", \"Forbes Life\", \"Golf Magazine\", \"Town & Country\", and \"Vogue\".\n\nShe was featured on the cover of \"Stuff\" in August 2006 and again in September 2007.\n\nIn 2006, Trump filled in for Carolyn Kepcher on five episodes of her father's television program \"The Apprentice 5\", first appearing to help judge the . Like Kepcher, Trump visited the site of the tasks and spoke to the teams. Trump collaborated with season 5 winner Sean Yazbeck on his winner's project of choice, Trump SoHo Hotel-Condominium.\n\nShe replaced Kepcher as a primary boardroom judge during the sixth season of \"The Apprentice\" and its follow-up iteration, \"The Celebrity Apprentice\".\n\nIn 1997, at the age of just 15, Trump co-hosted the Miss Teen USA Pageant, which was partially owned by her father, Donald Trump, from 1996 to 2005.\n\nIn 2006, she was a guest judge on Project Runway's third season and on season 4 of \"Project Runway All Stars\".\n\nIn 2010, Trump and her husband briefly portrayed themselves in Season 4 Episode 6 of \"Gossip Girl\".\n\nIn October 2009, Trump's first self-help book, \",\" was published; according to ghostwriter Daniel Paisner, he co-wrote the book.\n\nIn May 2017, her second self-help book, \"\", was published; she used the services of a writer, a researcher, and a fact-checker.\n\nIn 2015, she publicly endorsed her father's presidential campaign. She was involved with the campaign by making public appearances to support him. and defending him. However, she admitted mixed feelings about his presidential ambitions, saying, in October 2015, \"As a citizen, I love what he's doing. As a daughter, it's obviously more complicated.\" In August 2015, Donald Trump stated that she was his leading advisor on \"women's health and women\" and said it was she who propelled him to elaborate on his views of women.\nIn January 2016, Trump was featured in a radio ad which aired in the early voting states of Iowa and New Hampshire, in which she praised her father. She appeared by his side following the results of early voting states in 2016, in particular briefly speaking in South Carolina. She was not able to vote in the New York primary in April 2016 because she had missed the October 2015 deadline to change her registration from independent to Republican.\n\nTrump introduced her father in a speech immediately before his own speech at the 2016 Republican National Convention (RNC) in July. The George Harrison song \"Here Comes the Sun\" was used as her entrance music. She stated: \"One of my father's greatest talents is the ability to see the potential in people\", and said he would \"Make America Great Again\". Her speech was well received as portraying Donald Trump \"in a warmer-than-usual light\", according to the \"Washington Post\". An earlier \"Post\" article had questioned whether the policy positions Ivanka Trump espoused were closer to those of Hillary Clinton than to those of her father. After the speech, the George Harrison estate complained about the use of his song as being offensive to their wishes. The next morning, Ivanka's official Twitter account tweeted, \"Shop Ivanka's look from her #RNC speech\" with a link to a Macy's page that featured the dress she wore.\n\nAfter her father's election, Trump wore a bracelet on a family appearance with the president-elect on \"60 Minutes\". Her company then used an email blast to promote the appearance of the bracelet. After critiques for \"monetization\", the company quickly apologized calling the publicity the work of \"a well-intentioned marketing employee at one of our companies who was following customary protocol\". A spokeswoman said that the company was, post-election, \"proactively discussing new policies and procedures with all of our partners going forward\".\n\nIvanka Trump has collected the work of artists who have protested to her directly following her father's election victory. In January 2017, artist Richard Prince returned a $36,000 payment he received for a work featuring Ivanka and disavowed its creation. Other artists joined behind a movement created by the Halt Action Group called @dear_ivanka, which aimed to change Trump's policies by appealing to Ivanka. Among its supporters were contemporary artist Alex Da Corte who told Trump to stay away from his paintings after she appeared in front of one on a social media post.\n\nOn Friday, January 20, 2017, she attended the inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States, at the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C..\n\nAfter Donald Trump's election, rumors swirled about the future role that Ivanka would play in her father's administration. In early 2017, she stepped down from her post at the Trump Organization; the organization also removed images of Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump from their websites, in accordance with official advice on federal ethics rules. In the early months of her father's presidency, some commented that she was filling a quasi-First Lady role while First Lady Melania Trump remained in New York City (her son Barron completed the school year in New York before the First Lady moved to Washington); Ivanka Trump stated that she had no intention of being First Lady.\nAfter advising her father in an unofficial capacity for the first two months of his administration, she was appointed Advisor to the President, a government employee, on March 29, 2017. She takes no salary. Prior to becoming a federal employee, she used a personal email for government work.\n\nAmid the contentious early months of her father's administration, some commentators compared her role in the administration to that of Julie Nixon Eisenhower, daughter of President Richard Nixon. Julie was one of the Nixon administration's most vocal defenders, and Trump defended the Trump administration and her father personally against a myriad of allegations. \"Washington Post\" opinion columnist Alyssa Rosenberg wrote, \"Both daughters served as important validators for their fathers.\"\n\nIn early April 2017, the government of China extended trademarks to Trump's businesses. On the same day, Donald Trump hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-A-Lago and Trump and Kushner sat next to the Chinese leader and his wife Peng Liyuan at the state dinner. Also during the visit, Trump and Kushner's five-year-old daughter Arabella \"sang a traditional Chinese song, in Mandarin, [for Xi]. The video, which was lavishly praised by Chinese state media, played over 2.2 million times on China's popular news portal\", Tencent QQ.\nIn late April 2017, Trump hired Julie Radford as her chief of staff. Before the end of the month, Trump and Radford had plans to travel with Dina Powell and Hope Hicks to the first W20 women's summit. The W20 was organized by the National Council of German Women's Organizations and the Association of German Women Entrepreneurs as one of the preparatory meetings leading up to the G20 head-of-state summit in July. At the conference, Trump spoke about women's rights; she was booed by the audience when she praised her father as an advocate for women.\n\nIn a recent announcement, Donald Trump said that his daughter will lead the U.S. delegation to India this fall in a global support of women's entrepreneurship. In response to this announcement, an Indian diplomat was quoted as stating: \"We regard Ivanka Trump the way we do half-wit Saudi princes. It's in our national interest to flatter them.\"\n\nBiographer and journalist Michael Wolff wrote a book that is based on numerous interviews with members of Donald Trump's circle. In an extract of this book, Wolff claims—but cites no sources—that Trump and her husband have reached a deal that \"[i]f sometime in the future the opportunity arose, she'd be the one to run for president\".\n\nShe has also received criticism on Twitter for acting as Secretary of State after the firing of Rex Tillerson by meeting with the South Korean foreign minister.\n\nIn November 2018, \"The Washington Post\" reported that Trump conducted official government business through her personal email, possibly in violation of federal records rules, which require such communication to be sent within 20 days to a work account for permanent archival. A spokesman for Trump's ethics counsel stated that before she was told of the rules, \"Trump sometimes used her personal account, almost always for logistics and scheduling concerning her family\", and that the emails did not have classified information.\n\nIn July 2016, at the Republican National Convention, Trump said of her political views: \"Like many of my fellow millennials, I do not consider myself categorically Republican or Democrat.\" In 2007, Trump donated $1,000 to the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton. In 2012, Trump endorsed Mitt Romney for president. In 2013, Trump and her husband hosted a fundraiser for Democrat Cory Booker, and the couple bundled more than $40,000 for Booker's U.S. Senate campaign.\n\nTrump says she is an advocate for women and Israel.\n\nTrump has ties to a number of Jewish charities, including Chai Lifeline, a charity which helps to look after children with cancer. Other charities she supports include United Hatzalah, to which her father, Donald Trump, has made six-figure donations in the past.\n\nAfter she was appointed Advisor to the President, Trump donated the unpaid half of the advance payments for her book \"Women Who Work: Rewriting the Rules for Success\" to the National Urban League and the Boys and Girls Clubs of America. She further said that any royalties exceeding the advances will also be given to charity.\n\nIn January 2017, it was announced that Trump and her husband had made arrangements to establish a family home in the Kalorama neighborhood of Washington, DC. Federal filings implied that, in 2017, Trump and her husband may have assets upwards of $740 million.\n\nAccording to her mother, Ivanka Trump speaks French and understands Czech.\n\nSarah Ellison writing for \"Vanity Fair\" in 2018 indicated that Ivanka Trump was the family member whom \"everyone in the family seems to acknowledge\" is Donald Trump's \"favorite\" child. This was previously confirmed by the family members themselves in an interview with Barbara Walters on network television from 2015 where the siblings were gathered together and acknowledged that she was the favorite among the siblings.\n\nDuring college, Trump was in a nearly four-year relationship with Greg Hersch, an investment banker at Salomon Brothers, Bear Stearns, and UBS. From 2001 to 2005, she dated James \"Bingo\" Gubelmann.\n\nIn 2005, she started dating real estate developer Jared Kushner, whom she met through mutual friends. The couple broke up in 2008 due to the objections of Kushner's parents, but they got back together and married in a Jewish ceremony on October 25, 2009. They have three children, a daughter and two sons, born in 2011 and later. In an interview on \"The Dr. Oz Show\", Trump revealed that she had suffered from postpartum depression after each of her pregnancies.\n\nTrump has a close relationship with her father, who has publicly expressed his admiration for her on several occasions. Ivanka has likewise praised her father, complimenting his leadership skills and saying he empowers other people.\n\nTrump was raised as a Presbyterian Christian. She converted to Orthodox Judaism in July 2009, after studying with Elie Weinstock from the Modern Orthodox Ramaz School. Trump took the Hebrew name \"Yael\". She describes her conversion as an \"amazing and beautiful journey\" which her father supported \"from day one\", adding that he has \"tremendous respect\" for the Jewish religion. She attests to keeping a kosher diet and observing the Jewish Sabbath, saying in 2015: \"We're pretty observant... It's been such a great life decision for me... I really find that with Judaism, it creates an amazing blueprint for family connectivity. From Friday to Saturday we don't do anything but hang out with one another. We don't make phone calls.\" When living in New York City, Trump used to send her daughter to kindergarten at a Jewish school. She said: \"It's such a blessing for me to have her come home every night and share with me the Hebrew that she's learned and sing songs for me around the holidays.\"\n\nTrump and her husband made a pilgrimage to the grave of the Lubavitcher Rebbe, a popular prayer site, shortly before her father's election victory. On May 22, 2017, Trump and Kushner also traveled with her father on the first official visit of Israel by the Trump administration, where her father made the first visit to the Western Wall by a sitting U.S. president. Ivanka also visited the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial in western Jerusalem and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in the Christian Quarter of the Old City of Jerusalem during the trip.\n\nIn 2012, The Wharton Club of New York, the official alumni association of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania for the New York metropolitan area, gave Trump the Joseph Wharton Award for Young Leadership, one of their four annual awards for Wharton alumni.\n\n"}
{"id": "47193864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47193864", "title": "Jean Van Milders", "text": "Jean Van Milders\n\nJean Van Milders (13 November 1924 – 20 June 2011) was a Belgian businessman and the president of soccer team AA Gent for ten years.\n\nBorn in Geel, Van Milders was a talented entrepreneur. He managed to develop the Brewery Van Milders situated in Geel, which he had inherited together with his brothers from his parents, to a sound company and he introduced the abbey beer Tongerlo. 1970, The brothers sold their brewery and started bottling Coca-Cola. As from 1976, they were catering Carestel-road restaurants.\n\nVan Milders sometimes proclaimed very strange expressions about his entrepreneurial management. A good one-liner of his was: \"As a child, what did we know about money? Nothing at all! And now, I've got grandchildren playing with their money on the stock markets.\"\n\nAs from July 1988 to 1998, Van Milders was he president of AA Gent. This soccer team was just degraded out of Belgian First Division and the team had a heavy burden. Van Milders used his rich bank account to help the team financially.\n\nIn soccer, this meant a large difference at AA Gent. He transferred some well-known players to the team, making the way of playing more attractive. After a number of years, the team played European games again. In 1992, AA Gent reached the quarter finals of the UEFA Cup. This was the best European result under his guidance. In the Belgian competition, it did not work out so well the next years, but the foundations of the successes were laid. Those were achieved under his successor Ivan De Witte.\n\nVan Milders died in Knokke-Heist.\n"}
{"id": "11205051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11205051", "title": "Jo Bury", "text": "Jo Bury\n\nJo Bury was till 2012, Managing Director of VIB (the Flanders Institute for Biotechnology) and previously held the post of Managing Director of VLAB (Flanders Action Programme in Biotechnology).\n\nJo Bury obtained a Master's degree in Pharmacy and a PhD of Pharmaceutical Sciences at the University of Ghent. He obtained an MBA degree at the Vlerick School for Management in Ghent. After performing scientific research in the field of atherosclerosis during several years, he continued his career in science policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20899941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20899941", "title": "John Black (privateer)", "text": "John Black (privateer)\n\nCaptain John Black (31 October, 1778– c. May 1802), was an English-born ship's officer who had many adventures in his short career. His best remembered adventure concerned the mutiny on in August 1797, a ship that had been sailing with a cargo of soldiers and female convicts to Sydney, Australia. In 1798 his father, the Reverend John Black (1753–1813), a prolific writer of prose and poetry, published his son's letters which gave an account of the mutiny on board the ship, when his son had been put into a small boat and left to find his way to safety with several other members of the crew. The book was dedicated as a \"“small testimony of gratitude to the Portuguese nation”\" for the \"“unequalled hospitality”\" extended to his son and his fellows in the Portuguese colonies that are now part of Brazil.\n\nJohn Black was also privateer (state-sanctioned pirate) for part of his naval career. He was engaged twice on privateers, once as the ship’s captain. That is, during the time of the English-Spanish war of 1795-1801, he was twice engaged on private warships authorized by the English government to attack and rob the enemy’s shipping. During both engagements he was involved in the successful capture of a Spanish vessel.\n\nIn 1798 the 19-year-old sailed into Sydney Harbour, where, after meeting the convict girl Mary Hyde (1779–1864), he made Sydney his base of operations. In between his whaling operations, voyages of exploration, and capturing Spanish vessels, he and Mary had two children. In 1802, in what became his final voyage, the then 23-year-old ship's captain sailed from Sydney to India: to Mumbai (then Bombay) and then onto Kolkata (then Calcutta) before being lost at sea as he sailed for home.\n\nCaptain John Black was born on 31 October 1778 in Great Yarmouth, Norfolk, England, the eldest son of Scottish parents the Reverend John Black (1753–1813) and May Logie (1747-?). His parents moved to Woodbridge, Suffolk the next year, and it is here that he spent his childhood, and where his father, who had been a deacon when he was born, was ordained a priest in 1783.\n\nIn about 1795, at the age of 17 years and looking for adventure, John Black joined the ship the \"Walpole\", an East Indiaman trader. Nothing more is known about his naval career until May 1797.\n\nOn 1 May 1797, John Black wrote to his father that he was at Torbay, Devon, England on board \"Lady Shore\". John Black was the purser and navigating officer, and \"Lady Shore\" was bound for Sydney (then known as Port Jackson) with soldiers for the New South Wales Corps; Lieutenant William Minchin commanding officer of the detachment; a consignment of 69 female convicts; one male convict; and much needed supplies of food and farm implements for the Colony of New South Wales. Black also informed his father that the soldiers were \"“the most disagreeable, mutinous set of villains that ever entered into a ship”\". With good reason: mutinous because an attempt had already been made to seize the ship to avoid it arriving at its destination; and disagreeable villains because two of the Sergeants had already needed to be placed in irons. Many of the soldiers in the detachment being sent to New South Wales were not there from choice, and one of the attempted mutineers had stated that he had been \"“sent on board by force from a police officer”\". The detachment of troops included French and Irish prisoners of war, deserters avoiding the military discipline of a court-martial, and prisoners from the Savoy Palace in London.\n\nA month later on 8 June 1797, when the \"Lady Shore\" was at Falmouth, Cornwall, England, she sailed out into the Atlantic Ocean in company with the West-India Fleet. 10 days later she was withdrawn from that fleet, and \"Lady Shore\" fell in with the 64-gun and the East-India Fleet. The threat of mutiny appeared to be in the past, and the soldiers, being very quiet in general, were allowed the possession of firearms and ammunition.\n\nNow sailing on her own, and eight weeks after \"Lady Shore\" had sailed from Falmouth, the mutiny began. In the early morning on 1 August 1797, when \"Lady Shore\" was about four days sail from Rio de Janeiro the soldiers, and several of the sailors, mutinied. During the fray John Black fired his pistol which took one of the mutineer’s hats off, but was not able to do more damage. The mutineers quickly took over the ship killed Captain Willcocks and the Chief Mate, Lambert. All those not in the mutiny, including the soldiers' officers and some privates, were imprisoned below decks.\n\nTwo weeks later, during the late afternoon of Monday 15 August 1797, John Black and 28 others were released from their imprisonment, put in a longboat with their luggage and some provisions, and cast astern. The others, men, women and children, were: the second and third mates, the steward, the cabin boy, the commanding officer of the company of soldiers on board and his wife, five other officers, two privates, four wives, three children, one male passenger with his wife and two children, three female convicts, and the only male convict Major James George Semple Lisle. For provisions they were given \"\"three small casks of water, containing about ninety gallons, four bags of bread and three pieces of salt beef”\" and managed to smuggle aboard \"“two hams, two cheeses, and a small keg containing about four gallons of rum”\", and for navigation a quadrant, and a small pocket compass. The \"Lady Shore\" mutineers (soldiers and sailors) then sailed away with the ship’s surgeon, and 66 female convicts. The 29 castaways in the longboat hoisted sail and headed for Rio Grande, Brazil, the nearest settlement on the Portuguese coast of South America, about 300 miles away.\n\nNearly exactly two days later, on 17 August 1797, after being battered by heavy seas, drenching rain, and contrary seas, they finally, with the assistance of a boat of people who had seen them from the shore, made landfall near to Rio Grande, Brazil. It was a \"“miraculous escape”\" as the locals could not believe that a boat could have survived in such weather. The castaways were hospitably received by the locals, and the Governor of Port St. Pedro promised them a passage to Rio de Janeiro by the first available ship.\n\nAfter a frustrating wait of seven weeks, many false starts, and the loss of all his luggage and journals, Black decided to travel north overland to Rio de Janeiro. It was arranged for him to instead travel north overland to the Portuguese settlement on the island of St. Catharine (the island on which modern day Florianópolis is situated), and catch a ship from there. He left by horseback on 4 October 1797 with Major J.G. Semple Lisle, the male convict who had proved himself trustworthy back in Torbay when he had reported the first attempted mutiny. Also on the journey, and provided by the Portuguese, were: two servants; two Portuguese dragoons as guides, and an Indian to take care of the baggage horse. It was not an arduous journey with many stops to rest, eat and be feted by the local population along the way.\n\nOn 16 October 1797, after travelling overland by horse about , Black and Major Semple caught a whaleboat to St Catharine’s, where they found part of the Portuguese Squadron of ships anchored. They were well entertained during their stay, and left the island for Rio de Janeiro three and a half weeks later on 9 November 1797 in separate ships. Semple was on the Portuguese Admiral Antonia Januario’s ship, and Black was on board a Portuguese warship commanded by the English Captain Thompson. It was to take 10 days for the ships to sail north the north to Rio de Janeiro, and they arrived on 19 November 1797.\n\nBefore travelling north to Rio de Janeiro, Black had learnt that \"Lady Shore\" had arrived in the enemy Spanish port of Montevideo, Uruguay about south of Rio Grande. The men had been jailed, and the female convicts placed in different homes throughout the town. He later learnt that only the pretty girls were in the homes, and the rest of the women had been imprisoned. \"Lady Shore\" was sold in Montevideo for forty thousand dollars. What happened to the seventy soldiers (the mutineers of the New South Wales Corps), or what happened to the remainder of the sixty six, not so pretty, female convicts who were not taken into homes of the amorous Spanish is not known.\n\nAs the convey of English ships in the port of Rio Janeiro would not reach England before eight months, and sick at the thought of being idle for so long a time, Black instead decided to join as navigator Captain William Wilkinson’s ship \"Indispensable\", a ship with 14 guns and a crew of 32, that was being used as a privateer, but could also be used as a whaler. Black on the \"Indispensable\" was under sail two months after arriving in Rio de Janeiro. The \"Indispensable\" sailed down the coast of South America from Rio Janeiro on 20 January 1798. Looking for adventure and riches, they were hoping to capture a Spanish ship and take it over to the Cape of Good Hope.\n\nWriting to his father from the Cape of Good Hope on 15 April 1798 John Black disclosed that he had just arrived at the Cape after captaining the 10 gun Spanish vessel the \"La Union\" from Málaga in Spain, which Captain William Wilkinson of \"Indispensable\" and his crew (including Black) had captured. The Spanish ship had been on a voyage from the Plata River (Buenos Aires) in Argentina to Lima in Peru, and had been captured on 19 February 1798, one month after Black had sailed from Rio de Janeiro. He also mentions Cape Horn in his account, but does not specify when he may have been near there.\n\nOver the next two months the cargo of the captured \"La Union\" was sold, and the ship disposed of. Among the cargo was tallow, candles, and dried beef, sought after commodities in the port. 19 year old Black invested his share of the windfall in cargo to be sold in Sydney, and wrote to his father on 7 June 1798 \"“I have laid in a considerable investment for Port Jackson”\" (Sydney)\"”, which I hope to turn to good account, and I expect to sail to-morrow night.”\"\n\nIt would have been easy for Captain Wilkinson of \"Indispensable\" to convince Black to invest in a trip to the port of Sydney. \"Indispensable\" had previously visited Sydney twice before: in May 1794 departing for Bengal in July 1794, and then in April 1796 when Wilkinson delivered 131 female convicts. On the second trip \"Indispensable\" had lingered in the port until 21 September 1796, giving Captain Wilkinson an insight as to the type of cargo that would raise the most money in Port Jackson.\n\nWith the strong westerlies along the southern coast of Australia it would have taken about 2 months for \"Indispensable\" to sail from the Cape of Good Hope to Sydney, and it should have arrived in early August 1798. It was a stormy passage across the Indian Ocean and then around the south of Van Diemens Land, when the ship lost two boats and one man overboard. The same storm stove in two boats and carried away several spars. On 8 September 1798, after he had been in port long enough to assess the situation, Black wrote to his father:\n\"I am still amongst the living. By my last letter I informed you of having laid in an investment at the Cape for this place\" (Sydney) \". The market is very bad. The \"Barwell\" brought a large cargo from England, a vessel from Bengal and an American vessel with cargo of tabasco and spirits. These vessels have drained the place of all cash…Wheat, corn, beans, cabbages and fruit trees flourish, the cattle are of an uncommon size, and very fierce. An old horse, which in England would be valued at five pounds for dog's meat, sells here for 100 guineas.\"\n\nBlack went on to say that he chased a flock of black swans down the river, but as they were shy never got a shot at them. He mentioned that the Governor (John Hunter) was a pleasant, sensible old man. John Black also informed his father of the doubtful monetary dealings in the Colony; and described the agricultural and natural aspects of the country. He also described the harbour as \"one of the best in the known world\", and that he expected in a fortnight to sail on a cruise for two months to fish (catch whales). This was the first time that Black was to go whaling, the most dangerous and masculine of sea trades.\n\nWhat he didn’t mention in his letter was that he had met a girl, and made her pregnant, but then it is highly possible that he didn't yet know that he was to become a father. In August 1798, when they were both 19 years old, John Black met Mary Hyde, a convict girl and who the month before had arrived in Sydney on board the \"Britannia II\". Mary came under John’s \"protection\" and fell pregnant almost immediately.\n\nJohn Black, however, wasn’t long in port. As planned, in late September 1798 his boat the \"Indispensable\" left to do some \"fishing\" (whaling). Governor John Hunter wrote on 25 September 1798 that some of the whalers that were in the harbour (including the \"Britannia II\" on which Mary Hyde had arrived) had proceeding on their fishing, and the town had been freed from the nuisance of the seamen who could not resist the two temptations of spirits and women. The ship di dn’t return until 27 October 1798, and left again \"immediately\" on a second \"fishing\" trip, not returning again until 29 December 1798. \"Indispensable\" returned from this second trip with 54 tons of sperm whale oil from whaling within a range of above and below Sydney, and within of the coast. \"Indispensable\" then needed a refit, and John Black needed to stay in port for a considerable time.\n\nIn March 1799 Governor Hunter granted a lease of land to \"“Mr. John Black, late purser of the \"Lady Shore\" transport”\". This allotment is shown on surveyor James Meehan’s map of Sydney on the eastern side of George Street, between Hunter Street and Martin Place, where De Mestre Place is today. This land was later held in trust by for John Black’s two children, and became the land on which Black’s son-in-law Prosper de Mestre resided and ran his business from.\n\nFrom then on, while John Black sailed in and out of Sydney, Mary Hyde resided on this allotment backing onto the Tank Stream. Black's family was fending for itself whilst John was often away for months at a time, or even longer, either whaling or otherwise working his trade as a ship's officer.\n\nOn 31 May 1799 John Henry Black, son of John Black and Mary Hyde, was born at home. Fortunately John was home at the time to see his new-born son. But three days later he sailed again.\n\nIt was reported that \"Indispensable\" sailed for \"fishing\" about 3 June 1799. David Collins wrote \"“About this time the \"Indispensable\" sailed on her fishing voyage. This ship had been careened and completely repaired in the Cove.”\" There is no record of her return to port, but it had to have been before the baptism of Black's son on 2 September 1799. It was not long after that Black again left his family and sailed back to Cape Town from Sydney in what was then regarded as the shortest passage (time-wise). It was a long tedious voyage up the east coast of Australia, above New Guinea, and through the islands of Indonesia using the more favourable winds of the south-east monsoon (as compared to the adverse strong westerlies along the southern coast of Australia) before sailing upwind or beating across the Indian Ocean down to Cape Town.\n\nAfter arriving in Cape Town some months later, John Black became engaged in adventure that continued to keep him away from his family. The Englishman was engaged for the first time as a Captain on the privateer \"Chance\" owned by Michael Hogan. As Spain was then at war with England Black was engaged to sail from Cape Town seeking Spanish ships. His mission was successful as on 8 July 1800 a Spanish Brig of 70 tons arrived in Cape Town carrying prize colours.\n\nAfter taking his share of the spoils from the sale of the Spanish brig and its cargo, Black took command of the brig \"Harbinger\" also owned by Michael Hogan. Carrying a cargo of 2,800 gallons of spirits and 3,000 gallons of wine, in November 1800 Black began to sail back to Sydney, and his family.\n\nAs an aside, in 1800 it was recorded that \"‘’Mary Hide\"(sic) \"and her son were off the’’\" (government) \"‘’stores’’\". This was because Mary \"\"living on the lease of Mr. Black; and owing 7 sheep, 4 pigs and 3 goats’’\" had been able to meet a level of self-sufficiency, something the government greatly encouraged in an effort to cut costs.\n\nHeading east across the Indian Ocean for Sydney, with instructions to take the short cut through the newly discovered Bass Strait (which separated Australia from Tasmania), he followed in the wake of the brig , the first ship to sail eastward through the new-found Bass Strait. \"Harbinger\" embarked on an investigation of the strait tracking around Cape Otway, Cape Danger and Cape Patten down to the northern part of King Island, and around Wilsons Promontory. Black had sheltered near two small islands which he named the New Year Isles, and then sailed on and named the larger island King Island after Governor Philip Gidley King. He also named the Harbinger Rocks, and the Hogan Group of islands. A chart drawn later by Governor King shows John Black's course through Bass Strait. Governor King's report on the voyage reads: \"A small brig from the Cape of Good Hope, commanded by Mr. Black (a person of good abilities as a surveyor and navigator) passed thro and keeping more to the Southward made Cape Albany Otway and standing to the southward made an island lying in the centre of the west entrance of the strait which he named King Island and afterwards passed thro the centre of the strait unadvisable to attempt from the east only from the west.\" A copy of Black's writing on the passage through Bass Strait in \"Harbinger\" was sent to England with Governor King's letter.\n\nBlack arrived back in Sydney on 11 January 1801 after having been away for 14 months, at which time his partner Mary Hyde promptly became pregnant with their second child. This was the beginning of his longest time in port and with his family, and lasted nearly 12 months.\n\nBlack discharged his cargo of rum and wines in Sydney into the warehouse that the businessman Simeon Lord had built specifically for this purpose. (Coincidentally Simeon Lord was later to be the step-father to Black’s children.) In selling his cargo Black had entered Sydney’s liquor trade, and established a shop on his leased land. It was reported \"Simeon Lord sells rum at 32/- a gallon, Capt. Cox ditto, Black his gin at 10 gns”\"(guineas) \"“a case, etc. these are Governor King’s regulations for the benefit of the Colony while American ships who would be glad to sell their liquor at 5/-, 6/- or 7/- per G.”\"(gallon) \"“are turned away! Why!\"\n\nBlack also negotiated with Governor King to sell \"Harbinger\" to the Governor on behalf of its owner. On 1 May 1801 the Governor wrote to the Duke of Portland, stressing the old age of vessels used by the Government and the need for replacements. \"“The Master of the brig Harbinger, recently arrived from the Cape, has offered her for sale. As a vessel is needed to go between Norfolk Island to carry supplies and bring salt port from thence, I directed a survey to be taken of that vessel, also an inventory of her masts, rigging and furniture. The sum demanded by the owner was 1500 pounds and the offer I made him was 700 pounds, though much less than her real value.”\" Because of money shortage in Sydney, there was no other bidder for \"Harbinger\", so Black was compelled to accept the Governor's 700 pounds.\n\nThe documents relating to \"Harbinger\"s sale were signed by John Black in June 1801 where he described himself as a resident of Sydney, and receipted by him on 3 August 1801.\n\nOn 7 September 1801 Governor Philip Gidley King granted Mary Hyde an Absolute Pardon 18 months before her sentence would have expired. From the wording of the pardon, it would appear that John Black used his credit with the Governor King to obtain this Absolute Pardon for his partner.\n\nJohn Black's and Mary Hyde's second child, Mary Ann Black, was born on 1 October 1801.\n\nIt was on 1 January 1802 that 23-year-old John Black next left Sydney. His partner Mary Hyde was left at home as the sole parent of two children under the age of three, and one only 3 months old. John Black was employed as Captain of the Campbells & Co. brig \"Fly\" sailing for Mumbai (then Bombay) and then Kolkata (then Calcutta) to pick up goods from India for the Sydney warehouses of Robert Campbell. Black managed to make the voyage up the east coast of Australia, above New Guinea, through the islands of Indonesia, and across to Mumbai and then Kolkata in very good time. In April 1802 the \"Fly\" departed Kolkata for the return voyage to Sydney. \"Fly\" left the pilot on 14 May 1802 to continue sailing south across the Indian Ocean, along the bottom of Australia, through the Bass Strait above Tasmania, and then up the east coast to Sydney, or so was the plan. However, sometime after 14 May 1802 the ship was lost at sea with all hands, if not on its passage across the Indian Ocean then somewhere in the stormy and ice-berg strewn ocean below southern Australia.\n\nNews did not reach Sydney until nearly 12 months later that Black's ship was missing. News of the probable loss of \"Fly\" was reported by Captain Allan M'Askell of \"Castle of Good Hope\" when it arrived in Sydney in February 1803 to find that \"Fly\" had never arrived. The Ship News in the \"Sydney Gazette & New South Wales Advertiser\" of 5 March 1803 reported the loss \"we have been informed of the more than probable loss of the Fly, a vessel of about 100 tons burthen, laden with piece and other valuable goods, also bound for this place\" (Sydney)\"\", and belonging to the House of Campbells, at Calcutta\" (Kolkata) \". She left Calcutta in the month of April last\"\" (1802) \", and has not since been heard of; was commanded by Mr. John Black, a young man much esteemed here by all who knew him.\"\n\nBlack's death was not publicly confirmed until April 1804 when the Ship News in the \"Sydney Gazette & New South Wales Advertiser\" of 15 April 1804 reported: \"“The brig \"Fly\", Captain Black, that sailed from Calcutta for this colony in April 1802 has never been heard of.”\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3534785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3534785", "title": "Juan Gallardo", "text": "Juan Gallardo\n\nJuan Gallardo Thurlow (born c. 1948) is a Mexican businessman. Chairman of Grupo Embotelladoras Unidas (bottling); Chairman of Mexico Fund Inc. (mutual fund); and Vice Chairman of Home Mart de México (retail trade). Former Chairman and CEO of Grupo Azucarero México (sugar mills). Other directorships: Caterpillar Inc.; NADRO, Grupo México (mining) and Lafarge (construction). Gallardo has been a director of Caterpillar since 1998. His worth is estimated in USD 1.4 billion.\n"}
{"id": "51441629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51441629", "title": "Kenya Ordnance Factories Corporation", "text": "Kenya Ordnance Factories Corporation\n\nKenya Ordnance Factories Corporation (KOFC) is a state-owned defense corporation, the only ammunition manufacturer in Kenya, which is headquartered in Kitale Road 20 km from Eldoret, Kenya.\n"}
{"id": "382566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382566", "title": "Ladenschlussgesetz", "text": "Ladenschlussgesetz\n\nIn the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ladenschlussgesetz or \"Shop Closing Law\" (abbreviated: LadSchlG) is the federal law regulating at which times retail stores were forced to be closed to the public. The \"Ladenschlussgesetz\" in its current form was first enacted on 28 November 1956 following pressure from Germany's trade unions; in its last revision (of 2 June 2003), points of sale \"(Verkaufsstellen)\" must be closed at any of the following times:\n\n\nThe law provides differing regulations for pharmacies, petrol stations, shops at train stations and airports, etc. \n\nOn 30 June 2006, as part of the \"Föderalismusreform\" (\"Federalism Reform\"), the regulatory responsibility for this area was devolved to the German states. The net effect, although the Federal law technically remains in force, the states are free to determine the opening hours of retail stores in their areas. Meanwhile, all states - with the exception of the more conservative Bavaria - made use of that option.\n\nThe states have each adopted individual regulations concerning opening hours on Sundays and public holidays. Some continue to observe the existing Federal rules, while others have liberalized them somewhat, although the general Federal ban concerning opening on Sundays and holidays remains in effect, owing to a provision in the German constitution recognizing Sunday as a day of rest and a corresponding decision of the Federal Constitutional Court \"(Bundesverfassungsgericht)\" on 9 June 2004.\n\n\"(Shops may be open as desired at any hour (day or night) Monday through Saturday)\"\n\n\n\"(Shops may be open as desired at any hour (day or night) Monday through Friday, with restrictions on Saturday opening hours)\"\n\n\"Shops may be open until 10 pm on Saturdays.\"\n\n\"Shops may be open until 8 pm on Saturdays; rules for Sundays and holidays follow the existing Federal law.\"\n\n\"Shops may be open Monday through Saturday from 6 am to 10 pm each day.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "330264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330264", "title": "Lamar Hunt", "text": "Lamar Hunt\n\nLamar Hunt (August 2, 1932 – December 13, 2006) was an American businessman notable for his promotion of American football, soccer, basketball, tennis and ice hockey in the United States and for his efforts in conjunction with his brothers, William Herbert Hunt and Nelson Bunker Hunt, to corner the silver market in the late 1970s and early 1980s. \n\nHe was the principal founder of the American Football League (AFL) and Major League Soccer (MLS), as well as MLS's predecessor, the North American Soccer League (NASL), and co-founder of World Championship Tennis. He was also the founder and owner of the Kansas City Chiefs of the National Football League (NFL), the Kansas City Wizards of MLS, and at the time of his death owned two other MLS teams, Columbus Crew and FC Dallas. In Kansas City, Hunt also helped establish the Worlds of Fun and Oceans of Fun theme parks.\n\nThe oldest ongoing national soccer tournament in the United States, the U.S. Open Cup (founded 1914), now bears his name in honor of his pioneering role in that sport stateside. He was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1972; into the National Soccer Hall of Fame in 1982; and into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1993. The National Soccer Hall of Fame bestowed upon Hunt their Medal of Honor in 1999, an award given to only three recipients in history thus far. He was married for 42 years to his second wife Norma, and had four children, Sharron, Lamar Jr., Daniel, and Clark Hunt.\n\nHunt was born in El Dorado, Arkansas, the son of oil tycoon H. L. Hunt and younger brother of tycoons Nelson Bunker Hunt and William Herbert Hunt. Lamar was raised in Dallas, Texas. He attended Culver Military Academy and graduated from The Hill School in Pennsylvania in 1951 and Southern Methodist University in Dallas in 1956, with a B.S. degree in geology. Hunt was a college football player who rode the bench but was still an avid sports enthusiast during his time in college and throughout his entire childhood. While attending SMU in 1952, Hunt joined the Kappa Sigma fraternity. In 1972, he was selected as Kappa Sigma's Man of the Year.\n\nOn the strength of his great inherited oil wealth, Hunt applied for a National Football League expansion franchise but was turned down. In 1959, professional football was a distant second to Major League Baseball in popularity, and the thinking among NFL executives was that the league must be careful not to \"oversaturate\" the market by expanding too quickly. Hunt also attempted to purchase the NFL's Chicago Cardinals franchise in 1959 with the intent to move them to Dallas, but was again turned down.\n\nIn response, Hunt approached several other businessmen who had also unsuccessfully sought NFL franchises, including fellow Texan and oil man K. S. \"Bud\" Adams of Houston, about forming a new football league, and the American Football League was established in August 1959. The group of the eight founders of the AFL teams was referred to as the \"Foolish Club.\" Hunt's goal was to bring professional football to Texas and to acquire an NFL team for the Hunt family. Hunt became owner of the Dallas Texans and hired future hall-of-famer Hank Stram as the team's first head coach.\n\nAs a response to the newly formed league and the presence of an AFL franchise in Dallas, the NFL quickly placed a new franchise of their own in Dallas, the Dallas Cowboys. As a result, the Dallas Texans, despite being one of the more successful AFL teams in the league's early days, failed to draw fans in large numbers, as the Texans had to compete with the Dallas Cowboys for fans. In one popular, though probably apocryphal, story, a reporter informed Hunt's father that the Texans had lost $1 million in their first season. In response, H.L. Hunt supposedly said, \"At that rate, he can only last another 100 years.\" Lamar himself later said that the numbers mentioned in the story were \"overly flattering.\" In 1963 Hunt began to consider moving the team. Kansas City became one of the contending cities for the franchise. In order to convince Hunt to move the team to Kansas City, mayor H. Roe Bartle promised Hunt home attendance of 25,000 people per game. Hunt finally agreed to move the team to Kansas City, and in 1963 the Dallas Texans became the Kansas City Chiefs.\n\nIn the Chiefs' first two seasons attendance did not match the levels Mayor Bartle had promised, but in 1966 average home attendance at Chiefs games increased and reached 37,000. By 1969 Chiefs' average home attendance had reached 51,000. In 1966 the Chiefs won their first AFL Championship (after having previously won it as the Dallas Texans) and reached the first ever Super Bowl, which the Chiefs lost to the Green Bay Packers. The Chiefs remained successful through the 1960s, and in 1970 the Chiefs won the AFL Championship and Super Bowl IV (the last Super Bowl played when the AFL was a separate league prior to it being absorbed into the NFL as the American Football Conference) over the heavily favored Minnesota Vikings.\n\nHunt insisted that he be listed in the team media guide as the \"founder\" of the Chiefs rather than the \"owner\". He publicly listed his telephone number in the phone book until his death.\n\nIn 1966, the NFL and AFL agreed to merge, with a championship game between the two leagues to be played after that season. In a July 25, 1966, letter to NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle, Hunt wrote, \"I have kiddingly called it the 'Super Bowl,' which obviously can be improved upon.\" Hunt would later say the name was likely in his head because his children had been playing with a Super Ball toy. Although the leagues' owners decided on the name \"AFL-NFL Championship Game\", the media immediately picked up on Hunt's \"Super Bowl\" name, which would become official beginning with the third annual game, which was won by the AFL's New York Jets over the NFL's Baltimore Colts.\n\nIn 1967 Hunt helped promote professional soccer in the United States. Hunt's interest in soccer began in 1962 when he accompanied his future wife, Norma, to a Shamrock Rovers game in Dublin, Ireland. In 1966, he viewed the FIFA World Cup in England, and then attended nine of the next 11 World Cup tournaments.\n\nIn 1967, Hunt founded the Dallas Tornado as members of the United Soccer Association. In 1968 the league merged with the National Professional Soccer League to form the North American Soccer League. Hunt was an active advocate for the sport and the league and the Dallas Tornado won the NASL championship in 1971 and were runners-up 1973.\n\nThe NFL owners were not happy with Hunt's ownership in and promotion of pro soccer. The NFL attempted to force legal requirements that would disallow team ownership in more than one sport for owners of NFL franchises. This strategy backfired on the NFL, and the NASL won an anti-trust case against the NFL. A primary benefactor of this outcome was Lamar Hunt.\n\nIn 1981, after 15 seasons and losses in the millions, Hunt and his Dallas Tornado partner Bill McNutt decided to merge their team with the Tampa Bay Rowdies franchise, while retaining a minority stake in the Florida club. Two years later, along with Rowdies principal George Strawbrige, they sold the Rowdies to local investors. The move effectively ended Hunt's ties to the NASL a year before the league itself finally collapsed.\n\nHunt returned to soccer as one of the original founding investors of Major League Soccer, which debuted in 1996. He originally owned two teams: the Columbus Crew and the Kansas City Wizards (now Sporting Kansas City). In 1999, Hunt financed the construction of the venue now known as Mapfre Stadium, the second, and first since 1913, of several large soccer-specific stadiums in the USA. In 2003, Hunt purchased a third team, the Dallas Burn (now FC Dallas), after announcing that he would partially finance the construction of their own soccer-specific stadium. On 31 August 2006, Hunt sold the Wizards to a six-man ownership group led by Cerner Corporation co-founders Neal Patterson and Cliff Illig.\n\nHunt was one of the founding investors of the Chicago Bulls of the National Basketball Association. He remained a minority owner until his death.\n\nIn 1968, Hunt co-founded the World Championship Tennis circuit, which gave birth to the Open Era of tennis. He was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1993.\n\nHunt and John H. McConnell formed Columbus Hockey Limited, L.L.C. (CHL) in an effort to obtain a National Hockey League franchise for Columbus, Ohio. Following disagreements over the financing for an arena, McConnell accepted an offer to lease a new arena from Nationwide Insurance Enterprise. McConnell froze out CHL and Hunt and was awarded the NHL Columbus Blue Jackets franchise. See \"McConnell v. Hunt Sports Enterprises\", 132 Ohio App.3d 657, 725 N.E.2d 1193 (1999), a lawsuit that Lamar Hunt lost and thus granted McConnel sole ownership of the Columbus Blue Jackets.\n\nHunt was the founder of two theme parks in Kansas City: Worlds of Fun and Oceans of Fun, which opened in 1973 and 1982 respectively. The two parks were an outgrowth and adjoined a vast industrial park he developed in the bluffs above the Missouri River in Clay County, Missouri.\n\nImmediately south of the Hunt-founded parks is the Hunt-developed SubTropolis, a 55,000,000 square foot (5,060,000 m), manmade limestone cave which is claimed to be the \"World's Largest Underground Business Complex (TM).\" Hunt's extensive business dealings in Clay County were to contribute to the Chiefs having their NFL Training Camp at William Jewell College in Liberty, Missouri until 1991.\n\nDuring the 1970s and early 1980s, Hunt and his brothers Nelson Bunker Hunt and William Herbert Hunt attempted to corner the silver market. They began buying silver in the early 1970s. By the end of 1979 their ownership of one-third of the silver market caused the price to rise from $11 an ounce in September 1979 to $50 an ounce in January 1980. In the last nine months of 1979, the brothers profited by an estimated $2 billion to $4 billion. However, on March 27, 1980, subsequently referred to within the precious-metals industry as Silver Thursday, the price collapsed. In September 1988, the Hunt brothers filed for bankruptcy under United States Bankruptcy Code Chapter 11.\n\nLamar Hunt had two brothers, Nelson Bunker and William Herbert. He was married twice. His first marriage to Rosemary Carr, ended in a divorce. He had two children from his first marriage. He remarried later to Norma Lynn Knobel, who he was married to until his death. He had three sons, Clark, Lamar Jr., and Daniel, as well as one daughter, Sharron Hunt.\n\nLamar Hunt died December 13, 2006, at Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas of complications related to prostate cancer. Upon his death, Cowboys owner Jerry Jones called Hunt \"a founder of the NFL as we know it today,\" adding \"He's been an inspiration for me.\" Said Dan Rooney, chairman of the Pittsburgh Steelers: \"Lamar Hunt was one of the most influential owners in professional football over the past 40-plus years, He was instrumental in the formation of the American Football League and in the AFL-NFL merger, which helped the National Football League grow into America's passion.\" The Mayor of Kansas City, Missouri, Kay Waldo Barnes, requested that all city flags fly at half-staff the following Thursday and Friday after Hunt's death.\n\nUpon Hunt's death, his son Clark was named chairman of the Kansas City Chiefs and FC Dallas, having been elected by Hunt's other children, Lamar Hunt Jr., Sharron Munson, and Daniel Hunt. Though Hunt's wife and children share legal ownership of the Chiefs, Clark represents the team at all league owner meetings and handles the day-to-day responsibilities of the team.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7505308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7505308", "title": "Lillian Bostwick Phipps", "text": "Lillian Bostwick Phipps\n\nLillian Stokes Bostwick Phipps (July 9, 1906 – November 27, 1987) was an American socialite and owner of Thoroughbred steeplechase racehorses.\n\nLillian Stokes Bostwick was born in New York City, the daughter of Mary Stokes and Albert Carlton Bostwick (1876-1911), her wealthy grandfather, Jabez A. Bostwick (1830–1892), was one of John D. Rockefeller's founding partners in the Standard Oil Company.\n\nLillian Bostwick was raised in a Fifth Avenue mansion in New York City and as a young woman was listed in the 1930 New York Social Blue Book. Her father was a horseman and polo player whose influence on her and brothers George Herbert Bostwick, Dunbar and Albert Jr. led to them becoming involved with the sport of horse racing. In 1942, her only sister, Dorothy (1899-2001), became the first American woman to hold a helicopter pilot's license.\n\nIn the 1930s, Lillian Bostwick and brothers Pete and Dunbar built and operated Bostwick Field in Old Westbury, New York where they hosted international polo matches.\n\nWhile her husband successfully invested in Thoroughbred horses for flat racing, Lillian Bostwick Phipps purchased and raced a number of steeplechase racers. She owned Neji and Oedipus, two very prominent horses that were voted American Steepchase Champions five times in all, and who were both inducted into the U.S. Racing Hall of Fame. Mrs. Phipps won the American Grand National eight times with Oedipus (1951), Neji (1955, 1957, 1958), Mako (1965), Top Bid (1973), Straight and True (1976), and Le Ronceray (1987).\n\nIn 1928, Lillian married Robert V. McKim of Aiken, South Carolina, at the Church of the Transfiguration. Before their divorce in September 1937, the couple had three daughters:\n\n\nIn November 1937, she wed Court tennis champion and Thoroughbred breeder/owner Ogden Phipps (1908-2002), a member of the prominent Phipps family and nephew of Ogden L. Mills, the former United States Secretary of the Treasury, at St. Bartholomew's Church. Ogden and Lillian had two more children:\n\n\nPhipps and her husband maintained residences in New York City, Saratoga Springs, Florida and at Summerville, South Carolina where she died in 1987. Lillian was buried in the Bostwick Mausoleum, in Woodlawn Cemetery, Bronx, New York. \n\nA community benefactor, Lillian Bostwick Phipps served on the Board of Directors of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, the Metropolitan Opera Association, and the Saratoga Performing Arts Center of which she was also its Chairperson.\n\nHer interior design team of Robert Denning & Vincent Fourcade from the inception of their firm in 1960 had been involved with acquisitions and style in all of their fifteen homes and she has been credited with playing a significant role in launching the team.\n\n"}
{"id": "18538275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18538275", "title": "List of Brazilian entrepreneurs", "text": "List of Brazilian entrepreneurs\n\nThis is a list of Brazilian entrepreneurs, businesspeople of Brazilian nationality or with Brazilian citizenship.\n"}
{"id": "223968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223968", "title": "London Metal Exchange", "text": "London Metal Exchange\n\nThe London Metal Exchange (LME) is the futures exchange with the world's largest market in options and futures contracts on base and other metals. As the LME offers contracts with daily expiry dates of up to three months from trade date, weekly contracts to six months, and monthly contracts up to 123 months, it also allows for cash trading. It offers hedging, worldwide reference pricing, and the option of physical delivery to settle contracts. Since 2012 it has been owned by Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, after LME's shareholders voted in July 2012 to approve the sale of the exchange for a price of £1.4 billion.\n\nThe London Metal Market and Exchange Company was founded in 1877, but the market traces its origins back to 1571 and the opening of the Royal Exchange, London. Before the exchange was created, business was conducted by traders in London coffee houses using a makeshift ring drawn in chalk on the floor.\n\nAt first only copper was traded. Lead and zinc were soon added but only gained official trading status in 1920. The exchange was closed during World War II and did not re-open until 1954. The range of metals traded was extended to include aluminium (1978), nickel (1979), tin (1989), aluminium alloy (1992), steel (2008), and minor metals cobalt and molybdenum (2010). The exchange ceased trading plastics in 2011. The total value of the trade is around $US 11.6 trillion annually.\n\nMany deals are made for commodities to be delivered in three months' time. The custom stems from the time that copper cargoes originally took in 1877 on their voyage from the ports of Chile.\n\nThe LME was owned by its members until 2012, when it was sold to Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing for £1.4 billion.\n\nThe LME offers futures and options contracts for aluminium, aluminium alloy, NASAAC (North American Special Aluminium Alloy), cobalt, copper, lead, molybdenum, nickel, steel billet, steel rebar, steel scrap, tin and zinc.\n\nTo trade contracts in copper, tin, or any other metal listed on the LME, one has to trade through an LME member. Purchasers of contracts, which are then left to reach maturity, will receive a warrant for a specific LME approved warehouse to take delivery of the metal if required.\n\nThe LME issues, each day, detailed figures on how many tonnes of each metal is in its warehouses, which helps producers and consumers make correct business decisions.\n\nTrading Times: 11:40 — 17:00, London Time\n\nOpen-outcry is the oldest way of trading on the exchange, though nowadays the majority of trades are placed electronically. It is central to the process of price discovery, the way LME official prices are established. Prices are derived from the most liquid periods of trading; the short open-outcry ring trading sessions, and are most representative of industry supply and demand. The official settlement price, on which contracts are settled, is determined by the last offer price before the bell is sounded to mark the end of the official ring.\n\nThere is constant inter-office trading. A relatively small yet important portion of trading is still done by open-outcry in the Ring. There are a morning and an afternoon trade, where each of the nine metal contracts are traded in two blocks with a five-minute session for each contract (the sessions last from 11.40 until 13.10 and from 14.55 until 16.15, each session includes a 10-minute break). The second trading block in the morning is key to setting the Daily Official Exchange rates. After the official trades of sessions one and two, there are 85 and 45 minutes of \"kerb\" trading respectively. Trades are in futures, options and TAPOs (traded average-price options, a form of Asian options).\n\nWhilst the price discovery mechanism used by the exchange is post-trade transparent it is not pre-trade transparent. Pre-trade transparency is required for many securities under the Market in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFiD) to achieve fair markets by reducing such illegal abuse as market manipulation.\n\nThe LME is the last exchange in Europe where open-outcry trading takes place.\n\nRing Dealing Members are entitled to trade in the Ring during the ring-trading sessions. They may also operate a 24-hour market by trading inter-office. All Ring Dealing Members, as members of the LME Clear, are authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, and are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. \n\nRing Dealing Members are Clearing Members, who hold the exclusive right to trade in the ring;\n\nIn addition to the 9 companies that have exclusive rights to trade in the Ring, around 100 companies are involved in the LME in total.\n\nContrary to popular belief, the precious metals, gold and silver, are not traded on the London Metal Exchange, but on the over-the-counter market usually referred to as the London Bullion Market, by the members of the London Bullion Market Association. Platinum and palladium are traded on the London Platinum and Palladium Market. Both members of the LBMA and LPPM trade the precious metals spot market on EBS (Electronic Broking Systems)—acquired by ICAP in June 2006. Many companies involved in minor metals are members of the Minor Metal Trade Association.\n\nThe LME used, however, to provide trade matching and clearing services to the London bullion market and distributes gold, silver, and gold IRS (interest rate swaps) forward rates on behalf of the LBMA.\n\nThe LME launched an electronic platform called LME Select launched in February 2001.[5] This was developed by a Swedish software house called Cinnober. The platform is a FIX-based trading platform, and now handles a majority of the total LME business.\n\nAs a market of “last resort”, industry can use the LME’s delivery option to sell excess stock in times of oversupply and as a source of material in times of extreme shortage. In reality, physical delivery occurs in a very small percentage of cases on the LME as most organizations use the LME for hedging purposes. The small percentage which does result in delivery, however, plays a vital role in creating price convergence.\n\nTo support this mechanism, the LME approves and licenses a network of warehouses and storage facilities around the world. Controversy arose in 2013 because the LME took action to limit the use of its warehouses for the hoarding of aluminium. In March 2014, England's High Court found for Rusal, the Russian aluminium company, striking down these rules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11724160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11724160", "title": "Margin (economics)", "text": "Margin (economics)\n\nIn economics, a margin is a set of constraints conceptualised as a \"border\". A \"marginal change\" is the change associated with a relaxation or tightening of constraints — either change \"of\" the constraints, or a change \"in response to\" this change of the constraints.\n\n"}
{"id": "26028869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26028869", "title": "Minos Kyriakou", "text": "Minos Kyriakou\n\nMinos Xenophon \"Minas\" Kyriakou (, ; 31 May 1942 – 2 July 2017) was a Greek media and shipping magnate and businessman. He was the president of the Hellenic Olympic Committee and was the President of the International Olympic Academy (IOA, 2004-2009). He was elected to the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) council in August 2003.\n\nMinos Kyriakou is the son of Xenophon Kyriacou and Athina Revidies. He was educated in France, Switzerland and at Columbia University in the US, from where he has a bachelor's degree.\n\nKyriakou was the founder and owner of ANT1 Group, a media company which owns most notably ANT1, one of the oldest and one of the first private television channels in Greece.\n\nHe also owned the Greek multi-sports club Panellinios GS, and the Greek Basket League club Panellinios.\n\nKyriakou's links to the sporting world saw him later become president of the Greek Olympic Committee after Athens hosted the Olympic Games of 2004. He continued as president before stepping down in 2009. \n\nKyriakou owned four acres of land in Athens that are in violation of Areos Park, as some of the Panellinios Athens complexes are illegally on the premises of the Athens Municipality and the Athens Prefecture. In February 2007, a penalty of 48 months imprisonment without suspension, and a fine of €15,000 euros was placed on Kyriakou for the arbitrary construction of a cottage property in San Aimilianos in Porto Heli. Namely, the construction of a harbor that was in violation of not only the winter tide, but also the future expansion of the coastline. As a result of this, Kyriakou appealed the ruling of the court and he was then asked to pay a fee of €100,000 euros in financial security costs until the appeal trial could be held.\n\nIn December 2004, Kyriakou married the Greek actress Mari Konstantatou (b. 1971). They announced their divorce in March 2017.\n\nHe had two sons, Xenophon and Theodore, and a daughter, Athina, from his first marriage.\n\nHe spoke Greek, English, French, Italian, Spanish, Polish, and Russian. He was awarded the Golden Cross of the Legion of Honor – Republic of Poland, Golden Cross of the order of St. George, Golden Medal of Honor – Republic of Cyprus, Golden Star of Honor – Singapore Republic, Grand Cross of the Order of the Legion of Honor – Republic of Poland.\n\nKyriakou died of a heart attack on 2 July 2017, at the Athens Medical Center. He was twice divorced and was survived by his three children from his first marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "7503628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7503628", "title": "Oedipus (horse)", "text": "Oedipus (horse)\n\nOedipus (1946–1978) was an American Champion Thoroughbred steeplechase racehorse. Sired by 1929's flat racing Horse of the Year Blue Larkspur and foaled in Kentucky, Oedipus was purchased by Lillian Bostwick Phipps and was conditioned by future Hall of Fame trainer Pete Bostwick.\n\nOedipus raced from 1948 through 1954 and was voted American Champion Steeplechase Horse for 1950 and again in 1951 when he won American steeplechasing's Triple Crown: the Broad Hollow Steeplechase Handicap, the Brook National Steeplechase Handicap, and the American Grand National. In 1952, Oedipus was again voted Champion, this time sharing the honor with Jam.\n\nRetired at the end of the 1954 racing season, Oedipus died in 1978, the year he was inducted in the United States' National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "1180998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1180998", "title": "Patricia Kennedy Lawford", "text": "Patricia Kennedy Lawford\n\nPatricia Helen \"Pat\" Kennedy Lawford (May 6, 1924 – September 17, 2006) was an American socialite and the sixth of nine children of Rose and Joseph P. Kennedy Sr. She was a sister of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and Senator Ted Kennedy. Pat wanted to be a film producer, a profession not readily open to young women in her time. She married English actor Peter Lawford in 1954, but they experienced a serious culture-clash and divorced in 1966.\n\nPatricia Helen Kennedy was born in Brookline, Massachusetts. She attended Roehampton Sacred Heart Convent School in London and Maplehurst Sacred Heart Convent School in Bronxville, New York. In 1945, she received a bachelor of arts degree from Rosemont College, where she was active in both directing and acting in theatrical productions.\n\nShe was considered the most sophisticated, yet also the most introverted, of her parents' five daughters. Since childhood she had a fascination with travel and Hollywood. In time she would become a world traveler, so much so that as a young girl she was given assignments by the independent and foreign press to write of her travels. Her ongoing fascination with Hollywood was fueled by her father's stories and adventures there as a movie mogul heading RKO Pictures. After graduating from Rosemont College, she moved to Hollywood in hopes of becoming a movie producer and director like her father.\n\nHer father apparently believed that she could do as much, once saying, \"Pat is the one with head for business. She could really run this town if she put her mind to it.\" However, because she was a woman in the very conservative 1950s, she was restricted to working as a production assistant on patriotic and religious productions such as singer Kate Smith's radio program and Father Peyton's \"Family Rosary Crusade\".\n\nWhen she was 22 years old, Lawford was the producer of \"I Love to Eat\", on NBC-TV; it was the first cooking program on network television.\n\nShe met English actor Peter Lawford through her sister Eunice in the 1940s. They met again in 1949, and again in 1953. They courted briefly and officially announced their engagement in February 1954. They married on April 24, 1954, at the Roman Catholic Church of St. Thomas More in New York City, twelve days before her thirtieth birthday. They settled in Santa Monica, California, and often socialized with actress Judy Garland and her family. Garland gave birth to her son Joseph at the same hospital and on the same day Kennedy gave birth to her son Christopher.\n\nThe couple had four children, all born in Santa Monica, California: Christopher Kennedy Lawford (1955-2018), Sydney Maleia Lawford (b. 1956), Victoria Francis Lawford (b. 1958), and Robin Elizabeth Lawford (b. 1961).\n\nDespite the glamorous persona Lawford presented, their relationship suffered strains as early as their brief engagement. Lawford had difficulty adjusting to Kennedy's steadfast Catholicism and her family's larger-than-life image. Kennedy could not tolerate Lawford's heavy drinking, extramarital affairs, and gradual addiction to drugs. Shortly after her brother Jack's death, she filed for a legal separation, and the couple was officially divorced in February 1966. She never remarried.\n\nAfter her divorce, Kennedy battled alcoholism and suffered from tongue cancer. She worked with the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum, as well as with the National Center on Addiction, and was a founder of the National Committee for the Literary Arts, for which she arranged a series of author lectures and scholarships.\n\nKennedy died of pneumonia at age of 82 on September 17, 2006 in her Manhattan home. She was buried in Southampton Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14729267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14729267", "title": "Paul Buysse", "text": "Paul Buysse\n\nPaul Henri Maria, Count Buysse, CMG, CBE (born 17 March 1945, in Antwerp) is a Belgian businessman. He is the main author of the Belgian Code for Corporate Governance (\"Code Buysse\").\n\nPaul Buysse holds a degree in Business Management from the \"Hoger Antwerps Marketing Instituut in Publiciteit, Marketing and PR\". He graduated from the Tenneco Advanced Management Programme (Mont Pelerin, Switzerland).\n\nHe started his career in 1966 at Ford Motor Company, after which he joined British Leyland Belgium in 1976. In 1980 Paul Buysse became Executive Director of Tenneco Belgium and Managing Director of J.I. Case Benelux and subsequently in 1984 he became General Manager Europe North - J.I. Case, International Harvester and Poclain. In 1988, he joined BTR plc as Group Managing Director of Hansen Transmissions International and was appointed in 1989 as Group Chief Executive BTR Automotive and Engineering Group. In 1991 Paul Buysse was appointed Group Chief Executive BTR Engineering and Dunlop Overseas and became Executive Director BTR plc (London) in 1992. In 1998 he became CEO of Vickers plc (London), after which in 2000 he joined the Bekaert Group as chairman of the Board, which he remained until May 2014.\n\nIn addition, Baron Paul Buysse was or is Chairman of the College of Censors of the National Bank of Belgium, Chairman of Immobel, Founder-President of NEA (a socio-economic reflection centre), Member of the Executive Committee of the Federation of Belgian Enterprises (FEB), Member of the High Council of the University of Antwerp, Member of the Belgian Council of INSEAD - Fontainebleau, Member of the Board of Directors VEV (Flemish employers federation), Chairman of FBNet Belgium (Family Business Network Belgium).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33991501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33991501", "title": "Piero Gnudi", "text": "Piero Gnudi\n\nPiero Gnudi (born 17 May 1938) is an Italian politician. He served as Italy's minister of tourism and sport in the Monti cabinet from16 November 2011 to April 2013.\n\nPiero Gnudi was born on 17 May 1938 in Bologna, Italy. He graduated from the University of Bologna with a degree in economics and commerce in 1962.\n\nGnudi is a board member of Confindustria, Eni, Enichem, Stet, Merloni, Ferrè, Beghelli, Irce, and Unicredit. He sits on the steering committee of Assonime and the executive committee of the Aspen Institute. He is also the chairman of Profingest, Credito Fondiario (Fonspa) and vice president of Alma Graduate School. He was the board chairman of Enel from May 2002 to April 2011. He has also been the president of Rai Holding, Locat, and Astaldi. \n\nHe was appointed minister of tourism and sport on 16 November 2011. His term ended on 28 April 2013.\n"}
{"id": "6444906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6444906", "title": "Prison Tycoon", "text": "Prison Tycoon\n\nPrison Tycoon is a business simulation computer game developed by Virtual Playground and published by ValuSoft in July 2005 that puts the user in charge of a prison. Objectives are to keep the prison running, keep the staff happy, keep the prisoners in line, all while trying to make money.\n\nUsers are allowed to choose between a New England prison, a modern U.S. Southwestern-style prison, and a West Coast-style prison modelled after San Quentin.\n\nA sequel, \"Prison Tycoon 2: Maximum Security\", was released on September 8, 2006, followed by \"Prison Tycoon 3: Lockdown\" in 2007 and \"Prison Tycoon 4: Supermax\" in 2008, then \"Prison Tycoon: Alcatraz\" in late 2010.\n\nAlso, THQ Wireless released a version of Prison Tycoon for the iPhone in May 2009.\n\n\"Prison Tycoon\" has generally received poor grades from critics. \"X-Play\"s Time Stevens gave the game only one star out of five, concluding his review by writing that \"Prisons aren't supposed to be fun, so maybe it shouldn't be a surprise that a game about prisons isn't either.\" GameZone gives the game a score of 5/10, praising the idea and concept but complaining about clunky graphics, dysfunctional camera angles and lack of instructions.\n\nSome of common complaints of the game include bad camera angles, lackluster graphics, choppy or slow framerates, annoying music and sound, and limited help for players; while most players agreed the concept was neat.\n\nThe premise of the game is to create a functional prison complete with walls, guard towers, housing wings, dining, workout and medical facilities. The objective of the game is ultimately to turn your low security incarceration facility into a profitable maximum security prison. Funding is collected by the player through state funding, charitable donations and inmate labor depending on a myriad factors, such as employee satisfaction and inmate happiness and rehabilitation. You have the option to start with a completely blank slate in a free-play mode or with the basic layout of an existing prison with several problems that need to be addressed in the challenge mode.\n\nThe challenges range from rehabilitating a certain number of inmates, reducing the number of riots and fights within the prison or simply to reaching a certain level of security. To create a prison the player places buildings or walls along a grid system by selecting which building they would like and placing it somewhere within the boundaries of the map. There are over 100 different buildings that can be constructed. Within certain buildings the player can build different rooms from over 100 to choose from, such as rooms with multiple beds within one cell or solitary confinement cells. Buildings come with their appropriate staffing, for example guard towers come with guards already positioned in the tower and medical facilities come with medical staffing.\n\nOnce a player has constructed sufficient housing and basic amenities, prisoners begin arriving on buses depending on the capacity of the prison. Prisoners continue to arrive as long as there is sufficient capacity to hold them and depart as they complete their sentences. As the number of inmates increases the prison upgrades to a higher security level, beginning at low security until it becomes a maximum security prison. With higher levels of security the player has access to more advanced facilities and upgraded walls and guard towers.\n\nPlayers are able to click on both inmates and staff to get a basic description of their levels of satisfaction, fatigue, productivity, as well as misconduct for prisoners. Players are also able to assign prisoners to cells, jobs and activities by clicking on one of these things with the prisoner selected. Also, players can drag and drop guards to areas of high misconduct or to break up riots which occur within the prison if prisoners become too dissatisfied.\n\nThe game designers created 96 different looking inmates capable of over 100 different animations to allow for a varied prison population. Inmates have various meters above their heads which the player can monitor by clicking on the prisoners. They have levels of satisfaction, fatigue, productivity and misconduct. If inmates do not have activities, such as working out, playing basketball or performing work they will become dissatisfied and their misconduct meter will increase. Having high misconduct will result in decreased productivity and an increase in fights and riots breaking out within the prison.\n\nUltimately, it is important to monitor inmate morale and keep it high to increase profits, as high inmate morale and sufficient rooming will result in more inmates arriving. Also, the player has the ability to suggest inmates to the parole board, for possible early dismissal. The approval or rejection of a prisoner is based upon the number of fights he has been in, the number of gangs he is affiliated with, the number of rehabilitation projects he has completed as well as his misconduct rating.\n\n\"Prison Tycoon 2: Maximum Security\" is a business simulation computer game developed by Virtual Playground and published by Valusoft in 2006 as a sequel to \"Prison Tycoon\". There are three real game locations in Prison Tycoon 2, Angola (Louisiana State Penitentiary), Leavenworth, KS, and Steilacoom, WA (McNeil Island).\n\n\"Prison Tycoon 2: Maximum Security\" scored 5.8/10 from user reviewers at GameSpot. The game was not reviewed by GameSpot itself.\n\"Prison Tycoon 3: Lockdown\" is a business simulation computer game for the PC. It was released in 2007 as the third game in the \"Prison Tycoon\" series.\n\n\"Prison Tycoon 3: Lockdown\" was reviewed by PC Gamer UK, who rated the game 3.8/10. The game stands with a 5.5 player rating on GameSpot.\n\"Prison Tycoon 4: Supermax\" is a business simulation computer game for the PC. It was released in 2008 as the fourth game in the Prison Tycoon series. This version of Prison Tycoon introduced several improvements, including a brand new graphics engine, advisers, more control over aspects of the game, such as the closing/opening of gates, underground tunnels, and more.\n\n\"Prison Tycoon 4: Supermax\" has not been reviewed by many professional critics. IGN's Jimmy Thang gives the game a rating of 2.5/10, \"terrible\".\n\"Prison Tycoon: Alcatraz\" is a business simulation computer game for the PC. It was released in 2010 as the fifth game in the \"Prison Tycoon\" series. As with previous installments, the game puts the user in charge of a prison, in this case, Alcatraz Island. Objectives are to keep the prison running, keep the staff happy, keep the prisoners in line, all while trying to make money.\n\n\"Prison Tycoon: Alcatraz\", similar to its predecessor, was not reviewed by professional critics, although reviews have generally been negative overall.\n\n"}
{"id": "25740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25740", "title": "Robert E. Lee", "text": "Robert E. Lee\n\nRobert Edward Lee (January 19, 1807 – October 12, 1870) was an American and Confederate soldier, best known as a commander of the Confederate States Army. He commanded the Army of Northern Virginia in the American Civil War from 1862 until his surrender in 1865. A son of Revolutionary War officer Henry \"Light Horse Harry\" Lee III, Lee was a top graduate of the United States Military Academy and an exceptional officer and military engineer in the United States Army for 32 years. During this time, he served throughout the United States, distinguished himself during the Mexican–American War, and served as Superintendent of the United States Military Academy.\n\nWhen Virginia declared its secession from the Union in April 1861, Lee chose to follow his home state, despite his desire for the country to remain intact and an offer of a senior Union command. During the first year of the Civil War, Lee served as a senior military adviser to Confederate President Jefferson Davis. Once he took command of the main field army in 1862 he soon emerged as a shrewd tactician and battlefield commander, winning most of his battles, all against far superior Union armies. Lee's strategic foresight was more questionable, and both of his major offensives into Union territory ended in defeat. Lee's aggressive tactics, which resulted in high casualties at a time when the Confederacy had a shortage of manpower, have come under criticism in recent years. Lee surrendered his entire army to Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865. By this time, Lee had assumed supreme command of the remaining Southern armies; other Confederate forces swiftly capitulated after his surrender. Lee rejected the proposal of a sustained insurgency against the Union and called for reconciliation between the two sides.\n\nIn 1865, after the war, Lee was paroled and signed an oath of allegiance, asking to have his citizenship of the United States restored. Lee's application was misplaced; as a result, he did not receive a pardon and his citizenship was not restored. In 1865, Lee became president of Washington College (later Washington and Lee University) in Lexington, Virginia; in that position, he supported reconciliation between North and South. Lee accepted \"the extinction of slavery\" provided for by the Thirteenth Amendment, but publicly opposed racial equality and granting African Americans the right to vote and other political rights. Lee died in 1870. In 1975, the U.S. Congress posthumously restored Lee's citizenship effective June 13, 1865.\n\nLee opposed the construction of public memorials to Confederate rebellion on the grounds that they would prevent the healing of wounds inflicted during the war. Nevertheless, after his death, Lee became an icon used by promoters of \"Lost Cause\" mythology, who sought to romanticize the Confederate cause and strengthen white supremacy in the South. Later in the 20th century, particularly following the civil rights movement, historians reassessed Lee; his reputation fell based on his failure to support rights for freedmen after the war, and even his strategic choices as a military leader fell under scrutiny.\n\nLee was born at Stratford Hall Plantation in Westmoreland County, Virginia, to Major General Henry Lee III (Light Horse Harry) (1756–1818), Governor of Virginia, and his second wife, Anne Hill Carter (1773–1829). His birth date has traditionally been recorded as January 19, 1807, but according to the historian Elizabeth Brown Pryor, \"Lee's writings indicate he may have been born the previous year.\"\n\nOne of Lee's great grandparents, Henry Lee I, was a prominent Virginian colonist of English descent. Lee's family is one of Virginia's first families, descended from Richard Lee I, Esq., \"the Immigrant\" (1618–64), from the county of Shropshire in England.\n\nLee's mother grew up at Shirley Plantation, one of the most elegant homes in Virginia. Lee's father, a tobacco planter, suffered severe financial reverses from failed investments.\n\nLittle is known of Lee as a child; he rarely spoke of his boyhood as an adult. Nothing is known of his relationship with his father who, after leaving his family, mentioned Robert only once in a letter. When given the opportunity to visit his father's Georgia grave, he remained there only briefly; yet, during his time as president of Washington College, he defended his father in a biographical sketch while editing Light Horse Harry's memoirs.\n\nIn 1809, Harry Lee was put in debtors prison; soon after his release the following year, Harry and Anne Lee and their five children moved to a small house on Cameron Street in Alexandria, Virginia, both because there were then high quality local schools there, and because several members of her extended family lived nearby. In 1811, the family, including the newly born sixth child, Mildred, moved to a house on Oronoco Street, still close to the center of town and with the houses of a number of Lee relatives close by.\n\nIn 1812, Harry Lee was badly injured in a political riot in Baltimore and traveled to the West Indies. He would never return, dying when his son Robert was eleven years old. Left to raise six children alone in straitened circumstances, Anne Lee and her family often paid extended visits to relatives and family friends. Robert Lee attended school at Eastern View, a school for young gentlemen, in Fauquier County, and then at the Alexandria Academy, free for local boys, where he showed an aptitude for mathematics. Although brought up to be a practicing Christian, he was not confirmed in the Episcopal Church until age 46.\n\nAnne Lee's family was often supported by a relative, William Henry Fitzhugh, who owned the Oronoco Street house and allowed the Lees to stay at his home in Fairfax County, Ravensworth. When Robert was 17 in 1824, Fitzhugh wrote to the Secretary of War, John C. Calhoun, urging that Robert be given an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Fitzhugh wrote little of Robert's academic prowess, dwelling much on the prominence of his family, and erroneously stated the boy was 18. Instead of mailing the letter, Fitzhugh had young Robert deliver it. In March 1824, Robert Lee received his appointment to West Point, but due to the large number of cadets admitted, Lee would have to wait a year to begin his studies there.\n\nLee entered West Point in the summer of 1825. At the time, the focus of the curriculum was engineering; the head of the Army Corps of Engineers supervised the school and the superintendent was an engineering officer. Cadets were not permitted leave until they had finished two years of study, and were rarely allowed off the Academy grounds. Lee graduated second in his class, behind only Charles Mason, (who resigned from the Army a year after graduation). Lee did not incur any demerits during his four-year course of study, a distinction shared by five of his 45 classmates. In June 1829, Lee was commissioned a brevet second lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers. After graduation, while awaiting assignment, he returned to Virginia to find his mother on her deathbed; she died at Ravensworth on July 26, 1829.\n\nOn August 11, 1829, Brigadier General Charles Gratiot ordered Lee to Cockspur Island, Georgia. The plan was to build a fort on the marshy island which would command the outlet of the Savannah River. Lee was involved in the early stages of construction as the island was being drained and built up. In 1831, it became apparent that the existing plan to build what became known as Fort Pulaski would have to be revamped, and Lee was transferred to Fort Monroe at the tip of the Virginia Peninsula (today in Hampton, Virginia).\n\nWhile home in the summer of 1829, Lee had apparently courted Mary Custis whom he had known as a child. Lee obtained permission to write to her before leaving for Georgia, though Mary Custis warned Lee to be \"discreet\" in his writing, as her mother read her letters, especially from men. Custis refused Lee the first time he asked to marry her; her father did not believe the son of the disgraced Light Horse Harry Lee was a suitable man for his daughter. She accepted him with her father's consent in September 1830, while he was on summer leave, and the two were wed on June 30, 1831.\n\nLee's duties at Fort Monroe were varied, typical for a junior officer, and ranged from budgeting to designing buildings. Although Mary Lee accompanied her husband to Hampton Roads, she spent about a third of her time at Arlington, though the couple's first son, Custis Lee was born at Fort Monroe. Although the two were by all accounts devoted to each other, they were different in character: Robert Lee was tidy and punctual, qualities his wife lacked. Mary Lee also had trouble transitioning from being a rich man's daughter to having to manage a household with only one or two slaves. Beginning in 1832, Robert Lee had a close but platonic relationship with Harriett Talcott, wife of his fellow officer Andrew Talcott.\n\nLife at Fort Monroe was marked by conflicts between artillery and engineering officers. Eventually the War Department transferred all engineering officers away from Fort Monroe, except Lee, who was ordered to take up residence on the artificial island of Rip Raps across the river from Fort Monroe, where Fort Wool would eventually rise, and continue work to improve the island. Lee duly moved there, then discharged all workers and informed the War Department he could not maintain laborers without the facilities of the fort.\n\nIn 1834, Lee was transferred to Washington as General Gratiot's assistant. Lee had hoped to rent a house in Washington for his family, but was not able to find one; the family lived at Arlington, though Lieutenant Lee rented a room at a Washington boarding house for when the roads were impassable. In mid-1835, Lee was assigned to assist Andrew Talcott in surveying the southern border of Michigan. While on that expedition, he responded to a letter from an ill Mary Lee, which had requested he come to Arlington, \"But why do you urge my \"immediate\" return, & tempt one in the \"strongest\" manner<nowiki>[?]</nowiki> ... I rather require to be strengthened & encouraged to the \"full\" performance of what I am called on to execute.\" Lee completed the assignment and returned to his post in Washington, finding his wife ill at Ravensworth. Mary Lee, who had recently given birth to their second child, remained bedridden for several months. In October 1836, Lee was promoted to first lieutenant.\n\nLee served as an assistant in the chief engineer's office in Washington, D.C. from 1834 to 1837, but spent the summer of 1835 helping to lay out the state line between Ohio and Michigan. As a first lieutenant of engineers in 1837, he supervised the engineering work for St. Louis harbor and for the upper Mississippi and Missouri rivers. Among his projects was the mapping of the Des Moines Rapids on the Mississippi above Keokuk, Iowa, where the Mississippi's mean depth of was the upper limit of steamboat traffic on the river. His work there earned him a promotion to captain. Around 1842, Captain Robert E. Lee arrived as Fort Hamilton's post engineer.\n\nWhile Lee was stationed at Fort Monroe, he married Mary Anna Randolph Custis (1808–73), great-granddaughter of Martha Washington by her first husband Daniel Parke Custis, and step-great-granddaughter of George Washington, the first president of the United States. Mary was the only surviving child of George Washington Parke Custis, George Washington's stepgrandson, and Mary Lee Fitzhugh Custis, daughter of William Fitzhugh and Ann Bolling Randolph. Robert and Mary married on June 30, 1831, at Arlington House, her parents' house just across from Washington, D.C. The 3rd U.S. Artillery served as honor guard at the marriage. They eventually had seven children, three boys and four girls:\n\n\nAll the children survived him except for Annie, who died in 1862. They are all buried with their parents in the crypt of the Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia.\n\nLee was a great-great-great grandson of William Randolph and a great-great grandson of Richard Bland. He was also related to Helen Keller through Helen's mother, Kate, and was a distant relative of Admiral Willis Augustus Lee.\n\nOn May 1, 1864, General Lee was at the baptism of General A.P. Hill's daughter, Lucy Lee Hill, to serve as her godfather. This is referenced in the painting \"Tender is the Heart\" by Mort Künstler. He is the godfather of actress and writer Odette Tyler, the daughter of brigadier general William Whedbee Kirkland.\n\nLee distinguished himself in the Mexican–American War (1846–48). He was one of Winfield Scott's chief aides in the march from Veracruz to Mexico City. He was instrumental in several American victories through his personal reconnaissance as a staff officer; he found routes of attack that the Mexicans had not defended because they thought the terrain was impassable.\n\nHe was promoted to brevet major after the Battle of Cerro Gordo on April 18, 1847. He also fought at Contreras, Churubusco, and Chapultepec and was wounded at the last. By the end of the war, he had received additional brevet promotions to lieutenant colonel and colonel, but his permanent rank was still captain of engineers, and he would remain a captain until his transfer to the cavalry in 1855.\n\nFor the first time, Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. Grant met and worked with each other during the Mexican–American War. Close observations of their commanders constituted a learning process for both Lee and Grant. The Mexican–American War concluded on February 2, 1848.\n\nAfter the Mexican War, Lee spent three years at Fort Carroll in Baltimore harbor. During this time, his service was interrupted by other duties, among them surveying and updating maps in Florida. Cuban revolutionary Narciso López intended to forcibly liberate Cuba from Spanish rule. In 1849, searching for a leader for his filibuster expedition, he approached Jefferson Davis, then a United States senator. Davis declined and suggested Lee, who also declined. Both decided it was inconsistent with their duties.\n\nThe 1850s were a difficult time for Lee, with his long absences from home, the increasing disability of his wife, troubles in taking over the management of a large slave plantation, and his often morbid concern with his personal failures.\n\nIn 1852, Lee was appointed Superintendent of the Military Academy at West Point. He was reluctant to enter what he called a \"snake pit\", but the War Department insisted and he obeyed. His wife occasionally came to visit. During his three years at West Point, Brevet Colonel Robert E. Lee improved the buildings and courses and spent much time with the cadets. Lee's oldest son, George Washington Custis Lee, attended West Point during his tenure. Custis Lee graduated in 1854, first in his class.\n\nLee was enormously relieved to receive a long-awaited promotion as second-in-command of the 2nd Cavalry Regiment in Texas in 1855. It meant leaving the Engineering Corps and its sequence of staff jobs for the combat command he truly wanted. He served under Colonel Albert Sidney Johnston at Camp Cooper, Texas; their mission was to protect settlers from attacks by the Apache and the Comanche.\n\nIn 1857, his father-in-law George Washington Parke Custis died, creating a serious crisis when Lee took on the burden of executing the will. Custis's will encompassed vast landholdings and hundreds of slaves balanced against massive debts, and required Custis's former slaves \"to be emancipated by my executors in such manner as to my executors may seem most expedient and proper, the said emancipation to be accomplished in not exceeding five years from the time of my decease.\" The estate was in disarray, and the plantations had been poorly managed and were losing money.\nLee tried to hire an overseer to handle the plantation in his absence, writing to his cousin, \"I wish to get an energetic honest farmer, who while he will be considerate & kind to the negroes, will be firm & make them do their duty.\" But Lee failed to find a man for the job, and had to take a two-year leave of absence from the army in order to run the plantation himself.\n\nLee's cruelty on the Arlington plantation nearly led to a slave revolt, since many of the slaves had been given to understand that they were to be made free as soon as Custis died, and protested angrily at the delay. In May 1858, Lee wrote to his son Rooney, \"I have had some trouble with some of the people. Reuben, Parks & Edward, in the beginning of the previous week, rebelled against my authority—refused to obey my orders, & said they were as free as I was, etc., etc.—I succeeded in capturing them & lodging them in jail. They resisted till overpowered & called upon the other people to rescue them.\" Less than two months after they were sent to the Alexandria jail, Lee decided to remove these three men and three female house slaves from Arlington, and sent them under lock and key to the slave-trader William Overton Winston in Richmond, who was instructed to keep them in jail until he could find \"good & responsible\" slaveholders to work them until the end of the five-year period.\n\nLee ruptured the Washington and Custis tradition of respecting slave families and by 1860 he had broken up every family but one on the estate, some of whom had been together since Mount Vernon days.\n\nIn 1859, three of the Arlington slaves—Wesley Norris, his sister Mary, and a cousin of theirs—fled for the North, but were captured a few miles from the Pennsylvania border and forced to return to Arlington. On June 24, 1859, the anti-slavery newspaper \"New York Daily Tribune\" published two anonymous letters (dated June 19, 1859 and June 21, 1859), each claiming to have heard that Lee had the Norrises whipped, and each going so far as to claim that the overseer refused to whip the woman but that Lee took the whip and flogged her personally. Lee privately wrote to his son Custis that \"The N. Y. Tribune has attacked me for my treatment of your grandfather's slaves, but I shall not reply. He has left me an unpleasant legacy.\"\n\nWesley Norris himself spoke out about the incident after the war, in an 1866 interview printed in an abolitionist newspaper, the \"National Anti-Slavery Standard\". Norris stated that after they had been captured, and forced to return to Arlington, Lee told them that \"he would teach us a lesson we would not soon forget.\" According to Norris, Lee then had the three of them firmly tied to posts by the overseer, and ordered them whipped with fifty lashes for the men and twenty for Mary Norris. Norris claimed that Lee encouraged the whipping, and that when the overseer refused to do it, called in the county constable to do it instead. Unlike the anonymous letter writers, he does not state that Lee himself whipped any of the slaves. According to Norris, Lee \"frequently enjoined [Constable] Williams to 'lay it on well,' an injunction which he did not fail to heed; not satisfied with simply lacerating our naked flesh, Gen. Lee then ordered the overseer to thoroughly wash our backs with brine, which was done.\"\n\nThe Norris men were then sent by Lee's agent to work on the railroads in Virginia and Alabama. According to the interview, Norris was sent to Richmond in January 1863 \"from which place I finally made my escape through the rebel lines to freedom.\" But Federal authorities reported that Norris came within their lines on September 5, 1863, and that he \"left Richmond...with a pass from General Custis Lee.\" Lee freed the Custis slaves, including Wesley Norris, after the end of the five-year period in the winter of 1862, filing the deed of manumission on December 29, 1862.\n\nBiographers of Lee have differed over the credibility of the account of the punishment as described in the letters in the \"Tribune\" and in Norris's personal account. They broadly agree that Lee had a group of escaped slaves recaptured, and that after recapturing them he hired them out off of the Arlington plantation as a punishment; but they disagree over the likelihood that Lee flogged them, and over the charge that he personally whipped Mary Norris. In 1934, Douglas S. Freeman described them as \"Lee's first experience with the extravagance of irresponsible antislavery agitators\" and asserted that \"There is no evidence, direct or indirect, that Lee ever had them or any other Negroes flogged. The usage at Arlington and elsewhere in Virginia among people of Lee's station forbade such a thing.\"\n\nIn 2000, Michael Fellman, in \"The Making of Robert E. Lee\", found the claims that Lee had \"personally\" whipped \"Mary\" Norris \"extremely unlikely,\" but found it not at all unlikely that Lee had ordered the runaways whipped: \"corporal punishment (for which Lee substituted the euphemism 'firmness') was (believed to be) an intrinsic and necessary part of slave discipline. Although it was supposed to be applied only in a calm and rational manner, overtly physical domination of slaves, unchecked by law, was always brutal and potentially savage.\"\n\nIn 2003, Bernice-Marie Yates's \"The Perfect Gentleman\", cited Freeman's denial and followed his account in holding that, because of Lee's family connections to George Washington, he \"was a prime target for abolitionists who lacked all the facts of the situation.\"\n\nLee biographer Elizabeth Brown Pryor concluded in 2008 that \"the facts are verifiable,\" based on \"the consistency of the five extant descriptions of the episode (the only element that is not repeatedly corroborated is the allegation that Lee gave the beatings himself), as well as the existence of an account book that indicates the constable received compensation from Lee on the date that this event occurred.\"\n\nIn 2014, Michael Korda wrote that \"Although these letters are dismissed by most of Lee's biographers as exaggerated, or simply as unfounded abolitionist propaganda, it is hard to ignore them. [...] It seems incongruously out of character for Lee to have whipped a slave woman himself, particularly one stripped to the waist, and that charge may have been a flourish added by the two correspondents; it was not repeated by Wesley Norris when his account of the incident was published in 1866. [...] [A]lthough it seems unlikely that he would have done any of the whipping himself, he may not have flinched from observing it to make sure his orders were carried out exactly.\"\n\nSeveral historians have noted the paradoxical nature of Lee's beliefs and actions concerning race and slavery. While Lee protested he had sympathetic feelings for blacks, they were subordinate to his own racial identity. While Lee held slavery to be an evil institution, he also saw some benefit to blacks held in slavery. While Lee helped assist individual slaves to freedom in Liberia, and provided for their emancipation in his own will, he believed the enslaved should be eventually freed in a general way only at some unspecified future date as a part of God's purpose. Slavery for Lee was a moral and religious issue, and not one that would yield to political solutions. Emancipation would sooner come from Christian impulse among slave masters before \"storms and tempests of fiery controversy\" such as was occurring in \"Bleeding Kansas\". Countering southerners who argued for slavery as a positive good, Lee in his well-known analysis of slavery from an 1856 letter called it a moral and political evil. While both Robert and his wife Mary Lee were disgusted with slavery, they also defended it against Abolitionist demands for immediate emancipation for all enslaved.\n\nLike Washington, Lee's father-in-law G. W. Parke Custis freed his slaves in his will. In the same tradition, before leaving to serve in Mexico, Lee had written a will providing for the manumission of the only slaves he owned. Parke Custis was a member of the American Colonization Society, which was formed to gradually end slavery by establishing a free republic in Liberia for African-Americans, and Lee assisted several ex-slaves to emigrate there. Also, according to historian Richard B. McCaslin, Lee was a gradual emancipationist, denouncing extremist proposals for immediate abolition of slavery. Lee rejected what he called evilly motivated political passion, fearing a civil and servile war from precipitous emancipation.\n\nHistorian Elizabeth Brown Pryor offered an alternative interpretation of Lee's voluntary manumission of slaves in his will, and assisting slaves to a life of freedom in Liberia, seeing Lee as conforming to a \"primacy of slave law\". She wrote that Lee's private views on race and slavery,\n\nOn taking on the role of administrator for the Parke Custis will, Lee used a provision to retain them in slavery to produce income for the estate to retire debt. Lee did not welcome the role of planter while administering the Custis properties at Romancoke, another nearby the Pamunkey River and Arlington; he rented the estate's mill. While all the estates prospered under his administration, Lee was unhappy at direct participation in slavery as a hated institution.\n\nEven before what Michael Fellman called a \"sorry involvement in actual slave management\", Lee judged the experience of white mastery to be a greater moral evil to the white man than blacks suffering under the \"painful discipline\" of slavery which introduced Christianity, literacy and a work ethic to the \"heathen African\". Columbia University historian Eric Foner notes that:\nBy the time of Lee's career in the U.S. Army, the officers of West Point stood aloof from political-party and sectional strife on such issues as slavery, as a matter of principle, and Lee adhered to the principle. He considered it his patriotic duty to be apolitical while in active Army service, and Lee did not speak out publicly on the subject of slavery prior to the Civil War. Before the outbreak of the War, in 1860, Lee voted for John C. Breckinridge, who was the extreme pro-slavery candidate in the 1860 presidential election, not John Bell, the more moderate Southerner who won Virginia.\n\nLee himself owned a small number of slaves in his lifetime and considered himself a paternalistic master. There are various historical and newspaper hearsay accounts of Lee personally whipping a slave, but they are not direct eyewitness accounts. He was definitely involved in administering the day-to-day operations of a plantation and was involved in the recapture of runaway slaves. One historian noted that Lee separated slave families, something that prominent slave-holding families in Virginia such as Washington and Custis did not do. In 1862, Lee freed the slaves that his wife inherited, but that was in accordance with his father-in-law's will.\n\nLee claimed that he found slavery bothersome and time-consuming as an everyday institution to run. In an 1856 letter to his wife, he maintained that slavery was a great evil, but primarily due to adverse impact that it had on white people:In this enlightened age, there are few I believe, but what will acknowledge, that slavery as an institution, is a moral & political evil in any Country. It is useless to expatiate on its disadvantages. I think it however a greater evil to the white man than to the black race, & while my feelings are strongly enlisted in behalf of the latter, my sympathies are more strong for the former. The blacks are immeasurably better off here than in Africa, morally, socially & physically. The painful discipline they are undergoing, is necessary for their instruction as a race, & I hope will prepare & lead them to better things. How long their subjugation may be necessary is known & ordered by a wise Merciful Providence.\n\nFoner writes that \"Lee's code of gentlemanly conduct did not seem to apply to blacks\" during the War, as he did not stop his soldiers from kidnapping free black farmers and selling them into slavery. Princeton University historian James M. McPherson noted that Lee initially rejected a prisoner exchange between the Confederacy and the Union when the Union demanded that black Union soldiers be included. Lee did not accept the swap until a few months before the Confederacy's surrender.\n\nIn December 1864 Lee was shown a letter by Louisiana Senator Edward Sparrow, written by General St. John R. Liddell, which noted Lee would be hard-pressed in the interior of Virginia by spring, and the need to consider Patrick Cleburne's plan to emancipate the slaves and put all men in the army who were willing to join. Lee was said to have agreed on all points and desired to get black soldiers, saying \"he could make soldiers out of any human being that had arms and legs.\"\n\nAfter the War, Lee told a congressional committee that blacks were \"not disposed to work\" and did not possess the intellectual capacity to vote and participate in politics. Lee also said to the committee that he hoped that Virginia could \"get rid of them,\" referring to blacks. While not politically active, Lee defended Lincoln's successor, Andrew Johnson's approach to Reconstruction, which according to Foner, \"abandoned the former slaves to the mercy of governments controlled by their former owners.\" According to Foner, \"A word from Lee might have encouraged white Southerners to accord blacks equal rights and inhibited the violence against the freed people that swept the region during Reconstruction, but he chose to remain silent.\" Lee was also urged to condemn the white-supremacy organization Ku Klux Klan, but opted to remain silent.\n\nIn the generation following the war, Lee, though he died just a few years later, became a central figure in the Lost Cause interpretation of the war. The argument that Lee had always somehow opposed slavery, and freed his wife's slaves, helped maintain his stature as a symbol of Southern honor and national reconciliation. Douglas Southall Freeman's Pulitzer prize-winning four-volume \"R. E. Lee: A Biography\" (1936), which was for a long period considered the definitive work on Lee, downplayed his involvement in slavery and emphasized Lee as a virtuous person. Eric Foner, who describes Freeman's volume as a \"hagiography\", notes that on the whole, Freeman \"displayed little interest in Lee's relationship to slavery. The index to his four volumes contained 22 entries for 'devotion to duty', 19 for 'kindness', 53 for Lee's celebrated horse, Traveller. But 'slavery', 'slave emancipation' and 'slave insurrection' together received five. Freeman observed, without offering details, that slavery in Virginia represented the system 'at its best'. He ignored the postwar testimony of Lee's former slave Wesley Norris about the brutal treatment to which he had been subjected.\"\n\nBoth Harpers Ferry and the secession of Texas were monumental events leading up to the Civil War. Robert E. Lee was at both events. Lee initially remained loyal to the Union after Texas seceded.\n\nJohn Brown led a band of 21 abolitionists who seized the federal arsenal at Harpers Ferry, Virginia, in October 1859, hoping to incite a slave rebellion. President James Buchanan gave Lee command of detachments of militia, soldiers, and United States Marines, to suppress the uprising and arrest its leaders. By the time Lee arrived that night, the militia on the site had surrounded Brown and his hostages. At dawn, Brown refused the demand for surrender. Lee attacked, and Brown and his followers were captured after three minutes of fighting. Lee's summary report of the episode shows Lee believed it \"was the attempt of a fanatic or madman\". Lee said Brown achieved \"temporary success\" by creating panic and confusion and by \"magnifying\" the number of participants involved in the raid.\n\nIn 1860, Lt. Col. Robert E. Lee relieved Major Heintzelman at Fort Brown, and the Mexican authorities offered to restrain \"their citizens from making predatory descents upon the territory and people of Texas...this was the last active operation of the Cortina War\". Rip Ford, a Texas Ranger at the time, described Lee as \"dignified without hauteur, grand without pride...he evinced an imperturbable self-possession, and a complete control of his passions...possessing the capacity to accomplish great ends and the gift of controlling and leading men.\"\n\nWhen Texas seceded from the Union in February 1861, General David E. Twiggs surrendered all the American forces (about 4,000 men, including Lee, and commander of the Department of Texas) to the Texans. Twiggs immediately resigned from the U.S. Army and was made a Confederate general. Lee went back to Washington and was appointed Colonel of the First Regiment of Cavalry in March 1861. Lee's colonelcy was signed by the new President, Abraham Lincoln. Three weeks after his promotion, Colonel Lee was offered a senior command (with the rank of Major General) in the expanding Army to fight the Southern States that had left the Union. Fort Mason, Texas was Lee's last command with the United States Army.\n\nUnlike many Southerners who expected a glorious war, Lee correctly predicted it as protracted and devastating. He privately opposed the new Confederate States of America in letters in early 1861, denouncing secession as \"nothing but revolution\" and an unconstitutional betrayal of the efforts of the Founding Fathers. Writing to George Washington Custis in January, Lee stated:\n\nDespite opposing secession, Lee said in January that \"we can with a clear conscience separate\" if all peaceful means failed. He agreed with secessionists in most areas, such as dislike of Northern anti-slavery criticisms and prevention of expanding slavery to new territories, and fear of its larger population. Lee supported the Crittenden Compromise, which would have constitutionally protected slavery.\n\nLee's objection to secession was ultimately outweighed by a sense of personal honor, reservations about the legitimacy of a strife-ridden \"Union that can only be maintained by swords and bayonets\", and duty to defend his native Virginia if attacked. He was asked while leaving Texas by a lieutenant if he intended to fight for the Confederacy or the Union, to which Lee replied, \"I shall never bear arms against the Union, but it may be necessary for me to carry a musket in the defense of my native state, Virginia, in which case I shall not prove recreant to my duty\".\n\nAlthough Virginia had the most slaves of any state, it was more similar to Maryland, which stayed in the Union, than the Deep South; a convention voted against secession in early 1861. Scott, commanding general of the Union Army and Lee's mentor, told Lincoln he wanted him for a top command, telling Secretary of War Simon Cameron that he had \"entire confidence\" in Lee. He accepted a promotion to colonel of the 1st Cavalry Regiment on March 28, again swearing an oath to the United States. Meanwhile, Lee ignored an offer of command from the Confederacy. After Lincoln's call for troops to put down the rebellion, a second Virginia convention in Richmond voted to secede on April 17, and a May 23 referendum would likely ratify the decision. That night Lee dined with brother Smith and cousin Phillips, naval officers. Because of Lee's indecision, Phillips went to the War Department the next morning to warn that the Union might lose his cousin if the government did not act quickly.\n\nIn Washington that day, Lee was offered by presidential advisor Francis P. Blair a role as major general to command the defense of the national capital. He replied:\n\nLee agreed that to avoid dishonor he had to resign before receiving unwanted orders. While historians have usually called his decision inevitable (\"the answer he was born to make\", wrote Douglas Southall Freeman; another called it a \"no-brainer\") given the ties to family and state, an 1871 letter from his eldest daughter, Mary Custis Lee, to a biographer described Lee as \"worn and harassed\" yet calm as he deliberated alone in his office. People on the street noticed Lee's grim face as he tried to decide over the next two days, and he later said that he kept the resignation letter for a day before sending it on April 20. Two days later the Richmond convention invited Lee to the city. It elected him as commander of Virginia state forces before his arrival on April 23, and almost immediately gave him George Washington's sword as symbol of his appointment; whether he was told of a decision he did not want without time to decide, or did want the excitement and opportunity of command, is unclear.\n\nA cousin on Scott's staff told the family that Lee's decision so upset Scott that he collapsed on a sofa and mourned as if he had lost a son, and asked to not hear Lee's name. When Lee told family his decision he said \"I suppose you will all think I have done very wrong\", as the others were mostly pro-Union; only Mary Custis was a secessionist, and her mother especially wanted to choose the Union but told her husband that she would support whatever he decided. Many younger men like nephew Fitzhugh wanted to support the Confederacy, but Lee's three sons joined the Confederate military only after their father's decision.\n\nMost family members like brother Smith reluctantly also chose the South, but Smith's wife and Anne, Lee's sister, still supported the Union; Anne's son joined the Union Army, and no one in his family ever spoke to Lee again. Many cousins fought for the Confederacy, but Phillips and John Fitzgerald told Lee in person that they would uphold their oaths; John H. Upshur stayed with the Union military despite much family pressure; Roger Jones stayed in the Union army after Lee refused to advise him on what to do; and two of Philip Fendall's sons fought for the Union. Forty percent of Virginian officers stayed with the North.\n\nAt the outbreak of war, Lee was appointed to command all of Virginia's forces, but upon the formation of the Confederate States Army, he was named one of its first five full generals. Lee did not wear the insignia of a Confederate general, but only the three stars of a Confederate colonel, equivalent to his last U.S. Army rank. He did not intend to wear a general's insignia until the Civil War had been won and he could be promoted, in peacetime, to general in the Confederate Army.\n\nLee's first field assignment was commanding Confederate forces in western Virginia, where he was defeated at the Battle of Cheat Mountain and was widely blamed for Confederate setbacks. He was then sent to organize the coastal defenses along the Carolina and Georgia seaboard, appointed commander, \"Department of South Carolina, Georgia and Florida\" on November 5, 1861. Between then and the fall of Fort Pulaski, April 11, 1862, he put in place a defense of Savannah that proved successful in blocking Federal advance on Savannah. Confederate fort and naval gunnery dictated night time movement and construction by the besiegers. Federal preparations required four months. In those four months, Lee developed a defense in depth. Behind Fort Pulaski on the Savannah River, Fort Jackson was improved, and two additional batteries covered river approaches. In the face of the Union superiority in naval, artillery and infantry deployment, Lee was able to block any Federal advance on Savannah, and at the same time, well-trained Georgia troops were released in time to meet McClellan's Peninsula Campaign. The City of Savannah would not fall until Sherman's approach from the interior at the end of 1864.\n\nAt first, the press spoke to the disappointment of losing Fort Pulaski. Surprised by the effectiveness of large caliber Parrott Rifles in their first deployment, it was widely speculated that only betrayal could have brought overnight surrender to a Third System Fort. Lee was said to have failed to get effective support in the Savannah River from the three sidewheeler gunboats of the Georgia Navy. Although again blamed by the press for Confederate reverses, he was appointed military adviser to Confederate President Jefferson Davis, the former U.S. Secretary of War. While in Richmond, Lee was ridiculed as the 'King of Spades' for his excessive digging of trenches around the capitol. These trenches would later play a pivotal role in battles near the end of the war.\n\nIn the spring of 1862, in the Peninsula Campaign, the Union Army of the Potomac under General George B. McClellan advanced on Richmond from Fort Monroe to the east. McClellan forced Gen. Joseph E. Johnston and the Army of Virginia to retreat to just north and east of the Confederate capital.\n\nThen Johnston was wounded at the Battle of Seven Pines, on June 1, 1862. Lee now got his first opportunity to lead an army in the field – the force he renamed the Army of \"Northern\" Virginia, signalling his confidence that the Union army would be driven away from Richmond. Early in the war, Lee had been called \"Granny Lee\" for his allegedly timid style of command. Confederate newspaper editorials objected to him replacing Johnston, opining that Lee would be passive, waiting for Union attack. And for the first three weeks of June, he did not attack, instead strengthening Richmond's defenses.\n\nBut then he launched a series of bold attacks against McClellan's forces, the Seven Days Battles. Despite superior Union numbers, and some clumsy tactical performances by his subordinates, Lee's attacks derailed McClellan's plans and drove back part of his forces. Confederate casualties were heavy, but McClellan was unnerved, retreated to the lower James River, and abandoned the Peninsula Campaign. This success completely changed Confederate morale, and the public's regard for Lee. After the Seven Days Battles, and until the end of the war, his men called him simply \"Marse Robert\", a term of respect and affection.\n\nThe setback, and the resulting drop in Union morale, impelled Lincoln to adopt a new policy of relentless, committed warfare. After the Seven Days, Lincoln decided he would move to emancipate most Confederate slaves by executive order, as a military act, using his authority as commander-in-chief. But he needed a Union victory first.\n\nMeanwhile, Lee defeated another Union army under Gen. John Pope at the Second Battle of Bull Run. In less than 90 days after taking command, Lee had run McClellan off the Peninsula, defeated Pope, and moved the battle lines from outside Richmond, to outside Washington.\n\nLee now invaded Maryland and Pennsylvania, hoping to collect supplies in Union territory, and possibly win a victory that would sway the upcoming Union elections in favor of ending the war. But McClellan's men found a lost Confederate dispatch, Special Order 191, that revealed Lee's plans and movements. McClellan always exaggerated Lee's numerical strength, but now he knew the Confederate army was divided and could be destroyed in detail. However, McClellan moved slowly, not realizing a spy had informed Lee that McClellan had the plans. Lee quickly concentrated his forces west of Antietam Creek, near Sharpsburg, Maryland, where McClellan attacked on September 17. The Battle of Antietam was the single bloodiest day of the war, with both sides suffering enormous losses. Lee's army barely withstood the Union assaults, then retreated to Virginia the next day. This narrow Confederate defeat gave President Abraham Lincoln the opportunity to issue his Emancipation Proclamation, which put the Confederacy on the diplomatic and moral defensive.\n\nDisappointed by McClellan's failure to destroy Lee's army, Lincoln named Ambrose Burnside as commander of the Army of the Potomac. Burnside ordered an attack across the Rappahannock River at Fredericksburg, Virginia. Delays in bridging the river allowed Lee's army ample time to organize strong defenses, and the Union frontal assault on December 13, 1862 was a disaster. There were 12,600 Union casualties to 5,000 Confederate; one of the most one-sided battles in the Civil War. After this victory, Lee reportedly said \"It is well that war is so terrible, else we should grow too fond of it.\" At Fredericksburg, according to historian Michael Fellman, Lee had completely entered into the \"spirit of war, where destructiveness took on its own beauty.\"\n\nAfter the bitter Union defeat at Fredericksburg, President Lincoln named Joseph Hooker commander of the Army of the Potomac. In May 1863, Hooker maneuvered to attack Lee's army via Chancellorsville, Virginia. But Hooker was defeated by Lee's daring maneuver: dividing his army and sending Stonewall Jackson's corps to attack Hooker's flank. Lee won a decisive victory over a larger force, but with heavy casualties, including Jackson, his finest corps commander, who was accidentally killed by his own troops.\n\nThe critical decisions came in May–June 1863, after Lee's smashing victory at the Battle of Chancellorsville. The western front was crumbling, as multiple uncoordinated Confederate armies were unable to handle General Ulysses S. Grant's campaign against Vicksburg. The top military advisers wanted to save Vicksburg, but Lee persuaded Davis to overrule them and authorize yet another invasion of the North. The immediate goal was to acquire urgently needed supplies from the rich farming districts of Pennsylvania; a long-term goal was to stimulate peace activity in the North by demonstrating the power of the South to invade. Lee's decision proved a significant strategic blunder and cost the Confederacy control of its western regions, and nearly cost Lee his own army as Union forces cut him off from the South.\n\nIn the summer of 1863, Lee invaded the North again, marching through western Maryland and into south central Pennsylvania. He encountered Union forces under George G. Meade at the three-day Battle of Gettysburg in Pennsylvania in July; the battle would produce the largest number of casualties in the American Civil War. With some of his subordinates being new and inexperienced in their commands, J.E.B. Stuart's cavalry being out of the area, and Lee being slightly ill, he was less than comfortable with how events were unfolding. While the first day of battle was controlled by the Confederates, key terrain that should have been taken by General Ewell was not. The second day ended with the Confederates unable to break the Union position, and the Union being more solidified. Lee's decision on the third day, against the judgment of his best corps commander General Longstreet, to launch a massive frontal assault on the center of the Union line turned out to be disastrous. The assault known as Pickett's Charge was repulsed and resulted in heavy Confederate losses. The general rode out to meet his retreating army and proclaimed, \"All this has been my fault.\" Lee was compelled to retreat. Despite flooded rivers that blocked his retreat, he escaped Meade's ineffective pursuit. Following his defeat at Gettysburg, Lee sent a letter of resignation to President Davis on August 8, 1863, but Davis refused Lee's request. That fall, Lee and Meade met again in two minor campaigns that did little to change the strategic standoff. The Confederate Army never fully recovered from the substantial losses incurred during the 3-day battle in southern Pennsylvania. The historian Shelby Foote stated, \"Gettysburg was the price the South paid for having Robert E. Lee as commander.\"\n\nIn 1864 the new Union general-in-chief, Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant, sought to use his large advantages in manpower and material resources to destroy Lee's army by attrition, pinning Lee against his capital of Richmond. Lee successfully stopped each attack, but Grant with his superior numbers kept pushing each time a bit farther to the southeast. These battles in the Overland Campaign included the Wilderness, Spotsylvania Court House and Cold Harbor.\n\nGrant eventually was able to stealthily move his army across the James River. After stopping a Union attempt to capture Petersburg, Virginia, a vital railroad link supplying Richmond, Lee's men built elaborate trenches and were besieged in Petersburg, a development which presaged the trench warfare of World War I. Lee attempted to break the stalemate by sending Jubal A. Early on a raid through the Shenandoah Valley to Washington, D.C., but Early was defeated early on by the superior forces of Philip Sheridan. The Siege of Petersburg lasted from June 1864 until March 1865, with Lee's outnumbered and poorly supplied army shrinking daily because of desertions by disheartened Confederates.\n\nOn February 6, 1865, Lee was appointed General in Chief of the Armies of the Confederate States.\n\nAs the South ran out of manpower the issue of arming the slaves became paramount. Lee explained, \"We should employ them without delay ... [along with] gradual and general emancipation.\" The first units were in training as the war ended. As the Confederate army was devastated by casualties, disease and desertion, the Union attack on Petersburg succeeded on April 2, 1865. Lee abandoned Richmond and retreated west. Lee then made an attempt to escape to the southwest and join up with Joseph E. Johnston's Army of Tennessee in North Carolina. However, his forces were soon surrounded and he surrendered them to Grant on April 9, 1865, at the Battle of Appomattox Court House. Other Confederate armies followed suit and the war ended. The day after his surrender, Lee issued his Farewell Address to his army.\n\nLee resisted calls by some officers to reject surrender and allow small units to melt away into the mountains, setting up a lengthy guerrilla war. He insisted the war was over and energetically campaigned for inter-sectional reconciliation. \"So far from engaging in a war to perpetuate slavery, I am rejoiced that slavery is abolished. I believe it will be greatly for the interests of the South.\"\n\nThe following are summaries of Civil War campaigns and major battles where Robert E. Lee was the commanding officer:\n\nAfter the war, Lee was not arrested or punished (although he was indicted), but he did lose the right to vote as well as some property. Lee’s prewar family home, the Custis-Lee Mansion, was seized by Union forces during the war and turned into Arlington National Cemetery, and his family was not compensated until more than a decade after his death.\n\nLee somewhat supported President Johnson’s plan of Reconstruction. In 1866 Lee counseled southerners not to resume fighting, of which Grant said Lee was “setting an example of forced acquiescence so grudging and pernicious in its effects as to be hardly realized”. Lee joined with Democrats in opposing the Radical Republicans who demanded punitive measures against the South, distrusted its commitment to the abolition of slavery and, indeed, distrusted the region’s loyalty to the United States. Lee supported a system of free public schools for blacks, but forthrightly opposed allowing blacks to vote. “My own opinion is that, at this time, they [black Southerners] cannot vote intelligently, and that giving them the [vote] would lead to a great deal of demagogism, and lead to embarrassments in various ways,” Lee stated. Emory Thomas says Lee had become a suffering Christ-like icon for ex-Confederates. President Grant invited him to the White House in 1869, and he went. Nationally he became an icon of reconciliation between the North and South, and the reintegration of former Confederates into the national fabric.\n\nLee hoped to retire to a farm of his own, but he was too much a regional symbol to live in obscurity. From April to June 1865, he and his family resided in Richmond at the Stewart-Lee House. He accepted an offer to serve as the president of Washington College (now Washington and Lee University) in Lexington, Virginia, and served from October 1865 until his death. The Trustees used his famous name in large-scale fund-raising appeals and Lee transformed Washington College into a leading Southern college, expanding its offerings significantly, adding programs in commerce and journalism, and incorporating the Lexington Law School. Lee was well liked by the students, which enabled him to announce an \"honor system\" like that of West Point, explaining that \"we have but one rule here, and it is that every student be a gentleman.\" To speed up national reconciliation Lee recruited students from the North and made certain they were well treated on campus and in town.\n\nSeveral glowing appraisals of Lee’s tenure as college president have survived, depicting the dignity and respect he commanded among all. Previously, most students had been obliged to occupy the campus dormitories, while only the most mature were allowed to live off-campus. Lee quickly reversed this rule, requiring most students to board off-campus, and allowing only the most mature to live in the dorms as a mark of privilege; the results of this policy were considered a success. A typical account by a professor there states that “the students fairly worshipped him, and deeply dreaded his displeasure; yet so kind, affable, and gentle was he toward them that all loved to approach him. ... No student would have dared to violate General Lee’s expressed wish or appeal; if he had done so, the students themselves would have driven him from the college.”\n\nWhile at Washington College, Lee told a colleague that the greatest mistake of his life was taking a military education.\n\nOn May 29, 1865, President Andrew Johnson issued a Proclamation of Amnesty and Pardon to persons who had participated in the rebellion against the United States. There were fourteen excepted classes, though, and members of those classes had to make special application to the President. Lee sent an application to Grant and wrote to President Johnson on June 13, 1865:\n\nOn October 2, 1865, the same day that Lee was inaugurated as president of Washington College in Lexington, Virginia, he signed his Amnesty Oath, thereby complying fully with the provision of Johnson’s proclamation. Lee was not pardoned, nor was his citizenship restored.\n\nThree years later, on December 25, 1868, Johnson proclaimed a second amnesty which removed previous exceptions, such as the one that affected Lee.\n\nLee, who had opposed secession and remained mostly indifferent to politics before the Civil War, supported President Andrew Johnson’s plan of Presidential Reconstruction that took effect in 1865–66. However, he opposed the Congressional Republican program that took effect in 1867. In February 1866, he was called to testify before the Joint Congressional Committee on Reconstruction in Washington, where he expressed support for Johnson's plans for quick restoration of the former Confederate states, and argued that restoration should return, as far as possible, to the \"status quo ante\" in the Southern states' governments (with the exception of slavery).\n\nLee told the Committee, \"...every one with whom I associate expresses kind feelings towards the freedmen. They wish to see them get on in the world, and particularly to take up some occupation for a living, and to turn their hands to some work.\" Lee also expressed his \"willingness that blacks should be educated, and ... that it would be better for the blacks and for the whites.\" Lee forthrightly opposed allowing blacks to vote: \"My own opinion is that, at this time, they [black Southerners] cannot vote intelligently, and that giving them the [vote] would lead to a great deal of demagogism, and lead to embarrassments in various ways.\"\n\nIn an interview in May 1866, Lee said: \"The Radical party are likely to do a great deal of harm, for we wish now for good feeling to grow up between North and South, and the President, Mr. Johnson, has been doing much to strengthen the feeling in favor of the Union among us. The relations between the Negroes and the whites were friendly formerly, and would remain so if legislation be not passed in favor of the blacks, in a way that will only do them harm.\"\n\nIn 1868, Lee’s ally Alexander H. H. Stuart drafted a public letter of endorsement for the Democratic Party's presidential campaign, in which Horatio Seymour ran against Lee's old foe Republican Ulysses S. Grant. Lee signed it along with thirty-one other ex-Confederates. The Democratic campaign, eager to publicize the endorsement, published the statement widely in newspapers. Their letter claimed paternalistic concern for the welfare of freed Southern blacks, stating that “The idea that the Southern people are hostile to the negroes and would oppress them, if it were in their power to do so, is entirely unfounded. They have grown up in our midst, and we have been accustomed from childhood to look upon them with kindness.” However, it also called for the restoration of white political rule, arguing that “It is true that the people of the South, in common with a large majority of the people of the North and West, are, for obvious reasons, inflexibly opposed to any system of laws that would place the political power of the country in the hands of the negro race. But this opposition springs from no feeling of enmity, but from a deep-seated conviction that, at present, the negroes have neither the intelligence nor the other qualifications which are necessary to make them safe depositories of political power.”\n\nIn his public statements and private correspondence, Lee argued that a tone of reconciliation and patience would further the interests of white Southerners better than hotheaded antagonism to federal authority or the use of violence. Lee repeatedly expelled white students from Washington College for violent attacks on local black men, and publicly urged obedience to the authorities and respect for law and order. He privately chastised fellow ex-Confederates such as Jefferson Davis and Jubal Early for their frequent, angry responses to perceived Northern insults, writing in private to them as he had written to a magazine editor in 1865, that “It should be the object of all to avoid controversy, to allay passion, give full scope to reason and to every kindly feeling. By doing this and encouraging our citizens to engage in the duties of life with all their heart and mind, with a determination not to be turned aside by thoughts of the past and fears of the future, our country will not only be restored in material prosperity, but will be advanced in science, in virtue and in religion.”\n\nOn September 28, 1870, Lee suffered a stroke. He died two weeks later, shortly after 9 a.m. on October 12, 1870, in Lexington, Virginia, from the effects of pneumonia. According to one account, his last words on the day of his death, were \"Tell Hill he must come up. Strike the tent\", but this is debatable because of conflicting accounts and because Lee's stroke had resulted in aphasia, possibly rendering him unable to speak.\n\nAt first no suitable coffin for the body could be located. The muddy roads were too flooded for anyone to get in or out of the town of Lexington. An undertaker had ordered three from Richmond that had reached Lexington, but due to unprecedented flooding from long-continued heavy rains, the caskets were washed down the Maury River. Two neighborhood boys, C.G. Chittum and Robert E. Hillis, found one of the coffins that had been swept ashore. Undamaged, it was used for the General's body, though it was a bit short for him. As a result, Lee was buried without shoes. He was buried underneath Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University, where his body remains.\n\nAmong the supporters of the Confederacy, Lee came to be even more revered after his surrender than he had been during the war, when Stonewall Jackson had been the great Confederate hero. In an address before the Southern Historical Society in Atlanta, Georgia in 1874, Benjamin Harvey Hill described Lee in this way:\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, Lee's popularity had spread to the North. Lee's admirers have pointed to his character and devotion to duty, and his brilliant tactical successes in battle after battle against a stronger foe.\n\nMilitary historians continue to pay attention to his battlefield tactics and maneuvering, though many think he should have designed better strategic plans for the Confederacy. He was not given full direction of the Southern war effort until late in the conflict.\n\nHistorian Eric Foner writes that at the end of his life,\n\nRobert E. Lee has been commemorated on U.S. postage stamps at least five times, the first one being a commemorative stamp that also honored Stonewall Jackson, issued in 1936. A second \"regular-issue\" stamp was issued in 1955. He was commemorated with a 32-cent stamp issued in the American Civil War Issue of June 29, 1995. His horse Traveller is pictured in the background. An image of the stamp is available at Arago online at the link in the footnote.\n\nWashington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia was commemorated on its 200th anniversary on November 23, 1948, with a 3-cent postage stamp. The central design is a view of the university, flanked by portraits of generals George Washington and Robert E. Lee. Lee was again commemorated on a commemorative stamp in 1970, along with Jefferson Davis and Thomas J. \"Stonewall\" Jackson, depicted on horseback on the 6-cent Stone Mountain Memorial commemorative issue, modeled after the actual Stone Mountain Memorial carving in Georgia. The stamp was issued on September 19, 1970, in conjunction with the dedication of the Stone Mountain Confederate Memorial in Georgia on May 9, 1970. The design of the stamp replicates the memorial, the largest high relief sculpture in the world. It is carved on the side of Stone Mountain 400 feet above the ground.\n\nStone Mountain also led to Lee's appearance on a commemorative coin, the 1925 Stone Mountain Memorial half dollar. During the 1920s and '30s dozens of specially designed half dollars were struck to raise money for various events and causes. This issue had a particularly wide distribution, with 1,314,709 minted. Unlike some of the other issues it remains a very common coin.\nOn September 29, 2007, General Lee's three Civil War-era letters were sold for $61,000 at auction by Thomas Willcox, much less than the record of $630,000 for a Lee item in 2002. The auction included more than 400 documents of Lee's from the estate of the parents of Willcox that had been in the family for generations. South Carolina sued to stop the sale on the grounds that the letters were official documents and therefore property of the state, but the court ruled in favor of Willcox.\n\nOn January 30, 1975, Senate Joint Resolution 23, \"A joint resolution to restore posthumously full rights of citizenship to General R. E. Lee\" was introduced into the Senate by Senator Harry F. Byrd Jr. (I-VA), the result of a five-year campaign to accomplish this. The resolution, which enacted Public Law 94-67, was passed, and the bill was signed by President Gerald Ford on September 5.\n\nFrom its installation in 1884 until its removal in 2017, the most prominent monument in New Orleans was a -tall monument to General Lee. A statue of Lee stood tall upon a towering column of white marble in the middle of Lee Circle. The statue of Lee, which weighs more than faced the north. Lee Circle is situated along New Orleans's famous St. Charles Avenue. The New Orleans streetcars roll past Lee Circle and New Orleans's best Mardi Gras parades go around Lee Circle (the spot is so popular that bleachers are set up annually around the perimeter for Mardi Gras). Around the corner from Lee Circle is New Orleans's Confederate museum, which contains the second-largest collection of Confederate memorabilia in the world. The statue of General Lee was removed on May 19, 2017, the last of four Confederate monuments in New Orleans to be taken down.\n\nIn a tribute to Lee Circle (which had formerly been known as Tivoli Circle), former Confederate soldier George Washington Cable wrote:\nIn Tivoli Circle, New Orleans, from the centre and apex of its green flowery mound, an immense column of pure white marble rises in the ... majesty of Grecian proportions high up above the city's house-tops into the dazzling sunshine ... On its dizzy top stands the bronze figure of one of the world's greatest captains. He is alone. Not one of his mighty lieutenants stand behind, beside or below him. His arms are folded on that breast that never knew fear, and his calm, dauntless gaze meets the morning sun as it rises, like the new prosperity of the land he loved and served so masterly, above the far distant battle fields where so many thousands of his gray veterans lie in the sleep of fallen heroes. (\"Silent South\", 1885, The Century Illustrated Monthly Magazine)\n\nArlington House, The Robert E. Lee Memorial, also known as the Custis–Lee Mansion, is a Greek revival mansion in Arlington, Virginia, that was once Lee's home. It overlooks the Potomac River and the National Mall in Washington, D.C. During the Civil War, the grounds of the mansion were selected as the site of Arlington National Cemetery, in part to ensure that Lee would never again be able to return to his home. The United States designated the mansion as a National Memorial to Lee in 1955, a mark of widespread respect for him in both the North and South.\n\nIn Richmond, Virginia, a large equestrian statue of Lee by French sculptor Jean Antonin Mercié is the centerpiece of the city's famous Monument Avenue, which boasts four other statues to famous Confederates. This monument to Lee was unveiled on May 29, 1890; over 100,000 people attended this dedication. That has been described as \"the day white Virginia stopped admiring Gen. Robert E. Lee and started worshiping him\". Lee is also shown mounted on Traveller in Gettysburg National Military Park on top of the Virginia Monument; he is facing roughly in the direction of Pickett's Charge. Lee's portrayal on a mural on Richmond's Flood Wall on the James River, considered offensive by some, was removed in the late 1990s, but currently is back on the flood wall.\n\nAlso in Virginia, the Robert Edward Lee (sculpture) at Charlottesville was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1997. Since there is no historical link between Lee and the city of Charlottesville, the City Council of Charlottesville voted in February 2017 to remove it, along with a statue of Stonewall Jackson, but this was temporarily stayed by court action. They did rename Lee Park, Emancipation Park. The prospect of the statues being removed and the parks being renamed brought many out-of-towners, described as white supremacist and alt-right, to Charlottesville in the Unite the Right rally of August, 2017, in which 3 people died. For several months the monuments were shrouded in black. As of October, 2018, the fate of the statue of Lee is unresolved. The name of the park it is located in was changed again by the City Council, to Market Street Park, in July, 2018.\n\nIn Baltimore's Wyman Park, a large double equestrian statue of Lee and Jackson is located directly across from the Baltimore Museum of Art. Designed by Laura Gardin Fraser and dedicated in 1948, Lee is depicted astride his horse Traveller next to Stonewall Jackson who is mounted on \"Little Sorrel.\" Architect John Russell Pope created the base, which was dedicated on the anniversary of the eve of the Battle of Chancellorsville. The Baltimore area of Maryland is also home to a large nature park called Robert E. Lee Memorial Park.\n\nIn 1953, two stained-glass windows – one honoring Lee, the other Stonewall Jackson – were installed in the Washington National Cathedral. The stained glass of Lee shows him on horseback at Chancellorsville; it was sponsored by the United Daughters of the Confederacy. In 2017, these windows were removed by a vote of the Cathedral's governing board. The cathedral plans to keep the windows and eventually display them in historical context.\n\nAn equestrian statue of Lee was installed in Robert E. Lee Park, in Dallas, until 2017; and in Austin, a statue of Lee is on display at the main mall of the University of Texas at Austin. A statue of Robert E. Lee is one of two statues (the other is Washington) representing Virginia in Statuary Hall in the Capitol in Washington, D.C. Lee is one of the figures depicted in bas-relief carved into Stone Mountain near Atlanta. Accompanying him on horseback in the relief are Stonewall Jackson and Jefferson Davis.\n\nThe birthday of Robert E. Lee is celebrated or commemorated in several states. In Virginia, Lee–Jackson Day is celebrated on the Friday preceding Martin Luther King, Jr. Day which is the third Monday in January. In Texas, he is celebrated as part of Confederate Heroes Day on January 19, Lee's birthday. In Alabama, Arkansas, and Mississippi, his birthday is celebrated on the same day as Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, while in Georgia, this occurred on the day after Thanksgiving before 2016, when the state stopped officially recognizing the holiday.\n\nOne United States college and one junior college are named for Lee: Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia; and Lee College in Baytown, Texas, respectively. Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University marks Lee's final resting place. Throughout the South, many primary and secondary schools were also named for him as well as private schools such as Robert E. Lee Academy in Bishopville, South Carolina.\n\nIn 1900, Lee was one of the first 29 individuals selected for the Hall of Fame for Great Americans (the first Hall of Fame in the United States), designed by Stanford White, on the Bronx, New York, campus of New York University, now a part of Bronx Community College. However, his bust was removed in August 2017 by order of New York Governor Andrew Cuomo.\n\nIn 1862, the newly formed Confederate Navy purchased a 642-ton iron-hulled side-wheel gunboat, built in at Glasgow, Scotland, and gave her the name of CSS \"Robert E. Lee\" in honor of this Confederate General. During the next year, she became one of the South's most famous Confederate blockade runners, successfully making more than twenty runs through the Union blockade.\n\nThe Mississippi River steamboat \"Robert E. Lee\" was named for Lee after the Civil War. It was the participant in an 1870 St. Louis – New Orleans race with the \"Natchez VI\", which was featured in a Currier and Ives lithograph. The \"Robert E. Lee\" won the race. The steamboat inspired the 1912 song \"Waiting for the Robert E. Lee\" by Lewis F. Muir and L. Wolfe Gilbert. In more modern times, the , a built in 1958, was named for Lee, as was the M3 Lee tank, produced in 1941 and 1942.\n\nThe Commonwealth of Virginia issues an optional license plate honoring Lee, making reference to him as 'The Virginia Gentleman'. In February 2014, a road on Fort Bliss previously named for Lee was renamed to honor Buffalo Soldiers.\n\nA recent biographer, Jonathan Horn, outlines the unsuccessful efforts in Washington to memorialize Lee in the naming of the Arlington Memorial Bridge after both Grant and Lee.\n\n\nLee is a main character in the Shaara Family novels \"The Killer Angels\" (1974, \"Gettysburg\"), \"Gods and Generals\" (1988), and \"The Last Full Measure\" (2000), as well as the film adaptations of \"Gettysburg\" (1993) and \"Gods and Generals\" (2003). He is played by Martin Sheen in the former and by Lee's descendant Robert Duvall in the latter. Lee is portrayed as a hero in the historical children's novel \"Lee and Grant at Appomattox\" (1950) by MacKinlay Kantor. His part in the Civil War is told from the perspective of his horse in Richard Adams's book \"Traveller\" (1988).\n\nLee is an obvious subject for American Civil War alternate histories. Ward Moore's \"Bring the Jubilee\" (1953), Kantor's \"If the South Had Won the Civil War\" (1960), and Harry Turtledove's \"The Guns of the South\" (1992), all have Lee ending up as President of a victorious Confederacy and freeing the slaves (or laying the groundwork for the slaves to be freed in a later decade). Although \"Bring\" and \"If\" relegate him to a set of passing references, Lee is more of a main character in the \"Guns\". He is also the prime character of Turtledove's \"Lee at the Alamo,\" which can be read on-line, and sees the opening of the Civil War drastically altered so as to affect Lee's personal priorities considerably. Turtledove's \"War Between the Provinces\" series is an allegory of the Civil War told in the language of fairy tales, with Lee appearing as a knight named \"Duke Edward of Arlington.\" Lee is also a knight in \"The Charge of Lee's Brigade\" in \"Alternate Generals\" volume 1, written by Turtledove's friend S.M. Stirling and featuring Lee, whose Virginia is still a loyal British colony, fighting for the Crown against the Russians in Crimea. In Lee Allred's \"East of Appomattox\" in \"Alternate Generals\" volume 3, Lee is the Confederate Minister to London circa 1868, desperately seeking help for a CSA which has turned out poorly suited to independence. Robert Skimin's \"Grey Victory\" features Lee as a supporting character preparing to run for the presidency in 1867.\n\nThe Dodge Charger featured in the CBS television series \"The Dukes of Hazzard\" (1979–1985) was named The General Lee. In the 2005 film based on this series, the car is driven past a statue of the General, while the car's occupants salute him.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46979872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46979872", "title": "Safa Abdulla Al Geabury", "text": "Safa Abdulla Al Geabury\n\nSafa Abdulla Al Geabury (born 5 June 1963) is a Swiss businessman who has claimed he is a billionaire. He is the owner of Safaforex S.A. (formerly Billionaire S.A.A.A.A.A) and made his money in foreign currency dealing and trading in precious stones and jewellery.\n\nSafa Abdulla Al Geabury was born on 5 June 1963.\n\nAl Geabury made his money in foreign currency dealing and trading in precious stones and jewellery. Safaforex S.A. (formerly Billionaire S.A.) is a firm that imports and exports precious stones and jewellery. In 2006, the Swiss authorities sought the extradition from the United States of Yu Mei Wu, a Taiwanese national, who was alleged to have fraudulently obtained jewellery worth more than US$32 million from Al Geabury. He was a director of Kingdom of Treasures Limited which was dissolved in 2011.\n\nAl Geabury formerly divided his time between Geneva and London, with a home in London's exclusive Grosvenor Square and later Sloane Street. In 2015, Al Geabury was sued by The Ritz Club, located in the basement of The Ritz Hotel owned by the Barclay Brothers, for £2 million after a cheque he had written to settle gambling debts incurred in 2014 in one night's play at roulette, was not honoured. Al Geabury has claimed that he suffers from a gambling addiction and the club should have known that and not extended him credit. In July 2015, a judge ruled that Al Geabury should honour his debts, commenting that he was \"the author of his own misfortunes\".\n\nIn November 2015, a worldwide freezing order was imposed by a British court for £2.6 million but no money has been paid. In court proceedings in London in April 2016, for which Al Geabury was not present, he was sentenced to 10 months in jail for contempt of court for failure to settle his gambling debts which with interest and court charges have risen to £3.2 million.\n\nIn a British court in June 2015, Al Geabury accepted that his wealth, including his collection of Islamic art, was in excess of $1 billion, however, in court proceedings in London in April 2016, at which Al Geabury was not present, it was claimed on his behalf that the art collection was only promised by an uncle and that he does not have it. It was also said that he had no assets worth more than £20,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "4278694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4278694", "title": "Software Star", "text": "Software Star\n\nSoftware Star is a 1985 game released by Kevin Toms for the Amstrad CPC, Commodore 64 and ZX Spectrum.\n\nEssentially a text-based management game. The player's task is to manage a software house, create new games, manage his publicity and make a profit of £10000. Meanwhile, he must achieve the status of \"Software Star\" for ten successive months.\n\nHaving a large portfolio of games has its advantages by increasing the player's monthly sales. However, money must be spent on promoting aging titles. Each game has its own quality rating, where the quality increases with the amount of time spent on development. Managing the productivity of the player's staff is also key to the game, giving him a snapshot of the last six months. He could decide to either discipline offer incentives or take no action. There are four sales regions where the player's products are sold. These regions are ordered from one to four, depending on how much importance he gives to them by consulting the sales from the previous month. Public relations also needs tweaking by choosing Honesty or Hype. Each decision has an effect on his company image. Finally, the player will have to evaluate his potential market depending on the time of year and decide how many advertising pages to buy. Markets are larger around Christmas and New Year. It is then time to sit back and look at the sales figures as the player's game enters the Top 20. He is then given a sales break even figure and each game climbs the chart if it sells well to the Number One spot.\n\nAt the end of the month the player views your monthly statement to check his progress and Stardom rating ranging from Nobody to Software Star. At the end of the year, the directors will check the player's progress. They will either fire him, raise the bar, or give him another chance.\n\nTo become a software Star and to avoid bankruptcy.\n\n\nZzap!64 thought the game was a disappointing follow-up to Football Manager, with too little to do for the player and less feeling of control. It received a rating of 43%.\n\n"}
{"id": "30876528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876528", "title": "Surface bargaining", "text": "Surface bargaining\n\nIn collective bargaining, surface bargaining is a strategy in which one of the parties \"merely goes through the motions,\" with no intention of reaching an agreement. In this regard, it is a form of bad faith bargaining.\n\nDistinguishing surface bargaining from good faith bargaining is extremely difficult. The entire history of the negotiations must be assessed, including the party's intent, efforts made toward reaching an agreement, and any behavior which may be seen as inhibiting the bargaining process. Surface bargaining tactics may include making proposals the other party could never accept, taking inflexible or unreasonable stands on issues, and/or refusing to offer alternatives to proposals. Reneging on agreements already reached during the collective bargaining process, raising new issues late in the negotiations, or failing to follow generally accepted procedures for collective bargaining may also be seen as signs of surface bargaining.\n\nBased upon the \"totality\" of a party's actions during collective bargaining, surface bargaining may be found if there was a purposeful effort to avoid or frustrate mutual agreement. Under U.S. law, it is an Unfair labor practice and a breach of the duty to bargain in good faith.\nSurface bargaining is barred under the labor law of many countries. Federal and provincial Canadian labor law bars surface bargaining, and Canadian courts have held that the test for determining surface bargaining is to look at the totality of the negotiations. In New Zealand, surface bargaining is a violation of the Employment Relations Act 2000 (as amended). A \"Code of Good Faith\" promulgated by the Employment Relations Authority supplements the legal statute, however, and lays out a number of rules for good faith bargaining. In the United States, surface bargaining constitutes an unfair labor practice under the National Labor Relations Act. American courts have held that \"hard bargaining\" (taking a firmly held and well-explained position), failing to make a concession, and/or failing to reach an agreement do not constitute surface bargaining under federal labor law. Additional evidence, such as away-from-the-table statements or behavior, is needed to prove surface bargaining in the U.S.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25372440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25372440", "title": "Thomas Kaplan", "text": "Thomas Kaplan\n\nThomas S. Kaplan (born 1962) is an American billionaire businessman, investor, philanthropist and art collector. An admirer of Rembrandt, Kaplan is known as the world's largest private collector of the Dutch master's works.\n\nKaplan is the chairman and chief investment officer of The Electrum Group LLC, a New York City-based investment, advisory and asset management firm with a focus on the natural resources sector. Since 2017, he has been the chairman of the International Alliance for the Protection of Heritage in Conflict Areas (ALIPH), a Geneva-based foundation established by France and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nBorn in New York City, Kaplan was raised in a Jewish family in Florida, the son of Lillian Jean and Jason \"Jay\" Kaplan.\n\nIn his youth, he developed a passion for wildlife conservation and for Rembrandt, which decades later inspired him, respectively, to found the felid conservation group Panthera, and to establish The Leiden Collection, the world's largest private grouping of works from the Dutch Golden Age. At Oxford University, Kaplan earned bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in history. He wrote his doctoral dissertation on the Malayan counterinsurgency and the manner in which commodities influence strategic planning. While earning his PhD, he worked as an analyst covering Israeli companies publicly traded in the US. On a business trip, he met his future wife, Dafna Recanati (the daughter of Israeli investor Leon Recanati), who had attended the same boarding school as Kaplan. Dafna's mother, artist Mira Recanati, introduced him to Israeli investor Avi Tiomkin, who hired him as a junior partner in 1991. Kaplan had impressed Tiomkin by correctly predicting Saddam Hussein's 1990 invasion of Kuwait several years before it took place. When Tiomkin decided to concentrate his investments solely in Israel in 1993, Kaplan moved on to pursue his own entrepreneurial ventures.\n\nInspired by Marc Faber, who held that precious metals were insurance against the \"monetary foolishness\" of central governments, Kaplan focused on natural resources investing. In 1993, he founded Apex Silver Mines to capitalize on the improving supply/demand fundamentals of metals. While he was chairman and chief executive officer of Apex, his team discovered and financed the San Cristobal deposit in Bolivia, now one of the largest producers of silver and zinc in the world. Kaplan retired from Apex Silver at the end of 2004 to focus on his new exploration projects.\n\nIn 2003, a company related to Kaplan became the largest investor in African Platinum Plc (then known as Southern African Resources Plc), enabling it to explore and develop one of the largest platinum group metals projects in South Africa. In 2007, Kaplan sold his position in African Platinum as part of a transaction in which the company was acquired by Impala Platinum Limited, at a valuation of $580 million.\n\nAlso in 2003, Kaplan founded Leor Exploration & Production LLC, which became the fastest-growing privately held hydrocarbon exploration and production company in the United States. In 2007, Leor’s natural gas assets were sold to EnCana Oil & Gas (USA) Inc. for $2.55 billion.\n\nKaplan first began investing heavily in gold in 2000. Since the sales of African Platinum and Leor in 2007, Kaplan has focused on the Electrum Group. Its exploration arm, Electrum Ltd., which he co-founded with Dr. Larry Buchanan, owns a diversified international portfolio of gold exploration assets. Its other entities hold significant interests in several publicly traded companies, including NovaGold Resources Inc. and Gabriel Resources Ltd., two companies that own several of the largest proven gold resources in the world. Among its private interests, the Electrum Group is the controlling shareholder of Sunshine Silver Mining & Refining Corporation, which owns the Sunshine Mine in Idaho, the most prolific silver mine in US history, as well as the Los Gatos silver-zinc deposit in Mexico, which it is developing in partnership with Dowa of Japan.\n\nAs a leading investor in gold, Kaplan is credited with correctly predicting that gold prices would increase. His investment strategy and commitment to gold led \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" to refer to him as \"Gold's Evangelist.\"\n\nKaplan's passion for the Dutch masters began in his early childhood. Kaplan and his wife, Dafna Recanati Kaplan, began to collect the art of the Dutch Golden Age in 2003. Their Leiden Collection is now among the largest private assemblages of Dutch art in the world, and numbers more than 250 paintings and drawings, most of which are included in a free, high-resolution online catalogue. The Kaplans' intention was to establish a \"lending library for old masters\", including loans for special exhibitions as well as loans to bolster long-term installations.\n\nThe Collection focuses on Rembrandt and his School, illuminating the personalities and themes that shaped the Golden Age over five generations. How the Collection developed is explained in Kaplan's personal account of the journey: \"A Portrait in Oil\". At the core of the Collection is a group of fourteen paintings and two drawings by Rembrandt himself, and key members of his circle including his teacher, Pieter Lastman, and studio-mate Jan Lievens. It includes arounds 250 paintings and drawings, mainly by 17th-century artists based in Leiden. This includes thirteen paintings from all phases of the career of Gerard Dou, as well as \"A Young Woman Seated at the Virginals\" (1670–1672) by Johannes Vermeer and \"Hagar and the Angel\" by Carel Fabritius. A catalogue of the Dou works in the collection, with technical analyses, appeared in 2014. In January 2017 an online catalogue of the collection went live, with information on over 175 of the works in the collection.\n\nAt a 2015 auction in Bloomfield, New Jersey a European bidder bought \"The Fainting Patient\" or \"Smell\" for $870,000, though its pre-auction estimate had only been $800. This was identified as an early work by Rembrandt, dating to 1624 and belonging to his \"The Five Senses\" series. The Leiden collection then immediately acquired the work for $5 million, which was publicised in 2016. Prior to the purchase the collection already owned \"Hearing\" and \"Touch\" from the series, whilst \"Sight\" is in the Museum De Lakenhal in Leiden and the whereabouts of \"Taste\" is unknown. \"Smell\" bears Rembrandt's monogram (RF or RHF, \"Rembrandt Harmensz. fecit\"), representing the master's earliest known signature, and is similar in dimensions and style to the other known works in the series. The three Leiden Collection works were exhibited at the Getty Museum in 2016, and the complete extant set of four were reunited for shows at the Ashmolean Museum and Rembrandthuis in 2017.\n\nNotable past and upcoming exhibitions of the Leiden Collection include:\n\nKaplan is the executive chairman of Panthera Corporation, a charity which he and his wife co-founded with Dr. Alan Rabinowitz in 2006. Panthera is devoted to preserving the big cats and their ecosystems and has been recognized as a leading force in felid conservation. Conservationist Doug Tompkins has referred to Panthera as \"the foremost big cat conservation organization in the world,\" with \"National Geographic\" saying Panthera \"represents the most comprehensive effort of its kind in wildcat conservation.\" For his work as an environmentalist, Kaplan was the recipient of the \"Hero of the Year Award\" by the IWFF in 2012.\n\nKaplan and his wife Dafna helped establish a globally recognized felid conservation program at Oxford University in collaboration with Dr. David MacDonald. In 2009, the couple endowed the Recanati-Kaplan Center at Oxford University's Wildlife Conservation Research Unit, the WildCRU, and the university's Postgraduate Diploma in International Wildlife Conservation Practice, which offers young conservationists from developing countries access to training at Oxford. In February 2012, Oxford's WildCRU was awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher Education in recognition of WildCRU's outstanding work in wildlife and environmental conservation.\n\nThe Kaplans also founded the Orianne Society, focused on the conservation of the eastern indigo snake and its habitat, the last remaining long-leaf pine forests of the Southeastern United States. As part of this effort, the Kaplans created the Orianne Indigo Snake Preserve in Georgia through the purchase and donation of 2,500 acres of the snake’s winter habitat. In recognition for their work in wildlife conservation, in 2014 the Kaplans were awarded the New Species Award, and the naming of the newly discovered Orianne's Tree Snake, by the African Rainforest Conservancy.\n\nKaplan is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He also belongs to the International Council of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University, where Kaplan, scholar Graham Allison and American General David Petraeus created the Recanati–Kaplan Foundation Fellows Program for intelligence officers from around the globe. All applicants must come with the personal recommendation of their agency heads.\n\nKaplan served as president (2009–2012) and chairman of the board of directors (2012–2015) of the 92nd Street Y, a prominent Jewish community and cultural center in New York City. His wife Daphne and Robert Gilson conceived of the Recanati–Kaplan Program for Excellence in the Arts, which funds scholarships based on artistic merit for children and teens to study at the 92Y's School of the Arts.\n\nIn 2015, after the passing of his boyhood friend, Simon Marsh, Kaplan parted with the two Spitfire Mark I fighter planes that he and Marsh had as partners restored with Historic Flying of Duxford, Cambridgeshire. The first of the planes, Spitfire N3200, was gifted in the presence of Prince William, the Duke of Cambridge, to the Imperial War Museum at Duxford, where it had last flown as the personal aircraft of the Commander of 19 Squadron, Geoffrey Dalton Stephenson, later personal pilot to King George VI. The second, Spitfire P9374, flown by Captain Peter Cazenove over Dunkirk, was sold at auction at Christies London, where it achieved a record price for any spitfire at auction, the proceeds of which were donated for the benefit of the RAF Benevolent Society, Panthera, Oxford's WildCRU and Stop Ivory.\n\nIn 2017, Kaplan became the chairman of the International Alliance for the Protection of Heritage in Conflict Areas (ALIPH), a Geneva-based foundation dedicated to the implementation of preventive, emergency response, and restoration programs for cultural property in danger of destruction, damage or looting. A joint initiative of the governments of France and the United Arab Emirates, its board of directors includes representatives of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Egypt, Morocco, China, international institutions, and private donors.\n\nIn March 2014, Kaplan was awarded the rank of \"Chevalier\" in the \"Ordre national de la Légion d'honneur\" of France, the country's highest civilian distinction. In presenting the decoration, the French Ambassador to the United States, François Delattre, said of Kaplan: \"Through your multifaceted life and your support for an incredible array of causes, I believe you are the very definition of a game changer and Renaissance man - a young Renaissance man: as Chairman of the Y, as an environmentalist in Brazil, as an entrepreneur, a historian, a philanthropist, an art collector and a politically engaged individual.\"\n\nIn March 2017, Kaplan was decorated as a \"Commandeur\" in the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by France's Minister of Culture, Audrey Azoulay, at a ceremony at the Louvre Museum. The award was given in recognition of the Kaplan family’s contribution to the arts in France as well as globally.\n\nIn September 2018, Kaplan was awarded the rank of Officer in the Order of Orange-Nassau for his efforts in disseminating Dutch culture and building bridges between people through art. Renée Jones-Bos, Ambassador of the Netherlands to Russia, presented the distinction to Kaplan in the Saint Petersburg office of Mikhail Piotrovsky, Director of the Hermitage Museum.\n\nThomas Kaplan is married to Dafna Recanati Kaplan, daughter of Israeli artist Mira Recanati and investor Leon Recanati. They have three children.\n"}
{"id": "12574298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12574298", "title": "Thomas Walker (slave trader)", "text": "Thomas Walker (slave trader)\n\nThomas Walker (1758–1797) (a.k.a. Beau Walker) was a British slave trader. \n\nThomas Walker was born 1758 in Henbury, now a suburb of Bristol, England. \n\nWalker worked as a slave trader, when Bristol was one of the three major slave trading ports in Britain. He served as a slave ship Captain and was resident slave trader who operated in the Sierra Leone region of West Africa.\n\nHe did much of his slave trading at Bunce Island, a British slave castle in the Sierra Leone River, owned at that time by the Company of John & Alexander Anderson, based in London. He was involved in at least eleven slave trading voyages between 1784 and 1792, taking African captives from Sierra Leone to the British West Indies and the United States.\n\nOn 22 February 1785, Walker married Catherine McLelland (1770–1806) at St. Andrew's Church in Clifton. She died on 18 October 1806, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a decade after her husband, leaving their older son as the guardian for his sister and a younger son, George E. Walker (1797–1864).\n\nWalker was murdered in 1797 at sea in a mutiny. He is an ancestor of two U.S. presidents, George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush.\n\n"}
{"id": "502887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=502887", "title": "University of Maryland, Baltimore", "text": "University of Maryland, Baltimore\n\nThe University of Maryland, Baltimore, (also known as the University of Maryland or UMB) is a public university in Baltimore, Maryland. Founded in 1807, it comprises some of the oldest professional schools of dentistry, law, medicine, pharmacy, social work and nursing in the United States. It is the original campus of the University System of Maryland and has a strategic partnership with the University of Maryland, College Park. Located on 60 acres (242,811 m²) on the west side of downtown Baltimore, it is part of the University System of Maryland. Effective July 1, 2010, Jay A. Perman was appointed president of the university by William English Kirwan, chancellor of the University System of Maryland. \n\nIn 2012, the University of Maryland, Baltimore and the flagship University of Maryland, College Park united under the MPowering the State initiative to leverage the strengths of both institutions. The University of Maryland Strategic Partnership Act of 2016 officially formalized the partnership as it has successfully created more innovative medical, scientific, and educational programs in Baltimore, as well as been awarded greater research grants and joint faculty appointments. In 2018, UMB ranked #1 in Maryland, and 15th in the country, in average salary of alumni, based on College Scorecard data released by the U.S. Department of Education\n\nUM comprises seven professional schools:\n\nThe University of Maryland at Baltimore was founded in 1807 as the Maryland College of Medicine. In 1812, it was rechartered as the University of Maryland and given the authority to establish additional faculties in law, divinity, and arts and sciences. The faculty of law was founded in 1816, though it operated intermittently until 1868. The faculty of arts and sciences known as the Baltimore College for undergraduates also operated intermittently in the early 19th century. From 1907 to 1920, St. John's College in Annapolis functioned as the University of Maryland's faculty of arts and sciences; this loose federation was dissolved in 1920 when the Maryland State College, (the former Maryland Agricultural College), founded 1856, as the state's land grant college, became part of a larger University of Maryland with the graduate level professional schools on the westside of downtown Baltimore. In 1970, the General Assembly of Maryland (state legislature) established a five-campus University of Maryland network comprising the \n\n\nwith a system-wide president located in College Park and a chancellor in charge of each campus; in 1988 this institution was merged with the State University and College System of Maryland (of former normal and state teachers colleges, now wider liberal arts schools since the 1960s) to form the new University System of Maryland.\n\nThe University of Maryland School of Dentistry was the first dental school in the world. Founded in 1840 as the Baltimore College of Dental Surgery (BCDS), it was chartered by an act of the Maryland General Assembly. Its principal founders were Drs. Horace H. Hayden and Chapin A. Harris. It was the first school in the world to offer a science-based curriculum in dentistry. It currently ranks among top 10 in the nation to receive NIH research funding. The school moved to a new building in October 2006. The new building, located adjacent to the old one in Baltimore Street, offers some of the newest facilities and technologies in the world for education and patient care. The cost of construction and equipment was over $140 million USD, the highest spent by the state of Maryland on an academic building.\n\nThe University of Maryland School of Law opened in 1816 as the \"Maryland Law Institute\" \"in a spacious and commodious building on South Street, near Market street.\" (later renamed East Baltimore Street) It is the third-oldest law school in the nation. It was founded by \nDavid Hoffman, who authored a comprehensive course of legal study that had a lasting influence on other law school programs around the country and led to the development of legal ethics programs and responsibilities. The law school moved to a new building of English Tudor Revival architecture replacing its earlier modernistic structure on the same site at the northwest corner of West Baltimore and North Paca Streets in 2002, adjacent to the site to the north of the old Westminster Presbyterian Church and old Western Burying Grounds facing West Fayette and North Greene Streets (first laid out in 1787, on which the later church was built on top of resting on brick arched piers in 1852), the cemetery where the famous poet and writer Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849) is buried. It is the only law school in the United States with a famous author buried on its campus. The former restored church building, now known as Westminster Hall is used for campus events and lectures and is often requested for wedding and other social ceremonies.\n\nThe University of Maryland School of Law was ranked 48th among law schools according to the 2017 edition of \"U.S. News & World Report\" law school rankings and was also ranked among the top 10 programs for health law, clinical law and environmental law. The School of Law's students' undergraduate median GPA is a 3.47 and median Law School Admissions Test (LSAT) score is a 158. It admits 52.4% of applicants. The law school takes about 225 full-time day students and about 50 evening students per year.\n\nThe current Dean of the School of Law is Donald Tobin, one of the nation’s leading experts on the intersection of tax and campaign finance laws.\n\nEstablished in 1807 as the College of Medicine of Maryland, University of Maryland School of Medicine (UMB SOM) was the first public medical school in the United States and it is the fifth oldest medical school in the country. The campus includes Davidge Hall, designed by Robert Cary Long, Sr. in the style of the Pantheon in Rome, which was built in 1812 at the northeast corner of West Lombard and South Greene Streets, on the west side of downtown Baltimore, and is the oldest building in continuous use for medical education in the Hemisphere. UMB SOM was ranked 40th in \"U.S. News and World Report\" magazines 2016 rankings of \"Best Medical Schools: Research\" and 65th in \"Best Medical Schools: Primary Care\".\n\nThe School of Medicine is closely affiliated with the University of Maryland Medical Center and Medical System. It houses the Department of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Sciences (PTRS), the Department of Medical and Research Technology (DMRT), and two research institutes, the Institute of Human Virology (IHV) and the Institute for Genome Sciences (IGS). It also offers PhD programs through the Graduate Program in Life Sciences and several combined degree programs: the MD/PhD MSTP (Medical Scientist Training Program), the MD/MPH (Master of Public Health), and an MD/ in Public Health.\n\nIn a 2011 article in \"Forbes\" magazine, Steven Salzberg criticized the school's inclusion of pseudoscientific subjects such as homeopathy in the curriculum. According to Salzberg, the school is \"mis-training medical students\" by teaching courses in integrative medicine.\n\nThe University of Maryland School of Nursing (UMSON), founded in 1889 by Florence Nightingale-trained nurse Louisa Parsons, is one of the oldest and largest nursing schools in the United States. In the magazine, the University of Maryland School of Nursing was ranked 6th nationally.\n\nThe UMSON building, which opened in November 1998, shares an urban campus on the west side of downtown Baltimore with five nearby professional schools — Dentistry, Law, Medicine, Pharmacy and Social Work — as well as the University of Maryland Medical System (formerly University of Maryland Hospital) and the U.S. Veterans Affairs Medical Center. The campus is a national leader in health sciences research, with $256 million in grants and contracts in fiscal year 2001.\n\nUMSON has pioneered a variety of innovative educational programs, including the first nursing informatics program in the world and the nation’s first nursing health policy program. More than 20 specialties are offered at the graduate level, including trauma/critical-care, oncology, gerontology, psychiatric/mental health nursing, and nursing administration. In 1999, the School of Nursing became the only school in Maryland to offer a midwifery program, pre-accredited by the American College of Nurse Midwives. Nurse practitioner options are also offered in family, pediatrics, women’s health, neonatal intensive care, adult primary care, acute care and geriatrics.\n\nA variety of flexible and combined programs are offered to accelerate degree completion. These include the second bachelor's degree option, the RN to BSN online program, the RN to MS program, the post-baccalaureate entry option into the PhD program, and the MS/MBA and PhD/MBA programs offered in conjunction with the University of Baltimore; Frostburg State University; and the Robert H. Smith School of Business, at the University of Maryland, College Park. Partnership programs for BSN completion join the School of Nursing with the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, the University of Maryland, College Park, Washington College in Chestertown, Maryland, on the Eastern Shore of the Chesapeake Bay, as well as all of Maryland's community colleges.\n\nTo provide clinical programs for students, UMSON maintains affiliations with more than 300 hospitals and health care agencies throughout Maryland. In addition, within the School of Nursing building are clinical simulation laboratories for hands-on training in a real-life setting.\n\nUMSON offers a wide range of courses at off-campus locations. Students can enroll at numerous outreach sites throughout the state, permitting residents in remote, educationally under-served areas to complete undergraduate and graduate degrees in nursing. Linking regional, national and international audiences, the School incorporates the most advanced classroom and laboratory design, as well as modern distance learning communications technology, to provide a state-of-the-art education experience.\n\nThe University of Maryland School of Nursing Living History Museum, which opened in October 1999, examines the history of the nursing profession from its earliest days to present day.\n\nThe University of Maryland School of Pharmacy, founded in 1841, is the fourth oldest school of pharmacy in the nation and was the first pharmacy school established in Maryland. The School of Pharmacy comprises three departments, Pharmacy Practice and Science, Pharmaceutical Sciences, and Pharmaceutical Health Services Research. The school admitted 11.4% of applicants for the 2006-2007 school year. According to the most recent pharmacy school rankings, The University of Maryland School of Pharmacy was ranked 9th among pharmacy schools in the 2016 edition of U.S. News & World Report.\n\nThe University of Maryland School of Social Work is a top program in social work education. Graduates of the School of Social Work have become policymakers at all levels of government, from the U.S. Senate to the state and federal courts, to the State Department and departments of social services. Graduates also work as educators and researchers at universities across the country and have become therapists, community organizers, and managers. According to the most recent rankings, The University of Maryland School of Social Work was ranked 18th among schools of social work in the 2008 edition of U.S. News & World Report and 16th in 2012.\n\nThe UMB Graduate School was founded in 1918. It offers 43 degree programs in total and oversees the partnership between UMB and the University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC) with additional programs that span across both institutions.\n\nThe University of Maryland, Baltimore has two main libraries on its campus: the Health Sciences & Human Services Library (HS/HSL) and the Thurgood Marshall Law Library.\n\nUMB's Health Sciences & Human Services Library (HS/HSL) was founded in 1813 from the collection of Doctor John Crawford, a former British naval surgeon. Dr. Crawford's initial donation of books remains within the library's Historical Collections department as the Crawford Collection (comprising some 569 items). The first location of the library was the Provost's Office within the original medical school building, now known as Davidge Hall. Under the leadership of its first official library, Dr. Eugene F. Cordell (who served as library director from 1903-1913), the library grew rapidly, incorporating book collections from the schools of pharmacy and dentistry, and moving into its own building, a former church on the southeast corner of Lombard and Green Streets. The church was later razed in 1957 to make way for a new library that began construction in 1958 and opened in 1960. The library has since moved, in 1998, into a large modern building. The HS/HSL offers 45 group study rooms, 3 computer classrooms, several conference rooms with the web conferencing capability, and the Presentation Practice Studio, in addition to many study carrels and a number of public computers in a five-story building. In March, 2015, it opened the new Innovation Space designed for innovative and collaborative hands-on learning experience with 3D printers and 3D scanners.\n\nThe Thurgood Marshall Law Library, named for Baltimore native and Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, is the law library for the University of Maryland School of Law. The Marshall Law Library is found inside the law school's building, accessible through the main entrance. The Thurgood Marshall Law Library contains over 400,000 volumes of Anglo-American legal materials as well as outstanding international and foreign law collections. Extensive collections of both primary sources and secondary materials such as treatises are available. The library is open to all faculty, staff and students on the campuses of the University System of Maryland; University of Maryland School of Law alumni; attorneys; and members of the general public.\n\nThe professional schools housed at the University of Maryland, Baltimore, may also simply use the name \"University of Maryland\" when describing themselves even though the University of Maryland, College Park, also refers to itself simply as the University of Maryland. There is relatively little confusion resulting from the shared name because the University of Maryland, College Park, offers largely research-oriented graduate programs and houses fewer professional schools. The University of Maryland, Baltimore, does not offer NCAA sports. Although this university mainly offers graduate and professional study, it also offers a few undergraduate courses, which include nursing, dental hygiene and medical technology. By law and tradition each school is entitled to use the \"University of Maryland\" name in recognition of their shared history. While both schools are institutions which belong to the University System of Maryland, neither is a part of the other.\n\nThe University of Maryland, Baltimore, is also often mistaken for the University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC), which is a separate University System of Maryland institution located in the town of Catonsville, outside the City of Baltimore.\n\nThe campus is composed of 58 buildings located near Camden Yards and Baltimore's famous Lexington Market. Construction on a new campus center began at the start of 2007 and opened in August 2009 as the Southern Management Corporation Campus Center (SMC Center). The SMC Center contains dining facilities, meeting locations and the campus's gymnasium and recreation facility, URecFit. UMB has also recently undertaken a vast west campus expansion. This project, known as BioPark, will create ten new buildings containing a total of of classroom, lab, and office space. In addition, University of Maryland Medical System has cleared a downtown site for the construction of a $329 million ambulatory care center.\n\nThe university is served by the University Center/Baltimore Street station of the Baltimore Light Rail system, which is at the eastern edge of campus. The Orange Route of the free Charm City Circulator provides service to both the BioPark and through the UMB campus to the Inner Harbor and points east.\n\nStarting with the 2012-2013 school year, the University launched a new shuttle bus service for university students, staff, and faculty and University of Maryland Medical Center employees free of charge. The shuttle runs 3 routes from the university to West Baltimore (the new BioPark center), Federal Hill, and Mount Vernon.\n\nThe university is protected through the University of Maryland, Baltimore Police Department. The UMB Police department is a state- and nationally accredited police agency providing law enforcement services to the UMB campus and surrounding communities. Through an agreement signed between the UMB Police Department and the Baltimore Police Department, UMB Police officers have the same jurisdiction and authority as Baltimore Police officers throughout the campus of the university. The UMB police force is composed of both sworn officers and unarmed security guards who are located in university-owned buildings to control access to the buildings and for other security purposes. The UMB Police force also provides escort services to students and university personnel throughout the campus, either through an escort vehicle, or a walking escort by an officer.\n\nGovernors\n\nU.S. Senators\n\nU.S. Congressmen\n\nState Senators\n\nState Delegates\n\nJudges\n\nOthers\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10018544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10018544", "title": "Venture management", "text": "Venture management\n\nVenture management is a business management discipline that focuses on being both innovative and challenging in the realm of introducing what could be a completely new product or entering a promising newly emerging market.\n\nThe discipline is focused on the skills, practices and technology required to manage the rapid growth of new business in highly dynamic environments. These environments are often characterized by rapid technology change.\n\nReacting on more volatile and basically unknown or immature markets, Venture management is by design opportunity driven and reactive on generated market data and consumer behaviour. In contrast to business plan-driven traditional management concepts, venture marketing is iterative and experimental, operating on short recurring cycles of implementation and adaptation.\nVenture management techniques apply equally well to venture capital-funded firms, self-financed firms, and business entities that are managed with a large degree of independence within a large established firm.\n\n"}
{"id": "30351118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30351118", "title": "Yeshe Choesang", "text": "Yeshe Choesang\n\nYeshe Choesang is a India-based Tibetan journalist, photographer and author who focuses on politics, Freedom of press, business, human rights and environmental issues in Tibet and China.\n\nYeshe Choesang (Tibetan: ཡེ་ཤེས་ཆོས་བཟང་། Chinese: 益西曲桑 Hindi: यीशि छोसं), pronounced [ˈyeːshey ˈchoe: Zang]), born in 1974 in Lithang Region in eastern Tibet, is a Tibetan journalist, founder and editor in chief of The Tibet Post, an exiled Tibetan news Agency based in Dharamsala, India.\n\nMr Choesang was born on 18 August 1974 in the Lithang Region in eastern Tibet, (Currently administratively part of Sichuan province, China). He escaped to India in 1985.\n\nHe completed his education in Tibetan culture and religion (The \"Rigne Rabjam\") in 1993 and a teacher training course of the Tibetan Education Department in 1995. He completed his B.A. in Tibetan Buddhist Philosophy from the Institute of Buddhist Dialectics (IBD).\n\nIn 2000, he was the assistant editor of \"How To Teach\", a bilingual teacher training book series in Tibetan and English for Tibetan teachers. For 4 years, he worked as a researcher in World History at the Research & Translation Centre (Lhaksam Tsekpa) of IBD.\n\nChoesang wrote several articles in the past 10 years that were published by Tibet Post, CNN iReport, Deliberation, and World News Network.\n\nChoesang has written a book titled \"Voice of An Exiled Tibetan: Hopes of freedom and struggle\" was published in 2014.\nHe is writing a second book, but title yet to be named.\n\nHe was elected thrice as the General Secretary of the Association of Tibetan Journalists based in Dharamsala. He is the Tibet Correspondent for Reporters Without Borders since 2005.\n\nIn 2007 Choesang founded The Tibet Post International (TPI), a daily Tibetan news agency based in McLeod Ganj, Dharamsala. Other than this, he has also founded several other websites, like outlooktibet.com, shambalapost.com and lhasapost.com. The office of TPI was inaugurated on 11 May 2008 by Franz Pahl, a member of South Tyrolean People's Party and President of the regional parliament of South Tyrol in Italy.\n\nIn 2010, he also founded Himalayan Literacy Trust (HLT) in India.\n\nWith HLT and TPI Choesang aims to develop Tibetan media and education in a peaceful and non-violent manner. His organisations also function as a platform to enable future development of Tibetan journalism, doing so by coordinating a group of young Tibetan journalists with the primary goal of promoting democracy through freedom of expression within Tibetan communities, both in exile and under occupation in Tibet.\n\nWith TPI Choesang works in cooperation with non-governmental organizations and individuals around the world as well as with the various departments of the Central Tibetan Administration while dealing at the same time with individuals and societies in various Tibetan settlements and schools.\n\n"}
