{"id": "33929722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33929722", "title": "Andaquí", "text": "Andaquí\n\nThe Andaquí are an indigenous people of Colombia, who live in the Upper Caquetá River Basin, the Fragua Valley of Cauca Department, and the Suaza Valley of southwest Huila Department.\n\nThe Andaquí, sometimes written \"Andakí\" are also known as the Aguanunga or Churuba.\n\nThe Andakí are first mentioned in the texts of the Spanish conquistadors in the late 16th century, several decades after the uprisings against the Spanish initiated under the leadership of La Cacica Gaitana in 1536, that united the Yalcon, Nasa, Timaná and other indigenous nations from the Upper Magdalena Valley. In 1637, conquistador Francisco Dias was attacked by the Andakí and Pijao, which was reported in an act of the cabildo of Timaná on January 28 of that year. The Andakí resistance to colonization lasted until the 18th century and a 1721 uprising included all of the indigenous nations, such as the Andakí, Tama and Mocoa, of Putumayo and Caquetá.\n\nThe Andakí language has been documented having two different recorded vocabularies. The first vocabulary is from an anonymous author from 1788 published in \"Lenguas de America\" (1928) and another recompilation by Manuel María Abis, published in 1855. Based on these works, Rivet (1924) classified Andakí as a Chibcha language. Though that classification was supported by some experts, others consider Andakí as a language isolate or without classification and others group it with Páez or other languages from the Amazonian foothills such Astinigua, Camsá and Cofán.\n\nCurrently Andaki communities survive in rural Acevedo, Huila and Belén de los Andaquíes, Caqueta, in the areas of the Pescado and Fragua Rivers, though these communities do not conserve their language. These communities are not recognized by the Colombian government though are documented by the National Indigenous Organization of Colombia as Andakí communities. According to elders from the Inga People that now live in part of what was the ancestral Andakí territory, they insist that there are still Andaquí in the forests below the Fragua peaks in the south of Cauca that refuse contact. Documents from the 19th century cite that area as the last known area of the jungle inhabited by the Andaquí.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3354802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3354802", "title": "Antifeminism", "text": "Antifeminism\n\nAntifeminism (also spelt anti-feminism) is broadly defined as opposition to some or all forms of feminism. This opposition has taken various forms across time and cultures. For example, antifeminists in the late 19th century and early 20th century resisted women's suffrage, while antifeminists in the late 20th century in the United States opposed the Equal Rights Amendment. Others, particularly in the 21st century, see antifeminism as a response to an ideology rooted in hostility towards men.\n\nSociologist Michael Flood argues that an antifeminist ideology rejects at least one of the following general principles of feminism:\n\n\nCanadian sociologists Melissa Blais and Francis Dupuis-Déri write that antifeminist thought has primarily taken the form of an extreme version of masculinism, in which \"men are in crisis because of the feminization of society\".\n\nThe term \"antifeminist\" is also used to describe public female figures, some of whom (such as Naomi Wolf, Camille Paglia, and Kate Roiphe) define themselves as feminists, based on their opposition to some or all elements of feminist movements. Other feminists label writers such as Christina Hoff Sommers, Jean Bethke Elshtain, Katie Roiphe and Elizabeth Fox-Genovese with this term because of their positions regarding oppression and lines of thought within feminism.\n\nThe meaning of antifeminism has varied across time and cultures, and antifeminism attracts both men and women. Some women, like those in the Women's National Anti-Suffrage League, campaigned against women's suffrage.\n\nMen's studies scholar Michael Kimmel defines antifeminism as \"the opposition to women's equality\". He says that antifeminists oppose \"women's entry into the public sphere, the re-organization of the private sphere, women's control of their bodies, and women's rights generally.\" Kimmel further writes that antifeminist argumentation relies on \"religious and cultural norms\" while proponents of antifeminism advance their cause as a means of \"'saving' masculinity from pollution and invasion\". He argues that antifeminists consider the \"traditional gender division of labor as natural and inevitable, perhaps also divinely sanctioned.\"\n\nSome antifeminists view feminism as a denial of innate differences between the genders, and an attempt to reprogram people against their biological tendencies. Antifeminists also frequently argue that feminism, despite claiming to espouse equality, ignores rights issues unique to men. Some believe that the feminist movement has achieved its aims and now seeks higher status for women than for men via special rights and exemptions, such as female-only scholarships, affirmative action, and gender quotas.\n\nSome antifeminists have argued that feminism has resulted in changes to society's previous norms relating to sexuality, which they see as detrimental to traditional values or conservative religious beliefs. For example, the ubiquity of casual sex and the decline of marriage are mentioned as negative consequences of feminism. Some of these traditionalists oppose women's entry into the workforce, political office, and the voting process, as well as the lessening of male authority in families. Antifeminists argue that a change of women's roles is a destructive force that endangers the family, or is contrary to religious morals. For example, Paul Gottfried maintains that the change of women's roles \"has been a social disaster that continues to take its toll on the family\" and contributed to a \"descent by increasingly disconnected individuals into social chaos\".\n\nThe \"women's movement\" began in 1848, most famously articulated by Elizabeth Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, asking for voting rights and many other rights, such as education, job liberties, marital and property rights, and the right to choose whether to be a mother or not. However, by the end of the century, a cultural counter movement had begun. Janet Chafetz identified in a study 32 first-wave antifeminist movements, including those in the 19th century and early 20th century movements. These countermovements were in response to some women's growing demands, which were perceived as threatening to the standard way of life. Though men were not the only antifeminists, men experienced what some have called a \"crisis of masculinity\" in response to traditional gender roles being challenged. Men's responses to increased feminism varied. Some men even subscribed to feminist ideology, but others went the other direction and became decidedly antifeminist. The men who believed in this model cited religious models and natural law to emphasize women's need to return to the private sphere, in order to separate men and women to keep women from outwardly challenging men in public.\n\nIn the 19th century, one of the major focal points of antifeminism was opposition to women's suffrage, which began as a grassroots movement in 1848 and spanned for 72 years. Opponents of women's entry into institutions of higher learning argued that education was too great a physical burden on women. In \"Sex in Education: or, a Fair Chance for the Girls\" (1873), Harvard professor Edward Clarke predicted that if women went to college, their brains would grow bigger and heavier, and their wombs would atrophy. Other antifeminists opposed women's entry into the labor force, their right to join unions, to sit on juries, or to obtain birth control and control of their sexuality.\n\nThe pro-family movement appeared in the late 19th century, by about 1870. This movement was intended to halt the rising divorce rate and reinforce traditional family values. The National League for the Protection of the Family, formerly known as the Divorce Reform League, took over the movement in 1881. Samuel Dike was one of the founders of the League, and was considered an early expert on divorce. Through his efforts, the League garnered attention from pro-family advocates. It underwent a shift from fighting against divorce to promoting marriage and traditional family. Speaking on behalf of the League in an 1887 address to the Evangelical Alliance Conference, Samuel Dike described the ideal family as having \"one man and one woman, united in wedlock, together with their children\". This movement built the foundation for many pro-family arguments in contemporary antifeminism.\n\nWomen's suffrage was achieved in 1920, and early 20th century antifeminism was primarily focused on fighting this. Suffragists scoffed at antisuffragists. Anna Howard Shaw, president of the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA) from 1904 to 1915, presumed, perhaps unfairly, that the antisuffragists were merely working under the influence of male forces. Later historians tended to dismiss antisuffragists as subscribing to the model of domestic idealism, that a woman's place is in the home. This undermines and belittles the true power and numbers behind the antisuffrage movement, which was primarily led by women themselves. Arguments employed by antisuffragists at the turn of the century had less to do with a woman's place in the home as much as it had to do with a woman's proper place in the public realm. In fact, leaders of the movement often encouraged other women to leave the home and participate in society. What they opposed was women participating in the political sphere.\n\nThere were two reasons antisuffragists opposed women participating in the political realm. Some argued that women were already overburdened. The majority of them, however, argued that a woman's participation in the political realm would hinder her participation in social and civic duties. If they won the right to vote, women would consequently have to align with a particular party, which would destroy her ability to be politically neutral. Antisuffragists feared this would, in fact, hinder their influence with legislative authorities.\n\nIn 1951, two journalists published \"Washington Confidential.\" The novel claimed that Communist leaders used their men and women to recruit a variety of minorities in the nation's capital, such as females, colored males, and homosexual males. The vast popularity of the book caused such a buzz that the Civil Service Commission had to create a \"publicity campaign to improve the image of federal employees\" in hopes to save their federal employees from losing their jobs. This ploy failed once the journalists linked feminism to communism in their novel and ultimately reinforced antifeminism by implying that defending the \"white, Christian, heterosexual, patriarchal family\" was the only way to oppose communism.\n\nThe Equal Rights Amendment is a perennially proposed amendment to the United States Constitution that would grant equal rights and opportunities to every citizen of the United States, regardless of his or her sex. In 1950 and 1953, ERA was passed by the Senate with a provision known as \"the Hayden rider\", making it unacceptable to ERA supporters. The Hayden rider was included to keep special protections for women. A new section to the ERA was added, stating: \"The provisions of this article shall not be construed to impair any rights, benefits, or exemptions now or hereafter conferred by law upon persons of the female sex.\" That is, women could keep their existing and future special protections that men did not have. By 1972, the amendment was supported by both major parties and was immensely popular. However, it was defeated in Congress when it failed to get the vote of thirty-eight legislatures by 1982. Supporters of an unaltered ERA rejected the Hayden rider, believing an ERA containing the rider did not provide for equality.\n\nJerome Himmelstein identified two main theories about the appeal of antifeminism and its role in opposition to the ERA. One theory is that it was a clash between upper-class liberal voters and the older, more conservative lower-class rural voters who often serve as the center for right-wing movements; in other words, this theory identifies particular social classes as more inherently friendly to antifeminism. Another theory holds that women who feel vulnerable and dependent on men are likely to oppose anything that threatens that tenuous stability; under this view, while educated, independent career women may support feminism, housewives who lack such resources are more drawn to antifeminism. Himmelstein, however, says both views are at least partially wrong, arguing that the primary dividing line between feminists and antifeminists is cultural rather than stemming from differences in economic and social status. There are, in fact, similarities between income between activists on both sides of the ERA debate. As it turned out, the most indicative factors when predicting ERA position, especially among women, were race, marital status, age, and education. ERA opposition was much higher among white, married, older, and less educated citizens. Women who opposed the ERA tended to fit characteristics consistent with the Religious Right.\n\nVal Burris, meanwhile, says that high-income men opposed the amendment because they would gain the least with it being passed; that those men had the most to lose, since the ratification of the ERA would mean more competition for their jobs and possibly a lowered self-esteem. Because of the support of antifeminism from conservatives and the constant \"conservative reactions to liberal social politics\", such as the New Deal attacks, the attack on the ERA has been called a \"right-wing backlash\". Their methods include actions such as \"insults proffered in emails or on the telephone, systematic denigration of feminism in the media, Internet disclosure of confidential information (e.g. addresses) on resources for battered women\" and more.\n\nAbortion remains one of the most controversial topics in the United States. \"Roe v. Wade\" was passed in 1973, and abortion was utilized by many antifeminists to rally supporters. Antiabortion views helped further several right-wing movements, including explicit antifeminism, and helped right-wing politicians rise to power. Antiabortion writings, as well as conservative commentary in the late 20th century criticized the selfishness and self-centeredness of the feminist movement regarding abortions.\n\nSome current antifeminist practices can be traced back to the rise of the religious right in the late 1970s. BBC and \"Time\", among others, have covered the 2014 social media trend #WomenAgainstFeminism. These antifeminists contend that feminism demonizes men (misandry) and that women are not oppressed in 21st century Western countries.\n\nBritish newspaper \"The Guardian\" and the website Jezebel have also reported on an increasing number of women and female celebrities rejecting feminism and instead subscribing to humanism. As a response to a pro-feminism speech by Australian Labor Senator Penny Wong, several women who identify as being humanist and antifeminist argued in an article for the \"Guardian\" that feminism is a discriminatory ideology and continues to portray women as victims.\n\nIn response to the social media trend, modern day feminists also began to upload similar pictures to websites such as Twitter and Tumblr. Most used the same hashtag, \"womenagainstfeminism\", but instead made satirical and bluntly parodic comments. In November 2014, \"Time\" magazine included \"feminist\" on its annual list of proposed banished words. After initially receiving the majority of votes (51%), a \"Time\" editor apologized for including the word in the poll and removed it from the results.\n\nFounded in the U.S. by Phyllis Schlafly in 1972, Stop ERA, now known as \"Eagle Forum\", lobbied successfully to block the passage of the Equal Rights Amendment in the U.S. It was also Schlafly who forged links between Stop ERA and other conservative organizations, as well as single-issue groups against abortion, pornography, gun control, and unions. By integrating Stop ERA with the thus-dubbed \"new right\", she was able to leverage a wider range of technological, organizational and political resources, successfully targeting pro-feminist candidates for defeat.\n\nIn India, the Save Indian Family Foundation is an antifeminist organization opposed to a number of laws that they claim to have been used against men.\n\nThe Concerned Women of America (CWA) are also an antifeminist organization. Like other conservative women's groups, they oppose abortion and same-sex marriage and make appeals for maternalism and biological differences between women and men.\n\nThe Independent Women's Forum (IWF) is another antifeminist, conservative, women-oriented group. It's younger and less established than the CWA, though the two organizations are often discussed in relation to each other. It was founded to take on the \"old feminist establishment\". Both of these organizations pride themselves on rallying women who do not identify with feminist rhetoric together. These organizations frame themselves as being by women, for women, in order to fight the idea that feminism is the only women-oriented ideology. These organizations chastise feminists for presuming to universally speak for all women. The IWF claims to be \"the voice of \"reasonable\" women with important ideas who embrace common sense over divisive ideology\".\n\nThe alt-right movement is antifeminist.\n\nAccording to Amherst College sociology professor Jerome L. Himmelstein, antifeminism is rooted in social stigmas against feminism and is thus a purely reactionary movement. Himmelstein identifies two prevailing theories that seek to explain the origins of antifeminism: the first theory, proposed by Himmelstein, is that conservative opposition in the abortion and Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) debates has created a climate of hostility toward the entire feminist movement. The second theory Himmelstein identifies states that the female antifeminists who lead the movement are largely married, low education, and low personal income women who embody the \"insecure housewife scenario\" and seek to perpetuate their own situation in which women depend on men for fiscal support. However, numerous studies have failed to correlate the aforementioned demographic factors with support for antifeminism, and only religiosity correlates positively with antifeminist alignment. Thus, Himmelstein concludes that antifeminism is a conservative religious reaction against the progress of modern feminism.\n\nAuthors Janet Saltzman Chafetz and Anthony Gary Dworkin, writing for \"Gender and Society\", argue that the organizations most likely to formally organize against feminism are religious. This is because women's movements may demand access to male-dominated positions within the religious sector, like the clergy, and women's movements threaten male-oriented values of some religions. The more successful a feminist movement is in challenging the authority of male-dominated groups, the more these groups will organize a countermovement.\n\nUniversity of Illinois at Chicago sociology professor Danielle Giffort argues that the stigma against feminism created by antifeminists has resulted in organizations that practice \"implicit feminism\", which she defines as the \"strategy practiced by feminist activists within organizations that are operating in an anti- and post-feminist environment in which they conceal feminist identities and ideas while emphasizing the more socially acceptable angles of their efforts\". Due to the stigma against feminism, some activists, such as those involved with Girls Rock, may take the principles of feminism as a foundation of thought and teach girls and women independence and self-reliance without explicitly labeling it with the stigmatized brand of feminism. Thus, most women continue to practice feminism in terms of seeking equality and independence for women, yet avoid the label.\n\nAntifeminism might be motivated by the belief that feminist theories of patriarchy and disadvantages suffered by women in society are incorrect or exaggerated; that feminism as a movement encourages misandry and results in harm or oppression of men; or driven by general opposition towards women's rights.\n\nIn a study of 126 American students, antifeminist men were found to value their own power more than nonfeminist or feminist men did. Antifeminist women were not found to have the same difference from other women, suggesting some men may oppose feminism because they fear losing their power or sense of power in society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27259656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27259656", "title": "Art Loss Register", "text": "Art Loss Register\n\nArt Loss Register (ALR) is the world's largest database of stolen art. A computerized international database that captures information about lost and stolen art, antiques, and collectables, the ALR is a London-based, independent, for profit corporate offspring of the New York-based, nonprofit International Foundation for Art Research (IFAR). The range of functions served by ALR has grown as the number of its listed items has increased. The database is used by collectors, the art trade, insurers, and law enforcement agencies worldwide. In 1991, IFAR helped create the Art Loss Register (ALR) as a commercial enterprise to expand and market the database. IFAR managed ALR's U.S. operations through 1997. In 1998 the ALR assumed full responsibility for the IFAR database although IFAR retains ownership. In 1992, the database comprised only 20,000 items, but it grew in size nearly tenfold during its first decade.\n\nThe first steps towards ALR began with the establishment of IFAR in New York in 1969.\n\nAmong other explicit goals, IFAR was created to compile information about stolen art. In response to the growth of international art thefts, IFAR began publishing the \"Stolen Art Alert\" in 1976.\n\nBy 1990, IFAR was updating its catalogue of stolen art 10 times a year. The magnitude of the problem overwhelmed what had grown to be over 20,000 manual records. While IFAR had been very successful in recording the details of losses, that was only a good first step.\n\nIn 1991, the ALR was established in London as a commercial company, earning fees from insurers and theft victims. Its founding shareholders included insurance and auction houses, which some think is a conflict of interest Christie's#cite note-72. The majority of shares are owned by its founder, Julian Radcliffe. Significant capital investment was needed so that IFAR could be computerised and so that the database made available to worldwide law enforcement agencies and others. \n\nIn response to the growth and development of IFAR, museum officials revised some policies based on an assumption that discussing theft would scare away potential donors. The AFR initially formed a partnership with the ALR, but, they later split after disagreements over strategy and issues of control. The change from policies of secrecy to ones which emphasize openness was gradual, mirroring an expectation that publicizing theft is likely to promote recovery. The ALR has been widely criticised for its methods and for the actions of its chairman, Julian Radcliffe. The Register has consistently lost money but for the personal cash infusions of its chairman.\n\n\n\nThe approach adopted by the ALR has been criticised. The Register has contacted owners of stolen art saying it had information, but not revealing it until a fee was paid. In another instance the ALR lied to Sotheby’s saying that paintings were not stolen. The paintings were then shipped to London, where they were seized. The ALR has likened this approach to the police misleading a suspect during an investigation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6400749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6400749", "title": "Automobile folklore", "text": "Automobile folklore\n\nThe major effects of the automobile on societies include the development of diverse customs and traditions.\nSome drivers believe that a new car is in greater danger than a used car of getting into an accident or having a collision. Some drivers will leave change under their seats. Others use one coin to scratch the car, based on the (false) belief that since the car is new and nothing has happened to it yet, the chances of something bad happening to the car is greater when compared to a used car which already has its fair share of dents and scratches. In hopes of preventing a high damaging accident, they will place a small nick or scratch on the car in an area where it will not be seen. The inside of the wheel well is one commonly scratched area.\n\nThere are also a few practices associated with graduations. In the days leading up to a graduation, some drivers (and in some cases friends of the driver) will write on the car windows with washable paint. The messages usually congratulate the driver of the car and list the driver’s school and year of graduation. After graduating from high school or college, some drivers choose to hang their tassel from the rearview mirror.\n\nSome people throw change under a bed in hopes of bringing good luck to the new home. Change is known world wide as a good luck charm.\n\nThere are also religious acts that are associated with automobiles. This can include getting the car blessed by a cleric or placing an object of religious significance inside the car.\n\nA predominately Roman Catholic practice is to place a medal of Saint Christopher, the patron saint of truck drivers and travelers in general, inside the car. Usually, the driver will have this medal blessed by a priest. An ancient legend, mentioned by Erasmus in the \"Praise of Folly\", holds that those who see an image of Saint Christopher cannot die through misadventure during that day. Not surprisingly, images of Saint Christopher became popular automobile accessories. Through the presence of the medal, the driver is asking the Saint to pray on his or her behalf for a safe and uneventful journey.\n\nA somewhat more sombre purpose originally stood behind the familiar plastic Jesus that some Christians have mounted on their dashboards. The original plastic Jesus was circulated by the Sacred Heart Auto League, founded in 1955 by Father Gregory Bezy, SCJ. This devotional society placed the traditional Roman Catholic figure of Jesus displaying his Sacred Heart on the dashboard. Father Bezy was moved to do this as a \"practical answer to what he considered the ever-increasing dangers of our overcrowded streets and highways.\" In other words, in the event of a fatal accident, Father Bezy hoped that the last thing the riders would see would be the image of Jesus, and as such face Eternity with faith and contrition.\n\nThe plastic dashboard Jesus proved popular among non-Catholic Christians as well. The figure is well known enough to have inspired a folk song \"Plastic Jesus\", originally attributed to Ed Rush and George Cromarty, which has acquired many anonymous folk variants. One frequent set of verses has it open:\n\nSome Catholics will also hang rosary beads from their rearview mirror.\n\nCatholics and other Christians may also hang crosses or crucifixes from the rearview mirror.\n\nCars are often decorated, and have wishes written on them, and various streamers or trailing objects attached, in celebrations of weddings and graduations.\n\nA frequent wedding tradition in the United States involves the decoration of the vehicle the bride and groom drive take at the conclusion of the wedding ceremony. Typically, various ribbons and streamers are attached, and words written upon the surface of the vehicle, and often tin cans are attached to its fenders or bumpers by strings to serve as noisemakers. Jan Brunvand's \"American Folklore: An Encyclopedia\" speculates that the decoration of the car and its equipment with noisemakers may perpetuate the shivaree, a custom in which newlyweds were given a noisy serenade; when honeymoon travel became a custom, it made a traditional local shivaree impractical, so the vehicle is given a noisy sendoff instead.\n\nSome cars are used chiefly for special occasions and social rituals, such as limousines.\n\nVarious professions revolving around motor vehicles acquire a folklore of their own. Truck drivers, since they tend to work in isolation, tend to develop a social network of their own. They circulate a number of tall tales that relate generally to their profession, usually involving the outwitting of state police and other traffic or tax authorities. They also create an elaborate body of customs and lore surrounding the use of citizen's band radio, with its own jargon and \"handles\", which came to national notice in the 1970s. A widespread bit of popular folklore circulated among other motorists that truck drivers knew which restaurants to patronize and which to avoid, so eateries that were obviously frequented by truck drivers were esteemed by the general public. With the arise of national restaurant chains, this bit of folklore is fading.\n\nSimilar folklore surrounds taxicab drivers, involving the tales they tell among each other, and the tales that circulate about them.\n\nThere is a practice in New Jersey and New York of tossing a few coins onto the floor of a newly purchased car as a sign of good luck. This practice originated as a practical one. Because of the area's many toll roads, many drivers would carry change in their cars. The friends and family of the new car owner would throw coins onto the floor of the new car so if the driver ever ran out of his own money, he could always reach down and find some extra money on the floor.\n"}
{"id": "35821749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35821749", "title": "Beauty and cosmetics in ancient Egypt", "text": "Beauty and cosmetics in ancient Egypt\n\nThe ancient Egyptians regarded beauty as a sign of holiness. Everything the ancient Egyptians used had a spiritual aspect to it, including cosmetics. Traders traded makeup often, especially in the upper classes. In tombs, cosmetic palettes were found buried with the deceased as grave goods which further emphasized the idea that cosmetics were not only used for aesthetic purposes but rather magical and religious purposes.\n\nThe two main forms of eye makeup were grepond eye paint and black kohl. The green eye paint was made of malachite, a copper carbonate pigment, and the black kohl was made from galena, a dark grey ore. Crushed charcoal was also used in this process. Mesdemet or Kohl was used for lining the eyes and were revealed to bring along potent health benefits in the form of protection from disease, bugs and sun rays.\n\nThe ancient Egyptians were not entirely misguided in believing that kohl would prevent eye infections because it actually did help to prevent bacterial infections ocular infection associated with flood waters from the Nile. The lead-based substances in the kohl promoted the production of nitric oxide in their skin, which helped strengthen their immune systems against diseases. The soot in kohl helped in reducing the damaging effects of sun glare on their eyes. The ancient Egyptians created a remedy for burns by mixing the cheek and lip stain and other remedies for improving skin with red natron, northern salt and honey. However, the ancient Egyptians strongly believed that the healing effects of these cosmetics were magical rather than medical.\n\nCosmetics palettes were used to grind makeup. The earliest examples were rectangular in shape and date back to 5000 BC. The palettes later adopted a rounder shape like the Narmer palette. King Narmer’s palette was the earliest piece of its kind. It has decorations of the King smiting the enemies of Egypt and the unification of Upper and Lower Egypt, as well as a cavity for the grinding of cosmetics, making it a double purposed palette. These later developed into fish shaped palettes. They might have chosen the fish shape as the fish was a symbol of resurrection and new life. The fish shaped palettes were usually adorned with precious stones for royalty. These palettes have developed into baboon shaped containers to hold the kohl which held symbolic meanings for the ancient Egyptians.\n\nThe use of cosmetics in Egypt varied slightly between social classes, where more make-up was worn by higher class individuals as wealthier individuals could afford more cosmetics. Although there was no prominent difference between the make-up styles of the upper and lower class, noble women were known to pale their skin using creams and powders. This was due to pale skin being a sign of nobility as lighter skin meant less exposure to the sun whereas dark skin was associated with the lower class who tanned while taking part in menial labor such as working in the fields. Thus, paler skin represented the non-working noble class, as noble women would not work in the sun.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27003478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27003478", "title": "Bloviation", "text": "Bloviation\n\nBloviation is a style of empty, pompous political speech popularized by United States President Warren G. Harding, who, himself a master of the technique, described it as \"the art of speaking for as long as the occasion warrants, and saying nothing\". The verb \"to bloviate\" is the act of creating bloviation. In terms of its etymology, according to one source, the word is a \"compound of blow, in its sense of 'to boast' (also in another typical Americanism, \"blowhard\"), with a mock-Latin ending to give it the self-important stature implicit in its meaning.\"\n\n\"Bloviation\" in Ohio originally meant idle chatter. Used to refer to a form of political speech, it appears in the \"Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the Constitution of the State of Ohio\" in the mid 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "10258765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10258765", "title": "Cascading strings", "text": "Cascading strings\n\nCascading strings (also sometimes known as \"tumbling strings\") is an arrangement technique of British light music. This technique is associated in the U.S. with the style of easy listening known as beautiful music. The cascading strings effect was first developed by British composer/arranger Ronald Binge, but most associated with Annunzio Paolo Mantovani and his Mantovani Orchestra. \n\nU.S. Record producers Hugo and Luigi also did a series of recordings under the name \"Cascading Voices\" and later \"Cascading Strings.\"\n\nOne effect of the cascading strings technique is to emulate the acoustic properties of a large hall such as a cathedral, through simulated reverberation. The effect is achieved in an orchestra using multiple string sections, which would play slightly different parts from one another, in a cascading effect, thus creating the illusion of reverberation of the original sound.\n"}
{"id": "40760884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40760884", "title": "Catalogus Codicum Astrologorum Graecorum", "text": "Catalogus Codicum Astrologorum Graecorum\n\nCatalogus Codicum Astrologorum Graecorum (CCAG) is a 12-volume (including appendices) catalogue of astrological writings in Greek. The \"CCAG\" edited, described, and excerpted from texts found in libraries throughout Europe, most edited and catalogued for the first time. The \"CCAG\" was published between 1898 and 1953 in Brussels. The chief editors in the earlier period of publication were Franz Cumont and Franz Boll. The \"CCAG\" was described as the \"most important\" modern survey of Greek astrological writings.\n\n"}
{"id": "13307492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13307492", "title": "Cliché verre", "text": "Cliché verre\n\nCliché verre is a combination of painting and or drawing, with photography. In brief, it is a method of either etching, painting or drawing on a transparent surface, such as glass, thin paper or film and printing the resulting image on a light sensitive paper in a photographic darkroom. It is a process first practiced by a number of French painters during the early 19th century. The French landscape painter Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot was the best known of these. Some contemporary artists have developed techniques for achieving a variety of line, tone, texture and color by experimenting with film, frosted Mylar, paint and inks and a wide assortment of tools for painting, etching, scratching, rubbing and daubing. Scratching a negative is another form of cliche verre. Many ways to get different designs for a cliche verre is to print a design off of the computer onto transparent paper. Or even scan a photo onto transparent paper and alter it that way before exposing it. \n\n\"Cliché verre\" is French. \"Cliché\" is a printing term: a printing plate cast from movable type; while \"verre\" means glass.\n\nCliché verre was one of the earliest forms of reproducing images before the advent of the camera. As a precursor to photography, cliché verre could accurately represent the original scene without the tonal variations available in modern day photography.\n\n"}
{"id": "953711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=953711", "title": "Commode", "text": "Commode\n\nA commode is any of several pieces of furniture. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" has multiple meanings of \"commode\". The first relevant definition reads: \"A piece of furniture with drawers and shelves; in the bedroom, a sort of elaborate chest of drawers (so in French); in the drawingroom, a large (and gen.[erally] old-fashioned) kind of chiffonier.\" The drawing room is itself an old-fashioned term for a formal reception room, and a chiffonier is, in this sense, a small sideboard dating from the early 19th century.\n\nAnother meaning attested is a washstand, a piece of furniture equipped with basin, jug, and towel rail, and often with space to store the chamber pot behind closed doors. A washstand in the bedroom pre-dates indoor bathrooms and running water.\n\nIn British English, \"commode\" is the standard term for a commode chair, often on wheels, enclosing a chamber pot—as used in hospitals and the homes of invalids. In the United States, a \"commode\" is a colloquial synonym for a flush toilet.\n\nThe word \"commode\" comes from the French word for \"convenient\" or \"suitable\", which in turn comes from the Latin adjective \"commodus\", with similar meanings.\n\nThe term originates in the vocabulary of French furniture from about 1700. At that time, a \"commode\" meant a cabinet or chest of drawers, low enough so that it sat at the height of the dado rail (\"à hauteur d'appui\"). It was a piece of veneered case furniture much wider than it was high, raised on high or low legs. \n\nCommodes were made by \"ébénistes\"; the French word for \"cabinet-maker\" is derived from ebony, a black tropical hardwood notable as a foreign luxury. The beautiful wood was complemented with ormolu (gilt-bronze drawer pulls). The piece of furniture would be provided with a marble slab top selected to match the marble of the chimneypiece.\n\nA commode occupied a prominent position in the room for which it was intended: it stood against the pier between the windows, in which case it would often be surmounted by a mirror glass, or a pair of identical commodes would flank the chimneypiece or occupy the center of each end wall.\n\n\"Bombé\" commodes, with surfaces shaped in three dimensions, were a feature of the rococo style called \"Louis Quinze\". Rectilinear neoclassical, or \"Louis Seize\", commodes might have such deep drawers or doors that the feet were \"en toupie\"—in the tapering turned shape of a child's spinning top. Both rococo and neoclassical commodes might have cabinets flanking the main section, in which case such a piece was a \"commode à encoignures\"; pairs of \"encoignures\" or corner-cabinets might also be designed to complement a commode and stand in the flanking corners of a room. If a commode had open shelves flanking the main section it was a \"commode à l'anglaise\"; if it did not have enclosing drawers it was a \"commode à vantaux\".\n\nBefore the mid-eighteenth century the commode had become such a necessary article of furniture that it might be made in \"menuiserie\" (carpentry), of solid painted oak, walnut or fruitwoods, with carved decoration, typical of French provincial furniture.\n\nIn the English-speaking world, \"commode\" passed into cabinet-makers' parlance in London by the mid-eighteenth century to describe chests of drawers with gracefully curved fronts, and sometimes with shaped sides as well, perceived as being in the \"French\" taste. Thomas Chippendale employed the term \"French Commode Tables\" to describe designs in \"The Cabinet-Maker and Upholsterer's Director\" (1753), and Ince and Mayhew illustrated a \"Commode Chest of drawers\", plate xliii, in their \"Universal System of Household Furniture\", 1759–62. John Gloag notes that \"Commode\" expanded to describe any piece of furniture with a serpentine front, such as a dressing table, or even a chair seat. Gloag points out that Thomas Shearer's designs for two \"commode dressing chests\" illustrated in \"The Cabinet-Makers' London Book of Prices\", 1788, plate 17, are repeated, but as \"serpentine dressing chests\", in \"The Prices of Cabinet Work\", 1797 edition.\n\nIn British English, \"commode\" is the standard term for a commode chair, often on wheels, enclosing a chamber pot—as used in hospitals and the homes of invalids. (The historic equivalent is the close stool, hence the coveted and prestigious position Groom of the Stool for a courtier close to the monarch.) This piece of furniture is termed in French a chaise percée (\"pierced chair\"); similar items were made specifically as moveable bidets for washing.\n\nIn the United States, a \"commode\" is a colloquial synonym for a flush toilet.\n"}
{"id": "41527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41527", "title": "Contrapposto", "text": "Contrapposto\n\nContrapposto () is an Italian term that means counterpoise. It is used in the visual arts to describe a human figure standing with most of its weight on one foot so that its shoulders and arms twist off-axis from the hips and legs. This gives the figure a more dynamic, or alternatively relaxed appearance. It can also be used to refer to multiple figures which are in counter-pose (or opposite pose) to one another. It can further encompass the tension as a figure changes from resting on a given leg to walking or running upon it (so-called \"ponderation\"). The leg that carries the weight of the body is known as the \"engaged\" leg, the relaxed leg is known as the \"free\" leg. Contrapposto is less emphasized than the more sinuous S Curve, and creates the illusion of past and future movement.\n\nContrapposto was an extremely important sculptural development, for its appearance marks the first time in Western art that the human body is used to express a psychological disposition. The balanced, harmonious pose of the Kritios Boy suggests a calm and relaxed state of mind, an evenness of temperament that is part of the ideal of man represented. \n\nFrom this point onwards Greek sculptors went on to explore how the body could convey the whole range of human experience, culminating in the desperate anguish and pathos of \"Laocoön and His Sons\" (1st century CE) in the Hellenistic period.\n\nThe first known statue to use contrapposto is Kritios Boy, c. 480 BC, so called because it was once attributed to the sculptor Kritios. It is possible, even likely, that earlier bronze statues had used the technique, but if they did, they have not survived and Kenneth Clark called the statue \"the first beautiful nude in art\". The statue is a Greek marble original and not a Roman copy.\nPrior to the introduction of contrapposto, the statues that dominated ancient Greece were the archaic kouros (male) and the kore (female). Contrapposto has been used since the dawn of classical western sculpture. According to the \"canon\" of the Classical Greek Sculptor Polykleitos in the 4th century BC, it is one of the most important characteristics of his figurative works and those of his successors, Lysippos, Skopas, etc. The Polykletian statues – for example, Discophoros (\"discus-bearer\") and Doryphoros (\"spear-bearer\") – are idealized athletic young men with the divine sense, and captured in contrapposto. In these works, the pelvis is no longer axial with the vertical statue as in the archaic style of earlier Greek sculpture before \"Kritios Boy\".\n\nContrapposto can be clearly seen in the Roman copies of the statues of Hermes and Heracles. A famous example is the marble statue of Hermes with the infant Dionysus in Olympia by Praxiteles. It can also be seen in the Roman copies of Polyclitus's Amazon.\n\nGreek art emphasized humanism along with the human mind and the human body's beauty. Greek youths trained and competed in athletic contests in the nude. A great contribution to the contrapposto pose was the concept of a canon of proportions, in which mathematical properties are used to create proportions.\n\nClassical contrapposto was revived in the Renaissance by the Italian artists Donatello and Leonardo da Vinci, followed by Michelangelo, Raphael and other artists of the High Renaissance. One of the major achievements of the Italian Renaissance was the re-discovery of contrapposto, although in Mannerism it became greatly over-used.\n\nThe technique continues to be widely employed in sculpture.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18842490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18842490", "title": "Culture of Basilan", "text": "Culture of Basilan\n\nThe Culture of Basilan are derived from the three main cultural ethnolinguistic nations, the Yakan, Suluanon Tausug and the Zamboangueño in the southern Philippines. Both Yakans and Tausugs are predominantly Muslim, joined by their kin from the Sama, Badjao, Maranao, and other Muslim ethnolinguistic groups of Mindanao, while the Zamboangueños are primarily Christian, joined by the predominantly Christian ethnolinguistic groups; the Cebuano, Ilocano, Tagalog and others. These three main groups, however, represent Basilan's tri-people or tri-ethnic group community.\n\nThe island is the homeland of the Yakans, a Filipino ethnic group or ethnolinguistic group widely regarded as having been descended from Orang Dampuans (Orang Dyaks, Tagihamas) of the Kingdom of Champa and eastern Indonesia, and recognized for their colorful costume.\n\nThe Yakan have designs or motifs used repeatedly in all their visual arts and crafts. The \"pussuk labbung\" is a sawtooth design used for cloth baskets and the native sword called kris. The \"bunga sama\", used for table runners, monuments for the dead and on trunks, is a symmetrical design made of rectangular-shaped figures. The \"kabban buddi\" is a set of triangles, squares, and other geometric shapes used for cushions, pillows, casings, mats, and hats. The \"baggang kettan\" combines incised triangles and rectangles, and is used to decorate the kris. The ukil lagbas consists of a combination of various lines – wavy, crossed-wavy, and straight – used on shirts, windows of houses, and boats (Sherfan 1976:210–211).\n\nWeapons such as knives and swords are part of the Yakan's visual arts. The \"punnyal\" is a small knife, which can be hidden within one's clothing. The barong is carried with pride since it is a symbol of strength and is also acceptable as bride wealth. The taming is the traditional shield used along with two types of spears, the budjak and the sankil, now used only in war dances. The bangkung is another type of bolo seldom used nowadays. The pira is a traditional weapon used by little boys when going on a long journey. The barong and the kris, although popular, are less valuable or admired among the Yakan (Sherfan 1976:156–160).\n\nYakan visual arts includes Yakan kitchen utensils and household implements. Metalware includes the talam, a beautifully decorated bronze tray, and the sanduk or ladle used for special occasions. Yakan basketry is both colorful and functional. The tutop is a food cover made of bamboo leaves. The peliyuk is a clay jar with cover used for cooking. The baling is a decorative clay jar treasured as heirloom. The kombo is a lidded container for rice storage. A lakal is a bamboo frame used to hold the cooking gadget when placed on the ground. The tempipih is a big basket carried on the back. A conical basket called the saan is used as a liquid strainer.\n\nBaskets are also used to measure and weigh. The gantang is bigger than the government ganta. The batil measures nine gantang. The laga is 10 gantang. The ilug is 30 gantang. The lukung is equivalent to 100 gantang. An example of Yakan pottery is the poga, a covered clay jar used as water container (Sherfan 1976:201–204).\n\nYakan women are excellent weavers, and are famous for their beautifully woven traditional costumes of cotton and pineapple cloth. The basic garment for men and women consists of a tight-fitting upper garment with tight-fitting trousers called sawal. The shirt is open in front from lapel down to the waist, using up to 40 sequined or golden buttons. To close the shirt, a long string is crisscrossed from one button to the other so that when tightly drawn, the shirt closes from top to bottom. Usually, the shirt remains open since the string is often lost. Over the shirt, male and female wear a tight-fitting jacket, which is exquisitely embroidered in the front and back, with cuffs decorated with multicolored sequins.\n\nThe difference in male and female apparel lies in accessories. Men wear a hand-woven pis (head cloth) and a 15-m-long kandit (belt or sash) made of red cloth called gilim. The pis serves as \"protection\" from spears and knives during combat, and may be fastened around the trousers. The women wear a short skirt over the trousers, around which a rectangular, hand woven cloth is tied. This cloth is the most expensive part of their costume because it is woven in a tedious manner. Men and women wear the saruk, the Yakan hat worn to make one look more attractive and elegant. Some wear the hat over the turban and use it as a purse for betel nuts, tobacco, and money. Yakan warriors wear a bulletproof shirt prepared by hadjis and imams who write Arabic script all over the shirt (Sherfan 1976:160, 205–207).\n\nOrnaments such as necklaces may be worn as charms. A crocodile tooth polished with a hole at the base is believed to bring good luck when worn as a necklace. The Yakan also wear amulets against bullets. These contain unreadable symbols, are wrapped in black cloth, sewn in triangular form, and tied around the neck. Belts made of snake bones are strung together to protect them against bodily pain. One charm that protects them from sicknesses due to evil spirits is the manik tegiyas – a necklace or bracelet made of the fruits of a flower beaded together. The manik sembulan is made of a bamboo stem cut into short pieces, strung together either as a necklace or bracelet, and serving as added protection against sickness inflicted by evil spirits. To gain more strength against evil spirits, men and women wear the anting-anting. This consists of a string with a piece of cloth containing beads as pendant (Sherfan 1976:143–147).\n\nThe Yakan also wear functional gadgets. The pegupaan is a bamboo container for all the paraphernalia for chewing betel nut. The lutuan, a small bronze box with engravings carried at the waist, has a similar function (Sherfan 1976:203).\n\nA unique form of visual arts is the facial make-up done on brides and grooms. After creating a foundation of white powder, the make-up artists proceed to paint dots and lines in various patterns on the faces, creating the effect of formal and elaborate masks which match the ornate costumes of the celebrants.\n\nThe Yakan have a rich musical tradition, which may be broadly divided into instrumental and vocal. Yakan musical instruments are made of bamboo, wood, and metal. Their musical instruments also demonstrate the influence of the traditional cycle of rice production in their lives. Several instruments are used in each stage of rice production. The daluppak is a digging stick with a bamboo clapper. The kopak-kopak is a bamboo clapper on a stick. The Kwintangan Kayu is percussion instrument consisting of wooden beams laid after the planting season, to enhance plant growth. The wooden tuntungan is a percussion plank with jar resonators, also played during the harvest season for thanksgiving.\n\nThe gabbang is a bamboo split into five, and arranged like a xylophone. Small children near the fields played it in order to guard the crops against prying animals. The kwintangan batakan is an earlier form of gabbang which has six, seven, or nine bamboo pieces. The suling is a bamboo mouth flute used by the men in courting women. Another bamboo instrument used by the men in expressing love or admiration is the kulaing. The Kulintangan or kwintangan consists of several bronze gongs arranged according to size, and used during celebrations such as weddings and graduations. Any individual played it in the home and after work, for self-expression and relaxation. The agong is a percussion instrument used to announce marriage or for tolling the dead. The jabujabu (djabu-djabu) is a type of drum that summons the people to prayer (Nicolas 1977: 100–108; Sherfan 1976:195–199).\n\nThere are three main types of Yakan vocal music: the lugu and other melodies used in reading the Quran and other religious books; the kalangan or songs which may be further reclassified into Jamiluddin and Lunsey; and the katakata, nahana, yaya, lembukayu, and sa-il, among others. The kalangan, jamiluddin, katakata, nahana, and yaya are sung solo, while the lunsey, sa-il, meglubulebu seputangen, and lembukayu involves singers from two groups singing solo as they answer each other. \nThe kalangan, jamiluddin, lunsey, and lembukayu are courting songs. The katakata, jamiluddin, and nahana may also narrate the history of the Yakan people. The katakata is a long traditional song narrating the lives, loves, and historical backgrounds of people who lived during early times. The Yakan believed that such stories originated from people who lived in another world. The katakata is sung only at night, at a big gathering with food served by the host or hostess. The singing, in episodes, may last for several nights. The singer lies on a mat, the back supported by several pillows. The audience, either sit or lie around the singer. The jamiluddin relates love stories. At present, it is also sung when families discuss marriage engagements. Both the katakata and jamiluddin are sung by wise men and women of the tribe.\n\nThe sa-il and lunsey are sung during a wedding ceremony, with messages revolving around good advice regarding married life. Another type of sa-il is sung during the magtammat or Quranic graduation. \nDuring social gatherings, the maglebu-lebu seputangan is sung, by a group of men answering a group of women. Each group has a soloist who sings the kalangan, expressed in metaphors. \nThe yaya is a lullaby. The magsambag is a method of studying the Quran in which a Murid or student follows the Quranic singing of the teacher. The student and teacher are not allowed to sing together.\n\nThen there are the songs, which the Yakan sing during daily activities. In keeping watch over rice fields, they sing some forms of the jamiluddin and kalangan. While resting at home, they also leisurely sing the katakata, jamiluddin, and nahana. Children at play imitate the adults in singing the kalangan, jamiluddin, lembukayu, and lugu (Nicolas 1977:97–100).\nOne popular Yakan dance adopted from the Tausugs Pangalay is called mangalay. The dance is accompanied by the kunlintangan kayu and played by three people. In the Yakan \"bumblebee\" mimetic dance usually performed by a male dancer, a searcher successfully finds honey with the aid of a torch. He overeats, and the result is a stomachache (Orosa-Goquingco 1980:175). Another example of a mimetic dance is the tahing baila, which imitates the movement of a fish (Tiongson 1991:236). At weddings, the tumahik or war dance is to be performed by the groom as well as male relatives of both the groom and the bride. Dressed in Yakan finery, the dancer uses a spear and a shield to fight an imaginary enemy to the music of the kulintangan.\n\nThe Tausug are the Yakan's traditional rivals in the Sulu Archipelago. Based primarily in the island of Jolo, the Tausug built a powerful maritime confederation of Datus and Rajas extending from the Sulu Archipelago to Palawan and North Borneo. They inhabit Basilan's coastal areas, specifically around the island's southwest and northwestern communities. Known to be fierce warriors and sailors throughout the 16th to the 19th centuries, they withstood Spanish incursions for over 350 years, succumbing only in 1876, and then to the Americans in 1915.\n\n\"Tausug\" derives from \"tau\" meaning \"man\" and sug meaning \"current,\" and translates into \"people of the current.\" It refers to the majority Islamized group in the Sulu archipelago, their language, and culture. The Tausug, are predominant in the northern part of Sulu province, i.e., Jolo Island and the neighboring islands of Pata, Marunggas, Tapul, and Lugus, and to a lesser extent in Siasi and Pangutaran (Arce 1963:3). The province of Sulu derives its name from \"sulug\" or \"sūg\" which in Tausug means \"ocean current,\" while Sulu's capital Jolo is the Spanish corruption of Sulu.\n\nThe Tausug speak \"Bahasa Sūg\", a Malayo-Polynesian language related to the Visayan variety spoken in Surigao, and write in a Malayo-Arabic script known as Jawi or \"sulat sūg\".\n\nTausug visual arts are represented by carvings, metalworks, woodworks, tapestry and embroidery, mat making and basketry, textile and fashion, pottery, and other minor arts (Szanton 1963). In general, Tausug visual arts follow the Islamic prohibition of representing human or animal forms. Consequently, Mindanao and Sulu have developed ukkil or abstract motifs which are carved, printed, or painted into various media. These motifs are suggestive of leaves, vines, flowers, fruits, and various geometric shapes.\n\nTausug carving is best exemplified by the sunduk or grave marker. Although not as stylized as those of the Samal, the Tausug sunduk are wood or stone carvings of geometric or floral forms. Women's grave markers are flatter with carved geometric designs, those of the men are more floral. Sakayan or outriggers present yet another media for Tausug carving. Adornments are usually made on the prow and sometimes on the sambili or strips across the hull. The carvings are done either on the boat itself, or on a separate piece of wood which is then attached to the vessel. Abstract manok-manok (bird) motifs are the most common. Ajong-ajong/sula-sula are carved tips supporting the wrapped sail; the hidjuk (dark cord) on the sangpad (prow-plate) also serve as decoration. Carved \"saam\" or cross—pieces supporting the outriggers are called the mata (eyes) of the boat. Colors used on the finished carvings are yellow, red, green, white, and blue (Szanton 1973:33–47).\n\nTausug \"mananasal\" or blacksmiths produce bolo, kalis, and barong (bladed weapons). Fishing implem-ents are also made, such as the \"sangkil\" (single-pointed spear) and the \"sapang\" (three-pronged spear). The more expensively fashioned blades have floral and geometric incisions; the ganja or metal strips which lock the handle and the blade are a decorative as well a functional device. Bronze casting is not as well developed as it is in Lanao. Among the several functional pieces produced were the \"batunjang\" (standing trays) and the \"talam\" (flat trays). Gold and silver-smithing for jewelry remain lucrative. Items produced by the local goldsmith include the \"singsing\" (ring), \"gallang\" (bracelet), \"gantung liug\" (necklace), \"bang\" (stud earring), \"aritis\" (dangling earring), \"pin\" (brooch), and gold teeth. In the past, \"tambuku\" (buttons) made of gold or silver decorated the traditional male and female costumes and were made with exquisite designs, often inlaid with \"palmata\" (semiprecious stones or gems). Among the favorite palmata are \"mussah\" (pearl), \"intan\" (diamond), \"kumalah\" (ruby) (Szanton 1973:47–51; Amilbangsa 1983:142–157).\n\nAn example of Tausug woodwork is the \"puhan\" (wooden handle) of bladed weapons which may be simple or decorated with gold or silver wires, strings, and rings. For the barong, the handle is wrapped in cord and metal at the far end, and carved and polished at the upper part. At the end of the grip is a protrusion carved with ukkil designs. The handle of the kalis, which the Tausug terms as \"daganan kalis\", can also be profusely decorated, sometimes with mother-of-pearl. Taguban (scabbards) are beautifully carved and are covered with budbud (fine rattan). Other woodworks include kitchen utensils and furniture items like beds, chests, and wardrobes (Szanton 1973:51–54).\n\nThere are two types of tapestries that the Tausug use to hang as house decoration: the luhul or canopy that hangs from the ceiling, and the kikitil/buras or wall tapestry. The ukkil design used for both is first traced on a starched white cloth which is then cut and sewn over a red, green, yellow, or blue background material. The ukkil design of the luhul, for example, is in the form of a tree with spreading leaves, vines, flowers, and branches. About 1 m wide, the kikitil is a smaller version of the luhul and is hung on the wall. The size of the room determines the length of the kikitil which is divided into various units corresponding to individualized panels. The ukkil design may be similar in all units.\n\nEmbroidery, another Tausug visual art form, is used to ornament table cloth, pillow cases, bed spreads, and the \"habul tiyahian\" (embroidered tube). The brightest silk thread is often used for the habul to underscore the design, which follows the ukkil pattern.\nUsed as bedding or underbedding, baluy or mats are usually made from pandanus. Double layering provides decoration and color; a simple base mat is sewn under a colored panel which has been dyed with one or more colors. The designs the Tausug usually adopt are the geometric patterns found on the \"pis siabit\" (male headgear) or the plaid known as \"baluy palang\". Mat designs are memorized and passed on to the next generation.\n\nThe Tausug male hat is made by weaving nito with bamboo strips over nipa leaves. Thus it is three-layered and woven in a sawali pattern. Structure and form are provided by the nipa leaves and the light bamboo frame, while texture and feel are supplied by the nito strips. The open-weave layer assures ventilation inside. Another example of Tausug basketry is the small nito container, 18–20 cm in diameter, used either as a coin or as a personal basket. If used as a personal basket, it comes with cover and handle. As a coin basket, it is supplied with a loop to allow it to be carried on a finger. A slit serves as the coin slot. Aniline dyes-magenta, blue, violet, and green-color the nito strips (Lane 1986:193-194).\n\nHablun or textile weaving is another well-known art form among the Tausug. The most popular woven material is the pis siabit or male headgear, which is about 1 sqm in size and distinct for its geometric designs. Because of its intricacy, one pis takes about three to four weeks of work. Only women weave the pis and other materials such as the kambut (sash) and kandit (loincloth and sash), which unfortunately have completely disappeared (Szanton 1973:6.4–65).\nThe female biyatawi is a blouse made of plain material like satin and is ornamented with tambuku (gold or silver buttons) on the breast, shoulders, and cuffs. It is usually worn with sawwal (loose trousers) of silk or brocade. A habul tiyahian is either slung across the shoulder or allowed to hang on one arm (Amilbangsa 1983:76–113).\n\nThe patadjung is an all-purpose skirt worn by both men and women. It has various other uses: as a turung or headcover, sash or waistband, blanket, ham-mock, and others. Resembling a big pillow case, the cloth for a patadjung has designs which are variously inspired: batik prints from Indonesia and Malaysia, checks and stripes from India, dunggala or stylized geometrical and floral patterns from Sarawak, Indone-sia, or Malaysia, calligraphic motifs from the Middle East (Amilbangsa 1983:82).\n\nTausug men wear the sawwal kuput or sawwal kantiyu (tight and loose trousers respectively), and match this with the badju lapi, a collarless short-tailored jacket similar to the biyatawi. The sleeves of the badju lapi are either long or \"three-fourth's\" with slits at the wrists. The badju lapi is likewise ornamented with tambuku on the breast, shoulders, and cuffs. The legs of the sawwal kaput are skin-tight down to the ankles, and have 22.5 cm slits on each side, which are also decorated with buttons. A kandit (handwoven or embroidered sash) tied around the waist serves to keep the sawwal kuput in place. A pis siabit is either tied around the head or left to hang on the shoulder (Amilbangsa 1983:114–130).\n\nFunction and simplicity define Tausug pottery. Decorations are limited to simple geometric lines as the emphasis has always been on the quantity not quality of the product. Examples include pots, vases, jugs, and various pieces of kitchenware (Szanton 1973: 61–63).\n\nTutup or plate covers are made by Tausug men and women; smaller pieces are called turung dulang riki-riki, and are used as wall adornment. Tutup mea-sure about 75 cm in diameter and are made of coconut leaves inside, and silal or buri leaves outside. Colored pandan leaves are sewn on the exterior and serve as decoration (Szanton 1973:64).\n\nCalligraphy is found printed or carved on doors and gates, as well as on tapestries. Musical instruments, especially the gabbang (native xylophone), are also decorated by the Tausug (Szanton 1973:65).\n\nVarious musical instruments, played solo or as an ensemble, provide the Tausug with music. Most notable is the kulintangan ensemble consisting of two gandang (drums), a tungallan (large gong), a duwahan (set of two-paired gongs), and the kulintangan (a graduated series of 8 to 11 small gongs). At least five players are needed to play the ensemble which is used to accompany dances or provide music during celebra-tions (Kiefer 1970:2).\n\nOther popular instruments are the gabbang (na-tive xylophone) and the biyula (native violin). With 14 to 24 keys divided into seven-note scales, the gabbang has become the most popular musical instrument in Sulu. It is used to accompany Tausug vocal music such as the sindil. The tune produced when the gabbang is played solo by a man or woman is called tahtah.\n\nThe biyula is similar to but larger than the western violin. It consists of four strings played by a bow made of horsehair. Traditionally played by men, the biyula, with the gabbang, accompany the sindil (Kiefer 1970:2)\n\nFlute music is associated with peace and travel. It represented by the following less popular instruments: the saunay (reed flute), suling (bamboo flute), and kulaing (jaw harp). The saunay is essentially a six-holed slender bamboo, 1.5 mm in diameter, capped by a sampung simud (mouthguard). A resonating chamber made of palm leaves is housed in the mouthguard. The suling is a larger version of the saunay. It is a 60-cm long bamboo with a 2-cm diameter. Like the saunay, it has six fingerholes (Kiefer 1970:4).\n\nThe repertoire for Tausug instrumental music include: the gabbang tahtah (gabbang with biyula accompaniment); the kasi-lasa, lugu, and tahtah (biyula songs); the sinug kiadtu-kari (kulintangan); the tiawag kasi (saunay music), the tahtah (suling music); and others (Kiefer 1970).\nKalangan or Tausug vocal music can be divided into narrative and lyric songs, and further into the lugu and the paggabang traditions. The luguh tradition denotes unaccompanied religious songs, while the paggabang tradition applies to \"more mundane\" songs that are accompanied by the gabbang and biyula (Trimillos 1972).\n\nNarrative songs tell a story and include all the sung kissa like the parang sabil. Lyric songs express ideas and feelings and consist of the langan batabata (children's songs), the baat (occupational songs), the baat caallaw and pangantin (funeral and bridal songs, respectively), the tarasul (sung poems), the sindil (sung verbal jousts), the liangkit (from langkit or \"chained\"), and the sangbay or song to accompany the dalling-dalling dance.\n\nThe langan batabata are more specifically lullabies. They have a soft and relaxing melody (Tuban 1977:210). Baat and kalangan are the same, the latter being the more general term to refer to singing. The baat taallaw have a melancholic melody. The baat pangantin are also known as langan pangantin. With a soothing melody, they are used to reassure a bride and to console a friend (Rixhon 1974a:51).\n\nThe sindil (sung verbal jousts) belong to the gabbang tradition and are performed by both sexes conducting an extemporaneous battle of wits. Teasing, jokes, and innuendos flow into the verses, the better ones applauded by the audience (Kiefer 1970: 10).\n\nThe liangkit are long solo pieces accompanied by the gabbang and biyula. Unlike the sindil, they are not performed extemporaneously. The subject of the liangkit is wide-love, war, nature, and others. The Tausug lelling, adopted from the Samal, are part of the liangkit tradition, but are sung to the music provided by a guitar. They relate and comment on current events. One good ex-ample is the lelling narrating the entry of the Moro National Liberation Front forces into Jolo town in February 1974.\n\nThe art of singing to the dalling-dalling dance is called pagsangbay. The song usually dictates the movement that the dancers should follow.\n\nThe lugu or sail tradition is associated with religious rituals and rites of the life cycle such as wed-dings, births, paggunting, pagtammat, and funerals. It is characterized by dahig or jugjug (high vocal tension). The tempo is slow with long sustained and stressed tones. Although usually performed by women, the lugu can also be sung by men (Trimillos 1974).\n\nThe most well-known dance of the Tausug is the pangalay. It is the basic style from which the movements of various dances in Sulu and Tawi-Tawi are derived. The pangalay is danced by either sex, alone or together, and is usually accompanied by the kulintang ensemble. The movement of the pangalay is concentrated on the thighs, knees, ankles, toes, waist, shoulders, neck, elbows, wrists, and fingers. The torso is usually kept rigid, moving upward or downward as the flow of the dance demands. The feet is firmly planted on the ground and move in small shuffling steps (Amilbangsa 1983:14, 62).\nThe pangalay dances are distinctive in their use of the janggay (metal nail extenders) to underscore hand movements. The extended fingers are stiff and set apart from the thumbs.\n\nAnother well-known Tausug dance is the dalling—dalling, where handkerchiefs or fans are used. A sing-er usually accompanies the dance by describing the various movements of the dancer. The song is known as the sangbay and the singing. pagsangbay. Some of the songs used are \"Lingisan/kinjung-kinjung,\" \"Dalling-dalling\". The development of the dalling—dalling is attributed to a native Tausug by the name of Albani who became a famous proponent of the dance (Amilbangsa 1983:42).\n\nTausug martial-art dances are performed by men and include the langka-silat and the langka-kuntaw. The langka-silat simulates a fight and is usually per-formed with two or three other dancers. The langka—kuntaw is a dance of self-defense, resembling the martial arts of China, Japan, and Burma (Amilbangsa 1983:32–35).\n\nA Tausug occupational dance is the linggisan which depicts a bird in flight; the taute, which shows a fisher diving for the prickly catfish; and the suwa—suwa, which shows dancers imitating the swaying of lemon trees (Amilbangsa 1983:28).\n\nZamboangueño Chavacano, also variously known as Zamboangueño, has been known for quite to be both a Castilian-based creole language and an ethnolinguistic nation or ethnolinguistic group born officially on June 23, 1635. It is also one of the six (6) dialects of Chavacano. Some of which like the Viasayan Chavacano, have already died off just a few years after the surrender of the Spanish. Chabacano in Luzon stayed on a little longer. These are found in the Ermita district of Manila known as Ermitense dialect (Spanish Criollo), Cavite City known as Caviteñ dialect (Spanish and Tagalog) and Ternate known as Bahra dialect (Spanish-Portuguese, Tagalog and Malay). These Chavacano speakers, were decimated during the Japanese occupation, easy targets because of their lighter skin and obviously Western tongue.\n\nThe Chavacanos de Zamboanga o Zamboangueño, however, are rooted in the Spanish-Jesuit settlement that grew around Fuerte de San Jose established in 1635. The Zamboangueño Chavacano of today is the result of centuries of cultural interaction and intermarriage between and among three (3) main racial/ethnic groups: (1) Visayan, specifically the original 1,000 Cebuanos brought in from Cebu to build the Spanish fortress (as well as the many Cebuanos and Ilongos who followed soon after), (2) the Christianized natives, mostly Subanen, Tau Laut (Samal) and Yakan converted and tended to by the enterprising Jesuits; and (3) Castilians (Spaniards, Mexicans and Peruvians). Later infusions by other languages such as Ilocanos Tagalogs, Sama, Badjau, Suluanon Tausug, et al. in the country and around the world further enriched the Zamboangueño Chavacano language.\n\nOf all these, the Spanish culture had the strongest impact – about 80% of Zamboangueño culture is anchored on España and its three centuries of presence. The greatest number of Zamboangueño profess the Catholic faith, hewing closely to their avowedly Hispanic heritage.\n\nThe Zamboangueños inhabit the northern coasts of the island, mostly residing in the urban centers of Isabela and Lamitan cities, they are joined by other Christian ethnolinguistic groups in these areas, usually the Bisaya Sugbuanon (Cebuano), Bisaya-Ilonggo, Ilocano and Tagalog. They own most of the agricultural lands on the island, and is the group with the highest literacy, highest per capita incomes, and lowest poverty incidence on the island.\n\nZamboangueño customs are based on Spanish and European notions of patriarchal authority, etiquette, familial obligation, as well as a feeling of superiority - characterized by excessive pride, vanity, jealousy, boastfulness, and snobbishness - over their less-Westernized neighbors. They are mostly devout Roman Catholics.\n\nZamboangueño courtship traditions are elaborate and regulated by a long list of required social graces. For example, a perfectly respectable Zamboangueño gentleman would not sit unless permitted to do so by the woman’s parents, he then had to endure questions pertaining to his lineage, credentials, and occupation. Finally, the courtship curfew, and the need to cultivate the goodwill of all the members of the woman’s family were paramount considerations before any headway could be made in pursuing a Zamboangueña senorita's hand in marriage.\n\nZamboangueño songs and dances are derived primarily from Spanish/Iberian performances. Specifically, the Jota Zamboangueña, a Zamboangueño version of the quick-stepping flamenco with bamboo clappers in lieu of Spanish castanets, are regularly presented during fiestas and formal \"tertulias\" or other Zamboangueño festivities.\n\nLikewise, Zamboangueño traditional costumes are closely associated with Spanish formal dress. Men wear close-necked jackets, \"de baston\" pants, and European style shoes, complete with the de rigueur \"bigotillos\" (mustache). More recently, Chavacano men have adapted to wearing the formal Barong Tagalog, worn by men throughout the Philippines. Zamboangueño women claim ownership of the \"mascota\", a formal gown with a fitting bodice, her shoulders draped demurely by a luxuriously embroidered, though stiff, panuelo and fastened at the breast by a brooch or a medal. The skirt tapers down from the waist but continues on to an extended trail called the \"cola\". The \"cola may be held on one hand as the lady walks around, or it may likewise by pinned on the waist or slipped up a cord (belt) that holds the dainty \"abanico\" or purse.\n\nOf late, the Zamboangueños de Basilan have acquired more modern tastes in food, clothing and customs, usually based on the generally preferred American/Western model. The traditional Zamboangueño dress has been limited to formal functions, replaced by the more common shirt, denim jeans and sneakers for men, and shirts, blouses, skirts or pants, and heeled shoes for women. Likewise, Taglish, a mix of Tagalog and English is increasingly accepted as a modern and convenient variant of either the more difficult (for Zamboangueño) Tagalog or the more formal English. An even more confusing mix of Tag-lish and Zamboangueño Chavacano is likewise spoken especially by the younger generations of Zamboangueño.\n\n"}
{"id": "412990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412990", "title": "Deportation", "text": "Deportation\n\nDeportation is the expulsion of a person or group of people from a place or country. The term \"expulsion\" is often used as a synonym for deportation, though expulsion is more often used in the context of international law, while deportation is more used in national (municipal) law.\n\nDefinitions of deportation apply equally to nationals and foreigners. Nonetheless, in the common usage the expulsion of foreign nationals is usually called deportation, whereas the expulsion of nationals is called extradition, banishment, exile, or penal transportation. For example, in the United States:\n\n\"Strictly speaking, transportation, extradition, and deportation, although each has the effect of removing a person from the country, are different things, and have different purposes. Transportation is by way of punishment of one convicted of an offense against the laws of the country. Extradition is the surrender to another country of one accused of an offense against its laws, there to be tried, and, if found guilty, punished. Deportation is the removal of an alien out of the country, simply because his presence is deemed inconsistent with the public welfare and without any punishment being imposed or contemplated either under the laws of the country out of which he is sent or of those of the country to which he is taken.\"\n\nExpulsion is an act by a public authority to remove a person or persons against his or her will from the territory of that state. A successful expulsion of a person by a country is called a deportation.\n\nAccording to the European Court of Human Rights, collective expulsion is any measure compelling non-nationals, as a group, to leave a country, except where such a measure is taken on the basis of a reasonable and objective examination of the particular case of each individual non-national of the group. Mass expulsion may also occur when members of an ethnic group are sent out of a state regardless of nationality. Collective expulsion, or expulsion en masse, is prohibited by several instruments of international law.\n\nDeportations widely occurred in ancient history.\n\nDeportation was practiced as a policy toward rebellious people in Achaemenid Empire. The precise legal status of the deportees is unclear; but ill-treatment is not recorded. Instances include:\n\nUnlike in the Achaemenid and Sassanian periods, records of deportation are rare during the Arsacid Parthian period. One notable example was the deportaion of the Mards in Charax, near Rhages (Ray) by Phraates I. The 10,000 Roman prisonors of war after the Battle of Carrhae appear to have been deported to Alexandria Margiana (Merv) near the eastern border in 53 BC, who are said to married to local people. It is hypothesized that some of them founded the Chinese city of Li-Jien after becoming soldiers for the Hsiung-nu, but this is doubted.\n\nHyrcanus II, the Jewish king of Judea, was settled among the Jews of Babylon in Parthia after being taken as captive by the Parthian-Jewish forces in 40 BC.\n\nRoman POWs in the Antony's Parthian War may have suffered deportation.\n\nDeportation was widely used by the Sasanians, especially during the wars with the Romans.\n\nDuring Shapur I's reign, the Romans (including Valerian) who were defeated at the Battle of Edessa were deported to Persis. Other destinations were Parthia, Khuzestan, and Asorestan. There were cities which were founded and were populated by Romans prisoners of war, including Shadh-Shapur (Dayr Mikhraq) in Meshan, Bishapur in Persis, Wuzurg-Shapur ('Uqbara; Marw-Ḥābūr), and Gundeshapur. Agricultural land were also given to the deportees. These deportations initiated the spread Christianity in the Sassanian empire. In Rēw-Ardashīr (Rishahr; Yarānshahr), Persis, there was a church for the Romans and another one for Carmanians. In the mid-3rd century, Greek-speaking deportees from north-western Syria were settled in Kashkar, Mesopotamia.\n\nAfter the Arab incursion into Persia during Shapur II's reign, he scattered the defeated Arab tribes by deporting them to other regions. Some where deported to Bahrain and Kirman, possibly to both populate these unattractive regions (due to their climate) and bringing the tribes under control.\n\nIn 395 AD, 18,000 Roman populations of Sophene, Armenia, Mesopotamia, Syria, and Cappadocia were captured and deported by the \"Huns\". the prisoners were freed by the Persians as they reached Persia, and were settled in Slōk (Wēh Ardashīr) and Kōkbā (Kōkhē). The author of the text \"Liber Calipharum\" has praised the king Yazdegerd I (399–420) for his treatment of the deportees, who also allowed some to return.\n\nMajor deportations occurred during the Anastasian War.\n\nMajor deportations occurred during the campaigns of Khosrau I from the Roman cities of Sura, Beroea, Antioch, Apamea, Callinicum, and Batnai in Osrhoene, to Wēh-Antiyōk-Khosrow (also known as Rūmagān; in Arabic: al-Rūmiyya). The city was founded near Ctesiphon especially for them, and Khosrow reportedly \"did everything in his power to make the residents want to stay\". The number of the deportees is recorded to be 292,000 in another source.\n\n of the Fourth Geneva Convention prohibits the deportation of people into or out of occupied territory under belligerent military occupation:\n\nAll countries reserve the right to deport persons without right of abode even those who are longtime residents or possess permanent residency. In general, foreigners who have committed serious crimes, entered the country illegally, overstayed or broken the conditions of their visa, or otherwise lost their legal status to remain in the country may be administratively removed or deported. In some cases, even citizens can be deported; Saudi Arabia and the UAE for example. Some western countries also have the ability to deport citizens, if they have another nationality or if they acquire citizenship through fraud.\n\nIn many cases, deportation is done by the government's executive apparatus, and as such is often subject to a simpler legal process (or none), with reduced or no right to trial, legal representation or appeal due to the subject's lack of citizenship. For example, in the 1930s, during the Great Depression, more stringent enforcement of immigration laws were ordered by the executive branch of the U.S. government, which led to the expulsion of up to 2 million Mexican nationals from the United States. In 1954, the executive branch of the U.S. government implemented Operation Wetback, a program created in response to public hysteria about immigration and immigrants from Mexico. Operation Wetback led to the deportation of nearly 1.3 million Mexicans from the United States. Between 2009 and 2016, about 3.2 million people were deported from the United States. Since 1997 U.S. mass deportations of non-citizens particularly convicted felons have risen steadily with the passing into law by the U.S. Congress of the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and Responsibility Act (IIRRA) which brought sweeping changes to the threshold for deportation of convicted felons that have been criticized by some as having human rights abuses. Since this time, the former U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Services (INS) has been transformed into Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and has renamed deportation as \"expedited removal\". The ICE website publishes removal statistics annually on its website. According to recent numbers ICE removed a total of 240,255 aliens in FY 2016, a two percent increase over FY 2015, but a 24 percent decrease from FY 2014.\n\nAlready in natural law of the 18th century, philosophers agreed that expulsion of a nation from the territory that it historically inhabits is not allowable. In the late 20th century, the United Nations drafted a code related to crimes against humanity; Article 18 of the \"Draft Code of Crimes Against the Peace and Security of Mankind\" declares \"large scale\" arbitrary or forcible deportation to be a crime against humanity.\n\nDeportation often requires a specific process that must be validated by a court or senior government official. It should not be confused with administrative removal, which is the process of a country denying entry to individuals at a port of entry and expelling them.\n\nDeportation can also happen within a state, when (for example) an individual or a group of people is forcibly resettled to a different part of the country. If ethnic groups are affected by this, it may also be referred to as population transfer. The rationale is often that these groups might assist the enemy in war or insurrection. For example, the American state of Georgia deported 400 female mill workers during the Civil War on the suspicion they were Northern sympathizers.\n\nDuring World War II, Joseph Stalin (see Population transfer in the Soviet Union) ordered the deportation of Volga Germans, Chechens, Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians and others to areas away from the front, including central and western Soviet Union. Some historians have estimated the number of deaths from the deportation to be as high as 1 in 3 among some populations. On February 26, 2004 the European Parliament characterized deportations of the Chechens as an act of genocide.\n\nThe Soviet Union also used deportation, as well as instituting the Russian language as the only working language and other such tactics, to achieve Russification of its occupied territories (such as the Baltic nations and Bessarabia). In this way, it removed the historical ethnic populations and repopulated the areas with Russian nationals. The deported people were sent to remote, scarcely populated areas or to GULAG labour camps. It has been estimated that, in their entirety, internal forced migrations affected some 6 million people. Of these, some 1 to 1.5 million perished.\n\nAfter World War II approximately 50,000 Hungarians were deported from South Slovakia by Czechoslovak authorities to the Czech borderlands in order to alter the ethnic composition of the region. Between 110,000 and 120,000 Japanese and Japanese Americans on the West Coast, as well as about 3,000 Italian American and about 11,500 German American families, were forcibly resettled from the coasts to internment camps in interior areas of the United States of America by President Franklin Roosevelt.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th century, deportation of union members and labor leaders was not uncommon in the United States during strikes or labor disputes. For an example, see the Bisbee Deportation.\n\nDeporting individuals to a colony is a special case that is neither completely internal nor external. Such deportation has occurred in history. For example, after 1717, Britain deported around 40,000 religious objectors and criminals to America before the practice ceased in 1776. The criminals were sold by jailers to shipping contractors, who then sold them to plantation owners. The criminal was forced to work for the plantation owner for the duration of their sentence. The loss of America as a colony, Australia became the destination for criminals deported to British colonies. More than 160,000 criminals were transported to Australia between 1787 and 1855.\n\nNazi policies openly deported homosexuals, Jews, Poles, and Romani from their native places of residence to Nazi concentration camps or extermination camps set up at a considerable distance from their original residences. This was the policy officially known as the \"Final Solution\". The historical term \"deportation\", occurring frequently instead of the religious term Holocaust in various locations, thus means in effect \"sent to their deaths\" — as distinct from deportations in other times and places.\n\nAn estimated 120,000 Serbs were deported from the Independent State of Croatia to German-occupied Serbia, and 300,000 fled by 1943.\n\nAlexander Berkman, Emma Goldman, C.L.R. James, Claudia Jones, Fritz Julius Kuhn, Lucky Luciano, and Anna Sage were all deported from the United States by being arrested and brought to the federal immigration control station on Ellis Island in New York Harbor and, from there, forcibly removed from the United States.\n\nIn literature, deportation appears as an overriding theme in the 1935 novel, \"Strange Passage\" by Theodore D. Irwin.\nFilms depicting or dealing with fictional cases of deportation are many and varied. Among them are \"Ellis Island\" (1936), \"Exile Express\" (1939), \"Five Came Back\" (1939), \"Deported\" (1950), and \"Gambling House\" (1951). More recently, (2002) treated the issue of U.S. deportation to the Caribbean post-1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "47199257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47199257", "title": "Digital Visitor and Resident", "text": "Digital Visitor and Resident\n\nThe Digital Visitor and Resident (V&R) model provides a framework to depict how user preference and habit motivates engagement with technology and the web. V&R is commonly described as a continuum, with two modes of online engagement at either end, making a separation between different approaches to engagement. People operating in Visitor mode have a defined goal or task, and select an appropriate online tool to meet their needs as they arise. For example, using a smartphone to search the internet for directions to a local bookstore, thus finding a particular piece of information online and then going offline to complete the task. There will be little in terms of social visibility or trace when online in Visitor mode. People operating in Resident mode are online to connect to, or to be with, other people. For example, posting to the wall in Facebook, tweeting, blogging, or posting comments on blogs. The web supports the projection of their identity and facilitates relationships. In other words, Residents live a percentage of their lives online. Unlike the Visitor mode, there will be online visibility and presence when in Resident mode. It is very common for individuals to engage online in a mixture of Visitor and Resident modes depending on what they are trying to achieve.\n\nMarc Prensky's notions of digital natives and digital immigrants has had a lasting influence on how educational institutions perceive students and technology. However, Prensky's model has been challenged by other researchers who have debated its parameters. One of these new models is the V&R project. It contrasts with Presky's digital native in that it rejects hard divisions based on the age of the user, and instead focuses on the user's desired level of engagement.\n\nThe Visitor-Resident continuum illustrates the range of possible modes of engagement individuals now have available to them through the web. The corresponding Digital Visitors and Residents mapping is a tool used by educators and librarians for exploring how their institutional users are engaging with the services they provide. By having students or users map their activity, they can create a picture of their overall engagement. Mapping also can be used to gain a picture of the overall digital presence of a group or department when bringing together and overlaying multiple maps.\n\nThe V&R project explored learners' motivations behind different types of engagement with the digital environment, when seeking information. The investigation focused on the sources learners turn to in order to gather information, and which on- and off-line spaces they choose to interact in as part of the learning process. The study used the Digital Visitors and Residents framework to map learners' modes of engagement in both personal and institutional contexts. The project assessed whether individual approaches shift according to the learners' educational stage or whether they develop practices/literacies in early stages that remain largely unchanged as they progress through their educational career. Learners from both the United Kingdom and the United States participated in the project.\n\nThe V&R project used both quantitative and qualitative methods for a mixed methods approach. The qualitative method of semi-structured interviews, sometimes accompanied by monthly diaries and follow-up interviews, was used to create a rich, descriptive longitudinal study of preselected individuals who represent the four educational stages (Emerging, Establishing, Embedding, and Experiencing). Findings, to date, indicate that behavior patterns vary by the participants' educational stage rather than by their age, which varies within each stage. This categorization, by educational stages rather than age, contrasts with Prensky's \"natives and immigrants\" paradigm. However, the V&R notion reflects that individual choices about technology and information seeking derive from context— that is, from individuals' educational and professional priorities — rather than from their age.\n\nThe findings also indicate that people still rely on other people to get information, especially those within their personal networks. Individuals make decisions based on convenience within the context of their information needs and the situation within which the need arises. Web-based functionalities are the expected norm for services by many people, as the sources that people chose are overwhelmingly digital. Interviewees mentioned search engines and social media sites far more often than physical places, when looking for information. This reliance on digital spaces coexists with a persistent need to be in contact with other people both online and face to face. Individuals expect to use their own technology to connect with institutional (and other) resources, and to engage in Resident modes of behavior. There is also an underlying perception, particularly by US students, that sources such as Wikipedia should be avoided, creating a “learning black market” where these sources are covertly used and not mentioned. Mentions of the free web, as represented by major media sites and Wikipedia, also far outnumbered mentions of university databases or course management systems such as Moodle, even among graduate students. Participants in all of the educational stages frequently mentioned convenience/ease of use as an important factor in obtaining information.\n\nUndoubtedly, people seek what they need within their existing relationships, and as they move through the educational stages, their networks are increasingly populated with people who have relevant subject expertise. By the time individuals become faculty members, calling a \"friend\" about an article indefinitely means the friend is also an expert in the field. Relationships are a major factor in how individuals get information and whom they choose for collaboration. The desire to make contact with others also motivates people to engage with technology.\n\nServices and systems need to be embedded into individual's workflow. Therefore, the institution should provide a broad range of tools for gathering information and create simple and convenient interface designs. Institutions should also eliminate any barriers between information discovery and access, along with the promotion and marketing of services academic communities. Institutions should use individual Internet practices as a guide to linking institutional resources to those on the open web by conversing with their academic constituencies and using what they already know about people using Wikipedia. It is also important to ensure that the library, or institution, has a diverse presence in digital and physical spaces, and engages in innovative strategies for making library collections come to life, using social media.\n\nThe infoKit draws on the findings and methods of the Jisc/OCLC funded Digital Visitors and Residents (V&R) project which is underpinned by an alternative to Prensky's typing of technology users. It contains advice on evaluating the services you offer to your users. The focus is primarily on digital/online services but set within the broader context of more traditional services, exploring the relationship between the two.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43689550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43689550", "title": "Digital phobic", "text": "Digital phobic\n\nDigital phobic is an informal phrase used to describe a reluctance to become fully immersed in the digital age for being fearful of how it might negatively change or alter everyday life.\nThe fast-paced development of the digital world in the twenty-first century has contributed to the digital divide becoming a very real problem for a segment of the population for whom a lack of education of, interest in, or access to digital devices has left them excluded from the technological world and fearful of its growing omnipresence.\n\nDigital phobic is part of a growing dictionary of digital vocabulary exploring the social impact of the technological age. The phrase considers the fears associated with technological evolution and change, and acknowledges the possibility of exclusion as a result of a rising reliance on technology in day-to-day life.\n\nEveryday use of technology has increased dramatically since the turn of the century, significantly impacting both those embracing technological change as well as those reluctant to be a part of it.\n\nA sharp rise in technological innovations during the 21st century has been responsible for changing much of the way we work, socialize, and learn – all of which can be at the foundation of distrust in the technological age. Psychologists, academics and researchers have begun to consider the base of these fears and consider the social, cultural and environmental circumstances which might catalyze someone to becoming 'digital phobic'.\n\nTechnophobia is used to discuss a fear of advanced technology in a formal capacity and can stem from a number, and combination of, concerns. With the oncoming of the digital age, worries have broadened from the very earliest fears that technology would eradicate artisanship to concerns over data protection, financial security, identity theft, technical inability and invasion of privacy.\n\nThere is no exhaustible list of reasons cited for fearing the digital world and, whilst research into both the cause and consequence of developing a digital phobia remains in its infancy, the presence of digital phobia regardless contributes towards an increasingly comprehensive picture of a series of profiles among digital users.\nRecent research from Foresters, an international financial services organization, found 2% of the UK population to fall into this category of internet user. A further breakdown of this statistic, sees the percentage of users in development of a digital phobia increase, with 4% fearful of online shopping for worrying that someone will steal their card details, and 12% fearful that using social media will make it easier for people to find their personal details.\n\nWhen asked to reason their attitude towards technology as part of this survey, a larger percentage of the UK population were revealed to be fearful of the impact it could be having on more traditional means of doing things. 31% believed technology was preventing us from communicating properly, while 32% thought advances in technology will result in long-held traditions being lost.\n\nThis fear has only been exacerbated over time as more and more data-holding, services and opportunities are transferred to the digital realm, and both the perceived and real nature of security and vulnerability risks increases. Worrying levels of time spent on devices, the invasion of privacy or the possible misuse or abuse of personal data entrusted to online sources are all contributing towards the development of a digital phobia among a proportion of the population.\n\nConcerns about the negative, exclusionary or divisive consequences of living within a digital society are being voiced from various global platforms. April 2014 research conducted by Pew Research Center, in association with Smithsonian Magazine, revealed concerns about anticipated technological developments over the next half-century. 30% of Americans surveyed feared that technological changes would lead to a future in which people are worse off than they are at the time of being surveyed. Considered amid reports of dis-interest in the internet among Japan's residents despite its reputation as a high-tech nation, these reports contribute towards a growing understanding that high-tech advancements are not universally celebrated. Moreover, the May 2014 \"right to be forgotten\" ruling put in place in the European Union which allows internet users to request for their internet history to be un-searchable if deemed incorrect, outdated or irrelevant, and the thousands of requests received in the first few days following its announcement documents a, perhaps previously hidden, widespread fear of leaving a digital footprint and/or being falsely represented online.\n\nDigital phobia is part of a wider societal conversation on how we relate to, trust in, and interact with technology and considers the potentially negative implications of what otherwise appears to be a positive advancement of the modern world. \nThis phrase has been developed by Foresters, the international financial services organisation, for the purpose of describing attitudes to technology among the UK population.\n\nDeveloped within a digital vocabulary consisting of four other phrases (digital addict, digital omnivore, digital agnostic, digital denier), digital phobic is part of a scale of social description for online behavior within the digital age.\n\nThe phrase has been used as part of discussion on the more general use of technology within the 21st century and the importance of striking a balance between time spent on and offline. Research conducted by Foresters in association with Tech Timeout, a social communications initiative considering the role of technology in contemporary society, formed the basis of the descriptor and identified the key traits of each type of digital user based on answers from over 1,000 UK respondents. \nBoth anecdotal and research-based evidence suggests categories of internet use, whilst they cannot be linearly divided, are able to loosely describe attitudes to technology in society. The developed phrases are able to be used to greater understand and contextualize how new and existing technology is viewed and have been cited in international online newspapers and blog posts.\n\nWhilst this phrase and definition were developed specifically from research on UK technology-users, the phrase is not UK-specific and is designed to be indicative of a global community of technology users who share in these characteristics.\n\nDigital phobia presents a real and pressing problem in the modern world where technology has become a central and essential resource. Internet culture has developed to become a part of the fabric of everyday life and is now even considered part of the make-up of national identity with a country's internet use and digital footprint an important modern index for international comparison, often associated with development and modernity.\n\nThe consequences of non-participation in the digital world are far reaching, and can affect the economic, cultural, social, occupational and educational life of a non-user. For example, in 2009 Price Waterhouse Coopers estimated that UK households offline are missing out on savings of £560 a year which could be saved if shopping or paying for bills online. Furthermore, in the United States older people without internet access or the skills to make the most of it are considered a disadvantaged proportion of the population as, amongst other important resources, vital healthcare information and initiatives conducted online are unavailable to those not a part of the digital world.\n\nHeightened fears of how technology may be affecting the human population stems from a, for some very logical, fear of how technology is adapting the world we live in and at the pace and price with which it is doing so. With such a significance placed on online participation, concerns about the role of the internet in everyday life are not unfounded and not exclusive to those who prefer to stay away from the internet, avoid certain activities online, or use the internet without enthusiasm and only as necessitated.\n\nA survey conducted by security firm Avira identified 84% of people fear social networking sites will steal or misuse their personal information, demonstrating the net majority of internet users share, at least partially, in distrusting the digital world. Whilst many will, despite this fear, adopt cautious optimism and still use social networking as part of their everyday lives this high percentage serves to demonstrate that a fear significant enough for some to avoid readily using online and digital services is a fear shared by a large number of internet users.\n\nWhilst some digital phobics have preferred to remain distanced from technology due to hypothetical concerns others have attempted to join in societal interest but find themselves unable to stay caught up with new technology or would like to see its progression halted as evolution of the digital world has reached new speeds. The 2013 Oxford Internet Survey recognizes this concern among UK users, identifying distinct categories of both non-users and ex-users of internet-based technology who, for a variety of reasons, have discontinued or refuse to access the online world. This is further supported by results from a 2013 survey of internet use in America which found 32% of non-internet users avoiding the online world because of finding the internet difficult or frustrating to use, being physically unable or worried about other issues such as viruses, threat of hacking or spam – a figure considerably higher than in earlier years.\n\nConcern over the presence of a digital divide, whether locally or globally, is only exacerbated by the knowledge that access to many government and council services, job applications, and social and cultural resources are now largely internet based. Internet access has become a hurdle in contemporary society which, for those without the necessary desire to learn or knowledge of internet-based systems, can be difficult to navigate around, often resulting in key services and vital resources being less easily accessible, leaving non-users feeling isolated. Private and government campaigns to tackle this issue further demonstrate the severity and long-lasting impact of having a proportion of the population disinclined or disinterested in going online.\n\nAs the online world becomes saturated, device options for connecting to the internet vary and news of technological inventions goes viral the exponential growth of the technological world is only contributing towards a growing number of 'digital phobic' tech-users amongst the global population.\n\nDigital phobia has had a negative impact on the field of education. Some teachers have expressed a fear that new and advanced technology is supplanting them as the masters of their fields of study and a study of teachers in Wilmington, Delaware has shown that educators in this area are acclimating to the new technology in their classrooms at a slower pace. The local researchers believe that there are many factors why that is the case and some of the things they have found are things such as a lack of technological education by the teachers, and also the lack of time, or incentive to adjust to the new technology. University Larry Cuban has stated that \"The introduction of computers into school was supposed to improve academic achievement , and alter how teachers taught. Neither has occurred.\"\n\nThe constant infusion of new technology has many teachers fearing that they are losing their classroom. This new technology is essentially diminishing the role of a teacher in the classroom.\n\nResearchers believe that educators are slow to adapt to technology because they aren't given time to acclimate to the new technology, causing them to hesitate to use it in the classroom and express fear that these technologies may interfere with genuine learning particularly in humanities and creative subjects. In an article for the \"New Media Reader,\" Theodor H. Nelson wrote that people are opposed to the computer because they believe it is \"cold\" and \"inhuman\", but a human can be just as inhuman and maybe even more so than the actual machine itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4111408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4111408", "title": "Faux queen", "text": "Faux queen\n\nA faux queen, bio queen, diva queen or female queen is a female performance artist who adopts the style typical of male drag queens. A faux queen may be jocularly described as \"a drag queen trapped in a woman's body\". Other descriptions include \"biologically-challenged\" drag queen, \"female female impersonator\", or \"female impersonator impersonator\". Like traditional drag queens and drag kings, faux queens play with traditional gender roles and gender norms to educate and entertain. Faux queens can appear alongside drag kings at lesbian drag shows and are interchangeable with \"regular\" (male) drag queens as emcees, performers, hostesses, and spokesmodels. \nFor some it can be a way to redefine postmodern feminism; faux queen Ms. Lucia Love stated, \"Drag queens would be nowhere without women.\" For others it simply is about dressing up and having fun. In the words of faux queen Hoku Mama Swamp \"I was born to love faggots, queens, and trannies, and have slowly been morphing into them since childhood.\"\n\nIn San Francisco, the first ever Faux Queen pageant was produced as a benefit by Diet Popstitute and the first title holder was Coca Dietetica aka Laurie Bushman. The Klubstitute Kollective was formed after Diet Popstitute's death to continue to raise funds and provide a space for the performers who, at the time, weren't always welcome in regular drag venues. Pageant organizer Ruby Toosday had \"friends who got fired (from drag clubs) for being women...it seemed like we had definitely hit a nerve. Contestants were judged on drag, talent, and personality by an all-star panel of judges and the winner helped \"femcee\" the following year. The pageants were held from 1996 to 2005. The Faux Queen Pageant was resurrected in 2012 by former title holder Bea Dazzler, and will continue to be a yearly competition in San Francisco.\n\nFauxnique (dancer & performance artist Monique Jenkinson) became the first faux queen to win a major drag pageant—competing against male or MTF drag queens—when she was crowned Miss Trannyshack 2003. From Bust Magazine: \"'(drag) comes down to a sort of self-awareness, a self-consciousness about playing around with femininity,' says Fauxnique. She adds that while drag for her is primarily about performance, it's also a 'rejection of traditional oppressive forms of masculinity—and that's part of an affinity with gay men as well. I wouldn't say every faux queen is a feminist, but I would say that a part of them is in some way.'\"\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, Russian-born Brazilian faux queen Elke Maravilha became a popular TV personality after participating as a judge in Chacrinha and Silvio Santos talent shows. According to her, \"many people think I am a transvestite. When they ask me this, I jokingly reply that I'm a man indeed. And of the most gifted ones\".\n\nThe comedy films \"Connie and Carla\" and \"Victor Victoria\" both centre on faux queens, but the main characters of both films are women who are forced by circumstance to work as faux queens. They keep their gender a secret and impersonate men when off-stage, quite unlike their real-life counterparts.\n\n\nExample of an FTM \"Faux Queen\" Persona How to Work It - TranÀpus Rex\n"}
{"id": "15622490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15622490", "title": "Francization of Brussels", "text": "Francization of Brussels\n\nThe Francization of Brussels refers to the evolution, over the past two centuries, of this historically Dutch-speaking city into one where French has become the majority language and lingua franca. The main cause of this transition was the rapid assimilation of the Flemish population, amplified by immigration from France and Wallonia.\n\nThe rise of French in public life gradually began by the end of the 18th century, quickly accelerating as the new capital saw a major increase in population following Belgian independence. Dutch — of which standardization in Belgium was still very weak — could not compete with French, which was the exclusive language of the judiciary, the administration, the army, education, high culture and the media. The value and prestige of the French language was so universally acknowledged that after 1880, and more particularly after the turn of the century, proficiency in French among Dutch-speakers increased spectacularly.\n\nAlthough the majority of the population remained bilingual until the second half of the 20th century, the original Brabantian dialect was often no longer passed on from one generation to another, leading to an increase of monolingual French-speakers from 1910 onwards. This language shift weakened after the 1960s, as the language border was fixed, the status of Dutch as an official language was confirmed, and the economic center of gravity shifted northward to Flanders.\n\nHowever, with the continuing arrival of immigrants and the post-war emergence of Brussels as a center of international politics, the relative position of Dutch continued to decline. Simultaneously, as Brussels' urban area expanded, a further number of Dutch-speaking municipalities in the Brussels periphery also became predominantly French-speaking. This phenomenon of expanding Francization — dubbed \"oil slick\" by its opponents — is, together with the future of Brussels, one of the most controversial topics in Belgian politics.\n\nAround the year 1000, the County of Brussels became a part of the Duchy of Brabant (and therefore of the Holy Roman Empire) with Brussels as one of the four capitals of the Duchy, along with Leuven, Antwerp, and 's-Hertogenbosch. Dutch was the sole language of Brussels, as was the case in the other three cities. Not all of Brabant, however, was Dutch-speaking. The area south of Brussels, around the town of Nivelles, was a French-speaking area roughly corresponding to the modern province of Walloon Brabant.\n\nInitially in Brussels as well as other parts of Europe, Latin was used as an official language. From the late 13th century, people began to shift usage to the vernacular. This occurrence took place in Brussels and then in other Brabantian cities, which had all eventually transformed by the 16th century. Official city orders and proclamations were thenceforth gradually written in Middle Dutch. Until the late 18th century, Dutch remained the administrative language of the Brussels area of the Duchy of Brabant. As part of the Holy Roman Empire, Brabantian cities enjoyed many freedoms, including choice of language. Before 1500, there were almost no French documents in the Brussels city archives. By comparison the cities in the neighboring County of Flanders such as Bruges, Ghent, Kortrijk and Ypres the percentage of French documents in city archives fluctuated between 30% and 60%. Such high level of French influence had not yet developed in the Dutch-speaking areas of the Duchy of Brabant, including Brussels.\n\nAfter the death of Joanna, Duchess of Brabant, in 1406, the Duchy of Brabant became a part of the Duchy of Burgundy and the use of the French language slowly increased in the region. In 1477, Burgundian duke Charles the Bold perished in the Battle of Nancy. Through the marriage of his daughter Mary of Burgundy to Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I, the Low Countries fell under Habsburg sovereignty. Brussels became the capital of the Burgundian Netherlands, also known as the Seventeen Provinces. After the death of Mary in 1482 her son Philip the Handsome succeeded as the Duke of Brabant. In 1506 he became the king of Castile, and hence the period of the Spanish Netherlands began.\n\nAfter 1531, Brussels was known as the Princely Capital of the Netherlands. After the division of the Netherlands resulting from the Eighty Years' War and in particular from the fall of Antwerp to the Spanish forces, the economic and cultural centers of the Netherlands migrated to the northern Dutch Republic. About 150,000 people, mainly stemming from the intellectual and economic elites, fled to the north. Brabant and Flanders were engulfed in the Counter-Reformation, and the Catholic priests continued to perform the liturgy in Latin.\n\nDutch was seen as the language of Calvinism and was thus considered to be anti-Catholic. In the context of the Counter-Reformation, many clerics of the Low Countries had to be educated at the French-speaking University of Douai. However, Dutch was not utterly excluded in the religious domain. For instance, Ferdinand Brunot reported that, 1638 in Brussels, the Jesuits \"preached three times a week in Flemish and twice in French\". While Dutch became standardized by the Dutch Republic, dialects continued to be spoken in the south. As in other places in Europe during the 17th century, French grew as a language of the nobility and upper class of society. The languages used in the central administration during this time were both French and, to a lesser extent, Spanish. Some French-speaking nobility established themselves in the hills of Brussels (in the areas of Coudenberg and Zavel), bringing with them primarily French-speaking Walloon personnel. This attracted a considerable number of other Walloons to Brussels who came either in search of work. This Walloon presence led to the adoption of Walloon words in the Brussels flavor of Brabantian Dutch, but the Walloon presence was still too small to prevent them from being assimilated into the Dutch-speaking majority.\n\nFollowing the Treaty of Utrecht, the Spanish sovereignty over the Southern Netherlands was transferred to the Austrian branch of the House of Habsburg. This event started the era of the Austrian Netherlands.\n\nIn the 18th century, there were already complaints about the waning use of Dutch in Brussels, which had been reduced to the status of \"street language\". There were various reasons for this. The repressive policies of the Habsburgs after the division of the Low Countries and the following exodus of the intellectual elite towards the Dutch Republic left Flanders bereft of its social upper class. After the end of the 17th century Dutch Golden Age and the Dutch Republic went into decline, Dutch lost even more prestige as a language for politics, culture, and business. Meanwhile, French culture was spreading fast. For instance, the La Monnaie Theater showed 95% of plays in French by the middle of the 18th century. During the War of the Austrian Succession, between 1745 and 1749, Brussels was under French rule. Under these circumstances, especially after 1780, French became the adopted language of much of the Flemish bourgeoisie, who were later pejoratively labelled \"Franskiljons\" (loosely: \"little Frenchies\"). The lower classes got progressively poorer, and, by 1784, 15% of the population was in poverty. The small French-speaking minority was quite affluent and constituted the social upper class.\n\nThe percentage of the Brussels population using French in public life was between 5 and 10 percent in 1760, increasing to 15 percent in 1780. According to authenticated archives and various official documents, it appears that a fifth of municipal declarations and official orders were written in French. Twenty years later this rose to a quarter; however, over half of the official documents in French originated in the French-speaking bourgeoisie, who made up just a tenth of the population. In 1760 small businesses and artisans wrote only 4 percent of their documents in French; by 1780 this had risen to 13 percent. In private life, however, Dutch was still by far the most-used language. For the Austrian Habsburg administration French was the language of communication, although the communiqué from the Habsburgs was seldom seen by commoners of Brussels.\n\nFollowing the , the Low Countries were annexed by the French Republic, ending Habsburg rule in the region. Catholics were heavily repressed by the French, and the French instituted heavy-handed policies that completely paralyzed the economy. Within this period of systematic exploitation, about 800,000 inhabitants fled the Southern Netherlands, and the population of Brussels decreased from 74,000 in 1792 to 66,000 in 1799. The French occupation led to further suppression of Dutch across the country, including its abolition as an administrative language. With the motto \"one nation, one language\", French became the only accepted language in public life, as well as in economic, political, and social affairs. The measures of the successive French governments and in particular the 1798 massive conscription into the French army were particularly unpopular within the Flemish segment of the population and caused the Peasants' War. The Peasant's War is often seen as the starting point of the modern Flemish movement. From this period until the 20th century, Dutch was seen in Belgium as a language of the poor and illiterate. In Flanders, as well as other areas in Europe, the aristocracy quickly adopted French. The French occupation laid the foundations for a Francization of the Flemish middle class aided by an exceptional French-language educational system.\n\nIn the beginning of the 19th century the Napoleonic Office of Statistics found that Dutch was still the most frequently spoken language in both the Brussels arrondissement and Leuven. An exception included a limited number of districts within the city of Brussels, where French had become the most used language. In Nivelles, Walloon was the most spoken language. Inside of the Small Ring of Brussels, the pentagon, French was the leading language of street markets and of districts such as Coudenberg and Sablon, while Dutch dominated in the harbor, the Schaarbeeksepoort area, and the Leuvensepoort area. The first city walls were gradually dismantled during the 15th century to the 17th century, and the outer second walls (where the Small Ring now stands), were demolished between 1810 and 1840, so that the city could grow and incorporate the surrounding settlements.\n\nImmediately after the French invasion, the use of Dutch was forbidden in the city hall of Brussels. The Francization rules, instituted to unify the state, were aimed at the citizens who were to assume power from the nobility as was done in the French Revolution. However, the French conquerors rapidly understood it was not possible to force local populations, speaking languages very different from French, to suddenly use French. The Francization of the Dutch-speaking parts of the Low Countries therefore remained limited to the higher levels of the local administration and upper class society. The effect on lower social classes, of whom 60% were illiterate, was small. Life on the streets was greatly affected as, by law, all notices, street names, etc. were required to be written in French, and official documents were to be written solely in French, although \"when needed\", a non-legally-binding translation could be permitted. Simultaneously, businesses from the rural areas were told not to continue operating if they were not proficient in French. In addition, the law stated that all court pleas, sentences, and other legal materials were to be written solely in French, unless practical considerations made this impossible. These measures increased the percentage of official documents written in French from 60% around the start of the 19th century to 80% by 1813. Although mainly used by in higher social circles, a more appropriate measure of actual language use might include an observation of written testaments, three-fourths of which in 1804 were written in Dutch, indicating that the upper classes still mainly used Dutch around the start of the 19th century.\n\nIn 1815, following the final defeat of Napoleon, the United Kingdom of the Netherlands was created by the Congress of Vienna, joining the Southern Netherlands with the former Dutch Republic. Shortly after the formation of the new kingdom, at the request of Brussels businesses, Dutch once again became the official language of Brussels. Nevertheless, the union of the Netherlands and Belgium did little to lessen the political and economic power of French in Flanders, where it remained the language of the aristocracy. Brussels and The Hague were dual capitals of the Kingdom, and in the parliament the Belgian delegates spoke only French. King William I wanted to develop present-day Flanders to the level of the Northern Netherlands, and instituted a wide network of schools in the local language of the people. He made Dutch the single official language of the Flemish provinces, and this was also implemented in bilingual Brabant and Brussels. The Walloon provinces remained monolingually French. The King hoped to make Dutch the sole language of the nation, but the French-speaking citizenry, the Catholic Church, and the Walloons resisted this move. The French-speaking population feared that their opportunities for participation in government were threatened, and that they would become unneeded elements of the new Kingdom. Under pressure from these groups, in 1830 King William I reintroduced a language freedom policy throughout all of present-day Belgium. This nullified the monolingual status of Brussels and the Flemish provinces.\n\nImportant for the later development of the Dutch language was that the Flemish population experienced a certain amount of contact with the northern Standard Dutch during the short reign of the kingdom. The Catholic Church viewed Dutch as a threatening element representative of Protestantism, while the Francophone aristocracy still viewed Dutch as a language subordinate to French. These views helped contribute to the Belgian Revolution and to the creation of an independent and officially monolingual Francophone Kingdom of Belgium, established in 1830. This strong preference for French would have a great influence on language use in Brussels.\n\nAfter the Belgian revolution, the bourgeoisie in Brussels began to use French more and more. Numerous French and Walloon immigrants moved to Brussels, and for the first time in mass numbers the Flemish people began switching to French.\n\nBy October 16, 1830 King William I had already rescinded a policy that named Dutch as the official language of Brussels. The sole official language of the newly created centralized state was French, even though a majority of the population was Flemish. French became the language of the court, the administration, the army, the media, and of culture and education. With more French being spoken, societal progress, culture, and universalism gave it an aura of \"respectibility\". In contrast, Dutch garnered little consideration and was deemed a language for peasants, farmers, and poor workers. In addition to the geographical language border between Flanders and Wallonia, there was in fact also a social language border between the Dutch-speakers and French-speakers. French was the language of politics and economics and a symbol of upward social mobility. French poet Charles Baudelaire, during his short stay in Brussels, complained of the hypocrisy of the bourgeoisie at the time:\n\nThe new Belgian capital remained a mostly Dutch-speaking city, where the inhabitants spoke a local South Brabantian dialect. A minority of French-speaking citizens, mainly those who had immigrated from France during the previous decades, constituted 15% of the population. Despite this, the first mayor of Brussels after the revolution, Nicolas-Jean Rouppe, declared French to be the sole language of administration. The political center of Brussels attracted the economic elite, and Brussels soon acquired French-speaking upper and middle classes. In 1846, 38% of the city declared themselves being French-speaking, while this percentage was 5% in Ghent and 2% in Antwerp. Many supposed French-speakers were actually Flemish bourgeois with Dutch-speaking roots. In 1860, 95% of the Flemish population spoke Dutch, although these people had hardly any economic and political power and deemed a good knowledge of French necessary to attain higher social status and wealth.\n\nBrussels attracted many immigrants from Flanders, where economic strife and hunger were widespread. Native Flemish Brussels residents harbored a sense of superiority over the other Flemish immigrants from the poor countryside, which manifested itself in the decision to speak the \"superior\" French language.\n\nIn two or three generations, the new immigrants themselves began to speak French. A typical family might have Dutch-speaking grandparents, bilingual parents, and French-speaking children. The exclusively French educational system played an important role in this changing language landscape. Dutch was mainly ignored as a school subject. From 1842, Dutch was removed from the first four years of boys' schools, although in later school grades it could be studied. In girls' schools and Catholic schools Dutch was taught even less, even though Dutch was still the native tongue of a majority of the students.\n\nJust after the mayoral inauguration of Charles Buls in 1881, elementary schools that taught Dutch were reopened in 1883. In these schools, the first two years of lessons were given in Dutch, soon after which students transitioned into French-speaking classes. The proposal by Buls was initially poorly received by the local councils, although they were later accepted when studies showed that when students had acquired a good understanding of Dutch, they more easily obtained French speaking skills. The dominance of French in education was not affected, since most schooling in later years was still in French. Because of the authoritative position that French enjoyed in Belgium and the misconceptions of Buls' plan, many Flemish children were still sent to French school in order to better master the language. This was made possible by the idea of \"freedom of the head of household\", which stipulated that parents were allowed to send their children to any school they wished, regardless of the child's mother tongue. Since most pupils were sent to French schools rather than Dutch schools, after the end of the First World War there was not a single Dutch class left in central Brussels. In the thirteen municipalities that constituted the Brussels metropolitan area, there were 441 Dutch classes and 1592 French classes, even though the French-speaking population made up just under one third of the total.\n\nAs a result of the propagation of the bilingual education system, Dutch was no longer being passed down by many Flemish parents to their children. French was beginning to be used more and more as the main language spoken at home by many Flemings. In Flanders, education played less of a role in Francization because most schools continued to teach in Dutch.\n\nDuring the 19th century, many political asylum seekers sought refuge in Brussels, mainly coming from France. The first wave came in 1815 bringing Jacobins and Bonapartists; a second wave came in 1848 bringing French republicans and Orléanists, a third came after the French coup of 1851, and a fourth came in 1871 after the Franco-Prussian War. Asylum seekers and other immigrants also came from other parts of Europe such as Italy, Poland, Germany, and Russia. They preferred to speak French rather than Dutch when they arrived, which further intensified Francization.\n\nAs the capital of the new kingdom, Brussels also attracted a large number of Walloon migrants. In contrast to Flemish citizens of Brussels, who came primarily from the lower social classes, the Walloon newcomers belonged mainly to the middle class. The Walloon and French migrants lived predominantly in the Marollen district of Brussels, where Marols, a mixture of Brabantian Dutch, French, and Walloon, was spoken. Despite the fact that many lower-class Walloons also made their way to Brussels, the perception of French as an intellectual and elite language did not change.\nAdditionally, Brussels received a considerable number of French-speaking members of the Flemish bourgeoisie.\n\nBetween 1830 and 1875 the population of the city of Brussels grew from approximately 100,000 to 180,000; the population of the metropolitan area soared to 750,000 by 1910.\n\nIn contrast to the rest of Flanders, French in Brussels was seen less as a means of oppression but rather as a tool for social progress. In the first decade after the independence of Belgium, the neglect of Dutch language and culture gradually caused increasingly greater dissatisfaction in the Flemish community. In 1856 the \"Grievances Commission\" was established to investigate the problems of the Flemings. It was devoted to making the administration, military, educational system and judicial system bilingual, but was politically ignored. Another group to decry the problems of the Flemings was \"Vlamingen Vooruit\" (\"Flemings Forward\"), founded in 1858 in Saint-Josse-ten-Noode. Members included Charles Buls, mayor of Brussels, and Léon Vanderkindere, mayor of Uccle. Although Brussels was 57 percent Dutch-speaking in 1880, Flemish primary schools were prohibited until 1883. In 1884, the municipal government decided to allow birth, death, and marriage certificates to be written in Dutch. However, only a tenth of the population made use of these opportunities, suggesting that in the minds of Brussels residents, French was the normal way of conducting these matters. In 1889 Dutch was once again allowed in courtrooms, but only for use in oral testimony.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the Flemish movement gained even more strength and demanded Belgium be made bilingual. This proposal was rejected by French-speakers, who feared a \"Flemishification\" of Wallonia as well as the prospect of having to learn Dutch in order to obtain a job in the civil service. The Flemings adapted their goals to the realities of the situation, and devoted themselves to a monolingual Flanders, which Brussels was still socially a part of. The Flemings hoped to limit the spread of French in Flanders by restricting the areas in which French was an official language. In 1873 in the Sint-Jans-Molenbeek district of Brussels, Flemish laborer Jozef Schoep refused to accept a French-language birth certificate. He was ordered to pay a fine of 50 francs. His case generated considerable controversy and shortly thereafter the was introduced, which allowed Dutch to be used by Dutch-speakers in court.\n\nIn general, the Flemish movement in Brussels did not garner much support for its plans regarding the use of Dutch. Each attempt to promote Dutch and limit the expansion of French influence as a symbol of social status was seen as a means to stifle social mobility rather than as a protective measure as it was seen in the rest of Flanders. Whereas in other Flemish cities such as Ghent in which the Flemish laborers were dominated by a French-speaking upper class, in Brussels it was not as easy to make such a distinction because so many Walloons made up a large portion of the working class. The linguistic heterogeneity, combined with the fact that the most of the upper class of workers spoke French, meant that the class struggle for most workers in Brussels was not seen as a language struggle as well. Ever since the start of the 20th century, the workers movement in Brussels defended bilingualism, so as to have a means of emancipation for the local working class. This, along with the educational system, facilitated the Francization of thousands of Brussels residents.\n\nBy the 1870s, most municipalities were administered in French. With the in 1878, a gradual change started to occur. From that point forward, in the provinces of Limburg, Antwerp, West Flanders and East Flanders, and in the arrondissement of Leuven, all public communication was given in Dutch or in both languages. For the arrondissement of Brussels, documents could be requested in Dutch. Nonetheless, by 1900 most large Flemish cities, cities along the language border, and the municipalities of the Brussels metropolitan area were still administered in French.\n\nIn 1921 the territoriality principle was recognized, which solidified the outline of the Belgian language border. The Flemings hoped that such a language border would help to curb the influx of French in Flanders. Belgium became divided into three language areas: a monolingual Dutch-speaking area in the north (Flanders), a monolingual French-speaking area in the south (Wallonia), and a bilingual area (Brussels), even though the majority of Brussels residents spoke primarily Dutch. The municipalities in the Brussels metropolitan region, the bilingual region of Belgium, could freely choose either language to be used in administrative purposes. The town government of Sint-Stevens-Woluwe, which lies in present-day Flemish Brabant, was the only one to opt for Dutch over French.\n\nThe language law of 1921 was elaborated upon by a further law in 1932. Dutch was made an official language within the central government, the (then) four Flemish provinces, as well as the arrondissements of Leuven and Brussels (excepting the Brussels metropolitan area as a whole). The law also stipulated that municipalities on the language border or near Brussels would be required to provide services in both languages when the minority exceeded 30%, and the administrative language of a municipality would be changed if the language minority grew to greater than 50%. This was to be regulated by a language census every ten years, although the validity of the results from Flanders were frequently questioned. In 1932, Sint-Stevens-Woluwe, now a part of the Zaventem municipality, became the first municipality in Belgian history to secede from the bilingual Brussels metro region because the French-speaking minority percentage fell to below 30%. This did not sit well with some French-speakers in Brussels, some of whom formed a group called the \"Ligue contre la flamandisation de Bruxelles\" (League against the Flemishification of Brussels), which campaigned against what they saw as a form of \"Flemish tyranny\". Before the introduction of French as an official language of Ganshoren and Sint-Agatha-Berchem, the group also objected to the bilingual status of Ixelles. The group also strongly defended the \"freedom of the head of household\", a major factor in the process of Francization.\n\nWhile the Brussels metropolitan area grew quickly, the population of the City of Brussels proper declined considerably. In 1910, Brussels had 185,000 inhabitants; in 1925 this number fell to 142,000. Reasons for this depopulation were manifold. First, the fetid stench of the disease-laden Senne river caused many to leave the city. Second, cholera broke out in 1832 and 1848, which led to the Senne being completely covered over. Third, the rising price of property and rental rates caused many inhabitants to search for affordable living situations elsewhere. Higher taxes on patents, which were up to 30% higher than those in neighboring municipalities, stifled economic development and drove up the cost of city living. These higher patent prices were abandoned in 1860. Finally, the industrialization that occurred in the neighboring areas drew workers out of the city. These social changes helped speed the process of Francization in the central city. In 1920, three bordering municipalities, each having a large number of Dutch-speaking inhabitants, were amalgamated into the City of Brussels.\n\nAccording to the language census of 1846, 61% of Brussels residents spoke Dutch and 39% spoke French. The census of 1866 permitted residents to answer \"both languages\", although it was unstated whether this meant \"knowledge of both languages\" or \"use of both languages\", nor whether or not either was the resident's mother tongue. In any case, 39% answered Dutch, 20% French, and 38% \"both languages\". In 1900, the percentage of monolingual French-speakers overtook the percentage of monolingual Dutch-speakers, although this was most likely caused by the growing number of bilingual speakers. Between 1880 and 1890, the percentage of bilingual speakers rose from 30% to 50%, and the number of monolingual Dutch-speakers declined from 36% in 1880 to 17% in 1910. Although the term \"bilingual\" was misused by the government to showcase the large number of French-speakers, it is clear that French gained acceptance in both the public and private lives of Dutch-speaking Brussels residents.\n\nBeyond the city of Brussels, the municipalities of Ixelles, Saint-Gilles, Etterbeek, Forest, Watermael-Boitsfort and Saint-Josse saw the most widespread adoption of the French language over the following century. In Ixelles, the proportion of Dutch monolinguals fell from 54% to 3% between 1846 and 1947, while during in the same time the proportion of monolingual Francophones grew from 45% to 60%. Whereas in 1846 Saint-Gilles was still 83% Dutch-speaking, one hundred years later half of its population spoke only French, and 39% were bilingual. Similarly, Etterbeek evolved from a 97% Dutch-speaking village to an urban neighborhood in which half of its inhabitants spoke only French. The same phenomenon applied to Forest and Watermael-Boitsfort, where they went from completely Dutch-speaking to half monolingual French and half bilingual, with monolingual Dutch-speakers at only 6%. In Saint-Josse-ten-Noode, the proportion of monolingual Dutch-speakers equalled that of French-speakers in 1846, but by 1947 only 6% were monolingual Dutch-speakers, and 40% were monolingual French-speakers.\nIn 1921 the metropolitan area was expanded further. The municipalities of Laken, Neder-Over-Heembeek, and Haren were incorporated into the municipality of Brussels, while Sint-Pieters-Woluwe became part of the bilingual agglomeration by law. After the language census of 1947, Evere, Ganshoren, and Sint-Agatha-Berchem were added to the bilingual agglomeration, although the implementation of this change was postponed until 1954 due to Flemish pressure. This was the last enlargement of the agglomeration, which brought the number of municipalities in Brussels to 19. In the peripheral municipalities of Kraainem, Linkebeek, Drogenbos, and Wemmel, where a French-speaking minority of more than 30% existed, language facilities were set up, although these municipalities officially remain in the Dutch language area.\nThe censuses on the use of languages in the municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region have shown that by 1947 French was becoming the most spoken language. However, in 1947, the percentage of residents declaring themselves bilingual was 45%, the percentage of monolingual Dutch-speakers was 9% and the percentage of monolingual French-speakers was 38%. In practice the bilingual citizens were most of the time bilingual Flemings. They were nevertheless recorded as bilinguals and not as Dutch-speakers.\n\nAfter both a Flemish boycott of the language census of 1960 and two large Flemish protest marches in Brussels, the language border was solidified in 1962 and the recently taken language census was annulled. Various municipalities shifted from one language area to another, such as Voeren, which became part of Flanders, and Comines-Warneton and Mouscron which became part of Wallonia. In both Wezembeek-Oppem and Sint-Genesius-Rode, language facilities were established for French-speakers, who made up just under 30% of the population when the last language census in 1947 was taken. Brussels was fixed at 19 municipalities, thus creating a bilingual enclave in otherwise monolingual Flanders.\n\nBrussels was limited to the current 19 municipalities. Many French-speakers complained that this did not correspond to the social reality, since the language border was based on the results of the 1947 language census and not that of 1960. French-speaking sources claim that in that year, French-speaking minorities had surpassed the 30% threshold in Alsemberg, Beersel, Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, Dilbeek, Strombeek-Bever, Sterrebeek, and Sint-Stevens-Woluwe, in which case French-language facilities should have been established under previous legislation. A political rift developed because French-speakers considered the language facilities as an essential right, while the Flemings saw the facilities as a temporary, transitional measure to allow the French-speaking minorities time to adapt to their Flemish surroundings.\n\nThe division of the country into language areas had serious consequences for education, and the \"freedom of the head of household\" was abolished. Thence, Dutch-speaking children were required to be educated in Dutch and French-speaking children in French. This managed to stem the tide of further Francization in Brussels. Some of the more radical French-speakers such as the Democratic Front of Francophones were opposed to this change and advocated the restoration of the freedom of education.\n\nThe Democratic Front of Francophones (, FDF) was founded in 1964 as a reaction to the fixation of the language border. The FDF decried the limitation of Brussels to 19 municipalities. They demanded free choice of language in the educational system, the freedom for the Brussels metropolitan area to grow beyond the language border and into the unilingual Flanders, and economic opportunities for the metropolitan area that would later comprise the Brussels-Capital Region. The Front accepted that governmental agencies in Brussels would be bilingual, but not that every civil servant working in those agencies be bilingual. The party experienced growing popularity and saw electoral success in the elections of the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nThe FDF objected to a fixed representation of the language groups in the agencies, considering this to be undemocratic. In the predecessor to the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region, for example, a significant number of seats were reserved for Dutch-speakers. A number of French-speakers circumvented this by claiming to be Dutch-speakers, and over a third of the seats reserved for Dutch-speakers were taken by these so-called \"false Flemish\".\n\nWith the fusion of Belgian municipalities in 1976, some primarily French-speaking municipalities joined larger municipalities with Flemish majorities, thereby reducing the number of French-speaking municipalities. Zellik joined Asse, Sint-Stevens-Woluwe and Sterrebeek joined Zaventem, and Strombeek-Bever joined Grimbergen. In addition, several larger municipalities with heavily Flemish population were created, such as Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, Dilbeek, Beersel and Tervuren. The FDF saw this as a motive for the fusion of the municipalities, not a result of it.\n\nAmidst tension throughout the country, the sociolinguistic neglect of Dutch began to fade. The recognition of Dutch as the sole language of Flanders, the expansion of a well-functioning Flemish educational system, the development of the Flemish economy, and the popularization of Standard Dutch were responsible for its revitalization. The Flemish Community saw that if it wanted Dutch to have a prominent place in Brussels, it would need to make investing in Dutch language education its primary concern.\n\nIn 1971, the FDF managed to secure the right for individuals to again be able to choose the language of their education, and the FDF expected that Francization would continue as before. Initially, the effect was a reduction in the number of students enrolled in Flemish schools, falling from 6000 students in elementary school and 16,000 in high school in 1966-1967 to 5000 and 12,000 nine years later. But by that point, the Flemish Centre of Education, created in 1967, had begun its campaign to promote education in Dutch, with its initial target being Dutch-speaking families. In 1976, this task was taken up by the precursor to today's Flemish Community Commission (VGC), which made substantial investments to improve the quality of Dutch language schools. Starting in the 1978-1979 school year, the strategy began to bear fruit, and the number of children enrolled in Flemish daycares began to increase. This translated to an increase in the enrollment in primary schools a few years later. As a result, all young Dutch-speaking children born after the mid-1970s have only gone to Flemish schools. The Francization of Dutch-speakers became more and more rare with time. Nonetheless, foreign immigration continued to tilt the balance in favor of French.\n\nIn the 1980s, the VGC started to concentrate its efforts on bilingual families, though the improvement of the Flemish schools had an unexpected effect; monolingual French-speaking families also began to send their children to Flemish schools. This effect increased bit by bit, as bilingualism began to be thought of as normal. Even today, the Flemish educational system continues to attract those with a first language other than Dutch; in 2005, 20% of students go to Dutch-speaking high schools, and for daycares, that figure reaches 23%. In fact, it has got to the point where those with Dutch as a first language are now a minority in the Flemish schools, and as a result, measures have needed to be taken to sustain the quality of education.\n\nWallonia's economic decline and the use of French by recent immigrants did little to help the prestige of French relative to Dutch. After World War II, the Flemish economy underwent significant growth. Flanders developed a prosperous middle class, and the prestige of Dutch saw an increase.\n\nThose born into a monolingual Dutch family in Brussels had always had a lower level of education than the average for Brussels. By contrast, 30% of the Flemings who had moved to Brussels from elsewhere had a university degree or other post-secondary education, and were highly qualified. For example, since 1970 in Belgium as a whole, there have been more students enrolled in Dutch language universities than French ones. To be called a Dutch-speaker no longer evokes images of lower-class laborers, as it long had. Bilingualism is increasingly a prerequisite for well-paying jobs, and what prestige the Dutch language currently has in Brussels is chiefly for economic reasons. It should be noted that the economic importance of Dutch in Brussels has little to do with the proportion of Brussels that is Dutch-speaking. Rather, it is primarily relations between businesses in Brussels and Flemish businesses, or more generally, with Dutch-speaking businesses as a whole that ensure the economic importance of Dutch in Brussels.\n\nIn 1958, Brussels became the seat of the European Economic Community, which later became the EU, while the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was established in 1967 with its headquarters in Evere. This, combined with economic immigration from southern Europe and later from Turkey, Morocco (a former French colony), and the Congo (a former Belgian colony), changed the makeup of the population of Brussels. Between 1961 and 2006, the number of non-Belgian inhabitants grew from 7% to 56%. The newcomers adopted and spoke French in great numbers, mainly due to the French-speaking African origins of many that came, with many Moroccans and Congolese already possessing proficiency in French at the time of their arrival.\n\nIn general, foreign immigration further reduced the percentage of Dutch-speakers and led to further Francization of the city. This stood in contrast to the first half of the 20th century, however, when the change was Francization of Brussels's existing Flemish inhabitants.\n\nOut of all immigrant groups, Moroccan immigrants used French the most, which gained increasing importance alongside Berber and Moroccan Arabic in their already bilingual community. The Turks held on to their own language, although French also gained importance in their community. Dutch struggled to take hold in these two migrant groups. Children from these communities attended (and often continue to attend) French-language education, and used French in their circles of friends and at home. This evolution is also seen with Portuguese, Spanish, and Italian migrants, who easily adopted French due to its similarity to other Romance languages that many already spoke. The northern Europeans, who are not nearly as numerous, came mainly after the 1980s, make more use of their own languages, such as English and German. When these northern Europeans happened to marry French-speakers, the language spoken at home often became French. In these groups, the long-term effects and trends of language shift are difficult to determine.\n\nBrussels' multicultural and multiethnic character has widened the language situation beyond merely considering Dutch and French. Dutch is patently less well represented than French in the monolingual population. Out of 74 selected Dutch-speakers, only two were found to be monolingual, approximately nine times fewer than in the French-speaking population. Out of the inhabitants of Brussels-Capital region with foreign nationality, in 2000 3% spoke exclusively Dutch at home, compared to 9% who spoke exclusively French. In addition, 16% spoke another language in addition to French at home.\n\nJapanese people residing in Brussels generally encounter the French and English languages at work. All of the schooling options for Japanese national children provide French education, and Marie Conte-Helm, author of \"\", wrote that \"French language education thus becomes, to a greater or a lesser degree, a normal part\" of the everyday lives in Japanese expatriates.\n\nAs the European Union grew, and more foreign diplomats and other international personnel transferred to Brussels, the French-speakers worried that English would become the new lingua franca of the city. This anglicization differed from the previous Francization in that, giving current circumstances, it was not perceived as competing or replacing Dutch. Dutch, which served only as an official language spoken by some at home, was not expected to suffer from the rise in English usage. By contrast, the French-speaking nature of Brussels was seen as a bulwark against the deteriorating position of French as used in the European Union. Now (in 2008) more Brussels inhabitants claim to speak fluent English than fluent Dutch, 35% to 28%, respectively.\n\nIn 2000, both stood at 33%. Thus, the knowledge of Dutch has declined, although knowledge of Dutch is in higher demand in the job market than knowledge of English. Dutch has not been repressed by the influx of English, as only 3% of the English-speakers in Brussels are native speakers. English as a worldwide lingua franca fulfills an increasingly important role in the economic and cultural sphere, and in this sense poses more of a threat to the position of French than Dutch. Now, most of those who speak Dutch, even as a second language, are usually trilingual. Foreign immigration coincided with the flight of city dwellers to the suburbs around Brussels, leading to a permanent, growing French-speaking presence in the Brussels-Capital Region itself.\n\nConte-Helm wrote that in the business sectors and \"to varying degrees, in daily life\" the English language \"serves [the Japanese] well\" since it is understood and may be used in different parts of Belgium.\n\nThe 19 municipalities of Brussels are the only officially bilingual part of Belgium. The creation of a bilingual, full-fledged Brussels region, with its own competencies and jurisdiction, had long been hampered by different visions of Belgian federalism.\nInitially, Flemish political parties demanded Flanders be given jurisdiction over cultural matters, concerned with the dominance of the French language in the federal government. Likewise, as Wallonia was in economic decline, Francophone political parties were concerned with getting economic autonomy for the French-speaking regions to address the situation. The Flemings also feared being in the minority, faced with two other French-speaking regions. They viewed the creation of a separate Brussels region as definitively cutting Brussels off from Flanders, an admission of the loss of Brussels to Francization. Essentially, the Flemings had a vision of Belgium with two parts: a Dutch-speaking part and a French-speaking part, whereas Francophones had a vision with three parts: Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia.\n\nIn 1989, the compromise between these conceptions gave rise to the official creation of the Brussels-Capital Region, and influenced the jurisdictions it was given. It was given its own government, including its own parliament, with 11 seats of the 75 total reserved for Dutch-speakers. This was increased in 2004 to 17 of 89 seats, roughly a fifth of the total. As a concession to the Flemings, of the four ministers of the Brussels-Capital region, half must be Flemish, and of the three more junior Secretaries of State, at least one must be Flemish. The Minister-President is in practice always a francophone, so the cabinet of the Region has 5 French-speaking and 3 Dutch-speaking members.\n\nThe region was placed on equal footing with the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region. Nonetheless, Brussels does not have its own community; rather the Flemish Community and the French Community both have jurisdiction in Brussels. The Flemish Community Commission (VGC) and the French Community Commission (COCOF) were to act on their respective Communities' behalf in Brussels. Brussels divides its funding for the Communities between them, with 20% going to the VGC, and 80% to the COCOF.\n\nIn Drogenbos, Kraainem, Linkebeek, Sint-Genesius-Rode, Wemmel and Wezembeek-Oppem, the six Municipalities with language facilities in the suburbs around Brussels, the proportion of the population that was French-speaking also grew in the second half of the 20th century, and they now constitute a majority. In the administrative arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde, which constitutes those six municipalities and 29 other Flemish municipalities, around 25% of families speak French at home. \nThe Flemish government sees this as a worrying trend, and enacted policies designed to keep the periphery of Brussels Dutch-speaking. One effect of this policy was a very literal interpretation of the linguistic facility laws, including the Peeters directive. This \"circulaire\" stipulates, among other things, that when French-speakers in those six Municipalities with language facilities deal with the government, they can request a French version of documents or publications but need to do so every time they want one; the government is not allowed to register their preference.\n\nIn Brussels's northwestern municipalities, the proportion of Dutch-speakers is high compared to other municipalities in Brussels. It is in these same municipalities that the proportion of non-native Dutch-speakers who speak Dutch is highest, generally in excess of 20%. At the two extremes are Ganshoren, where 25% of non-native speakers speak Dutch, and Saint-Gilles, where Dutch as a language spoken at home has practically disappeared.\n\nThe younger a generation is, the poorer its knowledge of Dutch tends to be. The demographic of those who grew up speaking only Dutch at home, and to a lesser extent those who grew up bilingual, is significantly older than the Brussels average. Between 2000 and 2006, the proportion of monolingual Dutch families shrank from 9.5% to 7.0%, whereas bilingual families shrank from 9.9% to 8.6%. On the other hand, in the same period the number of non-native Dutch-speakers with a good-to-excellent knowledge of Dutch saw an increase. Half of those in Brussels with a good knowledge of Dutch learned the language outside of their family, and this figure is expected to increase. In 2001, 70% of the city had a knowledge of Dutch that was \"at least passable\". In 2006, 28% of those living in Brussels had a good to excellent knowledge of Dutch, while 96% had a good to excellent knowledge of French, and 35% of English. French was found to be spoken at home in 77% of households in Brussels, Dutch in 16% of households, and neither official language was spoken in 16% of households. French is thus by far the best known language in Brussels, and remains the lingua franca of the city.\n\nOf businesses based in Brussels, 50% use French for internal business, while 32% use French and Dutch, the others using a variety of other languages. More than a third of job openings require bilingualism, and a fifth of job openings require knowledge of English. On account of this, it is argued that an increase in knowledge of Dutch in Brussels and Wallonia would significantly improve the prospects of job seekers in those regions. Of advertising campaigns in Brussels, 42% are bilingual French and Dutch, while 33% are in French only, 10% in French and English and 7% in English, French and Dutch. During the day, the percentage of Dutch-speakers in Brussels increases significantly, with 230,000 commuters coming from the Flemish Region, significantly more than the 130,000 coming from the Walloon Region. Many of those coming from the Flemish Region, however, especially from very close to Brussels, are French-speakers.\n\nFrancophones living in Flanders want Flanders to ratify the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, which has been signed by almost every country in Europe, though in Belgium, it has been signed but not ratified (also the case in a handful of others). The Framework would allow Francophones to claim the right to use their own language when dealing with the authorities, bilingual street names, schooling in French, etc. The Framework, however, does not specify what a \"National Minority\" is, and the Flemings do not see the Francophones in Flanders as being one. Flanders is not inclined to approve the Framework, in spite of frequent appeals by the Council of Europe to do so.\n\nIn Flemish circles, there is an ever continuing worry that the status of Dutch in Brussels will continue to deteriorate, and that the surrounding region will undergo even more Francization. On the political level, the division of the bilingual Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde (BHV) electoral and judicial district caused much linguistic strife. The district is composed of the 19 municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region in addition to the 35 municipalities of the Flemish administrative arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde. For elections to the Belgian Senate and to the European Parliament, which are organized by linguistic region, residents from anywhere in the arrondissement can vote for French-speaking parties in Wallonia and Brussels. For elections to the Belgian Chamber of Representatives, which is usually done by province, voters from Halle-Vilvoorde can vote for parties in Brussels, and vice versa. It was feared that, if BHV was divided, the francophones living in Halle-Vilvoorde would no longer be able to vote for candidates in Brussels, and they would lose the right to judicial proceedings in French. If a division were to take place, francophone political parties would demand that the Brussels-Capital Region be expanded, a proposal that is unacceptable to Flemish parties. This issue was one of the chief reasons for the 200-day impasse in Belgian government formation in 2007, and it remained a hotly contested issue between the linguistic Communities, until this issue was resolved mid-2012.\n"}
{"id": "56283455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56283455", "title": "Frøkedal", "text": "Frøkedal\n\nAnne Lise Frøkedal known by her stage name Frøkedal is a folk-pop, singer-songwriter from Norway.\n\nPreviously known as a member of acclaimed Norwegian bands Harry's Gym and \"I Was A King\", in 2015 she debuted as a solo artist. \nReleasing a series of singles and an EP in 2015, she released her debut album \"Hold On Dreamer\" in 2016. The album was later nominated for a Spellemannprisen - also known as the Norwegian Grammys - for best Indie Album Of The Year 2017.\n\nIn 2017, Frøkedal announced her return with the release of singles \"Stranger\", and double single \"LTF/Cracks\".\n\nFrøkedal released her second album, 'How We Made It' on August 31 2018. It received support from The 405, CLASH Magazine and The Line of Best Fit.\n"}
{"id": "556445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=556445", "title": "Good Times with Weapons", "text": "Good Times with Weapons\n\n\"Good Times with Weapons\" is episode 112 of \"South Park\". The first episode of season 8, it originally aired on March 17, 2004. The episode's animation routinely switches from the usual cutout-and-solid-color style to a highly stylized anime theme. Asian-style ambience plays in the background.\n\nIn the episode, the boys are transformed into Japanese warriors after they buy martial arts weapons at a local market. Their sworn enemy, Professor Chaos, confronts them and a highly stylized battle ensues.\n\nThis was also one of ten episodes to be featured on \"South Park: The Hits\" DVD. In addition, it was voted the 2nd best episode of all time by fans in the United States, while being ranked the third best among fans in the United Kingdom. This episode was one of the first to be available in high definition, available on the Xbox 360's Marketplace. A promotional HD DVD was also released exclusively for Best Buy.\n\nThis was the first episode with April Stewart as the bulk of the female characters following Eliza Schneider's departure. The episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker. In 2015, he and co-creator Matt Stone listed it as their second favorite episode of the series.\n\nAt the Park County Fair, the boys come across a vendor selling \"authentic weapons from the Far East\" and are interested in purchasing them. Although the vendor says parental permission is required if the hopeful buyer is under 18 years old, Cartman uses this information to pretend that he, Kenny, Kyle and Stan are orphaned brothers (a ruse the boys have apparently successfully used \"like twelve times\" in the past) and successfully tricks the vendor into giving them the weapons. Stan purchases a pair of Tonfa, Kyle gets nunchaku, Cartman buys a pair of sai, and Kenny purchases (according to Cartman) the only thing he can afford, a pair of \"shaken\"-style shuriken. After showing their weapons off to Craig, they go around town pretending to be ninjas, becoming anime-like characters with their own individual superpowers. The animation style takes on an overall Japanese look and switches to a cinemascope aspect ratio whenever this happens. \n\nButters sees them playing and wants to join but the boys refuse to let him. He goes home and becomes his supervillain alter ego, Professor Chaos, and sets off to get his revenge on the four ninjas. Not realizing who he actually is, the boys agree to engage in battle with their new enemy. Professor Chaos gains the upper hand by neutralizing Kyle and Stan and Cartman proves no help as he prefers to use his ninja power to embarrass Kyle. Kenny comes to their defense and throws one of his shuriken.\n\nThe shuriken hits Butters in his eye and becomes lodged in it, which immediately brings an end to the battle and brings the boys back to their senses. Suddenly they all realize that Butters needs medical attention, but taking him to the local hospital would result in their parents finding out about their purchases. They try to pull the shuriken out of Butters' eye themselves but when that only makes things worse, Stan and Cartman decide that the only way they can take Butters to a doctor is if they go to the local veterinarian and so, they dress Butters up like a dog. \nOn the way, the boys encounter Craig again and have to hide Butters in an abandoned oven so nobody sees him. Much to their chagrin, Craig has copied them and obtained weapons from the same vendor, enlisting Jimmy, Clyde, and Token as his fellow ninjas. The two ninja groups fight, but in the chaos Butters escapes. The four boys force Craig's group to help them search for Butters, threatening to tell on them if they do not.\n\nA weakened Butters makes his way to the hospital but his disguise fools the attending doctor, who sends Butters to the local animal shelter. There, the veterinarian determines that the only thing to do is to put Butters to sleep. Just before he does, Butters escapes again and heads for the fair. So he decides to put another dog to sleep.\n\nThe boys decide to dispose of the evidence and return to the fair to have the vendor refund their money, which he refuses to do. Craig and the others inform them that they have seen Butters wandering around on the other side of the fair towards an auction that all their parents are attending. Cartman decides to use his ninja power of invisibility to walk across the auction stage to get to Butters undetected and takes off his clothes. However, since nobody else knows what the boys have been up to, Cartman inadvertently ends up streaking across the stage and is unable to reach Butters, who collapses on the stage while everyone looks on stunned.\n\nThe final scene shows the townsfolk protesting at an emergency meeting about the outrage at the auction. The boys are under the impression that the outrage in question is Butters' wound (which has been medically treated by this time), but it soon transpires that the real issue is Cartman's public nudity. Cartman explains that it was a \"wardrobe malfunction\", and the episode ends with the other three boys addressing the issue that adults are more offended by sex than by violence, allowing them to keep their weapons. The episode ends with a freeze-frame of the boys in Anime style posing and embarking on another adventure as they have more work to do.\n\nIn spite of the episode's popularity among fans, series co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone openly admitted in the season eight DVD audio commentary that they did not think it was a very good episode. This episode features \"Let's Fighting Love\", a theme song that mixes Japanese and English lyrics in a style parody of \"anime\" theme songs including that of \"Dragon Ball Z\". The song is performed by series creator Trey Parker.\n\n\"Good Times with Weapons\", along with the thirteen other episodes from \"South Park\"s eighth season, was released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on August 29, 2006. The set includes brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode. In 2006, the episode was also included in \"South Park – The Hits: Volume 1\", a DVD compilation which features Parker and Stone's ten favorite episodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "28745995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28745995", "title": "Hawaiianize", "text": "Hawaiianize\n\nThe transitive verb to Hawaiianize means to take a physical product, word, or concept hitherto unrelated to Hawaiian culture, and confer a Hawaiian form, quality, and character upon it through various means. The word is an increasingly popular neologism, in the manner of Anglicise, Africanise, and Americanize, and is most commonly used in matters of etymology and nomenclature. Consequently, it is used both to mean the transliteration of English into Hawaiian and also the general 'Hawaiianization' of anything. Hawaiianize also means to incorporate the Hawaiian culture, spirit and character to anything and to live the Aloha Spirit through life, love and laughter. It is also used to indicate the adding of Hawaiian instrumentation and/or language to a non-Hawaiian song; the adding of Hawaiian themes such as palm trees, tropical flowers, rainbows, dolphins, whales, sea turtles, volcanic lava flows, etc. to textiles and artifacts: the adding of papaya, mango and/or guava flavors to drinks and edibles; the adding of Hawaiian tropical flower fragrances such as ginger, plumeria, gardenia and tuberose to lotions and beauty products; the use of Hawaiian ideas in gardening. The word has started entering forms of popular culture and is frequently used as an adjective in its gerundive form, \"Hawaiianized\".\n"}
{"id": "18998480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18998480", "title": "History of legal education in Serbia", "text": "History of legal education in Serbia\n\nThe roots of law, legal thought and education in Serbia go back to the 13th century. This is owed to Rastko Nemanjić, who was declared a saint under the name St. Sava. Rastko, the brother of the first Serbian king Stefan Nemanjić, was the founder of not only the ecclesiastical independence (autocephaly of the Serbian church in 1219), but he also has instituted the Serbian education, literature, health, the legal system and science.\n\nAt the same time when John of England released the famous Magna Carta Libertatum in Latin, in Serbia St. Sava has prepared and published in his native language a collection of both church and secular regulations under the name Nomocanon (). In conjunction with the monumental lawmaking initiative of Stefan Uroš IV Dušan of Serbia in 1349, the Dušan's Code, which was written in Serbian as well, these acts constitute the foundation of the Serbian legal culture. Even during the long-lasting rule of the Turks, which began in the mid-15th century, Serbian law has survived through the practice of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which still considers the Nomocanon its official codex. However, only liberation from the Turkish authorities, starting in the 19th century, enabled the full bloom of Serbian legal science and education.\n\nAt some stage in the struggle for national liberation from the Turks during the First Serbian Uprising that started in 1804, the Belgrade Higher School was founded in 1808. The classes lasted three years and in addition to general subjects the curriculum included comparative and state (constitutional) law, international law, criminal law and judicial procedure. Therefore, there are many historians who believe that it is justified to perceive that the foundation of modern education in Serbia was the Higher School and the year 1808. This year is taken as the date when the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law was established.\n\nIn 1841, Belgrade has become the capital city of Serbia and in the same year the Lyceum moved from Kragujevac to Belgrade. At that time, the Belgrade Lyceum had two departments - Law and Philosophy. Before enrolling the Legal Department (which initially lasted one year, from 1843 two years, and since 1849 three years), it was compulsory to graduate at the Philosophy Department, where the studies lasted two years, so the legal studies lasted a total of five years. The classes were in the native Serbian language, and the first professors were learned Serbs from Vojvodina. Among them was the well-known Serbian writer, comediographer and lawyer, Jovan Sterija Popović, who held two courses: Natural Law (Encyclopedia of Law, or today's Introduction to Law) and a course on the organization of courts and civil procedure. Since 1853, the legal education became independent from the studies of philosophy.\n\nSubsequently, in 1863 the University of Belgrade rudiment consisted of the Philosophy, Law and Technical departments. From the Countess Ljubica's Residence, a beautiful small building in the center of Belgrade, the Higher School moved to one of the most significant buildings in Belgrade, the Captain Miša’s Mansion, bequeathed to the nation by Captain Miša Anastasijević, which is today home to the Rectorate (seat) of the University of Belgrade. Since then, legal education in Serbia lasted four years, within the framework of which 21 subjects were compulsory.\n\nThe Higher School formally became the University of Belgrade through the Law on the University from February 27, 1905. In addition to the Philosophy, Law and Technical schools, this Law has set forth the existence of Orthodox Theology and Medical schools. Given the limited space in the building of Captain Miša Anastasijević, the library of the Faculty of Law has moved to a separate building in the center of the city, and a number of its teachers received their offices at the National Library at the Kosančićev Venac. Today, the law school building, whose construction began in 1937, was completed in fall 1940, just before the Second World War. The Library of the Faculty of Law has been moved there as well. At that time, it had a collection of over 36,000 books and monographs, representing the foremost law library in the Balkans. \n\nThe legal studies lasted four years and consisted of the 19 compulsory subjects, and for students of the Islamic confession Sharia Law was introduced as an additional subject. Regulations on law schools from 1938 have set forth a unique curriculum for all three law schools, which then existed in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia (Belgrade, Zagreb, Ljubljana). Twenty compulsory subjects were set forth, with the proviso that only at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law, under the same conditions as before, Sharia Law was taught as an additional subject.\n\nSince the formation of the University until the First World War several hundred students were enrolled. The first woman at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law graduated in 1914. During the period between the two world wars, the law school experienced its full bloom, it grew out into a modern European institution for legal education and has acquired a high international reputation. Shortly before the Second World War, more than 4,000 students were enrolled (of which there were almost 1,000 female students).\n\nAt that time, Slobodan Jovanović was one of the greatest authorities on jurisprudence and especially constitutional law. Liberal in his social and political views, he was for nearly half a century a leader of the Serbian intelligentsia.\n\nThe newly constructed law school building was damaged during the April bombing of Belgrade in 1941 and all lectures and activities were suspended. The German occupation forces moved into the building. Although there were later attempts of the occupation authorities to do the restoration work, this has not occurred due to the protests and boycott of the professors and aides. In November 1941, seven teachers were imprisoned in a camp, because of their liberal attitudes and antifascist views, and two foremost Serbian authorities in legal education, Djordje Tasić and Mihajlo Ilic, were executed in 1944.\n\nThe building was renewed shortly after the Second World War, but the dramatic changes engendered by the Communist rule and the decades of legal, social and political experiments have left various consequences. Immediately after the war, and later due to the ideological and political dissent, the Faculty of Law lost a number of its professors and assistants. Notably, after the well-known discourse on the constitutional amendments of 1971, the state proceeded with the criminal prosecution and imprisonment of renowned Professor Mihailo Djurić. It was a similar case with many other academics.\n\nDespite the flagrant events from the following decades, the law school rapidly developed. An entire constellation of scholars of the new generation emerged, who continued the work of their distinguished predecessors. Alexander Soloviev, Radomir Lukić and Mihailo Djurić are some of the foremost Serbian legal academics of the 20th century. Their students until today are at the forefront of the teams of experts drafting new laws, their scholarly papers are being published abroad, they are the arbitrators at international arbitration courts, members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, members and officials of international scholarly institutions and professional organizations, honorary doctors at foreign universities, visiting professors at the world’s leading universities, and rectors of the University of Belgrade. \n\nDuring the 20th century, all the law schools that later emerged in Serbia (Subotica, Novi Sad, Priština, Niš, Kragujevac), Montenegro (Podgorica), and in other parts of the former Yugoslavia (Sarajevo, Skoplje) were formed from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law as a core. A large number of law professors from all the countries of the former Yugoslavia had obtained their academic titles in Belgrade.\n\n"}
{"id": "9097222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9097222", "title": "Hungary Water", "text": "Hungary Water\n\nHungary water (sometimes called \"the Queen of Hungary's Water\", \"Eau de la Reine de Hongary\", or \"spirits of rosemary\") was one of the first alcohol-based perfumes in Europe, primarily made with rosemary. The oldest surviving recipes call for distilling fresh rosemary and thyme with brandy, while later formulations contain wine, lavender, mint, sage, marjoram, costus, orange blossom and lemon.\n\nThe exact date of the invention of Hungary water is lost to history, though some sources say it dates to 1370 or the late 14th century. It is equally unclear who in particular created it. According to legend, it was formulated at the command of the Queen Elizabeth of Hungary, sometimes identified as Queen Isabella of Hungary or in one document \"Saint Elisabeth, Queen of Hungary\". Some sources say that a hermit or monk-recluse first gave it to the Queen of Hungary, though most likely it was made by a court alchemist or a monk-alchemist. These legends mostly date to the early to mid-17th century, so the details may have become confused in the intervening centuries.\n\nThe queen in question is frequently assumed to be Elisabeth of Poland (1305–1380), although the particulars of her life do not match those in the more common legends. It is even more unlikely that it could be Saint Elisabeth of Hungary (1207–1231), who is additionally too early and not a queen. The only plausible Queen Isabella (late 13th century) likewise seems to be too early to be a strong candidate, as the invention of this water is most probably related to the Black Death epidemic that ravaged Europe between 1346 and 1350.\n\nAccording to legends, Hungary water first appeared outside of Hungary in 1370 when Charles V of France, who was famous for his love of fragrances, received some. Its use was popular across Europe for many centuries, and until \"Eau de Cologne\" appeared in the 18th century, it was the most popular fragrance and remedy applied. \n\nBy the 18th century, French Hungary water from Montpellier was being touted over other variations of Hungary water, because of the quality of the rosemary used in the distillation. Advertisements in newspapers even warned against counterfeit versions of French Hungary water, explaining to potential buyers how to detect the difference in quality.\n\nSimilar to other herb and flower-based products, Hungary water was also a valuable remedy, with recipes advising the user to wash with it or drink it in order to receive the most benefit. It was even thought to help people maintain youthful appearance and beauty.\n\n"}
{"id": "163901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163901", "title": "Information society", "text": "Information society\n\nAn information society is a society where the creation, distribution, use, integration and manipulation of information is a significant economic, political, and cultural activity. Its main drivers are digital information and communication technologies, which have resulted in an information explosion and are profoundly changing all aspects of social organization, including the economy, education, health, warfare, government and democracy. The people who have the means to partake in this form of society are sometimes called digital citizens, defined by K. Mossberger as “Those who use the Internet regularly and effectively”. This is one of many dozen labels that have been identified to suggest that humans are entering a new phase of society.\n\nThe markers of this rapid change may be technological, economic, occupational, spatial, cultural, or some combination of all of these.\nInformation society is seen as the successor to industrial society. Closely related concepts are the post-industrial society (Daniel Bell), post-fordism, post-modern society, knowledge society, telematic society, Information Revolution, liquid modernity, and network society (Manuel Castells).\n\nThere is currently no universally accepted concept of what exactly can be termed information society and what shall rather not so be termed. Most theoreticians agree that a transformation can be seen that started somewhere between the 1970s and today and is changing the way societies work fundamentally. Information technology goes beyond the internet, and there are discussions about how big the influence of specific media or specific modes of production really is. Frank Webster notes five major types of information that can be used to define information society: technological, economic, occupational, spatial and cultural. According to Webster, the character of information has transformed the way that we live today. How we conduct ourselves centers around theoretical knowledge and information.\n\nKasiwulaya and Gomo (Makerere University) allude that information societies are those that have intensified their use of IT for economic, social, cultural and political transformation. In 2005, governments reaffirmed their dedication to the foundations of the Information\nSociety in the Tunis Commitment and outlined the basis for implementation and follow-up in the Tunis Agenda for the Information Society. In particular, the Tunis Agenda addresses the issues of financing of ICTs for development and Internet governance that could not be resolved in the first phase.\n\nSome people, such as Antonio Negri, characterize the information society as one in which people do immaterial labour. By this, they appear to refer to the production of knowledge or cultural artifacts. One problem with this model is that it ignores the material and essentially industrial basis of the society. However it does point to a problem for workers, namely how many creative people does this society need to function? For example, it may be that you only need a few star performers, rather than a plethora of non-celebrities, as the work of those performers can be easily distributed, forcing all secondary players to the bottom of the market. It \"is\" now common for publishers to promote only their best selling authors and to try to avoid the rest—even if they still sell steadily. Films are becoming more and more judged, in terms of distribution, by their first weekend's performance, in many cases cutting out opportunity for word-of-mouth development.\n\nMichael Buckland characterizes information in society in his book \"Information and Society.\" Buckland expresses the idea that information can be interpreted differently from person to person based on that individual's experiences.\n\nConsidering that metaphors and technologies of information move forward in a reciprocal relationship, we can describe some societies (especially the Japanese society) as an information society because we think of it as such.\nThe word information may be interpreted in many different ways. According to Buckland in \"Information and Society\", most of the meanings fall into three categories of human knowledge: information as knowledge, information as a process, and information as a thing.\n\nThe growth of technologically mediated information has been quantified in different ways, including society's technological capacity to store information, to communicate information, and to compute information. It is estimated that, the world's technological capacity to store information grew from 2.6 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 1986, which is the informational equivalent to less than one 730-MB CD-ROM per person in 1986 (539 MB per person), to 295 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2007. This is the informational equivalent of 60 CD-ROM per person in 2007 and represents a sustained annual growth rate of some 25%. The world’s combined technological capacity to receive information through one-way broadcast networks was the informational equivalent of 174 newspapers per person per day in 2007.\n\nThe world's combined effective capacity to exchange information through two-way telecommunication networks was 281 petabytes of (optimally compressed) information in 1986, 471 petabytes in 1993, 2.2 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2000, and 65 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2007, which is the informational equivalent of 6 newspapers per person per day in 2007. The world's technological capacity to compute information with humanly guided general-purpose computers grew from 3.0 × 10^8 MIPS in 1986, to 6.4 x 10^12 MIPS in 2007, experiencing the fastest growth rate of over 60% per year during the last two decades.\n\nJames R. Beniger describes the necessity of information in modern society in the following way: “The need for sharply increased control that resulted from the industrialization of material processes through application of inanimate sources of energy probably accounts for the rapid development of automatic feedback technology in the early industrial period (1740-1830)” (p. 174)\n“Even with enhanced feedback control, industry could not have developed without the enhanced means to process matter and energy, not only as inputs of the raw materials of production but also as outputs distributed to final consumption.”(p. 175)\n\nOne of the first people to develop the concept of the information society was the economist Fritz Machlup. In 1933, Fritz Machlup began studying the effect of patents on research. His work culminated in the study \"The production and distribution of knowledge in the United States\" in 1962. This book was widely regarded and was eventually translated into Russian and Japanese. The Japanese have also studied the information society (or \"jōhōka shakai\", ).\n\nThe issue of technologies and their role in contemporary society have been discussed in the scientific literature using a range of labels and concepts. This section introduces some of them. Ideas of a knowledge or information economy, post-industrial society, postmodern society, network society, the information revolution, informational capitalism, network capitalism, and the like, have been debated over the last several decades.\n\nFritz Machlup (1962) introduced the concept of the knowledge industry. He began studying the effects of patents on research before distinguishing five sectors of the knowledge sector: education, research and development, mass media, information technologies, information services. Based on this categorization he calculated that in 1959 29% per cent of the GNP in the USA had been produced in knowledge industries.\n\nPeter Drucker has argued that there is a transition from an economy based on material goods to one based on knowledge. Marc Porat distinguishes a primary (information goods and services that are directly used in the production, distribution or processing of information) and a secondary sector (information services produced for internal consumption by government and non-information firms) of the information economy.\n\nPorat uses the total value added by the primary and secondary information sector to the GNP as an indicator for the information economy. The OECD has employed Porat's definition for calculating the share of the information economy in the total economy (e.g. OECD 1981, 1986). Based on such indicators, the information society has been defined as a society where more than half of the GNP is produced and more than half of the employees are active in the information economy.\n\nFor Daniel Bell the number of employees producing services and information is an indicator for the informational character of a society. \"A post-industrial society is based on services. (…) What counts is not raw muscle power, or energy, but information. (…) A post industrial society is one in which the majority of those employed are not involved in the production of tangible goods\".\n\nAlain Touraine already spoke in 1971 of the post-industrial society. \"The passage to postindustrial society takes place when investment results in the production of symbolic goods that modify values, needs, representations, far more than in the production of material goods or even of 'services'. Industrial society had transformed the means of production: post-industrial society changes the ends of production, that is, culture. (…) The decisive point here is that in postindustrial society all of the economic system is the object of intervention of society upon itself. That is why we can call it the programmed society, because this phrase captures its capacity to create models of management, production, organization, distribution, and consumption, so that such a society appears, at all its functional levels, as the product of an action exercised by the society itself, and not as the outcome of natural laws or cultural specificities\" (Touraine 1988: 104). In the programmed society also the area of cultural reproduction including aspects such as information, consumption, health, research, education would be industrialized. That modern society is increasing its capacity to act upon itself means for Touraine that society is reinvesting ever larger parts of production and so produces and transforms itself. This makes Touraine's concept substantially different from that of Daniel Bell who focused on the capacity to process and generate information for efficient society functioning.\n\nJean-François Lyotard has argued that \"knowledge has become the force of production over the last few decades\". Knowledge would be transformed into a commodity. Lyotard says that postindustrial society makes knowledge accessible to the layman because knowledge and information technologies would diffuse into society and break up Grand Narratives of centralized structures and groups. Lyotard denotes these changing circumstances as postmodern condition or postmodern society.\n\nSimilarly to Bell, Peter Otto and Philipp Sonntag (1985) say that an information society is a society where the majority of employees work in information jobs, i.e. they have to deal more with information, signals, symbols, and images than with energy and matter. Radovan Richta (1977) argues that society has been transformed into a scientific civilization based on services, education, and creative activities. This transformation would be the result of a scientific-technological transformation based on technological progress and the increasing importance of computer technology. Science and technology would become immediate forces of production (Aristovnik 2014: 55).\n\nNico Stehr (1994, 2002a, b) says that in the knowledge society a majority of jobs involves working with knowledge. \"Contemporary society may be described as a knowledge society based on the extensive penetration of all its spheres of life and institutions by scientific and technological knowledge\" (Stehr 2002b: 18). For Stehr, knowledge is a capacity for social action. Science would become an immediate productive force, knowledge would no longer be primarily embodied in machines, but already appropriated nature that represents knowledge would be rearranged according to certain designs and programs (Ibid.: 41-46). For Stehr, the economy of a knowledge society is largely driven not by material inputs, but by symbolic or knowledge-based inputs (Ibid.: 67), there would be a large number of professions that involve working with knowledge, and a declining number of jobs that demand low cognitive skills as well as in manufacturing (Stehr 2002a).\n\nAlso Alvin Toffler argues that knowledge is the central resource in the economy of the information society: \"In a Third Wave economy, the central resource – a single word broadly encompassing data, information, images, symbols, culture, ideology, and values – is actionable knowledge\" (Dyson/Gilder/Keyworth/Toffler 1994).\n\nAt the end of the twentieth century, the concept of the network society gained importance in information society theory. For Manuel Castells, network logic is besides information, pervasiveness, flexibility, and convergence a central feature of the information technology paradigm (2000a: 69ff). \"One of the key features of informational society is the networking logic of its basic structure, which explains the use of the concept of 'network society'\" (Castells 2000: 21). \"As an historical trend, dominant functions and processes in the Information Age are increasingly organized around networks. Networks constitute the new social morphology of our societies, and the diffusion of networking logic substantially modifies the operation and outcomes in processes of production, experience, power, and culture\" (Castells 2000: 500). For Castells the network society is the result of informationalism, a new technological paradigm.\n\nJan Van Dijk (2006) defines the network society as a \"social formation with an infrastructure of social and media networks enabling its prime mode of organization at all levels (individual, group/organizational and societal). Increasingly, these networks link all units or parts of this formation (individuals, groups and organizations)\" (Van Dijk 2006: 20). For Van Dijk networks have become the nervous system of society, whereas Castells links the concept of the network society to capitalist transformation, Van Dijk sees it as the logical result of the increasing widening and thickening of networks in nature and society. Darin Barney uses the term for characterizing societies that exhibit two fundamental characteristics: \"The first is the presence in those societies of sophisticated – almost exclusively digital – technologies of networked communication and information management/distribution, technologies which form the basic infrastructure mediating an increasing array of social, political and economic practices. (…) The second, arguably more intriguing, characteristic of network societies is the reproduction and institutionalization throughout (and between) those societies of networks as the basic form of human organization and relationship across a wide range of social, political and economic configurations and associations\".\n\nThe major critique of concepts such as information society, knowledge society, network society, postmodern society, postindustrial society, etc. that has mainly been voiced by critical scholars is that they create the impression that we have entered a completely new type of society. \"If there is just more information then it is hard to understand why anyone should suggest that we have before us something radically new\" (Webster 2002a: 259). Critics such as Frank Webster argue that these approaches stress discontinuity, as if contemporary society had nothing in common with society as it was 100 or 150 years ago. Such assumptions would have ideological character because they would fit with the view that we can do nothing about change and have to adopt to existing political realities (kasiwulaya 2002b: 267).\n\nThese critics argue that contemporary society first of all is still a capitalist society oriented towards accumulating economic, political, and cultural capital. They acknowledge that information society theories stress some important new qualities of society (notably globalization and informatization), but charge that they fail to show that these are attributes of overall capitalist structures. Critics such as Webster insist on the continuities that characterise change. In this way Webster distinguishes between different epochs of capitalism: laissez-faire capitalism of the 19th century, corporate capitalism in the 20th century, and informational capitalism for the 21st century (kasiwulaya 2006).\n\nFor describing contemporary society based on a dialectic of the old and the new, continuity and discontinuity, other critical scholars have suggested several terms like:\n\nOther scholars prefer to speak of information capitalism (Morris-Suzuki 1997) or informational capitalism (Manuel Castells 2000, Christian Fuchs 2005, Schmiede 2006a, b). Manuel Castells sees informationalism as a new technological paradigm (he speaks of a mode of development) characterized by \"information generation, processing, and transmission\" that have become \"the fundamental sources of productivity and power\" (Castells 2000: 21). The \"most decisive historical factor accelerating, channelling and shaping the information technology paradigm, and inducing its associated social forms, was/is the process of capitalist restructuring undertaken since the 1980s, so that the new techno-economic system can be adequately characterized as informational capitalism\" (Castells 2000: 18). Castells has added to theories of the information society the idea that in contemporary society dominant functions and processes are increasingly organized around networks that constitute the new social morphology of society (Castells 2000: 500). Nicholas Garnham is critical of Castells and argues that the latter’s account is technologically determinist because Castells points out that his approach is based on a dialectic of technology and society in which technology embodies society and society uses technology (Castells 2000: 5sqq). But Castells also makes clear that the rise of a new \"mode of development\" is shaped by capitalist production, i.e. by society, which implies that technology isn't the only driving force of society.\n\nAntonio Negri and Michael Hardt argue that contemporary society is an Empire that is characterized by a singular global logic of capitalist domination that is based on immaterial labour. With the concept of immaterial labour Negri and Hardt introduce ideas of information society discourse into their Marxist account of contemporary capitalism. Immaterial labour would be labour \"that creates immaterial products, such as knowledge, information, communication, a relationship, or an emotional response\" (Hardt/Negri 2005: 108; cf. also 2000: 280-303), or services, cultural products, knowledge (Hardt/Negri 2000: 290). There would be two forms: intellectual labour that produces ideas, symbols, codes, texts, linguistic figures, images, etc.; and affective labour that produces and manipulates affects such as a feeling of ease, well-being, satisfaction, excitement, passion, joy, sadness, etc. (Ibid.).\n\nOverall, neo-Marxist accounts of the information society have in common that they stress that knowledge, information technologies, and computer networks have played a role in the restructuration and globalization of capitalism and the emergence of a flexible regime of accumulation (David Harvey 1989). They warn that new technologies are embedded into societal antagonisms that cause structural unemployment, rising poverty, social exclusion, the deregulation of the welfare state and of labour rights, the lowering of wages, welfare, etc.\n\nConcepts such as knowledge society, information society, network society, informational capitalism, postindustrial society, transnational network capitalism, postmodern society, etc. show that there is a vivid discussion in contemporary sociology on the character of contemporary society and the role that technologies, information, communication, and co-operation play in it. Information society theory discusses the role of information and information technology in society, the question which key concepts shall be used for characterizing contemporary society, and how to define such concepts. It has become a specific branch of contemporary sociology.\n\nInformation society is the means of getting information from one place to another. As technology has advanced so too has the way people have adapted in sharing this information with each other.\n\n\"Second nature\" refers a group of experiences that get made over by culture. They then get remade into something else that can then take on a new meaning. As a society we transform this process so it becomes something natural to us, i.e. second nature. So, by following a particular pattern created by culture we are able to recognise how we use and move information in different ways. From sharing information via different time zones (such as talking online) to information ending up in a different location (sending a letter overseas) this has all become a habitual process that we as a society take for granted.\n\nHowever, through the process of sharing information vectors have enabled us to spread information even further. Through the use of these vectors information is able to move and then separate from the initial things that enabled them to move. From here, something called \"third nature\" has developed. An extension of second nature, third nature is in control of second nature. It expands on what second nature is limited by. It has the ability to mould information in new and different ways. So, third nature is able to ‘speed up, proliferate, divide, mutate, and beam in on us from else where. It aims to create a balance between the boundaries of space and time (see second nature). This can be seen through the telegraph, it was the first successful technology that could send and receive information faster than a human being could move an object. As a result different vectors of people have the ability to not only shape culture but create new possibilities that will ultimately shape society.\n\nTherefore, through the use of second nature and third nature society is able to use and explore new vectors of possibility where information can be moulded to create new forms of interaction.\n\nIn sociology, informational society refers to a post-modern type of society. Theoreticians like Ulrich Beck, Anthony Giddens and Manuel Castells argue that since the 1970s a transformation from industrial society to informational society has happened on a global scale.\n\nAs steam power was the technology standing behind industrial society, so information technology is seen as the catalyst for the changes in work organisation, societal structure and politics occurring in the late 20th century.\n\nIn the book \"Future Shock\", Alvin Toffler used the phrase super-industrial society to describe this type of society. Other writers and thinkers have used terms like \"post-industrial society\" and \"post-modern industrial society\" with a similar meaning.\n\nA number of terms in current use emphasize related but different aspects of the emerging global economic order. The Information Society intends to be the most encompassing in that an economy is a subset of a society. The Information Age is somewhat limiting, in that it refers to a 30-year period between the widespread use of computers and the knowledge economy, rather than an emerging economic order. The knowledge era is about the nature of the content, not the socioeconomic processes by which it will be traded. The computer revolution, and knowledge revolution refer to specific revolutionary transitions, rather than the end state towards which we are evolving. The Information Revolution relates with the well known terms agricultural revolution and industrial revolution.\n\nToday, It is important to selectively select the information. Due to information revolution, the amount of information is puzzling. Among these, we need to develop techniques that refine information. This is called \"data mining.\" It is an engineering term, but it is used in sociology. In other words, if the amount of information was competitive in the past, the quality of information is important today.\n\nOne of the central paradoxes of the information society is that it makes information easily reproducible, leading to a variety of freedom/control problems relating to intellectual property. Essentially, business and capital, whose place becomes that of producing and selling information and knowledge, seems to require control over this new resource so that it can effectively be managed and sold as the basis of the information economy. However, such control can prove to be both technically and socially problematic. Technically because copy protection is often easily circumvented and socially \"rejected\" because the users and citizens of the information society can prove to be unwilling to accept such absolute commodification of the facts and information that compose their environment.\n\nResponses to this concern range from the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the United States (and similar legislation elsewhere) which make copy protection (see DRM) circumvention illegal, to the free software, open source and copyleft movements, which seek to encourage and disseminate the \"freedom\" of various information products (traditionally both as in \"gratis\" or free of cost, and liberty, as in freedom to use, explore and share).\n\nCaveat: Information society is often used by politicians meaning something like \"we all do internet now\"; the sociological term information society (or informational society) has some deeper implications about change of societal structure. Because we lack political control of intellectual property, we are lacking in a concrete map of issues, an analysis of costs and benefits, and functioning political groups that are unified by common interests representing different opinions of this diverse situation that are prominent in the information society.\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "44004878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44004878", "title": "Inglehart–Welzel cultural map of the world", "text": "Inglehart–Welzel cultural map of the world\n\nThe Inglehart–Welzel cultural map of the world is a map, or more precisely, a scatter plot created by political scientists Ronald Inglehart and Christian Welzel based on the World Values Survey. It depicts closely linked cultural values that vary between societies in two predominant dimensions: traditional versus secular-rational values on the vertical y-axis and survival versus self-expression values on the horizontal x-axis. Moving upward on this map reflects the shift from traditional values to secular-rational ones and moving rightward reflects the shift from survival values to self-expression values.\n\nAccording to the authors: \"These two dimensions explain more than 70 percent of the cross-national variance in a factor analysis of ten indicators—and each of these dimensions is strongly correlated with scores of other important orientations.\"\n\nThe authors stress that socio-economic status is not the sole factor determining a country's location, as their religious and cultural historical heritage is also an important factor.\n\nAnalysis of the World Values Survey data by Inglehart and Welzel asserts that there are two major dimensions of cross-cultural variation in the world: \n\nThe map is not a geographical map but rather a chart in which countries are positioned based on their scores for the two values mapped on the x-axis (survival values versus self-expression values) and the y-axis (traditional values versus secular-rational values). The map shows where societies are located in these two dimensions. Clusters of countries reflect their shared values and not geographical closeness.\n\nTraditional values emphasize the importance of religion, parent-child ties, deference to authority, absolute standards and traditional family values. People who embrace these values also reject divorce, abortion, euthanasia and suicide. Societies that embrace these values have high levels of national pride and a nationalistic outlook.\n\nSecular-rational values have the opposite preferences to the traditional values. Societies that embrace these values place less emphasis on religion, traditional family values and authority. Divorce, abortion, euthanasia and suicide are seen as relatively acceptable.\n\nThe shift from traditional to secular-rational values has been described by Engelbrekt and Nygren as \"essentially the replacement of religion and superstition with science and bureaucracy\".\n\nSurvival values place emphasis on economic and physical security. They are linked with a relatively ethnocentric outlook and low levels of trust and tolerance.\n\nSelf-expression values give high priority to subjective well-being, self-expression and quality of life. Some values more common in societies that embrace these values include environmental protection, growing tolerance of foreigners, gays and lesbians and gender equality, rising demands for participation in decision-making in economic and political life (autonomy and freedom from central authority), interpersonal trust, political moderation, and a shift in child-rearing values from emphasis on hard work toward imagination and tolerance.\n\nThe shift from survival to self-expression also represents the transition from industrial society to post-industrial society, as well as embracing democratic values.\n\nCountries can be divided into nine clusters: the English-speaking, Latin America, Catholic Europe, Protestant Europe, African-Islamic, Baltic, South Asian, Orthodox and Confucian clusters. In previous studies, the African-Islamic cluster was split into two (the African cluster and the Islamic cluster) and the Baltic states did not have their own cluster.\n\nAnother proposed way to cluster the societies is by wealth, with the poor societies at the bottom of both axes, and rich at the top.\n\nOut of Western world countries, the United States is among the most conservative (as one of the most downwards-located countries), together with highly conservative Catholic countries such as Ireland and Poland. Simoni concludes that \"On the traditional/secular dimension, the United States ranks far below other rich societies, with levels of religiosity and national pride comparable with those found in some developing societies\" (roughly, between Iran and Iraq).\n\nAsian societies are distributed in the traditional/secular dimension in two clusters, with more secular Confucian societies at the top, and more traditional South Asian ones at the center of the map.\n\nRussia is among the most survival-value oriented countries, and at the other end, Sweden ranks highest on the self-expression chart.\n\nIt has also been found that basic cultural values overwhelmingly apply on national lines, with cross-border intermixtures being relatively rare. This is true even between countries with shared cultural histories. Additionally, even cultural clusters of countries do not intermix much across borders. This suggests nations are culturally meaningful units.\n\n"}
{"id": "25430653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25430653", "title": "Joke (sketch)", "text": "Joke (sketch)\n\n\"Joke\" is a comedy sketch written and performed by English comedians Rowan Atkinson and Richard Curtis. It was performed live during Atkinson's 1980 tour of the United Kingdom. A live recording was made at the Grand Opera House in Belfast, Northern Ireland, on 19 or 20 September 1980 and released as the last track on Atkinson's live comedy album, \"Live in Belfast\".\n\nAt the start of the sketch, Rowan Atkinson's character tells Richard Curtis' character he's \"got a joke\". He goes on to explain, \"It's one of those ones where I ask a question and you say 'I don't know, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot'.\" Rowan begins the joke by saying, \"I say, I say, I say, what is the secret of great comedy?\" Richard replies by literally saying, \"I don't know, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot.\" After laughing at his own wit, Richard tells the annoyed Rowan that he'll \"do it again.\" Rowan repeats the question and Richard replies, \"I don't know. What is the secret to great comedy?\" However, before Richard can finish his reply, Rowan interrupts, \"timing.\" The point of the joke is that Rowan deliberately got his timing wrong when saying that timing is the secret to great comedy; however, Richard does not understand the joke. Bewildered by Richard's stupidity, Rowan enquires, \"But didn't you see?\" \"Sorry, was it a visual joke?\" Richard replies, still confused. After trying the joke a third time, Richard still does not understand the irony of the joke. Annoyed by Richard, Rowan asks, \"Don't you think that's a clever joke?\" to which Richard replies, \"Clever... no. Joke... no.\" Disheartened by his joke falling flat with Richard, he claims \"it was very funny when Michael told it,\" then makes the excuse that his timing might be out to which Richard replies, \"It could be other factors like the complete absence of anything funny in the joke.\" Rowan proclaims, \"It's so difficult telling jokes,\" before suddenly exclaiming that he has another joke that is \"far more straightforward\" to which Richard replies, \"As long as it's funny, I don't mind.\"\n\nThe second joke begins with Rowan saying, \"Knock! Knock! Who's there? Death...\" but he is interrupted by Richard who complains that knock-knock jokes \"are meant to be two-handers\". Rowan argues that this joke \"doesn't work that way\". It becomes apparent that Rowan is attempting to tell the same joke told by Toby, the Devil, during a previous sketch. The joke is meant to go \"Knock, Knock. Who's there? Death. Death wh...\" at which point the person telling the joke pretends to die. If a second person was replying in the joke, they would not know to pretend to die when saying \"Death who?\". Richard protests and Rowan gives in and the pair attempt the knock-knock joke in the \"old way\". Richard, ignorant to the fact he is meant to say the punch line, replies \"Death who?\" and Rowan replies \"Ah, now, that's where it goes wrong.\" Rowan explains to Richard how he is meant to say the punch-line but after another attempt at the joke, Richard replies wrong. Rowan, getting increasingly more annoyed as the sketch goes on, says he has another joke and this time he will be \"third time lucky\".\n\nRowan explains that the third joke is \"a very old joke but a very good joke\". Rowan begins to tell the classic joke, which begins \"I say, I say, I say, my wife's gone to Jamaica\". The person replying is meant to say, \"Jamaica?\" which sounds like \"D'you make 'er?\" or \"Did you make her?\". The joke-teller then replies, \"No, of her own accord.\" However, when Rowan says, \"I say, I say, I say, my wife's gone to Jamaica,\" Richard replies, \"Of her own accord?\" which ruins the whole joke and causes Rowan to swear loudly and give up telling jokes to Richard.\n\n\nSide one\nSide two\n"}
{"id": "35107722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35107722", "title": "Kofei language", "text": "Kofei language\n\nKofei is a Papuan language of the Indonesian province of Papua, on the eastern shore of Cenderawasih Bay.\n\nKofei is lexically similar to the East Geelvink Bay languages and presumably belongs in that family, but is too poorly attested to be sure.\n"}
{"id": "52478650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52478650", "title": "Lampetho", "text": "Lampetho\n\nLampetho was an Amazon queen mentioned by French medieval poet Eustache Deschamps. She was a member of the female version of Deschamps' nine worthies, individuals who along with their male counterparts were historical, scriptural and legendary personages who embodied the ideals of chivalry, honor and privilege. \n\nIn 1591 German Lutheran theologian, pastor and historian Cyriacus Spangenberg added more detail about her and her fellow Amazons in his \"WeiberAdel\". This work, the last part of his 921-page folio on the mythical and historical origins of the German nobility entitled \"Der AdelsSpiegel\", is a celebration of female achievements. To that end, the work is filled with examples of women who serve as archetypes of virtues that should be imitated. Such an intuition might instill women with their own sense of virtue and thus, develop a proper sense of Lutheran piety.\n\nIn \"WeiberAdel\" several groups of Amazons are mentioned: the first of Lybian origin was described as both vicious and magnanimous and came to Europe from Africa under the direction of a Queen Myrina (after they had slaughtered all their men folk) via traversing Spain and crossing the ocean. They eventually emigrated to the lands of Sarmatia after intermarrying with the Scythian peoples who had warred with them initially, under the mistaken impression of them being men. Later, a second godly group of Amazons of Germanic stock is introduced from whom Lampetho descended.\n\nAccording to a story in the work that related the origins of this latter group of Amazons, the Germanic King Taurer (a descendant of the earlier King Alemann) was faced with a rising population, leading him to lead groups of people south into Hungary and down the Danube to a place near the Black Sea to resettle them. Among the group were single women and widows who were \"wild and ardent\" to the point that he could rely on them more than the men on the journey. As a reward for their valor, the women were given land sticking out into the water, from which they later staged war and conquered the lands of Pontus and Cappadocia. These Amazons were rendered monstrous by their rage, allowed no trespassers on their lands. Their descendants later went on to conquer all of Asia Minor.\n\nThey added to the legend of the better-known Greek legend of the Amazons (each capturing a man a month for reproduction, wearing men's clothes, leaving one breast bare and burning off one nipple to improve bow usage). In this version they also made drinking vessels from the skulls of the generals they captured to offer up sacrifices to the goddess Heeres or Diana, and showed them as a civilizing force of city builders willing to go to war to free the oppressed from injustice (noted in the work as unlike many men of the time who fought only for glory, defense or conquest). \n\nAmong the most prominent of the Amazon queens were Lampetho, who was in charge of internal order among the Amazons, and Marpesia, who was in charge of making war outside the borders. According to the work, around the year 1271 B.C (which in Spangenberg's chronology was some 2700 years after the creation of the world) Marpesia was reportedly attacked and defeated in a battle with famed Greek hero, and slayer of the Chimera, Bellerophon when they attempted to invade Lycia.\n"}
{"id": "33809795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33809795", "title": "Lee Ju-hwan", "text": "Lee Ju-hwan\n\nLee Ju-hwan(; April 10, 1909 - December 2, 1972) was an Ingan-munhwage of Korean traditional song, gagok, which is the 41st Important Intangible Cultural Properties of Korea. He is also a master of gasa, which is Korean traditional literature that is an intermediate form of poetry and prose and Lee Ju-hwan is designated as Ingan-munhwage of 30th Important Intangible Cultural Properties of Korea gasa either. He used Sonam(; as a pseudonym.\n\nLee Ju-hwan was born in 1909 May 24 lunar in Jongno-gu, Gwansudong 30, Seoul as a second son of Lee Gik-sang and Choi Gamn-yeo. His origin name was Bok-gil(;). In March 1928, he graduated Gyodong public elementary school and entered Part of the aakbuwon Training Center of the yiwangjik aakbu as the 3rd group in April. At that time yiwangjik aakbu gathered students every 5 years and the 3rd group has only 18 members. Sung kyung-lin, Lee Seok-jae, Bong Hae-ryong, Kim Bo-nam, Kim Young-un are all his alumni in yiwangjik aakbu 3rd members. when he was 3rd grade at yiwangjik aakbu, he made Jeonakhoe(;), which was a group for restoration of aak, traditional music during the Royal ceremony, with his friends. One month before graduating the yiwangjik aakbu, he married to Shin Chang-hee in February 1931. In March 1931, he graduated with honors and was designated as an aaksu (;) who is an aak player. In August 26, 1935, his wife Shin Chang-hee died. He started transcript Yeochang gagok after his wife's death and became the head of aak in November 1937. After the independence of Korea, he started to teach Korean dance as an instructor at the yiwangjik aakbu prctice room and he also tried to spread gagok and Sijo, Korean traditional poetry.\n\nIn 1928, organizing Jeonakhoe(;) for restoration of aak\nIn April 1931, becoming the head of aaksu (;)\nin 1933, making an advice to transfer the format of Jeongganbo\nIn 1935, completed transcription of namchang gagok\nIn August 1945, becoming the Director of Liberal Arts in former royal aakbu \nIn April 1, 1962 to September 1, 1972, Korean music instructor in Gukaksa school(currently is the gukak highschool)\nIn February 1971, establishing gagok and gasa school\n\nIn May 1958, winning the 7th Seoul culture award\nIn July 1971, winning the Academy of Arts award\n1958.5. 제7회 서울시 문화상 수상\n\n"}
{"id": "39250041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39250041", "title": "Lifestyle management", "text": "Lifestyle management\n\nLifestyle management is the outsourcing of personal tasks to commercial firms and individuals. Lifestyle managers or personal assistants act as an intermediary between suppliers of commercial services and consumers who are unwilling or unable to carry out a given task for themselves. These firms typically present their offer in terms of time-saving or access to expertise, with some firms also positioning their service as a luxury good.\n\nAlthough high-net-worth households have traditionally made use of service staff, these staff were typically employees who carried out tasks themselves. Lifestyle management as a standalone service first came to prominence in the late 1990s, with the rise of \"mass affluent\" and high net worth consumers, and the launch of services such as First Direct's Octopus and NatWest's Zender (both now defunct). Both were mass-market services created to drive traffic to banking websites. This \"B-2-B-C\" (business-to-business-to-consumer) model is still followed by lifestyle management firms, though many firms are also retained directly by their clients. HR Magazine reports that 15% of large employers in the US offer concierge services to their staff.\n\nA 2010 report by Oxford Brookes University estimated the global market for concierge services to be worth around $1bn, and suggested the most popular use for a concierge service is sourcing and booking restaurants (46%), followed by sourcing and booking a holiday (32%) and to helping to arrange business travel (27%).\n\nThe lifestyle management industry has a number of trade groups, many of which are closely affiliated to the hospitality industry, such as Les Clefs D'Or and The International Concierge and Lifestyle Management Association.\n"}
{"id": "57940561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57940561", "title": "List of early sound feature films (1926–1929)", "text": "List of early sound feature films (1926–1929)\n\nThis is a list of early pre-recorded sound and part talkie/ all talking feature films made in Hollywood and Europe during the transition to sound, between 1926-1929. During this time a variety of recording systems were used, including most notably sound on film formats such as Movietone and RCA Photophone, as well as sound on disc formats like Vitaphone for instance. This list includes film titles, release dates, production companies, audio type and its current archive status; denoting whether it exists, lost, incomplete, the film or audio elements exist only, as well as the number of discs extant for films recorded with Vitaphone soundtracks. \n\n"}
{"id": "47234792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47234792", "title": "List of video game museums", "text": "List of video game museums\n\nThis is a list of video game museums.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13908378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13908378", "title": "MENTOR", "text": "MENTOR\n\nMENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership is an advocate and resource for mentoring in the United States. It is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, with headquarters in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nMENTOR shares information, national standards, and best practices about mentoring. It works with organizations that directly match and oversee the mentor-mentee pairs, and helps coordinates the pairing of mentors with students. MENTOR co-founders Geoff Boisi and Ray Chambers each received the Lewis Hine Distinguished Service Award from the National Child Labor Committee (NCLC) for a lifetime of outstanding service to children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55465613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55465613", "title": "Margaret Eleanor Parker", "text": "Margaret Eleanor Parker\n\nMargaret Eleanor Parker (1827–1896) was a British social activist, social reformer, and travel writer who was involved in the temperance movement. She was a founding member of the British Women's Temperance Association (BWTA) in 1876, and served as its first president. Born in England, Parker resided in Scotland. She was a delegate to the 1876 International Organisation of Good Templars (IOGT) meeting which led to the formation of the BWTA. She was also instrumental in founding the World Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WWCTU). In 1881, she founded another type of women's association, one which focused on horticulture and supply, but it did not flourish. Parker described her travels in the Eastern United States in \"Six Happy Months amongst the Americans\" (1874).\n\nParker was born in England, of an old Tory or Conservative line.\n\nHer beneficent activities began in that department of church work where women have always been allowed an \"equal right\" with men, viz.: that of paying off church debts and raising funds for \"church extension.\" Nothing succeeds like success, and Parker was never associated with a losing enterprise.\n\n\"An orthodox of the orthodox,\" she worked for woman suffrage side by side with the party of John Stuart Mill. A wife, mother, and housekeeper of the New England school, she addressed the British Social Science Congress on the question of capital and labor. A modest, soft-voiced woman, she marshaled \" the bonnets of bonny Dundee,\" leading a procession of 60 of her townswomen to the headquarters of the magistrate, where they presented a no-license petition with 9,000 names of women — all this in the days of the Women's Christian Temperance Union \"Crusade,\" and under its inspiration. \n\nParker was a great admirer of the U.S. She and her husband were converted by John B. Gough after one of his lectures in Dundee, becoming total abstainers. In their zeal, they banished not only wine bottles, decanters, and glasses from their sideboard, but, forgetting that they should continue to drink \"Adam's ale,\" sent away their tumblers also. Concerning her appreciation of \"Yankee Notions,\" Parker once wrote: \"I have an American cook stove in my kitchen, an American sewing-machine in my sitting-room, and all the American books I can get in my library, and now I must have your wide-awake American paper, the Boston \"Woman's Journal\".\"\n\nActive as she had always been in reforms, the Crusade movement stirred Parker as nothing else had ever done. The presentation of her temperance petition to the authorities of Dundee struck the key-note for the United Kingdom, aroused Christian women to a sense of their responsibility, and led to the organization of temperance unions in Dundee and many other towns. The press having brought to her the name of Mother Stewart of Ohio, as prominently connected with the Crusade, Parker invited her to Scotland, and arranged a temperance trip for her which greatly enlisted the public interest, and from which resulted a meeting in April 1876, at Newcastle-on-Tyne. Delegates from all parts of the UK were present. Women who had never spoken on a platform before spoke with fluency and convincing earnestness, and proceeded, with all due observance of parliamentary forms, to organize the \"British Women's Christian Temperance Union.\" Parker was elected president of this new society, and was sent as a delegate to the Woman's International Temperance Convention which met in the Academy of Music, Philadelphia, in June 1876. There, Parker was unanimously elected President of the Woman's International Christian Temperance Union, the avowed object of which was \"to spread a temperance Gospel to the ends of the earth.\n\nTwice after the Crusade, Parker visited the U.S. to study the spirit and methods of the WCTU work. A book, entitled \"Six Happy Weeks among the Americans\", recorded her impression of the land she had so long desired to see. A reception was given her by Sorosis, and she was elected a member of that society and of the World's Congress of Representative Women. \n\nParker was not an orator, but her refined manners and gentle presence, combined with her strong sense and ready wit, made her one of the favorite speakers at the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893, called by the National Temperance Society, of which John Newton Stearns was Secretary. \n\nNowhere was her influence so great as in her own city. Twice she was offered a place on the School Board of Dundee, which she declined only that she might give her time to the work of the local Woman's Temperance Union, of which she was President since its organization, and to the duties of her more distinguished but hardly more onerous office as President of the international temperance union. \n\nShe married Edward Parker, proprietor of an extensive manufactory in Dundee. He was a member of a prominent Wesleyan Methodist manufacturing family of that city. They had six children — five sons, one daughter. Their residence, The Cliff, \"looked off upon the German Ocean and old St. Andrew's of classic memory.\" It was a model Scotch home. After Margaret Bright Lucas succeeded her as president of the BWTA, Parker and her family lived in England, working side by side with her successor. Like Lucas, Parker was a Quaker. She died in Dundee in November 1896.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "276909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276909", "title": "Menhir", "text": "Menhir\n\nA menhir (from Brittonic languages: \"maen\" or \"men\", \"stone\" and \"hir\" or \"hîr\", \"long\"), standing stone, orthostat, lith is a large man-made upright stone, typically dating from the European middle Bronze Age. They can be found solely as monoliths, or as part of a group of similar stones. Menhirs' size can vary considerably, but they are generally uneven and squared, often tapering towards the top. \n\nThey are widely distributed across Europe, Africa and Asia, but most numerous in Western Europe; particularly in Ireland, Great Britain, Brittany and France, where there are about 50,000 examples, while there are 1,200 menhirs in northwest France alone. Standing stones are usually difficult to date, but pottery, or pottery shards, found underneath some in Atlantic Europe connects them with the Beaker people. They were constructed during many different periods across pre-history as part of the larger megalithic cultures in Europe and near areas.\n\nSome menhirs have been erected next to buildings that often have an early or current religious significance. One example is the South Zeal Menhir in Devon, which formed the basis for a 12th-century monastery built by lay monks. The monastery later became the Oxenham Arms hotel, at South Zeal, and the standing stone remains in place in the ancient snug bar at the hotel.\n\nWhere menhirs appear in groups, often in a circular, oval, henge or horseshoe formation, they are sometimes called megalithic monuments. These are sites of ancient religious ceremonies, sometimes containing burial chambers. The exact function of menhirs has provoked more debate than practically any other issue in European pre-history. Over the centuries, they have variously been thought to have been used by Druids for human sacrifice, used as territorial markers, or elements of a complex ideological system, or functioned as early calendars. Until the nineteenth century, antiquarians did not have substantial knowledge of prehistory, and their only reference points were provided by classical literature. The developments of radiocarbon dating and dendrochronology have significantly advanced scientific knowledge in this area.\n\nThe word \"menhir\" was adopted from French by 19th-century archaeologists. The introduction of the word into general archaeological usage has been attributed to the 18th-century French military officer Théophile Corret de la Tour d'Auvergne. It is a combination of two words of the Breton language: \"maen\" and \"hir\". In modern Welsh, they are described as \"maen hir\", or \"long stone\". In modern Breton, the word \"peulvan\" is used, with \"peul\" meaning \"stake\" or \"post\" and \"van\" which is a soft mutation of the word \"maen\" which means \"stone\".\n\nAlmost nothing is known of the social organization or religious beliefs of the people who erected the menhirs. There is not even any trace of these people's language; however we do know that they buried their dead and had the skills to grow cereal, farm and make pottery, stone tools and jewelry. Identifying their uses remains speculative. Until recently, menhirs were associated with the Beaker people, who inhabited Europe during the European late Neolithic and early Bronze Age—later third millennium BC, c. 2800–1800 BC. However, recent research into the age of megaliths in Brittany strongly suggests a far older origin, perhaps back to six to seven thousand years ago.\n\nMany menhirs are engraved with megalithic art. This often turned them into anthropomorphic stelae, although images of objects such as stone axes, ploughs, shepherd crooks and yokes were common. With the exception of the stone axe, none of these motifs are definite, and the name used to describe them is largely for convenience. Some menhirs were broken up and incorporated into later passage graves, where they had new megalithic art carved with little regard for the previous pictures. It is not known if this re-use was deliberate or if the passage grave builders just saw menhirs as a convenient source of stone (Le Roux 1992).\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, standing stones were believed to have been built by the giants who lived before the biblical flood. Many of the megaliths were destroyed or defaced by early Christians, but it is estimated that some 50,000 megaliths once stood in Northern Europe, where almost 10,000 now remain.\n\nIn the \"Asterix\" comic book series, one of the protagonists, Obelix, is a menhir maker and delivery man.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4714494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4714494", "title": "Mind Ripper", "text": "Mind Ripper\n\nMind Ripper, also known as The Hills Have Eyes III, The Hills Still Have Eyes, or The Outpost, is a horror film released on HBO in 1995. It stars Lance Henriksen and Giovanni Ribisi.\n\nAlthough it is marketed in some areas as a sequel to the original \"The Hills Have Eyes\" and \"The Hills Have Eyes Part II\", no actors, characters, or scenarios link it to those films. Its only connection is producer Wes Craven, who wrote and directed the other two films. His son, Jonathan Craven, is credited as a writer.\n\nSet in a remote desert location, government scientists perform reanimation experiments in an underground nuclear facility. The goal is to create a superhuman. Their first subject, \"Thor\", is a specimen from a suicide found in the desert. In the attempts to bring Thor back, an uncontrollable creature is unleashed. The next morning, a scientist named Alex calls Stockton, one of the overseers of the project, at his home and after an argument, Stockton eventually decides to visit the facility by plane. His son Scott, his daughter Wendy, and Wendy's boyfriend Mark join him.\n\n\nAll music property of Hellnote Recordings\n"}
{"id": "31601480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31601480", "title": "Minister for Tourism and Heritage", "text": "Minister for Tourism and Heritage\n\nThe post of Minister for Tourism and Heritage was a former junior position in the cabinet of the United Kingdom with responsibilities of handling the tourism industry and the heritage and history of England. The Minister of Tourism and Heritage was located within the portfolio of the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.\n\nThe post was at Parliamentary Under Secretary of State level. The former minister of tourism and heritage was John Penrose.\n\nSince the September 2012 reshuffle the responsibilities were split with heritage going to the Minister for Culture, Communications and Creative Industries and the tourism and licensing responsibilities going to the Minister for Sport and Tourism which is now at the Minister of State level\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23815973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23815973", "title": "Music Encoding Initiative", "text": "Music Encoding Initiative\n\nThe Music Encoding Initiative (MEI) is an open-source effort to create a system for representation musical documents in a machine-readable structure. MEI closely mirrors work done by text scholars in the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) and while the two encoding initiatives are not formally related, they share many common characteristics and development practices. The term \"MEI\", like \"TEI\", describes the governing organization and the markup language. The MEI community solicits input and development directions from specialists in various music research communities, including technologists, librarians, historians, and theorists in a common effort to discuss and define best practices for representing a broad range of musical documents and structures. The results of these discussions are then formalized into the MEI schema, a core set of rules for recording physical and intellectual characteristics of music notation documents. This schema is expressed in an XML Schema Language, with RelaxNG being the preferred format. The MEI schema is developed using the One-Document-Does-it-all (ODD) format, a literate programming XML format developed by the Text Encoding Initiative.\n\nMEI is often used for music metadata catalogs, critical editing (particularly of early music), and OMR-based data collection and interchange.\n\nMEI uses permissive software licence; the Educational Community License, Version 2.0, (related to the Apache license, 2.0).\n\nVerovio is a portable, lightweight library for rendering Music Encoding Initiative (MEI) files by transformation into Scalable Vector Graphics format, released under the LGPLv3 license.\n\n"}
{"id": "44198451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44198451", "title": "New Mexico True", "text": "New Mexico True\n\nNew Mexico True is a tourism campaign by the New Mexico Tourism Department. This New Mexico program seeks to focus on being \"authentic and true in its people, landscape and culture\"; the goal being to dismiss misconceptions and misunderstandings of the state, and to create a more cohesive set of statewide tourist destinations, based on personal interests, from New Mexico's various locales. Though it is aimed at broader national and international tourism, it seeks to bring tourists from around neighboring states, Colorado, Arizona, and Texas. The campaign also seeks to educate local businesses and to encourage staycations within the state.\n\nThe New Mexico True tourism $2 million campaign by the New Mexico Tourism Department. Though the campaign has been well received, it has been criticized. The first set of criticism was due to the Tourism Department's use of a non-New Mexican advertising agency to create the campaign, Vendor Inc. from Austin, Texas. Though, when Vendor performed surveys on \"samplings of travelers\", they found the state's basic misunderstandings began at a fundamental level; with the results of the survey being, \"'boring;', a 'desert wasteland' where 'there is not a lot to do'; 'artsy' — which is appealing 'you know for an hour'; 'is the lost state' that many travelers drive through to get to neighboring states; does not offer skiing but does have 'beaches'; and apparently includes El Paso.\" It was from this research that one of the campaigns goals of \"combating the negative perceptions about New Mexico\" derives. The second negative criticism the campaign faced was when \"a California producer\", hired by Vendor, made a casting calling for \"a light-skinned Hispanic\". The New Mexico Tourism Department responded to the criticism by stating that the actor was intended to portray a tourist. They began to proactively pursue local talent, and began to focus on hiring local production companies, like Rio Rancho, New Mexico's CliffDweller Digital to produce shorts like \"New Mexico True Stories\", and the syndicated educational travel television series New Mexico True Television. They also used an Albuquerque, New Mexico based music group for the campaign's theme song \"Feels Like Home\".\n\nThe New Mexico True Trails are a set of recommended locations divided by interest, and then by location.\n\n"}
{"id": "847998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847998", "title": "Occultism in Nazism", "text": "Occultism in Nazism\n\nNazism and occultism describes a range of theories, speculation and research into the origins of Nazism and its possible relation to various occult traditions. Such ideas have been a part of popular culture since at least the early 1940s, and gained renewed popularity starting in the 1960s. There are documentaries and books on the topic, among the most significant are \"The Morning of the Magicians\" (1960) and \"The Spear of Destiny\" (1972). Nazism and occultism has also been featured in numerous films, novels, comic books and other fictional media. A prominent example is the film \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\" (1981).\n\nHistorian Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke analyzed the topic in \"The Occult Roots of Nazism\" in which he argued there were in fact links between some ideals of Ariosophy and Nazi ideology. He also analyzed the problems of the numerous popular occult historiography books written on the topic. He sought to separate empiricism and sociology from the modern mythology of Nazi occultism that exists in many books which \"have represented the Nazi phenomenon as the product of arcane and demonic influence\". He considered most of these to be \"sensational and under-researched\".\n\nHistorian Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke's 1985 book, \"The Occult Roots of Nazism\", discussed the possibility of links between the ideas of the Occult and those of Nazism. The book's main subject was the racist-occult movement of Ariosophy, a major strand of Nationalist Esotericism in Germany and Austria during the 1800s and early 1900s. He described his work as \"an underground history, concerned with the myths, symbols, and fantasies that bear on the development of reactionary, authoritarian, and Nazi styles of thinking\". He focused on this unexamined topic of history because \"fantasies can achieve a causal status once they have been institutionalized in beliefs, values, and social groups.\"\n\nHe describes the Völkisch movement as a sort of anti-modernist, anti-liberal reaction to the many political, social, and economic changes occurring in Germanic Europe in the late 1800s. Part of his argument is that the rapid industrialization and rise of cities changed the \"traditional, rural social order\" and ran into conflict with the \"pre-capitalist attitudes and institutions\" of the area. He described the racially elitist Pan-Germanism movement of ethnic German Austrians as a reaction to Austria not being included in the German Empire of Bismarck.\n\nGoodrick-Clarke opined that the Ariosophist movement took Völkisch ideas but added occultish themes about things like Freemasonry, Kabbalism, and Rosicrucianism in order to \"prove the modern world was based on false and evil principles\". The Ariosophist \"ideas and symbols filtered through to several anti-semitic and Nationalist groups in late Wilhelmian Germany, from which the early Nazi Party emerged in Munich after the First World War.\" He showed some links between two Ariosophists and Heinrich Himmler.\n\nThere is a persistent idea, widely canvassed in a sensational genre of literature, that the Nazis were principally inspired and directed by occult agencies from 1920 to 1945.\n\nAppendix E of Goodrick-Clarke's book is entitled \"The Modern Mythology of Nazi Occultism\". In it, he gives a highly critical view of much of the popular literature on the topic. In his words, these books describe Hitler and the Nazis as being controlled by a \"hidden power . . . characterized either as a discarnate entity (e.g., 'black forces', 'invisible hierarchies', 'unknown superiors') or as a magical elite in a remote age or distant location\". He referred to the writers of this genre as \"crypto-historians\". The works of the genre, he wrote,\nIn a new preface for the 2004 edition of \"The Occult Roots...\" Goodrick-Clarke comments that in 1985, when his book first appeared, \"Nazi 'black magic' was regarded as a topic for sensational authors in pursuit of strong sales.\"\n\nIn his 2002 work \"Black Sun\", which was originally intended to trace the survival of occult Nazi themes in the postwar period, Goodrick-Clarke considered it necessary to readdress the topic. He devotes one chapter of the book to \"the Nazi mysteries\", as he terms the field of Nazi occultism there. Other reliable summaries of the development of the genre have been written by German historians. The German edition of \"The Occult Roots...\" includes an essay \"Nationalsozialismus und Okkultismus\" (\"National Socialism and Occultism\"), which traces the origins of the speculation about Nazi occultism back to publications from the late 1930s, and which was subsequently translated by Goodrick-Clarke into English. The German historian Michael Rißmann has also included a longer \"excursus\" about \"Nationalsozialismus und Okkultismus\" in his acclaimed book on Adolf Hitler's religious beliefs.\n\nAccording to Goodricke-Clarke the speculation of Nazi occultism originated from \"post-war fascination with Nazism\". The \"horrid fascination\" of Nazism upon the Western mind emerges from the \"uncanny interlude in modern history\" that it presents to an observer a few decades later. The idolization of Hitler in Nazi Germany, its short lived dominion on the European continent and Nazism's extreme antisemitism set it apart from other periods of modern history. \"Outside a purely secular frame of reference, Nazism was felt to be the embodiment of evil in a modern twentieth-century regime, a monstrous pagan relapse in the Christian community of Europe.\"\n\nBy the early 1960s, \"one could now clearly detect a mystique of Nazism.\" A sensationalistic and fanciful presentation of its figures and symbols, shorn of all political and historical contexts\", gained ground with thrillers, non-fiction books and films and permeated \"the milieu of popular culture.\"\n\n\"The Occult Roots of Nazism\" is commended for specifically addressing the fanciful modern depictions of Nazi occultism, as well as carefully reflecting critical scholarly work that finds associations between Ariosophy with Nazi agency. As scholar Anna Bramwell writes, \"One should not be deceived by the title into thinking that it belongs to the 'modern mythology of Nazi occultism', a world of salacious fantasy convincingly dismembered by the author in an Appendix,\" referring the various written, depicted, and produced material that delves into Nazi occultism without providing any reliable or relevant evidence. Instead, it is through Goodrick-Clarke's work that several scholarly criticisms addressing occult relevance in conjunction with Ariosophist practices arise.\n\nHistorians like Martyn Housden and Jeremy Noakes commend Goodrick-Clarke for addressing the relationship between Ariosophic ideologies rooted in certain Germanic cultures and the actual agency of Nazi hierarchy; the problem, as Housden remarks, lies in the efficacy of these Ariosophic practices. As he remarks, \"The true value of this study, therefore, lies in its painstaking elucidation of an intrinsically fascinating subculture which helped colour rather than cause aspects of Nazism. In this context, it also leaves us pondering a central issue: why on earth were Austrian and German occultists, just like the Nazi leadership, quite so susceptible to, indeed obsessed by, specifically aggressive racist beliefs anyway?\" Noakes continues this general thought by concluding, \"(Goodrick-Clarke) provides not only a definitive account of the influence of Ariosophy on Nazism, a subject which is prone to sensationalism, but also fascinating insights into the intellectual climate of the late nineteenth and early twentieth century.\" These reviews reflect the greatest dilemmas in Nazi occultist scholarship; the discernment between actual efficacy of possible Occult practices by Nazi leaders, purpose of these practices, and modern notions and applications of Occultism today largely impact the appropriate scholarship in general in making connections between plausible Nazi Ariosophic practices and blatant popular myth.\n\nThe linkages Goodrick-Clarke makes concerning Ariosophy and German society are further detailed in Peter Merkl's \"Political Violence under the Swastika\", \"pre-1933 Nazis\", various NSDAP members, volunteered to write their memoirs and recollections about the rise of the Nazi Party in order to provide a coherent, statistical analysis of the motivations and ideals these early members hoped to pursue in German politics. From the findings, Merkl has found, through statistical evidence, that there were aspects of ideology within German society that favored intense German nationalism, ranging from what was considered to be a \"German Romantic\", one who was \"beholden to the cultural and historical traditions of old Germany…\" to someone classified as a part of an alleged \"Nordic/Hitler Cult\", one who followed Voelkisch (traditional, anti-Semitic) beliefs. To further prove the point, Merkl discovered that of those willing to submit their testimonies, \"Protestants tended to be German Romantics, Catholics to be anti-Semites, superpatriots, and solidarists. Areas of religious homogeneity were particularly high in anti-Semitism or in the Nordic-German cult,\" of which members of both religious groups were prone to Judenkoller, an alleged sudden and violent sickness that would manifest either in blatant hatred or hysteria at being within proximity of Jewish persons. Coincidentally, Merkl mentions a relationship to this Nordic/German- agrarian cult in relation to 19th-century to a \"crypto-Nazi tradition\", despite being written ten years prior to \"The Occult Roots of Nazism\".\n\nSome of this modern mythology even touches Goodrick-Clarke's topic directly. The rumor that Adolf Hitler had encountered the Austrian monk and anti-semitic publicist, Lanz von Liebenfels, already at the age of 8, at Heilgenkreuz abbey, goes back to \"Les mystiques du soleil\" (1971) by Michel-Jean Angbert. \"This episode is wholly imaginary.\"\n\nNevertheless, Michel-Jean Angbert and the other authors discussed by Goodrick-Clarke present their accounts as real, so that this modern mythology has led to several legends that resemble conspiracy theories, concerning, for example, the Vril Society or rumours about Karl Haushofer's connection to the occult. The most influential books were Trevor Ravenscroft's \"The Spear of Destiny\" and \"The Morning of the Magicians\" by Pauwels and Bergier.\n\nOne of the earliest claims of Nazi occultism can be found in Lewis Spence's book \"Occult Causes of the Present War\" (1940). According to Spence, Alfred Rosenberg and his book \"The Myth of the Twentieth Century\" were responsible for promoting pagan, occult and anti-Christian ideas that motivated the Nazi party.\n\nFor a demonic influence on Hitler, Hermann Rauschning's \"Hitler Speaks\" is brought forward as source. However, most modern scholars do not consider Rauschning reliable. (As Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke summarises, \"recent scholarship has almost certainly proved that Rauschning's conversations were mostly invented\".)\n\nSimilarly to Rauschning, August Kubizek, one of Hitler's closest friends since childhood, claims that Hitler—17 years old at the time—once spoke to him of \"returning Germany to its former glory\"; of this comment August said, \"It was as if another being spoke out of his body, and moved him as much as it did me.\"\n\nAn article \"Hitler's Forgotten Library\" by Timothy Ryback, published in \"The Atlantic\" (May 2003), mentions a book from Hitler's private library authored by Ernst Schertel. Schertel, whose interests were flagellation, dance, occultism, nudism and BDSM, had also been active as an activist for sexual liberation before 1933. He had been imprisoned in Nazi Germany for seven months and his doctoral degree was revoked. He is supposed to have sent a dedicated copy of his 1923 book \"\" to Hitler some time in the mid-1920s. Hitler is said to have marked extensive passages, including one which reads \"He who does not have the demonic seed within himself will never give birth to a magical world\".\n\nTheosophist Alice A. Bailey stated during World War II that Adolf Hitler was possessed by what she called the \"Dark Forces\". Her follower Benjamin Creme has stated that through Hitler (and a group of equally evil men around him in Nazi Germany, together with a group of militarists in Japan and a further group around Mussolini in Italy) was released the energies of the Antichrist, which, according to theosophical teachings is not an individual person but forces of destruction.\n\nAccording to James Herbert Brennan in his book \"Occult Reich\", Hitler's mentor, Dietrich Eckhart (to whom Hitler dedicates \"Mein Kampf\"), wrote to a friend of his in 1923: \"Follow Hitler! He will dance, but it is I who have called the tune. We have given him the 'means of communication' with Them. Do not mourn for me; I shall have influenced history more than any other German.\"\n\nConspiracy theorists \"frequently identify German National Socialism inter alia as a precursor of the New World Order\". With regard to Hitler's later ambition of imposing a National Socialist regime throughout Europe, Nazi propaganda used the term \"Neuordnung\" (often poorly translated as \"the New Order\", while actually referring to the \"re-structurization\" of state borders on the European map and the resulting post-war economic hegemony of Greater Germany), so one could probably say that the Nazis pursued a new world order in terms of politics. But the claim that Hitler and the Thule Society conspired to create a New World Order (a conspiracy theory, put forward on some webpages) is completely unfounded.\n\nThere are also unverifiable rumours that the occultist Aleister Crowley sought to contact Hitler during World War II. Despite several allegations and speculations to the contrary (e.g. Giorgio Galli) there is no evidence of such an encounter. In 1991, John Symonds, one of Crowley's literary executors published a book: \"The Medusa's Head or Conversations between Aleister Crowley and Adolf Hitler\", which has definitively been shown to be literary fiction. That the edition of this book was limited to 350 also contributed to the mystery surrounding the topic. Mention of a contact between Crowley and Hitler—without any sources or evidence—is also made in a letter from René Guénon to Julius Evola dated October 29, 1949, which later reached a broader audience.\n\nWhen \"Hitler and the Occult\" describes how Hitler \"seemed endowed with even greater authority and charisma\" after he had resumed public speaking in March 1927, the documentary states that \"this may have been due to the influence\" of the clairvoyant performer and publicist, Erik Jan Hanussen. It is said that \"Hanussen helped Hitler perfect a series of exaggerated poses,\" useful for speaking before a huge audience. The documentary then interviews Dusty Sklar about the contact between Hitler and Hanussen, and the narrator makes the statement about \"occult techniques of mind control and crowd domination\".\n\nWhether Hitler had met Hanussen at all is not certain. That he even encountered him before March 1927 is not confirmed by other sources about Hanussen. In the late 1920s to early 1930s Hanussen made political predictions in his own newspaper, \"Hanussens Bunte Wochenschau\", that gradually started to favour Hitler, but until late 1932 these predictions varied. In 1929, Hanussen predicted, for example, that Wilhelm II would return to Germany in 1930 and that the problem of unemployment would be solved in 1931.\n\nSir Winston Churchill wrote in his memoir \"The Gathering Storm\" about Hitler and Moloch: \"[Hitler] had conjured up the fearful idol of an all-devouring Moloch of which he was the priest and incarnation\".\n\nNazi mysticism in German culture is further expanded upon within Manfred Nagl's article \"SF (Science Fiction), Occult Sciences, and Nazi Myths\", published in the journal \"Science Fiction Studies\". In it, Nagl writes that the racial narratives described in contemporary German Science Fiction stories, like The Last Queen of Atlantis, by Edmund Kiss, provide further notions of racial superiority under the auspices of Ariosophy, Aryanism, and alleged historic racial Mysticism, suggesting that writings associated with possible Occultism, Ariosophy, or Aryanism were products intended to influence and justify in a socio-political manner, rather than simply establish cultural heritage. The stories themselves dealt with \"...heroes, charismatic leader types, (who) have been chosen by fate – with the resources of a sophisticated and extremely powerful technology\".\" Nagl considers science fiction pieces like Atlantis further fueled the violent persuasiveness of Nazi leaders, such as Adolf Hitler and Heinrich Himmler, as further justification for a \"Nazi elite (envisioning) for itself in occupied East European territories\". This, in turn, allegedly propagated public support of Nazi ideology, summated by Nagl as \"a tremendous turning back of culture, away from the age of reason and consciousness, toward the age of a 'sleepwalking certainty', the age of supra-rational magic\".\n\nIn the essay that is included in the German edition of \"The Occult Roots...\", H. T. Hakl, an Austrian publisher of esoteric works, traces the origins of the speculation about National Socialism and Occultism back to several works from the early 1940s. His research was also published in a short book, \"Unknown sources: National Socialism and the Occult\", translated by Goodrick-Clarke. Already in 1933 a pseudonymous \"Kurt van Emsen\" described Hitler as a \"demonic personality\", but his work was soon forgotten. The first allusions that Hitler was directed by occult forces which were taken up by the later authors came from French Christian esotericist René Kopp. In two articles published in the monthly esoteric journal \"Le Chariot\" from June 1934 and April 1939, he seeks to trace the source of Hitler's power to supernatural forces. The second article was titled: \"L'Enigme du Hitler\". In other French esoteric journals of the 1930s, Hakl could not find similar hints. In 1939 another French author, Edouard Saby, published a book: \"Hitler et les Forces Occultes\". Saby already mentions Hanussen and Ignaz Trebitsch-Lincoln. Hakl even hints that Edouard Saby would have the copyright on the myth of Nazi occultism. However, another significant book from 1939 is better known: Hermann Rauschning's \"Hitler Speaks\". There it is said (in the chapter \"Black and White Magic\"), that \"Hitler surrendered himself to forces that carried him away. (...) He turned himself over to a spell, which can, with good reason and not simply in a figurative analogy, be described as demonic magic.\" The chapter \"Hitler in private\" is even more dramatic, and was left out in the German edition from 1940.\n\nGoodrick-Clarke examines several pseudo-historic \"books written about Nazi occultism between 1960 and 1975\", that \"were typically sensational and under-researched\". He terms this genre \"crypto-history\", as its defining element and \"final point of explanatory reference is an agent which has remained concealed to previous historians of National Socialism\". Characteristic tendencies of this literature include: (1) \"a complete ignorance of primary sources\" and (2) the repetition of \"inaccuracies and wild claims\", without the attempt being made to confirm even \"wholly spurious 'facts'\". Books debunked in Appendix E of \"The Occult Roots of Nazism\" are:\n\n\nThese books are only mentioned in the Appendix. Otherwise the whole book by Goodrick-Clarke does without any reference to this kind of literature; it uses other sources. This literature is not reliable; however, books published after the emergence of \"The Occult Roots of Nazism\" continue to repeat claims that have been proven false:\n\n\nMore than 60 years after the end of the Third Reich, National Socialism and Adolf Hitler have become a recurring subject in history documentaries. Among these documentaries, there are several that focus especially on the potential relations between Nazism and Occultism, such as the History Channel's documentary \"Hitler and the Occult\". As evidence of Hitler's \"occult power\" this documentary offers, for example, the infamous statement by Joachim von Ribbentrop of his continued subservience to Hitler at the Nuremberg Trials. After the author Dusty Sklar has pointed out that Hitler's suicide happened at the night of April 30/May 1, which is Walpurgis Night, the narrator continues: \"With Hitler gone, it was as if a spell had been broken\". A much more plausible reason for Hitler's suicide (that does not involve the paranormal) is that the Russians had already closed to within several hundred meters of Hitler's bunker and he did not want to be captured alive.\nFrom the perspective of academic history, these documentaries on Nazism, if ever commented, are seen as problematic because they do not contribute to an actual understanding of the problems that arise in the study of Nazism and Neo-Nazism. Without referring to a specific documentary Mattias Gardell, a historian who studies contemporary separatist groups, writes:\n\n\"Hitler and the Occult\" includes a scene in which Hitler is seen as speaking at a huge mass meeting. While Hitler's speech is not translated, the narrator talks about the German occultist and stage mentalist Erik Jan Hanussen: \"Occultists believe, Hanussen may also have imparted occult techniques of mind control and crowd domination on Hitler\" (see below). When historians have noted the existence of such \"myths\" as those about Erik Jan Hanussen, they have displayed nothing but academic contempt for their originators.\n\nAt least one documentary, \"Hitler's Search for the Holy Grail,\" includes footage from the 1939 German expedition to Tibet. The documentary describes it as \"the most ambitious expedition\" of the SS. This original video material was made accessible again by Marco Dolcetta in his series \"Il Nazismo Esoterico\" in 1994. An interview that Dolcetta conducted with Schäfer does not support the theories of Nazi occultism, neither does Reinhard Greve's 1995 article \"Tibetforschung im SS Ahnenerbe\" (\"Tibet Research Within the SS Ahnenerbe\"), although the latter does mention the occult thesis. Hakl comments that Greve should have emphasized the unreliability of authors like Bergier and Pauwels or Angbert more. Ernst Schäfer's expedition report explicitly remarks on the \"worthless goings-on\" by \"a whole army of quacksalvers\" concerning Asia and especially Tibet.\n\n\n(Different editions have different episodes)\n\nThe image of a connection between Nazism and the occult is a common theme in fantasy fiction. One could also ask whether \"The Morning of the Magicians\" should not be considered as fiction, since the authors fail to clearly state that it was supposed to be fact. Aside from such considerations, there are also many accounts of Nazi occultism that are clearly fictional.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "381219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381219", "title": "Open access", "text": "Open access\n\nOpen access (OA) refers to research outputs which are distributed online and free of cost or other barriers, and possibly with the addition of a Creative Commons license to promote reuse. Open access can be applied to all forms of published research output, including peer-reviewed and non peer-reviewed academic journal articles, conference papers, theses, book chapters, and monographs.\nAcademic articles (as historically seen in paper-based academic journals) have been the main focus of the movement. Conventional (non-open access) journals cover publishing costs through access tolls such as subscriptions, site licenses or pay-per-view charges. Open access research is advanced by a range of distribution mechanisms and business models. These include:\n\nAdvantages and disadvantages of open access have generated considerable discussion amongst researchers, academics, librarians, university administrators, funding agencies, government officials, commercial publishers, editorial staff and society publishers. Reactions of existing publishers to open access journal publishing have ranged from moving with enthusiasm to a new open access business model, to experiments with providing as much free or open access as possible, to active lobbying against open access proposals. There are many publishers that started up as open access-only publishers, such as PLOS, Hindawi Publishing Corporation, Frontiers in... journals, MDPI and BioMed Central.\n\nIn order to reflect actual practice in providing two different types of open access, the further distinction between gratis open access and libre open access was added in 2006 by the principal drafter of the original BOAI definition. Gratis open access refers to online access free of charge, and libre open access refers to online access free of charge plus some additional re-use rights. Libre open access covers the kinds of open access defined in the Budapest Open Access Initiative, the Bethesda Statement on Open Access Publishing and the Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and Humanities. The re-use rights of libre OA are often specified by various specific Creative Commons licenses; these almost all require attribution of authorship to the original authors.\n\nOne option for authors who wish to make their work openly accessible is to publish in a journal or book that makes research output immediately available from the publisher. This is sometimes referred to as gold open access.\n\nThere are many financial models for open access publications. Open access can be provided by commercial publishers, who may publish open access as well as subscription-based journals, or dedicated open-access publishers such as Public Library of Science (PLOS) and BioMed Central.\n\nIn one model of open access, journals generate revenue by charging publication fees in order to make the work openly available at the time of publication. The money might come from the author but more often comes from the author's research grant or employer. Some publishers will waive all or part of the fee for authors from less developed economies. Journals charging publication fees normally take various steps to ensure that peer reviewers do not know whether authors have requested, or been granted, fee waivers, or to ensure that every paper is approved by an independent editor with no financial stake in the journal. While the payments are often incurred \"per article published\" (e.g. BMC journals or PLOS ONE), there are some journals that apply them \"per manuscript submitted\" (e.g. Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics until recently) or \"per author\" (PeerJ). As of June 2018, only 26% of journals in the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) required payment of article processing charges. A 2013 study showed this practice was higher in journals with a scientific or medical focus (43% and 47% respectively), and lowest in journals publishing in the arts and humanities (0% and 4% respectively). Traditionally, many academic journals levied page charges, long before open access became a possibility.\n\nThere currently is a growing global debate regarding open access's ideology and ethics and its related article processing charges, as they are being created and managed by academic journal and monograph publisher conglomerates together with some national and international academic institutions and government bodies. One controversy is \"double dipping\", where both authors and subscribers are charged. Groups offering open access solutions include the Publishers for Development and Research4Life projects and activities.\n\nNo-fee open access journals, also known as \"platinum\" or \"diamond\" have no fees for readers and no article processing charges or publication fees for authors. They use a variety of business models. As summarized by Peter Suber: \"Some no-fee OA journals have direct or indirect subsidies from institutions like universities, laboratories, research centers, libraries, hospitals, museums, learned societies, foundations, or government agencies. Some have revenue from a separate line of non-OA publications. Some have revenue from advertising, auxiliary services, membership dues, endowments, reprints, or a print or premium edition. Some rely, more than other journals, on volunteerism. Some undoubtedly use a combination of these means\".\n\nOpen access monographs are subsidized through a variety of means as well. Knowledge Unlatched and unglue.it crowdsource funding in order to make a work available open access.\n\nSelf-archiving, also known as green open access, refers to the practice of depositing articles in an open access repository, where it can be accessed for free. Repositories may be specific to an institution, a discipline (e.g.arXiv), a scholarly society (e.g. MLA's CORE Repository), or a funder (e.g.PubMed Central).\nThe Open Archives Initiative (OAI) lists 2937 conforming repositories.\n\nOpen access self-archiving was first formally proposed in 1994 by Stevan Harnad in his \"Subversive Proposal\". However, self-archiving was already being done by computer scientists in their local FTP archives in the 1980s, later harvested into CiteSeer.\n\nMany publishers permit authors to self-archive in an open access repository, but may place restrictions on which version of the work may be shared and/or require an embargo period following the original date of publication. What is deposited can be either a preprint, or the peer-reviewed postprint – either the author's refereed, revised final draft or the publisher's version of record. Some publishers require delays, or an embargo, on when a research output in a repository may be made open access. To find out if a publisher or journal has given a green light to author self-archiving, the author can check the Publisher Copyright Policies and Self-Archiving list on the SHERPA/RoMEO web site.\n\nSearching each open access repository individually is impractical. \nOpen access articles can be found with a web search, using any general search engine or those specialized for the scholarly and scientific literature, such as: Google Scholar, OAIster, \nopenaccess.xyz, base-search.net, core.ac.uk.\n\nMany open-access repositories offer a programmable interface to query their content.\nSome of them use a generic protocol, such as OAI-PMH (eg base-search.net, HAL).\nIn addition, some repositories propose a specific API, such as the arXiv API, the Dissemin API, the Unpaywall/oadoi API, the base-search API.\n\nLike the self-archived green open access articles, most gold open access journal articles are distributed via the World Wide Web, due to low distribution costs, increasing reach, speed, and increasing importance for scholarly communication. Open source software is sometimes used for open access repositories, , and other aspects of open access provision and open access publishing.\n\nAccess to online content requires Internet access, and this distributional consideration presents physical and sometimes financial barriers to access. Proponents of open access argue that Internet access barriers are relatively low in many circumstances, that efforts should be made to subsidize universal Internet access, whereas pay-for-access presents a relatively high additional barrier over and above Internet access itself.\n\nThere are various open access aggregators that list open access journals or articles. ROAD (the Directory of Open Access scholarly Resources) synthesizes information about open access journals and is a subset of the ISSN register. The OALibrary provides open and free access to a large database of scientific research papers, covering all topics. Users may browse to find open access journals by country or by subject. SHERPA/RoMEO lists international publishers that allow the published version of articles to be deposited in institutional repositories. The Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) contains over 8,000 peer-reviewed open access journals of varying open access policies for searching and browsing\n\nIn 1998, several universities founded the Public Knowledge Project to foster open access, and developed the open-source journal publishing system Open Journal Systems, among other scholarly software projects. As of 2010, it was being used by approximately 5,000 journals worldwide.\n\nSeveral initiatives provide an alternative to the American and English language dominance of existing publication indexing systems, including Index Copernicus (Polish), SciELO (Portuguese, Spanish) and Redalyc (Spanish).\n\nMany universities, research institutions and research funders have adopted mandates requiring their researchers to provide open access to their peer-reviewed research articles by self-archiving them in an open access repository. Research Councils UK spent nearly £60m on supporting their open access mandate between 2013 and 2016. Some publishers and publisher associations have lobbied against introducing mandates.\n\nThe idea of mandating self-archiving was mooted at least as early as 1998. Since 2003 efforts have been focused on open access mandating by the funders of research: governments, research funding agencies, and universities.\n\nThe Registry of Open Access Repository Mandates and Policies (ROARMAP) is a searchable international database charting the growth of open access mandates. As of December 2017, mandates have been registered by over 600 universities (including Harvard, MIT, Stanford, University College London, and University of Edinburgh) and over 100 research funders worldwide.\n\nOpen access itself (mostly green and gratis) began to be sought and provided worldwide by researchers when the possibility itself was opened by the advent of Internet and the World Wide Web. The momentum was further increased by a growing movement for academic journal publishing reform, and with it gold and libre OA. Electronic publishing created new benefits as compared to paper publishing but beyond that, it contributed to causing problems in traditional publishing models.\n\nThe premises behind open access publishing are that there are viable funding models to maintain traditional peer review standards of quality while also making the following changes:\n\nAn obvious advantage of open access journals is the free access to scientific papers regardless of affiliation with a subscribing library and improved access for the general public; this is especially true in developing countries. Lower costs for research in academia and industry have been claimed in the Budapest Open Access Initiative, although others have argued that OA may raise the total cost of publication, and further increase economic incentives for exploitation in academic publishing. The open access movement is motivated by the problems of social inequality caused by restricting access to academic research, which favor large and wealthy institutions with the financial means to purchase access to many journals, as well as the economic challenges and perceived unsustainability of academic publishing.\n\nThe intended audience of research articles is usually other researchers. Open access helps researchers as readers by opening up access to articles that their libraries do not subscribe to. One of the great beneficiaries of open access may be users in developing countries, where currently some universities find it difficult to pay for subscriptions required to access the most recent journals. Some schemes exist for providing subscription scientific publications to those affiliated to institutions in developing countries at little or no cost. All researchers benefit from open access as no library can afford to subscribe to every scientific journal and most can only afford a small fraction of them – this is known as the \"serials crisis\".\n\nOpen access extends the reach of research beyond its immediate academic circle. An open access article can be read by anyone – a professional in the field, a researcher in another field, a journalist, a politician or civil servant, or an interested layperson. Indeed, a 2008 study revealed that mental health professionals are roughly twice as likely to read a relevant article if it is freely available.\n\nThe main reason authors make their articles openly accessible is to maximize their research impact. \nThere have been claims of higher citation rates for open access authors. The overall citation rates for a time period of 2 years (2010–2011) were 30% higher for subscription journals, but, after controlling for discipline, journal age and publisher location, the differences largely disappeared in most subcategories, except for those launched prior to 1996. A study in 2001 first reported an open access citation impact advantage,\n\nTwo major studies dispute the claim that open access articles lead to more citations. A randomized controlled trial of open access publishing involving 36 participating journals in the sciences, social sciences, and humanities found that open access articles (n=712) received significantly more downloads and reached a broader audience within the first year, yet were cited no more frequently, nor earlier, than subscription-access control articles (n=2533) within 3 years.\n\nMany other studies, both major and minor and with varying degrees of methodological rigor, find that an open access article is more likely to be used and cited than one behind subscription barriers.\n\nFor example, a 2006 study in \"PLoS Biology\" found that articles published as immediate open access in \"PNAS\" were three times more likely to be cited than non-open access papers, and were also cited more than \"PNAS\" articles that were only self-archived. This result has been challenged as an artifact of authors self-selectively paying to publish their higher quality articles in hybrid open access journals, whereas a 2010 study found that the open access citation advantage was equally big whether self-archiving was self-selected or mandated.\n\nA 2010 study of 27,197 articles in 1,984 journals used institutionally mandated open access instead of randomized open access to control for bias on the part of authors toward self-selectively making their better (hence more citeable) articles open access. The result was a replication of the repeatedly reported open access citation advantage, with the advantage being equal in size and significance whether the open access was self-selected or mandated.\n\nA 2016 study reported that the odds of an open access journal being referenced on the English Wikipedia are 47% higher than for paywalled journals, and suggested that this constitutes a significant \"amplifier\" effect for science published on such platforms.\n\nScholars are paid by research funders and/or their universities to do research; the published article is the report of the work they have done, rather than an item for commercial gain. The more the article is used, cited, applied and built upon, the better for research as well as for the researcher's career. Open access can reduce publication delays, an obstacle which led some research fields such as high-energy physics to adopt widespread preprint access.\n\nSome professional organizations have encouraged use of open access: in 2001, the International Mathematical Union communicated to its members that \"Open access to the mathematical literature is an important goal\" and encouraged them to \"[make] available electronically as much of our own work as feasible\" to \"[enlarge] the reservoir of freely available primary mathematical material, particularly helping scientists working without adequate library access.\"\n\nResearch funding agencies and universities want to ensure that the research they fund and support in various ways has the greatest possible research impact. As a means of achieving this, research funders are beginning to expect open access to the research they support. Many of them (including all seven UK Research Councils) have already adopted green open access self-archiving mandates, and others are on the way to do so (see ROARMAP).\n\nIn 2008, the NIH Public Access Policy, an open access mandate was put into law, and required that research papers describing research funded by the National Institutes of Health must be available to the public free through PubMed Central within 12 months of publication.\n\nA growing number of universities are providing institutional repositories in which their researchers can deposit their published articles. Some open access advocates believe that institutional repositories will play a very important role in responding to open access mandates from funders. EnablingOpenScholarship (EPS) provides universities with OA policy-building.\n\nIn May 2005, 16 major Dutch universities cooperatively launched DAREnet, the Digital Academic Repositories, making over 47,000 research papers available to anyone with internet access. From 1 January 2007, at the completion of the DARE programme, KNAW Research Information has taken over responsibility for the DAREnet portal. On 2 June 2008, DAREnet has been incorporated into the scholarly portal NARCIS. At the end of 2009, NARCIS provided access to 185,000 open access publications from all Dutch universities, KNAW, NWO and a number of scientific institutes.\n\nIn 2011, a group of universities in North America formed the Coalition of Open Access Policy Institutions (COAPI). Starting with 21 institutions where the faculty had either established an open access policy or were in the process of implementing one, COAPI now has nearly 50 members. These institutions' administrators, faculty and librarians, and staff support the international work of the Coalition's awareness-raising and advocacy for open access. Members agree to the following COAPI Principles:\n\nIn 2012, the Harvard Open Access Project released its guide to good practices for university open-access policies, focusing on rights-retention policies that allow universities to distribute faculty research without seeking permission from publishers.\n\nIn 2013 a group of nine Australian universities formed the Australian Open Access Support Group (AOASG) to advocate, collaborate, raise awareness, and lead and build capacity in the open access space in Australia. In 2015, the group expanded to include all eight New Zealand universities and was renamed the Australasian Open Access Support Group. It was then renamed the Australasian Open Access Strategy Group, highlighting its emphasis on strategy. The awareness raising activities of the AOASG include presentations, workshops, blogs, and a webinar series on open access issues.\n\nAs information professionals, librarians are vocal and active advocates of open access. These librarians believe that open access promises to remove both the \"price barriers\" and the \"permission barriers\" that undermine library efforts to provide access to the scholarly record, as well as helping to address the serials crisis. Many library associations have either signed major open access declarations, or created their own. For example, the Canadian Library Association endorsed a Resolution on Open Access in June 2005.\n\nLibrarians also lead education and outreach initiatives to faculty, administrators, and others about the benefits of open access. For example, the Association of College and Research Libraries of the American Library Association has developed a Scholarly Communications Toolkit. The Association of Research Libraries has documented the need for increased access to scholarly information, and was a leading founder of the Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition (SPARC).\n\nAt most universities, the library manages the institutional repository, which provides free access to scholarly work by the university's faculty. The Canadian Association of Research Libraries has a program to develop institutional repositories at all Canadian university libraries.\n\nAn increasing number of libraries provide hosting services for open access journals. A 2008 survey by the Association of Research Libraries found that 65% of surveyed libraries either are involved in journal publishing, or are planning to become involved in the very near future.\n\nIn 2013, open access activist Aaron Swartz was posthumously awarded the American Library Association's James Madison Award for being an \"outspoken advocate for public participation in government and unrestricted access to peer-reviewed scholarly articles\". In March 2013, the entire editorial board and the editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Library Administration\" resigned en masse, citing a dispute with the journal's publisher. One board member wrote of a \"crisis of conscience about publishing in a journal that was not open access\" after the death of Aaron Swartz.\n\nThe pioneer of the open access movement in France and one of the first librarians to advocate the self-archiving approach to open access worldwide is Hélène Bosc. Her work is described in her \"15-year retrospective\".\n\nOpen access to scholarly research is argued to be important to the public for a number of reasons. One of the arguments for public access to the scholarly literature is that most of the research is paid for by taxpayers through government grants, who therefore have a right to access the results of what they have funded. This is one of the primary reasons for the creation of advocacy groups such as The Alliance for Taxpayer Access in the US. Examples of people who might wish to read scholarly literature include individuals with medical conditions (or family members of such individuals) and serious hobbyists or 'amateur' scholars who may be interested in specialized scientific literature (e.g. amateur astronomers). Additionally, professionals in many fields may be interested in continuing education in the research literature of their field, and many businesses and academic institutions cannot afford to purchase articles from or subscriptions to much of the research literature that is published under a toll access model.\n\nEven those who do not read scholarly articles benefit indirectly from open access. For example, patients benefit when their doctor and other health care professionals have access to the latest research. As argued by open access advocates, open access speeds research progress, productivity, and knowledge translation. Every researcher in the world can read an article, not just those whose library can afford to subscribe to the particular journal in which it appears. Faster discoveries benefit everyone. High school and junior college students can gain the information literacy skills critical for the knowledge age. Critics of the various open access initiatives claim that there is little evidence that a significant amount of scientific literature is currently unavailable to those who would benefit from it. While no library has subscriptions to every journal that might be of benefit, virtually all published research can be acquired via interlibrary loan. Note that interlibrary loan may take a day or weeks depending on the loaning library and whether they will scan and email, or mail the article. Open access online, by contrast is faster, often immediate, making it more suitable than interlibrary loan for fast-paced research.\n\nIn developing nations, open access archiving and publishing acquires a unique importance. Scientists, health care professionals, and institutions in developing nations often do not have the capital necessary to access scholarly literature, although schemes exist to give them access for little or no cost. Among the most important is HINARI, the Health InterNetwork Access to Research Initiative, sponsored by the World Health Organization. HINARI, however, also has restrictions. For example, individual researchers may not register as users unless their institution has access, and several countries that one might expect to have access do not have access at all (not even \"low-cost\" access) (e.g. South Africa).\n\nMany open access projects involve international collaboration. For example, the SciELO (Scientific Electronic Library Online), is a comprehensive approach to full open access journal publishing, involving a number of Latin American countries. Bioline International, a non-profit organization dedicated to helping publishers in developing countries is a collaboration of people in the UK, Canada, and Brazil; the Bioline International Software is used around the world. Research Papers in Economics (RePEc), is a collaborative effort of over 100 volunteers in 45 countries. The Public Knowledge Project in Canada developed the open source publishing software Open Journal Systems (OJS), which is now in use around the world, for example by the African Journals Online group, and one of the most active development groups is Portuguese. This international perspective has resulted in advocacy for the development of open-source appropriate technology and the necessary open access to relevant information for sustainable development.\n\nThe main argument against open access, author's paid fee based journals, is the possible damage to the peer review system, diminishing the overall quality of scientific journal publishing. For example, in 2009, a hoax paper generated by a computer program was accepted for publication by a major publisher under the author-pays-for-publication model. In a similar incident, a staff writer for Science magazine and popular science publications targeted the open access system in 2013 by submitting to some such journals a deeply flawed paper on the purported effect of a lichen constituent. About 60% of those journals, including journals published by the major academic publishers Sage Publications and Elsevier the Journal of Natural Pharmaceuticals, accepted the faked medical paper. However, journals published by notable open access publishers PLOS, BioMed Central, and Hindawi Publishing Corporation rejected the fake article. In addition, the faked paper was not published in subscription journals as a control. As a result, this experiment was criticized for using a flawed methodology and not including a control group. Many newer open access journals also lack the reputation of their subscription counterparts, which have been in business for decades. This effect has been diminishing though since 2001, reflecting the emergence of high quality professional open access publishers such as PLOS and BioMed Central.\n\nOpponents of the open access model continue to assert that the pay-for-access model is necessary to ensure that the publishers are adequately compensated for their work. Scholarly journal publishers that support pay-for-access claim that the \"gatekeeper\" role they play, maintaining a scholarly reputation, arranging for peer review, and editing and indexing articles, require economic resources that are not supplied under an open access model. Opponents claim that open access is not necessary to ensure fair access for developing nations; differential pricing or financial aid from developed countries or institutions can make access to proprietary journals affordable. Some critics also point out the lack of funding for author fees.\n\nA study published in 2010 showed that roughly 20% of the total number of peer-reviewed articles published in 2008 could be found openly accessible.<ref name=\"doi10.1371/journal.pone.0011273\"></ref> Another study found that by 2010, 7.9% of all academic journals with impact factors were gold open access journals and showed a broad distribution of Gold Open Access journals throughout academic disciplines. 8.5% of the journal literature could be found free at the publishers’ sites (gold open access), of which 62% in full open access journals, 14% in delayed-access subscription journals, and 24% as individually open articles in otherwise subscription journals. For an additional 11.9% of the articles, open access full text copies were available via green open access in either subject-based repositories (43%), institutional repositories (24%) or on the home pages of the authors or their departments (33%). These copies were further classified into exact copies of the published article (38%), manuscripts as accepted for publishing (46%) or manuscripts as submitted (15%).\n\nIn the 2010 study, of all scientific fields chemistry had the lowest overall share of open access (13%), while Earth Sciences had the highest (33%). In medicine, biochemistry and chemistry gold publishing in open access journals was more common than author self-archiving. In all other fields self-archiving was more common.\nIn 2009, there were approximately 4,800 active open access journals, publishing around 190,000 articles. As of October 2015, this had increased to over 10,000 open access journals listed in the Directory of Open Access Journals, though this number has fallen to 9,500 in January 2017. A study of random journals from the citations indexes AHSCI, SCI and SSCI in 2013 came to the result that 88% of the journals were closed access and 12% were open access.\n\nIn August 2013, a study done for the European Commission reported that 50% of a random sample of all articles published in 2011 as indexed by Scopus were freely accessible online by the end of 2012. A 2017 study by the Max Planck Society put the share of gold access articles in pure open access journals at around 13 percent of total research papers.\n\nThe Registry of Open Access Repositories (ROAR) indexes the creation, location and growth of open access open access repositories and their contents. As of December 2017, over 4,500 institutional and cross-institutional repositories have been registered in ROAR.\n\n\n\n==Cells — Open Access Journal of Cell Biology\nCells (ISSN 2073-4409; CODEN: CELLC6) is an international peer-reviewed open access journal of cell biology, molecular biology, and biophysics. Cells is published monthly online by MDPI. \nOpen Access - free for readers, with article processing charges (APC) paid by authors or their institutions.\nHigh visibility: indexed by the Science Citation Index Expanded (Web of Science) and BIOSIS Previews. Citations available now in PubMed, full-text archived in PubMed Central.\nRapid publication: manuscripts are peer-reviewed and a first decision provided to authors approximately 17 days after submission; acceptance to publication is undertaken in 3.3 days (median values for papers published in the first six months of 2018).\nRecognition of Reviewers: reviewers who provide timely, thorough peer-review reports receive vouchers entitling them to a discount on the APC of their next publication in any MDPI journal, in appreciation of the work done.\nSections: published in six topical sections.\nImpact Factor: 4.829 (2017)\n\nFull Imprint Information | Download Journal Flyer Further reading ==\n\n"}
{"id": "39906307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39906307", "title": "Overseas Student Health Cover", "text": "Overseas Student Health Cover\n\nOverseas Student Health Care is a compulsory health insurance product required by international students studying in Australia. OSHC is an insurance product that basically gives international students a level of insurance coverage that is based on the Australian Medicare system. Overseas Student Health Cover is commonly referred to as OSHC. Students can arrange to pay for their OSHC through their educational institution. However, students can still choose their own OSHC provider even when their educational institution makes a specific recommendation because they have negotiated a preferred provider arrangement with a particular insurer.\n\nOSHC is only able to be offered by Australian private health insurers who have signed the Deed for the provision of Overseas Student Health Cover with the Australian government. The Deed outlines the conditions required to be met by the registered insurers in order to offer the OSHC product. A legal document between the Commonwealth of Australia and the relevant insurer, the Deed dictates the minimum benefits payable by the insurer, in addition to conditions for which it is not required to pay any benefits. \nIn addition, clause 6.8 of the Deed stipulates the conditions under which the insurers can terminate policies and make refunds, specifically:\n\n\nOSHC is not needed if the student is:\n\n\nAs at 30 June 2013, there were 5 health insurers who are signatories to the Australian Government the Deed for the provision of Overseas Student Health Cover enabling them to offer OSHC. These insurers are:\n\nOSHC Australia is website that assists students to help select their OSHC cover: http://oshcaustralia.com.au.\n"}
{"id": "24255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24255", "title": "Pandemic", "text": "Pandemic\n\nA pandemic (from Greek πᾶν \"pan\" \"all\" and δῆμος \"demos\" \"people\") is an epidemic of infectious disease that has spread across a large region; for instance multiple continents, or even worldwide.\n\nA widespread endemic disease that is stable in terms of how many people are getting sick from it is not a pandemic. Further, flu pandemics generally exclude recurrences of seasonal flu. Throughout history, there have been a number of pandemics, such as smallpox and tuberculosis. One of the most devastating pandemics was the Black Death, which killed over 75 million people in 1350. The most recent pandemics include the HIV pandemic as well as the 1918 and 2009 H1N1 pandemics.\n\nA pandemic is an epidemic occurring on a scale which crosses international boundaries, usually affecting a large number of people. Pandemics can also occur in important agricultural organisms (livestock, crop plants, fish, tree species) or in other organisms.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) has a six-stage classification that describes the process by which a novel influenza virus moves from the first few infections in humans through to a pandemic. This starts with the virus mostly infecting animals, with a few cases where animals infect people, then moves through the stage where the virus begins to spread directly between people, and ends with a pandemic when infections from the new virus have spread worldwide and it will be out of control until we stop it.\n\nA disease or condition is not a pandemic merely because it is widespread or kills many people; it must also be infectious. For instance, cancer is responsible for many deaths but is not considered a pandemic because the disease is not infectious or contagious.\n\nIn a virtual press conference in May 2009 on the influenza pandemic, Dr Keiji Fukuda, Assistant Director-General \"ad interim\" for Health Security and Environment, WHO said \"An easy way to think about pandemic … is to say: a pandemic is a global outbreak. Then you might ask yourself: 'What is a global outbreak'? Global outbreak means that we see both spread of the agent … and then we see disease activities in addition to the spread of the virus.\"\n\nIn planning for a possible influenza pandemic, the WHO published a document on pandemic preparedness guidance in 1999, revised in 2005 and in February 2009, defining phases and appropriate actions for each phase in an aide memoir entitled \"WHO pandemic phase descriptions and main actions by phase\". The 2009 revision, including definitions of a pandemic and the phases leading to its declaration, were finalized in February 2009. The pandemic H1N1 2009 virus was neither on the horizon at that time nor mentioned in the document. All versions of this document refer to influenza. The phases are defined by the spread of the disease; virulence and mortality are not mentioned in the current WHO definition, although these factors have previously been included.\n\nHIV originated in Africa, and spread to the United States via Haiti between 1966 and 1972. AIDS is currently a pandemic, with infection rates as high as 25% in southern and eastern Africa. In 2006, the HIV prevalence rate among pregnant women in South Africa was 29.1%. Effective education about safer sexual practices and bloodborne infection precautions training have helped to slow down infection rates in several African countries sponsoring national education programs. Infection rates are rising again in Asia and the Americas. The AIDS death toll in Africa may reach 90–100 million by 2025.\n\nThere have been a number of significant pandemics recorded in human history, generally zoonoses which came about with domestication of animals, such as influenza and tuberculosis. There have been a number of particularly significant epidemics that deserve mention above the \"mere\" destruction of cities:\n\n\nEncounters between European explorers and populations in the rest of the world often introduced local epidemics of extraordinary virulence. Disease killed part of the native population of the Canary Islands in the 16th century (Guanches). Half the native population of Hispaniola in 1518 was killed by smallpox. Smallpox also ravaged Mexico in the 1520s, killing 150,000 in Tenochtitlán alone, including the emperor, and Peru in the 1530s, aiding the European conquerors. Measles killed a further two million Mexican natives in the 17th century. In 1618–1619, smallpox wiped out 90% of the Massachusetts Bay Native Americans. During the 1770s, smallpox killed at least 30% of the Pacific Northwest Native Americans. Smallpox epidemics in 1780–1782 and 1837–1838 brought devastation and drastic depopulation among the Plains Indians. Some believe that the death of up to 95% of the Native American population of the New World was caused by Old World diseases such as smallpox, measles, and influenza. Over the centuries, the Europeans had developed high degrees of immunity to these diseases, while the indigenous peoples had no such immunity.\n\nSmallpox devastated the native population of Australia, killing around 50% of Indigenous Australians in the early years of British colonisation. It also killed many New Zealand Māori. As late as 1848–49, as many as 40,000 out of 150,000 Hawaiians are estimated to have died of measles, whooping cough and influenza. Introduced diseases, notably smallpox, nearly wiped out the native population of Easter Island. In 1875, measles killed over 40,000 Fijians, approximately one-third of the population. The disease devastated the Andamanese population. Ainu population decreased drastically in the 19th century, due in large part\nto infectious diseases brought by Japanese settlers pouring into Hokkaido.\n\nResearchers concluded that syphilis was carried from the New World to Europe after Columbus' voyages. The findings suggested Europeans could have carried the nonvenereal tropical bacteria home, where the organisms may have mutated into a more deadly form in the different conditions of Europe. The disease was more frequently fatal than it is today. Syphilis was a major killer in Europe during the Renaissance. Between 1602 and 1796, the Dutch East India Company sent almost a million Europeans to work in Asia. Ultimately, only less than one-third made their way back to Europe. The majority died of diseases. Disease killed more British soldiers in India than war.\n\nAs early as 1803, the Spanish Crown organized a mission (the Balmis expedition) to transport the smallpox vaccine to the Spanish colonies, and establish mass vaccination programs there. By 1832, the federal government of the United States established a smallpox vaccination program for Native Americans. From the beginning of the 20th century onwards, the elimination or control of disease in tropical countries became a driving force for all colonial powers. The sleeping sickness epidemic in Africa was arrested due to mobile teams systematically screening millions of people at risk. In the 20th century, the world saw the biggest increase in its population in human history due to lessening of the mortality rate in many countries due to medical advances. The world population has grown from 1.6 billion in 1900 to an estimated 7 billion today.\n\nSince it became widespread in the 19th century, cholera has killed tens of millions of people.\n\n. Influenza A (H3N2) viruses still circulate today.\n\nTyphus is sometimes called \"camp fever\" because of its pattern of flaring up in times of strife. (It is also known as \"gaol fever\" and \"ship fever\", for its habits of spreading wildly in cramped quarters, such as jails and ships.) Emerging during the Crusades, it had its first impact in Europe in 1489, in Spain. During fighting between the Christian Spaniards and the Muslims in Granada, the Spanish lost 3,000 to war casualties, and 20,000 to typhus. In 1528, the French lost 18,000 troops in Italy, and lost supremacy in Italy to the Spanish. In 1542, 30,000 soldiers died of typhus while fighting the Ottomans in the Balkans.\n\nDuring the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648), about 8 million Germans were killed by bubonic plague and typhus. The disease also played a major role in the destruction of Napoleon's \"Grande Armée\" in Russia in 1812. During the retreat from Moscow, more French military personnel died of typhus than were killed by the Russians. Of the 450,000 soldiers who crossed the Neman on 25 June 1812, fewer than 40,000 returned. More military personnel were killed from 1500–1914 by typhus than from military action. In early 1813, Napoleon raised a new army of 500,000 to replace his Russian losses. In the campaign of that year, over 219,000 of Napoleon's soldiers died of typhus. Typhus played a major factor in the Irish Potato Famine. During World War I, typhus epidemics killed over 150,000 in Serbia. There were about 25 million infections and 3 million deaths from epidemic typhus\nin Russia from 1918 to 1922. Typhus also killed numerous prisoners in the Nazi concentration camps and Soviet prisoner of war camps during World War II. More than 3.5 million Soviet POWs died out of the 5.7 million in Nazi custody.\n\nSmallpox was a contagious disease caused by the variola virus. The disease killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans per year during the closing years of the 18th century. During the 20th century, it is estimated that smallpox was responsible for 300–500 million deaths. As recently as the early 1950s, an estimated 50 million cases of smallpox occurred in the world each year. After successful vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in December 1979. To this day, smallpox is the only human infectious disease to have been completely eradicated, and one of two infectious viruses ever to be eradicated.\n\nHistorically, measles was prevalent throughout the world, as it is highly contagious. According to the U.S. National Immunization Program, 90% of people were infected with measles by age 15. Before the vaccine was introduced in 1963, there were an estimated 3–4 million\ncases in the U.S. each year. Measles killed around 200 million people worldwide over the last 150 years. In 2000 alone, measles killed some 777,000 worldwide out of 40 million cases globally.\n\nMeasles is an endemic disease, meaning that it has been continually present in a community, and many people develop resistance. In populations that have not been exposed to measles, exposure to a new disease can be devastating. In 1529, a measles outbreak in Cuba killed two-thirds of the natives who had previously survived smallpox. The disease had ravaged Mexico, Central America, and the Inca civilization.\n\nOne-third of the world's current population has been infected with \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\", and new infections occur at a rate of one per second. About 5–10% of these latent infections will eventually progress to active disease, which, if left untreated, kills more than half of its victims. Annually, 8 million people become ill with tuberculosis, and 2 million people die from the disease worldwide. In the 19th century, tuberculosis killed an estimated one-quarter of the adult population of Europe; by 1918, one in six deaths in France were still caused by tuberculosis. During the 20th century, tuberculosis killed approximately 100 million people. TB is still one of the most important health problems in the developing world.\n\nLeprosy, also known as Hansen's disease, is caused by a bacillus, \"Mycobacterium leprae\". It is a chronic disease with an incubation period of up to five years. Since 1985, 15 million people worldwide have been cured of leprosy.\n\nHistorically, leprosy has affected people since at least 600 BC. Leprosy outbreaks began to occur in Western Europe around 1000 AD. Numerous \"leprosaria\", or leper hospitals, sprang up in the Middle Ages; Matthew Paris estimated that in the early 13th century, there were 19,000 of them across Europe.\n\nMalaria is widespread in tropical and subtropical regions, including parts of the Americas, Asia, and Africa. Each year, there are approximately 350–500 million cases of malaria. Drug resistance poses a growing problem in the treatment of malaria in the 21st century, since resistance is now common against all classes of antimalarial drugs, except for the artemisinins.\n\nMalaria was once common in most of Europe and North America, where it is now for all purposes non-existent. Malaria may have contributed to the decline of the Roman Empire. The disease became known as \"Roman fever\". \"Plasmodium falciparum\" became a real threat to colonists and indigenous people alike when it was introduced into the Americas along with the slave trade. Malaria devastated the Jamestown colony and regularly ravaged the South and Midwest of the United States. By 1830, it had reached the Pacific Northwest. During the American Civil War, there were over 1.2 million cases of malaria among\nsoldiers of both sides. The southern U.S. continued to be afflicted with millions of cases of malaria into the 1930s.\n\nYellow fever has been a source of several devastating epidemics. Cities as far north as New York, Philadelphia, and Boston were hit with epidemics. In 1793, one of the largest yellow fever epidemics in U.S. history killed as many as\n5,000 people in Philadelphia—roughly 10% of the population. About half of the residents had fled the city, including President George Washington. In colonial times, West Africa became known as \"the white man's grave\" because of malaria and yellow fever.\n\nViral hemorrhagic fevers such as Ebola virus disease, Lassa fever virus, Rift Valley fever, Marburg virus and Bolivian hemorrhagic fever are highly contagious and deadly diseases, with the theoretical potential to become pandemics. Their ability to spread efficiently enough to cause a pandemic is limited, however, as transmission of these viruses requires close contact with the infected vector, and the vector only has a short time before death or serious illness. Furthermore, the short time between a vector becoming infectious and the onset of symptoms allows medical professionals to quickly quarantine vectors, and prevent them from carrying the pathogen elsewhere. Genetic mutations could occur, which could elevate their potential for causing widespread harm; thus close observation by contagious disease specialists is merited.\n\nAntibiotic-resistant microorganisms, sometimes referred to as \"superbugs\", may contribute to the re-emergence of diseases which are currently well controlled. For example, cases of tuberculosis that are resistant to traditionally effective treatments remain a cause of great concern to health professionals. Every year, nearly half a million new cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) are estimated to occur worldwide. China and India have the highest rate of multidrug-resistant TB. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that approximately 50 million people worldwide are infected with MDR TB, with 79 percent of those cases resistant to three or more antibiotics. In 2005, 124 cases of MDR TB were reported in the United States. Extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR TB) was identified in Africa in 2006, and subsequently discovered to exist in 49 countries, including the United States. There are about 40,000 new cases of XDR-TB per year, the WHO estimates.\n\nIn the past 20 years, common bacteria including \"Staphylococcus aureus\", \"Serratia marcescens\" and Enterococcus, have developed resistance to various antibiotics such as vancomycin, as well as whole classes of antibiotics, such as the aminoglycosides and cephalosporins. Antibiotic-resistant organisms have become an important cause of healthcare-associated (nosocomial) infections (HAI). In addition, infections caused by community-acquired strains of methicillin-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\" (MRSA) in otherwise healthy individuals have become more frequent in recent years. \n\nIn 2003 the Italian physician Carlo Urbani (1956–2003) was the first to identify severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) as a new and dangerously contagious disease, although he became infected and died. It is caused by a coronavirus dubbed SARS-CoV. Rapid action by national and international health authorities such as the World Health Organization helped to slow transmission and eventually broke the chain of transmission, which ended the localized epidemics before they could become a pandemic. However, the disease has not been eradicated. It could re-emerge. This warrants monitoring and reporting of suspicious cases of atypical pneumonia.\n\nWild aquatic birds are the natural hosts for a range of influenza A viruses. Occasionally, viruses are transmitted from these species to other species, and may then cause outbreaks in domestic poultry or, rarely, in humans.\n\nIn February 2004, avian influenza virus was detected in birds in Vietnam, increasing fears of the emergence of new variant strains. It is feared that if the avian influenza virus combines with a human influenza virus (in a bird or a human), the new subtype created could be both highly contagious and highly lethal in humans. Such a subtype could cause a global influenza pandemic, similar to the Spanish Flu, or the lower mortality pandemics such as the Asian Flu and the Hong Kong Flu.\n\nFrom October 2004 to February 2005, some 3,700 test kits of the 1957 Asian Flu virus were accidentally spread around the world from a lab in the US.\n\nIn May 2005, scientists urgently called upon nations to prepare for a global influenza pandemic that could strike as much as 20% of the world's population.\n\nIn October 2005, cases of the avian flu (the deadly strain H5N1) were identified in Turkey. EU Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou said: \"We have received now confirmation that the virus found in Turkey is an avian flu H5N1 virus. There is a direct relationship with viruses found in Russia, Mongolia and China.\" Cases of bird flu were also identified shortly thereafter in Romania, and then Greece. Possible cases of the virus have also been found in Croatia, Bulgaria and the United Kingdom.\n\nBy November 2007, numerous confirmed cases of the H5N1 strain had been identified across Europe. However, by the end of October, only 59 people had died as a result of H5N1, which was atypical of previous influenza pandemics.\n\nAvian flu cannot yet be categorized as a \"pandemic\", because the virus cannot yet cause sustained and efficient human-to-human transmission. Cases so far are recognized to have been transmitted from bird to human, but as of December 2006, there have been very few (if any) cases of proven human-to-human transmission. Regular influenza viruses establish infection by attaching to receptors in the throat and lungs, but the avian influenza virus can only attach to receptors located deep in the lungs of humans, requiring close, prolonged contact with infected patients, and thus limiting person-to-person transmission.\n\nAn outbreak of Zika virus began in 2015 and strongly intensified throughout the start of 2016, with over 1.5 million cases across more than a dozen countries in the Americas. The World Health Organisation warned that Zika had the potential to become an explosive global pandemic if the outbreak was not controlled.\n\nIn 2016, the Commission on a Global Health Risk Framework for the Future estimated that pandemic disease events would cost the global economy over $6 trillion in the 21st century - over $60 billion per year. The same report also recommended spending $4.5 billion annually on global prevention and response capabilities to reduce the threat posed by pandemic events.\n\nIn 1346, the bodies of Mongol warriors who had died of plague were thrown over the walls of the besieged Crimean city of Kaffa (now Theodosia). After a protracted siege, during which the Mongol army under Jani Beg was suffering the disease, they catapulted the infected corpses over the city walls to infect the inhabitants. It has been speculated that this operation may have been responsible for the arrival of the Black Death in Europe.\n\nThe Native American population was devastated after contact with the Old World by introduction of many fatal diseases. In a well documented case of germ warfare involving British commander Jeffery Amherst and Swiss-British officer Colonel Henry Bouquet, their correspondence included a proposal and agreement to give smallpox-infected blankets to Indians in order to \"Extirpate this Execrable Race\". During the siege of Fort Pitt late in the French and Indian War, as recorded in his journal by sundries trader and militia Captain, William Trent, on June 24, 1763, dignitaries from the Delaware tribe met with Fort Pitt officials, warned them of \"great numbers of Indians\" coming to attack the fort, and pleaded with them to leave the fort while there was still time. The commander of the fort refused to abandon the fort. Instead, the British gave as gifts two blankets, one silk handkerchief and one linen from the smallpox hospital to two Delaware Indian dignitaries. A devastating smallpox epidemic plagued Native American tribes in the Ohio Valley and Great Lakes area through 1763 and 1764, but the effectiveness of individual instances of biological warfare remains unknown. After extensive review of surviving documentary evidence, historian Francis Jennings concluded the attempt at biological warfare was \"unquestionably effective at Fort Pitt\"; Smallpox after Pontiac's Rebellion killed 400,000–500,000 (possibly even up to 1.5 million) Native Americans.\n\nDuring the Sino-Japanese War (1937–1945), Unit 731 of the Imperial Japanese Army conducted human experimentation on thousands, mostly Chinese. In military campaigns, the Japanese army used biological weapons on Chinese soldiers and civilians. Plague fleas, infected clothing, and infected supplies encased in bombs were dropped on various targets. The resulting cholera, anthrax, and plague were estimated to have killed around 400,000 Chinese civilians.\n\nDiseases considered for or known to be used as a weapon include anthrax, ebola, Marburg virus, plague, cholera, typhus, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, tularemia, brucellosis, Q fever, machupo, Coccidioides mycosis, Glanders, Melioidosis, Shigella, Psittacosis, Japanese B encephalitis, Rift Valley fever, yellow fever, and smallpox.\n\nSpores of weaponized anthrax were accidentally released from a military facility near the Soviet closed city of Sverdlovsk in 1979. The Sverdlovsk anthrax leak is sometimes called \"biological Chernobyl\". In January 2009, an Al-Qaeda training camp in Algeria was reportedly wiped out by the plague, killing approximately 40 Islamic extremists. Some experts said that the group was developing biological weapons, however, a couple of days later the Algerian Health Ministry flatly denied this rumour stating \"No case of plague of any type has been recorded in any region of\nAlgeria since 2003\".\n\nPandemics appear in multiple fiction works. A common use is in disaster films, where the protagonists must avoid the effects of the plague, for example zombies.\n\nLiterature\n\nFilm\n\nTelevision\n\nGames\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "9635102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9635102", "title": "Piccadilly Theatre (Beirut)", "text": "Piccadilly Theatre (Beirut)\n\nThe Piccadilly Theatre in Rue Hamra, Beirut was a major venue for concerts, musicals and plays in Lebanon during the 1960s and the 1970s.\nThough it had a small number of seats (nearly 700), the Piccadilly was considered as a VIP theatre in Lebanon, and the Middle-east.\nThe theatre closed down in the mid 1980s, soon after the beginning of the Lebanese civil war which lasted from 1975 until 1990. It was run by the Mamiche & Itani company. \nAmong the important artists who performed there:\n\nLebanese diva Fairuz (where she performed 9 of her musicals from 1967 until 1978), and the French diva Dalida (where she performed 4 concerts in it from 1971 until 1975).\n\nCurrently, the theatre is undertaking works of restoration and renovation for its reopening.\n"}
{"id": "36731040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36731040", "title": "Pinkerton Lecture", "text": "Pinkerton Lecture\n\nThe Pinkerton lecture series is held by the Institution of Engineering and Technology in commemoration and honour of John Pinkerton, the pivotal engineer who was involved with designing the UK's first business computer in 1951. The first lecture was held in 2000 and the event has taken place every year since then.\n\n"}
{"id": "39070144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39070144", "title": "The Low Road (play)", "text": "The Low Road (play)\n\nThe Low Road is a 2013 play by the American playwright Bruce Norris. It premiered from 23 March to 11 May 2013 at the Royal Court Theatre in London, in a production directed by Dominic Cooke (his final production as Artistic Director of that theatre) and with a cast including Bill Paterson, Johnny Flynn, Kobna-Holdbrook Smith, Simon Paisley Day, Elizabeth Berrington, Ian Gelder, Ellie Kendrick and John Ramm.\n\nThe play focuses on the economic theories of Adam Smith, who acts as the narrator, first by showing us an 18th-century story in which Jim Trumpett, a young American of illegitimate birth and raised in a brothel, stumbles upon Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\" and becomes a convert to the new theories of capitalism, and then showing us, through a contemporary scene featuring a G8 summit, that our thinking hasn't changed at all. Theater critic Paul Taylor claims that the play was motivated by the 2008 financial crisis and the failure of the banking community to change their behaviors.\n\n"}
{"id": "9040377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9040377", "title": "The Toyota Way", "text": "The Toyota Way\n\nThe Toyota Way is a set of principles and behaviors that underlie the Toyota Motor Corporation's managerial approach and production system. Toyota first summed up its philosophy, values and manufacturing ideals in 2001, calling it \"The Toyota Way 2001\". It consists of principles in two key areas: continuous improvement, and respect for people.\n\nThe Toyota Way has been called \"a system designed to provide the tools for people to continually improve their work\" The 14 principles of The Toyota Way are organized in four sections: \nThe two focal points of the principles are continuous improvement and respect for people. The principles for a continuous improvement include establishing a long-term vision, working on challenges, continual innovation, and going to the source of the issue or problem. The principles relating to respect for people include ways of building respect and teamwork.\n\nThe system can be summarized in 14 principles. The principles are set out and briefly described below:\n\nPrinciple 1\nPeople need purpose to find motivation and establish goals.\n\nPrinciple 2\n\nWork processes are redesigned to eliminate waste (muda) through the process of continuous improvement — kaizen. The seven types of muda are:\n\nPrinciple 3\n\nA method where a process signals its predecessor that more material is needed. The pull system produces only the required material after the subsequent operation signals a need for it. This process is necessary to reduce overproduction.\n\nPrinciple 4\n\nThis helps achieve the goal of minimizing waste (muda), not overburdening people or the equipment (muri), and not creating uneven production levels (mura).\n\nPrinciple 5\n\nQuality takes precedence (Jidoka). Any employee in the Toyota Production System has the authority to stop the process to signal a quality issue.\n\nPrinciple 6\n\nAlthough Toyota has a bureaucratic system, the way that it is implemented allows for continuous improvement (kaizen) from the people affected by that system. It empowers the employee to aid in the growth and improvement of the company.\n\nPrinciple 7\n\nIncluded in this principle is the 5S Program - steps that are used to make all work spaces efficient and productive, help people share work stations, reduce time looking for needed tools and improve the work environment.\n\n\nPrinciple 8\n\nTechnology is pulled by manufacturing, not pushed to manufacturing.\n\nPrinciple 9\n\nWithout constant attention, the principles will fade. The principles have to be ingrained, it must be the way one thinks. Employees must be educated and trained: they have to maintain a learning organization.\n\nPrinciple 10\n\nTeams should consist of 4-5 people and numerous management tiers. Success is based on the team, not the individual.\n\nPrinciple 11\n\nToyota treats suppliers much like they treat their employees, challenging them to do better and helping them to achieve it. Toyota provides cross functional teams to help suppliers discover and fix problems so that they can become a stronger, better supplier.\n\nPrinciple 12\n\nToyota managers are expected to \"go-and-see\" operations. Without experiencing the situation firsthand, managers will not have an understanding of how it can be improved. Furthermore, managers use Tadashi Yamashima's (President, Toyota Technical Center (TTC)) ten management principles as a guideline:\n\n\nPrinciple 13\n\nThe following are decision parameters:\n\nPrinciple 14\n\nThe process of becoming a learning organization involves criticizing every aspect of what one does. The general problem solving technique to determine the root cause of a problem includes:\n\nIn 2004, Dr. Jeffrey Liker, a University of Michigan professor of industrial engineering, published \"The Toyota Way\". In his book Liker calls the Toyota Way \"a system designed to provide the tools for people to continually improve their work.\" \nAccording to Liker, the 14 principles of The Toyota Way are organized in four sections: (1) long-term philosophy, (2) the right process will produce the right results, (3) add value to the organization by developing your people, and (4) continuously solving root problems drives organizational learning.\n\nThe first principle involves managing with a long-view rather than for short-term gain. It reflects a belief that people need purpose to find motivation and establish goals.\n\nThe next seven principles are focused on process with an eye towards quality outcome. Following these principles, work processes are redesigned to eliminate waste (muda) through the process of continuous improvement — kaizen. The seven types of muda are (1) overproduction; (2) waiting, time on hand; (3) unnecessary transport or conveyance; (4) overprocessing or incorrect processing; (5) excess inventory; (6) motion; and (7) defects.\n\nThe principles in this section empower employees in spite of the bureaucratic processes of Toyota, as any employee in the Toyota Production System has the authority to stop production to signal a quality issue, emphasizing that quality takes precedence (Jidoka). The way the Toyota bureaucratic system is implemented to allow for continuous improvement (kaizen) from the people affected by that system so that any employee may aid in the growth and improvement of the company.\n\nRecognition of the value of employees is also part of the principle of measured production rate (heijunka), as a level workload helps avoid overburdening people and equipment (muri), but this is also intended to minimize waste (muda) and avoid uneven production levels (mura).\n\nThese principles are also designed to ensure that only essential materials are employed (to avoid overproduction), that the work environment is maintained efficiently (the 5S Program) to help people share work stations and to reduce time looking for needed tools, and that the technology used is reliable and thoroughly tested.\n\nHuman development is the focus of principles 9 through 11. Principle 9 emphasizes the need to ensure that leaders embrace and promote the corporate philosophy. This reflects, according to Liker, a belief that the principles have to be ingrained in employees to survive. The 10th principle emphasizes the need of individuals and work teams to embrace the company's philosophy, with teams of 4-5 people who are judged in success by their team achievements, rather than their individual efforts. Principle 11 looks to business partners, who are treated by Toyota much like they treat their employees. Toyota challenges them to do better and helps them to achieve it, providing cross functional teams to help suppliers discover and fix problems so that they can become a stronger, better supplier.\n\nThe final principles embrace a philosophy of problem solving that emphasizes thorough understanding, consensus-based solutions swiftly implemented and continual reflection (hansei) and improvement (kaizen). The 12th principle (Genchi Genbutsu) sets out the expectation that managers will personally evaluate operations so that they have a firsthand understanding of situations and problems. Principle 13 encourages thorough consideration of possible solutions through a consensus process, with rapid implementation of decisions once reached (nemawashi). The final principle requires that Toyota be a \"learning organization\", continually reflecting on its practices and striving for improvement. According to Liker, the process of becoming a learning organization involves criticizing every aspect of what one does.\n\nThere is a question of uptake of the principles now that Toyota has production operations in many different countries around the world. As a \"New York Times\" article notes, while the corporate culture may have been easily disseminated by word of mouth when Toyota manufacturing was only in Japan, with worldwide production, many different cultures must be taken into account. Concepts such as \"mutual ownership of problems\", or \"genchi genbutsu\", (solving problems at the source instead of behind desks), and the \"kaizen mind\", (an unending sense of crisis behind the company’s constant drive to improve), may be unfamiliar to North Americans and people of other cultures. A recent increase in vehicle recalls may be due, in part, to \"a failure by Toyota to spread its obsession for craftsmanship among its growing ranks of overseas factory workers and managers.\" Toyota is attempting to address these needs by establishing training institutes in the United States and in Thailand.\n\nToyota Way has been driven so deeply into the psyche of employees at all levels that it has morphed from a strategy into an important element of the company's culture. According to Masaki Saruta, author of several books on Toyota, \"the real Toyota Way is a culture of control.\" The Toyota Way rewards intense company loyalty that at the same time invariably reduces the voice of those who challenge authority. \"The Toyota Way of constructive criticism to reach a better way of doing things 'is not always received in good spirit at home.'\" The Toyota Way management approach at the automaker \"worked until it didn't.\"\n\nOne consequence was when Toyota was given reports of sudden acceleration in its vehicles and the company faced a potential recall situation. There were questions if Toyota's crisis was caused by the company losing sight of its own principles. The Toyota Way in this case did not address the problem and provide direction on what the automaker would be doing, but managers instead protected the company and issued flat-out denials and placed the blame at others. The consequence of the automaker's actions led to the 2009–11 Toyota vehicle recalls. Although one of the Toyota Way principles is to \"build a culture of stopping to fix problems to get quality right the first time,\" Akio Toyoda, President and CEO, stated during Congressional hearings that the reason for the problems was that his \"company grew too fast.\" Toyota management had determined its goal was to become the world's largest automotive manufacturer. According to some management consultants, when the pursuit of growth took priority, the automaker \"lost sight of the key values that gave it its reputation in the first place.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "475884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=475884", "title": "Traditional Chinese holidays", "text": "Traditional Chinese holidays\n\nThe traditional Chinese holidays are an essential part of harvests or prayer offerings. The most important Chinese holiday is the Chinese New Year (Spring Festival), which is also celebrated in Taiwan and overseas ethnic Chinese communities. All traditional holidays are scheduled according to the Chinese calendar (except the Qing Ming and Winter Solstice days, falling on the respective \"Jie qi\" in the Agricultural calendar).\n\nTraditional holidays are generally celebrated in Chinese speaking regions. For the most part however, only Chinese New Year, Qingming Festival, the Dragon Boat Festival and Mid-Autumn Festival are statutory public holidays. This is the case in both mainland China and Taiwan whilst Hong Kong and Macau also observe Buddha's Birthday and Chung Yeung Festival. In Singapore, Chinese New Year is the only traditional Chinese public holiday likewise with Malaysia\n\nEach region has its own holidays on top of this condensed traditional Chinese set. Mainland China and Taiwan observe patriotic holidays, Hong Kong and Macau observe Christian holidays, and Malaysia and Singapore celebrate Malay and Indian festivals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27970381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27970381", "title": "Transformative social change", "text": "Transformative social change\n\nTransformative social change is a philosophical, practical and strategic process to affect revolutionary change within society, i.e., social transformation. It is effectively a systems approach applied to broad-based social change and social justice efforts to catalyze sociocultural, socioeconomic and political revolution. In seeking to integrate and then politicize personal development and social development as an overarching approach to social change at multiple levels, addressing a wide range of issues, using holistic, nonviolent methods, it may be best classified as a new social movement. Rather than focus on particular issue(s), it seeks to impact the culture of left of center social movement and organizing work. However, by considering the dismantling of and liberation from oppressive systems, including economic, as core to its goal, it defies even definitions put forth for new social movements. As a comprehensive approach to progressive social change, it seeks distinguishes to itself from the \"ordinary\" change of conventional social change, social justice and their respective organizing practices by placing emphasis on personal, organizational and social systemic change that cannot be undone, or \"deep change\".\n\nA key premise defining transformative social change is that \"the ends of justice can never be served by the means of injustice, even when the injustice is as subtle as the mental framework instilled by the quest for liberation.(\"Change vs. Transformation\" by Angel Kyodo Williams) Williams further proposes that \"because suffering cannot be alleviated by instigating suffering\"; the conditions under which social justice activists and seekers operate within organizationally need to exemplify the conditions they wish to ultimately see cultivated within society at large. This ideal coincides with the quote often attributed to but not said by Gandhi, \"You must be the change you wish to see in the world.\"\n\nSeeking to better define and cohere the emerging and evolving work of transformative social change, a People's Movement Assembly process was held at the 2010 US Social Forum in Detroit, Michigan, in which the following framework for defining transformation was agreed to by way of resolution:\n\n~Transformation, as applied to social change, is a process through which who we are – individually or collectively – is changed so deeply that the following are altered:\n\nFurther, the work of transformation requires the following components:\n\n~ Transformation can and does consist of multi-disciplinary practices, modalities and paths, but overall it points toward the centrality of consistent, rigorous practice capable of undoing conditioning. Such a practice must effect systemic changes, internal and external. We refer to the broad spectrum of varied modalities as transformative practices.\n\n~ Transformation happens in its own time and it can’t be undone. We expect processes of transformation, as distinct from change, to be inclined towards being irreversible.\n\n~ In the transformation process, one identity or self passes away and a new, radically altered one emerges. The new way of being is more integrated, resourceful and aligned. This is apparent to others in your presence, your actions and your increased capacity to respond based on vision, rather than reaction. This process repeats itself and deepens through continued engagement in transformative practices and processes. The old, previous “form” sheds again and new emerges again.\n\n~ The methods and philosophy of transformation must be rooted in an explicit analysis of oppression.\n\n~ We recognize that this work is grounded in ancient wisdom, lineages and history, and that it is entering a new phase of coherence that allows us to move forward.\n\nApplied transformation leads to the following outcomes:\n\nIn 2009, the Seasons Fund for Social Transformation, a funding collaborative of representatives from small to large foundations, including W. W. Kellogg Foundation, Ford Foundation, Hidden Leaf Fund, Fetzer Institute, Jewish Funds for Justice, Seeds of Justice, Unitarian Universalist Veatch Program and small family funds held an inaugural Transformative Leadership Awards and awarded six collaborative teams $30,000 and two finalists $5,000 for their work in the field.\n\nTransformative social change is influenced by the work of social movements led by individuals that are viewed as attending to both their personal or spiritual development as well as systemic social issues because of the \"realization that action is not enough\":\n\nIn 2002, scholars Raymond Allen Morrow and Carlos Alberto Torres used the phrase \"transformative social change\" as part of the subtitle in their book \"Reading Freire and Habermas: Critical Pedagogy and Transformative Social Change\" as a term to convey the intersection between Paulo Freire's critical pedagogy and Jürgen Habermas' critical social theory, and the implications those convergences have for educational practice. However, the term is never specifically defined in the book, nor is any distinct theory set \n\nThe phrase is being applied as a social change field and movement in which developing inner awareness and nurturing one's inner life, i.e., personal development, is seen as essential in effective social justice work. This is taken to mean from an aligned, sustainable, and nonviolent place. It seeks to operationalize, in practical terms, the ideal of embodiment of the future desired state, in other words, to actualize Gandhi's exhortation to \"be the change.\"\n\nWhile transformative social change has evolved to include secular practices with no specific spiritual ties, its emphasis on collective liberation shares history, principles and proponents with spiritual activism and liberation spirituality. Likewise, it shares principles of transformative learning and transformative justice, Examples of \"transformative practice\" include: yoga, meditation, centering prayer, tai chi, forward stance and types of somatic practices.\n\nTransformative community organizing is being taught in university courses, in fields such as social work, community health, sociology, and other service learning classes. Scholars such as Loretta Pyles have offered a transformative organizing framework, grounded in feminist social change work, and affirming a practice of collective and self-inquiry based on meditative traditions and social movement practices, such as popular education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4096680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4096680", "title": "Tunnel washer", "text": "Tunnel washer\n\nA tunnel washer, also called a continuous batch washer, is an industrial washing machine designed specifically to handle heavy loads of laundry.\n\nThe screw is made of perforated metal, so items can progress through the washer in one direction, while water and washing chemicals move through in the opposite direction. Thus, the linen moves through pockets of progressively cleaner water and fresher chemicals. Soiled linen can be continuously fed into one end of the tunnel while clean linen emerges from the other.\n\nOriginally, one of the machine's major drawbacks was the necessity of using one wash formula for all items. Modern computerized tunnel washers can monitor and adjust the chemical levels in individual pockets, effectively overcoming this problem.\n\n"}
