{"id": "4567536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4567536", "title": "509th Composite Group", "text": "509th Composite Group\n\nThe 509th Composite Group (509 CG) was a unit of the United States Army Air Forces created during World War II and tasked with the operational deployment of nuclear weapons. It conducted the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan, in August 1945.\n\nThe group was activated on 17 December 1944 at Wendover Army Air Field, Utah. It was commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Paul W. Tibbets. Because it contained flying squadrons equipped with Boeing B-29 Superfortress bombers, C-47 Skytrain, and C-54 Skymaster transport aircraft, the group was designated as a \"composite\", rather than a \"bombardment\" formation. It operated Silverplate B-29s, which were specially configured to enable them to carry nuclear weapons.\n\nThe 509th Composite Group began deploying to North Field on Tinian, Northern Mariana Islands, in May 1945. In addition to the two nuclear bombing raids, it carried out 15 practice missions against Japanese-held islands, and 12 combat missions against targets in Japan dropping high-explosive pumpkin bombs.\n\nIn the postwar era, the 509th Composite Group was one of the original ten bombardment groups assigned to Strategic Air Command on 21 March 1946 and the only one equipped with \"Silverplate\" B-29 Superfortress aircraft capable of delivering atomic bombs. It was standardized as a bombardment group and redesignated the 509th Bombardment Group, Very Heavy, on 10 July 1946.\n\nThe 509th Composite Group was constituted on 9 December 1944, and activated on 17 December 1944, at Wendover Army Air Field, Utah. It was commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Paul W. Tibbets, who received promotion to full colonel in January 1945. It was initially assumed that the group would divide in two, with half going to Europe and half to the Pacific. In the first week of September Tibbets was assigned to organize a combat group to develop the means of delivering an atomic weapon by airplane against targets in Germany and Japan, then command it in combat. Because the organization developed by Tibbets was self-sustained, with flying squadrons of both Boeing B-29 Superfortress bombers and transport aircraft, the group was designated as a \"composite\" rather than a \"bombardment\" unit.\n\nOn 8 September, working with Major General Leslie R. Groves, Jr.'s Manhattan Project, Tibbets selected Wendover for his training base over Great Bend Army Air Field, Kansas, and Mountain Home Army Airfield, Idaho, because of its remoteness. On 14 September 1944, the 393d Bombardment Squadron arrived at Wendover from its former base at Fairmont Army Air Base, Nebraska, where it had been in operational training (OTU) with the 504th Bombardment Group since 12 March. When its parent group deployed to the Marianas in early November 1944, the squadron was assigned directly to the Second Air Force until creation of the 509th Composite Group. Originally consisting of twenty-one crews, fifteen were selected to continue training, and were organized into three flights of five crews, lettered A, B, and C. The 393d Bombardment Squadron was commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Thomas J. Classen, who like Tibbets had combat experience in heavy bombers, commanding a Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress with the 11th Bombardment Group.\n\nThe 393d Bombardment Squadron conducted ground school training only until delivery of three modified \"Silverplate\" airplanes in mid-October 1944 allowed resumption of flight training. These aircraft had extensive bomb bay modifications and a \"weaponeer\" station installed. Initial training operations identified numerous other modifications necessary to the mission, particularly in reducing the overall weight of the airplane to offset the heavy loads it would be required to carry. Five more \"Silverplate\"s were delivered in November and six in December, giving the group 14 for its training operations. In January and February 1945, 10 of the 15 crews under the command of the Group S-3 (operations officer) were assigned temporary duty at Batista Field, San Antonio de los Baños, Cuba, where they trained in long-range over-water navigation.\nThe 320th Troop Carrier Squadron, the other flying unit of the 509th, came into being because of the highly secret work of the group. The organization that was to become the 509th required its own transports for the movement of both personnel and materiel, resulting in creation of an ad hoc unit nicknamed \"The Green Hornet Line\". Crews for this unit were acquired from the five 393d crews not selected to continue B-29 training. All those qualified for positions with the 320th chose to remain with the 509th rather than be assigned to a replacement pool of the Second Air Force. They began using C-46 Commando and C-47 Skytrains already at Wendover, and in November 1944 acquired three C-54 Skymasters. The 320th Troop Carrier Squadron originally consisted of three C-54 and four C-47 aircraft. In April 1945 the C-47s were transferred to the 216th Army Air Forces Base Unit and two additional C-54s acquired. The 320th Troop Carrier Squadron was constituted and activated on the same dates as the group.\n\nOther support units were activated at Wendover from personnel already present and working with Project Alberta or in the 216th Army Air Forces Base Unit, both affiliated with the Manhattan project. Project Alberta was the part of the Manhattan Project at Site Y in Los Alamos, New Mexico responsible for the preparation and delivery of the nuclear weapons. It was commanded by U.S. Navy Captain William S. Parsons, who would accompany the Hiroshima mission as weaponeer. On 6 March 1945, concurrent with the activation of Project Alberta, the 1st Ordnance Squadron, Special (Aviation) was activated at Wendover, again using Army Air Forces personnel on hand or already at Los Alamos. Its purpose was to provide \"skilled machinists, welders and munitions workers\" and special equipment to the group to enable it to assemble atomic weapons at its operating base, thereby allowing the weapons to be transported more safely in their component parts. A rigorous candidate selection process was used to recruit personnel, reportedly with an 80% \"washout\" rate. Not until May 1945 did the 509th Composite Group reach full strength.\nThe 390th Air Service Group was created as the command echelon for the 603rd Air Engineering Squadron, the 1027th Air Material Squadron, and its own Headquarters and Base Services Squadron, but when these units became independent operationally, it acted as the basic support unit for the entire 509th Composite Group in providing quarters, rations, medical care, postal service and other functions. The 603rd Air Engineering Squadron was unique in that it provided depot-level B-29 maintenance in the field, obviating the necessity of sending aircraft back to the United States for major repairs. On Tinian the 603rd Air Engineering Squadron was assigned to the 313th Bombardment Wing's \"C\" and \"D\" Service Centers, where it performed provided depot-level (\"third echelon\") maintenance for the entire 313th Bombardment Wing when it was not engaged in 509th activities. The 393d Bombardment Squadron's maintenance section was re-organized as a \"combat line maintenance\" section (also called PLM, or \"production line maintenance,\" a technique developed by the Air Transport Command in India for \"Hump\" aircraft) to maximize use of personnel for first and second echelon maintenance.\n\nWith the addition of the 1st Ordnance Squadron to its roster, the 509th Composite Group had an authorized strength of 225 officers and 1,542 enlisted men, almost all of whom deployed to Tinian. The 320th Troop Carrier Squadron kept its base of operations at Wendover. In addition to its authorized strength, the 509th had attached to it on Tinian 51 civilian and military personnel of Project Alberta, and two representatives from Washington, D.C., the deputy director of the Manhattan Project, Brigadier General Thomas Farrell, and Rear Admiral William R. Purnell of the Military Policy Committee.\nTwo anecdotes illustrate the level of security affecting the 509th's personnel and equipment. En route to Tinian on 4 June 1945, the B-29 that became \"The Great Artiste\" made an intermediate stop at Mather Field, near Sacramento, California. The commanding general of the base allegedly attempted to enter the aircraft to inspect it and was warned by a plane guard who aimed his carbine at the general's chest that he could not do so. A similar incident occurred to a Project Alberta courier, 2nd Lieutenant William A. King. King was escorting the plutonium core of the Fat Man implosion bomb to Tinian, strapped to the floor of one of the 509th's C-54s. On 26 July 1945 it made a refueling stop at Hickam Field, Hawaii. The commander of a combat unit returning to the United States learned that the Skymaster had only one passenger and attempted to enter the C-54 to requisition it as transport for his men. He was prevented from doing so by King, who aimed a .45 caliber automatic pistol at the colonel.\n\nThe 509th transferred four of its 14 training \"Silverplate\" B-29s to the 216th AAF Base Unit in February 1945. In April the third modification increment of \"Silverplate\"s, which would be their combat aircraft, began coming off the Martin-Omaha assembly line. These \"fly-away\" aircraft were equipped with fuel-injected engines, Curtiss Electric reversible-pitch propellers, pneumatic actuators for rapid opening and closing of bomb bay doors and other improvements. The remaining 17 \"Silverplate\" B-29s were placed in storage. Each bombardier completed at least 50 practice drops of inert pumpkin bombs before Tibbets declared his group combat-ready.\n\nThe ground support echelon of the 509th Composite Group, consisting of 44 officers and 815 enlisted men commanded by Major George W. Westcott of the Headquarters Squadron, received movement orders and moved by rail on 26 April 1945 to its port of embarkation at Seattle, Washington. On 6 May the support elements sailed on the \"SS Cape Victory\" for the Marianas, while group materiel was shipped on the SS \"Emile Berliner\". The \"Cape Victory\" made brief port calls at Honolulu and Eniwetok but the passengers were not permitted to leave the dock area. An advance party of the air echelon, consisting of 29 officers and 61 enlisted men commanded by Group Intelligence Officer (S-2) Lieutenant Colonel Hazen Payette, flew by C-54 to North Field, Tinian, between 15 and 22 May. It was joined by the ground echelon on 29 May 1945, marking the group's official change of station. Project Alberta's \"Destination Team\" also sent most of its members to Tinian to supervise the assembly, loading, and dropping of the bombs under the administrative title of 1st Technical Services Detachment, Miscellaneous War Department Group.\n\nThe air echelon consisted of the members of the 393d Bombardment Squadron. The 320th Troop Carrier Squadron remained at Wendover. It began deploying from Wendover 4 June 1945, with the first B-29 arriving at North Field on 11 June. The group was assigned to the 313th Bombardment Wing, whose four groups had been flying missions against Japan since mid-February, but for security reasons their permanent base area was near the runways on the island's north tip, several miles away from the main installations in the center of Tinian. The 509th, after spending most of June in an area previously occupied by the Seabees of the 18th Naval Construction Battalion, took over the 13th Naval Construction Battalion Area just west of North Field's Runway D, a self-contained base with 89 Quonset huts, a huge storage warehouse, a consolidated mess hall, chapel, administrative area, theater, and other amenities.\n\nEach crew was required to attend the 313th Bombardment Wing's week-long \"Lead Crew Ground School\" on its arrival. The ground school indoctrinated combat crews in procedures regarding air-sea rescue, ditching and bailouts, survival, radar bombing, weather, wing and air force regulations, emergency procedures, camera operation, dinghy drills, and other topics related to combat operations. Two of the group's bombers were not delivered by Martin-Omaha until early July. They remained at Wendover until 27 July to act as transports for two of the Fat Man assemblies.\n\nBecause of their geographical isolation from the combat crews of other groups, rigidly enforced security measures, and exclusion from participation in regular bombing missions, crews of the 393d Bombardment Squadron were resented and ridiculed as \"lacking in discipline\" and having a \"soft life\". The official history of the Army Air Forces characterized the ridicule as \"epitomized in a satirical verse entitled \"Nobody Knows\", with a recurring refrain, 'For the 509th is winning the war.'\"\n\nThe group was assigned tail markings of a circle outline (denoting the 313th Wing) around an arrowhead pointing forward, but at the beginning of August its B-29s were repainted with the tail markings of other XXI Bomber Command groups as a security measure, because it was feared that Japanese survivors on Tinian were reporting the 509th's activities to Tokyo by clandestine radio. The Victor (identification assigned by the squadron) numbers previously assigned the 393d aircraft were changed to avoid confusion with B-29s of the groups from whom the tail identifiers were borrowed. Victor numbers 82, 89, 90, and 91 (including the \"Enola Gay\") carried the markings of the 6th Bombardment Group (Circle R); Victors 71, 72, 73, and 84 those of the 497th Bombardment Group (large \"A\"); Victors 77, 85, 86, and 88 those of the 444th Bombardment Group (triangle N); and Victors 83, 94, and 95 those of the 39th Bombardment Group (square P).\n\nAlthough all of the B-29s were named as shown, the only nose art applied to the aircraft before the atomic bomb missions was that of \"Enola Gay\". With the exceptions of Victors 71 and 94, the others were applied some time in August 1945. \"Luke the Spook\" was not named until November 1945, and it is not known if nose art was ever applied to \"Jabit III\".\n\nAfter ground training for the combat crews, the 509th began operations on 30 June 1945, with a calibration flight involving nine of the B-29s on hand. During the month of July and the first eight days of August the thirteen bombers of the 393d Bombardment Squadron flew an intensive training and mission rehearsal program that consisted of:\n\nWhile this training was taking place, the components of the first two atomic bombs were shipped to Tinian by various means. For the uranium bomb code-named \"Little Boy\", fissile components consisted of a cylindrical target and nine washer-like rings that made up the hollow cylinder projectile. When the bomb detonated, these would be brought together to create a cylindrical core. The uranium-235 projectile and bomb pre-assemblies (partly assembled bombs without the fissile components) left Hunters Point Naval Shipyard, California, on 16 July aboard the cruiser , arriving 26 July. The Little Boy pre-assemblies were designated L-1, L-2, L-3, L-4, L-5, L-6, L-7 and L-11. L-1, L-2, L-5 and L-6 were expended in test drops. L-6 was used in the Iwo Jima dress rehearsal on 29 July. This was repeated on 31 July, but this time L-6 was test dropped near Tinian by \"Enola Gay\". L-11 was the assembly used for the Hiroshima bomb. On 26 July three C-54s of the 320th Troop Carrier Squadron left Kirtland Army Air Field, each with three of the uranium-235 target rings, and landed at North Field on 28 July.\n\nThe components for the bomb code-named the Fat Man arrived by air the same day. The bomb's plutonium core (encased in its insertion capsule) and the beryllium-polonium initiator were transported from Kirtland to Tinian by C-54 in the custody of Project Alberta couriers. Three Fat Man high explosive pre-assemblies designated F31, F32, and F33 were picked up at Kirtland on 28 July by three B-29s, two from the 509th and one from the 216th AAF Base Unit, and transported to North Field, arriving 2 August. The B-29s were \"Luke the Spook\" and \"Laggin' Dragon\" of the 509th, and 42-65386, a phase 3 \"Silverplate\" of the 216th AAF Base Unit. F33 was expended during the final rehearsal on 8 August, and F31 was the bomb dropped on Nagasaki. F32 presumably would have been used for a third attack or its rehearsal.\n\nThe final item of preparation for the operation came on 29 July 1945. Orders for the attack were issued to General Carl Spaatz on 25 July under the signature of General Thomas T. Handy, the acting Chief of Staff of the United States Army, since General of the Army George C. Marshall was at the Potsdam Conference with the President. The order designated four targets: Hiroshima, Kokura, Niigata, and Nagasaki, and ordered the attack to be made \"as soon as weather will permit after about 3 August.\"\n\nThe mission profile for both atomic missions called for weather scouts to precede the strike force by an hour, reporting weather conditions in code over each proposed target. The strike force consisted of a bombing aircraft, with the aircraft commander responsible for all decisions in reaching the target and the bomb commander (weaponeer) responsible for all decisions regarding dropping of the bomb; a blast instrumentation aircraft which would fly the wing of the strike aircraft and drop instruments by parachute into the target area; and a camera ship, which would also carry scientific observers. Each mission had an additional \"spare\" aircraft pre-positioned on Iwo Jima to take over carrying the bomb if the strike aircraft encountered mechanical problems. The six combat crews of the Hiroshima mission were briefed on their targets, operational flight data, and the effects of the bomb on 4 August 1945. Their pre-mission briefing on 5 August, under the terms of Operations Order No. 35, covered details on weather and air-sea rescue. The Order described the bomb to be used as \"special\".\n\nSpecial Mission 13, attacking Hiroshima, was flown as planned and executed without significant problems or diversion from plan. \"Enola Gay\" took off at 02:45, overweight and near maximum gross weight. Arming of the bomb began eight minutes into the flight and took 25 minutes. The three target-area aircraft arrived over Iwo Jima approximately three hours into the mission and departed together at 06:07. The safeties on the bomb were removed at 07:30, 90 minutes before time over target, and 15 minutes later the B-29s began a climb to the bombing altitude. The bomb run began at 09:12, with the drop three minutes later, after which the B-29s immediately performed steep diving turns. The detonation followed 45.5 seconds after the drop. Primary and \"echo\" shock waves overtook the B-29s a minute following the blast, and the smoke cloud was visible to the crews for 90 minutes, by which time they were almost away. \"Enola Gay\" returned to Tinian at 14:58.\n\nSpecial Mission 16 was moved up two days from 11 August because of adverse weather forecasts. Weather also dictated a change in rendezvous to Yakushima, much closer to the target, and an initial cruise altitude of instead of , both of which considerably increased fuel consumption. Pre-flight inspection discovered an inoperative fuel transfer pump in the aft bomb bay fuel tank, but a decision was made to continue anyway. The plutonium bomb did not require arming in flight, but did have its safeties removed 30 minutes after the 03:45 takeoff (all times Tinian; Nagasaki times were one hour earlier) when \"Bockscar\" reached of altitude. When the daylight rendezvous point was reached at 09:10, the photo plane failed to appear. The weather planes reported both targets within the required visual attack parameters while \"Bockscar\" circled Yakushima waiting for the photo plane. Finally the mission proceeded without the photo plane, thirty minutes behind schedule. When \"Bockscar\" arrived at Kokura 30 minutes later, cloud cover had increased to 70% of the area, and three bomb runs over the next 50 minutes were fruitless in bombing visually. The commanders decided to reduce power to conserve fuel and divert to Nagasaki, bombing by radar if necessary. The bomb run began at 11:58. (two hours behind schedule) using radar; but the Fat Man was dropped visually when a hole opened in the clouds at 12:01. The photo plane arrived at Nagasaki in time to complete its mission, and the three aircraft diverted to Okinawa, where they arrived at 13:00. Trying in vain for 20 minutes to contact the control tower at Yontan Airfield to obtain landing clearance, \"Bockscar\" nearly ran out of fuel.\n\nWhile the Nagasaki mission was in progress, two B-29s of the 509th took off from Tinian to return to Wendover. The crews of Classen in the unnamed Victor 94, and Captain John A. Wilson in \"Jabit III\", together with ground support crews, were sent back to the United States to stage for the possibility of transporting further bomb pre-assemblies to Tinian. Groves expected to have another atomic bomb ready for shipment on 13 August and use on 19 August, with three more available in September and a further three in October. Groves ordered that all shipments of material be stopped on 13 August, when the third bomb was still at Site Y.\n\nAfter each atomic mission the group conducted other combat operations, making a series of pumpkin bomb attacks on 8 and 14 August. Six B-29s visually attacked targets at Yokkaichi, Uwajima, Tsuruga, and Tokushima on 8 August, bombing two primary and three secondary targets with five bombs. Seven aircraft visually attacked Koroma and Nagoya on 14 August. \"Some Punkins\" (Crew B-7, Price) is believed to have dropped the last bombs by the Twentieth Air Force in World War II. After the announcement of the Japanese surrender, the 509th Composite Group flew three further training missions involving 31 sorties on 18, 20 and 22 August, then stood down from operations. The group made a total of 210 operational sorties from 30 June to 22 August, aborted four additional flights, and had only a single aircraft fail to take off. Altogether, 140 sorties involved the dropping of live ordnance. Some 60 flights were credited as combat missions: 49 pumpkin bomb and 11 atomic bomb sorties.\n\nThree B-29s (\"Full House\", \"Straight Flush\", and \"Top Secret\") flew six combat missions each. Crews A-1 (Taylor) and C-11 (Eatherly) flew the most combat missions, six (including one atomic mission) each, while six other crews each flew five. Only the late arrivals (A-2 [Costello] and C-12 [Zahn]) did not participate in any combat missions, although Costello's B-29 was used by another crew for weather reconnaissance of Nagasaki on the second mission. Including training and test flights, crews B-8 (McKnight) and C-13 (Bock) flew the most missions, with 20 total (5 combat). Crew B-7 (Price) is the only crew to fly all of its missions (18 total, 5 combat) in its normally assigned aircraft, \"Some Punkins\".\n\nThe 509th Composite Group returned to the United States on 6 November 1945, and was stationed at Roswell Army Airfield, New Mexico. Colonel William H. Blanchard replaced Tibbets as group commander on 22 January 1946, and also became the first commander of the 509th Bombardment Wing. It was one of the original ten bombardment groups assigned to Strategic Air Command when it was formed on 21 March 1946. The 715th and 830th Bombardment Squadrons were assigned to the 509th on 6 May 1946, and the group was redesignated the 509th Bombardment Group, Very Heavy on 10 July. The 320th Troop Carrier Squadron was inactivated on 19 August. At Roswell, the 509th became the nuclear strike and deterrence core of the Strategic Air Command, and was the only unit capable of delivery of nuclear weapons until June 1948, when B-50 Superfortresses were initially deployed. The 509th itself converted to the B-50 in 1950, and transferred its \"Silverplate\" B-29s to the squadrons of the 97th Bombardment Wing at Biggs Air Force Base, Texas.\n\n¹\n¹²\n\nThe training and operations of the 509th Composite Group were dramatized in a Hollywood film, \"Above and Beyond\" (1952), with Robert Taylor cast in the role of Tibbets. The story was retold in a partly fictionalized made-for-television film \"Enola Gay: The Men, the Mission, the Atomic Bomb\" (1980), with Patrick Duffy portraying Tibbets. The operations of the 509th Composite Group were treated to a lesser extent in the docudrama \"The Beginning or the End\" (1947), with Barry Nelson as Tibbets.\n\n\n\nDepartment of the Air Force Special Order GB-294, dated 2 September 1999, awarded the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award (with Valor) to the 509th Composite Group for outstanding achievement in combat for the period 1 July 1945 to 14 August 1945.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25505343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25505343", "title": "Amédée Gosselin", "text": "Amédée Gosselin\n\nAmédée Gosselin (September 30, 1863 – December 20, 1941) was a Canadian historian, academic administrator and Roman Catholic priest.\n\nBorn in Saint-Charles-de-Bellechasse, Canada East, he studied the classical course and theology from 1878 until 1890 at the Petit Séminaire de Québec and the Grand Séminaire de Québec, and was subsequently ordained as a priest.\n\nHe taught Canadian history and rhetoric. His principal work was \"L'Instruction au Canada sous le Régime français\", which won him the Verret Prize. He was the seminary's archivist, and became superior of the institution and rector of Université Laval from 1909 until 1915 and from 1927 until 1929.\n\nHe was an organizer of the Congrès de la langue française and a member of the Société du parler français. He often published articles in the Bulletin des recherches historiques, a historical journal. On December 20, 1941, he died in Quebec City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4170870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4170870", "title": "Andrew R. Heinze", "text": "Andrew R. Heinze\n\nAndrew R. Heinze (born 19 January 1955) is an American playwright, non-fiction author, and scholar of American history. Growing up in New Jersey in a close-knit Jewish family, he left home at fourteen to attend Blair Academy, graduated from Amherst College in Massachusetts, and moved to California. He did his graduate work at the University of California, Berkeley, training in American History, with an emphasis on the history of race, immigration and the history of American Jews. During his academic career he taught both American and Jewish history at several American universities and was a tenured professor of History at the University of San Francisco, where he was director of the Swig Judaic Studies Program, holding the Mae and Benjamin Swig Chair and creating several new programs including an Ulpan and a Judaic studies lecture series.\n\nHe has written extensively about the American Jewish social, intellectual and cultural experience, and is the author of \"Adapting to Abundance\" (1990), the first full-length study of the impact of American consumer culture on an immigrant group, as well as \"Jews and the American Soul\" (2004), which hypothesizes that Jewish intellectuals provided a framework that came to shape the American psyche. He co-authored two books that deal with race and ethnicity, and he has contributed to a wide variety of scholarly journals as well as to popular newspapers, periodicals and online publications. His books and articles have been widely reviewed, praised in the scholarly community, and cited extensively.\n\nIn 2006, feeling creatively stifled by the confines of academic writing, he left his tenured full professorship at USF and moved to New York City to begin playwriting. He has written one-act as well as full-length plays, many of them focusing on the historical and Jewish themes that had absorbed him in his former career; these include a comedy about Moses and his family, a drama about a New York Jewish family adjusting to life after World War II, and a drama about an Israeli Russian immigrant who, in desperation, has turned to prostitution. His plays have been produced Off-Broadway in New York City and around the United States; several have won awards in national playwriting competitions.\n\nAndrew R. Heinze was born on January 19, 1955 into a close-knit Jewish family in Passaic, New Jersey. His paternal grandmother (also born in Passaic) was one of eight children born to a self-made Polish Jew who had supplied coal to the city of Passaic. Heinze memorialized his grandmother in an article he wrote for \"The Jewish Daily Forward\" shortly after she died at the age of 101; he described her as a flamboyant, stylish, and impeccably dressed woman, and he recalled that after his grandfather (her husband of 60 years) had died, she \"kept on going, honestly confessing her loneliness but unflaggingly maintaining her enthusiasm for life and for us.\" He quoted her as frequently giving him the reminder, \"We are 100% Americans, dear, always remember that!\" Heinze has a close relationship with his parents; in his acknowledgements of his second book, he wrote, \"I have been blessed with extraordinarily devoted parents who enabled me, as a child, to feel at home in the world.\" His mother, he said, is a woman of \"gentle disposition, sensitivity to human qualities that others overlook, vivacious imagination, love of art, and whimsical sense of humor,\" and his father he described as a man of \"great loyalty, heartfelt devotion, and frequent praise [that] helped me set my sights high and pick myself up when fallen low.\"\n\nAt age fourteen Heinze won a scholarship to Blair Academy, a private boarding school in Warren County, New Jersey. His experience at Blair was formative. It was there that he first discovered a fascination with both writing and history. In a 2005 interview, he recalled that he had relished the mental stimulation his Blair teachers had given him, that they took his intellectual growth very seriously, and that he still recalled distinct lectures from many of his classes. He honed his writing skills working for Blair's school newspaper; he started as a reporter doing local news and human interest stories and ended up as the paper's editor-in-chief. Graduating from Blair in 1973, he won a Bodman Foundation scholarship which enabled him to attend Amherst College, where he received his BA in 1977, graduating Magna Cum Laude. After graduating from Amherst, he left the East Coast, moved to California, and attended graduate school at the University of California, Berkeley where he received his MA (1980) and his PhD (1987) in American History.\n\nHeinze's first professorship was at San Jose State University, where he taught United States History and won San Jose State University's Meritorious Performance and Professional Promise Award for 1988-1989. He later taught United States History at the University of California, Davis and the University of California, Berkeley before becoming a tenured Full Professor at the University of San Francisco, where he taught American History from 1994 to 2006. He won the University of San Francisco's Ignatian Faculty Service Award in 2003.\n\nHeinze specialized in the history of race and immigration in the United States, the evolution of American consumer culture, and the interaction between psychology and religion in American history. He researched and taught extensively on both African-Americans and Jews in the United States, and he maintained strong interests in relations between Christianity and Judaism, religion and homosexuality, racism and antisemitism.\n\nIn 1997 Heinze, who was faculty adviser to USF's Jewish Student Union, was appointed to be the Mae and Benjamin Swig Chair in the Swig Judaic Studies Program and to direct the program. The Swig program was established in 1977 and is believed to have been the first such program established in a Catholic university.) Heinze's first act as director was to invite Jan Karski, a man he had long admired, to speak at the program's upcoming 20th anniversary dinner. Karski, renowned for his active role in the Polish resistance movement in World War II, delivered the keynote address before an audience that included former Secretary of State, George Shultz.\n\nTo solidify the Swig Program's academic standing, Heinze created a Jewish Studies Certificate program and expanded the curriculum beyond the theology department by introducing courses in Hebrew, Jewish history, The Holocaust, Jewish American literature, and Yiddish culture. Free public lectures and programs were made available to the general public, and in 1998 he created Ulpan San Francisco, an intense Israeli-style Hebrew immersion program that was scheduled during the summer and served anyone living in the San Francisco Bay area; it was the first such program to be offered there and is still a part of that community.\n\nIn 1998 Heinze inaugurated The Swig Annual Lecture Series (1998-2005) which brought distinguished scholars to the university; the lectures were presented free to the general public and were published and distributed to universities, public libraries, and individual scholars in the United States and abroad. Heinze hand-picked the topics as well as the participating lecturers, bringing public attention to a range of often controversial subjects that were of special interest to him. Two of the lectures garnered particularly strong public interest: one dealt with relations between Catholicism and Judaism (the speakers were Cardinal Edward Cassidy, president of the Pontifical Commission for Religious Relations with the Jews, and renowned British rabbi, Rabbi Norman Solomon). The other lecture focused on homosexuality. Heinze had wanted to discover if there was a way \"gay and lesbian Jews and Christians [might] find a more comfortable place within their faith-communities.\" (He had wanted to include Muslim speakers but was unable to find anyone.) The lecture was presented in the form of a symposium and was entitled \"New Jewish and Christian Approaches to Homosexuality.\" Even in the liberal community of San Francisco, it sparked heated debate because established religion did not normally deal explicitly with the issue.\n\nHeinze's first book, \"Adapting to Abundance: Jewish Immigrants, Mass Consumption, and the Search for American Identity\", was published in 1990. It was the first full-length study of the impact of American consumer culture on an immigrant group. Hasia Diner, Professor of History at New York University, said about Heinze: “Historians of immigration and Jewish history will be indebted to him for opening up whole areas of behavior which they previously shrugged off as irrelevant.” The Journal of Consumer Affairs remarked upon the variety of topics that the book explored: the rise of ad campaigns for major American products in the foreign-language press; the rise of the summer vacation among working people; installment-buying as a way for working families to obtain expensive furnishings such as pianos; the role of Jewish women as agents of assimilation through their control over family purchases; and the way that American abundance altered religious rituals, especially holidays such as Chanukah and Passover. \"Adapting to Abundance\" established Heinze's reputation as part of a scholarly vanguard that produced the first histories of mass consumption in Europe and America. It is widely referenced in books, articles and syllabi around the world.\n\nIn 2004 Heinze published \"Jews and the American Soul: Human Nature in the Twentieth Century\". David Hollinger, Professor of History at the University of California, Berkeley said, \"\"Jews and the American Soul\" is the most forthright, probing, nuanced, and carefully documented book yet addressed to the ways in which modern American culture has been influenced by Jews. A truly distinctive work of American history.\" Jon Butler, Professor of American Studies, History, and Religious Studies at Yale University, said about the book, \"Heinze explains how Jewish intellectuals uncovered and explicated the marrow of American identity even as, or precisely because, they sought to secure their place in an America that did not always want them. Heinze uplifts an unexpected, enlightening story with insight, grace, and not infrequent irony--a simply fascinating read.\" It was named one of the \"Best Books of 2004\" by Publishers Weekly, was runner up in the 2005 National Jewish Book Award in the American Jewish History category, and was a Jewish Book Council Finalist for the 2004 Weinberg Judaic Studies Institute Book Award, University of Scranton.\n\nHeinze was one of nine authors who contributed to \"The Columbia Documentary History of Race and Ethnicity in America\" (Columbia University Press), and to the abridged \"Race and Ethnicity in America: A Concise History.\" The \"Columbia Documentary History\" was praised as a \"massive collection of primary-source documents dealing with 'the other' in America... [including]... an extensive introductory essay by a leading historian in the field.\"\n\nHis scholarly articles have appeared in a wide variety of journals including, Journal of American History, Judaism. American Quarterly, Religion and American Culture, American Jewish History, Journal of the West, American Jewish Archives, and Reviews in American History.\n\nHeinze's essays and opinion pieces have been widely published in newspapers, journals, periodicals and online publications. His opinion pieces are occasionally political, sometimes historical, but most focus on timely issues involving race, immigration or religion. His essays, in contrast, are often cultural critiques of popular books, television shows or movies. Sometimes his essays explore his own family or his personal life; sometimes they are serious, but often they are light-hearted or comic.\n\nHeinze's opinion pieces rarely focus on politics, but in 2002 on the History News Network, he faulted George W. Bush for giving \"a businessman's response\" to questions about corporate greed. He suggested that Theodore Roosevelt (one of his favorite historical figures) would have spoken differently. \"Theodore Roosevelt,\" Heinze said, \"never thought or spoke like a businessman. On the contrary,\" he pointed out, \"he placed military men, statesmen and even scholars – but not businessmen – at the top of his hierarchy of values... Selfishness, especially materialistic selfishness, offended him as a profound moral dereliction.\"\n\nHeinze has often written about antisemitism, but his concerns have usually focused on countries other than the United States. \"One of the reasons Jews have traditionally viewed America as a promised land is the comparative absence of violence against them,\" he said. In 1999, however, Buford Furrow and the Los Angeles Jewish Community Center shooting got his attention, and he wrote an opinion piece about it for the \"San Francisco Examiner\". \"Standing at the end of the decade, the century and the millennium,\" he wrote, \"I think we must agree with Buford Furrow about one thing. The attack on a Jewish day care center in Los Angeles is a wake-up call.\"\nHeinze has written a number of opinion pieces that have focused on the relations between Catholics and Jews. It was logical that he would be interested in the subject because he was a Jew who worked in a Catholic university, he was faculty advisor for the school's Jewish Student Union, and he was director of the school's Jewish Studies program. There was another, more personal, reason for his interest, however; in 1997 he had met Jan Karski, the courageous Polish Catholic who was recognized in 1982 as Righteous Among the Nations for his efforts to help the Jews in World War II. (Karski had said in 1981, \"just as my wife’s entire family was wiped out in the ghettos of Poland, in its concentration camps and crematoria — so have all the Jews who were slaughtered become my family. But I am a Christian Jew... I am a practicing Catholic... My faith tells me the second original sin has been committed by humanity. This sin will haunt humanity to the end of time. And I want it to be so.”) After Karski delivered the keynote address at the first Swig function Heinze had presided over, he had spent some personal time with Heinze and his family; Heinze never forgot Karski's gentle warmth, his integrity and his courage.\n\nIn 1998 Heinze wrote an opinion piece for the \"Examiner\", \"The Vatican Repents Catholic Anti-Semitism;\" it focused on the long-awaited and newly released document, \"\", published by Cardinal Edward Cassidy, President of the Pontifical Commission for Religious Relations with the Jews. The document had caused heated controversy; many critics argued that it didn't go far enough in taking responsibility for the past. Heinze's \"Examiner\" article opened with the story of Bernard Lichtenberg, a Catholic priest who was arrested in 1941 by the Berlin Gestapo because he had publicly prayed for the Jews; after his arrest, Lichtenberg asked to be sent away with the Jews so that he could pray for their welfare. He spent the next two years in a Nazi prison camp and died on his way to Dachau. After telling the story of Father Lichtenberg, Heinze gave his opinion of the \"We Remember\" document. He agreed with the critics that \"The Catholic Church must reckon with historical fact, proving its awareness of sin in high places.\" \"But,\" he added, \"the rest of us must encourage the message of repentance and renewal the church is preaching to its followers because, in the end, that is what produces people such as Bernard Lichtenberg.\" It was an opinion piece that encouraged reconciliation, not anger. Two years later Heinze invited Cardinal Cassidy to San Francisco to participate in a Swig lecture on interfaith understanding. Cardinal Cassidy accepted the invitation.\n\nIn his Jewish Daily Forward essay, \"Breaking the Mold of the Sitcom,\" Heinze analyzes his favorite TV comedy, \"Seinfeld\", casting an affectionate eye on the show's creators, Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David, and marveling at their success in probing \"the many gestures, innuendoes and gaps in the messages we send each other every day in every type of situation. Those, they know, contain the real meanings that pass back and forth beneath the surface of our conventions. Those are the explosives littering the minefield that is life in society.\" Heinze is stunned that the show is able to pack so much original comedy into twenty-two minutes of airtime, and he has little sympathy for people who dismiss the show as being shallow or neurotically self-focused: \"People with little sense of humor have failed, time and again, to understand that the notorious self-centeredness of the show’s characters enables us to laugh at the selfish, neurotic traits we all share but prefer to disguise.\" \nIn another Jewish Daily Forward essay, \"Life Among the Goyim,\" Heinze looks at the British comedian, Sacha Baron Cohen, and his TV comedy, Da Ali G Show, whose title character is a parody of a \"white wannabe-gangsta rapper who not only adopts all the appropriate clothes, gestures and locutions but also convinces himself that he is black.\" In his essay, Heinze points out that Baron Cohen is a Jew who speaks Hebrew and keeps kosher; and his undergraduate history thesis at Cambridge University was on black-Jewish relations. Yet, Heinze wonders, is there anything about his comedy that is specifically Jewish? For Heinze, the answer is yes, and he arrives at the \"yes\" in the following whimsical way: \"If we take 'goyim' loosely to mean people who are strange, often affable, and potentially dangerous, then, yes, 'Da Ali G Show' is Jewish comedy and we, in our digital phantasmagoria of a world, are all goyim, all on camera, all the time.\"\n\n\"A Lost Chapter From the Life of Oz\" (also in \"The Jewish Daily Forward\") explores Amos Oz's 2005 memoir, \"A Tale of Love and Darkness\". Heinze (who speaks Hebrew) noticed that the English translation was missing a chapter (chapter five). His essay is built on that discovery, and it seems the missing chapter was extracted (presumably by the editors) because it was a rant against \"bad readers.\" It was thought, apparently, that chapter five would interrupt the flow of the book, or otherwise \"put-off\" the English-speaking audience. As to the actual information in chapter five: Oz believes that \"bad readers\" are intrusive; they are inquisitive about the author's life; they ask very personal questions; they pry; they make his life hell; they behave like the people on TMZ. Oz equates \"the bad reader\" with “a psychopathic lover.” Heinze was fascinated by the missing chapter and by Oz's assessment of things, and he approached the memoir (and its missing chapter) from an interesting slant, comparing it to the memoir \"Hunger of Memory\" by Richard Rodriguez, whose editors also tried (unsuccessfully) to get him to take out certain controversial passages from his book.\n\nIn a 2005 interview, Heinze spoke of the creative frustration that led him to leave academia. \"Even though I was doing a lot of academic writing,\" he said, \"I had this ceaseless, nagging feeling that I wasn't fulfilling myself creatively... I finally took the plunge into a real fiction project... [and] it became clear to me that creative rather than scholarly writing was my real métier.\" He chose playwriting, in particular, because of Joe Orton; the intensity, intelligence and dark humor of Orton's plays had fascinated him. In 2006 he left his tenured Full Professorship at USF, moved to New York City, and embarked on a career in playwriting. \nHis first full-length play, \"Turtles All the Way Down,\" although unproduced, was praised by the Soho Theatre in London as \"an accomplished first effort...sharp and highly enjoyable... very theatrical: fast moving with lots of humour.\" His next play, \"The Invention of the Living Room\", started as a one-act play; it was produced in 2009 by HB Studio in Manhattan's West Village, and it had a second production at the Metropolitan Playhouse in the East Village. \nThe play focused on a Lower East Side Jewish family, struggling in the aftermath of World War II. Heinze expanded it into a full-length version that won a place in the Harriet Lake Festival of New Plays at the Orlando Shakespeare Theater in 2011. In 2012 it was a Finalist for the Blue Ink Playwriting Award given by the American Blues Theater in Chicago, and in 2014 it won the Texas NonProfit Theatres' New Play Project, with a World Premiere at the Tyler Civic Theatre.\n\nHe wrote \"Hamilton\", a tragedy about Alexander Hamilton, in 2012; it was a semi-finalist for the 2012 National Playwrights Conference at the Eugene O'Neill Theatre and a Finalist for the T. Schreiber Studio’s 2012 New Works Festival. His dark comedy \"Please Lock Me Away\" was a Finalist at the Kitchen Dog Theater (Dallas) 2014 New Play competition. \"Moses, The Author\", a comedy about the biblical Moses, \"shows the 120-year-old lawgiver on his last day on earth as he races to finish the Torah\" Heinze said the play \"is a 'midrash' that imagines how Moses might have dealt with the series of crushing setbacks that faced him, from having a speech defect to being told that could not enter the Promised Land.\" \"Moses, The Author\" had a World Premiere at the New York International Fringe Festival in 2014, won a place in the Harriet Lake Festival of New Plays at the Orlando Shakespeare Theater (2014), and had an extended run at the SoHo Playhouse in Manhattan.\n\nHeinze has written a number of one-act plays and believes the short-play format can teach a writer \"the basics of dramatic structure.\" His short plays have been produced across the United States and have won numerous awards. In 2010 his one-act comedy, \"The FQ\", won \"Audience Favorite\" at the New York City Fifteen-Minute Play Festival, and at the same festival, the following year, his short comedy, \"The Bar Mitzvah of Jesus Goldfarb,\" won \"Judges' Choice\" and \"Audience Choice for Best Play.\" \"The FQ\" was published in \"The Best Ten-Minute Plays 2011\", by Smith & Kraus. His one-act drama \"Masha: Conditions in the Holy Land\" won the Jury Prize for Best Script at the Fusion Theatre Company's 2012 Short Play Festival (Albuquerque, New Mexico), and in 2013 it was produced for the 38th Annual Samuel French Off-Off-Broadway Short Play Festival in New York City.\n\nAsked by Samuel French, Inc. if he could name the playwright who had most influenced him, Heinze said, \"If I were darker, it would be Orton. If I were more laconic, it would be Pinter. If I were more lyrically erudite, it would be Stoppard. If I had ten additional brains, it would be Shakespeare. Hm. Everyone seems to be English. If I were more Irish, it would be Beckett. (And if I had more \"savoir faire\", it would be Molière.)\" He added, \"I think all my sources of inspiration are unconventional. It's the feeling of something unconventional that makes me want to write the play. At least for a full-length play that’s true. I think I wouldn't want to invest the time if I didn’t have that feeling.\"\n\nHe is a co-author of the following books:\n\nHis scholarly articles have appeared in a wide variety of scholarly journals including, Journal of American History, Judaism. American Quarterly, Religion and American Culture, American Jewish History, Journal of the West, American Jewish Archives, and Reviews in American History.\n\nHis essays and opinion pieces have been widely published. His work has appeared in various newspapers, journals, periodicals and online publications including \"Chronicle of Higher Education\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The San Francisco Examiner\", \"Taki's Magazine\", \"History News Network\", \"San Francisco Gate\", and \"The Jewish Daily Forward\".\n\n\n\nFootnotes\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "25804565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25804565", "title": "Arvo Viljanti", "text": "Arvo Viljanti\n\nArvo Kunto Viljanti (until 1935 named \"Viklund\", 24 August 1900 in Parainen — 6 July 1974) was a Finnish historian.\n\nViljanti had earned a PhD and from 1962 worked as a professor at the University of Åbo. He was specialized in Swedish–Finnish military history of the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "21384217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21384217", "title": "Association of Moving Image Archivists", "text": "Association of Moving Image Archivists\n\nThe Association of Moving Image Archivists (AMIA) is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization established to advance the field of moving image archiving by fostering cooperation among individuals and organizations concerned with the acquisition, description, preservation, exhibition and use of moving image materials.\n\nSince the late 1960s, representatives from moving image archives have recognized the value of regular meetings to exchange practical information and experiences. Over the years, this group of archivists originally known as the Film and Television Archives Advisory Committee (F/TAAC) expanded from a handful of participants to several hundred archivists from over 100 national, regional and local institutions. In 1990, the name of the group was changed to the Association of Moving Image Archivists. In 1991, AMIA voted to formalize as an individual-based member-based professional association, the only one of its kind in the moving image archival field. Although AMIA's office is based in the US, its membership is now drawn from across the world. Further information on the origins and history of AMIA can be found here.\n\nMembership is open to anyone who has an interest in the preservation of moving images and associated sound recordings: in practice, most of the membership are professional archivists (both public sector and commercial) and people working in associated professions, e.g. librarianship, the film and television industry or academics in related fields. AMIA offers both individual and institutional membership.\n\nAMIA is governed by a Board of Directors, which is elected by the membership on a two-year cycle, and chaired by a president. The Board oversees and ratifies the work of the sub-groups through which the work of the organization is undertaken. The last significant changes to the governing structure were undertaken in 2009, when the present structure of committees and task forces was introduced.\n\n\n\nAMIA is a volunteer based organization and projects rely on work done by its members in Committees and Task Forces. More information about AMIA's Committees can be found here.\n\n\nOne of the principal activities undertaken by AMIA is the annual conference, which takes place each fall at a different city in North America. Recent conferences have occurred in Austin, Texas, Seattle, Washington, Richmond, Virginia, Savannah, Georgia, and Portland, Oregon. For more information see here: http://www.amiaconference.com\n\nDedicated to presenting the latest technologies in audiovisual restoration and preservation. The Reel Thing brings together a unique line up of laboratory technicians, archivists, new media technologists and preservationists. The Reel Thing Technical Symposium is organized and coordinated by Grover Crisp and Michael Friend.\n\nSince 2008, The Reel Thing: Los Angeles has offered two days of presentations and screenings each August. In addition, a half day event is held in conjunction with the AMIA Annual Conference. For more information: http://www.the-reel-thing.org/\n\nDAS offers in-depth, real world information on an ever-advancing technology. Case studies offer a broad mix of institutions, providing a unique opportunity to compare approaches in different communities. This real-life approach brings together content creators, caretakers and vendors to address the realities with which we are all faced, what works in \"theory\", and what works in the real world.\nhttp://www.digitalassetsymposium.com\n\nAMIA's online continuing education series are intended to further education in the archival moving image profession, as well as to provide introduction to these topics to the broader libraries and archives community. http://www.amiaonline.org\n\nAMIA's Festival of the Archives celebrates the work done by media archives in their efforts to preserve history and cultural heritage. The festival offers attendees quality films that highlight preservation and restoration efforts a wide spectrum of archival materials - feature films, documentaries, animation, historical footage, and commercial video. The inaugural festival was held in December, 2012 in conjunction with the SIFF Cinema Uptown in Seattle, Washington.\n\nAMIA operates an E-mail discussion list, known as AMIA-L to facilitate professional communication within the field. Subscription is open to AMIA members and non-members, and is free of charge. Topics that frequently arise in online discussion include news stories and media coverage related to moving image archiving, technical issues, requests for information about specific films or archive footage for re-use in TV productions, copyright and media history in general. The AMIA-L generates approximately 10-15 postings a day. All AMIA-L postings are archived online and available for public access. AMIA also operates a member list-serv to which only its members may subscribe.\n\nDeveloped by AMIA's Access Committee, the DEEP FOCUS portal is an inclusive outreach tool designed to provide academics, archivists, artists, curators, educators, exhibitors, filmmakers, programmers, researchers and students with a user-friendly and centralized means of global discovery – interconnecting a disparate labyrinth of invaluable moving image catalogs, services, resources, websites and related information.\n\nDEEP FOCUS welcomes a diverse range of entries into the directory. If your institution or company collects or works with moving images and/or provides services related to the field, your entry is integral to the success of the portal. You can find DEEP FOCUS here\n\nThe AMIA Newsletter is published electronically four times per year. It provides up-to-date information about the association and its activities, as well as regular columns and features and resources of interest to moving image archivists.\n\n\"The Moving Image\" is a peer-reviewed academic journal that explores topics relevant to both the media archivist and the media scholar. The Moving Image deals with crucial issues surrounding the preservation, archiving, and restoration of film, video, and digital moving images. It is edited by Susan Ohmer and Don Crafton and published by University of Minnesota Press.\n\n\"The AMIA Global Supplier Directory\", is published electronically four times per year and available on the AMIA website. The Supplier Directory is intended as an international resource guide for anyone working with audiovisual media.\n\nThe training of moving image archivists is central to AMIA's role as a professional organization and essential to the long-term survival of our moving image heritage. To this end, in addition to workshops and symposia, AMIA offers annual scholarships for students in education and training programs geared to the profession. In addition, AMIA offers the Image Permanence Institute Internship in Preservation Research, offering a student of merit who is committed to the preservation of moving images the opportunity to acquire practical experience in preservation research.\n\nAMIA supports a number of public and professional programs to promote education and foster cooperation and communication among the individuals and organizations concerned with the acquisition, preservation, description, exhibition, and use of moving image materials.\n\nAs an international organization, AMIA offers two programs to encourage professional exchange and enhance professional development to professional archivists from the developing world. More information can be found here: http://www.amianet.org/programs-and-initiatives/list-of-programs\n\nThe Your Archive Deserves Advocacy! initiative offers three annual awards in an effort focused on promoting the people and stories behind archives as well as providing resources that support advocacy.\n\nCommunity Travel Grants were established to pay tribute to the work of AMIA members, and offer colleagues, friends and families a way to honor contributions to the moving image field. The Fund provides travel funding for the AMIA Annual Conference.\n\nAMIA provides workshops covering a range of archival activities. Workshops are offered primarily in conjunction with the annual conference, but AMIA also offers regional hands-on workshops when possible. Recent workshops have covered: digital programming basics; cataloging & metadata; safeguarding audio visual assets; archival film presentation for projectionists, a writers workshop, access copy production for archivists, copyright, and an annual Hackday! and Community Archiving Workshop.\n\nIn addition to the three key events listed, AMIA organizes a number of special screenings and workshops that celebrate the preservation and restoration work done by archivists worldwide.\n\nAs an NGO (non-governmental organization) AMIA has consultative status with UNESCO and has coordinated on international events and presented at UNESCO events - most recently at the Memory of the World Programme Conference in Vancouver, British Columbia.\n\nIn addition, AMIA is affiliated with, and undertakes joint activities with, a number of organizations and projects worldwide. As the current chair of the Coordinating Council of Audiovisual Archives Association, AMIA works with other international audiovisual archives associations to promote the work done by archivists and to influence the development of public policy on issues of importance to the preservation of our audiovisual heritage.\n\nOn October 27 each year AMIA members participate in and promote the World Day for Audiovisual Heritage. In 2006 at its 33rd session the General Conference of UNESCO declared 27 October as World Day for Audiovisual Heritage. It is a unique occasion to raise awareness of the importance of sounds and images as a source of history of the last 150 years and of the importance of preserving them and making them accessible to whoever is interested in their content.\n\nAMIA participation also includes the following: a founding member of NAANICA (North American Archival Network), a branch of ICA; a founding member of the United States Committee of the Blue Shield, a branch of International Committee of the Blue Shield; representation on the National Film Preservation Board; a member of the Digital Promise coalition; and maintains relationships with more than a dozen organizations with similar missions.\n\nAMIA Awards recognize outstanding professional achievement in and contributions to the field of moving image archiving.\n\n\nAMIA provides travel grants to its annual conference. These travel grants are awarded based on criteria including financial need, as well as how attendance at the conference will contribute to professional development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4685264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4685264", "title": "Autonomism", "text": "Autonomism\n\nAutonomism (also authonomous Marxism or autonomist Marxism) is a set of anti-authoritarian left-wing political and social movements and theories. As a theoretical system, it first emerged in Italy in the 1960s from workerist (\"operaismo\") communism. Later, post-Marxist and anarchist tendencies became significant after influence from the Situationists, the failure of Italian far-left movements in the 1970s, and the emergence of a number of important theorists including Antonio Negri, who had contributed to the 1969 founding of \"Potere Operaio\", as well as Mario Tronti, Paolo Virno and Franco \"Bifo\" Berardi.\n\nGeorgy Katsiaficas summarizes the forms of autonomous movements saying that \"In contrast to the centralized decisions and hierarchical authority structures of modern institutions, autonomous social movements involve people directly in decisions affecting their everyday lives. They seek to expand democracy and to help individuals break free of political structures and behavior patterns imposed from the outside.\" As such this has involved a call for the independence of social movements from political parties in a revolutionary perspective which seeks to create a practical political alternative to both authoritarian socialism and contemporary representative democracy.\n\nAutonomism influenced the German and Dutch \"Autonomen\", the worldwide social centre movement, and today is influential in Italy, France, and to a lesser extent the English-speaking countries. Those who describe themselves as autonomists now vary from Marxists to anarchists.\n\nThe term \"autonomia\"/\"Autonome\" is composed out of two Greek words: αὐτο- \"auto-\" \"self\" and νόμος \"nomos\", \"law\", hence when combined understood to mean \"one who gives oneself one's own law\". , in this sense, is not independence. While independence refers to an autarchic kind of life, separated from the community, autonomy refers to life in society but by one's own rule. Though the notion of \"autonomism\" was alien to the ancient Greeks, the concept is indirectly endorsed by Aristotle, who stated that only beasts or gods could be independent and live apart from the \"polis\" (\"community\"), while Kant defined the Enlightenment by autonomy of thought and the famous \"Sapere aude\" (\"dare to know\").\n\nUnlike other forms of Marxism, autonomist Marxism emphasises the ability of the working class to force changes to the organization of the capitalist system independent of the state, trade unions or political parties. Autonomists are less concerned with party political organization than are other Marxists, focusing instead on self-organized action outside of traditional organizational structures. Autonomist Marxism is thus a \"bottom-up\" theory: it draws attention to activities that autonomists see as everyday working-class resistance to capitalism, such as absenteeism, slow working, socialization in the workplace, sabotage, and other subversive activities.\n\nLike other Marxists, autonomists see class struggle as being of central importance. However, autonomists have a broader definition of the working class than do other Marxists: as well as wage-earning workers (both white collar and blue collar), autonomists also include in this category the unwaged (students, the unemployed, homemakers, etc.), who are traditionally deprived of any form of union representation.\n\nEarly theorists (such as Mario Tronti, Antonio Negri, Sergio Bologna, and Paolo Virno) developed notions of \"immaterial\" and \"social labour\" that extended the Marxist concept of labour to all society. They suggested that modern society's wealth was produced by unaccountable collective work, and that only a little of this was redistributed to the workers in the form of wages. Other Italian autonomists—particularly feminists, such as Mariarosa Dalla Costa and Silvia Federici—emphasised the importance of feminism and the value of unpaid female labour to capitalist society.\n\nA scholar of the movement, Michael Ryan, writes that \n\nAutonomist Marxism—referred to in Italy as \"operaismo\", which translates literally as \"workerism\"—first appeared in Italy in the early 1960s. Arguably, the emergence of early autonomism can be traced to the dissatisfaction of automotive workers in Turin with their union, which reached an agreement with FIAT. The disillusionment of these workers with their organised representation, along with the resultant riots (in particular the 1962 riots by FIAT workers in Turin, \"fatti di Piazza Statuto\"), were critical factors in the development of a theory of self-organised labour representation outside the scope of traditional representatives such as trade unions.\n\nIn 1969, the \"operaismo\" approach was active mainly in two different groups: \"Lotta Continua\", led by Adriano Sofri (which had a very significant Roman Catholic cultural matrix), and \"Potere Operaio\", led by Antonio Negri, Franco Piperno, Oreste Scalzone, and Valerio Morucci. Mario Capanna was the charismatic leader of the Milan student movement, which had a more classical Marxist-Leninist approach.\n\nThrough translations made available by Danilo Montaldi and others, the Italian autonomists drew upon previous activist research in the United States by the Johnson–Forest Tendency and in France by the group Socialisme ou Barbarie. The Johnson-Forest Tendency had studied working-class life and struggles within the US auto industry, publishing pamphlets such as \"The American Worker\" (1947), \"Punching Out\" (1952), and \"Union Committeemen and Wildcat Strikes\" (1955). That work was translated into French by Socialisme ou Barbarie and published, serially, in their journal. They too began investigating and writing about what was going on inside workplaces, in their case inside both auto factories and insurance offices.\n\nThe journal \"Quaderni Rossi\" (\"Red Notebooks\"), produced between 1961 and 1965, and its successor \"Classe Operaia\" (\"Working Class\"), produced between 1963 and 1966, were also influential in the development of early autonomism. Raniero Panzieri, Mario Tronti, and Toni Negri were some primary collaborators.\n\nPirate radio stations also were a factor in spreading autonomist ideas. Bologna's Radio Alice was an example of such a station.\n\nThe Italian student movement, including the Indiani Metropolitani (Metropolitan Indians), starting from 1966 with the murder of student Paolo Rossi by neo-fascists at Rome University, engaged in various direct action operations, including riots and occupations, along with more peaceful activities such as self-reduction, in which individuals refused to pay for such services and goods as public transport, electricity, gas, rent, and food. Several clashes occurred between students and the police during the occupations of universities in the winter of 1967–68, during the Fiat occupations, and in March 1968 in Rome during the Battle of Valle Giulia.\n\nIndiani Metropolitani were a small faction active in the Italian far-left protest movement during 1976 and 1977, in the so-called \"Years of Lead\". The Indiani Metropolitani were the so-called 'creative' wing of the movement. Its adherents wore face-paint like the war-paint of Native Americans and dressed like hippies. The emphasis was on \"stare insieme\" (being together), spontaneity and the arts, especially music. The group was active in Rome, during the occupation of the university La Sapienza in 1977.\n\nOn 11 March 1977, riots took place in Bologna following the killing of student Francesco Lorusso by police.\n\nBeginning in 1979, the state effectively prosecuted the autonomist movement, accusing it of protecting the Red Brigades, which had kidnapped and assassinated Aldo Moro. 12,000 far-left activists were detained; 600 fled the country, including 300 to France and 200 to South America.\n\nTute Bianche was a militant Italian social movement, active from 1994 to 2001. Activists covered their bodies with padding so as to resist the blows of police, to push through police lines, and to march together in large blocks for mutual protection during demonstrations. The tute bianche movement reached its apex during the anti-G8 protests in Genoa, in July 2001, with a turn-out of an estimated 10,000 protesters in a single \"padded block\", ironically after a collective decision to go without the white overalls. Shortly after Genoa the Ya Basta Association disbanded, with certain segments reforming into the \"Disobbedienti\" which literally means \"Disobedients\". This philosophy includes the occupation and creation of squatted self-managed social centers, anti-sexist activism, support for immigrant's rights and refugees seeking political asylum, as well as the process of walking together in large formations during demonstrations held in the streets, by force if necessary in case of clashes with police.\n\nCentral to the tute bianche movement was the Italian Ya Basta Association, a network of groups throughout Italy that was inspired by the Zapatista Army of National Liberation uprising in Chiapas in 1994. Ya Basta primarily originated in the \"autonomist\" social centers of Milan, particularly Centro Sociale Leoncavallo. These social centers grew out of the Italian Autonomia movement of the 1970 and 80s. The tute bianches have had international variations of one sort or another. For instance, in Britain a group calling itself WOMBLES adopted the tactics, even though the political orientation of WOMBLES differed from the Italian movement. In Spain, \"Mono Blanco\" was the preferred identifier. The first North American variant of the tute bianche, the NYC Ya Basta Collective (based in NYC) wore yellow overalls, rather than white.\n\nIn France, the Marxist group Socialisme ou Barbarie, led by philosopher Cornelius Castoriadis, could be said to be one of the first autonomist groups. Socialisme ou Barbarie drew upon the activist research of the American Johnson-Forest Tendency inside US auto plants and carried out their own investigations into rank-and-file workers struggles, struggles that were autonomous of union or party leadership.\n\nAlso parallel to the work of the Johnson-Forest Tendency, Socialisme ou Barbarie harshly criticised the Communist regime in the USSR, which it considered a form of \"bureaucratic capitalism\" and not at all the socialism it claimed to be. Philosopher Jean-François Lyotard was also part of this movement.\n\nHowever, the Italian influence of the \"operaismo\" movement was more directly felt in the creation of the review \"Matériaux pour l'intervention\" (1972–73) by Yann Moulier-Boutang, a French economist close to Toni Negri. This led in turn to the creation of the Camarades group (1974–78). Along with others, Moulier-Boutang joined the Centre International pour des Nouveaux Espaces de Liberté (CINEL), founded three years earlier by Félix Guattari, and assisted Italian activists accused of terrorism, of whom at least 300 fled to France.\n\nThe French autonome mouvement organised itself in the AGPA (Assemblée Parisienne des Groupes Autonomes, \"Parisian Assembly of Autonome Groups\"; 1977–78). Many tendencies were present in it, including the Camarades group led by Moulier-Boutang, members of the Organisation communiste libertaire, some people referring themselves to the \"Desiring Autonomy\" of Bob Nadoulek, but also squatters and street-wise people (including the groupe Marge). French autonomes supported captured Red Army Faction former members. Jean-Paul Sartre also intervened on the conditions for the detention of RAF detainees.\n\nThe militant group Action directe appeared in 1979 and carried out several violent direct actions. Action Directe claimed responsibility for the murders of Renault's CEO Georges Besse and General Audran. George Besse had been CEO of nuclear company Eurodif. Action Directe was dissolved in 1987.\n\nIn the 1980s, the autonomist movement underwent a deep crisis in Italy because of effective prosecution by the State, and was stronger in Germany than in France. It remained present in Parisian squats and in some riots (for example in 1980 near the Jussieu Campus in Paris, or in 1982 in the Ardennes department during anti-nuclear demonstrations). From 1986 to 1994 the French group occupied several buildings of the French national social housing authority to denounce the cruel lack of lodging for workers, they were several hundred and took their decisions in democratic assembly, with support from all autonomous groups of Paris, many of them were worked on the anti prison . In the 1980s, the French autonomists published the periodicals \"CAT Pages\" (1981–82), \"Rebelles\" (1981–93), \"Tout !\" (1982–85), \"Molotov et Confetti\" (1984), \"Les Fossoyeurs du Vieux Monde\", \"La Chôme\" (1984–85), and \"Contre\" (1987–89).\n\nIn the 1990s, the French autonomist movement was present in struggles led by unemployed people, with Travailleurs, Chômeurs, et Précaires en colère (TCP, \"Angry Workers, Unemployed, and Marginalised people\") and l'Assemblée générale des chômeurs de Jussieu (\"General Assembly of Jussieu's unemployed people\"). It was also involved in the alter-globalisation movement and above all in the solidarity with illegal foreigners (Collective Des Papiers pour tous (\"Permits for all\", 1996) and Collectif Anti-Expulsion (1998–2005)). Several autonomist journals date from this time: \"Quilombo\" (1988–93), \"Apache\" (1990–98), \"Tic-Tac\" (1995–97), \"Karoshi\" (1998–99), and \"Tiqqun\" (1999–2001).\n\nFrom 19 to 28 July 2002, a No borders camp was made in Strasbourg to protest against anti-immigration policies, in particular inside the Schengen European space.\n\nIn 2003, autonomists came into conflict with the French Socialist Party (PS) during a demonstration that took place in the frame of the European Social Forum in Saint-Denis (Paris). At the end of December, hundreds of unemployed people helped themselves in the \"Bon Marché\" supermarket to be able to celebrate Christmas (an action called \"autoréduction\" (of prices) in French). French riot police (CRS) physically opposed the unemployed people inside the shop. Autonomes rioted during the spring 2006 protests against the CPE, and again after the 2007 presidential election when Nicolas Sarkozy was elected.\n\nOn 11 November 2008, the French police arrested ten people, including five living in a farmhouse on a hill overlooking Tarnac, and accused them of associating with a \"terrorist enterprise\" by sabotaging TGV's overhead lines. Nine out of ten were let go and only Julien Coupat, the alleged leader, remained in custody for about a year, charged with \"directing a terrorist group\" by the Paris Prosecutor's office.\n\nIn Germany, \"Autonome\" was used during the late 1970s to depict the most radical part of the political left. These individuals participated in practically all actions of the social movements at the time, especially in demonstrations against nuclear energy plants (Brokdorf 1981, Wackersdorf 1986) and in actions against the construction of airport runways (Frankfurt 1976–86). The defense of squats against the police such as in Hamburg's \"Hafenstraße\" was also a major \"task\" for the \"autonome\" movement. The Dutch anarchist \"Autonomen\" movement from the 1960s also concentrated on squatting.\n\nTactics of the \"Autonome\" were usually militant, including the construction of barricades or throwing stones or molotov cocktails at the police. During their most powerful times in the early 1980s, on at least one occasion the police had to take flight.\n\nBecause of their outfit (heavy black clothing, ski masks, helmets), the \"Autonome\" were dubbed \"der schwarze Block\" by the German media, and in these tactics were similar to modern black blocs. In 1989, laws regarding demonstrations in Germany were changed, prohibiting the use of so-called \"passive weaponry\" such as helmets or padding and covering your face.\n\nToday, the \"autonome\" scene in Germany is greatly reduced and concentrates mainly on anti-fascist actions, ecology, solidarity with refugees, and feminism. There are larger and more militant groups still in operation, such as in Switzerland or Italy.\n\nIn Greece, the \"anarcho-autonomoi\" (Greek αναρχο-αυτόνομοι \"anarchist-autonomists\") emerged as an important trend in the youth and student movement, first during the 1973 Athens Polytechnic uprising against the military dictatorship that ruled the country at the time. After the collapse of the dictatorship in 1974, the \"anarcho-autonomoi\" became considerably influential, firstly as a social trend within the youth and then as a (very loose and diverse) political trend. The definition \"anarcho-autonomoi\", itself, is much debated. One reason for this is that it was originally coined by opponents. However, it was also quite quickly adopted by many adherents, used as a generic term.\n\nBefore 1973, in Greece, there was very little tradition in anarchism or libertarian socialism in general. Thus, the radical Greek youth in the 1970s, having very little relative background to refer to, resided to an extensive \"syncretism\" of multiple trends originating in the respective movements in other European countries. Anarchist and anarcho-syndicalist trends converged with situationist, workerist, or other autonomist trends and even with radical (non-autonomist) Marxist trends. The \"anarcho-autonomoi\" made a very strong stand\n"}
{"id": "10701042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10701042", "title": "Beyond Capricorn", "text": "Beyond Capricorn\n\nBeyond Capricorn: How Portuguese adventurers secretly discovered and mapped Australia and New Zealand 250 years before Captain Cook is a 2007 book by journalist Peter Trickett on the theory of Portuguese discovery of Australia. Although its thesis is similar to that advanced by Kenneth McIntyre in 1977, Lawrence Fitzgerald in 1984 and others, the publisher and some news reports presented it as being a new theory on the discovery of Australia.\n\nHistorical scholars, including Flinders University Associate Professor Bill Richardson, generally reject the premise on which the book is based, pointing out that only circumstantial evidence has been presented which supports the theory.\n\nThe book has been translated into Portuguese. On 8 May 2008 the colloquium of specialists in Portuguese maritime history, \"Os Portugueses na Austrália\", was held at the Science Museum of the University of Coimbra in Portugal, to discuss \"Beyond Capricorn\". The consensus of the experts was expressed by the chair of the colloquium, Francisco Domingues, who said: \"the Portuguese went to Australia but Australia did not at all interest them\", and \"the Portuguese went to Australia; the English discovered it (in the sense of having given to it a place in the community of nations)\". In 2013 the essays, opinions and discussions presented on the colloquium were collected in a book entitled \"Portugueses na Austrália\", published by Coimbra University Press.\n\nThe title of the book refers to the sixteenth century Dieppe maps of France which in part show land in a continent extending south of the Tropic of Capricorn that is in the area of Australia. Trickett claims that the Portuguese were the first Europeans to discover Australia, between 1519–23, well before the first recognised landfall of Europeans in Australia in 1606 by Willem Janszoon. According to Trickett, a 1520 expedition searching for gold and led by Diogo Pacheco (a relative of Duarte Pacheco), may have been the first Europeans to sight Australia, in the present-day Kimberley region of Western Australia. Using an account from João de Barros's \"Décadas da Ásia\", a 1786 history of the Portuguese empire in Asia, Trickett argues Pacheco was killed at Napier Broome Bay, in a battle with Aborigines. Trickett claims the Carronade Island cannons originate from this voyage.\n\nMost of the book, however, focuses on the claimed voyage of a fleet of four ships commanded by Cristóvão de Mendonça, along the eastern and southern coasts of Australia then to New Zealand shortly afterwards, and another Portuguese voyage along the west coast. Trickett uses one of the Dieppe maps in the highly decorated \"Vallard\" atlas of 1547 to demonstrate this. Trickett claims that Mendonça travelled down the east coast of Australia, sailing into Botany Bay and then around Wilsons Promontory to Kangaroo Island, before returning to Portuguese-controlled Malacca via the North Island of New Zealand. He also claims the Portuguese charted the Western Australian coast, as far south as the southwest tip of Australia. Trickett claims that the French Vallard maps were composed of several portolan charts that were incorrectly assembled from now lost Portuguese charts. Trickett adjusts parts of the Vallard maps by rotating them 90 degrees, giving what he claims is a remarkably accurate depiction of Australia's eastern, southern, and western coasts.\n\nTrickett goes through almost every written location on the Vallard maps, giving an English translation and explaining where he believes the place is located. He also mentions the mythical Mahogany Ship, the ruins at Bittangabee Bay on the south coast of New South Wales, various Aboriginal legends and alleged linguistic similarities, and various artefacts found in Queensland and New Zealand which he claims pre-date known European exploration, as further evidence of a Portuguese discovery of Australia and New Zealand.\n\nIn the publicity campaign surrounding the release of the book, several media reports mentioned Trickett’s claim that the Vallard map accurately showed Botany Bay to the point where Sydney Airport runways could be drawn on it. Trickett’s Botany Bay is \"Baia Neve\" on the Vallard Map, and on p. 155 Trickett provides a sketch map of the bay with Sydney Airport runways drawn on it to the same scale. He acknowledges the bay is \"too large to be Botany Bay in relation to the scale of the Vallard map as a whole\". He explains that sixteenth century map-makers \"enlarge(d) … important sections of their charts,\" such as this bay, hence its exaggerated size. The Vallard map original also shows two large islands in the bay and seven islands just outside the mouth of the bay. Trickett identified the islands inside the bay as Bare Island and a large mudflat, drying out at low tide, which he believed appeared as a large island to the Portuguese explorers. The seven islands outside the bay he identifies as a misplacing of the Five Islands Group (50 km away near Wollongong); a representation of the North Head of Sydney Harbour and a representation of Cape Three Points (now Boudi, 70 km away near Broken Bay).\n\nFollowing its initial reception online and in the popular press, a number of criticisms of the book have appeared, by scholars including Associate Professor (Spanish and Portuguese) W.A.R. \"Bill\" Richardson. Trickett repeatedly criticises \"orthodox academics\" for ignoring or denigrating the theory of Portuguese discovery of Australia, while acknowledging that the book is \"not written as an academic treatise—it is aimed at a wider audience\".\n\nTrickett’s approach of using only one Dieppe map as the basis for his book, without significant reference to any of the other existing Dieppe maps, has been questioned. The Vallard map of 1547 is not the first of the Dieppe maps, and Richardson argues Trickett incorrectly \"assumes the unknown Vallard cartographer had access to much more information\" because it contains more place names. Richardson adds that \"the hybrid inscriptions [of the Vallard] are in an astonishing jumble of languages\", many of which Trickett misreads or misinterprets; suggesting, for example, that the island \"Illa do Aljofar\" may have Polynesian origins.\n\nTrickett also reproduces a number of sketch maps, comparing Terra Java/Jave La Grande of the A3-sized pages of the Vallard atlas with modern detailed knowledge of the Australian coast, but without showing any scale. Richardson argues this practice misleads the reader, and he previously argued Kenneth McIntyre’s comparative sketches also misled in the same way. The issues in providing such sketch maps for comparison purposes are highlighted in Trickett’s sketch map copy of \"Illa Do Magna\", which he compares to a rough sketch map of New Zealand’s North Island. Richardson adds that the lack of scale used in \"Beyond Capricorn\"’s sketch maps causes the reader \"to fail to realise that [Trickett’s adjusted] 'Wilsons Promontory' is some 17 degrees, nearly 2,000 kilometres, south of the real Wilsons Promontory.\"\n\nCommenting in 1985 on other writers who compared Australia’s coast with the Dieppe Maps, Richardson wrote, \"it is difficult not to express admiration for the extreme ingenuity exercised in their endeavours to 'correct' the Jave La Grande outline in order to compel it to conform more closely to the known outline of Australia.\" Writing in 2007 for an Australian mapmaking journal, he suggested Trickett has also taken an approach of \"if evidence does not suit a theory, one solution is to alter it.\"\n\nIn an article in \"The Globe\" in 2009, Robert J. King refers to \"Beyond Capricorn\", arguing that Jave la Grande is a theoretical construction, an artifact of 16th century cosmography. He points out that the geographers and map makers of the Renaissance struggled to bridge the gap from the world view inherited from Graeco-Roman antiquity, as set out in Claudius Ptolemy's \"Geography\", and a map of the world that would take account of the new geographical information obtained during the Age of Discoveries. The Dieppe world maps reflected the state of geographical knowledge of their time, both actual and theoretical. Accordingly, Java Major, or Jave la Grande, was shown as a promontory of the undiscovered Antarctic continent of Terra Australis. King argues that Jave la Grande on the Dieppe maps represents one of Marco Polo's pair of Javas (Major or Minor), misplaced far to the south of its actual location and attached to a greatly enlarged Terra Australis; it does not represent Australia, discovered by unknown Portuguese voyagers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51902477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51902477", "title": "Bishop Samuel's inscription", "text": "Bishop Samuel's inscription\n\nThe Bishop Samuel's inscription () is an Ancient Greek limestone tombstone slab inscription which was discovered in 1934, in the monastic cemetery of the Byzantine period, at the YMCA area in Jerusalem.\n\nThe inscription mentions \"Iberian\" [i.e. Georgian] \"bishop, Samuel\" and the purchase of a tomb or a monastery in the Tower of David. Because of the incorrect Greek, it is unclear if the Iberians bought a tomb or a monastery. The slab is partly broken and the whole right corner of it is lost. It is dated to the late 5th or early 6th century AD. The inscription is kept at Rockefeller Museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13571915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13571915", "title": "Black Swans (special forces)", "text": "Black Swans (special forces)\n\nThe Black Swans () was a special forces unit within the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was a Patriotic League unit formed in 1992 in Sapna, under the 2nd Corps (later 1st Corps) which eventually numbered 800 men. It earned a reputation for battlefield bravery. The first commander, Senad Mehdin Hodžić, was a former member of the Special anti-terrorist unit of the Yugoslav Ministry of Internal Affairs (MUP). When he took command of the Black Swans, he would be known as \"Kapetan Labud\" or Captain Swan. Captain Hajro Mešić then went on to take the commanding position for a while. The most successful and lasting commander was Brigadier Hase Tirić. The Black Swans' areas of operation included Konjic, Igman and Jablanica. The Black Swans wore black uniforms with their respective unit patch on the left sleeve, and the ARBIH patch on the right sleeve.\n"}
{"id": "71510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71510", "title": "British Israelism", "text": "British Israelism\n\nBritish Israelism (also called Anglo-Israelism) is a movement which holds the view that the people of England (or more broadly, the people of the British Isles) are \"genetically, racially, and linguistically the direct descendants\" of the Ten Lost Tribes of ancient Israel. With roots in the 16th century, British Israelism was inspired by several 19th-century English writings such as John Wilson's 1840 \"Our Israelitish Origin\". The movement never had a head organisation or a centralized structure. Various British Israelite organisations were set up throughout the British Empire as well as in America from the 1870s; a number of these organisations are active as of the early 21st century. In America, its ideas gave rise to the Christian Identity movement.\n\nThe central tenets of British Israelism have been refuted by evidence from modern archaeological, ethnological, genetic, and linguistic research.\n\nAccording to Brackney (2012) and Fine (2015), the French Hugenot magistrate M. le Loyer's \"The Ten Lost Tribes\", published in 1590, provided the first expression that \"Anglo-Saxon, Celtic, Scandinavian, Germanic, and associated cultures\" were direct descendants of the ancient Israelites. Anglo-Israelism has also been attributed to Francis Drake and James VI and I, who believed he was the King of Israel. Adriaan van Schrieck (1560-1621), who influenced Henry Spelman (1562-1641) and John Sadler (1615-1674), wrote in the early 17th century about his ideas on the origins of the Celtic and Saxon peoples. In 1649, Sadler published \"The Rights of the Kingdom\", \"which argues for an 'Israelite genealogy for the British people'\".\n\nAspects of British Israelism and its influences have also been traced to Richard Brothers' \"A Revealed Knowledge of the Prophecies and Times\" in 1794, John Wilson's \"Our Israelitish Origin\" (1840s), and John Pym Yeatman's \"The Shemetic Origin of the Nations of Western Europe\" (1879).\n\nBritish Israelism arose in England, then spread to the United States. British-Israelists cite various medieval manuscripts to claim an older origin, but British Israelism as a distinct movement appeared in the early 1880s:\n\nThe extent to which the clergy in Britain became aware of the movement may be gauged from the comment made by Cardinal John Henry Newman (1801–1890) when asked why he had left the Church of England in 1845 to join the Roman Catholic Church. He said that there was a very real danger that the movement \"would take over the Church of England.\"\n\nIn the later 19th century, Edward Hine, Edward Wheeler Bird, and Herbert Aldersmith developed the British Israelite movement. Hine and Bird would achieve a degree of \"doctrinal coherence\" by seeing off competing forms of the ideology: in 1878 the Anglo-Ephraim Association of London, which followed Wilson in embraced the broader community of western European Germanic peoples among those they believed were favored by God, would be absorbed into Bird's Metropolitan Anglo-Israel Association, espousing the Anglo-exclusive view promoted by Hine.\n\nBy the 1890s, the \"Anglo-Israel Association\" had 300 members; it was based in Britain and founded in 1879 by physician George Moore. Hine later departed for the United States where he promoted the idea.\n\nThe 1906 \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" stated that British Israelism's adherents \"are said to number 2,000,000 in England and the United States\", an unreliable figure if association membership and journal subscription numbers are any guide, though there would have been a broader, unmeasurable sympathy towards the views of the movement among Protestants globally.\n\nBetween 1899 and 1902, adherents of British Israelism dug up parts of the Hill of Tara in the belief that the Ark of the Covenant was buried there, doing much damage to one of Ireland's most ancient royal and archaeological sites. At the same time, British Israelism became associated with various pseudo-archaeological pyramidology theories, such as the notion that the Pyramid of Khufu contained a prophetic numerology of the British peoples.\n\nIn 1914, the thirty-fourth year of its publication, the \"Anglo-Israel Almanac\" listed details of a large number of Kingdom Identity Groups operating independently throughout the British Isles and in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Canada, and the United States of America.\n\nIn 1919, the British-Israel-World Federation (BIWF) was founded in London, and Covenant Publishing was founded in 1922. William Pascoe Goard was the first director of the publishing house. During this time, several prominent figures patronized the BIWF organization and its publisher; Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone was Patron-in-chief in pre-World War II days. One of the highest profile members was William Massey, then Prime Minister of New Zealand. Due to the expansive nature of the British Empire, believers in British Israelism spread worldwide and the BIWF expanded its organization to the commonwealth. Howard Rand promoted the teaching and became National Commissioner of the Anglo-Saxon Federation of America in 1928. He published \"The Bulletin\", later renamed \"The Messenger of the Covenant\". More recently, it has been renamed \"Destiny\".\n\nDuring its peak in the early 20th century, British Israelism was also supported by John Fisher, 1st Baron Fisher. A prolific author on British Israelism during the later 1930s and 40s was Alexander James Ferris.\n\nThe BIWF continues to exist, with its main headquarters located in Bishop Auckland in County Durham. It also has chapters in Australia, Canada, The Netherlands, New Zealand and South Africa.\n\nIn 1968, one source estimated that there were between 3,000 and 5,000 British Israelites in Britain. There, the theology of British Israelism has been taught by a few small Pentecostal churches. The espousal of British Israelism by George Jeffreys, founder of the Elim Pentecostal Church, led to a schism, precipitating his 1939 resignation and the formation of the Bible-Pattern Church Fellowship, which continues to teach the doctrine.\n\nThe teaching of British Israelism was vigorously promoted beginning in the 1960s by Herbert W. Armstrong, founder and former Pastor General of the Worldwide Church of God. Armstrong believed that the teaching was a key to understanding biblical prophecy: \"One might ask, were not biblical prophecies closed and sealed? Indeed they were—until now! And even now they can be understood only by those who possess the master key to unlock them.\" Armstrong believed that he was called by God to proclaim the prophecies to the Lost Tribes of Israel before the \"end-times\". Armstrong's belief caused his separation from the Church of God Seventh Day because of its refusal to adopt the teaching.\n\nArmstrong created his own church, first called the \"Radio Church of God\" and later renamed the \"Worldwide Church of God\". He described British Israelism as a \"central plank\" of his theology.\n\nAfter Armstrong's death, his former church abandoned its belief in British Israelism and changed its name to Grace Communion International (GCI) in 2009. It offers an explanation for the doctrine's origin and its abandonment by the church at its official website. Church members who disagreed with such doctrinal changes left the Worldwide Church of God/GCI to form offshoot churches. Many of these organizations still teach British Israelism, including the Philadelphia Church of God, the Living Church of God, and the United Church of God. Armstrong promoted other genealogical history theories, such as teaching the belief that modern-day Germany represents ancient Assyria, writing \"The Assyrians settled in central Europe, and the Germans, undoubtedly, are, in part, the descendants of the ancient Assyrians.\".\n\nAdherents believe the Twelve Tribes of Israel are the twelve sons of the patriarch Jacob (who was later named Israel). Jacob elevated the descendants of Ephraim and Manasseh (the two sons of Joseph) to the status of full tribes in their own right, replacing the tribe of Joseph.\nA division occurred among the twelve tribes in the days of Jeroboam and Rehoboam, with the three tribes of Judah, Benjamin and partially Levi, forming the Kingdom of Judah, and the remaining ten tribes forming the Kingdom of Israel (Samaria). Thus, they argue, \"the great bulk of Israelites are not the Jews\".\n\nThe key component of British Israelism is its representation of the migrations of the Lost Tribes of Israel. Adherents suggested that the Scythians, Cimmerians and Goths were representatives of these lost tribes, and progenitors of the later invaders of Britain. John Wilson would argue for the inclusion of all Western European Gothic peoples among the descendants of the Israelites, but under the later influence of Edward Hine the movement would come to view only the peoples of the British Isles as having this ancestry.\n\nHerodotus reported that the ancient Persians called all the Scythians \"Sacae\", but that they called themselves \"Scoloti\". However, a modern comparison among the forms given in other ancient languages suggests \"Skuda\" was their name. Ancient writers, such as Josephus and Jerome would associate the Scythians with the peoples of Gog and Magog, but British Israelist etymologists would see in \"Sacae\" a name derived from the biblical \"Isaac\", claiming that the appearance of the Scythians where they claimed the Lost Tribes were last documented also supported a connection. Further, British Israelists find support in the superficial resemblance between King Jehu's pointed headdress and that of the captive Saka king seen to the far right on the Behistun Rock. The chain of etymological identification leading from Isaac to the \"Sacae\" was continued to the Saxons (interpreted as Sac's sons - the sons of Isaac), who are portrayed as invading England from Denmark, the 'land of the Tribe of Dan'. They saw the same tribal name, left by the wanderers, in the Dar\"dan\"elles, the \"Dan\"ube, Mace\"don\"ia, \"Dun\"kirk, \"Dun\"glow in Ireland, \"Dun\"dee in Scotland, and Lon\"don\", and ascribed to this lost tribe the mythical Irish \"Tuatha Dé Danann\".\n\nBede (died 735) had linked the Picts to the Scythians, but British Israelists suggested that he had confused the two tribes of Scotland, and that it was the \"Scotti\" (Scots) who were one with the \"Scoloti\" (Scyths) of Herodotus. They drew particular support from the derivation of the Scots from the Scythians found in the 1320 Declaration of Arbroath, reflecting a tradition related in the 9th-century \"Historia Brittonum\" that the Scots descended from the union of a Scythian exile with Scota, daughter of a Pharaoh, a tale found in some form in several other early-14th-century historical and poetic sources. The Declaration begins:\n\"Most Holy Father and Lord, we know and from the chronicles and books of the ancients we find that among other famous nations our own, the Scots, has been graced with widespread renown. They journeyed from Greater Scythia by way of the Tyrrhenian Sea and the Pillars of Hercules, and dwelt for a long course of time in Spain among the most savage tribes, but nowhere could they be subdued by any race, however barbarous. Thence they came, twelve hundred years after the people of Israel crossed the Red Sea, to their home in the west where they still live today.\"\n\nBritish-Israel Associations cite the Declaration as evidence for the link between the Scots and the Scythians, and hence the Lost Tribes, as had been proposed by the early British Israelist etymologists.\n\nOther Celtic invaders would be given an analogous descent. In the Welsh (\"Cymry\") the British Israelists would see a direct connection through the Cimbri to the Cimmerians, the \"Gimirri\" of Assyrian annals, a name sometimes also given by the ancient Babylonians to the Scythians and Saka. Perceived similarity between this and the name by which the Assyrian annals referred to Israel, \"Beth Khumbree\", would lead the British Israelists to claim that the Welsh too were members of the Lost Tribes.\n\nAccording to the Anglo-Israelists, these claimed connections would make the British the literal descendants of the Lost Tribes, and thus inheritors of the promises made to the Israelites in the Old Testament.\n\nSome adherents further claim that the British Royal Family is directly descended from the line of King David. Citing the \"Book of Jeremiah\", they claim that the daughters of Zedekiah fled to Egypt, then 'the isles' in the sea, which they interpret as Ireland. The descendants of these princesses are said to have crossed to England where they became ancestors of the monarchs. The Stone of Scone, used in coronations of Scottish, English and British monarchs for centuries, is claimed to be none other than the pillow stone used by biblical patriarch, Jacob.\n\nA commonly found British-Israel doctrine is that the Tribe of Ephraim and the Tribe of Manasseh can be identified as modern day Britain and the United States of America. British-Israel adherents cite numerous theological, semiotics, archaeological, and ethnological resources as proofs.\n\nPart of the foundation of the British-Israel doctrine is the theological claim that particular blessings were bestowed upon three of the tribes of Israel, in that the tribe of Judah was to be the 'chief ruler' e.g. King David, and that Ephraim was to receive the birthright (See Jacob and Esau). Adherents believe that these blessings have continued down through the ages to modern times, with the British Monarchy identified as the continued blessing upon Judah, and both Britain (Ephraim) and the USA (Manasseh) as recipients of the national birthright blessing. \nThey cite passages such as 1 Chron 5:1-2 and Gen 48:19-20 as supporting this.\n\nEarly British Israelites such as Edward Hine and John Wilson were philo-semites. British Israelism itself had several Jewish members and it received support from rabbis throughout the 19th century. Within British politics, the movement supported Benjamin Disraeli, who was descended from Sephardi Jews, while they also favoured Theodor Herzl in his advocacy of Zionism. Still, below the surface there had existed an anti-semitic strain such as in the scientific racialism that led Wilson to deny the 'racial purity' of modern Jews, leading to the view more broadly within the movement that modern Jews were 'un-Semitic impostors'. Some American adherents of British Israelism would adopt a racialized, strongly anti-Semitic theology that became known as Christian Identity, which has at its core the belief that non-Caucasian people have no souls and therefore cannot be saved. Emerging in the 1920s, Christian Identity began teaching that the Jews are not descended from the tribe of Judah (as British Israelites maintain) at all, but are instead descended from Satan & Lilith or from Edomite-Khazars. The Anti-Defamation League (ADL) describes the emergence of Christian Identity from British Israelism as an 'ugly turn':\n\nAnother source describes the emergence of Christian Identity from British Israelism as a paradoxical \"remarkable transition\" from their philo-semitic origins to antisemitism and racism. Their adoption of the British Israelist belief that the Israelite-derived Anglo-Saxons had been favored by God over the 'impure' modern Jews meant that a reluctantly anti-Semitic Klansman \"could now maintain his anti-Semitism and at the same time revere a Bible cleansed of its Jewish taint.\"\n\nBritish Israelism has been criticized for poor research and scholarship. The \"Encyclopedia Britannica\" summarises in 1910 that: \"The theory [of British-Israelism] rests on premises which are deemed by scholars - both theological and anthropological - to be utterly unsound\". Current scholarship is not consistent with the claims of British Israelism, with scholars drawing attention to its \"historical and linguistic inaccuracies\" in addition to its links to antisemitism. Hale (2015) refers to \"the overwhelming cultural, historical and genetic evidence against it.\"\n\nCritics of British Israelism note that the arguments presented by promoters of the teaching are based on unsubstantiated and highly speculative amateur research. Tudor Parfitt, author of \"The Lost Tribes: The History of a Myth\", states that the proof cited by adherents of British Israelism is \"of a feeble composition even by the low standards of the genre.\"\n\nSome proponents of British Israelism have claimed numerous links in historical linguistics between ancient Hebrew and various European place names and languages. This can be traced to the works of John Wilson in the 19th century. Wilson, who was self-trained, looked for similarities in the sounds of words and argued that many Scottish, British and Irish words stemmed from ancient Hebrew. Wilson's publications inspired the development of British Israel language associations in Europe.\n\nModern scholarly linguistic analysis shows conclusively that the languages of the British Isles (English, Welsh, and Gaelic) belong to the Indo-European language family, while Hebrew is a Semitic language of the Afroasiatic language family. In 1906, T. R. Lounsbury stated that “no trace of the slightest real connection can be discovered” between English and ancient Hebrew, while Michael Friedman in 1993 wrote of the claims that Hebrew was closely related to Celtic and Anglo-Saxon that \"the actual evidence could hardly be any weaker\".\n\nOthers have addressed the specific word relationships proposed. Russell Spittler (1973) says of the \"disputable\" etymological claims made by the British Israelists that they \"have no ample basis in linguistic scholarship and are based on coincidences only.\" William Ingram (1995) would present arguments made by British Israelism as examples of \"tortured etymology\".\n\nAdherents of British Israelism cite various scriptures in support of the argument that the \"lost\" Northern Israelite Tribes migrated through Europe to end up in Britain. Dimont (1933) argues that British Israelists misunderstand and misinterpret the meaning of these scriptures.\n\nOne such case is the distinction that British Israelists make between the “Jews” of the Southern Kingdom and the “Israelites” of the Northern Kingdom. They believe that the Bible consistently distinguishes the two groups. Dimont says that many of these scriptures are misinterpreted because the distinction between “Jews” and “Israelites” was lost over time after the captivities.\n\nBritish Israelists believe that the Northern Tribes of Israel lost their identity after the captivity in Assyria and that this is reflected in the Bible. Dimont disagrees with this assertion and argues that only higher ranking Israelites were deported from Israel and many Israelites remained. He cites examples after the Assyrian captivity, such as Josiah, King of Judah, who received money from the tribes of \"“Manasseh, and Ephraim and all the remnant of Israel”\" (2 Chronicles 34:9), and Hezekiah, who sent invitations not only to Judah, but also to northern Israel for the attendance of a Passover in Jerusalem. (2 Chronicles 30); British Israelites interpret 2 Chronicles 34:9 as referring to \"Scythians\".\n\nDimont is also critical of the interpretations of biblical prophecy embraced by the movement, saying, \"Texts are torn from their context, and misapplied without the slightest regard to their original meaning.\"\n\nBritish Israelism rests on linking different ancient populations. This includes linking the \"lost\" tribes of Israel with the Scythians, Cimmerians, Celts, and modern Western Europeans such as the British. To support these links, some adherents believe that similarities exist between various cultural aspects of these population groups, and they argue that these links demonstrate the migration of the \"lost\" Israelites in a westerly direction. Examples given include burial customs, metalwork, clothing, dietary customs, and more. Dimont argues that the customs of the Scythians and the Cimmerians are in contrast with those of the Ancient Israelites, and he further dismisses the connection between these populations and the Saxons and Celts, particularly criticing then-current formulations of British Israelism that would interject Semites between the closely related English and Germans.\n\nThe Scythian origin of the Scots has been referred to as mythical. Algernon Herbert, writing in 1848, characterized the linguistic derivation of Scots from \"Scoloti\" as \"strictly impossible\", and Merrill (2005) referred to it as false etymology.\n\nAddressing their view on the fate of the exiled tribes, Frank Boys would refer to their volumous output, \"All the effort to write these volumes might well have been saved on the premise that 'they were never lost,' which we believe to be the correct one.\"\n\nParfitt suggests that the idea of British Israelism was inspired by numerous ideological factors, such as the desire for ordinary people to have a glorious ancestral past, pride in the British Empire, and the belief in the \"racial superiority of white Anglo-Saxon Protestants\", and Aikau characterized the movement as \"fundamentally about providing a rationale for Anglo-Saxon superiority.\" To Kidd, its theology represents a \"quasi-heresy\", serving to \"blunt the universalist message apparent in the New Testament\". Its role in fostering anti-semitism in conservative Protestant Christianity has been highlighted, as has a \"racial chauvinism\" that is \"not always covert\".\n\nSeparately, the mythology of British Israelism has been cited as fostering \"nationalistic bellicosity\". To some adherents, British Israelism served as a justification for British colonialism and imperialism, and perhaps even genocide, while also feeding American Manifest Destiny.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44499175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44499175", "title": "Caroline Playne", "text": "Caroline Playne\n\nCaroline Elizabeth Playne (1857–1948) was an English pacifist and historian. Playne's 1925 book \"The Neuroses of the Nations\" used Freudian psychology to put forward a critique of warfare. \n\nCaroline Playne approached the pacifist militancy first towards 1904, when she became a founding member of the Britain's National Peace Council, created to support the action of the international court in The Hague. In 1908 she took part in the International Congress for Peace in London, and on this occasion she met the Austrian pacifist Bertha von Suttner, of whom years later she wrote a biography. At the outbreak of the First World War, of which she had long had the presentiment, Playne engaged in relief activities of internees and prisoners of war, she continued as she could the pacifist militancy, and collected a large amount of materials and observations on the description of the psychological context of English society during the war. After the war she wrote her observations in five volumes in which there is the still embryonic attempt to give life to a psychological and anthropological theory of war, and there are innumerable observations of great acuteness on the English social life before and during the war, thanks to which Playne's work conserves at least a considerable document value.\n\n\nThe four volumes on the Great War are also available in electronic edition, in a single ebook that collects them all:\n\n"}
{"id": "23650107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23650107", "title": "Chinese era name", "text": "Chinese era name\n\nA Chinese era name is the regnal year, reign period, or regnal title used when traditionally numbering years in an emperor's reign and naming certain Chinese rulers. Some emperors have several era names, one after another, where each beginning of a new era resets the numbering of the year back to year one or \"yuán\" (元). The numbering of the year increases on the first day of the Chinese calendar each year. The era name originated as a motto or slogan chosen by an emperor.\n\nEmperor Wu of Han was conventionally regarded as the first emperor to declare an era name; however he was only the first to use an era name in every year of his reign. His grandfather and father also employed era names, though not continuously. Emperor Wu changed period titles every five years or so, going through a total of eleven reigning slogans during his reign from 140 BC to 87 BC.\n\nEach era name has a literary meaning. For instance, the first era name of Emperor Wu was \"Jianyuan\" (, \"jiànyuán\"), literally meaning \"establishing the Origin\". Era names also reflected characteristics of political and other landscapes at the time. \"Jianzhongjingguo\" (建中靖國 jiàn zhōng jìng guó), the first era name of Emperor Huizong of Song China, means \"establishing middle, peaceful country\", reflecting his idealism towards moderating the rivalry among the conservative and progressive parties on political and social reformation. The very first era name of the Qing was significant because it means \"[the Manchus possess] the Mandate of Heaven\". Popular phrases might be repeated, as with the numerous Taiping eras (. \"Era of Great Peace\").\n\nThe process of era name declaration was referred to in traditional Chinese history texts as \"jianyuan\". Declaring a new era name to replace an old one during an emperor's reign was referred to as \"gaiyuan\" (改元 gǎi yuán), literally meaning \"change the Origin\".\n\nTo name a year using an era name only requires counting years from the first year of the era. For example, 138 BC was the third year of \"Jianyuan\" (建元), since 140 BC was the first year. When more than one monarch used the same motto, the name of the specific monarch or dynasty has to be mentioned. For instance both Emperor Wu and Jin Kangdi picked \"Jianyuan\" as their motto. Thus was the second year of Jianyuan of the Jin Dynasty (or of Jin Kangdi) whereas 139 BC was the second year of Jianyuan of the Han Dynasty (or of Emperor Wu). In traditional literature, one can therefore find references like \"the first month of the thirteenth year of Jianyuan\" (建元十三年元月).\n\nAlmost all era names have exactly two characters. Notable exceptions are from the non-Han Chinese Western Xia Dynasty (1032–1227). Of the 33 Western Xia era names, seven have more than three characters. For example: \n\nBefore the Ming dynasty, an emperor often changed his era name as often as he liked. The numbering of the year still increases on the first day of the Chinese calendar each year, regardless of the month in which the era name change took place. For example, Emperor Xuanzong of Tang changed his era name, Xiantian (先天, pinyin: xiān tiān) to Kaiyuan (開元, pinyin: kāi yuán) in the twelfth (i.e. last) month of the Chinese calendar. The second year of Kaiyuan (開元二年) began on the first day of the next month (i.e. Chinese New Year's Day); this made the first year of Kaiyuan (開元元年) consist of only the last few days in the twelfth month following the name change.\n\nMing and Qing emperors generally used only one era name during their reign, and it is customary to refer to Ming and Qing emperors by their era names. When an emperor died, his successor would adopt a new era name, but the numbering of the new era name would only begin on the next New Year's Day. For example, when the Kangxi Emperor of Qing acceded the throne in 1661, it was a few days after New Year's Day, so the Shunzhi era continued for the rest of the year, and the first year of Kangxi (康熙元年) would only start on New Year's Day the following year, in 1662. Exceptions to this are the Taichang Emperor of the Ming (being dead after reigning for only one month, his successor decreed that the Taichang era name be used for the rest of the year), the Zhengtong Emperor of the Ming and Hung Taiji of the Qing (both used two era names).\n\nAn era name was a symbol of imperial power. Declaration of another era name when one was already in use was regarded as a challenge to the current emperor. The existence of more than one era name at a time often reflected political unrest. In addition, using a particular era name was a political act implying recognition of a sovereign's right to rule, and one issue that traditional Chinese historians faced was which set of era names to use when dating a historical event. For example, when the Yongle Emperor of the Ming usurped his nephew, the Jianwen Emperor's throne in 1402, he ordered all records of the four-year-reign of the Jianwen Emperor to be dated as year 32 through year 35 of the Hongwu Emperor (the emperor preceding Jianwen Emperor)'s reign, in order to establish himself as the legitimate successor of the Hongwu Emperor.\n\nEra names were also employed (under different naming conventions) in other East Asian countries such as Korea, Japan and Vietnam, mostly because of China's cultural influence. Imperial era names are still used in Japan. The Republic of China Era, used in China from 1912-1949, and still used in Republic of China (ROC), marks years as \"Minguo\" (i.e. the Republic), which is usually regarded as an era name. For example, the 1st year of the \"Republic Era\" was 1912. Therefore, 2018 is \"the year of the Republic Era\" (民國-1911年). On the mainland, era names were abolished with the adoption of the Common Era at the founding of the People's Republic in 1949.\n\nWhile the era system is a more traditional system of dating that preserves Chinese and Japanese culture, it presents a problem for the more globalized Asian society and for everyday life.\n\nFor example, even though within the nation people will know what era they are in, it is relatively meaningless for other nations. In addition, while Republic of China (ROC) and Japan only recognize documents dated in the Era System, their treaties with other countries are in the Dionysian Era (AD) system. In modern times, only Republic of China and Japan still continue to use the ancient Chinese era naming system.\n\nEven in the domestic arena, the era system can present difficult dilemmas. For example, in Japan, it is difficult to keep track of the age of people who were born in the previous era. Also, while ROC and Japan both continue to use the ancient Chinese era system, since they have partially adopted the Gregorian calendar for non-governmental use, it is more difficult to track down dates that fall on February 29 leap year in the Western calendar.\n\nFurthermore, in Japan, in theory it is difficult to mention future dates since it is sometimes hard to tell whether the current emperor will live long enough for its citizens to use that era name. However, in practice, documents like driver's licenses and 50-year leases use era dates without regard to this problem.\n\nOn the other hand, others suggest that the AD system has too much Christian connotation behind it and it is a form of cultural imperialism when an essentially European system of dating is forced upon other civilizations with their own long-used and equally legitimate dating systems. However, with globalization, the AD system is becoming more acceptable in Japan and the ROC.\n\nModern history researchers do not care about era names except for supporting other arguments, such as figuring out the biases and attitudes of a particular historian; however, era names are useful for dating events that were unique in Chinese history. Most Chinese dictionaries have a comprehensive list of era names, while booklets of more detailed and often searchable lists can be found in libraries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1904166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1904166", "title": "Chronicle of Moissac", "text": "Chronicle of Moissac\n\nThe Chronicle of Moissac (also known as Chronicon Moissiacense) is an anonymous compilation that was discovered in the abbey of Moissac, but is now thought to have been compiled in the Catalan monastery of Ripoll in the end of the tenth century. Like most chronicles, it begins with Adam, but gains increasing interest for historians as it nears its end date of 828. Unfortunately the entries covering the years 716-770 are missing. The only surviving manuscript of the \"Chronicle of Moissac\" dates from the 11th century and is now in the French National Library in Paris (Cod. Paris. lat. 4886).\n\nThe compiler seems to have used early annals that had been compiled in southwest Francia, otherwise untraced, which contribute as primary sources for the career of Charlemagne and the military, political and ecclesiastical history of his times.\n\n"}
{"id": "39096069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39096069", "title": "Chronicon Gothanum", "text": "Chronicon Gothanum\n\nThe Chronicon Gothanum or Historia langobardorum codicis gothani (\"HLCGoth.\") is a history of the Lombard people written at and for the court of King Pippin of Italy between the years 806 and 810. It is preserved in one twelfth-century codex, Forschungsbibliothek 84 at Gotha, from which it gets its Latin names. The text is ideologically pro-Carolingian, and among its sources are Isidore of Seville and possibly Jerome.\n\nThe \"Chronicon\" covers the period from the origins of the Lombards to the campaign of Pippin against Islamic Corsica: \"Then the island of Corsica, oppressed by the Moors, his army liberated from their rule.\" This campaign is also recorded in the \"Annales regni Francorum\", which place it in the year 806. Since the \"Chronicon\" also praises Pippin as if he is still living, it must have been written between the last event it records (806) and his death in 810.\n\nNothing about the author of the \"Chronicon Gothanum\" is known for certain. His pro-Carolingian stance has led some historians, such as Claudio Azzara and Stefano Gasparri, to believe that he was a Frank. Others, such as Stefano Cingolani, Bruno Luiselli and Magali Coumert, believe he was a Lombard, since in one passage he seems to identify with them when he refers to the Lombards during their time in Saxony as \"our ancient forefathers\". Another autobiographical detail is sometimes coaxed from the text when the author says that the remains of the residence of king Wacho were still visible in his day. Since Wacho was king during the Lombards' stay in Pannonia, and Pippin fought a war with the Avars in that region, it is possible that the author was with Pippin on the expedition and saw the remains of the house for himself. It is equally possible that he was merely reporting what he had heard.\n\nThe place of writing is also unknown: Coumert believes the author worked in the Abbey of Montecassino, while Walter Pohl hypothesised that it took place in Milan and Luigi Berto agrees that it is probably a north Italian work. Berto also concludes that the author was \"probably a member of Pippin's court\".\n\nAzzara and Gasparri, in a recent critical edition of Lombard laws, posit that the \"Chronicon Gothanum\" is based in part on the \"Origo gentis langobardorum\", a position supported by the \"Chronicon\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s initial editor, Friedrich Bluhme, who placed them side by side in the \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\". If this were the case, it would provide evidence for the circulation of the \"Origo\" some 150 years before the earliest surviving tenth-century copy, although the original text of the \"Origo\" may have been composed as early as the reign of Perctarit (671–88). In another critical edition of the \"Origo\", Annalisa Bracciotti hypothesises that a \"subarchetype\" of the text tradition of the \"Chronicon Gothanum\" circulating in eighth-century Italy was used by Paul the Deacon for his \"Historia langobardorum\". Cingolani argues that the \"Chronicon\" and the \"Origo\" made use of a common (now lost) source. Berto says that the \"Origo\" and \"some other unknown texts\" were the sources used by the author of the \"Chronicon\".\n\nNicholas Everett believes that rather than drawing on the \"Origo\" or some earlier \"Ur-\"Origo\"\", the \"Chronicon Gothanum\" could have borrowed just as easily from Paul the Deacon, a theory also suggested by Walter Goffart. The \"Chronicon\" does not contain the story of Woden and Frea that the \"Origo\" does, and it borrows text \"verbatim\" from Isidore explaining the original name of the Lombards (\"Winili\") as derived from a river \"Vindilicus\" on the edges of Gaul and describing them as \"prone to long beards and never shorn\" (\"ad barba prolixa et numquam tonsa\"). \n\nAmong the stories that may have been borrowed from Paul, the \"Chronicon\" blames the Romans' weakness in the face of the Lombard invasion of Italy on a pestilence that occurred during the time of Narses, and the legendary Germanic hero Walter is an early king of the Lombards. The \"Chronicon\" also follows Paul in praising the heretical King Rothari because of his legislation, the \"Edictum Rothari\": \"In the time of King Rothari, a light arose in the darkness; through him, the aforementioned Lombards strove for canonical rules and became helpers of priests.\" The \"Chronicon\" diverges from Paul in calling Peredeo, the assassin of the first Lombard king in Italy, Alboin, a mere \"cubicularius\", a type of eunuch.\n\nThe \"Chronicon Gothanum\" is less detailed than the \"Origo\" in its narrative of the Lombards' migration from northern Europe to Italy. It says that the Lombards were descended from serpents and describes their movements as being guided by Providence towards a Promised Land (Italy). It credits God with raising them from the dung through conversion and baptism to be among the \"number of the good\" (\"numerum bonorum\"). It has been suggested that the \"Chronicon\" censors the pagan aspects of Lombard history, but while its narrative is more providential, it is not circumspect about the Lombards' paganism. The author argues that the Lombards came to Italy precisely to be saved, and reminds his readers that \"where there is no law, sin is not to be imputed\".\n\nThe \"Chronicon\" says that Alboin saw that God had predestined Pavia to be his capital, whereas Paul the Deacon has a story explaining how Pavia proved itself to be under divine protection. For all the kings of the Lombards after Alboin, the \"Chronicon\" gives only the length of reign, except for Rothari. Unlike Paul, the \"Chronicon\" does not mention that Rothari was an Arian.\n\nThe final sections of the \"Chronicon\" are full of lavish praise for Charlemagne and Pippin, the reigning king. The author praises Pippin's conquest of the duchy of Benevento, his victory over the Avars (\"Abari\" or \"Beowinides\", i.e. \"Bohemians\") and his reconquest of Corsica in 806. In fact, Benevento was never fully subdued and Corsica was raided by the Moors again in 809 and conquered by them in 810. The \"Chronicon\" portrays the first decades of Carolingian rule in Italy as a golden age of peace and prosperity, in contrast to the \"Historia\" written by Andreas of Bergamo later that century, which portrays the time as a period of misfortunes and famine.\n\nMagali Coumert argues that the \"Chronicon\" stresses continuity between the pagan Lombards and the Carolingians by portraying both the first Lombard king, Angelmund, and Pippin as both fighting the \"Beowinides\" (Avars). The two-hundred-year pact the pagan Lombards are said to have made with the Avars while in Pannonia then paved the way for their entry into Italy, and Pippin's victory over the Avars connects the Frankish conquest to the destiny of the now-Christian Lombards\n\n"}
{"id": "23729419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23729419", "title": "Chu Silk Manuscript", "text": "Chu Silk Manuscript\n\nThe Chu Silk Manuscript (), also known as the Chu Silk Manuscript from Zidanku in Changsha (), is a Chinese astrological and astronomical text. It was discovered in a (c. 300 BCE) Warring States period tomb from the southern Chinese state of Chu.\n\nThe provenance of the Chu Silk Manuscript is uncertain, like many illicit antiquities. Sometime between 1934 and 1942, grave robbers discovered it in a tomb near Zidanku (literally \"bullet storehouse\"), east of Changsha, Hunan. Archeologists later found the original tomb and dated it to around 300 BCE.\n\nIn 1946, the art collector Cai Jixiang (蔡季襄) owned the manuscript. John Hadley Cox then transported it to the United States. How John Hadley Cox acquired the manuscript from Cai Jixiang remains a controversy: Cai claimed that Cox had been asked to help scan the manuscript only; Cai's efforts to have the manuscript returned had persisted till the late 1970s but failed. The philanthropist Arthur M. Sackler purchased the ancient manuscript in 1965, and it is preserved in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery in Washington, D.C. Papers related to the manuscript can be found at the Freer Gallery of Art and Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Archives.\n\nRecent excavations of Chu-period tombs have discovered historically comparable manuscripts written on fragile bamboo slips and silk – the Chinese word \"zhubo\" (竹帛 literally \"bamboo and silk\") means \"bamboo slips and silk (for writing); ancient books\". The Chu Silk Manuscript was roughly contemporaneous with the (c. 305 BCE) Tsinghua Bamboo Slips and (c. 300 BCE) Guodian Chu Slips, and it preceded the (168 BCE) Mawangdui Silk Texts. Its subject matter predates the (c. 168 BCE) Han Dynasty silk \"Divination by Astrological and Meteorological Phenomena\".\n\nThe Chu Silk Manuscript is 47 cm long and 38 cm wide, with worn edges and folds. Exposure to light has made some portions dark and unreadable, but infrared photography helped to decipher some illegible portions.\n\nThis silken document contains 926 ancient characters in three sections, each of which involves some aspect of the lunisolar Chinese calendar. Li and Cook (1999) call them the \"Year (Inner Long Text)\", \"Seasons (Inner Short Text)\", and \"Months (Surrounding Text)\".\n\nThe Inner Long and Short Text are alternate blocks, respectively with thirteen lines of text upright and with eight lines inverted (cf. Greek Boustrophedon). Jao Tsung-I (Lawton 1991:178) proposes the former section is written right side up because it discusses the creation myths of the Chu people, and the latter is upside down because it describes events when heaven is in disarray.\n\nThe Surrounding Text in the four margins pictures a color-symbolic tree in each corner plus twelve masked zoomorphic figures with short descriptions. Scholars associate the twelve pictures with the Chu gods for the months and the four trees with the mythic pillars holding up the heavens. The Inner Short Text describes Gong Gong knocking down one heavenly pillar and causing the earth to tilt. Although these twelve figures have no certain interpretation, Loewe (1978:105) reasons, \"it seems likely that they may represent twelve guardian gods or holy spirits, severally invested with powers of action for each of the twelve months. Alternatively they may represent twelve shamans or intermediaries, wearing masks and capable of communicating with such deities.\" Li Xueqin (1987) identified these twelve gods with the ancient names for the months given in the \"Erya\" (8/15, Chu 陬, Ru 如, Bing 寎, ...). The manuscript's sides represent the four directions and seasons. In traditional Chinese terms, the Four Symbols are the Azure Dragon of the East (青龍), Vermillion Bird of the South (朱雀), White Tiger of the West (白虎), and Black Tortoise of the North (玄武). Each direction is divided into seven sectors, constituting the Twenty-Eight Mansions (二十八宿) of the lunar month.\n\nThe Chu Silk Manuscript concerns Chinese astronomy and Chinese astrology, describes the creation myths of Fuxi and Nuwa, and reveals ancient religious perspectives and cosmogony. Li and Cook (1999:172) conclude that, \"Generally, the writer of the manuscript was concerned that the calendar be used with proper respect and knowledge. Otherwise, the text threatens, cosmic collapse and evil catastrophic events would occur.\" Li and Cook identify the design with the \"shitu\" (式圖 \"cosmic model diagram\").\nThe Chu Silk Manuscript consists of both illustrations and texts; it is designed to resemble a divination board (\"shi\"; also sometimes called a diviner's board or cosmograph), which is itself a model of the cosmos. This type of instrument, of which several have been found in Han tombs, consists of a round board symbolizing heaven that can rotate on a pivot on top of a square board representing the earth. (1999:172) \nThis \"shi\" (式, literally \"model; standard; form; pattern\") or \"shipan\" (式盤) was the precursor for the \"luopan\" (羅盤) or \"feng shui compass\".\n\nInterpreting the Chu Silk Manuscript's brush-written Chinese characters is especially difficult. Some of these ancient logograms are illegible and some are missing in lacuna. Others are what Barnard (1981:181) calls \"descendantless graphs\" unidentified with standard characters, which \"may reflect something of the Ch'u (written) \"dialect\" rather than more general characteristics of pre-Han character structures.\"\n\nBarnard (1973) provided the first English translation of the manuscript, followed by Li and Cook (1999). To illustrate the subject matter, the translated beginning of each section is quoted below. Note that the ellipsis \"[...]\" marks obliterated or untranslatable characters.\n\n\"Year (Inner Long Text)\" has three subsections; warning about unnatural events if the months are improperly calibrated, stressing the importance of a proper calendar for an auspicious year from the gods, and cautioning people to respectfully sacrifice to the gods.\n\"Seasons (Inner Short Text)\" also has three subsections; describing how the gods separated heaven and earth and determined the four seasons, Yandi and Zhu Rong supported the heavens with five pillars of different colors, and Gong Gong divided time into periods, days, months, and years.\n\nThis \"stepped\" refers to ritual \"Yubu\" (禹步 \"Steps of Yu\", later known as \"bugang\" 步罡 \"walking the guideline\", Andersen 1989). Yu was the legendary founder of the Xia dynasty who controlled the Great Flood's waters and regulated the four seasons.\n\n\"Months (Surrounding Text)\" in the margins has twelve subsections that picture the monthly gods and list their calendrical rules. \nSeveral Chinese classics are comparable with the Chu Silk Manuscript. For instance, Major (1999:125) says it \"anticipates later ritual and astrological calendars, such as the \"Yueling\" [月令 \"Monthly Commands\"] of the \"Lüshi chunqiu\", in emphasizing the importance of performing certain actions and refraining from others in each month of the year in order to ensure safety and good fortune for the community as a whole.\"\n\nIn addition, Jao (1985, Lawton 1991:176) compares the manuscript with both the \"Tianguan shu\" (天官書 \"Essay on Astronomy\") in the \"Records of the Grand Historian\" and the bamboo \"Rishu\" (日書 \"Almanacs\") from the Chu burials at Yunmeng and the Qin burials at Tianshui.\n\nWithin traditional terms for Chinese schools of thought, Li Ling (1985, Lawton 1991:179) classifies the manuscript as the oldest example of \"shushu\" (數術 \"numerals and skills\"). \"\"Shushu\" not only includes astronomy and the calendrical and mathematical sciences, but also the various related areas in divination (based on deduction) and physiognomy (based on observation).\" \"Shushu\" contrasted with \"fangji\" (方技 \"prescriptions and techniques\"), which included Traditional Chinese medicine, neidan, Dao yin, etc., and both specialties were associated with \"fangshi\" \"diviners; magicians\". \"\"Shushu\" is primarily related to the universal order (hence, the cosmos), while \"fangji\" is primarily related to the human order (hence, the human body).\" Li concludes the Chu Silk Manuscript's cosmic model was based on \"liuren\" (六壬) or \"Da Liu Ren\" (大六壬) calendrical astrology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57062107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57062107", "title": "Clan Baird Society Worldwide", "text": "Clan Baird Society Worldwide\n\nClan Baird Society Worldwide is the oldest and largest modern Clan Baird group. It was established (1963) by Byron Owsley Baird and his wife Frances, in Florida, Unites States, and is a worldwide organization with members in Australia, Scotland, England, New Zealand, Canada, Spain, and the U.S.. The Society is governed by a Board of Directors, Chieftains, and Honorary Chieftains, since Clan Baird is armigerous.\nThe main objective of the group is to bring together Bairds of the world, especially those who were a part of the diaspora after each Scottish Rebellion and the Highland Clearances, with those who remained in Scotland.\n\nThe Society holds biennial meetings in Scotland and the United States, the next cycle will be in 2019. The 2017 meetings were held in Aboyne, Aberdeenshire, Scotland at the Boat Inn, and at the Grandfather Mountain Highland Games, in Linville, North Carolina.\n\nBaird Archaeological and Historical Initiative (BAHI) is one of the most important aspects of the Society. The BAHI sponsors projects in history and antiquities each year. In 2017, the sponsored project was St. Drostan's Pilgrimage Walk, New Aberdour, Aberdeenshire, Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "50593281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50593281", "title": "Cumberland and Westmorland Antiquarian and Archaeological Society", "text": "Cumberland and Westmorland Antiquarian and Archaeological Society\n\nThe Cumberland and Westmorland Antiquarian and Archaeological Society, founded in 1866, is a local historical, antiquarian, archaeological and text publication society and registered charity covering the modern county of Cumbria.\n\nThe society exists to \"promote, encourage, foster\" the combined studies of genealogy, history, custom and archaeology, within the boundaries of the non-metropolitan county of Cumbria (which, as well as the two titular historic counties of Cumberland and Westmorland, includes elements of historic Yorkshire and Lancashire).\n\nThe society was established in Penrith, Cumbria on 11 September 1866, with \"five business and professional men from both counties\" as founder-members. The then Earl of Lonsdale was appointed honorary president. One of the society's first official acts was to campaign for the protection of the Dunmail Raise cairn, and to organise an archaeological dig on the Low Borrow Bridge Roman fort, near Tebay. Membership rose to 115 by 1866 (with around a quarter being clergymen), and \"includ[ed] three ladies\". The society returned to the Low Borrow Bridge site, by then a scheduled monument, in 2011 and discovered further evidence as to the size of the camp, while in 2015 it was a joint funder of work into a dendrochronological dating on Kendal's fourteenth-century Castle dairy.\n\nA publishing arm was created in 1877, and by 2015 was responsible for publishing its peer-reviewed journal \"The Transactions\" of the society, a triannual newsletter, and various dedicated book series for specific areas of interest (for example, the Extra Series, and those for Records, Research, and Tracts).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13187562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13187562", "title": "Daiji (era)", "text": "Daiji (era)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15683942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15683942", "title": "Danièle Djamila Amrane-Minne", "text": "Danièle Djamila Amrane-Minne\n\nDanièle Minne (13 August 1939 at Neuilly-sur-Seine – February 2017) was one of the few European girls convicted for assisting the FLN during the Algerian War. Her mother Jacqueline Netter-Minne-Guerroudj and her stepfather Abdelkader Guerroudj, were both condemned to death as accomplices of Fernand Iveton, the only European who was guillotined for his part in the Algerian revolt. Her mother was never executed, partly due to a campaign on her behalf conducted by Simone de Beauvoir; her stepfather was also freed.\n\nDanièle Minne joined the struggle when she was 17, going underground under the nom de guerre of \"Djamila\". Minne was considered a women combatant in the Algerian War known as a fidayat. She \"planted at least two bombs during the Battle of Algeris, and joined the maquis in wilaya 3 in 1957\". A historian, Alistair Horne, described one of Minne's missions: \"The targets were the Otomatic, a favourite students's bar on the Rue Michelet; the Cafeteria opposite (second time over) and the Coq-Hardi, a popular brasserie…placed in the ladies' lavatory, Daniéle Minne's bomb in the Otomatic seriously injured a young girl and several others\".Arrested and jailed in December 1956, she was sentenced, on 4 December 1957, to 7 years in prison by a juvenile tribunal.\n\nFreed after independence in 1962, she wrote a PhD dissertation on the participation of Algerian women in the war, based on interviews with eighty-eight women between 1978 and 1986; the dissertation was later published as a book, \"Des femmes dans la guerre d’Algérie\" (Karthala, Paris). The book was the basis for the film \"Algeria: Women at War\" by Parminder Vir.\n\nDanièle Minne became Djamila Amrane by marriage in 1964. She later worked at the University of Algiers but, by 1999, was a professor of history and feminist studies at the University of Toulouse.\n\nAmrane's \"Des femmes dans la guerre d'Algérie\", \"remains the major historical study on women's participation in the Algerian War\" and identifies not only why women were involved in the war, but the various roles of women combatants and their contributions to the FLN. Her research is based mainly on interviews with former FLN women activists and consists of \"eighty-eight interviews Algerian women combatants\". As a militant herself, Minne \"was in a privileged position to conduct person interviews that probe the intimate experiences of militant women\". However, it is also clear that as a former militant her work has been \"influenced by her reconstruction and understanding of her own role during the war\".\n\nMinne limits herself as a historian by making it clear through her cited testimony that women had indeed been tortured but chose to leave much unsaid in this regard. The rationale behind this was, \"given the trauma inflicted upon torture victims, she did not feel that she could interview her subjects about their ordeal. In her view, their silence proved their wish to forget a traumatic episode\". In this sense, Minne's \"Des femmes dans la guerra d'Algérie\" \"breaks the silence surrounding women's participation in the war, yet contributes to the silence concerning torture and its psychological consequences\" that would last for decades after Algeria's independence. It would not be until a decade later that the memoir of Louisette Ighilariz would come to light, thus revealing in more detail the nature of torture during the Algerian War.\n\nAmrane also completed important research on the estimate of women who had participated in the Algerian War by using the register of the Ministry of Mujahidin. She concluded that \"there were 10,949 FLN-ALN female activists; 3.10 percent of the total number of FLN-ALN members\".\n\nWomen and Politics in Algeria from the War of Independence to Our Day Research in African Literatures 30.3 (1999) 62-77\n"}
{"id": "49326236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49326236", "title": "Dublin Rising 1916-2016", "text": "Dublin Rising 1916-2016\n\nDublin Rising 1916-2016 is a website celebrating the 100 year anniversary of the 1916 Easter Rising which took place in Dublin, Ireland in Easter of 1916. The website tours the streets of Dublin, while allowing the user to interact with statements and photographs. It is narrated by the Dublin actor Colin Farrell while guiding the user to various important buildings and events in the rising of the Irish republic.\n\nLaunched on January 12, 2016 by the Taoiseach Enda Kenny and the Minister for Arts, Heritage and the Gaeltacht Heather Humphreys, the website has received great media attention with the aim to teach the future generations how Ireland fought for their independence.\n"}
{"id": "573646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573646", "title": "Early Buddhist schools", "text": "Early Buddhist schools\n\nThe early Buddhist schools are those schools into which the Buddhist monastic saṅgha initially split, due originally to differences in vinaya and later also due to doctrinal differences and geographical separation of groups of monks.\n\nThe original saṅgha split into the first early schools (generally believed to be the Sthavira nikāya and the Mahāsāṃghika) a significant number of years after the passing away of Gautama Buddha. According to scholar Collett Cox \"most scholars would agree that even though the roots of the earliest recognized groups predate Aśoka, their actual separation did not occur until after his death.\" Later, these first early schools split into further divisions such as the Sarvāstivādins and the Dharmaguptakas, and ended up numbering, traditionally, about 18 or 20 schools. In fact, there are several overlapping lists of 18 schools preserved in the Buddhist tradition, totaling about twice as many, though some may be alternative names. It is thought likely that the number is merely conventional.\n\nThe textual material shared by the early schools is often termed the Early Buddhist Texts and these are an important source for understanding their doctrinal similarities and differences. \n\nAccording to the scriptures (\"Cullavagga\" XI.1 ff), three months after the passing of Gautama Buddha, the first council was held at Rajagaha by some of his disciples who had attained arahantship. At this point, Theravāda tradition maintains that no conflict about what the Buddha taught occurred; the teachings were divided into various parts and each was assigned to an elder and his pupils to commit to memory.\n\nThe accounts of the council in the scriptures of the schools differ as to what was actually recited there. Purāṇa is recorded as having said: \"Your reverences, well chanted by the elders are the Dhamma and Vinaya, but in that way that I heard it in the Lord's presence, that I received it in his presence, in that same way will I bear it in mind.\" [\"Vinaya-pitaka\": \"Cullavagga\" XI:1:11].\n\nSome scholars deny that the first council actually took place.\n\nThe Second Buddhist council took place approximately one hundred years after Gautama Buddha's parinirvāṇa. Virtually all scholars agree that the second council was a historical event. Traditions regarding the Second Council are confusing and ambiguous, but it is agreed that the overall result was the first schism in the sangha, between the Sthavira nikāya and the Mahāsāṃghikas, although it is not agreed upon by all what the cause of this split was.\n\nThe textual sources agree that the first split was between the Sthaviravāda and the Mahāsāṃghika. However, after this initial division, more were to follow. Some modern scholars argue that the first split occurred in the intervening period between the second and third councils, and was probably about monastic discipline. However, only two ancient sources (the Dīpavaṃsa and Bhavya's third list) place the first schism before Aśoka, and none attribute the schism to a dispute on Vinaya practice.\n\nTradition largely holds that Buddhism split into 18 schools, but different sources give different lists of them, and scholars conclude that the number is merely conventional.\n\nTheravādin sources state that, in the 3rd century BCE, a third council was convened under the patronage of Aśoka, but no mention of this council is found in other sources. Some scholars argue that there are certain implausible features of the Theravādin account which imply that the third council was ahistorical. The remainder consider it a purely Theravāda-Vibhajjavāda council. It is generally accepted, however, that one or several disputes did occur during Aśoka's reign, involving both doctrinal and disciplinary (\"vinaya\") matters, although these may have been too informal to be called a \"council\". The Sthavira school had, by the time of Aśoka, divided into three sub-schools, doctrinally speaking, but these did not become separate monastic orders until later.\n\nAccording to the Theravādin account, this council was convened primarily for the purpose of establishing an official orthodoxy. At the council, small groups raised questions about the specifics of the \"vinaya\" and the interpretation of doctrine. The chairman of the council, Moggaliputta Tissa, compiled a book, the \"Kathavatthu\", which was meant to refute these arguments. The council sided with Moggaliputta and his version of Buddhism as orthodox; it was then adopted by Emperor Aśoka as his empire's official religion. In Pali, this school of thought was termed Vibhajjavāda, literally \"thesis of [those who make] a distinction\".\n\nThe distinction involved was as to the existence of phenomena (\"dhamma\"s) in the past, future and present. The version of the scriptures that had been established at the third council, including the \"Vinaya\", \"Sutta\" and the \"Abhidhamma Pitaka\"s (collectively known as the \"Tripiṭaka\"), was taken to Sri Lanka by Emperor Aśoka's son, the Venerable Mahinda. There it was eventually committed to writing in the Pali language. The Pāli Canon remains the most complete set of surviving \"Nikāya\" scriptures, although the greater part of the Sarvāstivādin canon also survives in Chinese translation, some parts exist in Tibetan translations, and some fragments exist in Sanskrit manuscripts, while parts of various canons (sometimes unidentified), exist in Chinese and fragments in other Indian dialects.\n\nWhatever might be the truth behind the Theravādin account, it was around the time of Aśoka that further divisions began to occur within the Buddhist movement and a number of additional schools emerged, including the Sarvāstivāda and the Saṃmitīya. All of these early schools of Nikāya Buddhism eventually came to be known collectively as \"the eighteen schools\" in later sources. Unfortunately, with the exception of the Theravāda, none of these early schools survived beyond the late medieval period by which time several were already long extinct, although a considerable amount of the canonical literature of some of these schools has survived, mainly in Chinese translation. Moreover, the origins of specifically Mahāyāna doctrines may be discerned in the teachings of some of these early schools, in particular in the Mahāsānghika and the Sarvāstivāda.\n\nDuring and after the third council, elements of the Sthavira group called themselves Vibhajjavādins. One part of this group was transmitted to Sri Lanka and to certain areas of southern India, such as Vanavasi in the south-west and the Kañci region in the south-east. This group later ceased to refer to themselves specifically as \"Vibhajjavādins\", but reverted to calling themselves \"Theriyas\", after the earlier Theras (Sthaviras). Still later, at some point prior to the Dipavamsa (4th century), the Pali name Theravāda was adopted and has remained in use ever since for this group.\n\nThe Pudgalavādins were also known as Vatsiputrīyas after their putative founder. Later this group became known as the Sammitīya school after one of its subdivisions. It died out around the 9th or 10th century CE. Nevertheless, during most of the early medieval period, the Sammitīya school was numerically the largest Buddhist group in India, with more followers than all the other schools combined. The Sarvāstivādin school was most prominent in the north-west of India and provided some of the doctrines that would later be adopted by the Mahāyāna. Another group linked to Sarvāstivāda was the Sautrāntika school, which only recognized the authority of the sutras and rejected the abhidharma transmitted and taught by the Vaibhāṣika wing of Sarvāstivāda. Based on textual considerations, it has been suggested that the Sautrāntikas were actually adherents of Mūlasarvāstivāda. The relation between Sarvāstivāda and the Mūlasarvāstivāda, however, is unclear.\n\nEtienne Lamotte divided the mainstream Buddhist schools into three main doctrinal types:\n\n\nBetween the 1st century BCE and the 1st century CE, the terms \"Mahāyāna\" and \"Hīnayāna\" were first used in writing, in, for example, the \"Lotus Sutra\".\n\nAlthough the various early schools of Buddhism are sometimes loosely classified as \"Hīnayāna\" in modern times, this is not necessarily accurate. According to Jan Nattier, Mahāyāna never referred to a separate sect of Buddhism (Skt. \"nikāya\"), but rather to the set of ideals and doctrines for bodhisattvas. Paul Williams has also noted that the Mahāyāna never had nor ever attempted to have a separate vinaya or ordination lineage from the early Buddhist schools, and therefore each bhikṣu or bhikṣuṇī adhering to the Mahāyāna formally belonged to an early school.\n\nMembership in these \"nikāyas\", or monastic sects, continues today with the Dharmaguptaka nikāya in East Asia, and the Mūlasarvāstivāda nikāya in Tibetan Buddhism. Therefore, Mahāyāna was never a separate rival sect of the early schools. Paul Harrison clarifies that while Mahāyāna monastics belonged to a nikāya, not all members of a nikāya were Mahāyānists. From Chinese monks visiting India, we now know that both Mahāyāna and non-Mahāyāna monks in India often lived in the same monasteries side by side. Additionally, Isabella Onians notes that Mahāyāna works rarely used the term \"Hīnayāna\", typically using the term \"Śrāvakayāna\" instead.\n\nThe Chinese Buddhist monk and pilgrim Yijing wrote about relationship between the various \"vehicles\" and the early Buddhist schools in India. He wrote, \"There exist in the West numerous subdivisions of the schools which have different origins, but there are only four principal schools of continuous tradition.\" These schools are namely the Mahāsāṃghika nikāya, Sthavira, Mūlasarvāstivāda and Saṃmitīya nikāyas. Explaining their doctrinal affiliations, he then writes, \"Which of the four schools should be grouped with the Mahāyāna or with the Hīnayāna is not determined.\" That is to say, there was no simple correspondence between a Buddhist monastic sect, and whether its members learn \"Hīnayāna\" or \"Mahāyāna\" teachings.\n\nDuring the first millennium, monks from China such as Faxian, Xuanzang, and Yijing made pilgrimages to India and wrote accounts of their travels when they returned home. These Chinese travel records constitute extremely valuable sources of information concerning the state of Buddhism in India during the early medieval period.\n\nBy the time the Chinese pilgrims Xuanzang and Yijing visited India, there were five early Buddhist schools that they mentioned far more frequently than others. They commented that the Sarvāstivāda/Mūlasarvāstivāda, Mahāsāṃghika, and Saṃmitīya were the principal early Buddhist schools still extant in India, along with the Sthavira sect. The Dharmaguptakas continued to be found in Gandhāra and Central Asia, along the Silk Road.\n\nIt is commonly said that there were eighteen schools of Buddhism in this period. What this actually means is more subtle. First, although the word \"school\" is used, there was not yet an institutional split in the \"saṅgha\". The Chinese traveler Xuanzang observed even when the Mahāyāna were beginning to emerge from this era that monks of different schools would live side by side in dormitories and attend the same lectures. Only the books that they read were different. Secondly, no historical sources can agree what the names of these \"eighteen schools\" were. The origin of this saying is therefore unclear.\n\nWhat follows are the lists given by each of the different sources.\n\nThis list was taken from the Sri Lankan chronicles, \"Dipavamsa\" (3rd-4th century CE) and \"Mahavamsa\" (5th century CE).\n\n\nIn addition, the Dipavamsa lists the following six schools without identifying the schools from which they arose:\n\nThis list was taken from \"Samayabhedo Paracana Cakra\", the author of which was Vasumitra (died 124 BCE), a Sarvāstivādin monk.\n\n\nVinitadeva (c. 645-715) was a Mūlasarvāstivādin monk.\n\n\nThe \"Śāriputraparipṛcchā\" is a Mahāsāṃghikan history.\n\n\nSthaviravāda () was split into 11 sects. These were: Sarvāstivādin (), Haimavata (), Vatsīputrīya (), Dharmottara (), Bhadrayānīya (), Sammitīya (), Channagirika (), Mahisasaka (), Dharmaguptaka (), Kāśyapīya (), Sautrāntika ().\n\n\nMahāsāṃghika () was split into 9 sects. There were: Ekavyahārika (), Lokottaravādin (), Gokulika (), Bahuśrutīya (), Prajñaptivāda (), Caitika (), Aparaśaila (), and Uttaraśaila ().\n\n\nNoted Canadian Buddhist scholar A.K. Warder (University of Toronto) identifies the following eighteen early Buddhist schools (in approximate chronological order): Sthaviravada, Mahasamghika, Vatsiputriya, Ekavyavaharika, Gokulika (a.k.a. Kukkutika, etc.), Sarvastivada, Lokottaravada, Dharmottariya, Bhadrayaniya, Sammitiya, Sannagarika, Bahusrutiya, Prajnaptivada, Mahisasaka, Haimavata (a.k.a. Kasyapiya), Dharmaguptaka, Caitika, and the Apara and Uttara (Purva) Saila. Warder says that these were the early Buddhist schools as of circa 50 BCE, about the same time that the Pali Canon was first committed to writing and the presumptive origin date of the Theravada sect, though the term 'Theravada' was not used before the fourth century CE (see Ajahn Sucitto, \"What Is Theravada\" (2012); see also A.K. Warder, \"Indian Buddhism,\" 3rd rev. ed. (Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass, 2000), chapters 8 and 9).\n\nThe Theravāda School of Sri Lanka, Burma, and Thailand is descended from the Sthaviravādin and (more specifically) the Vibhajjavāda School. It underwent two more changes of name. In the Indian accounts it is sometimes called the \"Tāmraparnīya\" (translation: Sri Lankan lineage), but there is no indication that this referred to any change in doctrine or scripture, while it is very obvious that it refers to geographical location. At some point prior to the \"Dipavamsa\" (4th century) the name was changed to \"Theravāda\", probably to reemphasize the relationship to the original \"Sthaviravāda\", which is the Sanskrit version of the Pāli term \"Theravāda\".\n\nThe Theravāda school is the only remaining school which is exclusively aligned with the philosophic outlook of the early schools. However, significant variation is found between the various Theravādin communities, usually concerning the strictness of practice of \"vinaya\" and the attitude one has towards \"abhidhamma\". Both of these, however, are aspects of the Vibhajjavādin recension of the \"Tipiṭaka\", and the variation between current Theravāda groups is mainly a reflection of accent or emphasis, not content of the \"Tipiṭaka\" or the commentaries. The \"Tipiṭaka\" of the Theravāda and the main body of its commentaries are believed to come from (or be heavily influenced by) the Sthaviravādins and especially the subsequent Vibhajjavādins.\n\nThe legacies of other early schools are preserved in various Mahāyāna traditions. All of the schools of Tibetan Buddhism use a Mūlasarvāstivāda \"vinaya\" and study the Sarvāstivādin \"abhidharma\", supplemented with Mahāyāna and Vajrayāna texts. Chinese schools use the \"vinaya\" from the Dharmagupta school, and have versions of those of other schools also. Fragments of the canon of texts from these schools also survive such as the \"Mahāvastu\" of the Mahāsānghika School.\n\nDiscussion on the difference in their views includes Kathāvatthu and the Chinese or Tibetan translation of Samayabhedoparacanacakra (), Abhidharmamahāvibhāsā-śāstra (), Abhidharmakośa-śāstra () Abhidharma-nyāyānusāra (), Abhidharma-kośa-samaya-pradīpikā () etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25134387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25134387", "title": "Editions Victor Gadoury", "text": "Editions Victor Gadoury\n\nThe Editions Victor Gadoury is a Monaco publishing company specialized in numismatics and selling coin catalogs.\n\nThe Editions Victor Gadoury was founded in Baden-Baden in 1972. Victor Gadoury was a member of a division within the Canadian Army that was stationed in Germany. After his discharge he decided to remain in Germany and become a numismatic.\n\nIn 1973 Victor Gadoury founded the publishing house Editions Victor Gadoury where he published the first edition of \"Monnaies Françaises\" in 1973, gathering knowledge on all French coins from 1789 until the present. Since then, the book has been published every two years; \"Monnaies Françaises\" 2009 was its 19th edition.\n\nIn 1978 Victor Gadoury moved his publishing house Editions Victor Gadoury to the Principality of Monaco, at the end of the Boulevard d'Italie, moving next to the Boulevard de Moulins before returning to the Boulevard d'Italie.\n\nIn 1994, the publishing house Editions Victor Gadoury was acquired by two Italian numismatics, Vescovi and Pastrone, and since November 2001 Editions Victor Gadoury has been managed solely by Francesco Pastrone in Monaco.\n\n"}
{"id": "53754215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53754215", "title": "Gary Denniss", "text": "Gary Denniss\n\nFrank Garfield Denniss is a Canadian historian, newspaper columnist, retired public school teacher, speaker and ordained minister born in 1944 in Bracebridge, Ontario \"Gary\" Denniss is the author of 39 books on the history of the District Municipality of Muskoka, (Muskoka District, at the southern edge of the Canadian Shield, stretches north from the Severn River through rocky and forested lake land, bounded by Georgian Bay on the west and Algonquin Park to the east, connecting to twin district Parry Sound.) \n\nGary Denniss was born at Bracebridge Memorial Hospital on May 31, 1944 to Frank Edwin Denniss II (1908–2003), and Jesse Evelyn Arnott (1917–1991). Mr. Denniss taught in the public schools in the Bracebridge, Ontario area (Wah Wah Taysee, Cochrane, Bracebridge, Vankoughnet, Huntsville, and Macaulay) until his retirement in 1998. He continues to live in Bracebridge, where he writes, teaches piano, and officiates at weddings and funerals. Since 1991, Mr. Denniss has held a leadership role in the maintenance of Bracebridge veterans' gravesites and Langford Cemetery, Macaulay Township.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5258943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5258943", "title": "Historia Hierosolymitana (Robert the Monk)", "text": "Historia Hierosolymitana (Robert the Monk)\n\nHistoria Hierosolymitana is a chronicle of the First Crusade by one Robert the Monk (\"Robertus Monachus\"), written between c. 1107–1120. \n\nRobert has been identified with a prior of Senuc and former abbot of Saint-Remi, who lived c. 1055 – 1122; hence he is also referred to as \"Robert of Reims\" or \"Robert of Saint-Remi\" (\"Robertus Remensis\").\nRobert asserts in his prologue that he had been present at the Council of Clermont of 1095, which makes his account of Pope Urban II's speech that of an eye-witness, even though written from memory, twelve or more years later. \nOutside of this part, however, the author proposes not to write about his own observations but as a chronicler, having agree to rewrite, at the request of his abbot, the \"Gesta Francorum\", an account written by a soldier of Bohemond I of Antioch, in a less \"rustic\" style.\n\nRobert's chronicle contains an account of Pope Urban II's speech at the Council of Clermont of November 1095, the call to arms for the First Crusade. This speech is also recorded by another eye-witness, Fulcher of Chartres, and most historians tend to consider Fulcher's version as closer to the original speech, while Robert's version is seen as embellished and more \"dramatic\", and in parts informed by the later success of the First Crusade.\nBoth Robert's and Fulcher's account of the speech include a description of the terrible plight of the Christians in the East under the recent conquests of the Turks and the promise of remission of sins for those who go to their aid. Robert's version, however, includes a more vivid description of the atrocities committed by the conquerors, describing the desecration of churches, the forced circumcision, beheading and torture by disemboweling of Christian men and alluding to grievous rape of Christian women.\nAccording to Robert, Urban addressed his call explicitly to the race of the Franks, of which he was himself a member, invoking the valour of their ancestors, \"the glory and greatness of king Charles the Great, and of his son Louis\", culminating in \"Oh, most valiant soldiers and descendants of invincible ancestors, be not degenerate, but recall the valour of your progenitors.\"\nRobert's version also describes the spontaneous reaction of Urban's audience, bursting into cries of \"Deus vult\" (\"God wills it\"); this motto and battle cry is also found in the \"Gesta Francorum\", there in the more \"vulgar\" or vernacular form of \"Deus le volt\".\nIn a further element not found in Fulcher's account, and perhaps inspired after the fact by the failure of the People's Crusade, Urban warns\nthat the expedition is not commanded or advised for the old or feeble, those unfit for bearing arms, or for women, but for experienced soldiers, that clergy should only take part with the consent of their bishop and laymen only with the blessing of their priest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46342963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46342963", "title": "J. J. G. Alexander", "text": "J. J. G. Alexander\n\nJonathan James Graham Alexander (born 1935), known in print as J. J. G. Alexander, is a medievalist and expert on manuscripts, \"one of the most profound and wide-ranging of all historians of illuminated manuscripts\".\n\nAlexander edited the \"Survey of Manuscripts Illuminated in the British Isles\" from 1975 onwards. In 1988 he became Sherman Fairchild Professor of Fine Arts at the New York University Institute of Fine Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "40327020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40327020", "title": "Jaroslav Miller", "text": "Jaroslav Miller\n\nProf. Mgr. Jaroslav Miller, M.A., Ph.D. (born 8 January 1971) is a professor of history and rector at Palacký University in Olomouc. His focus is urban studies, the history of political thought and more recently also issues related to Czech and Slovak exile.\n\nMiller was born in Šumperk. He studied history and philology at Palacký University in Olomouc, Central European University in Budapest, and Lady Margaret Hall at the University of Oxford. His teachers included Josef Jařab, Ralf Dahrendorf, Stephen Greenblatt and Robert John Weston Evans.\n\nHe has taken part in many long-term fellowships at universities and scientific institutions in Canada, Hungary, United States, Great Britain, Germany and Australia. He was twice appointed a fellow of the German scientific Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (2006 in Marburg, 2010 in Münster) and the American Andrew W. Mellon Foundation (2004, 2010 Wolfenbüttel). In 2008 he was a Fulbright Fellow at Georgia College and State University. During the 2010-2011 academic year, he held a Guest Professorship at the University of Western Australia in Perth. In 2012, the US Ambassador appointed him a Fulbright Program Ambassador to the Czech Republic. In the same year he was appointed professor of history.\n\nIn 2008 the British publishing house Ashgate published his monograph \"Urban Societies in East-Central Europe, 1500–1700\". In 2010 he published in New York and Budapest (together with László Kontler) the monograph \"Friars, Nobles and Burghers – Sermons, Images and Prints: Studies of Culture and Society in Early-Modern Europe\".\n\nOn 16 October 2013 he was elected as the Rector of Palacký University for the period 2014-2018. His term began on 1 February 2014.\n\nMiller has received several academic and scientific awards. In 2005 he was awarded the \"R. John Rath Prize for Best Study in Habsburg History\" or \"Best Urban History Monograph Award\".\n\nMiller's monographic scientific works include: \n\n\nThe text is an English translation of the original Czech version.\n"}
{"id": "10665818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10665818", "title": "Jewish courtyard", "text": "Jewish courtyard\n\nSpeyer in Germany was the hometown of one of the most important Jewish communities in Middle Ages in northern Europe. Bishop Hutzmann and Salic emperor Henry IV encouraged Jewish refugees from Mainz to the foundation of a Jewish community by facilitating them.(see:History of the Jews in Speyer)\n\nThis community existed until the beginning of the 16th century. The exact time and circumstances of the destruction are unknown.\n\nThe Jewish courtyard was the central area of the Jewish quarter in Speyer and consisted of the synagogues for men and women as well as the Mikvah, for ritual washing.\n\nThe first documented mention of this Mikvah was in 1126 and its subterranean components have been nearly unmodified for centuries.\n"}
{"id": "1204680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1204680", "title": "John Bowman (broadcaster)", "text": "John Bowman (broadcaster)\n\nJohn Bowman (born July 1942) is an Irish historian and a long-standing broadcaster and presenter of current affairs and political programmes with Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ). He chaired the audience-participation political programme \"Questions and Answers\" on RTÉ One for 21 years. He is the father of comedian and journalist Abie Philbin Bowman and the broadcaster and journalist Jonathan Philbin Bowman.\n\nBowman was brought up in Ballsbridge in south Dublin. His father worked for Great Southern Railways (later CIÉ) and his mother was a nurse, originally from Co. Monaghan. Bowman was educated at Belvedere College and Trinity College Dublin where he received bachelor's degree in history and political science in 1970 and a PhD in political science in 1980. He joined Radio Éireann in 1962, later becoming the presenter and commentator on numerous current affairs programmes, as well as an analyst of political developments and interviewer of politicians on radio and later on television. In the 1980s, he presented the current affairs programme \"Today Tonight\", the precursor to \"Prime Time\".\n\nBowman has won two Jacob's Awards for his radio broadcasting, in 2016 and 2013 the latter for his presentation of the current affairs programme, \"Day by Day\". In April 2008, he commented on RTÉ television coverage of the state funeral of former President of Ireland Patrick Hillery.\n\nBowman chaired the audience-participation political programme \"Questions and Answers\" on RTÉ One television for 21 years, the final edition airing on 29 June 2009. He is the presenter of \"Bowman Sunday Morning\" (previously \"Bowman Saturday\") on radio, a weekly compilation of material from broadcasting archives at home and abroad. He has also co-anchored RTÉ election coverage since the early 1980s.\n\nIn May 2011, he fronted RTÉ television coverage of Queen Elizabeth II's visit to the Republic of Ireland.\n\nBowman wrote a history of RTÉ Television called \"Window and Mirror. RTÉ Television: 1961-2011\". It was launched by Taoiseach Enda Kenny at the National Museum in Dublin on 23 November 2011.\n\nBowman served a two year term as was President of The Irish Association for Cultural, Economic and Social Relations from 1991 and of Comhar, an environmental pressure group, from 1999 until 2004 .\n\nHe is married to psychiatrist Eimer Philbin Bowman and they have had four children: Jonathan, Emma, Abie and Daniel. His eldest son Jonathan Philbin Bowman, a journalist, television and radio presenter, died in an accident in March 2000. His daughter Emma Philbin Bowman works in Dublin as a psychotherapist . His middle son Abie Philbin Bowman is a columnist for The Dubliner magazine and a stand up comedian, while in 2005 his youngest son Daniel initiated \"Be Not Afraid\"; a charity wristband campaign which raised over €80,000 in aid of \"Turning the Tide of Suicide\" and the Irish Red Cross and later set up a youth-marketing firm, Spark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35950369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35950369", "title": "John Collingwood Bruce", "text": "John Collingwood Bruce\n\nThe Reverend John Collingwood Bruce, FSA (1805–1892) was an English nonconformist minister and schoolmaster, known as a historian of Tyneside and author. He co-operated with John Stokoe in compiling the major song collection \"Northumbrian Minstrelsy\" published in 1882\n\nThe eldest son of John Bruce of Newcastle, he was educated at the Percy Street Academy, a well-known school in Newcastle kept by his father, and afterwards at Mill Hill School, Middlesex. He entered Glasgow University in 1821, graduated M.A. in 1826, and became hon. LL.D. in 1853.\n\nIn early life, Bruce studied for the Presbyterian ministry, but never sought a call from any congregation. In 1831, he began to assist in the management of his father's school, of which he became sole proprietor in 1834, when his father died. He retired from the school, after a successful career, in 1863.\n\nBruce's main interest was in the history of Britain, in particular North East England and more specifically Roman Britain and Hadrian's Wall. His books used a numbering system for the structures of the Wall, and by about 1930 it had become standard, using the milecastle located to the east. Examples are T33a or Turret 26B (Brunton): (see Numbering system and naming. His interest in music was largely historical, and in editing the \"Northumbrian Minstrelsy\" he co-operated with John Stokoe .\n\nThe article Music of Northumbria credits Stokoe with copying out, in 1850, some of the tunes from John Smith's tunebook of 1750, a book now long lost, and the pair creating this comprehensive collection of old Northern Songs. The work was on behalf of, and published by, the Ancient Melodies Committee of the Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle upon Tyne, of which Bruce was an active committee member.\n\nBruce gave the Rhind Lectures in 1883, on the Roman occupation of Britain.\n\nHis father, also John, had been a schoolteacher for over 40 years, first in Alnwick, then in Newcastle. He was an author and had written books, including a work on Geography. He died at his home in Percy Street, Newcastle on 31 October 1834 aged 60 years. \nBruce married in 1833 Charlotte, daughter of T. Gainsford of Gerrard's Cross, Buckinghamshire, and had two sons and two daughters. The eldest son. Sir Gainsford Bruce, became one of the judges of the High Court of Justice.\n\nJohn Collingwood Bruce died on 5 April 1892; his wife Charlotte died in 1893, and their daughter Frances died aged 18 months on 17 December 1839. They are buried in the family grave in Jesmond Old Cemetery. Other children include Sir Gainsford Bruce. \nA photograph of the headstone can be seen – (courtesy of Steve Ellwood, Whitley Bay).\n\nA sculptured marble sarcophagus within St Nicholas' Cathedral shows the carved body of J. C. Bruce lying with his feet on a copy of his book \"Hadrian's Wall\".\n\n\nThe article Music of Northumbria, credits John Stokoe with copying out, in 1850, some of the tunes from John Smith's tunebook of 1750, a book now long lost, and, together with John Collingwood Bruce, creating this comprehensive collection of old Northern Songs. The work was on behalf of, and published by, the Ancient Melodies Committee of the Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle upon Tyne.\n\n\n\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "36833384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36833384", "title": "János Jacobinus", "text": "János Jacobinus\n\nJános Jacobinus (1574 – 17 July 1603) was a Hungarian politician and historian of Saxon origin in the Principality of Transylvania, who served as Chancellor of Transylvania for a short time in 1603.\n\nHe was the son of Bernát Jacobinus, a prestigious citizen of Kolozsvár (today: \"Cluj-Napoca, Romania\"). After finishing studies, he became notary of his birthplace between 1592 and 1598. He participated in the Wallachian Campaign of 1595 against Sinan Pasha. He described the events in detail and reliability. He served as secretary for Princes Sigismund Báthory, Andrew Báthory and Michael the Brave since May 1598.\n\nIn September 1600, he defected from Michael to the insurgent nobles. He became the secretary of the Transylvanian Chancellery after Sigismund Báthory retake his throne. In this capacity, he, probably, controlled the domestic policy of Transylvania around that time, when the position of Chancellor remained vacant. He joined to Mózes Székely in April 1603 who appointed him as Chancellor. Several months later, he died in the battle of Brassó (today: \"Brașov, Romania\") along with his lord against Radu Şerban, ruler of Wallachia.\n\nFor a short time, he was the owner of the Wolphard–Kakas House, an important Renaissance monument on the Main square of Kolozsvár. General István Csáky gave him the house for his services. However the original owner, István Kakas, a diplomat and traveler sued back that from Jacobinus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30951253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30951253", "title": "Ljubo Babić", "text": "Ljubo Babić\n\nLjubomir Tito Stjepan Babić (14 June 1890 – 14 May 1974) was a Yugoslav Croatian painter, graphic artist, theatrical set and costume designer, teacher, art historian, critic, and museum curator. As an artist, he worked in a variety of media including oils, tempera, watercolour, drawing, etching, and lithography. He was one of the most influential figures in the Zagreb art scene between the two world wars.\n\nHe collaborated with director Branko Gavella in creating a series of set designs for the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. In 1940 he became a full professor at the Academy of Fine Arts Zagreb. He held exhibitions at home and abroad and published many articles on art history and critiques of contemporary art events. He wrote and illustrated many books, worked on designs for posters, interiors and decorative arts objects.\n\nLjubomir Tito Stjepan Babić was born in Jastrebarsko on 14 June 1890, the son of Judge Antun Babić and Milka (née Kovačić), and nephew of the author Ljubo Babić (better known as Ksaver Šandor Gjalski). The Babić family had been raised to the nobility in 1716 by Charles VI Habsburg. The Babić family seat was Gredice near Zabok, which had been purchased by Babić's grandfather.\n\nFollowing his father's work transfers, young Ljubo attended elementary school in Slatina, Glina and Jastrebarsko. He attended high school in Bjelovar, with the final two years in the Donji Grad gymnasium in Zagreb. During that time, he attended private art school with Menci Clement Crnčić and Bela Čikoš Sesija, and took classes at the School of Arts and Crafts. After completing high school in 1908, at his father's encouragement he enrolled in the Faculty of Law at Zagreb University, but soon abandoned his studies for painting.\n\nThanks to a scholarship from Count Teodor Pejačević Babić was able to attend the Academy of Fine Arts, Munich where he studied painting with Angelo Jank (1910–11), and Franz von Stuck (1911–13). In Munich, he completed a course of artistic anatomy at the Medical School while also studying set design at the Künstlertheater. In 1913-14 he went on to complete his art studies in Paris, returning to his homeland at the beginning of the First World War.\n\nThere he opened a \"modern painting school\" in his studio, but soon afterwards accepted a teaching position at the School of Arts, (now the Academy of Fine Arts) where he became a full professor in 1940, working there for 45 years until he retired in 1961. During the 1930s, he visited other schools and institutes around Europe in order to learn from their experience and improve teaching at the Zagreb academy. In 1932, he graduated in art history from the Faculty of Philosophy, Zagreb University.\n\nIn addition to his painting and teaching careers, Ljubo Babić was the first curator of the Modern Gallery in Zagreb (1919) whose inaugural exhibition featured the previously unknown works of Josip Račić. He organized exhibitions of modern French and German Art in Zagreb, and an exhibition of medieval art from Yugoslavia in Paris in 1950. For many years he was the director of The Strossmayer Gallery of Old Masters (from 1947) responsible for organizing many important exhibitions.\n\nBabić was one of the organizers of the Croatian Spring Salon (1916), the Independent group of Croatian artists (1923), the Group of Three (1929), Group of Four (1928), the group of Croatian artists (1936) and Croatian artists (1939).\n\nLjubo Babić was elected as a Member of Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 1928, becoming a full member in 1950. He died in Zagreb on 14 May 1974.\n\nLjubo Babić was a central figure in the Croatian art scene in the period between the two world wars. His views provided a strong influence over the art of the time. His early work from Munich shows some poetic symbolism and art nouveau. In portraits, he soon began to depict the more psychological characteristics of his subject. From 1916, expressionistic ideas and themes appeared, and a move towards abstraction, resulting in some of his finest works. In November 1916, on the death of Emperor Francis Joseph, all the streets of Zagreb were dressed in black flags. Inspired by this image, Babić, then aged 26, painted the scene from the second floor window of his studio on Ilica Street. In the foreground is a long, torn black flag and behind it are ominous clouds, and below the people passing. Black Flag (\"crna zastava\") stands as one of his most memorable images.\n\nWriter Miroslav Krleža said of Babić - in the years between 1916 and 1922 - that he was strongly influenced by the time and by his own ideas. A strong influence on both was the poet Silvije Strahimir Kranjčević. Babić illustrated Kranjčević's \"Songs\" (\"Pjesme\", 1908) and many of the poet's themes entered Babić's own work. From the inspiration of the mountain Velebit as seen from Crnčić, Babić created one of his most successful series: \"View from the Sky\" (\"Pogled s neba\"), \"Aerial view\" (\"Arielov pogled\"). He would later be known as the father of modern landscape painting in Croatia.\n\nA journey to Spain in 1920 resulted in an expressive series of paintings, including the powerful black \"Fishermen\" (\"Ribere\"). This cycle of Spanish street scenes was well received and stands as a high point of Babić's own art and Croatian painting in general.\n\nAround 1930, Babić started a series of landscapes and people from around Croatia. He would travel south in the summer months, sketching scenes from Koločep and Pelješca, to Čiovo and Trogir (1930–1936). He was working on what he called \"native expression\", believing that the landscape, historical experience and folk art could reveal the characteristics of the people. Back in his studio, he created an impressive cycle of landscapes (the series Homeland, \"Rodni kraj\" 1933-1939). This series brings his art close to documentary work and Babić worked closely with Matica hrvatska on aspects of folk heritage and modern cultural and artistic issues.\n\nBabić was one of the creators of the golden years of Zagreb theatre life in the 1920s/30s. He made his debut as set designer in 1918, altogether creating about 180 designs (often also sketches for the costumes) for drama, comedy and operatic performances. His designs were always based on the logic of the stage events, and contributed greatly to the development of dramatic action. He was also the founder of the first artistic Puppet Theatre in Zagreb (1920), and his set designs for the Paris Expo in 1925, earned him the Grand Prix.\n\nIn addition to being a creative artist and designer, Babić was also an interpreter and popularizer of art: as an art writer and critic, as a lecturer, and as a museum curator. He was the most reliable interpreter of Croatian heritage in art museums and exhibitions between 1919-1948. He also created posters and some very successful books on art (1908–1960).\n\nBabić's literary output includes 20 books, brochures and special editions, around 400 articles in periodicals, many encyclopedia articles and several educational programs. In addition to educational and critic works, he left a number of travel and autobiographical texts. Babić's travelogue text New York \"skyline\" was included in an anthology America Spectrum from one hundred forty-one works of European writers and works (Spektrum America aus Werken hunderteinundvierzig europäischer Dichter und Werken), Wien-München-Manutius Press, 1964. He was a member of several editorial boards of literary magazines, and editor of the Academy bulletin 1957.\n\nKlasikTV Video about Ljubo Babić and his work is available on YouTube\n\n\nBabić exhibited from 1910 until his death in 1974 in solo, group and collective shows around the world, including the \"Medulića\" Munich annual exhibition with other artists of the Vienna (Austria) Secession, the Croatian Spring Salon, Lade exhibitions, Independent Artists, Group of Three, Croatian artists, the XXI Venice Biennale, and in a number of other exhibitions of Croatian and Yugoslav artists. At the Exposition internationale in Paris 1925 and in New York in 1926, he worked in the International Theatre Exhibition.\n\n\nRecent exhibitions of Babić's work include:\n\nBabić's work can be found in the following public collections\n\nCroatia\n\nMacedonia (F.Y.R.M.)\n\n"}
{"id": "22683641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22683641", "title": "Mardin engagement ceremony massacre", "text": "Mardin engagement ceremony massacre\n\nThe Mardin engagement ceremony massacre was a massacre carried out by Mehmet Çelebi, a village guard, at an engagement ceremony, where at least forty-four people were killed on May 4, 2009, in the village of Bilge in Mazıdağı district of south-eastern Mardin Province in Turkey. The attack was perpetrated using grenades and automatic weapons by at least two masked assailants, who authorities believe are involved in a feud between two families. According to some sources it was an internal feud of the Kurdish Çelebi clan.\n\nThe faces of the victims were left in a physically unrecognisable state. Reuters said it was \"one of the worst attacks involving civilians in Turkey's modern history\", declaring that the scale of the attack had shocked the nation.\n\nThe guests were escorted into a large room before being attacked with hand grenades. The attack killed at least forty-four people and injured six, according to Turkey's Interior Minister, Beşir Atalay. The Bilge village head along with ten other members of his family were among those killed in the attack. Six of the dead were children, sixteen were reported as being women, and twenty-two as men. Other corpses discovered at the scene included those of the bride, Sevgi Çelebi, and her husband, Habib Ari alongside Ari's sister, Ruken, a four-year-old girl. The bride's father, Cemil Çelebi, was injured. The wedding cleric himself was also killed in the incident. Two girls allegedly survived by hiding under the corpses of associates. One whole family, composed of two adult parents and six children between the ages of three and twelve at the time of their deaths, were slaughtered. Several wailing women pursued the ambulances bearing 17 corpses to a Mardin morgue.\n\nOne man whose nephew was murdered described the scene as \"horrifying\", saying \"you could not believe your eyes\". Another involved man claimed the slaughter began \"after they took their position to perform prayers\" and that explosives had been used to dismember the faces of the victims. Schoolteacher Sadik Akbulut attended the engagement ceremony alongside his wife, Bedia Akbulut, but survived after he failed to wake up in time for the party. Bedia claimed they heard shots being fired and that her husband dimmed the lights.\n\nApproximately two hundred guests attended the engagement ceremony. Allegations of a family feud surfaced when it emerged that there was a similarity between the dead and those who left them in this state. However, it has been said that this feud was settled around twenty years previously. The marriage is thought to have reopened the feud amongst factions which \"strongly disagreed\" with its occurrence. It has been described as \"a combination of tribalism, love for guns, and tradition gone awfully wrong\".\n\nIt is unclear if the bride and groom had completed the required steps to become legally married. While some reports refer to them in unmarried terms, others refer to them in married terms.\n\nSpeculation as to the cause and identity of the perpetrators circulated via the local media after the incident. One suggestion had a long-term village family feud. Another suggestion blamed the Village Guards, a shadowy militia force established in 1984 to assist government troops in battles against the PKK. Those who carried out the attack were disguised in masks.\n\nThe perpetrators fled after the attack to the nearby Syrian border as a sandstorm in the area intensified. Initial assessments rule out the PKK, according to Atalay. As of May 5, there were eight suspects in custody that had been arrested with weapons and they remain anonymous.\n\nSoldiers blockaded roads leading into the village after the incident and journalists were forbidden to enter. Electricity supplies and telephone access were also cut off.\n\nLater, a village guard, Mehmet Çelebi admitted the massacre.\n\nThe government and civic organizations set up a rehabilitation program in June 2009 in the form of occupational therapy for the children orphaned with the aim to lessen their pain and make them forget the memories of the massacre. A sports center was established in the village by the national gymnast Nuri Batır to provide lessons in gymnastics, athletics and swimming. Major sponsors of the project were the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and Middle East College in Diyarbakır.\n\n35 of the 62 orphans took part at the sports lessons. After only one week of training, the children attended a sports contest in Batman and achieved seventh place among 15 teams.\n\nTwenty-one children were prepared for performing a show on the national and international stage. They showed their abilities first during the Victory Day celebrations on August 30 in Mardin. Their show called \"Bilge Village Peace Flowers\" took later place at school openings in Mardin, Diyarbakır and Ankara. A show named \"Peace Shows\" was prepared for staging in neighboring countries including Cyprus, Northern Cyprus, Azerbaijan, Northern Iraq, Palestine and Lebanon.\n\nA twelve-year-old girl, who had lost both her mother and father in the violence, said the sports activities helped her forget the event. She continued that performing shows for children of other countries will be most exciting for her since \"I do not want to see children losing their mothers and fathers anymore,\" adding \"I want peace and brotherhood.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7408152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7408152", "title": "Marjorie Ogilvie Anderson", "text": "Marjorie Ogilvie Anderson\n\nMarjorie Ogilvie Anderson (9 February 1909 – 27 May 2002) was a Scottish historian and paleographer. \n\nBorn Marjorie Ogilvie Cunningham in St Andrews, she attended St Leonards School there before studying English at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford University.\n\nAfter graduation she joined Alan Orr Anderson, whose eyesight was failing, as his paleographer and assistant. They married in 1932. Alan Anderson died in 1958, but Mrs Anderson continued to publish on early Scottish subjects, most notably her \"Kings and Kingship in Early Scotland\" and her revision of \"Early Sources of Scottish History\", the standard collection of source material on Scottish History to 1286, written by Alan Anderson and first published in 1922.\n\nMrs Anderson received an honorary DLitt from the University of Saint Andrews in 1973. A festschrift in her honour was published in 2000. \n\nShe died in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47382564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382564", "title": "Ooni Ogboruu", "text": "Ooni Ogboruu\n\nOoni Ogboruu was the 19th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Ooni Osinkola and was succeeded by \nOoni Giesi.\n"}
{"id": "38280978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38280978", "title": "Overdetermination", "text": "Overdetermination\n\nOverdetermination occurs when a single-observed effect is determined by multiple causes, any one of which alone would be sufficient to account for (\"determine\") the effect. That is, there are more causes present than are necessary to cause the effect. In the philosophy of science, this means that more evidence is available than is necessary to justify a conclusion. Overdetermination is in contrast to underdetermination, when the number or strength of causes is insufficient. \n\nThe term \"overdetermination\" () was also used by Sigmund Freud as a key concept in his psychoanalysis.\n\nFreud wrote in \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" that many features of dreams were usually \"overdetermined,\" in that they were caused by multiple factors in the life of the dreamer, from the \"residue of the day\" (superficial memories of recent life) to deeply repressed traumas and unconscious wishes, these being \"potent thoughts\". Freud favored interpretations which accounted for such features not only once, but many times, in the context of various levels and complexes of the dreamer's psyche.\n\nThe concept was later borrowed for a variety of other realms of thought.\n\nIn contemporary analytic philosophy an event or state of affairs is said to be \"overdetermined\" if it has two or more distinct, sufficient causes. In philosophy of mind, the famous case of overdetermination is called mental-physical causal overdetermination. If we accept that a mental state (M) is realized by a physical state (P). And M can cause another mental state (M*) or another physical state (P*). Then, nomologically speaking, P can cause M* or P* too. In this way, M* or P* is both determined by M and P. In other words, both M* and P* are overdetermined. Since either M or P is sufficient for M* or P*, the problem of mental-physical causal overdetermination is the causal redundancy. \n\nWhereas there may unproblematically be recognised many different \"necessary\" conditions of the event's occurrence, no two distinct events may lay claim to be sufficient conditions, since this would lead to overdetermination. A much used example is that of firing squads, the members of which simultaneously firing at and 'killing' their targets. Apparently, no one member can be said to have caused the victims' deaths, since he or she would have been killed anyway. Another example is that Billy and Suzy each throw a rock through a window, and either rock alone could have shattered the window. In this case, similar to the example of firing squads, Billy and Suzy \"together\" shatter the window and the result is not overdetermined. Or, we can say, even if these two examples are a kind of overdetermination, this kind of overdetermination is benign.\n\nThere are many problems of overdetermination. First, overdetermination is problematic in particular from the viewpoint of a standard counterfactual understanding of causation, according to which an event is the cause of another event if and only if the latter would not have occurred, had the former not occurred. In order to employ this formula to actual complex situations, implicit or explicit conditions need to be accepted to be circumstantial, since the list of counterfactually acceptable causes would otherwise be impractically long (e.g. the Earth's continued existence could be said to be the (necessary) cause of one drinking one's coffee). Unless a circumstance-clause is included, the putative cause to which one wishes to draw attention could never be considered sufficient, and hence not comply with the counterfactual analysis. Second, overdetermination is problematic in that we do not know how to explain where the extra causation \"comes from\" and \"goes\". This makes overdetermination mysterious.\n\nThe New Critic I. A. Richards used the idea of overdetermination to explain the importance of ambiguity in rhetoric, the philosophy of language, and literary criticism.\n\nThe Marxist philosopher Louis Althusser imported the concept into Marxist political theory in an influential essay, \"Contradiction and overdetermination.\" Drawing from both Freud and Mao Zedong, Althusser used the idea of overdetermination as a way of thinking about the multiple, often opposed, forces active at once in any political situation, without falling into an overly simple idea of these forces being simply \"contradictory.\" Brewster, in Althusser et al.'s \"Reading Capital\" defines overdetermination as such:\n\n\"the representation of dream thoughts in images privileged by their condensation of a number of thoughts in a single image (condensation), or by the transference of psychic energy from a particularly potent thought to apparently trivial things ... [For Althusser] overdetermination of a contradiction is the reflection in it of its conditions of existence within the complex whole.\"\n\nAn instance of a popular riot calling for revolution could exemplify overdetermination. The event has to it, in capitalist culture, an over-application (determination) of agitation. The determinant contradictions (the reasons for popular revolt) are not addressed and so their great mass is \"displaced\" onto the singular event.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4128506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4128506", "title": "R. F. Foster (historian)", "text": "R. F. Foster (historian)\n\nRobert Fitzroy 'Roy' Foster, FBA, FRHistS, FRSL (born 16 January 1949), publishing as R. F. Foster, is an Irish historian and academic. He was the Carroll Professor of Irish History from 1991 until 2016 at Hertford College, Oxford, in Great Britain.\n\nFoster was born on 16 January 1949 in Waterford, to two teachers: Betty Foster (née Fitzroy), a primary teacher, and 'Fef' (Ernest) Foster, a teacher of Irish. His father, Fef, was a native of Drung, a tiny hamlet and parish located between Cavan Town and Cootehill in County Cavan. Roy attended Newtown School in Waterford, a multi-denominational school that was founded as a Quaker school in the late 18th century. He won a scholarship to attend St. Andrew's School in Delaware for a year before reading history at Trinity College, Dublin. He was awarded an M.A. and PhD by Trinity College, where he was taught by T. W. Moody and F.S.L. Lyons, and was elected a scholar in History and Political Science in 1969.\n\nPrior to his appointment to the Carroll professorship, he was Professor of Modern British History at Birkbeck, University of London, University of London, and held visiting fellowships at St Antony's College, Oxford, the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, and Princeton University. Based in London as well as at Hertford College in Oxford, Foster visits Ireland frequently.\n\nHis work is generally published under the name R. F. Foster.\n\nHe has written early biographies of Charles Stewart Parnell and Lord Randolph Churchill, edited \"The Oxford History of Ireland\" (1989), and written \"Modern Ireland: 1600–1972\" (1988) and several books of essays. Foster produced a much-acclaimed two-part biography of William Butler Yeats which was awarded the James Tait Black Memorial Prize, and collaborated with Fintan Cullen on a National Portrait Gallery exhibition, 'Conquering England: the Irish in Victorian London'. Seamus Deane wrote a review in the \"Irish Times\" of 27 September 2003 quoting W.B. Yeats as saying \"My glory was that I had such friends\". Deane then suggests that Yeats was also lucky in having such a biographer as Foster.\n\nIn 2000 Foster was a judge in the Man Booker Prize.\n\nHe has been married to the novelist and critic Aisling Foster (née O'Conor Donelan) since 1972 and they have two children.\n\nIn 1989, he was elected Fellow of the British Academy (FBA). He is also an elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature (FRSL), and a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (FRHistS).\n\nIn 2015, he was awarded the British Academy Medal for his book \"Vivid Faces: The Revolutionary Generation in Ireland 1890–1923\".\n\nEssay collections\n\nMiscellaneous\n\n"}
{"id": "47107600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47107600", "title": "Renaissance studies", "text": "Renaissance studies\n\nRenaissance studies (also \"Renaissance and Early Modern Studies\") is the interdisciplinary study of the Renaissance and early modern period. The field of study often incorporates knowledge from history, art history, literature, music, architecture, history of science, philosophy, classics, and medieval studies.\n\nRenaissance studies programs exist at several universities, ether an independent field of study or as a subset of medieval studies.\n"}
{"id": "56435250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56435250", "title": "Robert W. Doran", "text": "Robert W. Doran\n\nRobert William Doran HFNZCS (5 November 1944 – 13 October 2018) was a New Zealand-based computer scientist and historian of computing. He was Professor Emeritus of Computer Science at the University of Auckland, New Zealand.\n\nRobert W. Doran studied at the University of Canterbury (New Zealand) and for a Masters in computer science from Stanford University (California, United States) in 1967. He taught at City University (London, England) and Massey University (Palmerston North, New Zealand). He first worked with computers in 1963. He was a Principal Computer Architect at Amdahl Corporation (Sunnyvale, California) during 1976–1982. He joined the Department of Computer Science at the University of Auckland in 1982 and was Head of Department. He maintained computing history displays in the department, especially of totalisators.\n\nDoran's research interests included computer architecture, parallel algorithms, and computer programming. He was also interested in the history of computing. In 2017, he contributed to \"The Turing Guide\".\n\nRobert Doran was made an Honorary Fellow of the New Zealand Computer Society, now the Institute of IT Professionals.\n\nBob Doran died on 13 October 2018 at home in Auckland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1321997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1321997", "title": "Rochet", "text": "Rochet\n\nA rochet is a white vestment generally worn by a Roman Catholic or Anglican bishop in choir dress. It is unknown in the Eastern churches. The rochet in its Roman form is similar to a surplice, except that the sleeves are narrower. In its Anglican form it is a descendent of the traditional albs worn by deacons and priests. In the Roman Catholic tradition, the rochet comes below the knee and its sleeves and hem are sometimes made of lace; in the Anglican tradition, the rochet comes down almost to the hem of the cassock and its sleeves are gathered at the wrist.\n\nThe word stems from the Latin \"rochettum\" (from the late Latin \"roccus\", connected with the Old High German \"roch\", \"roc\" and the A.S. \"rocc\"; Dutch \"koorhemd, rochet\", French \"rochet\", German \"Rochett, Chorkleid\", Italian \"rocchetto\", Spanish \"roquete\"), means an ecclesiastical vestment.\n\nIn the Catholic Church, cardinals, bishops and certain other dignitaries use a rochet, a garment that is worn over the cassock for non-eucharistic functions.\n\nThe Catholic rochet is a tunic of white, usually fine linen or muslin (batiste, mull) reaching about to the knee, and distinguished from the surplice mainly by the narrower sleeves which make its arms tight-fitting, and is frequently trimmed with lace. The lower edge and the sleeves may also be garnished with lace, lined with violet or red silk in the case of prelates, or more rarely with embroidered borders.\n\nThe rochet is proper to, and distinctive of, prelates and bishops, but the right to wear it is sometimes granted by the pope to others, especially the canons of cathedral churches. It is not a \"vestis sacra\", and cannot therefore be used as a substitute for the surplice, e.g. in the administering of the Sacraments (Decree of the Congregation of Rites of January 10, 1852). Nonetheless, since it is used at choir services and is ordered to be worn over the everyday dress at Mass (Missa rom. Rit. celebr. i. 2), it may be included among liturgical vestments in the widest sense. It is worn instead of a surplice by Canons Regular as part of their habit for liturgical use alone.\n\nThe earliest notice of the use of the rochet is found in an inventory of the vestments of the Roman clergy, dating from the 9th century. In this it is called \"camisia\", a name which it retained at Rome until the 14th century, and it seems to have been already at that time proper to particular members of the clergy. Other Roman names for the vestment were \"succa, sucta\"; it was not till the 14th century that the name \"rochettum\" appeared at Rome, but it was not long before it had superseded all the native designations.\n\nOutside Rome, too, the vestment is early met with, e.g. in the Frankish empire (9th century) as \"alba clericalis\", in contrast to the liturgical alb, and in England (10th century) under the name of \"oferslip\" in the 46th canon of the ecclesiastical laws of Edgar. At the beginning of the 12th century the rochet is mentioned, under the name of \"camisia\", by Gilbert of Limerick and by Honorius, and, somewhat later, by Gerloh of Reichersperg as \"tunica talaris\". From the 13th century onward it is frequently mentioned. The name \"rocheltum\" is first traceable in England; in Germany and northern France the rochet was also called \"sarohi\" (Latinized \"sarrotus\") or \"sarcos\" (Latinized \"sarcotium\").\n\nOutside Rome the rochet was, until well into the 14th century, a vestment common to all the clergy, and especially to those of the lower orders; and so it remained, in general, until the 16th century, and even, here and there, so late as the 19th. Moreover, in further contrast to the Roman use, it had, especially in the German dioceses, a liturgical character, being used instead of the surplice.\n\nThe rochet was originally a robe-like tunic, and was therefore girdled, like the liturgical alb. So as late as 1260 the provincial synod of Cologne decreed that the \"vestis camisialis\" must be long enough entirely to cover the everyday dress. A good example of the camisia of the 12th century is the rochet of Thomas Becket, preserved at Dammartin in the Pas de Calais, the only surviving medieval example remarkable for the pleating which, as was the case with albs also, gave greater breadth and more elaborate folds. In the 15th century the rochet only reached halfway down the shin; in the 16th and 17th to the knee; in the 18th and 19th often only to the middle of the thigh.\n\nIn the Middle Ages it was always plain.\n\nIn the Anglican Churches the rochet is a vestment peculiar to bishops and is worn by them in choir dress with the chimere, both in ministration in church and also on ceremonial occasions outside, e.g. sitting in the House of Lords, attending a royal levee, or commencement ceremony. It may be worn with a stole, cope and mitre for more dignified occasions (such as Baptism outside the context of the Eucharist, Solemn Evensong, royal weddings and the coronation of the Sovereign).\nIn general it has retained the medieval form more closely than the Roman rochet and more resembles the alb, insofar as it is of plain, very fine linen, and reaches almost to the feet. Where the Roman rochet is descended from the surplice, the rochet in its Anglican form is equal to that of the earlier style albs worn by priests. The main modifications have been in the (usually) baggy 'lawn' sleeves that are gathered at the wrists with a band of black or scarlet cloth. At the time of the Reformation these were still narrow, though already showing a tendency to expand. The portrait of Archbishop Warham at Lambeth, for instance, shows a rochet with fairly wide sleeves narrowing towards the wrists, where they are confined by fur cuffs. This fashion continued until, in the 17th century, the sleeves became much fuller; only in the 18th century did they develop into the familiar exaggerated balloon shape, confined at the wrists by a ribbon, beyond which a ruffle projected. About the same period, too, arose the custom of making the rochet sleeveless and attaching the lawn sleeves to the chimere. This remained the fashion most of the 19th century, but there has since been a tendency to revert to the earlier less exaggerated form, and the sleeves have been reattached to the rochet. The ribbon by which the wrist is confined is red, except when conducting or participating in a formal, public funeral (e.g. of a head of state), when it is black.\n\nThe rochet is worn without the chimere under the cope by those bishops who use this vestment. At his consecration the bishop-elect is, according to the rubric, presented to the consecrating bishops vested in a rochet only; after the laying on of hands he retires and puts on the rest of the episcopal habit; i.e. the chimere.\nOne exception to the normal Anglican-style is the rochet worn by the previous Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams which has open-ended narrow sleeves in the manner of the Roman rochet.\n\n"}
{"id": "16942823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16942823", "title": "Sena, Yemen", "text": "Sena, Yemen\n\nSena (Arabic), sometimes spelled \"Senna\", \"Sanaw\" or \"Sanāw\" (the latter three names also Arabic), is an abandoned ancient town in Yemen located in the remote eastern Hadramaut valley. This village is distinct from the capital of Yemen, San'a (Arabic), and the town of \"Sanāw\" in Oman.\n\nSena was a thriving Jewish city at the time of the Babylonian empire around 500 BC, and is believed to have been dominated by Israelites who had fled Jerusalem during the Babylonian invasion. They crossed the Jordan into Yemen, believing they were safe in the valley in the east, crossing the Masilah River. According to hydrologists, agriculture in the dry valley was only made possible by a dam; when this broke leaving no water, the inhabitants of the city were forced to move or face starvation.\n\nBritish anthropologist Tudor Parfitt, who specializes in Jewish studies, believes the Ark of the Covenant was kept in the town for some time before it was taken across to Africa, where the Israelites leaving Sena settled along the Limpopo River in Zimbabwe. The town of Sena is frequently mentioned in the history of the Lemba tribe; more recently genetic studies have found signs that they may be descendants of the Israelites.\n\nToday the deserted town is occupied only five days a year by pilgrims, and the area is under a garrison of the Yemeni army.\n"}
{"id": "37388083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37388083", "title": "Surrey Archaeological Society", "text": "Surrey Archaeological Society\n\nSurrey Archaeological Society is a county archaeological society, founded in 1854 for \"the investigation of subjects connected with the history and antiquities of the County of Surrey\" in England. \n\nThe Society concerns itself with \"the County of Surrey within the boundaries existing in 1854 … and as may be enlarged by any extension of the present Administrative County\". Its geographical interests therefore cover, in addition to the modern administrative county of Surrey, the areas now forming the London boroughs of Lambeth, Wandsworth, Southwark, Croydon, Kingston, Merton, Sutton, and Richmond; as well as the district of Spelthorne, which became part of the county only in 1965. Where appropriate, however, the Society works in close cooperation with other archaeological agencies, such as Museum of London Archaeology.\n\nThe Society's headquarters, which include an extensive library, are located at Castle Arch, Guildford. The building also houses Guildford Museum, itself originally established by the Society, although now quite independent. The Society incorporates nine Special Interest Groups: the Artefacts and Archives Recording Group; the Local History Group; the Medieval Studies Forum; the Prehistoric Group; the Roman Studies Group; the Surrey Industrial History Group; the Villages Study Group; the Guildford Archaeology and Local History Group; and the Research Committee.\n\nThe Society's official journal is \"Surrey Archaeological Collections\", first published in 1858, and which now appears annually.\n\nSince 1973, the journal has been supplemented by \"Surrey History\", a more popular historical magazine. The Society also issues a regular bimonthly \"Bulletin\", containing news, short reports and articles, and notices of forthcoming events.\n\nThe Society has also published a number of occasional single issue publications, notably in its Research Volumes, Research Papers and Village Studies series. It has published two larger multi-authored volumes providing a broader overview of the county's archaeology and history: \n\nThe Surrey Industrial History Group publishes its own \"Newsletter\", and other occasional publications.\n\nIn 1894 the Society published a calendar of medieval Surrey feet of fines, edited by Frank Lewis, as \"\"Surrey Archaeological Collections\", Extra Volume 1\". In the event this was the only \"extra volume\" ever published. In 1912, the honorary secretary, Hilary Jenkinson (himself an archivist), finding a lack of enthusiasm within the society for further sustained record publication, established the Surrey Record Society as an independent body, and the two societies have coexisted amicably ever since.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49633190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49633190", "title": "Tarkhan dress", "text": "Tarkhan dress\n\nThe Tarkhan Dress, named for the Tarkhan cemetery south of Cairo in Egypt where it was excavated in 1913, is an over 5000 years old linen garment that was confirmed as the world's oldest piece of woven clothing. \n\nThe dress coded UC28614B is currently in the collection of the University College London (UCL) Petrie Museum of Egyptian Archaeology. Radiocarbon testing conducted in 2015 by the University of Oxford affirms, with 95% accuracy, that the dress dates from between 3482 and 3102 BCE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3208523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3208523", "title": "Terry Glavin", "text": "Terry Glavin\n\nTerry Glavin (born 1955) is a Canadian author and journalist.\n\nBorn in the United Kingdom to Irish parents, he emigrated to Canada in 1957. Glavin has worked as a journalist and columnist for \"The Daily Columbian\" (reporter, columnist and assistant city editor), \"The Vancouver Sun\" (columnist), \"The Globe and Mail\" (columnist), \"The Georgia Straight\" (columnist), and \"The Tyee\" . He has been with the \"Ottawa Citizen\" since 2011. He has contributed articles to many newspapers and magazines, including \"Canadian Geographic\", \"Vancouver Review\", \"Democratiya\", \"The National Post\", \"Seed\", \"Adbusters\", and \"Lettre International\" (Berlin). He founded and was chief editor of Transmontanus Books, an imprint of New Star Books.\n\nHe was a sessional instructor in the Writing Department of the Fine Arts Faculty at the University of Victoria, in Victoria BC, and an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Creative Writing at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver.\n\nGlavin's writing covers a wide range of regional and global topics from natural history and anthropology to current politics. His work as a journalist and writer have taken him to Central America, China, the Eastern Himalayas, the Russian Far East, Afghanistan, and Israel, and his books have been published in Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany. He is a signatory of the Euston Manifesto.\n\nHis first book, \"A Death Feast in Dimlahamid\" (1990), dealt with the struggles of the Gitxsan and Wet'suwet'en peoples, drawing on an account of the oral traditions of Dimlahamid, also known as Temlaham, an ancient city said to have existed in that region. His second book, \"Nemiah: The Unconquered Country\" (1992), a cultural and historical account of British Columbia's Chilcotin District, included some of the Tsilhqot'in people's perspective on the Chilcotin War of 1864. \"Ghost in the Water\", on the giant green sturgeon in British Columbia's rivers, was published by New Star in 1994.\n\nAmong his best known works is \"The Last Great Sea: A Voyage Through the Human and Natural History of the North Pacific Ocean\" (2000), which was nominated for the Bill Duthie Booksellers' Choice Award and the Roderick Haig-Brown Regional Prize, and was the winner of the Hubert Evans Non-Fiction Prize.\nIn total, he has authored seven books on his own, and three in collaboration with other authors. Books published since \"The Last Great Sea\" are\n\nOther works by Glavin are:\n\nIn 2009, Glavin was awarded the Lieutenant Governor's Award for Literary Excellence for contributing significantly to the development of literary excellence in British Columbia and the Hubert Evans Prize for Non-Fiction. He has a total of eleven awards including several National Magazine Awards:\n\n\nGlavin is a friend of journalist Michael Totten.\n\n"}
{"id": "1071348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1071348", "title": "The Modern Antiquarian", "text": "The Modern Antiquarian\n\nThe Modern Antiquarian: A Pre-Millennial Odyssey Through Megalithic Britain is a bestselling and critically acclaimed guide book written by Julian Cope, published in 1998. It is written as a travelogue of British megalithic sites, including Stonehenge and Avebury. Types of artifacts cataloged include stone circles, hillforts and barrows.\n\nIn the introduction Cope explains how a visit to Avebury Stone Circle inspired his enthusiasm for the subject. He was disappointed with the quality of available guidebooks, so decided to write his own. He visited and researched hundreds of sites over eight years, selecting about 300 of the most significant for the book.\n\nThe book is divided into two sections, the first being ten essays by Cope about various aspects of megalithic British culture. The second section and the bulk of the book is a geographically arranged gazetteer of the sites. Each entry includes an essay, directions to the site, map references, Cope's own account of his visit, photographs and drawings.\n\nA documentary film of the same name was made for the BBC in mid-2000.\n\nBased on the guidebook \"The Modern Antiquarian\" website was launched in 2000. It invites users to add their own knowledge, research and photographs of the ancient sites of Britain and Ireland and currently holds information on over 7,400 archaeological sites.\n\nIn October 2004 Cope published the follow-up volume \"The Megalithic European\" on 300 sites scattered across Europe and Scandinavia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1078253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078253", "title": "Timeline of alcohol fuel", "text": "Timeline of alcohol fuel\n\nEthanol, an alcohol fuel, is an important fuel for the operation of internal combustion engines that are used in cars, trucks, and other kinds of machinery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11963104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11963104", "title": "Vadim Rogovin", "text": "Vadim Rogovin\n\nVadim Zakharovich Rogovin () (10 May 1937 in Moscow – 25 September 1998 in Moscow) was a Russian Marxist (Trotskyist) historian and sociologist, Ph.D. in philosophy, Leading Researcher at the Institute of Sociology of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and the author of \"Was There An Alternative?\", the 7-volume study of Stalin era between 1923 and 1940, with an emphasis on the Trotskyist opposition.\n\nHe was considered the leading one among Trotskyist Soviet historians emerging after Perestroika.\n\nIn 1998 Vadim Rogovin died of cancer, survived by his wife, Galina Valiuzhenich.\n\nIn the introduction to the first volume of the \"Was There An Alternative?\" series Rogovin explains his position and the purpose of this work as follows. In the history of the Soviet Union a crucial question was to find out the reason for the emergence of the phenomenon of Stalinism. Rogovin writes there are basically two diametrically opposed approaches. The first one is that Stalinism with its terror was a logical, unavoidable evolution of Marxism-Leninism within Bolshevism from the Socialist revolution. Another approach is to consider that Stalinism was a historically accidental development and that there was an alternative movement within Bolshevism (Trotskyism), and the major function of Stalinist terror was to suppress this movement.\n\nRogovin suggests that the first approach has become dominant in historical research for two major reasons. The first one is the coincidence of the goals in this respect of two major historical schools: of the official pro-Soviet school with the tradition of demonizing of Trotsky and Trotskyism and of the anti-Soviet, anti-Communist school, with its tradition of demonizing the whole Communist movement, for which purpose it was convenient to attribute the traits of Stalinism to Communism as a whole. The second reason is that with a few exceptions of émigrés, all Trotskyists were physically eliminated by Stalin so that there are virtually no memoirs, and nearly all documents of the Left Opposition were made inaccessible. Therefore the historical picture has become distorted in this area for both subjective and objective reasons.\n\nDuring Perestroika a large amount of memoirs of repressed people have become available. Unfortunately the memoirs of \"true\" Trotskyists (as opposed to the ones falsely accused of Trotskyism during Soviet repressions), are close to none, because all these real political opponents were physically eliminated. Fortunately the policy of \"glasnost\" had led to the opening of numerous archives, which make it possible to better trace the evolution towards Stalinism.\n\nRogovin writes that the treatise did not consider the debunking of various misconceptions, in order not to unnecessarily disrupt the harmony of the exposition of the second alternative mentioned above: to demonstrate that Stalinism was not the only logical possibility of the evolution of the principles of Bolshevism.\n\nWith the above purpose in mind, the major focus of the treatise was necessarily Trotskyism and the Left Opposition movement within Bolshevism. This focus gave rise to accusations of bias. For example, historian Yuri Felshtinsky recognized the value of his work, while expressing an opinion that \"..Все эти книги, однако, проникнуты безудержной апологетикой Троцкого и проистекающим отсюда догматизмом\" (\"All of these books, however, are imbued with rampant apologetics of Trotsky and with the dogmatism stemming from the former.\").\n\nIn response to such criticism Mikhail Voeikov, Doctor of Economic Sciences and a Professor of the Institute of Economics of the Russian Academy of Sciences, writes \nSome opponents of Rogovin ascribe to him an apologetic attitude towards the person and the activity of Trotsky. Persons who are well acquainted with the whole world literature on this subject might agree with this impression. But for us, for the Russian readers who discovered the truth about Trotsky for the first time in the books of V.Z. Rogovin, no, we do not come away with an impression of apologetics. The very theme chosen by the author, \"alternatives to Stalinism,\" by the nature of this genre presupposes the sort of tonality which is used by V.Z. Rogovin. However, even here one must bear in mind that in many cases Rogovin points out the miscalculations and errors of Trotsky. The book \"World Revolution and World War\" even contains a chapter entitled \"In what and why did Trotsky err?\" In general, however, Rogovin's books are not only about Trotsky. Behind some trees, even the very large ones, one must also see the forest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45500547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45500547", "title": "Vũ Miên", "text": "Vũ Miên\n\nVũ Miên (; 1718 - 1782), is a notable historian and official from the 18th century to pre-19th century in Vietnam's history. Vũ Miên was born in 1718 in former Xuân Lan village, currently known as Ngọc Quan thorp in Lương Tài district, Bắc Ninh province, in a noble clan with tradition of studying. He did get highest scores in many Confucian examinations, including (會元), then finally was awarded the title Tiến sĩ (進士) in 1748. He did concurrently hold many high ranking mandarin positions, including: Chancellor and Headmaster of Quốc Tử Giám, Chairman of National History Press...\n\n\n\n[1] 欽定越史通鑑綱目-National History Press under Nguyen dynasty\n\n[2] 歷朝憲章類誌-Phan Huy Chu\n\n[3] 歷朝雜紀-Le Cao Lang\n\n[4] 大越歷朝登科錄-Nguyen Hoan, Vu Mien et al.\n\n[5] 登科錄搜講-Tran Tien\n"}
{"id": "9879029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9879029", "title": "Wagoto", "text": "Wagoto\n\n, or \"soft style\", is a style of kabuki acting that emphasizes realistic speech and gestures. Wagoto actors typically do not employ the exaggerated makeup and costuming common to the more exaggerated \"aragoto\" (\"rough\") style.\n\nWagoto was pioneered by Sakata Tōjūrō I, an actor in the Kamigata (Osaka-Kyoto) region. Plays that emphasize wagoto roles are typically tragic romances. Famous plays that emphasize wagoto roles include \"Sonezaki Shinjū\" (\"The Love Suicides at Sonezaki\") and \"Kuruwa Bunshō\" (\"Tales of the Licensed Quarter\").\n\nWagotoshi refers to Kabuki actors who specialize in wagoto roles. Notable wagotoshi include Bandō Kakitsu I and Matsumoto Kōshirō VII.\n"}
{"id": "9487910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9487910", "title": "Władysław Konopczyński", "text": "Władysław Konopczyński\n\nWładysław Konopczyński (26 November 1880 in Warsaw – 12 July 1952) was a leading Polish historian and publisher of primary-source materials.\n\nWładysław Konopczyński was born on 26 November 1880 in Warsaw as a son of Ignacy and Ludwika. He was baptised as Władysław Aleksander. His godsparents were Zofia Strumiłło and Aleksander Konopczyński.\n\nKonopczyński was a student of Polish historian Szymon Askenazy. He became a professor at Kraków's Jagiellonian University (1917) and a member of the Warsaw Scientific Society (\"Towarzystwo Naukowe Warszawskie\") and the Polish Academy of Learning (\"Polska Akademia Umiejętności\", 1922).\n\nHe was a polyglot who knew 14 languages.\n\nKonopczyński's chief interests were Polish parliamentary history, 17th- and 18th-century Polish politics and political thought, and the Bar Confederation. He wrote histories of Poland and of the modern world. In his own time, he participated as a member of the Polish delegation at the Paris Peace Conference, 1919 and as a representative of Popular National Union in the Sejm between 1922 and 1927 during the Second Polish Republic. He argued for the recognition of the role of Roman Dmowski in the fight for Polish independence.\n\nIn 1931, he founded \"Polski słownik biograficzny\" (The Polish Biographical Dictionary) and served as its first editor, seeing seven volumes through press, 1935–1949, before being forced by Poland's postwar communist government to resign his editorship. Many of his former and contemporary students also contributed to this work, including Emanuel Rostworowski, Władysław Czapliński, Józef Feldman, and Józef Andrzej Gierowski.\n\nDuring World War II, Konoczyński survived German imprisonment at Sachsenhausen concentration camp. Released in February 1940, he returned to Kraków where he continued to teach history secretly, rebuking those who claimed that the circumstances of the war kept them from their studies.\n\nAfter the war, he was removed from all his academic and scholarly posts by Poland's communist government.\n\nKonopczyński was a recipient of the French \"Légion d'honneur\".\n\nHis chief works included:\n\n\n"}
