{"id": "23163142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23163142", "title": "Abid", "text": "Abid\n\nAbid ( \"‘Ābid\"), also \"Abed\", literally meaning \"worshipper\", \"adorer\", \"devout\" may be either a surname or given name.\n\nIn the Russian language, \"\" (\"Abid\"), or its form \"\" (\"Avid\"), is an old and uncommon male given name. Included into various, often handwritten, church calendars throughout the 17th–19th centuries, it was omitted from the official Synodal Menologium at the end of the 19th century. Its origins are either Arabic (where it means \"desired\") or Aramaic (where it means \"work\", \"labor\"). The diminutive of \"Avid\" is Avidka (). The patronymics derived from \"Avid\" are \"\" (\"Avidovich\"; masculine) and \"\" (\"Avidovna\"; feminine).\n\nAs a surname, in the form Al-Abid () and its variants, it is shared by the following people:\n\nAs a surname:\n\nAs a given name or colloquial name, it is shared by the following people:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17827661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17827661", "title": "Ahala", "text": "Ahala\n\nAhala was a \"cognomen\" used by a branch of the patrician \"gens Servilia\". There were also several persons of this \"gens\" with the name of Structus Ahala, who may have formed a different family from the Ahalae; but as the Ahalae and Structi Ahalae are frequently confounded, all known persons of these names are given here.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "55677288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55677288", "title": "Arthur Heulhard", "text": "Arthur Heulhard\n\nArthur Heulhard (May 11, 1849 - January 2, 1920) was a French journalist and writer, best known as an advocate of the Christ myth theory.\n\nHeulhard was born in Lormes. He was the author of \"Le Mensonge Chrétien\", a series of eleven volumes declaring Jesus had no historical existence. According to Heulhard it was Barabbas who was crucifixed by Pontius Pilate and Christians actually worship Barabbas under the name Jesus, an imaginary person invented by the early Church. Heulhard gained a follower, the French scholar Daniel Massé who supported his thesis and authored a book on the subject.\n\nHe was a member of the Fourchette Harmonique Club of Bibliophiles and wrote for the \"L'art Musical and La France Chorale\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23316914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23316914", "title": "Bashir Aushev", "text": "Bashir Aushev\n\nBashir Magometovich Aushev (; 1947 – 13 June 2009) was a Russian-Ingush politician, who served as the Deputy Prime Minister of Ingushetia from 2002 until 2008.\n\nAushev served as Deputy Prime Minister under former Ingush President Murat Zyazikov. Zyazikov was a former Soviet K.G.B. agent, who was unpopular in Ingushetia because of repressive policies in the small Russian republic. Aushev had been responsible for Ingustetia's law enforcement agencies under Zyazikov while in office.\n\nAushev resigned from office in October 2008, when Murat Zyazikov was removed from office by the Russian government and replaced by Yunus-bek Yevkurov. He reportedly did not work from October 2008, when he left office, to his death in June 2009.\n\nAushev was shot and killed outside of his home in Nazran, Ingushetia, on 13 June 2009. Two unidentified gunmen opened fire on Aushev as he was exiting his car at the gate leading to his home.\n\nAushev's assassination was part of a string of killings and attacks on officials throughout Ingushetia and other parts of Russia's North Caucasus region in June 2009. On 10 June 2009, the deputy chief justice in the Supreme Court of Ingushetia, Aza Gazgireeva, was shot and killed. Just nine days after Aushev's assassination, the President of Ingushetia, Yunus-bek Yevkurov, was severely wounded in a bomb attack on his motorcade on 22 June 2009.\n"}
{"id": "394988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=394988", "title": "Black Kettle", "text": "Black Kettle\n\nBlack Kettle (Cheyenne: Mo'ohtavetoo'o) (c. 1803November 27, 1868) was a prominent leader of the Southern Cheyenne during the American Indian Wars. Born to the \"Northern Só'taeo'o / Só'taétaneo'o\" band of the Northern Cheyenne in the Black Hills of present-day South Dakota, he later married into the \"Wotápio / Wutapai\" band (one mixed Cheyenne-Kiowa band with Lakota Sioux origin) of the Southern Cheyenne. \n\nBlack Kettle is often remembered as a peacemaker who accepted treaties with the U.S. government to protect his people. On November 27, 1868, while attempting to escape the Battle of Washita River with his wife, he was shot and killed by soldiers of the U.S. 7th Cavalry.\n\nLittle is known of Black Kettle's life prior to 1854, when he was made a chief of the Council of Forty-four, the central government of the Cheyenne tribe. The Council met regularly at the Sun Dance gatherings, where they affirmed unity.\n\nAfter 1851, relations between the Cheyenne and the U.S. government were nominally conducted under the Treaty of Fort Laramie. Still, the U.S. government remained unwilling to control white expansion into the Great Plains, particularly after the Pike's Peak Gold Rush began in 1859. European Americans displaced the Cheyenne from their lands in violation of the treaty, and consumed important resources of water and game. Increasing competition eventually led to armed conflict between the groups.\n\nChief Black Kettle was a pragmatist who believed that U.S. military power and the number of immigrants were overwhelming and unable to be resisted. In 1861, he and the Arapaho surrendered to the commander of Fort Lyon under the Treaty of Fort Wise, believing he could gain protection for his people. The treaty was highly unfavorable to the Southern Cheyenne.\n\nThe Cheyenne led their bands to the Sand Creek reservation, which occupied a small corner of southeastern Colorado Territory about 40 miles from Fort Lyon. The land was not arable and was located far away from buffalo, their major source of meat. Many Cheyenne warriors, including the Dog Soldiers, did not accept the treaty and began to attack white settlers. Whether Black Kettle opposed these actions, tolerated them, or encouraged them remains controversial among historians.\n\nBy the summer of 1864, the situation had reached a boiling point. Southern Cheyenne hardliners, along with allied Kiowa and Arapaho bands, raided American settlements for livestock and supplies. Sometimes they took captives, generally only women and children, to adopt into their tribes as replacements for lost members. On July 11, 1864, Indians killed a family of settlers, an attack which the whites called the Hungate massacre after the family. Pro-war whites displayed the scalped bodies in Denver. Colorado governor John Evans believed tribal chiefs had ordered the attack and were intent on a full-scale war.\n\nEvans issued a proclamation ordering all \"Friendly Indians of the Plains\" to report to military posts or be considered \"hostile\". He sought and gained from the War Department authorization to establish the Third Colorado Cavalry. Colonel John M. Chivington led the unit, composed predominantly of \"100-daysers\", who enlisted for limited 100-day terms specifically for fighting against the Cheyenne and Arapaho.\n\nBlack Kettle decided to accept Evans' offer and entered negotiations. On September 28, he concluded a peace settlement at Fort Weld outside Denver. The agreement assigned the Southern Cheyenne to the Sand Creek reservation and required them to report to Fort Lyon, formerly Fort Wise. Black Kettle believed the agreement would ensure the safety of his people. After he went to the reservation, the commanding officer at the fort was replaced by one who was an ally of Chivington.\n\nAmbitious, Chivington felt pressure from Governor Evans to make use of the Third Colorado Cavalry before their terms expired at the end of 1864. On November 28, Chivington arrived with 700 men at Fort Lyon. According to an eyewitness, John S. Smith:\n[H]e stopped all persons from going on ahead of him. He stopped the mail, and would not allow any person to go on ahead of him at the time he was on his way from Denver city to Fort Lyon. He placed a guard around old Colonel Bent, the former agent there; he stopped a Mr. Hagues and many men who were on their way to Fort Lyon. He took the fort by surprise, and as soon as he got there he posted pickets all around the fort, and then left at 8 o'clock that night for this Indian camp.\n\nAt dawn on November 29, Chivington attacked the Sand Creek reservation; the event became known as the Sand Creek massacre. Most of the warriors were out hunting. Following Indian agent instructions, Black Kettle flew an American flag and a white flag from his tipi, but the signal was ignored. The 3rd Colorado Cavalry killed 163 Cheyenne by shooting or stabbing. They burned down the village encampment. Most of the victims were women and children. For months afterward, members of the militia displayed trophies in Denver of their battle, including body parts they had taken for souvenirs.\n\nBlack Kettle escaped the massacre and returned to rescue his severely injured wife, who suffered nine bullet and shrapnel wounds. He continued to counsel pacifism, believing that military resistance was doomed to fail. The majority of the Southern Cheyenne chiefs disagreed. Allied with the Comanche and Kiowa, they went to war against U.S. civilians and military forces.\n\nBlack Kettle said of that time:\nBlack Kettle moved south and continued to negotiate with U.S. officials. He achieved the Treaty of Little Arkansas River on October 14, 1865. By this document, the U.S. promised \"perpetual peace\" and lands in reparation for the Sand Creek massacre. However, its practical effect was to dispossess the Cheyenne yet again and require them to move to Indian Territory (present-day Oklahoma). Black Kettle's influence continued to wane. Roman Nose and his Dog Soldiers took a prevailing hard line and continued warfare.\n\nBlack Kettle's dwindling band proclaimed their desire to live peacefully alongside European Americans. Black Kettle signed yet another treaty, the Medicine Lodge Treaty, on October 28, 1867. The Dog Soldiers continued their raids and ambushes across Kansas, Texas, and Colorado.\n\nThe relationship between the two groups is a subject of historical dispute. According to Little Rock, second-in-command of Black Kettle's village, most of the warriors came back to Black Kettle's camp after their attacks. White prisoners, including children, were held within his encampment. By this time Black Kettle's influence was waning, and it is unclear whether he could have stopped the younger warriors' actions.\n\nIn response to the continued raids and massacres, General Philip Sheridan devised a plan of punitive reprisals. He planned to attack Cheyenne winter encampments, destroying both supplies and livestock, and killing any people who resisted. At dawn on the morning of November 27, 1868 (just two days short of the fourth anniversary of the Sand Creek massacre), Lieutenant Colonel George Armstrong Custer led his 7th Cavalry Regiment to attack Chief Black Kettle and his village along the Washita River in what is now western Oklahoma. Custer's troops killed more than 100 Native Americans, mostly Southern Cheyenne. While trying to cross the Washita River, Black Kettle and his wife were shot in the back and killed.\n\nAccording to Cheyenne oral tradition, a survivor of Washita, Meotzi/Monahseetah (Mo-nah-se-tah), who had a son, Yellow Swallow, by Custer was said to be Black Kettle's daughter, although in fact Mo-nah-se-tah was the daughter of Little Rock and not Black Kettle.\n\nThe Cheyenne have recognized Black Kettle as a peacemaker. Historian Gregory Michno, has criticized him for his alleged poor decision-making and inability to control his warriors which would have been disastrous for the tribe. Black Kettle National Grassland in Roger Mills County, Oklahoma and Hemphill County, Texas is named for him. Near the site of his death, in present-day Cheyenne, Oklahoma, the Black Kettle Museum commemorates his legacy.\n\nBlack Kettle was a recurring character in the CBS family drama \"Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman\" for its first three seasons, played by Nick Ramus. Black Kettle plays a key role for the series in the pilot episode. Dr. Quinn saves Black Kettle's life by performing a tracheotomy and removing a bullet lodged in his neck. She later receives a Cheyenne name from Black Kettle meaning \"Medicine Woman\".\n\nOn ska band Five Iron Frenzy's \"Our Newest Album Ever!\", the song \"Banner Year\" is about Black Kettle, how he was betrayed, and his eventual murder at the hands of Custer.\n\n"}
{"id": "42873636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42873636", "title": "C. T. Loo", "text": "C. T. Loo\n\nChing Tsai Loo, commonly known as C. T. Loo (; 1February 1880August15, 1957), was an art dealer of Chinese origin who maintained galleries in Paris and New York and supplied important pieces for collectors and American museums. He has been called \"the preeminent dealer of Chinese art and artifacts for the first half of the twentieth century,\" but also criticized for his active role in removing antiques and archaeological treasures from China for sale to western collectors.\n\nHe was born Lu Huanwen in Lujiadu 卢家渡 (Lu Family Ford) a village in Huzhou, Zhejiang, China, some west of Shanghai. His family had lived in this single-surname village since the 10th century. Orphaned at age ten, he raised by his uncle, but he decided as a teenager to try his luck in Nanxun, a center of the silk trade. He did well working under Zhang Baoshan, a successful merchant, whose son, Zhang Renjie, was appointed to the Chinese Embassy in France. Loo accompanied Zhang to Paris in 1902 at the age of 22. Few Chinese were living in France at that time, but Zhang Renjie invited Loo to work as doorman at his teahouse and then in his family Chinese goods import business, the gallery Ton-ying, in the Place de la Madeleine. Zhang used his connections in China to obtain antiques and works of art for the company. On his return to China, Zhang became an early financial backer of Chiang Kai-shek.\n\nWhen Loo arrived in Paris, he wore the traditional Chinese gown and sported a queue, but soon became a Parisian dandy. He thrived in Zhang's store but felt constrained. Profits were not reinvested but instead used for the anti-Manchu revolutionary activities of his boss, who subsidized a circle of Chinese philosophical anarchists. In 1908, Loo, now dressed in elegant Parisian fashion and calling himself Cheng-Tsai Loo (Lu Qin Zhai), opened his own store on Rue Taitbout under the name \"Laiyuan and Company\" with branches soon to open in Beijing and Shanghai. Loo realized that Westerners preferred later works such as Qing dynasty three-color porcelains, which could supply in good quantities because of the political ties he formed. A friend remarked on Loo's sources in China: \"being in touch with important people... he was able to know of precious works of art which had been hidden from the storms of many revolutions.\" \n\nLoo's timing was good. The reports of the French archaeological mission on the Central Asian caves at Dunhuang made the taste for Chinese things fashionable, and Loo supplied high quality works to fit the new tastes. He developed scholarly understanding and expanded public taste in Asian art, particularly sculpture and early jades, by becoming friends with such eminent Sinologists as Edouard Chavannes, Victor Segalen, and especially Paul Pelliot, director of the Dunhuang expedition, whom he commissioned to write catalogs (as he did later with Berthold Laufer in the United States). The outbreak of war of 1914, however, meant that he could no longer travel to and from China through Siberia but was forced to return by way of the United States. He discovered a growing market for Chinese art in New York and decided to establish a new branch there in 1915. The move from war-torn Europe to the New World was prescient, since the United States became the dominant importer of Chinese antiquities from 1916–1931.\nOnce established in galleries on Fifth Avenue, Loo's charm and connections in China proved effective and profitable. Loo, observes one recent scholar, lived in one of the most vigorous growth periods for the Asian art market. Wealthy collectors were learning about Asian art, as were well-endowed museums such as the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Museum of Fine Arts, in Boston, and the Freer Gallery in Washington, D.C. In Europe, interest in collecting art from the Orient was such that the major dealers, such as Loo, the Duveen brothers, and the Japanese dealer Yamanaka & Co., could hold exhibitions almost every year, sometimes both in New York and in Paris or London. Loo worked hard to establish personal relations with American museum directors and collectors. Between 1915 and 1917, he offered gifts to at least six museums. In July 1917, for instance, Loo wrote a postcard from Beijing to George Byron, director of the University of Pennsylvania museum, \"Will write you if I have seen some fine things suitable for your honorable museum.\" Works which he sold to museums and collectors at this time are on display at the Freer Gallery, the Fogg Museum, and the Museum of Fine Arts, among others, including the Yixian luohans, Emperor Taizong's horses, and a Sui dynasty altarpiece from the collection of the imperial collector Duanfang.\n\nAfter the end of the war in 1919, Loo found himself competing with dealers such as Duveen for the attention of collectors. A revealing transaction took place in 1921. Loo offered what he thought to be a Tang dynasty bronze head of Guanyin to John D. Rockefeller, III for $40,000. Rockefeller, perhaps concerned that dealers would want to take advantage of his wealth, declined, offering $25,000. After further bargaining led nowhere, Loo sold the piece to University of Pennsylvania Museum for $40,000. Loo continued his attempts to develop a relation with the Rockefellers, however, hosting them in his Paris \"pagoda,\" though they bought little of consequence from him. The decade long boom in Chinese art came to a close with the Crash of 1929, and by 1931, the volume of China's antique trade with the United States had fallen to about half what it had been in 1926.\n\nThe years up to 1941 saw a change in the nature of Loo's market as tastes changed. In the West, the study of Asia and Asian art became more professional as museums acquired curators to deepen and widen their collections and universities developed graduate programs. In China, the beleaguered Chinese government viewed traveling exhibitions which visited the West as a way to promote China's image, and Chinese art became an occasion for national pride. Loo's business reached its peak in the second half of the 1930s as he adapted to a more sophisticated market. Loo expanding his international art network to England, France, Germany, and America. Between 1933 and 1941 Loo launched at least one important exhibition or publication project every year. He continued to make major sales to his earlier museum clients, especially of bronzes and sculpture. Loo was instrumental in building the collections of the Nelson Gallery in Kansas City, whose organizer, Laurence Sickman, became a good friend. A series of catalogs and scholarly indexes displayed Loo's knowledge and experience. Among his most successful exhibitions was \"Three Thousand Years of Chinese Jade\", held in 1939 in New York as a fund raiser for China's wartime refugees. The war in China, however, made it nearly impossible to find or export artwork, especially the sculptures Loo so admired. Another problem for Loo was that many of his early clients either died or lost interest.\n\nOne new client whose interest grew was Eli Lilly, an Indiana pharmaceutical executive who assembled the basic works for the Asian collection of what became the Indianapolis Museum of Art. In 1947 Loo offered Lilly a group of Song dynasty ceramics for $54,350 which he had listed in his 1941 catalog for roughly half that price. Lilly, perhaps reasoning that Loo should have lowered, not raised, the price for works which had not sold, offered $40,000. After an exchange of correspondence which did not bring the sides together, Loo shipped the pieces to the museum and went himself to Indianapolis, bringing with him five further pieces. When Lilly agreed to pay the original asking price, Loo compromised by including the extra pieces. All are now in the museum.\n\nAfter 1949, the new Communist government gained control of China and cut Loo off from his sources. Some of Loo's associates were arrested, and Loo's nephew, who had been his agent there, escaped to Hong Kong. In 1950, Loo was forced to liquidate much of his stock, leaving the business to his long-time colleague and successor, Frank Caro.\n\nThe fall of the Qing dynasty in 1911 weakened government supervision of antiquities and coincided with a growth of Western interest in them. Loo created a chain of middlemen who were on the lookout for items they thought he might buy, not only from now impoverished families, but also from imperial tombs, monuments, and monasteries.\n\nLoo sometimes suggested that the objects he had acquired belonged to nobody. He reported that an early Zhou bronze was \"accidentally discovered\" by a friend of Loo's who was digging a well for a new house. His name has been \"notoriously\" associated with two relief panels depicting the favorite horses of Taizong, the founder of the Tang dynasty, among the most important Chinese sculpture pieces outside of China. Loo sold these two panels codice_1to the University of Pennsylvania Museum in the late 1910s and the early 1920s for $125,000. Loo later wrote that two tombs discovered in 1924 contained archaic jades, and that he was \"able to secure\" the whole collection. Jades discovered in tombs at Jincun, Henan, in 1928–29 were \"superb\" and \"thanks to an expert buyer that we had stationed in the village, we were able to secure nearly everything that came from these tombs, and most of them are now in the Winthrop collection at the Fogg Museum.\" Others are in the Freer Gallery.\n\nLoo also arranged for a group of Buddhist sculptures to be removed from Xiangtangshan Caves in Hebei, North China. When they could not find a buyer in China, Loo shipped them to Paris, where they again did not find buyers. When these efforts had failed, he finally shipped them to the United States, where the Philadelphia Museum and Charles Freer bought significant works for prices which now seem quite low. (Chinese regulations and Western museum practices now promote protection of such cultural treasures) \n\nThese transactions continue to offend some Chinese. Xu Jian, professor of history at Sun Yat-sen University in Guangzhou, says, \"Loo directly and strongly stimulated China's tomb-robbing activities.\" Géraldine Lenain, author of a biographical study of Loo, says emotions in China are \"still very cruel, still very intense\", and he's \"considered a criminal, the biggest criminal of all.\" Daisy Wang (Wang Yiyou), author of a doctoral dissertation on Loo's career as a dealer, told an interviewer that Loo served as \"an exotic Chinese servant for his rich and powerful Euro-American clientele ... based on America's capitalist and imperialist logic that Chinese antiquities were to be consumed by the rich and the powerful in modern America,\" not in China.\n\nLoo recognized the feeling against him. His introduction to the catalog for his liquidation sale in 1950 noted: \"No matter which object I exported from my country, they were all bought openly on the market, in competition with others.\" He continued: \"I am happy today that these objets d'art that I exported are securely and carefully preserved for posterity, because I think that if they had remained in China, many of these beautiful objects would have been destroyed.\" He suggested that the Chinese should blame some \"foreigners.\" He pointed out that the person who was responsible for the removal of the famous relief panels of the Taizong emperor's chargers was \"a foreign dealer.\"\n\nNot long after he opened his Paris gallery, Loo was struck by the beauty of Olga Hortense Libmond (1876–1960), a woman four years his elder who ran a milliner's shop a few doors away. They fell in love, and indeed saw each other constantly until his death in 1957, and she guided his life and career. But since she wanted to maintain her relationships with an older man who had financed her business, she instead offered her 15-year-old daughter, Marie-Rose (1895–1971), to Loo in marriage. Marie-Rose remained married to Loo until his death in 1957. They had four daughters, among them Janine Loo Pierre-Emmanuel.\n\nLoo died in Nyon, Switzerland, 15 August 1957. His body was returned to Paris, where it was interned in the burial plot of his wife's family.\n\nIn 1925, Loo bought and substantially remodeled a townhouse in the 8th Arrondissement, which came to be known as \"Pagoda Paris.\" The building became Loo's gallery and home for decades. The red brick building had jade-green roof tiles and Chinese gargoyles, 16th- and 17th-century lacquered wood paneling, an art deco glass ceiling depicting Chinese characters, an 18th- and 19th-century sculpted wood galleria of Indian origin, and a lacquer and wood elevator. The building fell into disrepair after Loo's death, but was purchased by a private French investor in 2010 and renovated as a venue for art and events. Loo's library is available to scholars.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9655945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9655945", "title": "Cincinnati Strangler", "text": "Cincinnati Strangler\n\nThe Cincinnati Strangler was the name given to a serial killer who raped, then strangled seven mostly elderly women in Cincinnati, Ohio between 1965 and 1966. The identity of the Cincinnati Strangler is commonly believed to be former cab driver Posteal Laskey Jr.\n\nDuring the killing spree there was considerable alarm on the part of many Cincinnatians, with locksmiths and hardware stores unable to keep up with the demand for locks. Despite being charged with only one murder, the citywide panic only abated after Laskey's arrest and conviction, when the killings suddenly stopped, thus supporting investigators' claim that they successfully found and jailed the Cincinnati Strangler.\n\nOriginally sentenced to death, Laskey's sentence was commuted to life imprisonment when the Supreme Court invalidated the death penalty in \"Furman v. Georgia\". In February 2007, Laskey was denied parole. The grounds cited by the Ohio Parole Board included the heinous nature of the crime, Laskey's prior record, and the community disapproval of an early release.\n\nHe would have been eligible for parole again in 2017 at the age of 79 years and was incarcerated in the Pickaway Correctional Institution. Laskey died on May 29, 2007 of natural causes, while still in prison. No one claimed his body and prison officials said he was buried in one of the State of Ohio's prison cemeteries.\n\n"}
{"id": "43582368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43582368", "title": "Clara Bewick Colby", "text": "Clara Bewick Colby\n\nClara Dorothy Bewick Colby (1 August 1846 – 7 September 1916) was a British-American lecturer, newspaper publisher and correspondent, women's rights activist, and suffragist leader. Born in England, she immigrated to the US, where she attended university and married the former American Civil War general, later Assistant United States Attorney General, Leonard Wright Colby. In 1883, she founded the \"Women's Tribune\" in Beatrice, Nebraska, moving it three years later to Washington, D.C.; it became the country's leading women's suffrage publication. She was an advocate of peace and took part in the great peace conference at San Francisco during the exposition. She also spoke on behalf of the soldiers of the Spanish War. During the Spanish–American War (1898), she was officially appointed as war correspondent, the first woman to be so recognized.\n\nIn addition to being a suffragist and newspaper publisher, Colby was a lecturer, an interpreter of Walt Whitman, and a writer. She was a delegate to the International Congress of Women (London, England, 1899); delegated by governor to represent Oregon in the First International Moral Education Congress (London, 1908); and a delegate to the First International Peace Congress (London, 1911). She served as Vice-president of the Nebraska Woman Suffrage Association, from its formation, 1881–83; and president, 1883–09. She was corresponding secretary of the Federal Suffrage Association of the United States. Colby wrote magazine articles for \"Arena\", \"Harper's Bazaar\", \"Overland\", \"Englishwoman\", and others. She was a newspaper correspondent for the International Peace Union, National Woman's Press Association, Oregon Woman's Press Association, Higher Thought Center (London), Woman's Freedom League, National Political Reform League, and International Woman's Franchise Club (London). She often appeared before state legislatures and congressional committees on behalf of woman suffrage; she also aided woman suffrage in England.\n\nColby was born in Gloucester, England in 1846, the daughter of Thomas and Clara Willingham (Chilton) Bewick. The family settled near Windsor, Wisconsin when Colby was eight. Being part of a large family, she had few opportunities for attending the district school, but her father encouraged and assisted his children to study in the winter evenings, and in this way she prepared herself to teach in country schools. Colby's grandfather, Thomas Bewick, was a notable naturalist and engraver.\n\nAt the age of nineteen, Colby went to Madison, Wisconsin to live with her grandparents, Stephen Chilton and Clara Medhurst Willingham Chilton. Here she entered the University of Wisconsin–Madison, then in its infancy, which was struggling with co-education. She exerted a marked influence in securing the admission of women to the university and the adoption of the principles of co-education in Wisconsin. She was graduated in 1869 as the valedictorian and Phi Beta Kappa in the first class of women graduated from the school. At once, she became a teacher of history and Latin in the institution, while pursuing graduate studies. She married Leonard Wright Colby, a graduate of the same university, in June 1871, and moved to Beatrice the following year, where he was elected to the Nebraska State Senate. Amidst the hardships of pioneer life in a new place, the young wife found her family cares all-absorbing, but her taste for study, her love of literature and her natural desire to improve the conditions about her, led her to establish Beatrice's free public library in 1873.\n\nColby edited a department in the \"Beatrice Express\" called \"Woman's Work,\" and in 1883, she founded, published, and edited \"The Woman's Tribune\". For several years, she was deeply interested in the movement for woman's enfranchisement, devoting her journal to the advocacy of this reform. \"The Woman's Tribune\" took the prize at the Paris Exposition in 1900 for its neatness and workman-like appearance, and it filled an important place in the history of the suffragist cause, being for a time the recognized organ of the National Woman Suffrage Association. A contemporary and friend of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Dr. Mary Edwards Walker, Colby lectured extensively not only to general audiences, but before legislative and congressional committees. In 1888, at the time of the great International Council of Women in Washington, D.C. Colby published the \"Tribune\" daily during the week of the council, and continued it through the Woman's Suffrage Convention the following week. It is probably the first instance of a daily woman's paper being published by a woman. During the period of 1885-98, she served as president of the Nebraska Woman Suffrage Association, and in 1895, she served as the chair of the Federal Suffrage Committee. She spoke in behalf of the soldiers of the Spanish–American War (1898); during the Spanish–American War, she was officially appointed as war correspondent, the first woman to be so recognized. She was also an advocate of peace at the Panama–Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco, California in 1915.\n\nWith an interest in esoteric spirituality, Colby was a contributor to Stanton's \"The Woman's Bible\" (1895). Colby lectured extensively in almost every state in the U.S. as well as in England, Ireland and Scotland, and also gave lectures at Budapest and other places in Europe. She took part in most of the great suffrage campaigns which were carried on in the different states in the effort to secure the franchise by vote of the electors. She made her home in Oregon for a time, taking part in several of the suffrage campaigns of that state. In 1899, she attended the Great International Council of Women held in London. While there Colby made the acquaintance of many distinguished suffrage workers. She served as a delegate to the International Moral Education Congress (London, 1908) and, in the same year, to the International Women Suffrage Alliance (Amsterdam). From the time of the discontinuance of the \"Tribune\" in 1909 until 1912, considerable time was spent in England in helping the English suffragists in their struggle for justice and in making acquaintance with many prominent English reformers. Of her experiences in England she published, from time to time, her accounts in the \"Washington Herald\". Among other writings she prepared a book entitled \"The History of London\" (unpublished), which was preserved by her sister, Dr. Mary B. White of Palo Alto, California. From 1911 through 1913, she served as a delegate to the International Races Congress (London, 1911); International Woman Suffrage Convention (Budapest, 1913); and the International Peace Conference (The Hague, 1913). During the winters of 1913-15, Colby lectured in Washington on topics such as:\n\nClara married Leonard in 1872 and they removed to Beatrice, Nebraska. Although they never had children of their own, they adopted a boy, Clarence (born ca. 1882), in 1885 from an Orphan Train. In 1891, Leonard returned home from the Battle of Wounded Knee with a Sioux baby, Zintkala Nuni (Lost Bird) and adopted her; Clara was away at this time, lecturing on suffrage issues. Leonard left with Lost Bird's nursemaid, and the Colbys divorced in 1906. The child was raised by Clara. A lifelong Congregationalist, Colby nonetheless had an interest in the New Thought spiritual movement; she served as an honorary leadership role in the International New Thought Alliance. Her health faded in her final years, and Colby died at her sister's home in Palo Alto in 1916 of pneumonia and myocarditis. Her ashes were buried in her childhood hometown of Windsor.\n\n"}
{"id": "202367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202367", "title": "Copts", "text": "Copts\n\nThe Copts (, ; , ) are an ethnoreligious group indigenous to Northeast Africa who primarily inhabit the area of modern Egypt, where they are the largest Christian denomination in the country. Copts are also the largest Christian adherent group in Sudan and Libya. Historically, they spoke the Coptic language, a direct descendant of the Demotic Egyptian that was spoken in late antiquity.\n\nCopts in Egypt constitute the largest Christian population in the Middle East and North Africa, as well as the largest religious minority in the region, accounting for an estimated 10–15% of the Egyptian population. Copts in Sudan constitute the largest Christian community in Sudan, and Copts in Libya constitute the largest Christian community in Libya, accounting for an estimated 1% of their respective populations.\n\nMost Copts adhere to the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria, an Oriental Orthodox church. The Coptic Catholic Church is an Eastern Catholic church in full communion with the Catholic Church.\n\nCopts of Egyptian ancestry maintain a distinct ethnic identity from Muslim Egyptians, generally rejecting an Arab identity. Genetically, Copts are a distinct population, albeit more closely related to the Muslims of Egypt than to any other population. Like other Egyptians, Copts are a diverse population, with considerable genetic, ethnic, and cultural differences persisting between Copts from Lower and Upper Egypt.\n\nThe word \"Copt\" was adopted in English in the 17th century, from New Latin \"Coptus, Cophtus\", which is derived from Arabic collective \"the Copts\" with nisba adjective , plural ; Also \"quftī, qiftī\" (where the Arabic represents the historical Coptic ) an Arabisation of the Coptic word \"kubti\" (Bohairic) or \"kuptaion\" (Sahidic). The Coptic word is in turn an adaptation of the Greek term for the indigenous people of Egypt, ().\n\nThe Greek term for Egypt, \"Aigýptos\" (), is itself derived from the Egyptian language, but dates to a much earlier period, being attested already in Mycenaean Greek as \"a-ku-pi-ti-jo\" (lit. \"Egyptian\"; used here as a man's name). This Mycenaean form is likely from Middle Egyptian (reconstructed pronunciation /ħawitˌkuʀpiˈtaħ/ → /ħawiʔˌkuʀpiˈtaħ/ → /ħəˌkuʔpəˈtaħ/, Egyptological pronunciation \"Hut-ka-Ptah\"), literally \"Estate/Palace of the kꜣ (\"double\" spirit) of Ptah\" (cf. Akkadian ), the name of the temple complex of the god Ptah at Memphis (and a synecdoche for the city of Memphis and the region around it).\n\nThe term is thus ultimately derived from the Greek designation of the native Egyptian population in Roman Egypt (as distinct from Greeks, Romans, Jews, etc.). After the Muslim conquest of Egypt, it became restricted to those Egyptians adhering to the Christian religion.\n\nIn Coptic, Copts referred to themselves as \"ni rem en kīmi en khristianos\" (), which literally means \"Christian people of Egypt\" or \"Christian Egyptians\". The Coptic name for Egyptians, \"rem en kīmi\" (), is realized in the Fayyumic Coptic as \"lem en kēmi\", or \"rem en khēmi\" in the Bohairic dialect; cf. Egyptian , Demotic .\n\nThe Arabic word \"Copt\" has also been connected to the Greek name of the town of Kóptos (, now Qifṭ; Coptic \"Kebt\" and \"Keft\"). It is possible that this association has contributed to making \"Copt\" the settled form of the name.\n\nIn the 20th century, some Egyptian nationalists and intellectuals in the context of Pharaonism began using the term in the historical sense.\n\nThe Copts are one of the oldest Christian communities in the Middle East. Although integrated in the larger Egyptian nation state, the Copts have survived as a distinct religious community forming around 10 to 20 percent of the population, though estimates vary. They pride themselves on the apostolicity of the Egyptian Church whose founder was the first in an unbroken chain of patriarchs. The main body for 16 centuries has been out of communion with both the Roman Catholic Church (in Rome) and the various Eastern orthodox churches.\n\nAccording to ancient tradition, Christianity was introduced within present day Egypt by Saint Mark in Alexandria, shortly after the ascension of Christ and during the reign of the Roman emperor Claudius around 42 AD. The legacy that Saint Mark left in Egypt was a considerable Christian community in Alexandria. From Alexandria, Christianity spread throughout Egypt within half a century of Saint Mark's arrival in Alexandria, as is clear from a fragment of the Gospel of John, written in Coptic, which was found in Upper Egypt and can be dated to the first half of the 2nd century, and the New Testament writings found in Oxyrhynchus, in Middle Egypt, which date around the year 200 AD. In the 2nd century, Christianity began to spread to the rural areas, and scriptures were translated into the local language, today known as the Coptic language, but known as the \"Egyptian language\" at the time. By the beginning of the 3rd century AD, Christians constituted the majority of Egypt’s population, and the Church of Alexandria was recognized as one of Christendom's four Apostolic Sees, second in honor only to the Church of Rome. The Church of Alexandria is therefore the oldest Christian church in Africa.\n\nThe Copts in Egypt contributed immensely to Christian tradition. The Catechetical School of Alexandria was the oldest catechetical school in the world. Founded around 190 AD by the scholar Pantanaeus, the school of Alexandria became an important institution of religious learning, where students were taught by scholars such as Athenagoras, Clement, Didymus, and Origen, the father of theology and who was also active in the field of commentary and comparative Biblical studies. However, the scope of this school was not limited to theological subjects; science, mathematics and humanities were also taught there. The question-and-answer method of commentary began there, and 15 centuries before Braille, wood-carving techniques were in use there by blind scholars to read and write.\n\nAnother major contribution made by the Copts in Egypt to Christianity was the creation and organization of monasticism. Worldwide Christian monasticism stems, either directly or indirectly, from the Egyptian example. The most prominent figures of the monastic movement were Anthony the Great, Paul of Thebes, Macarius the Great, Shenouda the Archimandrite and Pachomius the Cenobite. By the end of the 5th century, there were hundreds of monasteries, and thousands of cells and caves scattered throughout the Egyptian desert. Since then pilgrims have visited the Egyptian Desert Fathers to emulate their spiritual, disciplined lives. Saint Basil the Great Archbishop of Caesarea Mazaca, and the founder and organiser of the monastic movement in Asia Minor, visited Egypt around 357 AD and his monastic rules are followed by the Eastern Orthodox Churches. Saint Jerome, who translated the Bible into Latin, came to Egypt while en route to Jerusalem around 400 AD and left details of his experiences in his letters. Saint Benedict founded the Benedictine Order in the 6th century on the model of Saint Pachomius, although in a stricter form. Coptic Christians practice male circumcision as a rite of passage.\n\nThe major contributions that the See of Alexandria has contributed to the establishment of early Christian theology and dogma are attested to by fact that the first three Ecumenical councils in the history of Christianity were headed by Egyptian patriarchs. The Council of Nicaea (325 AD) was presided over by St. Alexander, Patriarch of Alexandria, along with Saint Hosius of Córdoba. In addition, the most prominent figure of the council was the future Patriarch of Alexandria Athanasius, who played the major role in the formulation of the Nicene Creed, recited today in most Christian churches of different denominations. One of the council's decisions was to entrust the Patriarch of Alexandria with calculating and annually announcing the exact date of Easter to the rest of the Christian churches. The Council of Constantinople (381 AD) was presided over by Patriarch Timothy of Alexandria, while the Council of Ephesus (431 AD) was presided over by Cyril of Alexandria.\n\nIn 451 AD, following the Council of Chalcedon, the Church of Alexandria was divided into two branches. Those who accepted the terms of the Council became known as Chalcedonians or Melkites. Those who did not abide by the Council's terms were labeled non-Chalcedonians or Monophysites and later Jacobites after Jacob Baradaeus. The non-Chalcedonians, however, rejected the term Monophysites as erroneous and referred to themselves as Miaphysites. The majority of the Egyptians belonged to the Miaphysite branch, which led to their persecution by the Byzantines in Egypt.\n\nIn 641 AD, Egypt was conquered by the Arabs who faced off with the Byzantine army. Local resistance by the Egyptians however began to materialize shortly thereafter and would last until at least the 9th century.\n\nUnder Muslim rule, Christians paid special taxes and had lower access to political power, but were exempt from military service. Their position improved dramatically under the rule of Muhammad Ali in the early 19th century. He abolished the Jizya (a tax on non-Muslims) and allowed Egyptians (Copts) to enroll in the army. Pope Cyril IV, 1854–61, reformed the church and encouraged broader Coptic participation in Egyptian affairs. Khedive Isma'il Pasha, in power 1863–79, further promoted the Copts. He appointed them judges to Egyptian courts and awarded them political rights and representation in government. They flourished in business affairs.\n\nSome Copts participated in the Egyptian national movement for independence and occupied many influential positions. Two significant cultural achievements include the founding of the Coptic Museum in 1910 and the Higher Institute of Coptic Studies in 1954. Some prominent Coptic thinkers from this period are Salama Moussa, Louis Awad and Secretary General of the Wafd Party Makram Ebeid.\n\nIn 1952, Gamal Abdel Nasser led some army officers in a coup d'état against King Farouk, which overthrew the Kingdom of Egypt and established a republic. Nasser's mainstream policy was pan-Arab nationalism and socialism. The Copts were severely affected by Nasser's nationalization policies, though they represented about 10 to 20 percent of the population. In addition, Nasser's pan-Arab policies undermined the Copts' strong attachment to and sense of identity about their Egyptian pre-Arab, and certainly non-Arab identity which resulted in permits to construct churches to be delayed along with Christian religious courts to be closed.\n\nMany Coptic intellectuals hold to Pharaonism, which states that Coptic culture is largely derived from pre-Christian, Pharaonic culture, and is not indebted to Greece. It gives the Copts a claim to a deep heritage in Egyptian history and culture. Pharaonism was widely held by Coptic and Muslim scholars in the early 20th century, and it helped bridge the divide between those groups. Some scholars see Pharaonism as shaped by Orientalism.\n\nToday, members of the non-Chalcedonian Coptic Orthodox Church constitute the majority of the Egyptian Christian population. Mainly through emigration and partly through European, American, and other missionary work and conversions, the Egyptian Christian community now also includes other Christian denominations such as Protestants (known in Arabic as Evangelicals), Roman Catholics and Eastern Rite Catholics, and other Orthodox congregations. The term \"Coptic\" remains exclusive however to the Egyptian natives, as opposed to the Christians of non-Egyptian origins. Some Protestant churches for instance are called \"Coptic Evangelical Church\", thus helping differentiate their native Egyptian congregations from churches attended by non-Egyptian immigrant communities such as Europeans or Americans.\n\nIn 2005, a group of Coptic activists created a flag to represent Copts worldwide.\n\nThe previous head of the Coptic Orthodox Church, Pope Shenouda III of Alexandria, died 17 March 2012. On 4 November 2012, Bishop Tawadros was chosen as the new pope of Egypt's Coptic Christians. His name was selected from a glass bowl containing the three shortlisted candidates by a blindfolded boy at a ceremony in Cairo's St Mark's Cathedral.\n\nSudan has a native Coptic minority, although many Copts in Sudan are descended from more recent Egyptian immigrants.\nCopts in Sudan live mostly in northern cities, including Al Obeid, Atbara, Dongola, Khartoum, Omdurman, Port Sudan, and Wad Medani. They number up to 500,000, or slightly over 1 percent of the Sudanese population. Due to their advanced education, their role in the life of the country has been more significant than their numbers suggest. They have occasionally faced forced conversion to Islam, resulting in their emigration and decrease in number.\n\nModern immigration of Copts to Sudan peaked in the early 19th century, and they generally received a tolerant welcome there. However, this was interrupted by a decade of persecution under Mahdist rule at the end of the 19th century. As a result of this persecution, many were forced to relinquish their faith, adopt Islam, and intermarry with the native Sudanese. The Anglo-Egyptian invasion in 1898 allowed Copts greater religious and economic freedom, and they extended their original roles as artisans and merchants into trading, banking, engineering, medicine, and the civil service. Proficiency in business and administration made them a privileged minority. However, the return of militant Islam in the mid-1960s and subsequent demands by radicals for an Islamic constitution prompted Copts to join in public opposition to religious rule.\n\nGaafar Nimeiry's introduction of Islamic Sharia law in 1983 began a new phase of oppressive treatment of Copts, among other non-Muslims. After the overthrow of Nimeiry, Coptic leaders supported a secular candidate in the 1986 elections. However, when the National Islamic Front overthrew the elected government of Sadiq al-Mahdi with the help of the military, discrimination against Copts returned in earnest. Hundreds of Copts were dismissed from the civil service and judiciary.\n\nIn February 1991, a Coptic pilot working for Sudan Airways was executed for illegal possession of foreign currency. Before his execution, he had been offered amnesty and money if he converted to Islam, but he refused. Thousands attended his funeral, and the execution was taken as a warning by many Copts, who began to flee the country.\n\nRestrictions on the Copts' rights to Sudanese nationality followed, and it became difficult for them to obtain Sudanese nationality by birth or by naturalization, resulting in problems when attempting to travel abroad. The confiscation of Christian schools and the imposition of an Arab-Islamic emphasis in language and history teaching were accompanied by harassment of Christian children and the introduction of hijab dress laws. A Coptic child was flogged for failing to recite a Koranic verse. In contrast with the extensive media broadcasting of the Muslim Friday prayers, the radio ceased coverage of the Christian Sunday service. As the civil war raged throughout the 1990s, the government focused its religious fervour on the south. Although experiencing discrimination, the Copts and other long-established Christian groups in the north had fewer restrictions than other types of Christians in the south.\n\nToday, the Coptic Church in Sudan is officially registered with the government, and is exempt from property tax. In 2005, the Sudanese government of National Unity (GNU) named a Coptic Orthodox priest to a government position, though the ruling Islamist party's continued dominance under the GNU provides ample reason to doubt its commitment to broader religious or ethnic representation.\n\nThe largest Christian group in Libya is the Coptic Orthodox Church, with a population of 60,000. The Coptic Church is known to have historical roots in Libya long before the Arabs advanced westward from Egypt into Libya.\n\nLiving in countries with Muslim majorities (Egypt, Sudan, Libya), the size of the population of Copts is a continuously disputed matter, frequently for reasons of religious jealousy and animosity.\n\nThe Coptic population in Egypt is difficult to estimate because researchers are forbidden by Egyptian authorities from asking a survey participant’s religion, but some official estimates state that Coptic Christians represent from 5 to 10 percent or less of a population of over 83 million Egyptians<ref name=\"U.S.Dept of State/Egypt\"></ref><ref name=\"FCO/Egypt/\"></ref><ref name=\"The world factbook/Egypt/\"></ref><ref name=\"msn encarta/Egypt\"></ref> while other independent and Christian sources estimate much higher numbers, up to 23 percent of the population.\n\nThe Coptic population in Sudan is at about half a million or 1 percent of Sudanese population.\n\nThe Coptic population in Libya is about over 60,000 or 1 percent of Libyan population.\n\nOutside of the Coptic primary area of residence within parts of present-day Egypt (Copts in Egypt), Sudan (Copts in Sudan), and Libya (Copts in Libya), the largest Coptic diaspora population is located within the United States, Canada, and Australia. The numbers of the Censuses in the United States, Canada, and Australia are not fully correct since many Copts listed themselves in the 2011 Census mistakenly as either Egyptians, Sudanese, Libyans, Americans, Canadians or Australians and by this way reducing the Coptic population in the 2011 Census in the United States, Canada, and Australia respectively.\n\nNevertheless, the Coptic American (US) population is estimated to number about 200,000 (estimates of Coptic organizations ranging as high as a million). The Coptic Canadian population is estimated to number about 50,000 (estimates of Coptic organizations ranging as high as 200,000). The Coptic Australian population is estimated to number about 50,000 (estimates of Coptic organizations ranging as high as 100,000).\n\nSmaller communities (below 100,000) are found in Australia,\nKuwait,\nthe United Kingdom,\nFrance, South Africa, and Canada.\n\nMinor communities below 10,000 people are reported from Jordan (8,000 Copts), Lebanon (3,000 – 4,000 Copts), Germany (3,000 Copts), Austria (2,000 Copts), Switzerland (1,000 Copts), and elsewhere.\n\nIt is noted that Copts also live in Denmark, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Russia, and Sweden.\n\nReligious freedom in Egypt is hampered to varying degrees by discriminatory and restrictive government policies. Coptic Christians, being the largest religious minority in Egypt, are also negatively affected. Copts have faced increasing marginalization after the 1952 coup d'état led by Gamal Abdel Nasser. Until recently, Christians were required to obtain presidential approval for even minor repairs in churches. Although the law was eased in 2005 by handing down the authority of approval to the governors, Copts continue to face many obstacles and restrictions in building new churches. These restrictions do not apply for building mosques.\n\nThe Coptic community has been targeted by hate crimes resulting in Copts being victims of murder by Islamic extremists. The most significant was the 2000–01 El Kosheh attacks, in which Muslims and Christians were involved in bloody inter-religious clashes following a dispute between a Muslim and a Christian. \"Twenty Christians and one Muslim were killed after violence broke out in the town of el-Kosheh, south of Cairo\". In February 2001 a new Coptic church and 35 houses belonging to Christians were burned.\n\nIn 2006, one person attacked three churches in Alexandria, killing one person and injuring 5–16. The attacker was not linked to any organisation and described as \"psychologically disturbed\" by the Ministry of Interior. In May 2010, The Wall Street Journal reported increasing waves of mob attacks by Muslims against Copts. Despite frantic calls for help, the police typically arrived after the violence was over. The police also coerced the Copts to accept \"reconciliation\" with their attackers to avoid prosecuting them, with no Muslims convicted for any of the attacks. In Marsa Matrouh, a Bedouin mob of 3,000 Muslims tried to attack the city's Coptic population, with 400 Copts having to barricade themselves in their church while the mob destroyed 18 homes, 23 shops and 16 cars.\n\nMembers of U.S. Congress have expressed concern about \"human trafficking\" of Coptic women and girls who are victims of abductions, forced conversion to Islam, sexual exploitation and forced marriage to Muslim men.\n\nBoutros Boutros-Ghali is a Copt who served as Egypt's foreign minister under President Anwar Sadat. Previously, only two Copts were in Egypt's governmental cabinet: Finance Minister Youssef Boutros Ghali and Environment Minister Magued George during former president Mubarak's rule. There also use to be one Coptic governor out of 25, that of the upper Egyptian governorate of Qena, and is the first Coptic governor in decades due to the higher concentration of Copts in Upper Egypt. In addition, Naguib Sawiris, an extremely successful businessman and one of the world's 100 wealthiest people, is a Copt. In 2002, under the Mubarak government, Coptic Christmas (January 7) was recognized as an official holiday. However, many Copts continue to complain of being minimally represented in law enforcement, state security and public office, and of being discriminated against in the workforce on the basis of their religion. Most Copts do not support independence or separation movement from other Egyptians.\n\nWhile freedom of religion is guaranteed by the Egyptian constitution, according to Human Rights Watch, \"Egyptians are able to convert to Islam generally without difficulty, but Muslims who convert to Christianity face difficulties in getting new identity papers and some have been arrested for allegedly forging such documents.\" The Coptic community, however, takes pains to prevent conversions from Christianity to Islam due to the ease with which Christians can often become Muslim. Public officials, being conservative themselves, intensify the complexity of the legal procedures required to recognize the religion change as required by law. Security agencies will sometimes claim that such conversions from Islam to Christianity (or occasionally vice versa) may stir social unrest, and thereby justify themselves in wrongfully detaining the subjects, insisting that they are simply taking steps to prevent likely social troubles from happening. In 2007, a Cairo administrative court denied 45 citizens the right to obtain identity papers documenting their reversion to Christianity after converting to Islam. However, in February 2008 the Supreme Administrative Court overturned the decision, allowing 12 citizens who had reverted to Christianity to re-list their religion on identity cards, but they will specify that they had adopted Islam for a brief period of time.\n\nThe Egyptian Census of 1897 reported the percentage of Non-Muslims in Urban Provinces as 14.7 percent (13.2 percent Christians, 1.4 percent Jews). The Egyptian Census of 1986 reported the percentage of Non-Muslims in Urban Provinces as 6.1 percent (5.7 percent Christians, 0 percent Jews). The decline in the Jewish representation is interpreted through the creation of the state of Israel, and the subsequent emigration of the Egyptian Jews. There is no explanation for a 55 percent decline in the percentage of Christians in Egypt. It has been suggested that Egyptian censuses held after 1952 have been politicized to under-represent the Christian population.\n\nIn August 2013, following the 3 July 2013 Coup and clashes between the military and Morsi supporters, there were widespread attacks on Coptic churches and institutions in Egypt by Sunni Muslims.\n\n\"USA Today\" reported that \"forty churches have been looted and torched, while 23 others have been attacked and heavily damaged\". More than 45 churches across Egypt were attacked. The Facebook page of the Muslim Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party was \"rife with false accusations meant to foment hatred against Copts\". The Party's page claimed that the Coptic Church had declared \"war against Islam and Muslims\" and that \"The Pope of the Church is involved in the removal of the first elected Islamist president. The Pope of the Church alleges Islamic Sharia is backwards, stubborn, and reactionary.\" On August 15, nine Egyptian human rights groups under the umbrella group \"Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights\", released a statement saying, \"In December … Brotherhood leaders began fomenting anti-Christian sectarian incitement. The anti-Coptic incitement and threats continued unabated up to the demonstrations of June 30 and, with the removal of President Morsi … morphed into sectarian violence, which was sanctioned by … the continued anti-Coptic rhetoric heard from the group's leaders on the stage … throughout the sit-in.\"\n\nThe Coptic language is the most recent stage of the Egyptian language. Coptic should more correctly be used to refer to the script rather than the language itself. Even though this script was introduced as far back as the 1st century BC, it has been applied to the writing of the Egyptian language from the 1st century AD to the present day. Coptic remained the spoken language of most Egyptians until it was slowly replaced by colloquial Egyptian Arabic around the 17th century, although it may have survived in isolated pockets for a little longer.\n\nToday, Coptic is the native language of only about 300 Copts around the world. It is also the liturgical language of the native Egyptian Churches (the Coptic Orthodox Church and the Coptic Catholic Church). It is taught worldwide in many prestigious institutions, but its teaching within Egypt remains limited.\n\nDialects of the Coptic language:\n\nThe Coptic calendar, also called the Alexandrian calendar, is used by the Coptic Orthodox Church and also by Ethiopia as its official calendar (with different names). This calendar is based on the ancient Egyptian calendar. To avoid the calendar creep of the latter, a reform of the ancient Egyptian calendar was introduced at the time of Ptolemy III (Decree of Canopus, in 238 BC) which consisted of the intercalation of a sixth epagomenal day every fourth year. However, this reform was opposed by the Egyptian priests, and the idea was not adopted until 25 BC, when the Roman Emperor Augustus formally reformed the calendar of Egypt, keeping it forever synchronized with the newly introduced Julian calendar. To distinguish it from the Ancient Egyptian calendar, which remained in use by some astronomers until medieval times, this reformed calendar is known as the Coptic calendar. Its years and months coincide with those of the Ethiopian calendar but have different numbers and names.\n\nThe Coptic year is the extension of the ancient Egyptian civil year, retaining its subdivision into the three seasons, four months each. The three seasons are commemorated by special prayers in the Coptic Liturgy. This calendar is still in use all over Egypt by farmers to keep track of the various agricultural seasons. The Coptic calendar has 13 months, 12 of 30 days each and an intercalary month at the end of the year of 5 or 6 days, depending whether the year is a leap year or not. The year starts on 29 August in the Julian Calendar or on the 30th in the year before (Julian) Leap Years. The Coptic Leap Year follows the same rules as the Julian Calendar so that the extra month always has six days in the year before a Julian Leap Year.\n\nThe Feast of Neyrouz marks the first day of the Coptic year. Ignorant of the Egyptian language for the most part, the Arabs confused the Egyptian new year's celebrations, which the Egyptians called the feast of \"Ni-Yarouou\" (the feast the rivers), with the Persian feast of Nowruz. The misnomer remains today, and the celebrations of the Egyptian new year on the first day of the month of Thout are known as the Neyrouz. Its celebration falls on the 1st day of the month of Thout, the first month of the Egyptian year, which for AD 1901 to 2098 usually coincides with 11 September, except before a Gregorian leap year when it's September 12. Coptic years are counted from AD 284, the year Diocletian became Roman Emperor, whose reign was marked by tortures and mass executions of Christians, especially in Egypt. Hence, the Coptic year is identified by the abbreviation A.M. (for \"Anno Martyrum\" or \"Year of the Martyrs\"). The A.M. abbreviation is also used for the unrelated Jewish year (\"Anno Mundi\").\n\nEvery fourth Coptic year is a leap year \"without exception\", as in the Julian calendar, so the above-mentioned new year dates apply only between AD 1900 and 2099 inclusive in the Gregorian Calendar. In the Julian Calendar, the new year is \"always\" 29 August, except before a Julian leap year when it's August 30. Easter is reckoned by the Julian Calendar in the Old Calendarist way.\n\nTo obtain the Coptic year number, subtract from the Julian year number either 283 (before the Julian new year) or 284 (after it).\n\nGenetic studies of Coptic Egyptians revealed them to be distinct from Muslim Egyptians insofar as they contained less non-Egyptian ancestry. Nevertheless, Copts are more closely related to Muslim Egyptians than any other population, and share most of their ancestry with the Muslims. More broadly, studies have showed Copts to be genetically intermediary between the populations of southern Europe and Nubia (two frequently-used reference points), with greater European affinities in the north and greater East African in the south.. A study of Coptic immigrants from northern Egypt indicated that they are most closely related to Muslim Egyptians, as well as the populations of the southern Levant and Saudi Arabia.\n\nAccording to Y-DNA analysis by Hassan et al. (2008), around 45% of Copts in Sudan carry the haplogroup J. The remainder mainly belong to the E1b1b clade (21%). Both paternal lineages are common among other local Afroasiatic-speaking populations (Beja, Ethiopians, Sudanese Arabs), as well as many Nubians. E1b1b/E3b reaches its highest frequencies among North Africans, Levantine Middle Easterners, and Ethiopid Northeast Africans. The next most common haplogroups borne by Copts are the European-linked R1b clade (15%), as well as the archaic African B lineage (15%).\n\nMaternally, Hassan (2009) found that Copts in Sudan exclusively carry various descendants of the macrohaplogroup N. This mtDNA clade is likewise closely associated with local Afroasiatic-speaking populations, including Berbers and Ethiopid peoples. Of the N derivatives borne by Copts, U6 is most frequent (28%), followed by the haplogroup T (17%).\n\nA 2015 study by Dobon et al. identified an ancestral autosomal component of West Eurasian origin that is common to many modern Afroasiatic-speaking populations in Northeast Africa. Known as the \"Coptic\" component, it peaks among Egyptian Copts who settled in Sudan over the past two centuries. Copts also formed a separated group in PCA, a close outlier to other Egyptians, Afro-Asiatic-speaking Northeast Africans and Middle East populations. The Coptic component evolved out of a main Northeast African and Middle Eastern ancestral component that is shared by other Egyptians and also found at high frequencies among other Afro-Asiatic-speaking populations in Northeast Africa (~70%). The scientists suggest that this points to a common origin for the general population of Egypt. They also associate the Coptic component with Ancient Egyptian ancestry, without the later Arabian influence that is present among other Egyptians.\n\nSome of the most well known Copts include \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7873233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7873233", "title": "César Award for Most Promising Actress", "text": "César Award for Most Promising Actress\n\nThe César Award for Most Promising Actress () is one of the César Awards, presented annually by the Académie des Arts et Techniques du Cinéma to recognize the outstanding breakthrough performance of a young actress who has worked within the French film industry during the year preceding the ceremony. Nominees and winner are selected via a run-off voting by all the members of the Académie, within a group of 16 actresses previously shortlisted by the Révélations Committee.\n\nIn English, the award is variously referred to as \"Breakthrough performance, actress\" or \"Newcomer, female\".\n\nFollowing the AATC's practice, the films below are listed by year of ceremony, which corresponds to the year following the film's year of release. For example, the César Award for Most Promising Actress of 2010 was awarded on 27 February 2010 for a performance in a film released between 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009.\n\nAs with the other César awards, actresses are selected via a two-round vote: first round to choose the nominees, second round to designate the winner. All the members of the Académie, without regard to their branch, are eligible to vote on both rounds. But in order to \"facilitate\" the nomination vote, the Révélations Committee of the Académie, consisting of casting directors, establishes and proposes a list of a maximum of 16 actresses. However, this list is non-binding and Académie members are free to vote for an actress who has not been shortlisted. Initially set to four, the number of nominees was expanded to five in 1990.\n\nWinners are listed first in bold, followed by the other nominees.\n\nEach year, the Academy's Governing Board and the Révélations Committee (made up of casting directors working in French film productions) propose a list of a maximum of 16 young actresses (\"Révélations des César\") to facilitate the voting for the \"Most Promising Actress\" award. Since 2007, all young actresses who have worked on French feature-length films or primarily French-language productions are eligible for the list. However, beginning from 2013, an actress cannot qualify for the list more than twice. The \"Révélations\" are also featured in a short film directed by an artist appointed by the Academy yearly. The short film, unveiled at a gala dinner which is organised in honour of the \"Révélations\", is also later screened at select cinemas in France.\n\nNominees of the César Award for Most Promising Actress are highlighted in boldface.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48492933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48492933", "title": "DKBA-5", "text": "DKBA-5\n\nThe Democratic Karen Buddhist Army - Brigade 5 (; abbreviated DKBA-5), also known as the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army (; abbreviated DKBA) and the Klo Htoo Baw Battalion by the Burmese government, is a Karen Buddhist insurgent group in Myanmar. The group was led by Bo Nat Khann Mway, also known as \"Saw Lah Pwe\", until his death in 2016. \n\nThe DKBA-5 split from the original Democratic Karen Buddhist Army in 2010 and is loosely affiliated with the Karen National Union. They have also worked with the Arakan Army.\n\nDuring the 2010 general election, the DKBA-5 attacked government troops and security forces in Myawaddy Township, Kayin State. The group signed a ceasefire agreement with the government on 3 November 2011, though they have not agreed to disarming, unlike their DKBA predecessors in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "16508141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16508141", "title": "Dost Mahomet", "text": "Dost Mahomet\n\nDost Mahomet Baloch (c. 1873–1909) was an Australian Baloch cameleer, who used his animals to transport goods between the ports and remote inland mining and pastoral settlements of the Goldfields, Pilbara and Murchison regions of Western Australia at the end of the 19th century.\n\nIn 1893, Dost disembarked at the port of Fremantle, Western Australia with 25 camels. He trekked inland with them to Coolgardie seeking work at the new gold diggings. In his early years in the colony, Dost attended night classes at Perth Boys High School to learn English in which he became very proficient. Dost also has a great-great-great grandson named Jacob Mahomet who attend Dost's 150th anniversary celebration for Burke and Wills\n\nGold was first discovered in Coolgardie in 1892 beginning the famous Coolgardie-Kalgoorlie gold rush for surface gold and, later, the extensive underground mining of gold which is still underway. Camel transport operators quickly established themselves here, many living in a tent settlement at the end of Coolgardie Street. Demand for transport was high and Dost acquired more camels and found men to work for him.\n\nOver the next decade, Dost carried goods to remote settlements further north including Laverton, Wiluna, Cue, Port Hedland and Marble Bar. He had drays built to help in haulage. Pastoral stations had been edging northwards following reports from exploring expeditions led by John and Alexander Forrest, Lawrence Wells, David Lindsay and John Wedge. Many of these expeditions relied on some camel transport. De Gray, Mundabullaangana, Pardoo, Tabba Tabba and Wallareenya were all pastoral stations, well established before Port Hedland became a gazetted town in 1896. Camels were still to be seen loaded with wool bales loping between some of these stations and the rail head until the mid nineteen thirties.\n\nMining operations in the Pilbara preceded those at Coolgardie with gold, tin, lead, zinc, tantalite, antimony and bismuth being among the minerals chipped from the Pilbara rocks and sands during this period. The miners needed equipment, large and small. Small stores and hotels alongside prospecting sites retailed food, drink, clothing and other supplies which were brought in by camels as well as teams of horses and bullocks and, eventually, by rail from the Whim Creek wharves. Five years after the shifting of the port to Port Hedland, a new rail link was made to Marble Bar.\n\nDost set up a permanent base at Port Hedland in 1906 servicing the Pilbara region. Although his older brother Jorak had preceded Dost to Western Australia, it was Dost who became the leading figure among the cameleers in the north-west. Other Baluch relatives worked in the area alongside other cameleers from Pakistan,Balochistan, Afghanistan and northern India. Many made journeys back and forth between Western Australia, South Australia and their birthplaces. By law, all were subject to racial restrictions applying to migration, type of business, occupation, employment and location. For example, after 1897, on departure, special permission was needed for those wishing to return to Western Australia. Following the Federation of the Australian colonies, continued residence and entry again required legal permit.\n\nEuropean cameleers also worked in the Pilbara, usually hitching wagons behind camel teams, unlike the method of loading individual camels traditionally used by Baloch and Afghan cameleers.\n\nIn 1908, not long after Dost settled in Port Hedland, storekeepers at Marble Bar began arranging contracts with some of the camel operators to have their goods transported from the Port Hedland wharves. Contract rates were lower than the established going rates. Tensions flared. Non contractors refused to cart for the storekeepers and went “on strike” rallying against “non-union” rates. Two hundred and fifty camels at 32 Mile Well were unhobbled and scattered into the scrub. Camel loads were flung to the ground. The dispute was eventually settled after police and officials from both Perth and the local area intervened and facilitated discussions between the opposing parties. Troubles resurfaced periodically - three years later agreement was reached to almost double cartage rates, but it had been a period of financial stress to the cameleers.\n\nIn Coolgardie, Dost Mahomet formed a lasting relationship with Annie Charlotte Grigo, whom he met when she was working at a bakery run by her father. The bakery owner was John de Braun, who also owned the gentleman's grand hotel, the Esplanade in Perth. Annie's family had migrated from Peak Downs in Queensland. Annie's parents were European born – her mother in Horsens, Denmark, her father in Mitchulan, Prussia.\n\nMarriage was opposed by Annie's father and brothers. The pair eloped by camel and took ship to India. At Lal Bhaker, Dost's birthplace, the two were married by traditional Muslim custom. Annie was 17 years old. Their firstborn was a son, Mustafa born 1896. Annie and Dost then returned to the camel business in Western Australia, leaving their first born in the village.\n\nFive children were born in Western Australia - Lillian Rosetta (1898–1970), Hagu (Ada) 1902-1987), Alious Ameer (Arthur) (c.1904-1988), Jenneth (Jean) (1906-), Pathama (Violet) (1908–1983). The couple led a mobile life working the camels through the goldfields and stations of northwest Western Australia, finally establishing a permanent home in Port Hedland where they were respected members of a small town of approximately 200 by 1909. Their home was built on the block they bought in Kingsmill St. In a seeming challenge to Dost's strict Muslim practices, he bought the old brewery opposite the Esplanade Hotel. The eldest two girls attended the local primary school when it opened in 1906 alongside other children of European, Aboriginal and Chinese descent.\n\nCamels were hobbled away from the town. The family milked goats for milk and butter.\n\nDespite earlier family antagonisms, once established at Port Hedland, Dost provided finance to assist his wife's sister in her purchase of a hotel a few kilometres from the town. He also assisted two of Annie's brothers in gaining employment and becoming established in business. Life within the extended family, however was often not harmonious.The brothers were heavy drinkers, sometimes violent and not always respectful of Muslim practices.\n\nDost was a short, but strong man. Wrestling was a sport he engaged in, occasionally with Europeans, but more frequently with other cameleers. He also had a reputation for quick temper and there are reports of physical violence in the home.\n\nBoth parents died violently not longer after building their Australian-style home at Port Hedland.\n\nThe full circumstances of Dost's death in 1909 are unclear. It is known that Dost was killed at home during a long and fearsome fight with his two brothers-in-law. One of them fatally smashed open the back of Dost's skull with a heavy piece of jarrah. The two brothers stood trial in Broome in June 1909 but were acquitted of murder. Dost's relatives attributed Dost's death to Annie's brothers and held Annie at least partially responsible for their acquittal.\n\nDost was a man of wealth as well as standing when he died. He had left a written will bequeathing his assets to his children and Annie and designating his brother Jorak as executor. Annie left accounts that Jorak was withholding money from her and that life was very difficult. She finally agreed to Jorak's offer of financial security and a good education for the children on condition that she return to India with the children. But, she boarded ship in fear for her life.\n\nIn Karachi, she took precautions, for example, establishing contact with the British Resident in the town. She was well remembered by many of Dost's relatives around Karachi, working and joking alongside women in the village in their day-to-day lives. Warned by some of them of threats to her life, she and the children moved one evening to a compound the other side of Karachi gaining the protection of a trusted relative.\n\nAnnie slept with a small revolver under her pillow and a watchdog outside. Three months after landing in Karachi, in August 1910, Annie was stabbed to death in her bed while her two youngest children lay alongside. Two nephews and a third person were charged with murder but were acquitted because of lack of identification.\n\nAfter the court trial, the five youngest children were returned to Australia under an agreement between the district magistrate at Karachi and the Federal and Western Australian Governments. They were eventually placed in the care of the State. After their deaths, accounts of their parents' assets included camels, property in Port Hedland, monies owing to the estates, and jewelry, but the children did not come to inherit any of this.\n\nWith the exception of 15 hours of taped interviews by the Battye Library in Perth, very little account of their early lives was passed on by the Australian born children. In sharp contrast, many stories about Dost and Annie have been handed down among the relatives around Karachi.\n\nThe tamarind tree that still grows in Port Hedland at the site known as One Mile is reputed to have been planted by Dost Mahomet.\n\n\nJayne Garnaut, \"Events in the lives of Annie and Dost Mahomet\". Document 0040g.\n"}
{"id": "33687298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33687298", "title": "East Side Kids", "text": "East Side Kids\n\nThe East Side Kids were characters in a series of films released by Monogram Pictures from 1940 through 1945. Many of them were originally part of The Dead End Kids and The Little Tough Guys, and several of them later became members of The Bowery Boys.\n\nWhen Samuel Goldwyn turned the play \"Dead End\" into the 1937 film version, he recruited the original tough-talking kids from the play (Leo Gorcey, Huntz Hall, Bobby Jordan, Gabriel Dell, Billy Halop, and Bernard Punsly) to repeat their roles in the film. This led to the making of six other films starring The Dead End Kids. The most successful of these features were \"Angels with Dirty Faces\" (1938) with James Cagney and Humphrey Bogart, and \"They Made Me a Criminal\" (1939), starring John Garfield. Universal offered a competing series, under the Little Tough Guys brand name, later combining the Little Tough Guys cast members with the Dead End Kids (minus Gorcey) as the Dead End Kids and Little Tough Guys series.\n\nIn 1940 producer Sam Katzman, noting the financial success of other tough-kid series, made the film \"East Side Kids\" using two of the 'Little Tough Guys', Hally Chester and Harris Berger. He added former Our Gang player Donald Haines, Frankie Burke, radio actor Sam Edwards, and Eddie Brian to round out the new team. The film served as a kind of \"pilot\" for a possible series of films, which were eventually made possible by this film's success.\n\nKatzman hired former Dead End Kid Bobby Jordan to play the lead in the first film in the series proper, \"Boys of the City\" and he was soon joined in the series by Leo Gorcey. Gorcey's brother David was also added, as well as (Ernie) 'Sunshine' Sammy Morrison as \"Scruno,\" the only African-American in the group and a former child actor from the very first cast of the Our Gang comedy team.\n\nIn the first few films, Dave O'Brien (familiar from low-budget westerns and serials, and as the accident-prone star of the Pete Smith comedies) played Jordan's older brother \"Knuckles Dolan,\" who always seemed to be getting roped into chaperoning the kids from adventure to adventure. O'Brien appeared in different roles as well—continuity between films was often ignored. As with the Little Tough Guys, the membership of the team changed from film to film, until Huntz Hall joined in 1941, when the lineup was somewhat stabilized. In total, 20 actors were members of the team at one time or another.\nAlways the outsider, Gabriel Dell drifted in and out of the series as a gang-member, a reporter, or a small-time hoodlum (as in \"Million Dollar Kid\"). In \"Smart Alecks\" he's an ex-member who left the gang to pursue a life of crime. Stanley Clements also appeared in \"Smart Alecks\" as well as \"'Neath Brooklyn Bridge\" and \"Ghosts on the Loose\". After Gorcey left the subsequent \"Bowery Boys\" series in 1956, Clements was chosen to replace him in the last seven films.\n\nMonogram (which later became Allied Artists) was notorious for its \"Poverty Row\" productions, and the East Side films were no exception. With a minuscule budget of around $33,000 per feature and a tight shooting schedule of only 5–7 days, the series churned out three or four movies a year (an astonishing 21 films in less than six years). There was no time or money for subtlety, story development, or more than one or two takes per scene.\n\nThe stories always centered on the tough, pugnacious \"Muggs McGinnis\" (Gorcey) or the more innocent, clean-cut \"Danny\" (Bobby Jordan). Huntz Hall's \"Glimpy\" began as a minor character who grew in prominence as he was allowed to do more comedy bits over the course of the series. The loose format proved flexible enough to shift back and forth between urban drama (\"That Gang of Mine\"), murder mystery (\"Boys of the City\"), boxing melodrama (\"Bowery Blitzkrieg\"), and horror-comedy (\"Spooks Run Wild\"), with the kids confronting various stock villains: gangsters, smugglers, spies, and crooked gamblers, along the way. The East Side films were problem-teen melodramas until 1943, when director William Beaudine joined the series and emphasized the comedy content. He encouraged the actors to improvise freely, adding to the films' spontaneous charm.\n\nThe contemporaneous events of World War II affected the series as well as the cast. In 1943 Béla Lugosi (who was in \"Spooks Run Wild\") returned as a Nazi saboteur in the incongruously-titled \"Ghosts on the Loose\" which also featured a young Ava Gardner; a German-Japanese spy ring was thwarted in the blatantly patriotic \"Let's Get Tough!\" from 1942 (with Gabriel Dell, of all people, as a Nazi spy). At the end of \"Kid Dynamite\" Muggs, Danny, and Glimpy enlist and show off their uniforms. In \"Follow The Leader\" (1944), Muggs and Glimpy appear in uniform as they are on leave from the Army. Offscreen, between 1942 and 1944, cast members Billy Benedict, Morrison, Jordan, Dell, and David Gorcey left the series after being drafted. A few days after receiving \"his\" induction notice, Leo Gorcey suffered a near-fatal motorcycle accident and spent almost a year in recovery. His injuries led to a 4-F classification, rendering him unfit for military service.\n\nDuring Bobby Jordan's absence, his role in the series was taken by former child actor David Durand. Durand had been the star of Columbia's series of \"Glove Slingers\" campus comedies, and lent the same earnest sincerity to his East Side Kids appearances. (Jordan returned in 1944, in uniform, for a guest appearance in \"Bowery Champs\".)\n\nStarting with \"Clancy Street Boys\" in 1943, Bernard Gorcey (Leo's father) did various bit parts, playing different characters in a total of seven films. In \"Million Dollar Kid\" he and Leo exchanged banter borrowed from an Abbott and Costello routine. He later became a fixture with The Bowery Boys.\n\nGiven the low budgets, simplistic stories, and crude, assembly-line production of the East Side Kids series, its enduring popularity relies on the cast's rambunctious energy, breezy banter (often ad-libbed and containing inside jokes), fast-paced action, and Leo Gorcey's trademark malapropisms (\"This calls for drastic measurements\").\n\nThe East Side Kids series was supplanted by The Bowery Boys in 1946.\n\n\n\nMany of the East Side Kids programs were re-released by Astor Pictures, Favorite Films, and Savoy Pictures Corporation, the latter two companies owned by former Monogram executives\n\n\n"}
{"id": "598936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=598936", "title": "Edward Gibson", "text": "Edward Gibson\n\nEdward George Gibson (born November 8, 1936) is a former NASA astronaut, pilot, engineer, and physicist.\n\nBefore becoming a NASA astronaut, Gibson graduated from the University of Rochester and the California Institute of Technology. He became a research assistant in jet propulsion while completing his studies and eventually became a research scientist for Philco Corporation until joining NASA.\n\nGibson was selected as an astronaut by NASA in 1965 as part of Astronaut Group 4, the first group of scientist-astronauts. He served on the support crew of Apollo 12 before moving on to work on the development of the Skylab space station. In 1973–74, Gibson made his first and only flight into space as science pilot aboard Skylab 4, the third and final manned flight to Skylab. He, along with Commander Gerald Carr and Pilot William Pogue, spent just over 84 days in space. Gibson resigned from NASA in December 1974, but returned in 1977 to preside over the selection of scientist-astronaut candidates. Gibson retired from NASA for the last time in October 1982.\n\nGibson was born in Buffalo, New York, on November 8, 1936. From ages 2 to 8, Gibson battled osteomyelitissoft spots in bonesand spent many months in and out of hospitals. Newly-available penicillin cured the disease. To strengthen his leg that was nearly amputated, Gibson took up sports: swimming, football, and track.\n\nHe graduated from Kenmore Senior High School in Kenmore, New York and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering from the University of Rochester in June 1959. At the University of Rochester, Gibson became a member of the Theta Chi fraternity. He received a Master of Science degree in engineering (jet propulsion option) from the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) in June 1960 and a Ph.D. in engineering with a minor in physics from Caltech in June 1964. Gibson has also been presented with honorary doctorates of science from the University of Rochester and Wagner College in New York City, both in 1974.\n\nHe was active in the Boy Scouts of America. He earned the rank of First Class.\n\nWhile studying at Caltech, Gibson was a research assistant in the field of jet propulsion and classical physics. His technical publications are in the fields of plasma physics and solar physics. He was senior research scientist with the Applied Research Laboratories of the Philco Corporation at Newport Beach, California, from June 1964 until moving to NASA. While at Philco, he did research in lasers and the optical breakdown of gases.\n\nGibson has logged more than 4,300 hours flying time—2,270 hours in jet aircraft.\n\nGibson was selected as a scientist-astronaut by NASA in June 1965. He completed a 53-week course in flight training at Williams Air Force Base, Arizona, and earned his Air Force wings. Since then, he has flown helicopters and the T-38.\n\nHe served as a member of the astronaut support crew and as a CAPCOM for the Apollo 12 lunar landing, becoming the first from the scientist-astronaut group to get a crew assignment of any kind. He also participated in the design and testing of many elements of the Skylab space station. As part of his preparation for the Skylab program, Gibson studied solar physics, ultimately writing an introductory monograph/textbook on solar astrophysics \"The Quiet Sun\", apart from 1973 English edition published in the United States there was 1977 Russian edition of this book, published in the Soviet Union by Mir Publishers.\n\nGibson was the Science Pilot of Skylab 4 (third and final manned visit to the Skylab space station), launched November 16, 1973, and concluded February 8, 1974. This was the longest manned flight (84 days 1 hour 15 minutes) in the history of manned space exploration at that time. Gibson was accompanied on the record-setting 34.5-million-mile flight by Gerald P. Carr (Commander) and William R. Pogue (Pilot). They successfully completed 56 experiments, 26 science demonstrations, 15 subsystem detailed objectives, and 13 student investigations during their 1,214 revolutions of the Earth. They also acquired a wide variety of earth resources observations data using Skylab’s earth resources experiment package camera and sensor array. Dr. Gibson was the crewman primarily responsible for the 338 hours of Apollo Telescope Mount operation, which made extensive observations of solar processes.\n\nUntil March 1978, Gibson and his Skylab-4 teammates held the world record for individual time in space: 2,017 hours 15 minutes 32 seconds, and Gibson logged 15 hours and 22 minutes in three EVAs outside the Skylab Orbital Workshop.\n\nGibson resigned from NASA in December 1974 to do research on Skylab solar physics data as a senior staff scientist with the Aerospace Corporation of Los Angeles, California. Beginning in March 1976, he served for one year as a consultant to ERNO Raumfahrttechnik GmbH, in West Germany, on Spacelab design under the sponsorship of a U.S. Senior Scientist Award form the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. In March 1977, Gibson returned to the Astronaut Office astronaut candidate selection and training as Chief of the Scientist-Astronaut Candidates. During his second tenure at NASA, Gibson had hoped to fly on another space station mission due to his experience on Skylab, but at the same time was not keen on flying a Space Shuttle mission. Gibson ultimately decided to retire from NASA again on October 31, 1982 and began working for TRW.\n\nIn October 1990, Gibson began his own consulting firm, Gibson International Corp. The firm provides consulting services on program management, market development and space infrastructure design and operations.\n\nAfter his NASA career, Gibson held marketing and program management positions with Booz Allen Hamilton and TRW in the areas of space and energy development. He was the President of the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry and his own consulting company, Gibson International. Currently he is Senior vice president, Science Applications International Corporation, and manager of its EROS Data Center Operation in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.\n\nHe has performed a significant amount of speaking and writing, having published a text book in solar physics, two novels (\"Reach\" and \"In the Wrong Hands\"), and edited \"The Greatest Adventure\", a compilation of stories and pictures on space missions from many astronauts and cosmonauts around the world.\n\nGibson was elected a fellow of the American Astronautical Society. He is a member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) and a member of Tau Beta Pi, an engineering honorary organization. Gibson much later became a member of the Seniors Track Club.\n\nGibson was awarded a National Science Foundation Fellowship and the R.C. Baker Fellowship at the California Institute of Technology, and he is listed in several \"Who's Who\" publications. He received the Johnson Space Center Certificate of Commendation (1970), the NASA Distinguished Service Medal (presented by President Richard M. Nixon in 1974) and the NASA Space Flight Medal, the City of New York Gold Medal (1974), the Robert J. Collier Trophy for (1974), the Dr. Robert H. Goddard Memorial Trophy for 1975 (1975), the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale awarded him the De la Vaulx Medal and the V. M. Komarov Diploma for 1974 (1975), the American Astronautical Society’s 1975 Flight Achievement Award (1976), the AIAA Haley Astronautics Award for 1975 (1976), a Senior U.S. Scientist Award from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (1976), and a JSC Special Achievement Award (1978). He was inducted into the U.S. Astronaut Hall of Fame in 1997.\n\nGibson is married to Julie Anne Volk of Tonawanda, New York. He has four children: Jannet Lynn (born November 9, 1960), John Edward (born May 2, 1964), Julie Ann (born October 12, 1968), and Joseph Michael (born July 11, 1971).\n\nIn the 1998 HBO miniseries \"From the Earth to the Moon\" (1998), Gibson was played by actor Geoffrey Nauffts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9732", "title": "Eli Whitney", "text": "Eli Whitney\n\nEli Whitney (December 8, 1765January 8, 1825) was an American inventor best known for inventing the cotton gin. This was one of the key inventions of the Industrial Revolution and shaped the economy of the Antebellum South. Whitney's invention made upland short cotton into a profitable crop, which strengthened the economic foundation of slavery in the United States. Despite the social and economic impact of his invention, Whitney lost many profits in legal battles over patent infringement for the cotton gin. Thereafter, he turned his attention into securing contracts with the government in the manufacture of muskets for the newly formed United States Army. He continued making arms and inventing until his death in 1825.\n\nWhitney was born in Westborough, Massachusetts, on December 8, 1765, the eldest child of Eli Whitney Sr., a prosperous farmer, and his wife Elizabeth Fay, also of Westborough.\n\nAlthough the younger Eli, born in 1765, could technically be called a \"Junior\", history has never known him as such. He was famous during his lifetime and afterward by the name \"Eli Whitney\". His son, born in 1820, also named Eli, was well known during his lifetime and afterward by the name \"Eli Whitney, Jr.\"\n\nWhitney's mother, Elizabeth Fay, died in 1777, when he was 11. At age 14 he operated a profitable nail manufacturing operation in his father's workshop during the Revolutionary War.\n\nBecause his stepmother opposed his wish to attend college, Whitney worked as a farm laborer and school teacher to save money. He prepared for Yale at Leicester Academy (now Becker College) and under the tutelage of Rev. Elizur Goodrich of Durham, Connecticut, he entered in the fall of 1789 and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1792. Whitney expected to study law but, finding himself short of funds, accepted an offer to go to South Carolina as a private tutor.\nInstead of reaching his destination, he was convinced to visit Georgia. In the closing years of the 18th century, Georgia was a magnet for New Englanders seeking their fortunes (its Revolutionary-era governor had been Lyman Hall, a migrant from Connecticut). When he initially sailed for South Carolina, among his shipmates were the widow (Catherine Littlefield Greene) and family of the Revolutionary hero Gen. Nathanael Greene of Rhode Island. Mrs. Greene invited Whitney to visit her Georgia plantation, Mulberry Grove. Her plantation manager and husband-to-be was Phineas Miller, another Connecticut migrant and Yale graduate (class of 1785), who would become Whitney's business partner.\n\nWhitney is most famous for two innovations which came to have significant impacts on the United States in the mid-19th century: the cotton gin (1793) and his advocacy of interchangeable parts. In the South, the cotton gin revolutionized the way cotton was harvested and reinvigorated slavery. In the North the adoption of interchangeable parts revolutionized the manufacturing industry, and contributed greatly to the U.S. victory in the Civil War.\n\nThe cotton gin is a mechanical device that removes the seeds from cotton, a process that had previously been extremely labor-intensive. The word \"gin\" is short for \"engine.\" While staying at Mulberry Grove, Whitney constructed several ingenious household devices which led Mrs Greene to introduce him to some businessmen who were discussing the desirability of a machine to\nseparate the short staple upland cotton from its seeds, work that was then done by hand at the rate of a pound of lint a day. In a few weeks Whitney produced a model. The cotton gin was a wooden drum stuck with hooks that pulled the cotton fibers through a mesh. The cotton seeds would not fit through the mesh and fell outside. Whitney occasionally told a story wherein he was pondering an improved method of seeding the cotton when he was inspired by observing a cat attempting to pull a chicken through a fence, and could only pull through some of the feathers.\n\nA single cotton gin could generate up to of cleaned cotton daily. This contributed to the economic development of the Southern states of the United States, a prime cotton growing area; some historians believe that this invention allowed for the African slavery system in the Southern United States to become more sustainable at a critical point in its development.\n\nWhitney received a patent (later numbered as X72) for his cotton gin on March 14, 1794, but it was not validated until 1807. Whitney and his partner, Miller, did not intend to sell the gins. Rather, like the proprietors of grist and sawmills, they expected to charge farmers for cleaning their cotton – two-fifths of the value, paid in cotton. Resentment at this scheme, the mechanical simplicity of the device and the primitive state of patent law, made infringement inevitable. Whitney and Miller could not build enough gins to meet demand, so gins from other makers found ready sale. Ultimately, patent infringement lawsuits consumed the profits (one patent, later annulled, was granted in 1796 to Hogden Holmes for a gin which substituted circular saws for the spikes) and their cotton gin company went out of business in 1797. One oft-overlooked point is that there were drawbacks to Whitney's first design. There is significant evidence that the design flaws were solved by his sponsor, Mrs. Greene, but Whitney gave her no public credit or recognition.\n\nAfter validation of the patent, the legislature of South Carolina voted $50,000 for the rights for that state, while North Carolina levied a license tax for five years, from which about $30,000 was realized. There is a claim that Tennessee paid, perhaps, $10,000.\nWhile the cotton gin did not earn Whitney the fortune he had hoped for, it did give him fame. It has been argued by some historians that Whitney's cotton gin was an important if unintended cause of the American Civil War. After Whitney's invention, the plantation slavery industry was rejuvenated, eventually culminating in the Civil War.\n\nAnd the cotton gin transformed Southern agriculture and the national economy. Southern cotton found ready markets in Europe and in the burgeoning textile mills of New England. Cotton exports from the U.S. boomed after the cotton gin's appearance – from less than in 1793 to by 1810. Cotton was a staple that could be stored for long periods and shipped long distances, unlike most agricultural products. It became the U.S.'s chief export, representing over half the value of U.S. exports from 1820 to 1860.\n\nParadoxically, the cotton gin, a labor-saving device, helped preserve slavery in the U.S. Before the 1790s, slave labor was primarily employed in growing rice, tobacco, and indigo, none of which were especially profitable any more. Neither was cotton, due to the difficulty of seed removal. But with the gin, growing cotton with slave labor became highly profitable – the chief source of wealth in the American South, and the basis of frontier settlement from Georgia to Texas. \"King Cotton\" became a dominant economic force, and slavery was sustained as a key institution of Southern society.\n\nEli Whitney has often been incorrectly credited with inventing the idea of interchangeable parts, which he championed for years as a maker of muskets; however, the idea predated Whitney, and Whitney's role in it was one of promotion and popularizing, not invention. Successful implementation of the idea eluded Whitney until near the end of his life, occurring first in others' armories.\n\nAttempts at interchangeability of parts can be traced back as far as the Punic Wars through both archaeological remains of boats now in Museo Archeologico Baglio Anselmi and contemporary written accounts. In modern times the idea developed over decades among many people. An early leader was Jean-Baptiste Vaquette de Gribeauval, an 18th-century French artillerist who created a fair amount of standardization of artillery pieces, although not true interchangeability of parts. He inspired others, including Honoré Blanc and Louis de Tousard, to work further on the idea, and on shoulder weapons as well as artillery. In the 19th century these efforts produced the \"armory system,\" or American system of manufacturing. Certain other New Englanders, including Captain John H. Hall and Simeon North, arrived at successful interchangeability before Whitney's armory did. The Whitney armory finally succeeded not long after his death in 1825.\n\nThe motives behind Whitney's acceptance of a contract to manufacture muskets in 1798 were mostly monetary. By the late 1790s, Whitney was on the verge of bankruptcy and the cotton gin litigation had left him deeply in debt. His New Haven cotton gin factory had burned to the ground, and litigation sapped his remaining resources. The French Revolution had ignited new conflicts between Great Britain, France, and the United States. The new American government, realizing the need to prepare for war, began to rearm. The War Department issued contracts for the manufacture of 10,000 muskets. Whitney, who had never made a gun in his life, obtained a contract in January 1798 to deliver 10,000 to 15,000 muskets in 1800. He had not mentioned interchangeable parts at that time. Ten months later, the Treasury Secretary, Oliver Wolcott, Jr., sent him a \"foreign pamphlet on arms manufacturing techniques,\" possibly one of Honoré Blanc's reports, after which Whitney first began to talk about interchangeability.\nIn May 1798, Congress voted for legislation that would use eight hundred thousand dollars in order to pay for small arms and cannons in case war with France erupted. It offered a 5,000 dollar incentive with an additional 5,000 dollars once that money was exhausted for the person that was able to accurately produce arms for the government. Because the cotton gin had not brought Whitney the rewards he believed it promised, he accepted the offer. Although the contract was for one year, Whitney did not deliver the arms until 1809, using multiple excuses for the delay. Recently, historians have found that during 1801–1806, Whitney took the money and headed into South Carolina in order to profit from the cotton gin.\n\nAlthough Whitney's demonstration of 1801 appeared to show the feasibility of creating interchangeable parts, Merritt Roe Smith concludes that it was \"staged\" and \"duped government authorities\" into believing that he had been successful. The charade gained him time and resources toward achieving that goal.\n\nWhen the government complained that Whitney's price per musket compared unfavorably with those produced in government armories, he was able to calculate an actual price per musket by including fixed costs such as insurance and machinery, which the government had not accounted for. He thus made early contributions to both the concepts of cost accounting, and economic efficiency in manufacturing.\n\nMachine tool historian Joseph W. Roe credited Whitney with inventing the first milling machine circa 1818. Subsequent work by other historians (Woodbury; Smith; Muir; Battison [cited by Baida]) suggests that Whitney was among a group of contemporaries all developing milling machines at about the same time (1814 to 1818), and that the others were more important to the innovation than Whitney was. (The machine that excited Roe may not have been built until 1825, after Whitney's death.) Therefore, no one person can properly be described as the inventor of the milling machine.\n\nDespite his humble origins, Whitney was keenly aware of the value of social and political connections. In building his arms business, he took full advantage of the access that his status as a Yale alumnus gave him to other well-placed graduates, such as Oliver Wolcott, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury (class of 1778), and James Hillhouse, a New Haven developer and political leader.\n\nHis 1817 marriage to Henrietta Edwards, granddaughter of the famed evangelist Jonathan Edwards, daughter of Pierpont Edwards, head of the Democratic Party in Connecticut, and first cousin of Yale's president, Timothy Dwight, the state's leading Federalist, further tied him to Connecticut's ruling elite. In a business dependent on government contracts, such connections were essential to success.\n\nWhitney died of prostate cancer on January 8, 1825, in New Haven, Connecticut, just a month after his 59th birthday. He left a widow and his four children behind. During the course of his illness, he invented and constructed several devices to mechanically ease his pain. These devices, drawings of which are in his collected papers, were effective but were never manufactured for use of others due to his heirs' reluctance to trade in \"indelicate\" items.\n\nThe Eli Whitney Students Program, Yale University's admissions program for non-traditional students, is named in honor of Whitney, who only began his studies there when he was 23, but went on to graduate Phi Beta Kappa in just three years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56683306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56683306", "title": "Francis E. Dumas", "text": "Francis E. Dumas\n\nFrancis Ernest Dumas (1837 – March 26, 1901) was a wealthy plantation owner and slaveholder of Louisiana. He was of African American and creole heritage and served as an officer in the Union Army during the American Civil War.\n\nFrancis E. Dumas, born in 1837, was the son of plantation owner Joseph Dumas and was an octoroon from his mothers side. He spoke five languages and had lived in France for some time, inheriting the sugar plantation upon his return. There was no simple way for him to free his slaves under Louisiana state law.\n\nWhen the civil war began Dumas freed over 100 of his slaves and enlisted them as a company in the Union Army. He accordingly was commissioned as Captain of Company B of the 1st Louisiana Native Guards and received a promotion to Major in the 2nd Louisiana Native Guards, one the highest ranks achieved by an African American during the war. He saw combat in the western theater and resigned his commission over disputes on July 3, 1863.\n\nHe was a candidate for Lieutenant Governor in 1868 on the James G. Taliaferro ticket backed by publisher Louis Charles Roudanez. He turned down a nomination to be Louisiana's Republican Party nominee for Lieutenant Governor after losing the nomination for governor to Henry C. Warmoth by a few votes on the second ballot after leading the first. Dumas was chosen as minister to Liberia in 1869 but turned it down.\n"}
{"id": "38979199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38979199", "title": "Francisco \"Franky\" Carrillo", "text": "Francisco \"Franky\" Carrillo\n\nFrancisco \"Franky\" Carrillo was convicted of the 1991 shooting murder of Donald Sarpy. His conviction was reversed by the Los Angeles County Superior Court on March 14, 2011, after he had served twenty years in prison. \n\nHis conviction relied on eyewitness testimony from six people. The witnesses later admitted they did not have a view of the shooter, and instead had been influenced by police officers, and each other, to identify Carrillo. Two men since confessed to the crime, and stated Carrillo was not involved. \n\nAlthough always protesting his innocence, Carrillo was found guilty at his initial trial, and subsequent appeals. After Carrillo's case was taken on by Ellen Eggers, the Northern California Innocence Project, and attorneys from Morrison & Foerster, LLP, he was able to conclusively prove his innocence.\n\nCarrillo's story has twice been featured on the podcast \"Strangers\" by Lea Thau. He is married, has 3 children, and is planning a run for the California State Assembly.\n\n"}
{"id": "1146259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1146259", "title": "Freddy Fender", "text": "Freddy Fender\n\nFreddy Fender (born Baldemar Garza Huerta; June 4, 1937 – October 14, 2006) was a Mexican American Tejano, country and rock and roll musician, known for his work as a solo artist and in the groups Los Super Seven and the Texas Tornados. He is best known for his 1975 hits \"Before the Next Teardrop Falls\" and the subsequent remake of his own \"Wasted Days and Wasted Nights\".\n\nFender was born in San Benito, Texas, to Margarita (Garza) Huerta and her Mexican immigrant husband, Serapio Huerta. He made his debut radio performance at age 10 on Harlingen's radio station KGBT, singing a then-hit, \"Paloma Querida.\"\n\nFender dropped out of high school at age 16 in 1953, and when he turned 17, he enlisted for three years in the U.S. Marine Corps. He served time in the brig on several occasions because of his drinking, and he was court martialed in August 1956 and discharged with rank of private (E-1). According to Fender, he later received a letter from the U.S. Department of the Navy saying that he had been wrongfully discharged dishonorably because of alcoholism, and he was given a general discharge. He returned to Texas and played nightclubs, bars, and honky-tonks throughout the south, mostly to Latino audiences. In 1957, then known as El Bebop Kid, he released two songs to moderate success in Mexico and South America: Spanish-language versions of Elvis Presley's \"Don't Be Cruel\" (as \"No Seas Cruel\") and Harry Belafonte's \"Jamaica Farewell.\" He also recorded his own Spanish version of Hank Williams's \"Cold Cold Heart\" under the title \"\"Tu Frío Corazón\".\"\n\nHe became known for his rockabilly music and his cool persona as Eddie con los Shades. In 1958 he legally changed his name from Baldemar Huerta to Freddy Fender. He took the name Fender from the guitar and amplifier, and Freddy because the alliteration sounded good and would \"sell better with Gringos!\" He then went to California.\n\nIn 1959 Fender recorded the blues ballad \"Wasted Days and Wasted Nights.\" The song was a hit, but he was beset by legal troubles in May 1960 after he and a band member were arrested for possession of marijuana in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. After serving nearly three years in the Louisiana State Penitentiary, he was released through the intervention of then-governor Jimmie Davis, also a songwriter and musician. Davis requested that Fender stay away from music while on probation as a condition of his release. However, in a 1990 NPR interview on \"Fresh Air with Terry Gross\" (rebroadcast October 17, 2006), Fender said that the condition for parole was to stay away from places that served alcohol.\n\nBy the end of the 1960s, Fender was back in Corpus Christi, Texas, working as a mechanic and attending local college, Del Mar College, while playing music only on the weekends.\n\nIn 1974 Fender recorded \"Before the Next Teardrop Falls.\" The single was selected for national distribution and became a number-one hit on the \"Billboard\" Country and Pop charts. It sold over a million copies and was awarded a gold disc by the RIAA in May 1975. His next three singles, \"Secret Love,\" \"You'll Lose a Good Thing,\" and a remake of \"Wasted Days and Wasted Nights,\" all reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Country charts. Between 1975 and 1983 Fender charted 21 country hits, including \"Since I Met You Baby,\" \"\"Vaya con Dios\",\" \"Livin' It Down,\" and \"The Rains Came.\" \"Wasted Days and Wasted Nights\" became Fender's second million-selling single, with the gold disc presentation taking place in September 1975.\n\nFender also was successful on the pop charts. Besides \"Before the Next Teardrop Falls\" reaching number one on the pop charts in May 1975, \"Wasted Days And Wasted Nights\" went into the pop top 10 and \"Secret Love\" into the top 20. \"Since I Met You Baby,\" \"You'll Lose A Good Thing\" (his last pop top 40), \"\"Vaya con Dios\",\" and \"Livin' It Down\" (his last to reach the pop top 100) all did well on the pop charts.\n\nWhile notable for his genre-crossing appeal, several of Fender's hits featured verses or choruses in Spanish. Bilingual songs seldom hit the pop charts, and when they did, it was because of novelty. Bilingual songs reaching the country charts were even more unusual.\n\nFender was heavily influenced by the swamp pop sound from southern Louisiana and southeast Texas, as is shown by his recording swamp pop standards on his 1978 album \"Swamp Gold\". One of his major hits, \"Wasted Days and Wasted Nights,\" has a typical swamp pop ballad arrangement. Fender associated with swamp pop musicians such as Joe Barry and Rod Bernard and issued many recordings on labels owned by Huey Meaux, a Cajun who specialized in swamp pop. As music writer John Broven observed, \"Although Freddy was a Chicano from Texas marketed as a country artist, much of his formative career was spent in South Louisiana; spiritually, Fender's music was from the Louisiana swamps.\"\n\nIn 1989 Fender teamed up with fellow Tex–Mex musicians Doug Sahm, Flaco Jiménez, and Augie Meyers to form the Texas Tornados, whose work meshed \"conjunto, Tejano\", R&B, country, and blues to wide acclaim. When the Texas Tornados went to audition for Warner Bros. Records, Fender did not think that the group was strong enough, so he brought his own band. The audition was nearly a bust, because he played country music and that was not what the executives were looking for. Fender was persuaded to play some vintage rock and blues numbers, which was what the executives were looking for, and was subsequently given a record contract. After being a solo act, Fender was not sure if signing with a group was a good thing, but according to Fender, he \"just wanted to record for a major label.\" The group released four albums and won a Grammy in 1990 for Best Mexican American Performance for the track \"Soy de San Luis\". Fender described the group in this way: \"You've heard of New Kids on the Block? Well, we're the Old Guys in the Street.\" Following the death of Sahm, the Tornados' production slowed. A live 1990 appearance on TV's \"Austin City Limits\", one of three the group made, was released in 2005 as part of the \"Live From Austin, Texas\", series.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Fender joined another supergroup, Los Super Seven, with Los Lobos' David Hidalgo and César Rosas, Flaco Jiménez, Ruben Ramos, Joe Ely, and country singer Rick Trevino. The group won a 1998 Grammy in the Mexican American Performance category for their self-titled disc.\n\nIn 2001 Fender made his final studio recording, a collection of classic Mexican \"boleros\" titled \"La Música de Baldemar Huerta\" that brought him a third Grammy award, this time in the category of Latin Pop Album. Rose Reyes, who worked with Fender in 2004 for a Texas Folklife and Austin tribute titled \"Fifty Years of Freddy Fender,\" said of the album, \"When he did Mexican standards at that point in his career, I expected it to be good because he's a perfectionist. But that record is so beautifully recorded; his voice is perfection. I was so proud it was coming back to his roots.\"\n\nOn March 13, 2001, Fender was erroneously reported to be dead by \"Billboard\". He laughed off the magazine's error. He underwent a kidney transplant in 2002 with a kidney donated by his daughter and underwent a liver transplant in 2004. Nonetheless, his condition continued to worsen. He was suffering from an \"incurable cancer\" in which he had tumors on his lungs. On December 31, 2005, Fender performed his last concert and resumed chemotherapy.\n\nHe died on October 14, 2006, at the age of 69 of lung cancer at his home in Corpus Christi, Texas, with his family at his bedside. He was buried in his hometown of San Benito.\n\nHe had said in a 2004 interview with the Associated Press that he wished to become the first Mexican American inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame.\n\nA Freddy Fender Museum and The Conjunto Music Museum opened November 17, 2007, in San Benito. They share a building with the San Benito Historical Museum. His family maintains the Freddy Fender Scholarship Fund and donates to philanthropic causes that Fender supported.\n\nIn 1988 Fender played the mayor of a small New Mexico town in the Robert Redford–directed film \"The Milagro Beanfield War\". Fender also appeared as Tony in the prison movie \"Short Eyes\", a 1977 film adaptation, directed by Robert M. Young, of the Miguel Pinero play.\nFender played the role of Pancho Villa in 1979s \"She Came to the Valley\" (later released as \"Texas in Flames\"). The movie was directed by Albert Band and based on the book by Cleo Dawson. \nFender also appeared as himself in an episode of the television series \"The Dukes of Hazzard\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12518366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12518366", "title": "Guy-Toussaint-Julien Carron", "text": "Guy-Toussaint-Julien Carron\n\nAbbé Guy-Toussaint-Julien Carron (1760–1821) was a French Roman Catholic priest who founded a number of social and educational institutions, especially while in exile in England, and was a prolific author of pious tracts.\n\nBorn in Rennes, he soon employed himself in founding a variety of social institutions including a textile factory to employ the deprived inhabitants of his native town in 1789 and an institution for young women trying to escape a life of prostitution. However, in 1790, following the French Revolution, he became a \"non-juror\", refusing to swear to the Civil Constitution of the Clergy, and was imprisoned.\n\nIn 1792, he was deported to Jersey where he founded schools, libraries and pharmacies for fellow French Catholics who had fled the Revolution. He resettled in Somers Town, London and established many educational and social institutions to support his community, winning the personal thanks of Louis XVIII.\n\nOn the Bourbon Restoration in 1814, Carron returned to France and became head of the \"Institut de Marie-Thérèse\", a charity founded for children whose families had lost their fortunes during the Revolution.\n\nHe published many pious and religious works which were very popular in their time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50212513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50212513", "title": "Hasan Abdullah Ismaik", "text": "Hasan Abdullah Ismaik\n\nHasan Abdullah Ismaik () is a Jordanian businessman and Chairman of Hasan Abdullah Mohammed Group (HAMG Group), a UAE-based group of investment companies founded by Ismaik in 2006. He owns Marya Development & Real Estate Investment LLC, a private investment company in the United Arab Emirates with a diversified investment portfolio that includes projects worth US$4 billion. He is the Chairman and majority shareholder of the German sports club TSV 1860 Munich; Chairman of Al-Ashmal Real-Estate Investment Co. in Jordan; and Chairman of publicly-listed Masaken for Land and Industrial Development Projects (Masaken Capital). In 2014, Forbes Magazine listed Ismaik as the first Jordanian billionaire and the third-youngest billionaire in the Middle East.\n\nIsmaik had his name in the media when the shares in Depa had risen steadily over one year, increasing from about 40 fils in August 2013 to a high of 71 fils on June 2013 that was the day before he resigned from his position as the chairman of Depa, leaving the Nasdaq Dubai-quoted firm, Arabtec without a chairman. However, the company drastically scaled back its plans after Mr Ismaik abruptly resigned, sending shares into a freefall and leaving question marks hanging over non-core business of Ismaik.\n\nFurthermore, in March 2016 thereby were rumours that Hasan Ismaik, will be appointed to the board of Arabtec again, however \"the rumours over the appointment of Mr Hasan Ismaik as Chairman or member of the board of directors of Arabtec are false and are not based on any true facts or events,\" Arabtec said in a bourse filing.\n\nIsmaik launched his career as a real estate entrepreneur in Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, with a specific interest in the oil and gas sectors. Following the introduction of the freehold property law that sparked the real estate boom in Dubai, he transferred his business focus to the UAE market where he continued to gain commercial achievements.\n\nHe pushed plans to diversify his investment portfolio and explored new investment and asset acquisition opportunities in industries as diverse as energy, real estate, construction, transportation, retail and architectural design services. In 2006, Ismaik founded HAMG Group, an Abu Dhabi-based group of investment companies. In addition to HAMG, Ismaik has commercial interest in a wide range of industries including real estate, retail, and architectural design services, among others, across the United Arab Emirates, GCC and the Middle East.\n\nHAMG Group includes the following subsidiary companies:\n\n\n\n\n\nHe signed an MOU with the Egyptian armed forces to build one million houses in Egypt. The project, one of the biggest in the region, aimed to provide housing for lower income individuals. In June 2013, the Board of Directors of Depa Limited, one of the world’s leading interior contracting companies, appointed Ismaik as its new chairman. His appointment followed a strong performance by the company across its diverse and robust project catalogue in the first quarter of the year, when the company’s revenue increased by 18 percent to AED446 million.\n\nThe company’s key investments in Jordan include the Al-Haytham commercial complex, Masaken Academy, in addition to land ownership in various regions throughout the kingdom.\n\nIn June 2011, Ismaik bought 60 percent, an investment of €18 million ($25.8 million) of TSV 1860 Munich, a German sports club based in Munich that plays in the 4. Liga. Becoming the first Arab to acquire shares of a German football club, Ismaik claimed that his aim was to safeguard the survival of the club that was one of the founding members of the German national Bundesliga. Due to DFL regulations, Ismaik only has 49 percent of the voting rights; the additional shares are without voting rights.\n\nIsmaik commented on the acquisition:\n\nThe acquisition was followed by a long and controversial discussion about Ismaik's goals and intentions regarding this investment, which is still ongoing (Status as of December 2016).\n\nSince the acquisition of the shares, neither the financial situation nor the sporting success of TSV 1860 Munich have improved significantly.\n\nAt the end of the 2016-17 season, TSV 1860 Munich were relegated to the third tier of German football following a play-off defeat against Jahn Regensburg. Unable to resolve his differences with club officials regarding his control of the club, Ismaik refused to provide the approximately ten million euros necessary for a 3.Liga playing license and the club was subsequently automatically relegated even further to the regional fourth tier. Ismaik remains in control.\n\nHe has been actively involved in numerous social, charitable and humanitarian activities in the United Arab Emirates and Jordan. \nMosques: Ismaik has constructed several mosques in the United Arab Emirates and Jordan, including the Al Aziz Mosque in Reem Island and Al Kareem Mosque opposite Emirates Palace Hotel in Abu Dhabi; both are unique landmarks in the United Arab Emirates capital. \n\n"}
{"id": "4286941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4286941", "title": "Heinrich Bernhard Oppenheim", "text": "Heinrich Bernhard Oppenheim\n\nHeinrich Bernhard Oppenheim (July 20, 1819 in Frankfurt – March 29, 1880 in Berlin) was a German publicist and philosopher concerned with the ideas of liberalism, free trade and international law.\n\nOppenheim was son of a Jewish family of bankers in Frankfurt and studied law in Göttingen, Heidelberg and Berlin. In Berlin he could not reach a postdoctoral lecturer qualification because of his Jewish origin, so he became a private lecturer (\"Privatdozent\") for political science and international law in Heidelberg.\nBut his inclinations to journalism soon won the upper hand, and, his living assured by his family, he gave up teaching.\n\nHe was very much taken by the questions surrounding the movements of 1848. His feeble attempts at practical politics nevertheless foundered and left him more and more to make himself known through his pen and his theories. He spoke at the agitated mass meeting at Unter den Zelten where the legislature's petition to the king regarding the wishes of the people was discussed. He became one of the chief editors, with Arnold Ruge and Eduard Meyen, of “Die Reform” (The Reform) which soon came under the oversight of several democratic groups. Among his other co-workers on this paper were Mikhail Bakunin, Karl Heinzen and Georg Herwegh. Oppenheim sought a seat in the National Assembly. He thought it sufficient to refer to his writings in “Die Reform” where he developed his premise “that only with freedom did the people become mature enough for freedom,” but the people of Berlin had no patience with a candidate who campaigned only with his pen. This experience convinced him even more he that he was suited to a writing career, as he did not seem suited to speaking.\n\nHe went to Baden and, looking for secrets, broke into the private files of the departed archduke. Lorenzo Brentano, the leader of the provisional government, put him in charge of the government newspaper, the “Karlsruher Zeitung”. When a schism broke out between Brentano's moderates and Gustav Struve's terrorists, Oppenheim worked for the latter, and was dismissed from the newspaper when they failed. He then traveled to Switzerland, France, the Netherlands and England. He returned in 1850 and continued to publish works on democratic ideas. He denounced the democrats for the victories of the Reaction, but thought the latter were ultimately to blame because they turned to raw despotic power rather than continuing with their phony constitutionalism.\n\nIn 1861 Oppenheim joined the German Progress Party and edited the \"Yearbook for Politics and Literature\" which was banned soon afterwards. He also became a member of the Congress of German Economists, as he was known as an excellent economist and supporter of free trade. He also paid attention to social matters.\n\nThe occurrences of 1866 worked a great transformation in Oppenheim. He greeted the new order with joy while other liberals were more skeptical. Oppenheim joined the National Liberals and supported Bismarck's strategy for national unification. He wrote two flyers for the elections, one of which only saw limited distribution since the leaders saw it as too radical. After 1870, for the first time he directly discussed practical questions, writing on poor laws and economics. He was also critical of “fanciful thinkers about the future among the teachers in the universities.”\n\nIn 1874, he was elected Member of the Reichstag representing Reuß ä. L. and took his seat as an expert on the 1869 changes to commercial regulations. In 1877 he lost his seat to a social democrat. In reaction to Bismarck’s protectionist policy he split with his party in 1880.\n\nOppenheim’s philosophical work is concentrated on parliamentarism the idea of common welfare. He coined the phrase “lectern socialism” (\"German\" \"Kathedersozialismus\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38208429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38208429", "title": "Henri Cordier (mountaineer)", "text": "Henri Cordier (mountaineer)\n\nHenri Cordier or Henry Cordier (1856 – 7 June 1877) was a French mountaineer. In his short two-year career, he became the first Frenchman to reach the level of the English members of the Alpine Club, in the silver age of alpinism in the second half of the 19th century, which was dominated by the development of mountaineering in the Alps. With some of the Alpine Club's mountain guides and mountaineers, he led significant first ascents in the Mont Blanc massif and in the Dauphiné Alps (the Massif des Écrins).\n\nA grandson of geologist Louis Cordier and a great-nephew of politician and scientist Louis Ramond de Carbonnières, Henri Cordier pursued studies at the \"École Libre des Sciences Politiques\", founded in 1872, where he received high honors. He was first attracted by the Pyrenees, to which he traveled in 1874, before visiting the Swiss Alps the following year. His brief Alpine career combined talent and audacity. In the 1876 season he succeeded in making eleven first ascents. He claimed to have climbed the western peak of the Meije that year, but was subsequently forced to retract the claim.\n\n\nDescending from Le Plaret, the group left the glacier, successfully passed the crevasse zone, unroped and ate a meal. Afterwards, Cordier went ahead. In front of his horrified companions, he performed a standing glissade down a steep snow slope above the glacial torrent of La Clause below the surface. The snow surface broke suddenly and Cordier was carried away by the white water under the ice and drowned. Jakob Anderegg was lowered into the twelve-foot hole on a rope, but could find no trace of Cordier and nearly suffocated before being pulled up. According to Henri Béraldi, Cordier had very poor eyesight, but refused glasses due to vanity. As he amused himself by slipping on the snowy slope, he was alerted by his guides and replied, \"Ne vous inquiétez pas, je vais m'arrêter sur ce rocher noir\" (\"Do not worry, I'll stop on the black rock\"). Unfortunately for Cordier, the rock in reality was a hole.\n\nCordier's body was recovered the next morning forty feet below the location of his disappearance. The corpse was photographed by Henry Duhamel at La Bérarde. Henri Cordier was only 21 years old.\n\nIn memory of Henri Cordier, the Pic de Neige Cordier, located above the Glacier Blanc in the Massif des Ecrins, was named after him. It was climbed for the first time on 3 August 1877 by Paul Guillemin, Émile Pic, and Pierre Estienne. Cordier also gave his name to posterity in two first-routes, which he had executed in 1876 with Thomas Middlemore, John Oakley Maund and guides Jakob Anderegg, Andreas Maurer and Johann Jaun: the Cordier Couloir on the North Face of the Aiguille Verte and the Cordier route on the north face of Les Courtes (both in the Mont Blanc massif).\n\n"}
{"id": "2679810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2679810", "title": "Herb Grosch", "text": "Herb Grosch\n\nHerbert Reuben John Grosch (September 13, 1918 – January 18, 2010) was an early computer scientist, perhaps best known for Grosch's law, which he formulated in 1950. Grosch's Law is an aphorism that states \"economy is as the square root of the speed.\" \n\nBorn on September 13, 1918, in Canada, he moved to the United States where he received his B.S. and PhD in astronomy from the University of Michigan in 1942. In 1945, he was hired by IBM to do backup calculations for the Manhattan Project working at Watson Scientific Computing Laboratory at Columbia University. According to an IBM history, he had been previously employed as an optical engineer in defense industry and was eager to return to research. In 1951, he went on to work on Project Whirlwind at MIT, and on other early computer projects at General Electric. Back at IBM, he served as their first space program manager in 1958-1959.\n\nGrosch served as editor of the journal \"Computerworld\" from 1973 to 1976, and he was the president of the American Rocket Society (which became the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics) and the Association for Computing Machinery from 1976 to 1978. \n\nGrosch received the Association for Computing Machinery Fellows Award in 1995, and the citation that accompanied it read, \"A computer pioneer who managed important space and technology projects, Grosch is respected for discovering and describing the relationship between speed and cost of computers.\"\n\nHe holds the distinction of being the second scientist hired by IBM (after Wallace J. Eckert) and the first employee at that company with facial hair, at a time when beards were prohibited by IBM.\n\nOn Grosch's religious views, he was an atheist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57510744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57510744", "title": "Hienadź Sahanovič", "text": "Hienadź Sahanovič\n\nHienadź Sahanovič (Генадзь Сагановіч) is a Belarusian historian. He specializes in the early modern period of Central European and Belarusian history.\n\nIn 1984 Sahanovič graduated from the Maxim Tank Belarusian State Pedagogical University in Miensk. Beginning in 1986 he became an active member of the democratic oppostion in Soviet Belarus. In 1989 Sahanovič obtained a PhD degree in history from the Institute of History, National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, where he worked as a researcher between 1984 and 2005. His employment was terminated, in the course of the politically-motivated purge of historians and social scientists, whose research did not follow the government's official line. Sahanovič moved to the European Humanities University (EHU), then still based in the Belarusian capital of Miensk. The EHU ceased operating in Belarus in 2004.\n\nIn 1994 Sahanovič founded the journal \"Belaruski Histaryčny Ahliad/Belarusian Historical Review\", and since then has served as its Editor-in-Chief.. At the same time, he was also a member of the editorial board of another new learned journal (established in 1993), devoted to Belarusian studies, namely, \"Беларусіка Belarusika/Albaruthenica\", as founded and edited by the leading Belarusian philologist and historian Adam Maldzis (Адам Мальдзіс).\n\nSahanovič works and does research at the EHU, Vilnius, Lithuania, and at the University of Warsaw in the Center for Belarusian Studies, Center for East European Studies. In 2018 Sahanovič obtained a Habilitation degree in history from the University of Warsaw.\n\nFor his research Sahanovič received a Belarusian PEN Club’s Francišak Bahuševič award in 1995, and six years later, in 2001, an award conferred by the Polish journal \"Przegląd Wschodni\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30829104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30829104", "title": "Hikmat al-Shihabi", "text": "Hikmat al-Shihabi\n\nHikmat Shihabi (‎ 8 January 1931 – 5 March 2013) was a Syrian career military officer, who served as the chief of staff of the Syrian Army between 1974 and 1998.\n\nShihabi was born into a Sunni family in 1931 in Al-Bab, Aleppo province. He attended Homs military academy and then had advanced military training in the United States.\n\nShihabi began his career in aviation, training in the Soviet Union and the United States. From 1968 to 1971 he served as deputy head of the military security department. In 1970, he earned a Soviet degree in intelligence services. In April 1971, he was named head of intelligence services of the (military intelligence), assisted by Colonel Ali Duba. He was promoted to a general the following year, and supervised the department of military security. After the 1973 Yom Kippur War, he led the Syrian delegation to the United States in April 1974, negotiating the conditions of the Syrian–Israeli disengagement. On 12 August 1974, he was appointed chief of staff of the Syrian Army, replacing Yusuf Shakkur, who was promoted to deputy defense minister. In December 1983, while President Hafez Assad was ill, Shihabi was part, along with General Mustafa Tlass and Ali Duba, of the committee in charge of running the country. From 1994 to 1995 he was part of a delegation that traveled to the United States to discuss peace negotiations with Israel. His term as chief of staff lasted until 1998.\n\nShihabii was also one of Ba'ath Party's four-member “old guard” members of the Regional Command.\n\nOn 8 July 1998, after 24 years as army chief of staff, Shihabi resigned his post prior to Hafez Assad's death and was succeeded by Ali Aslan. Shihabi cited health reasons and a heart condition when asked about his resignation by president Assad who wanted to extend his service. In 2000, rumors surfaced in Syrian newspapers, which proved false, claiming that Shihabi would soon be indicted on corruption charges.\n\nShihabi was one of the senior Syrian officials who were close to late Rafik Hariri, former prime minister of Lebanon, and Lebanon's Druze leader Walid Jumblatt.\n\nShihabi died on 5 March 2013.\n"}
{"id": "47437474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47437474", "title": "Ian Carmichael on stage, screen and radio", "text": "Ian Carmichael on stage, screen and radio\n\nThe English actor and comedian Ian Carmichael OBE (1920–2010) performed in many mediums of light entertainment, including theatre, radio, television and film. His career spanned from 1939 until his death in 2010. According to Brian McFarlane, writing for the British Film Institute, Carmichael \"epitomises the good-natured, undemanding pleasures of '50s British cinema\".\n\nCarmichael made his professional stage debut in 1939 while he was studying at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art; his role was as a robot in the science fiction play \"R.U.R.\", which lasted for only a week. His studies were interrupted by the Second World War, and he was commissioned into the Royal Armoured Corps; he also joined an entertainment unit, 30 Corps Theatrical Pool, for which he produced twenty shows. At the end of the war he returned to professional acting, and in 1947 he took a role in \"She Wanted a Cream Front Door\", which ran in the West End for nine months. He continued to perform in the theatre throughout the rest of his career, largely in the UK, but also in productions in Canada, South Africa and the United States. In 1947 Carmichael made his debut on television in the revue \"New Faces\". He continued to work in television throughout his life and, according to McFarlane, achieved considerable success with P.G. Wodehouse's \"The World of Wooster\" in 1966–67, in which he played Bertie Wooster, and as Lord Peter Wimsey between 1972 and 1975.\n\nCarmichael made his radio debut in 1947 in the BBC Home Service's \"Saturday Night Theatre\", and continued to appear throughout his career. Included in his output were dramatisations of the Wimsey novels and Wodehouse's works, this time as Galahad Threepwood in the Blandings Castle stories. In 1948 Carmichael made his cinematic debut in an uncredited role in \"Bond Street\", and went on to establish a film career in the 1950s when he appeared in films by the Boulting brothers, including \"Private's Progress\" (1956), \"Lucky Jim\" (1957), \"Brothers in Law\" (1957), \"Happy Is the Bride\" (1958) and \"I'm All Right Jack\" (1959). On Carmichael's death in 2010 Dennis Barker, writing for \"The Guardian\", observed that \"what made Carmichael notable was that he could play fool parts in a way that did not cut the characters completely off from human sympathy: a certain dignity was always maintained.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27292426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27292426", "title": "James Shaibu Barka", "text": "James Shaibu Barka\n\nJames Shaibu Barka was elected a member of the Adamawa State, Nigeria House of Assembly, and was appointed Speaker. When Adamawa State Governor Murtala Nyako's election was nullified in February 2008, Barka became Acting Governor, handing back to Nyako after he had been reelected on 29 April 2008.\n\nBarka was elected to the Adamawa Assembly for the Hong constituency.\nIn July 2003, as Majority Leader of the Assembly, he successfully moved a motion to dissolve the State Civil Service Commission, State Independent Electoral Commission and the Judicial Service Commission, replacing them by management committees with members nominated by the governor.\n\nAfter the Election Petition Appeal Tribunal upheld the nullification of governor Nyako's election, Barka was sworn in as Acting Governor on 26 February 2008.\nBarka immediately sacked all of Nyako's appointees including commissioners, committee chairmen, area administrators, special advisers and assistants.\nBarka handed back power to Nyaka on 29 April 2008 after the former governor had won the re-run election.\n\nIn March 2010, the House of Assembly passed a law to award Barka a lifetime pension for his service as governor. The law was disputed as being unconstitutional.\nIn April 2010, he was being considered a possible candidate for governor in the April 2011 elections.\n"}
{"id": "8314047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8314047", "title": "Johan Quanjer", "text": "Johan Quanjer\n\nJohan Henri Quanjer (23 May 1934 – 13 February 2001) was a Dutch author, publisher, and New Age philosopher and mystic who spent most of his adult life in London. In 1973 he coined the term \"Pneumatocracy\" for the principle of the rule of the spirit in government and sought to combines politics with personal spirituality.\n\nHe was born in Surabaya on the island of Java, where he reported he experienced a mystical vision as a child of two. His family moved to Epe, Netherlands in 1937. He then suffered near starvation during the German occupation of World War II. As a young man he travelled in Canada and America, where he refined his philosophy, but settled in London in 1957 where he became president of the UFO society and editor of the magazine \"New Humanity\". In 1994 he stood for the European Parliament in the then London South West Constituency on the platform of the \"Spirit of Europe\". He was the first non-British national ever to be nominated to stand in a UK election. He was a strong believer and promoter of the European Union. His autobiography \"The Luminous Journey: The Reflection of Pneumatocracy, the Rule of the Soul, in My Extraordinary Life\" was published in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "34539684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34539684", "title": "John Williams (mixed martial artist)", "text": "John Williams (mixed martial artist)\n\nDr. John \"Gray Wolf\" Williams became the oldest active professional mixed martial artist at age 70, when he made his professional fight debut against Larry Brewbaker on July 24, 2010.\n\nJohn Williams was born in the small town of Moncton, New Brunswick, Canada on March 7, 1940. Williams belonged to the Native American tribe Wabenaki, and was a direct ancestor of the great Wabenaki war chief Madockaweando. Both of John's parents spoke French and were part of the Wabenaki tribe. Dr. John Williams has always been an avid mixed martial artist (MMA) fighter, and started fighting at the juvenile age of 7. Williams picked up fast on mixed martial arts (MMA), and by age 16 he had already received training in Olympic-style weightlifting, Kodokan Judo, and Tani-Ha Jiu-Jitsu. By the time John reached the age of 23, he had started giving demonstrations that authenticated pure forms of strength and ability. Some of the tasks he performed included, bending spikes, tearing phonebooks and license plates in half, and holding two jeeps from going in the opposite directions.\n\nWilliams became so influential through the sport of mixed martial arts (MMA), that he eventually opened up a Jiu-Jitsu practice in the United States in 1963. Although having his own practice which kept him busy in the sport, Williams went on to teach a variety of seminars all over the world. Williams brought the sport of MMA to Canada, and also was one of the first record holders of several different events. Williams was part of a very successful Canadian wrestling team which happened to be one of the top three in Canada at the time. He won Mr. Moncton title in the late 1950s and entered the Guinness Book of World Records in the 1980s. In 1987, Williams set a world record for breaking multiple blocks of ice with a single punch. Each block was 11 inches thick, 22 inches wide, 42 inches long, and were stacked one on top of the other 10 consecutive blocks in a pile. This record still stands today. Some other records in the name of John Williams consists of, 13 consecutive hours of judo throws, over 100 weightlifting records, which include a world record for lifting 505 pounds in the one-handed deadlift at 160 pound bodyweight. Sadly, this record was disproved as the world record for this lift was already achieved in 1920. He fought in kickboxing, amateur and professional boxing, and he competed in both karate and judo.\n\nWilliams debut his amateur MMA fighting career in November 2000, and fought nine times, with a record of four wins and five losses.\n\nAt seventy-years old, Williams decided to set a new record. He wanted to become the oldest professional debuting mixed martial arts fighter in history. However, athletic commissions were opposed to this idea. Williams had to pass a volume of both physical and medical tests to prove it was safe for him to compete in professional mixed martial arts. Williams passed all the tests.\n\nPrior to competing against former professional wrestler Larry Brewbaker, Williams wanted to prove a serious point on his insight concerning professional fighting and the association it has with age. Williams emphasized the fact that, \"as a person becomes a senior, society kind of pushes them out of the loop. The attitude around them is that they're dumb, they can't do anything, physically they're just vegetables, and there sort of shunned by society.\" Williams wanted to prove that he was not just another senior citizen in society, but that he was capable of achieving victory in a professional fight; which many people thought was impossible at his age.\n\nIn an interview prior to his match, Williams said, \"I went and got information on discrimination towards a person because of age, and I realized that if I say this is my job and I’m physically capable of doing the job, there was no way in the world they could stop me. This had nothing to do with risk factors. When you know what you’re doing, MMA is safe. I could have done an amateur thing or an exhibition, but no, I wanted to do a real fight.\"\n\nWilliams, sporting a long pony-tail, met Larry Brewbaker, 49, a used car salesman with a shaved head and multiple tattoos. Their fight took place in Moncton, New Brunswick, Canada,on July 24, 2010, at the \"Elite 1 – Wild Card\".\n\nThe 70-year-old Williams set three records that night. He became the oldest debuting MMA fighter, the oldest active MMA fighter, and the oldest winning MMA fighter. Williams won his match by ankle lock in the 2nd round.\n\nIn an interview after his record making victory, Williams said, \"The point of life is living it. And I tell you, I got in that cage and I felt alive. I felt human again. You get that thing over your head, people think you’re 70 and you don’t know [expletive]. They don’t bother to get to know you. I like Eminem. I like rap music. …Mentally, I feel the same as I did when I was 30. I like the same kind of cars, make the same kind of ridiculous claims, and the enjoy same kinds of women. Nothing’s changed for me, but there’s this stereotype. You don’t change, but they try and make you fit a mold and be something you don’t want to be, which is an old person. Not me. I’ve been a fighter all my life.\"\n"}
{"id": "37595344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37595344", "title": "Joseph Godfrey", "text": "Joseph Godfrey\n\nJoseph Godfrey (1835 – July, 1909) was an African American who escaped from slavery into a Dakota community in Minnesota, United States, and fought on their side during the Dakota War of 1862. He was the only African-American combatant of the war.\n\nJoseph Godfrey was born a slave in 1835 in Mendota, Minnesota. He was the son of a French Canadian voyageur named Joseph Godefroi and Polly, a female slave brought from St. Louis, Missouri, to Fort Snelling by an American army officer. Godfrey was raised in the household of Alexis Bailley, where his mother worked. Not much is known about his childhood, except that he received little to no education. At some point Godfrey was taken to St. Paul, Minnesota, by a man named Bronson. During this time Godfrey served as an aid for Henry Hastings Sibley, prominent trader and later first governor of Minnesota, who also played a key role in the U.S.-Dakota War.\n\nSuffering ill treatment from his owners, Godfrey ran away to seek refuge among the Dakota as a fugitive slave. In 1857 he moved to the Lower Sioux Agency, where he married the daughter of Wahpaduta (Red Leaf). In August 1862, while helping local Dakota load hay onto a wagon, Godfrey was approached by another Dakota man announcing that all the white people had been killed at the agency. On the spot, Godfrey was asked what side he would take. Afraid for his life and family, Godfrey felt compelled to join the war.\n\nLater that fall Godfrey was accused by Col. Sibley of joining the Dakota between August 19th and September 29th and actively participating in attacks. Dakota warriors awarded him the name \"Atokte,\" meaning \"slayer of many\" in the Dakota language. Godfrey denied he had killed anyone. However, there were conflicting reports about his role in the conflict and how active he really was.\n\nGodfrey was captured after the Battle of Wood Lake on September 23, 1862, and held to face trial. He was the first person tried by the military commission on September 28, 1862. In an effort to escape execution, Godfrey testified against eleven of the thirty-eight Dakota warriors who were eventually hanged on December 26, 1862. Although he escaped conviction for murder, he was convicted of participating in the fighting and sentenced to death by hanging. In exchange for his testimony, the commission recommended that the President commute his sentence to ten years' imprisonment. In its recommendation to President Abraham Lincoln, the court commission stated that \"a large number of men of the very worst character would have gone unpunished\" without Godfrey's testimony. Lincoln agreed to the commutation, and later issued a full pardon.\n\nGodfrey was sent to Camp McClellan in Davenport, Iowa, to serve his prison sentence. After serving three years he was pardoned and freed in 1866. Upon his release, he settled on the Santee Sioux Reservation in Nebraska. Godfrey spent the rest of his life on the Santee Reservation, and died there from natural causes in July 1909. His body was buried in the Episcopalian Cemetery on the reservation.\n\nBachman, Walt. \"Northern Slave, Black Dakota: The Life and Times of Joseph Godfrey\". Bloomington, Minn: Pond Dakota Press, 2013.\n"}
{"id": "13187986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13187986", "title": "Joseph Massel", "text": "Joseph Massel\n\nJoseph Massel (also Yoysef Yechezkel Mazl), born in Wjasin near Vilna, Russia, 1850; Manchester, 1912) was a Zionist activist, writer, Hebrew poet and translator.\n\nMassel emigrated from Russia to Manchester, England in 1895 where he worked as a printer.\n\nMassel was a pioneer in the promotion of Hebrew as the national language, publishing works by Israel Cohen and Harry Sacher among others. He wrote Hebrew poems and translated English classics into Hebrew, including Milton’s Samon Agonistes, Longfellow’s Judas Maccabaeus and Fitzgerald’s Omar Khayyam. He also spent two years preparing a unique collection of 94 portraits called \"A Gallery of Hebrew Poets; 1725–1903\".\n\nBy the time Chaim Weizmann arrived in Manchester in 1904, Massel was living in a small street of the lower end of Cheetham Hill Road (where his Hebrew printing works was based) across from Red Bank and not far from the Central Synagogue. He was much part of Manchester’s Zionist community and was a vice-president of the Manchester Zionist Association. At that time he was the only person Weizmann knew in Manchester.\n\nMassel attended the First Zionist Congress (Basle, 1897) and had probably met Weizmann at the Second Zionist Congress (Basle, 1898). Showing Weizmann hospitality he never forgot, Massel collected him from the train station, put him up for the night and arranged lodgings for him the next day. Massel also introduced Weizmann to Charles Dreyfus. Weizmann was later to refer to Massel as a \"veritable angel\" and described his Friday evening visits to the Massel household as \"the highlights of my life\".\n"}
{"id": "43581728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43581728", "title": "Julius Drum", "text": "Julius Drum\n\nJulius Drum (March 18, 1958– September 17, 2007), also known as Julius L. Corder, was a Native American actor.\n\nBorn in Winnebago, Nebraska, Drum was adopted at the age of five by John and Dorothy Corder of McCook, Nebraska. Upon graduating from school, he entered medical school in California and supported himself as a television commercial actor. He was a member of the Screen Actors Guild.\n\nDrum played Richard Yellow Hawk in the 1992 movie, \"Thunderheart\". He also acted in the 2012 movie, \"Dark Blood\", although the movie was not released during Drum's lifetime.\n\nHe had been involved with the Lincoln Indian Center and was active in the American Indian Movement. He received the Outstanding New Performer award from First Americans in the Arts for his work in \"Thunderheart\".\n\nComplications from diabetes forced Drum to seek help at the Carl T. Curtis Health Center in Macy, Nebraska. He died at the center on September 17, 2007.\n"}
{"id": "15740906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15740906", "title": "Katoucha Niane", "text": "Katoucha Niane\n\nKatoucha Niane (23 October 1960 – 2 February 2008) was a Senegalese model. Nicknamed \"The Peul Princess\" (in reference to her ethnic Fula background), she worked, and later wrote, under the single name \"Katoucha\". She was the daughter of author, playwright and historian Djibril Tamsir Niane.\n\nWhen she was a child, Katoucha and her family was forced into exile after her father came into conflict with Guinean President, Sekou Toure. Living with an uncle in Mali, she rejoined her family in Dakar at the age of 12. There she lived with the family of her paternal uncle, whose wife was private secretary to the President of Senegal, Léopold Sédar Senghor. After marrying her husband at the age of 17 and giving birth to her first child, they emigrated to France.\n\nIt was there in the 1980s that she began modeling; first for Thierry Mugler, then for Paco Rabanne and Christian Lacroix, and became known as Yves Saint Laurent's \"muse\". She remained one of the best-known models in France, and an icon in Guinea. In 2005, she worked as host of the French-language television program \"France's Next Top Model\".\nShe was the star of the film \"Ramata\" (2007), directed by Léandre-Alain Baker, in which she played the title role.\nIt tells of a Senegalese woman who, aged 50, discovers the pleasures of the flesh in the arms of a man 25 years younger.\n\"Ramata\" was released in France in 2011.\n\nNiane stopped modeling in 1994 to focus on activism. She had been an outspoken activist against female circumcision, a rite performed in some African nations. Following her success as a model, she started the organization \"KPLCE - Katoucha pour la lutte contre l’excision\" (English: \"Katoucha for the battle against female circumcision\"). Niane herself was circumcised at the age of nine. In 2007, she published a book about her personal circumcision experience, \"Dans ma chair\" (Eng: \"In My Flesh\"), in France.\n\nKatoucha lived in a houseboat on the Seine, near the Alexander III bridge in Paris. On 1 February 2008, she returned to her houseboat from a party. This was the last time she was reportedly seen alive. On 4 February 2008, police opened a missing persons case for her. Her purse was found untouched outside the door to her boat. Police believed that no foul play was involved, and that she was likely intoxicated and fell into the Seine.\n\nHer body was found in the Seine River on 28 February 2008. The 47-year-old model is believed to have died from an accidental drowning. Fox News Channel reported the family suspected Niane may have been the victim of foul play.\n\n"}
{"id": "10438582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10438582", "title": "Kendayan people", "text": "Kendayan people\n\nThe Kendayan (also known as Dayak Kenyan or Kanayatn) are an Indonesian ethnic group native to Kalimantan, Indonesia in Borneo. The population of the group is around 366,000. \n\nKanayatn languages encompass the Brahe, Badame, Jare, and Bang app languages. Socio-linguistically, it is very difficult to specify the language repertoire because it is used with various dialects and patois pronunciation. However, these languages are all considered a part of the Malayic language family which also includes Indonesia's official language, Malay.\n\nThe increased adoption of Indonesian words by the Kanayatn has drastically changed Dayak Kanayatn dialects for modern speakers. With many speakers of traditional dialects in the older generations, this change has resulted in communication problems between generations.\n\nThe Tangkitn is a unique weapon to the Kanayatn people and was used as their primary head-hunting weapon in the past. In the Salako language, the Tangkitn is also referred to as the Parang Pandat. The Kanayatn tribe employed shields to deflect attacks from swords. According to the Kanayatn people in Mempawah (Compaq-mem pa wah Hulu-mental-too-Sada Niang), there are two types of shields in Kanayatn culture: Gun amp and Jabakng. However, according to Kanayatn members in Landak (including sea Ambawang and Kuala Mandor), there is just one type of shield, namely Gun amp.\n\nThe original religion of the Kanayatn people is not the Kaharingan as it is with the Dayak people. Kanayatn Dayak's indigenous religion is inseparable from their customs (Adat). It can even be said their customs assert their religious identity. In daily practice, Kanayatn Dayak people never mention religion as their normative, but Adat (custom). This religious system is not a Hindu Kaharingan system.\n\nKanayatn people refer to God as Juba. Juba is said to have passed down indigenous customs to the ancestors of Dayak Kanayatn located in Bukit Ba wang (now entering the district Bengkayang). In expressing belief in Jubata, they have a place of worship called \"panyugu\" or \"padagi\" (kadiaman). It is also important for the \"panyangahatn\" priest to become a liaison between man and God (Jubata).\n\nToday, many Dayak Kanayatn have embraced other religions, including Christianity and Islam. Kenanyatn people who have embraced another religion may no longer consider themselves as Dayak Kanayatn once they have abandoned their customary practices. Similarly, Kanayatn people who have embraced Islam will no longer regard themselves as Dayak, but as Malay people or Orang laut.\n\nThe Kanayatn were grouped into the category clump Land Dayak-Kalimantan by H. J. Mallinckrodt; but according to C. H. Duman, they are part of the Kanayatn Dayak Ot Danum Clump-Maanyan-Ngaju. However, research completed by W. Stohr conflicts with C. H. Duman's theory. Stohr's research suggests that when considering aspects of the region, language and customary law, the Dayak Kanayatn group appears to be more closely associated with the Land Dayak-Kalimantan group than the Ot-Danum-Maanyan-Ngaju group. Landmark District names have been based on the majority Dayak community Kanayatn which is part of the clump Land Dayak (or Land Djak in Dutch spelling). Kanayatn and Salako are, in fact, one tribe and Salako people assume that \"Kanayatn\" is not the real name of this tribe.\n"}
{"id": "1563544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1563544", "title": "Kurt Grelling", "text": "Kurt Grelling\n\nKurt Grelling (2 March 1886 – September 1942) was a German logician and philosopher, member of the Berlin Circle.\n\nKurt Grelling was born on 2 March 1886 in Berlin. His father, the Doctor of Jurisprudence Richard Grelling, and his mother, Margarethe (née Simon), were Jewish. Shortly after his arrival in 1905 at University of Göttingen, Grelling began a collaboration with philosopher Leonard Nelson, with whom he tried to solve Russell's paradox, which had shaken the foundations of mathematics when it was announced in 1903. Their 1908 paper included new paradoxes, including a semantic paradox that was named the Grelling–Nelson paradox.\n\nHe received his doctorate in mathematics from the same university in 1910 with a dissertation on the development of arithmetics in axiomatic set theory, advised by David Hilbert. In a recorded interview with Herbert Enderton, Alfred Tarski mentions a meeting he had with Grelling in 1938, and says that Grelling was the author of the earliest textbook in set theory, probably but wrongly referring to this dissertation, since William Henry Young and Grace Chisholm Young's \"Set Theory\" was published in 1906.\n\nAs a skilled linguist, Grelling translated philosophical works from French, Italian and English to German, including four of Bertrand Russell's works. He became a strong proponent of Russell's writings thereafter.\n\nFrom 1911 to 1922 Grelling published exclusively journalistic articles in publications connected with the Social Democratic Party of Germany.\n\nIn 1915 his father, Richard Grelling, wrote the anti-war book \"J'Accuse\", condemning the actions of the Central Powers. It enjoyed huge sales outside Germany. Richard followed this success up with \"Das Verbrechen\" (\"The Crime\"), in which he attacked his critics, who included Kurt Grelling.\n\nFrom 1924 onwards Grelling's publications were exclusively in the field of positivist philosophy.\nUnable to find a university position in Göttingen or Berlin, Grelling had to teach mathematics, philosophy and physics in secondary schools. Nevertheless, he worked with Hans Reichenbach in planning the meetings of the Berlin Circle, which was closely associated with the Vienna Circle. In 1933, Reichenbach emigrated to Turkey and the Nazis forced Grelling to retire. But he struggled to keep the Berlin Circle active by organizing small seminars and colloquia.\n\nGrelling collaborated with Kurt Gödel and in 1936 he published an article in which he defended Gödel's incompleteness theorem against an erroneous interpretation, according to which Gödel's theorem is a paradox as Russell's paradox (see \"References\").\n\nAlthough many of his relatives and friends had fled Germany, he did not think seriously about leaving until 1937, in which year he went to Brussels to work with Paul Oppenheim, this time writing several papers on the analysis of scientific explanation and on Gestalt psychology.\n\nOn 10 May 1940, the first day of the German invasion in Belgium, Grelling was arrested. He was deported to southern France, where he was interned for over two years under the Vichy regime. Oppenheim and Hempel tried to help Grelling by securing an appointment for him at the New School for Social Research in New York City. News of the position and a visa to the United States reached the camp where Grelling had been joined by his wife Greta, who had refused to divorce him for safety reasons. But U.S. immigration officials were perplexed by Grelling's alleged propensity towards Communism, so there was a delay that was fatal to Grelling. He and his wife were shipped to Auschwitz, arriving there on September 18, 1942 and perishing in the gas chambers that day or soon thereafter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49977873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49977873", "title": "Laure Pigeon", "text": "Laure Pigeon\n\nLaure Pigeon (1882 – 1965) was a French medium who produced an oeuvre of 500 drawings related to her Spiritualist practice. She is considered one of the foremost Art Brut creators.\n\nLaure Pigeon was born in 1882 in Paris. Laure’s mother Alida, a laundress, died when she was five years old. After her mother's death she lived in Brittany with her paternal grandmother, where she received a strict upbringing. At twenty-nine she married a dentist against the wishes of her family. Twenty-two years later she separated from her husband, Edmond, after discovering his infidelity. After their separation she lived in a boarding house where she was introduced to Spiritualism by another woman tenant. Fifteen years later, she moved into an apartment in the Paris region where she pursued a solitary practice of Spiritualism.\n\nLaure Pigeon made her first drawing at 52, under Spiritualist inspiration. From the mid 1930s onwards, Pigeon created hundreds of drawings, most featuring images of melancholy female silhouettes, others spelling out words, often embellished names: Laure, Edmond her husband, Alida her mother, Lili her sister, or the apostle Pierre to whom Laure claimed to have been married in a former life \n\nPigeon's work, 500 large drawings and additional notebooks, was discovered after her death in 1965. Jean Dubuffet acquired her work for his Collection de l'Art Brut.\n\nLaure Pigeon's work is primarily held in the Collection de l'Art Brut museum in Lausanne, Switzerland. Her drawings have been lent to other institutions for exhibitions, including the 2011 \"Habiter poétiquement le monde\" exhibit at the Lille Métropole Musée d’art moderne.\n"}
{"id": "5468628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5468628", "title": "List of Grand Commanders of the Dannebrog", "text": "List of Grand Commanders of the Dannebrog\n\nGrand Commanders of the Order of the Dannebrog have been appointed by the Sovereign of the Royal Danish Orders of Chivalry, i.e. the Danish monarch, since the general reorganization of the Order by royal letters patent of June 28, 1808. The Grand Commanders form a special class above the three ordinary classes of the Order of the Dannebrog. Thus, they outrank the Knights Grand Cross of the Dannebrog. Together with the Knights of the Order of the Elephant Grand Commanders constitute the Chapter of the Royal Danish Orders of Chivalry.\n\nGrand Commanders are, or have been, either\n\nPresently seven persons wear the Grand Commander's insignia. They are the six Grand Commanders and HM Queen Margrethe II, the Sovereign of the Order.\nBy royal ordinance of October 10, 1951 women can be appointed Grand Commanders. Therefore, the women that appear in the list before that date were, strictly speaking, not appointed Grand Commanders as much as awarded the honour of wearing the insignia of a Grand Commander.\n\n"}
{"id": "2875188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2875188", "title": "List of Samoans", "text": "List of Samoans\n\nThis is a list of Samoans in alphabetical order by surname. Please do not add names of individuals or groups who don't have Wikipedia articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1614241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1614241", "title": "Mel Ferrer", "text": "Mel Ferrer\n\nMelchor Gastón Ferrer (August 25, 1917 – June 2, 2008) was an American actor and director of stage and screen, film producer and the first husband of Audrey Hepburn.\n\nFerrer was born in the Elberon section of Long Branch, New Jersey, of Cuban and Irish descent. His father, Dr. José María Ferrer (1857–1920), was born in Cuba, of Spanish ancestry, and was an authority on pneumonia and served as chief of staff of St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City. His American mother, Mary Matilda Irene (née O'Donohue; 1878–1967), was a daughter of coffee broker Joseph J. O'Donohue, New York's City Commissioner of Parks, a founder of the Coffee Exchange, and a founder of the Brooklyn-New York Ferry. An ardent opponent of Prohibition, Irene Ferrer was named, in 1934, the New York State chairman of the Citizens Committee for Sane Liquor Laws.\n\nFerrer had three siblings. His elder sister was Dr. M. Irené Ferrer, a cardiologist and educator, who helped refine the cardiac catheter and electrocardiogram. She died in 2004 in Manhattan, New York at age 89 of pneumonia and congestive heart failure.\n\nHis brother, Dr. Jose M. Ferrer, born 1912, was a surgeon; he died in 1982 at age 70 after an abdominal surgery complication. His other sister, Teresa (Terry) Ferrer, was the religion editor of \"The New York Herald Tribune\" and education editor of \"Newsweek\". The family is not related to actors José and Miguel Ferrer.\n\nHis mother's family, the O'Donohues, were prominent Roman Catholics. Mel Ferrer's aunt, Marie Louise O'Donohue (Mrs. Joseph J. O'Donohue, Jr.) was named a papal countess, and his mother's sister, Teresa Riley O'Donohue, a leading figure in American Catholic charities and welfare organizations, was granted permission by Pope Pius XI to install a private chapel in her New York City apartment.\n\nFerrer was privately educated at the Bovée School in New York (one of his classmates was the future author Louis Auchincloss) and Canterbury Prep School in Connecticut before attending Princeton University until his sophomore year, at which time he dropped out to devote more time to acting. He also worked as an editor of a small Vermont newspaper and wrote a children's book, \"Tito's Hats\" (Garden City Publishing, 1940).\n\nFerrer began acting in summer stock as a teenager and in 1937 won the Theatre Intime award for best new play by a Princeton undergraduate; the play was called \"Awhile to Work\" and co-starred another college student, Frances Pilchard, who would become Ferrer's first wife that same year.\n\nAt age twenty-one, he was appearing on the Broadway stage as a chorus dancer, making his debut there as an actor two years later. He appeared as a chorus dancer in two unsuccessful musicals, Cole Porter's \"You Never Know (musical)\" and \"Everywhere I Roam\".\n\nHis first acting roles were in a revival of \"Kind Lady\" (1940) and \"Cue for Passion\" (1940) directed by Otto Preminger.\n\nAfter a bout with polio, Ferrer worked as a disc jockey in Texas and Arkansas and moved to Mexico to work on a novel, \"Tito's Hat\" published in 1940.\n\nFerrer was contracted to Columbia Pictures as a director along with several other \"potentials\" who began as dialogue directors: Fred Sears, William Castle, Henry Levin and Robert Gordon.\n\nAmong the films he worked on were \"Louisiana Hayride\" (1944), \"They Live in Fear\" (1944), \"Sergeant Mike\" (1944), \"Together Again\" (1944), \"Meet Miss Bobby Socks\" (1944), \"Let's Go Steady\" (1944), \"Ten Cents a Dance\" (1945), and \"A Thousand and One Nights\" (1945). Some of these were Bs but others – such as 'Thousand and One Nights\" – were more prestigious.\n\nFerrer directed \"The Girl of the Limberlost\" (1945) a B movie with Ruth Nelson.\n\nEventually, he returned to Broadway, where he starred in \"Strange Fruit\" (1945–46), a play based on the novel by Lillian Smith. It was directed by Jose Ferrer (no relation).\n\nFerrer then directed Jose Ferrer in the 1946 stage production of \"Cyrano de Bergerac\".\n\nHe worked as an assistant on \"The Fugitive\" (1947), directed by John Ford in Mexico. Along with Gregory Peck, Dorothy McGuire and Joseph Cotten, he founded the La Jolla Playhouse in Los Angeles.\n\nFerrer made his screen acting debut with a starring role in \"Lost Boundaries\" (1949), playing a black person who passes for white. The film was controversial but much acclaimed.\n\nFerrer had a support role in \"Born to Be Bad\" (1950) at RKO, directed by Nicholas Ray. At that studio he directed Claudette Colbert in \"The Secret Fury\" (1950) and did some directing on \"Vendetta\" (1950), \"The Racket\" (1951) and \"Macao\" (1952).\n\nFerrer then starred as a bullfighter in \"The Brave Bulls\" (1951) for Robert Rossen at Columbia.\n\nFerrer fought with Arthur Kennedy over Marlene Dietrich in \"Rancho Notorious\" (1952) directed by Fritz Lang at RKO.\n\nFerrer went over to MGM replacing Fernando Lamas as the villain in \"Scaramouche\" (1952). The film, particularly notable for a long climactic duel between Ferrer and Stewart Granger, was a huge hit.\n\nMGM kept him on for \"Lili\" (1953) playing the puppeteer loved by Leslie Caron. It was another large success; Ferrer and Caron also got a hit single out of it, \"Hi-Lili-Hi-Lo\". \"Saadia\" (1953), which Ferrer made with Cornel Wilde was a flop but \"Knights of the Round Table\" (1954) was a big hit; Ferrer played King Arthur.\n\nFerrer met Audrey Hepburn at a party and she wanted to do a play together. They appeared in \"Ondine\" (1954) on Broadway and later got married.\n\nFerrer went to Italy to make \"Proibito\" (1954) and England for \"Oh... Rosalinda!!\" (1955), directed by Powell and Pressburger. Neither film was widely seen, but \"War and Peace\" (1956) was a big success; Ferrer played Prince Andrei, co-starring with his then-wife, Audrey Hepburn. In France he supported Ingrid Bergman in \"Elena and Her Men\" (1956) directed by Jean Renoir.\n\nFerrer and Hepburn made \"Mayerling\" (1957) for American television; it was released theatrically in some countries.\n\nFerrer returned to MGM to make \"The Vintage\" (1957) with Pier Angeli which was a big flop. He made two films for 20th Century Fox: their all star adaptation of \"The Sun Also Rises\" (1957) and \"Fräulein\" (1958) a war story with Dana Wynter. At MGM he was one of the last three people on Earth in \"The World, the Flesh and the Devil\" (1959), another flop.\n\nFerrer went to Italy to be star in Roger Vadim's vampire movie \"Blood and Roses\" (1960). After an English horror film \"The Hands of Orlac\" (1960) he did an Italian adventure film \"Charge of the Black Lancers\" (1962).\n\nFerrer was one of several stars in \"The Devil and the Ten Commandments\" (1962) and \"The Longest Day\" (1962). He had a cameo in his wife's \"Paris When It Sizzles\" (1964) and was Marcus Aurelius Cleander in \"The Fall of the Roman Empire\" (1964).\n\nFerrer turned to television, doing some directing for the series \"The Farmer's Daughter\" (1963–1966) starring Inger Stevens.\n\nFerrer had a support role in \"Sex and the Single Girl\" (1964).\n\nFerrer produced and starred in the biopic \"El Greco\" (1966) playing the famous painter. He also produced \"Wait Until Dark\" (1967) starring his wife; a big hit. He and Hepburn were divorced in 1968.\n\nFerrer was mostly a jobbing actor in the 1970s, working much in Italy. Among his credits were \"A Time for Loving\" (1972); \"The Antichrist\" (1974) in Italy; \"Brannigan\" (1974), a crime drama set in London that starred John Wayne; \"Silent Action\" (1975) and \"The Suspicious Death of a Minor\" (1975), both for Sergio Martino; \"The Net\" (1975), shot in Germany; \"The Black Corsair\" (1976), an Italian swashbuckler; \"Gangbuster\" (1977) in Italy; \"The Pyjama Girl Case\" (1977); \"Seagulls Fly Low\" (1977).\n\nHe also played a blackmailing reporter in the \"Columbo\" episode \"Requiem for a Fallen Star\" (starring Anne Baxter).\n\nIn America he was in \"Hi-Riders\" (1978), \"The Norseman\" (1978), \"\" (1979), and \"The Fifth Floor\" (1979). In 1979, he portrayed Dr. Brogli in an episode of \"Return of the Saint\".\n\nIn Europe he was in \"The Visitor\" (1979), \"Island of the Fishmen\" (1980), \"Nightmare City\" (1980), \"The Great Alligator River\" (1980) and \"Eaten Alive!\" (1980). He went to Germany for \"Lili Marleen\" (1981)\n\nHe also appeared in two films with Marisol, the Spanish star: \"Cabriola\" (as director) and \"La chica del molino rojo\" (as actor).\n\nFrom 1981 to 1984 he had a role opposite Jane Wyman as Angela Channing's attorney and, briefly, her husband Phillip Erikson in \"Falcon Crest\", as well as directing a few of that series's episodes.\n\nHe also appeared in the mini series \"Peter the Great\" (1986) and \"Dream West\" (1986).\n\nLater credits included \"Eye of the Widow\" (1991) and \"Catherine the Great\" (1995).\nFor his contributions to the motion picture industry, Mel Ferrer has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6268 Hollywood Blvd.\n\nFerrer was married five times, to four women, with whom he had six children. His wives were:\n\nBefore his marriage to Elizabeth Soukhotine in 1971, Ferrer also had a relationship with 29-year-old interior designer Tessa Kennedy.\n\nA resident of Carpinteria, California, Ferrer died of heart failure at a convalescent home in Santa Barbara on June 2, 2008. He was 90 years old.\n\nAs Actor:\n\n\nAs Director/Producer/Dialogue Coach:\n\n"}
{"id": "57871882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57871882", "title": "Mireia Boya Busquet", "text": "Mireia Boya Busquet\n\nMireia Boya Busquet (born 1979) is a Catalan scientist, activist, and politician. She is a councilor of the Aran municipality of Les. Since February 2018 she has been part of the national secretariat of the Popular Unity Candidacy (CUP). She was a member of the Catalan Parliament from 2016 to 2017.\n\nThe daughter of Ernesto Boya and the politician , she has a degree in Environmental Sciences from the Autonomous University of Barcelona (2002), a master's degree in Landscape Design (2004), and a PhD in Land Management and Planning (2009) from the Université de Montréal. In the professional field, she is a consultant and associate professor of the Humanities Department of Pompeu Fabra University.\n\nMireia Boya Busquet has been a fighter for the recognition of Occitan identity of the Valley of Aran, and was the first member of the Catalan Parliament to use the Aranese dialect in the Parliament of Catalonia. Her brother, , has been general director of Archives, Libraries, Museum, and Heritage of the Generalitat beginning in January 2016, an office that he was dismissed from after the 2017 suspension of Catalonian self-government.\n\nBoya is a founder and former coordinator of the Assemblea Nacional Catalana in Val d'Aran and councilor in the city of Les for the Corròp party, framed in Occitan nationalism. In the 2015 elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, she was a candidate of the CUP for the district of Lleida, after a vote in primaries. Boya, who was second in the list in her constituency, was not elected, but on 18 December 2015, during the tense negotiations between the CUP and the pro-independence coalition Junts pel Sí, the CUP's number one, Ramon Usall, resigned for personal reasons. In this way, Boya occupied the post of regional parliamentarian. She participated in the plenary sessions of the Parliament that voted for the roadmap to independence for Catalonia, and voted the Unilateral declaration of Independence of Catalonia.\n\nIn the elections of 21 December 2017, of the 5,265 votes cast in Val d'Aran, the CUP received 174 – 3.3% of the total.\n\nIn February 2018, she was elected a member of the CUP National Secretariat as an independent candidate with 662 votes.\n\nA defender of the Occitan nation, Boya upholds a \"project of a country with two languages of its own\", a country that looks \"to the north, to Occitania\".\n\nOn 22 December 2017, Judge Pablo Llarena of the Supreme Court of Spain agreed on the inquiry (previously charged) for rebellion against Mireia Boya (president of the CUP's parliamentary group), Artur Mas (president of the PDeCat), Marta Rovira (secretary general of the ERC), Anna Gabriel (spokesperson of the CUP), Marta Pascal (general coordinator of the CUP), and (president of the AMI), all for belonging to the organizing team of the Catalan independence referendum held on 1 October 2017 and with a decisive role in the secessionist plan, whose roadmap was annulled by the Spanish Constitutional Court. Boya was declared as investigated on 14 February 2018, being released without precautionary measures.\n"}
{"id": "20494704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20494704", "title": "Mohammed Al-Kandari", "text": "Mohammed Al-Kandari\n\nMohammed Al-Kandari is a member of the Kuwaiti National Assembly, representing the first district. Born in 1971, Al-Kandari studied medicine before being elected to the National Assembly in 2008. While political parties are technically illegal in Kuwait, Al-Kandari affiliates with the Islamic Salafi Alliance. \n\nOn December 24, 2006, Al-Kandari told Al-Watan daily that Muslims should not wish their Christian friends \"Merry Christmas.\" Al-Kandari argued that to do so contradicts with Islam because Christians believe Jesus was the son of God.\n\n"}
{"id": "36558833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36558833", "title": "Revolutionary Stewards", "text": "Revolutionary Stewards\n\nDuring the First World War (1914–1918), the Revolutionary Stewards (German: \"Revolutionäre Obleute\") were shop stewards who were independent from the official unions and freely chosen by workers in various German industries. They rejected the war policies of the German Empire and the support which parliamentary representatives of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) gave to these policies. They also played a role during the German Revolution of 1918–19.\n\nThe SPD, at the time the largest workers' party in Europe, voted for war credits for the imperial government in 1914. Karl Liebknecht was initially the only SPD member of the Reichstag who publicly rejected the measure. He was absent for the vote in August and then voted against the measure in December 1914. With the split between the USPD and the \"Majority\" SPD there was a party in the Reichstag opposing the so-called policy of \"party truce\" (\"Burgfriedenspolitik\") between the various political forces. The Stewards supported the USPD's outright opposition to the war.\n\nSince most of the union functionaries supported the political truce, the Stewards created an opposition of industrial workers against the First World War in Germany. This was in part a reaction to the growing number of deaths on the front and the growing social need at home. Their most important speakers were Richard Müller and Emil Barth. The Revolutionary Stewards were especially strongly represented in the Berlin armament industry. They had already had experience with strikes, including the protest strike against the imprisonment of Karl Liebknecht in summer 1916 and the wave of strikes centered on Braunschweig and Leipzig in January 1917.\n\nThe Stewards were a crucial force in organizing the January Strike of 1918, which was centred on Berlin, the Ruhr, Saxony, Hamburg and Kiel and in which strikers demanded the end of the war through a negotiated peace and a democratisation of the empire. They were in part inspired by the success achieved by the Bolsheviks under Lenin and Trotsky in the Russian October Revolution only a few months earlier. For this reason, the strikes were also directed against plans of annexation, which Central Powers Germany and Austria-Hungary were pursuing in ongoing peace negotiations with Soviet Russia in Brest-Litovsk. The strikers demanded fundamental political changes within Germany as well as a just peace agreement with Russia that did not include territorial claims by the German Empire against the \"New Russia\". These demands were not met by the Supreme Army Command (or \"Oberste Heeresleitung\") and the imperial government of Chancellor Georg von Hertling.\n\nThe strike was ended when the \"Oberste Heeresleitung\" declared an aggravated state of siege, put some factories under military protection and conscripted many of the striking workers for military service.\n\nIn the early days of November 1918, the Revolutionary Stewards were one of the few political groups demanding an end to the monarchy. In addition, unlike the \"Majority\" SPD of Friedrich Ebert they were also in favour of \"socialisation\" of industries and government by workers' (and soldiers') councils rather than a parliamentary system. On 2 November 1918 there was a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Stewards, also attended by Liebknecht, which voted 21 to 19 against initiating revolutionary action on 4 November as the workers were not yet disposed to act. They settled on 11 November. In Berlin, the Stewards numbered around 80 to 100. The core group numbered only about a dozen.\n\nOn 8 November, driven by events to accelerate their plan, the Stewards called for a general strike in Berlin on the next day. The Spartacists, the SPD and the unions supported the call. On 9 November, workers' and soldiers' councils were formed, the headquarters of police was occupied and hundreds of thousands of demonstrators converged on the city centre. Imperial Chancellor Max of Baden announced that Emperor Wilhelm II had abdicated and handed over his office to Friedrich Ebert. In the afternoon Ebert grudgingly asked the USPD to nominate three ministers for the future government. Yet that evening a group of several hundred followers of the Stewards occupied the Reichstag and held an impromptu debate. They called for the election of soldiers' and workers' councils the next day (one per battalion or 1,000 workers). They were to assemble at \"Zirkus Busch\" and elect a provisional revolutionary government—the \"Rat der Volksbeauftragten\".\n\nIn order to keep control of events and against his own anti-revolutionary convictions, Ebert now decided that he needed to co-opt the workers' councils and thus—whilst the formal head of government—also become the leader of the revolution. On 10 November, the SPD, led by Ebert managed to ensure that a majority of the newly elected workers' and (especially) soldiers' councils came from among their own supporters. Meanwhile, the USPD agreed to work with him and share power in the \"Rat der Volksbeauftragten\", the new revolutionary government. Ebert announced the pact between the two socialist parties to the assembled councils who were eager for a unified socialist front and approved the parity of three members each coming from SPD and USPD. However, the Stewards had anticipated that they would fail to prevent the SPD from dominating the \"Rat der Volksbeauftragten\" (\"Council of the People's Deputies\"). They thus called for an Executive Committee (\"Aktionsausschuss\") of the workers' and soldiers' councils to be set up in parallel to the \"Rat der Volksbeauftragten\" and that would be under the control of the stewards. Its powers were to be left deliberately vague. Emil Barth, who was presiding over the assembly, then made a tactical error by giving a long-winded speech rather than moving directly to the vote. Listeners, including Ebert, were able to deduce the Stewards' intentions from what Barth said. Ebert made another speech, declaring that the committee was superfluous, but if it was to be set up, it must be made up equally of SPD and USPD just like the \"Rat der Volksbeauftragten\". When Barth said that no SPD delegate must sit on the committee, the assembly exploded with protest, in particular from the soldiers' councils. After an interruption, the session continued and Barth announced an Executive Committee of 20 members: ten soldiers and ten workers. Half of the latter would be supporters of the SPD, half supporters of the Stewards. The soldiers's delegates were to be elected on 11 November. The Stewards had lost.\n\nFrom 16 to 21 December 1918, the \"Reichsrätekongress\" or \"Reichsversammlung der Arbeiter- und Soldatenräte\" (Congress of Workers' and Soldiers' Councils) met in Berlin inside the Prussian Landtag building. There was one delegate for every 200,000 citizens and 100,000 soldiers. Out of 514 delegates, around 300 came from the SPD, about 100 from the USPD (of which ten were Spartacists) and the rest were liberals, not associated with any party or members of independent revolutionary groups. The Congress took some important decisions (in each case with a broad majority):\nHowever, the Congress also passed two resolutions that went against the interests of the SPD leadership. First, it called on the \"Council of the People's Deputies\" to begin immediately with the socialisation of all \"suitable\" industries, especially mining. Secondly, it approved the so-called \"Hamburger Punkte\" that called for the election of officers, for disciplinary power to lie with the soldiers' councils, no insignia of rank and no rank off-duty. However, these demands were anathema to the leadership of the military, in particular those relating to the position of the soldiers' councils vis-à-vis the regular officer corps.\n\nThese last two decisions of the Congress underscored a division regarding short-term changes to the economy, the bureaucracy and the military between a broad-based consensus across party lines of the democratic-socialist movement on the one hand, and the leadership of the SPD and the military on the other. The SPD members of the \"Council of the People's Deputies\" consequently dragged their feet over the implementation of these last two points, causing increasing resentment and anger among the labour movement and its more radical representatives like the Spartacists and the Stewards.\n\nOn 29 December, the only representative of the Revolutionary Stewards, Emil Barth (also a member of the USPD) and two further representatives of the USPD finally left the \"Council of the People's Deputies\" in protest against the events of the \"Weihnachtskämpfe\" (Skirmish of the Berlin Schloss), in which government troops were deployed against the \"Volksmarinedivision\", a unit of leftist revolutionary soldiers established on 11 November 1918. The fighting caused many on the left to accuse the leadership of the SPD of having betrayed the revolution.\n\nAlthough the Revolutionary Stewards supported the idea of a council republic rather than a parliamentary democracy, they rejected the KPD, founded on 30/31 December 1918, which pursued the same goal. This was because the KPD was not ready to accept the five conditions set by Richard Müller on behalf of the Revolutionary Stewards: withdrawal of the anti-voting decision, a program committee with equal representation, condemnation of \"putschism\", taking part in party publicity and abandonment of the additional name \"Spartacus League\".\n\nIn the atmosphere of outrage created on the left by the military action against the \"Volksmarinedivision\"—which Liebknecht called \"Eberts Blutweihnacht\" (Ebert's Bloody Christmas)—the Stewards were among the initiators of the so-called \"Spartakusaufstand\" (Spartacus Uprising) in January 1919. Emil Eichhorn, a member of the USPD and head of the Berlin police (\"Polizeipräsident\"), had refused to act against the revolting sailors during the Christmas crisis. Some of his men from the \"Sicherheitspolizei\" had even actively supported the uprising. Paul Hirsch, Prussian Minister of the Interior, thus dismissed Eichhorn on 4 January. Notwithstanding their differences, the Stewards, the USPD and the Spartacists called for a protest demonstration in support of Eichhorn.\n\nOn 5 January 1919, around half a million people gathered at a mass demonstration in Berlin. Armed demonstrators stormed the Berlin newspaper quarter, where they occupied the editorial office of the SPD paper \"Vorwärts\" as well as other publishing buildings. The main railway stations were also seized. However, the force of the popular response caught the organizers by surprise. At a meeting at the police headquarters attended by 70 Stewards, ten members of the USPD led by Georg Ledebour, three representatives of the soldiers, Liebknecht and Karl Pieck for the KDP and Eichhorn. Caught up in the momentum of the hour, they lost sight of the real situation, overestimating the support for their actions from the military in the Berlin area. They voted 80 to six to topple the government. The Stewards' representative , Karl Liebknecht (KPD) and Georg Ledebour (USPD) now signed a proclamation demanding the toppling of Ebert's government. They wanted to prevent elections to the National Assembly and to continue with the revolution. A \"provisionary revolutionary committee\" was set up. It numbered 53 members, including Scholze, Liebknecht and Ledebour, and declared that it had taken over the government. Its only action, though, was to issue a call for another demonstration on the next day.\n\nThe masses reassembled on Sunday, 6 January. However, no orders came from the revolutionary leaders. In isolated actions, the \"Reichsdruckerei\" and a telegraph office were seized. No one occupied the government buildings—whilst some armed supporters of the Ebert government gathered around the Reichskanzlei. The masses started to disperse and by midnight the centre of Berlin had been vacated. During the day, the committee had relocated to the Marstall, the barracks of the \"Volksmarinedivision\", but had been asked to leave and thus returned to the police headquarters.\n\nThere they remained, when Ebert accepted mediation by those of the USPD who had left the \"Council of the People's Deputies\" in late December. Ebert had just one condition: the occupation of the newspapers must end. On 7 January, the revolutionary committee declined. Whilst negotiations continued, Ebert prepared for a military response. He made Gustav Noske, since the withdrawal of the USPD a member of the \"Rat der Volksbeauftragten\", supreme commander of the \"Freikorps\" and rallied the regular troops of the Berlin area to his cause.\n\nOn the orders of Ebert, government forces commanded by Gustav Noske crushed the uprising between 9 and 12 January. Its defeat came after intense struggles, especially around the Berlin police headquarters and the publishing building of Vorwärts, in which a reported 165 people lost their lives. The dead included several prisoners who were summarily executed, some after they had approached the government forces under a flag of truce.\n\nThe January uprising led to the dissolution of the Revolutionary Steward´s network, because many of its members took part in the uprising while others such as Richard Müller opposed it. The organization of the Revolutionary Stewards dissolved, though many of its members continued to work in the council structures. The struggles, at times approaching the level of civil war, which took place in some regions of Germany in the following months put the council movement increasingly on the defensive. Various calls for regional council republics, for example in Bremen or, more famously, the Bavarian Soviet Republic, were finally suppressed with military force by regular armed forces and right-wing Freikorps troops by mid-1919.\n\nUnder the Weimar Constitution which came into force in August 1919, the republic became a pluralistic parliamentary democracy. After the defeat of the council movement, the Revolutionary Stewards still had influence and called for and helped execute a general strike against the right-wing nationalist and anti-democratic Kapp Putsch of March 1920. The strike brought the economy to a virtual stand-still and, together with the refusal of the bureaucracy to cooperate with the new government, caused the putsch to fail in a matter of days. However, in some parts of Germany, the striking workers refused to return to work and offered armed resistance to the legitimate government of president Ebert and chancellor Bauer. The most significant of these events was the Ruhr Uprising, which was crushed by Reichswehr and \"Freikorps\" in April 1920.\n\nAfter 1920, the former Stewards did not play a notable role in the German labour movement any more. Many former activists became members of the KPD, especially after the KPD merged with the left wing of the USPD when the latter split at the end of 1920. Occasionally it operated under the alternate name \"United Communist Party of Germany\" (VKPD). Other Stewards remained in the USPD and future related groups, or joined the SPD again, after a part of the remaining USPD returned to the SPD in 1922. Towards the end of 1922, the core of the local structures of the USPD in Berlin, which continued to exist as a small party, was composed largely of former Revolutionary Stewards.\n\nSome Stewards who continued to follow a party-independent \"antiauthoritarian\" council model joined the anarcho-syndicalist Free Workers' Union of Germany (FAUD).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19730729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19730729", "title": "Richard D. McCormick", "text": "Richard D. McCormick\n\nRichard David McCormick (July 4, 1940- ) is an American business executive. \n\nMcCormick served as CEO of US West from 1990 to 1998. He was also a director of Wells Fargo & Company (1983-2010) and an honorary chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). \n\nMcCormick was born in Fort Dodge, Iowa, the son of Elmo Eugene McCormick and Virgilla (Lawler) McCormick. He received his BS degree in electrical engineering from Iowa State University in 1961. During his time as an undergraduate he was a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity. Post graduation he went to work for AT&T as an engineer in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nOn June 29, 1963, he married Mary Patricia Smola, and had four children.\n\nHe moved to Northwestern Bell in 1969, rising to the presidency of the Omaha-based company in 1982. A year after the divestiture of the Bell System, he went to Denver in 1985 as executive vice president of US West, Inc., the new regional Bell operating company. McCormick was elected president and chief operating officer in 1986, chief executive officer in 1990, and chairman in 1992 (replacing Jack A. MacAllister in both instances).\n\nIn 1995 McCormick was named chairman of the United States Council for International Business, the US affiliate of the International Chamber of Commerce. He stepped down as chairman and was named vice chairman in February 2001. Elected chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce in 2001, he retired in 2003 and was given the emeritus title of honorary chairman. \n\nHaving been elected a director of Norwest Bank in 1983, upon the merger with Wells Fargo & Company in 1998 he became a director of Wells Fargo. McCormick retired as CEO of US West in 1998 and as chairman of the board of directors in 1999. Solomon J. Trujillo replaced him as chairman. In January, 1999 McCormick was appointed vice president of International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and in January, 2001 he became the president of the body. \n\nIn the past McCormick served on the boards of Nortel Networks Corporation, United Technologies Corporation, Health Trio, UAL Corporation, Wells Fargo & Company, and Unocal, and as a trustee for the Denver Art Museum. \n\nActive in Republican politics, he has been a member of George W. Bush for President, Bush-Cheney '04, John McCain 2008, and the Freedom and Free Enterprise Political Action Committee.\n"}
{"id": "316069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316069", "title": "Rómulo Betancourt", "text": "Rómulo Betancourt\n\nRómulo Ernesto Betancourt Bello (22 February 1908 – 28 September 1981; ), known as \"The Father of Venezuelan Democracy\", was the 47th and 54th President of Venezuela, serving from 1945 to 1948 and again from 1959 to 1964, as well as leader of Acción Democrática, Venezuela's dominant political party in the 20th century.\n\nBetancourt, one of Venezuela's most important political figures, led a tumultuous and highly controversial career in Latin American politics. Periods of exile brought Betancourt in contact with various Latin American countries as well as the United States, securing his legacy as one of the most prominent international leaders to emerge from 20th-century Latin America. Scholars credit Betancourt as the Founding Father of modern democratic Venezuela.\n\nRómulo Betancourt was born in Guatire, a town near Caracas. His parents were Luis Betancourt Bello (from Canary origins) and Virginia Bello Milano. He attended a private school in Guatire, followed by high school at the \"Liceo Caracas\" in Caracas. He studied law at the Central University of Venezuela.\n\nAs a young man he was expelled from Venezuela for radical agitation and moved to Costa Rica where he founded, and led, a number of radical and Communist student groups. In the early 1930s, while in Costa Rica, he became at the young age of 22, the one of the main militants of that country's Communist Party. In 1937, after resigning from the Communist Party and returning to Venezuela, he founded the Partido Democrático Nacional, which became an official political party in 1941 as Acción Democrática (AD).\n\nColombian leader Jorge Eliécer Gaitán claimed Betancourt had \"offered him arms and money to launch a revolution in Colombia\" which was part of Betancourt's alleged plan to build a solid phalanx of left-wing regimes in the Caribbean. It was alleged by Azula Barrera and Colombian President Mariano Ospina Pérez that Betancourt had supported the armed rising at the 1948 Inter-American Conference (Bogotazo) that left more than a thousand people dead, among these the political assassination of Jorge Eliécer Gaitán. This started a new volatile political period in neighboring Colombia some claim continues to this day with FARC.\n\nBetancourt became president in 1945 by means of a military coup d'état and, during his time in office, completed an impressive agenda. His accomplishments included the declaration of universal suffrage, the institution of social reforms, and securing half of the profits generated by foreign oil companies for Venezuela. His government worked closely with the International Refugee Organization to aid European refugees and displaced persons who could not or would not return home after World War II; his government assumed responsibility for the legal protection and resettlement of tens of thousands of refugees inside Venezuela. The refugee initiative was the subject of great controversies within his government with the winning side led by Betancourt's secretary of Agriculture, Eduardo Mendoza.\n\nIn 1941, before AD's entry into policymaking, Venezuela received 85,279,158 bolívars from oil taxes, out\nof a total oil value of 691,093,935 bolivars. Before Betancourt's changes in the taxing system, the state of Venezuela was making only a fraction of what foreign oil companies were making in profit. President Betancourt had overthrown the Isaías Medina Angarita government which enacted a law to tax oil companies up to 60%, and reserved for the government the right to raise more taxes as needed. Betancourt changed the law to \"Fifty Fifty.\"\nOne of Betancourt's original objectives was the nationalization of the country's oil industry. Mexico had nationalized its oil industry in 1938, and because its economy was more diversified than Venezuela's, there was little to no backlash. Though oil nationalization became one of AD's main objectives, Venezuela's economy was not stable enough to handle potential boycotts by foreign oil companies and would have left nation fiscally vulnerable.\n\nRationalizing the complications of nationalization at the time, Betancourt's government raised taxes on oil production instead accomplishing the same goal: Venezuela's oil riches to benefit Venezuelans. In the late 1940s Venezuela was producing close to annually and as production climbed, the tax followed. Venezuela was the Allies' top oil supplier during the wars occurring in the European continent. Betancourt identified this potential to play an important historical role, using the knowledge to his nation's advantage transforming Venezuela into a global player. Germany then lacked reliable access to oil limiting troop movements. Some historians identify this vulnerability a deciding factor in Hitler's defeat. Venezuelan oil played a key role.\n\nAccording to Betancourt, a spike in taxes was just as effective as nationalizing the oil industry, \"Tax income was increased from then to such a degree that nationalization was unnecessary to obtain maximum economic benefits for the people of the country\". Oil companies were forced to cede to the demands of labor unions and no longer entitled to make larger profits than the Venezuelan government. As a result, Betancourt's government generally had full support of the labor unions as the administration openly encouraged workers to organize. In 1946, 500 labor unions were created. Another notable achievement of Betancourt's first administration include the termination of the concession policy, the initial development of refineries within Venezuela, and tremendous improvement in worker conditions and pay. Juan Pablo Pérez Alfonso served as Minister of Development in Betancourt's first term.\n\nOn 27 November 1948, Carlos Delgado Chalbaud, Marcos Pérez Jiménez and Luis Felipe Llovera Páez launched the 1948 Venezuelan coup d'état and overthrew the elected president Rómulo Gallegos, and Betancourt went into exile in New York City. In exile he planned a political return sustained on democratic principles and open elections legitimizing his national leadership role. His forward vision and strategy was successful and Betancourt was elected president by his own people upon returning to Venezuela. He had been determined to expose to the world the political problems and dictatorships that plagued the country through most of its modern history – a risky proposition.\n\n\"Betancourt's third, and longest, period of exile was a time of enormous frustration. In the prime of his life --for roughly the decade of his forties-- he was forced into relative inactivity and obscurity. He traveled extensively, living in Cuba, Costa Rica, and Puerto Rico, and remained a leader of an opposition-in-exile to the Perez Jimenez dictatorship. And of course wrote 'Venezuela: Oil and Politics'. A beach home outside of San Juan (Puerto Rico) provided a quiet refuge for this work,\" wrote Franklin Tugwell in his Introduction to the 1978 English publication of Betancourt's book.\n\n\"The preparation of this book has been as hectic as the life of the author. I wrote it first between the years 1937–39 while I was underground hiding from the police. It could not be published then because no Venezuelan publisher would dare risk printing a book written by one who was in such compromising position. The only typewritten copy was among my personal papers and it disappeared with them when a military patrol plundered the house I was living in when the constitutional government was overthrown on 24 November 1948. Thus most of the material from the first draft was lost.\n\n\"I believe that 'the dead command,' although not in the sense that reactionaries have traditionally given the phrase. When they die they give the command for an ideal of human excellence, obliging those who survive to finish their work,\" wrote Romulo Betancourt in the Prologue to the first edition of \"Venezuela: Oil and Politics\".\n\nThe book published in Mexico City by Editorial Fondo de Cultura Economica in 1956 was prohibited from circulating in Venezuela.\nEffectively censored; yet Betancourt persisted.\n\nA decade later, after Pérez Jiménez was ousted, Betancourt was elected president in the general election of 1958, becoming the first leader of the Punto Fijo Pact. Having inherited a well constructed country but with the need to give more education to its people, Betancourt nevertheless managed to return the state to fiscal solvency despite the rock-bottom petroleum prices throughout his presidency.\n\nIn 1960 two important institutions were created by Juan Pablo Pérez Alfonso, Betancourt's minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons: the Venezuelan Petroleum Corporation (Corporación Venezolana del Petróleo — CVP), conceived to oversee the national petroleum industry, and the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the international oil cartel that Venezuela established in partnership with Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and Iran. Considered a radical revolutionary idea at the time by its opponents, but essential to Venezuela's independence and fiscal solvency by a visionary nationalistic Betancourt.\n\nAt an annual oil convention in Cairo, Venezuela's envoy, fluent in Arabic, convinced oil producing Middle Eastern countries to sign a secret agreement that promoted unity and control of their own national oil resources; under the noses of the British and American corporations that dominated the oil industry globally and had funded the event. Planting the seed for OPEC that was founded in September 1960 at Baghdad, Iraq. This movement was triggered by a 1960 law instituted by American President Dwight Eisenhower that forced quotas for Venezuelan oil and favored Canada and Mexico's oil industries. Eisenhower cited national security, land access to energy supplies, at times of war. Betancourt reacted seeking an alliance with oil producing Arab nations as a pre-emptive strategy to protect the continuous autonomy and profitability of Venezuela's oil, establishing a strong link between the South American nation and the Middle East region that survives to this day.\n\nAD's land reform distributed unproductive private properties and public lands to halt the decline in agricultural production. Landowners who had their properties confiscated received generous compensation.\n\nBetancourt also faced determined opposition from extremists and rebellious army units, yet he continued to push for economic and educational reform. A fraction split from the AD and formed the Revolutionary Left Movement (MIR). When leftists were involved in unsuccessful revolts at Barcelona (\"El Barcelonazo\") in 1961 and in navy bases in 1962 (\"El Carupanazo\", Carúpano and \"El Porteñazo\", Puerto Cabello), Betancourt suspended civil liberties. Elements of the left parties then formed the Armed Forces for National Liberation (FALN), a communist guerrilla army to fight him. This drove the leftists underground, where they engaged in rural and urban guerrilla activities, including sabotaging oil pipelines, bombing a Sears Roebuck warehouse, Alfredo Di Stefano kidnapping, and bombing the United States Embassy in Caracas. FALN failed to rally the rural poor and to disrupt the December 1963 elections\n\nAfter numerous attacks, he finally arrested the MIR and Communist Party of Venezuela (PCV) members of Congress. It became clear that a leftist Fidel Castro had been arming the rebels, so Venezuela protested to the Organization of American States (OAS).\n\nBetancourt had denounced the dictatorship of Dominican Republic's Rafael Leonidas Trujillo supported by the United States government. In turn, Trujillo had developed an obsessive personal hatred of Betancourt and supported many plots by Venezuelan exiles to overthrow him. This led the Venezuelan government to take its case against Trujillo to the OAS, turning to diplomacy first over armed response to resolve the political conflict. That in turn infuriated Trujillo, who ordered his foreign agents to assassinate Betancourt in Caracas. The 24 June 1960 attempt, in which the Venezuelan president was badly burned, inflamed world public opinion against Trujillo, who was in turn assassinated by his own people in the Dominican Republic only a year later, May 30, 1961.\n\nPhotos of a wounded but still living Betancourt were distributed around the world as proof he survived the assassination attempt that killed his head of security, and severely injured the driver who later died. An incendiary car bomb that was in a parked vehicle was detonated as his presidential car drove by one of Caracas' main avenues, shocking the nation. With both burned hands wrapped in bandages, Rómulo Betancourt walked out of the hospital in front of photographers. This incident elevated him in the eyes of the public opinion, and helped to destroy one of his most ferocious Caribbean enemies at the same time.\n\nPerhaps one of the greatest of Betancourt's accomplishments, however, was the successful 1963 elections. Despite threats to disrupt the process, nearly 90 percent of the electorate participated on 1 December in what was the most honest election in Venezuela to that date. 11 March 1964 was a day of pride for the people of Venezuela as for the first time the presidential sash passed from one democratically elected chief executive to another. It should be noted prior to Betancourt changing the law, all presidents in Venezuela were elected by Congress – in typical republic model.\n\nHe was Venezuela's first democratically-elected president to serve his full term, and was succeeded by Raúl Leoni. It was Romulo Betancourt who established a democratic precedent for the nation that had been ruled by dictatorships for most of its history.\n\nIt was 'revolution' by popular vote, without historical reference until then; Betancourt created the political model that had survived in Venezuela for many years afterward.\n\nThe Venezuelan president's antipathy for nondemocratic rule was reflected in the so-called Betancourt Doctrine, which denied Venezuelan diplomatic recognition to any regime, right or left, that came to power by military force. Betancourt always defended, and represented, democratic values and principles in Latin America. This put him at odds with the military strongmen who came to dominate and define political perception of the region.\nDuring his first message to Congress as President of Venezuela, on 12 February 1959, Betancourt said:\n\n\"...Regimes disrespectful of human rights, violating their citizens´ freedom, tyrannizing them with the backing of totalitarian political police, should be submitted to a rigorous sanitary cordon and eradicated, through collective pacification, from the Inter-American juridical community\"\nIt was during the tense Cuban Missile Crisis, between the United States and Cuba, the relationship between President Kennedy and President Betancourt became closer than ever. Establishing a direct phone link between the White House and Miraflores (Presidential Palace) since the Venezuelan president had ample experience on dealing, defeating and surviving, actions of Caribbean-based pro-soviet regimes against pro-US regimes.\n\nThese conversations between both presidents were translated by Betancourt's only child, Virginia Betancourt Valverde, who served as interpreter and confidant to her father.\n\nLater president Rafael Caldera rejected the doctrine, which he thought had\nserved to isolate Venezuela in the world. A thesis that continues to be debated among academics and intellectuals who see in Betancourt not an isolationist but a courageous defender of democratic principles in the midst of adversity and ferreous enemies.\n\nIn 1964, Betancourt was awarded a lifetime seat in Venezuela's senate, due to status as a former president. His last days were dedicated to writing and to his wife Dr. Renee Hartmann. He died on 28 September 1981 in Doctors Hospital in New York City. On his death US President Ronald Reagan made the following statement:\n\nBetancourt was married to Carmen Valverde, who served as First Lady of Venezuela from 1945–1948, and 1959–1964. Virginia Betancourt Valverde was the Betancourt's only child. Divorced he married Dr. Renee Hartmann.\n\nRómulo Betancourt was a very close friend of the Governor of Puerto Rico, Luis Muñoz Marín, visiting the island often and frequently exchanging political views with him, viewing him as a political advisor on democracy. Although they disagreed on certain issues they remained faithful friends. On one occasion in 1963, he refused to attend the inauguration of Juan Bosch as president of the Dominican Republic if Bosch did not extend an invitation to Muñoz Marín, who had provided a safe haven for Bosch and various members of his political party in Puerto Rico. Betancourt attended the funeral of his friend in 1980.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31119278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31119278", "title": "Samir Radwan", "text": "Samir Radwan\n\nSamir Radwan () is an Egyptian politician who served in the government of Egypt as Minister of Finance from January 2011 to July 2011. He is an economist with a liberal viewpoint, interested in employment and human development issues.\n\nRadwan received his BSc from Cairo University, moving onto the School of Oriental and African Studies for an MSc in the economics of underdeveloped countries—his thesis was on import substitution industrialization—and the University of London for a PhD on capital formation in Egyptian industry and agriculture from 1882 to 1967, marking the British occupation of Egypt and the Arabs' defeat in the Six Day War with Israel, respectively. The process, as well as facilitating epistemological growth, enabled him to empathize with such figures as Mohammed Ali, ruler of Egypt, and the nationalist industrial entrepreneur Talaat Harb.\n\nRadwan worked at the International Labour Organization (ILO), and the last position he held there was that of adviser to the director general on development policies and counsellor on Arab countries. This served the dual purpose of earning him an international professional standing while keeping him, through one project after another, in more or less direct contact with Egypt: \"I never really thought of myself as an expatriate.\" He also served as a board member of Egypt’s General Authority for Investment.\n\nOn 31 January 2011, amidst mass protests against President Hosni Mubarak, Radwan was appointed as Minister of Finance in the cabinet led by Ahmed Shafik, replacing Youssef Boutros-Ghali in the post.\n\n"}
{"id": "56874252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56874252", "title": "Susan Broun-Ramsay, Marchioness of Dalhousie", "text": "Susan Broun-Ramsay, Marchioness of Dalhousie\n\nSusan Broun-Ramsay, Marchioness of Dalhousie (13 March 1817 – 6 May 1853), formerly Lady Susan Georgiana Hay, was the wife of James Broun-Ramsay, 1st Marquess of Dalhousie.\n\nShe was the daughter of George Hay, 8th Marquess of Tweeddale, and his wife, the former Lady Susan Montagu.\n\nOn 21 January 1836 she married James Broun-Ramsay, who became Earl of Dalhousie in 1838, making her a countess. They had two children:\n\nFor a period in 1842, the then countess was a Lady of the Bedchamber to Queen Victoria, a position also held by her sister Elizabeth, whose husband was the heir to the Duke of Wellington. However, Susan was obliged to resign because of health problems.\n\nIn 1848 the earl was made Governor-General of India and Governor of Bengal, and in the following year he was elevated to the rank of marquess. He was accompanied by his wife, but her health deteriorated and in 1852 she moved to Ceylon in the hope that the climate would help. In 1853 she began the sea journey back to Britain but was taken ill and died before reaching home.\n\nIn the absence of a male heir, the marquessate lapsed after the death of James Broun-Ramsay in 1860 and the earldom passed to a nephew.\n"}
{"id": "4788315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4788315", "title": "Truman Bethurum", "text": "Truman Bethurum\n\nTruman Bethurum (August 21, 1898 – May 21, 1969) was the second of the well known 1950s \"contactees\", individuals who claimed to have spoken with people from other inhabited planets and entered or ridden in their spacecraft. His experiences led him to visit and discuss the issue with earlier contactee George Adamski.\n\nBethurum was born in Gavalin, California, and in the early 1950s worked as a mechanic on a road-building crew and as a spiritual advisor. In 1953 Bethurum first published magazine and newspaper (Redondo Beach\n\"Daily Breeze\", September 25, 1953) accounts of being contacted on eleven separate occasions by the human crew of a landed space ship, and repeatedly conversing with its voluptuous female captain, Aura Rhanes. Saucer and crew, who spoke colloquial English, came from the unknown planet Clarion (allegedly on the other side of our moon), which, from the earth, always remains out of sight. A 1954 book, \"Aboard a Flying Saucer\", gave many details of Bethurum's suffering at the hands of skeptics and a great deal of information about Clarion and its people.\n\nMost contactees of this period became (or already were) leaders in new paradigm movements to inform people of extraterrestrial intelligent life, including George Adamski, George Van Tassel, Daniel Fry, George King and many others. Mr Bethurum made it known that the space people had asked him to consider creating a place of learning for those who were interested in considering the possibility of extraterrestrial intelligent life, with Mr Bethurum as facilitator. The \"Sanctuary of Thought\", a philosophical group, was subsequently created near Prescott, Arizona. Mr Bethurum claimed to possess physical evidence such as unique items given to him by Captain Aura Rhanes. \n\nSome of Bethurum's later books include \"The Voice of the Planet Clarion\" (1957), \"Facing Reality\" (1958), and \"The People of the Planet Clarion\" (1970), published after his death in Landers, California in 1969. The first 44 pages of the final book are an autobiography of Bethurum covering his life up to 1953. Columba Krebs wrote the afterword. \n\nMr Bethurum himself jokingly remarked in his many public lectures that his second wife had divorced him in 1955 mainly due to jealousy of Captain Rhanes. He later married a third time, with the wedding taking place at one of Mr George Van Tassel's popular yearly \"Giant Rock Spacecraft Conventions\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12608136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12608136", "title": "V-J Day in Times Square", "text": "V-J Day in Times Square\n\nV-J Day in Times Square (also V-Day and The Kiss) is a photograph by Alfred Eisenstaedt that portrays a U.S. Navy sailor grabbing and kissing a stranger—a woman in a white dress—on Victory over Japan Day (\"V-J Day\") in New York City's Times Square on August 14, 1945. The photograph was published a week later in \"Life\" magazine, among many photographs of celebrations around the United States that were presented in a twelve-page section titled \"Victory Celebrations\". A two-page spread faces three other kissing poses among celebrators in Washington, D.C.; Kansas City; and Miami opposite Eisenstaedt's, which was given a full-page display. Kissing was a favorite pose encouraged by media photographers of service personnel during the war, but Eisenstaedt was photographing a spontaneous event that occurred in Times Square soon before the announcement of the end of the war with Japan was made by U.S. President Harry S. Truman at seven o'clock.\n\nBecause he was photographing rapidly changing events during the celebrations, Eisenstaedt did not have an opportunity to get the names and details. The photograph does not clearly show the face of either person involved, and numerous people have claimed to be the subjects. The photograph was shot just south of 45th Street looking north from a location where Broadway and Seventh Avenue converge.\n\nThe photograph was taken at 5:51 p.m. ET, according to Donald W. Olson and his team. It was taken with a Leica IIIa.\n\nIn two different books he wrote, Alfred Eisenstaedt gave two slightly different accounts of taking the photograph and of its nature.\n\nFrom \"Eisenstaedt on Eisenstaedt\":\n\nFrom \"The Eye of Eisenstaedt\":\n\nIt became a cultural icon overnight and by establishing his copyright, Eisenstaedt carefully controlled the rights to it, only allowing a limited number of reproductions which determined how it could be used.\n\nU.S. Navy photo journalist Victor Jorgensen captured another view of the same scene, which was published in \"The New York Times\" the following day. Jorgensen titled his photograph \"Kissing the War Goodbye\". It shows less of Times Square in the background, lacking the characteristic view of the complex intersection so that the location needs to be identified, it is dark and shows few details of the main subjects, and it does not show the lower legs and feet of the subjects.\n\nUnlike the Eisenstaedt photograph, which is protected by copyright, this Navy photograph is in the public domain as it was produced by a federal government employee on official duty. While the angle of the photograph may be less interesting than that of Eisenstaedt's photo, it clearly shows the actual location of the iconic kiss occurring in the front of the Chemical Bank and Trust building, with the Walgreens pharmacy signage on the building façade visible in the background.\n\nThe surprised woman on the left in Jorgensen's photograph has been positively identified as Kay Hughes Dorius of Utah.\n\nLawrence Verria and George Galdorisi, authors of \"The Kissing Sailor\", a 2012 book about the identity of the couple, used interviews of claimants, expert photo analysis, identifying people in the background and consultations with forensic anthropologists and facial recognition specialists. They concluded that the woman was Greta Zimmer Friedman and that she was wearing her dental hygienist uniform in the photograph.\n\n\"It wasn't my choice to be kissed,\" Friedman stated in a 2005 interview with the Library of Congress. \"The guy just came over and grabbed!\" she said, adding, \"That man was very strong. I wasn't kissing him. He was kissing me.\" \"I did not see him approaching, and before I know it I was in this tight grip,\" Friedman told CBS News in 2012.\nFriedman died at age 92 on September 8, 2016, in Richmond, Virginia, due to age related health complications.\n\nEdith Shain wrote to Eisenstaedt in 1980 claiming to be the woman in the picture. In August 1945, Shain was working at Doctor's Hospital in Manhattan, New York City as a nurse when she and a friend heard on the radio that World War II had ended. They went to Times Square where all the celebrating was and as soon as she arrived on the street from the subway, the sailor grabbed her in an embrace and kissed her. She related that at the time she thought she might as well let him kiss her since he fought for her in the war. Shain did not claim that she was the woman in the white dress until many years later when she wrote to Eisenstaedt. He notified the magazine that he had received her letter claiming to be the subject.\n\nOn June 20, 2010, Shain died at age 91 of liver cancer. Verria and Galdorisi's 2012 book stated that Shain could not have been the woman because her height of just was insufficient in comparison with the height of any of the men claiming to be the sailor.\n\nNumerous men have claimed to be the sailor, including Donald Bonsack, John Edmonson, Wallace C. Fowler, Clarence \"Bud\" Harding, Walker Irving, James Kearney, Marvin Kingsburg, Arthur Leask, George Mendonça, Jack Russell, and Bill Swicegood.\n\nGeorge Mendonsa of Newport, Rhode Island, on leave from the , was watching a movie with his future wife, Rita, at Radio City Music Hall when the doors opened and people started screaming the war was over. George and Rita joined the partying on the street, but when they could not get into the packed bars decided to walk down the street. It was then that George saw a woman in a white dress walk by and took her into his arms and kissed her, \"I had quite a few drinks that day and I considered her one of the troops—she was a nurse.\" In one of the four pictures that Eisenstaedt took, Mendonsa claims that Rita is visible in the background behind the kissing couple.\n\nIn 1987, George Mendonsa filed a lawsuit against Time Inc. in Rhode Island state court, alleging that he was the sailor in the photograph and that both \"Time\" and \"Life\" had violated his right of publicity by using the photograph without his permission. Unable to match Time Inc.'s deep pockets, Mendonsa dropped his lawsuit in 1988.\n\nMendonsa was identified by a team of volunteers from the Naval War College in August 2005 as \"the kisser\". His claim was based on matching his scars and tattoos to scars and tattoos in the photograph. They made their determination after much study including photographic analysis by the Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories (MERL) in Cambridge, Massachusetts, who were able to match scars and tattoo spotted by photograph experts, and the testimony of Richard M. Benson, a photograph analysis expert, professor of photographic studies, plus the former Dean of the School of Arts at Yale University. Benson stated that \"it is therefore my opinion, based upon a reasonable degree of certainty, that George Mendonsa is the sailor in Mr. Eisenstaedt's famous photograph.\"\n\nThe identity of the sailor as George Mendonsa has been challenged by physicists Donald W. Olson and Russell Doescher of Texas State University and Steve Kawaler of Iowa State University based on astronomical conditions recorded by the photographs of the incident. According to Mendonsa's account of the events of the day, the kiss would have occurred at approximately 2 p.m. However, Olson and Doescher argue that the positions of shadows in the photographs suggest that it was taken after 5 p.m. They further point to a clock seen in the picture, its minute hand near the 10 and its hour hand pointing virtually vertically downward, indicating a time of approximately 5:50, and to Victor Jorgensen's account of the circumstances of his own picture. They concluded that Mendonsa's version of events is untenable.\n\nCarl Muscarello is a retired police officer with the New York City Police Department, now living in Plantation, Florida. In 1995, he claimed to be the kissing sailor. He claimed that he was in Times Square on August 14, 1945, and that he kissed numerous women. A distinctive birthmark on his hand enabled his mother to identify him as the subject. Edith Shain initially said she believed Muscarello's claim to be the sailor and they even dated after their brief reunion. But in 2005, Shain was much less certain, telling the \"New York Times,\" \"I can't say he isn't. I just can't say he is. There is no way to tell.\" Muscarello has described his condition on August 14, 1945 as being quite drunk and having no clear memory of his actions in the square, stating that his mother claimed he was the man after seeing the photograph and he came to believe it.\n\nGlenn McDuffie laid claim in 2007 and was supported by Houston Police Department forensic artist Lois Gibson. Gibson's forensic analysis compared the Eisenstaedt photographs with current-day photographs of McDuffie, analyzing key facial features identical on both sets. She measured his ears, facial bones, hairline, wrist, knuckles, and hand, and compared those to enlargements of Eisenstaedt's picture.\n\nIn the August 14, 2007, issue of \"AM New York\" McDuffie said he passed five polygraph tests confirming his claim to be the man. McDuffie, a native of Kannapolis, North Carolina, who had lied about his age so he could enlist at the age of 15, went on after the war to play semi-pro baseball and work for the United States Postal Service. He says that on that day he was on the subway to Brooklyn to visit his girlfriend, Ardith Bloomfield. He came out of the subway at Times Square, where people were celebrating in the streets. Excited that his brother, who was being held by the Japanese as a prisoner of war, would be released, McDuffie began hollering and jumping up and down. A nurse saw him, and opened her arms to him. In apparent conflict with Eisenstaedt's recollections of the event, McDuffie said he ran over to her and kissed her for a long time so that Eisenstaedt could take the photograph:\n\nGibson had also analyzed photographs of other men who have claimed to be the sailor, including Muscarello and Mendonça, reporting that neither man's facial bones or other features match those of the sailor in the photograph. On August 3, 2008, Glenn McDuffie was recognized for his 81st birthday as the \"Kissing Sailor\" during the seventh-inning stretch of the Houston Astros and New York Mets game at Minute Maid Park. McDuffie died on March 14, 2014.\n\n\"Life\"s October 1980 issue did not include Muscarello or Glenn McDuffie. These claims have been made much more recently.\n\nMendonça and Friedman (both individually and together), as well as Shain, Muscarello, and McDuffie, were widely interviewed in the succeeding years by \"Life\", PBS, NBC, CBS, and others. Mendonça recognizes Friedman, to the exclusion of any other woman, as the \"nurse\" he kissed in the photographs (or, to be precise, the woman in the white uniform, as Friedman was a dental assistant—a nurse's uniform was customary in a dentist's office to be worn by female assistants and hygienists in that era).\nAs part of a World War II memorial at Battleship Cove in Fall River, Massachusetts, a new painting titled \"Victory Kiss\" by Jim Laurier of New Hampshire\nwas first unveiled on August 24, 2013, to honor the event captured in the photo. George Mendonça was in attendance for the unveiling.\n\nThe original interpretations of the photo centered around the jubilation of the V-J Day celebrations. Art critic Michael Kimmelman summarized the composition in 1997 as reflective of that mood: the sailor representing returning troops, the nurse to represent those who would welcome them home, and Times Square stood for home. Since then, bloggers in the 2010s have called the photo documentation of a type of normalized sexual assault. The people pictured in the photograph did not previously know one another. Drunk at the time of the photograph, the sailor is shown kissing an unwilling partner. The widely agreed upon identity of the female subject in the photo, dental assistant Greta Zimmer Friedman, had also explicitly expressed that the kiss in question was not a consensual act. Combined with the humorous expressions on the bystanders and the sailor's firm grasp of the nurse, the situation has been described as emblematic of a time when women were \"subordinated to men\", or of a rape culture.\n\nIn 2005, John Seward Johnson II displayed a bronze life-size sculpture, \"Unconditional Surrender\", at an August 14, 2005, sixtieth-anniversary reenactment at Times Square of the kiss. His statue was featured in a ceremony that included Carl Muscarello and Edith Shain, holding a copy of the famous photograph, as participants. Johnson also sculpted a version in plastic and aluminum, which has been displayed in several cities, including San Diego and Sarasota. The version was moved to New York City again on August 12, 2015, for a temporary display.\n\nIn the 2009 film \"\", two characters jump into a life-size enlargement of the photograph, finding themselves in a monochrome Times Square. One of them cuts in on the sailor for a kiss with the nurse.\n\nIn the 2009 film \"Watchmen\", during the opening credits, the Times Square V-J celebration is shown with a costumed heroine, \"Silhouette\", kissing a female nurse as a photographer captures the moment.\n\nIn the 2010 film \"Letters to Juliet\", the photograph is featured in a scene where a magazine editor questions a writer about her fact-checking regarding the image.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Bart the General\", victory celebrations following a \"war\" between two groups of children include a boy in a sailor outfit kissing Lisa as a photograph is taken. She then slaps the boy, exclaiming, \"Knock it off!\"\n\nIn 2012, while performing a show for the Marines during the New York City Fleet Week, singer Katy Perry kissed a man on stage, replicating the pose.\n\nIn the 2014 video game \"\", an alternative history version of the V-J Day kiss (V-A Day in the timeline) appears as a Nazi soldier forcing himself on the nurse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25377403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25377403", "title": "William Grose (black Seattle pioneer)", "text": "William Grose (black Seattle pioneer)\n\nWilliam Grose (sometimes spelled Gross) (1835 – July 27, 1898) was an African-American pioneer of Seattle. He was that city's second black resident, and the wealthiest nineteenth-century member of Seattle's black community. His former ranch on the outskirts of town, along East Madison Street, eventually became the center of Seattle's black middle class.\n\nGrose was born in Washington, D.C., to a free black restaurant owner. He enlisted into the US Navy at the age of 15. He left the navy to settle in California and British Columbia before arriving in Seattle in 1861, as a ship's steward, followed shortly after by his wife, Sarah, and two children. Sarah Grose and their daughter Rebecca were Seattle's first female black residents. Grose was encouraged by the then Governor Isaac Stevens to settle in Washington Territory after finding and keeping safe the governor's watch.\n\nIn 1876 Grose opened a restaurant and hotel on Yesler Way called \"Our House\", which was popular with Seattle's largely white population, and later added a barbershop. Restaurants and barber shops were two of the only occupations open to blacks in pioneer Seattle, which, though it did not have the explicitly racist laws of neighboring states like Oregon and Idaho, offered black opportunity only in limited, usually menial positions. The important lumbering, mining, and shipping industries of early Seattle and environs were closed to blacks. Seattle's first black resident, Manuel Lopes (who arrived in 1858, just seven years after the Denny Party landed on Alki), also was a cook and a barber. Grose's hotel provided lodging for many of Seattle's earliest black residents, who arrived as transient laborers in the latter part of the nineteenth century.\n\nHe was successful enough to buy, in 1882, twelve acres along East Madison Street from Henry Yesler. After Grose's hotel burned in the Great Seattle Fire in 1889, he moved his home to 2813 E Howell where he lived at the time of his death. After his death his widow, Sara, lived at 1729 24th Avenue. The house next door at 1733 24th Avenue, is often credited with being his house but it was built in 1901 after his death. He gradually sold off house lots to other successful African-Americans in Seattle's small community, and this area became the northern anchor of what eventually became Seattle's Central District. The southern anchor, Jackson Street, was poorer, more transient, and rowdier, being part of Pioneer Square.\n\nBy the 1890s, Grose was Seattle's wealthiest black resident. In 1891 Grose, along with Dr. Samuel Burdett and Conrad Rideout, formed the Cornerstone Grand Lodge of the York Masons, Seattle's first black Masonic chapter. Women relatives of the black Masons formed the Queen of Sheba Court. This lodge led annual parades down Madison Street from its inception until the 1940s.\n\nGrose was a trustee of Seattle's first African-American church, the Jones Street African Methodist Episcopal Church (now First AME Church), which was founded in 1891, by Reverend L. S. Blakeney, Seaborn J. Collins, Alfred P. Freeman, and Grose's son George H. Grose.\n\nGrose died on July 27, 1898 and is buried in Lake View Cemetery (Seattle).\n\nIn Madison Valley, there is a park named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "3924339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3924339", "title": "Zookeeper (comics)", "text": "Zookeeper (comics)\n\nZookeeper, a.k.a. Dr. Samuel Register, is a fictional character from the \"Teen Titans\" comics.\n\nZookeeper first appeared in \"Teen Titans\" #13-15 (Sep. - Nov. 2004) and was created by Geoff Johns and Tom Grummett.\n\nDr. Samuel Register worked with Mark and Marie Logan in Africa. He despised their rambunctious son Garfield who constantly caused damage in his lab. He was (and still is) obsessed with people calling him \"Dr. Register\" and nothing else.\n\nAfter Logan's parents successfully cured Garfield of Sakutia, Register went on to try to finish their work. He became mad for results and inhumanly slaughtered animals in experiments which produced grotesque mutations. This earned him the nickname \"Zookeeper\".\n\nIn the \"Beast Boys and Girls\" storyline, Register stole a sample of Sakutia to try to mutate it like Garfield's parents did. He accidentally infected himself and every kid in San Francisco where the infection turned his skin purple. When Beast Boy was infected, the virus in him was canceled out and he was cured.\n\nZookeeper injected venom from the Sydney funnel-web spider into Garfield and attempted to dissect and extract the cure to Sakutia from him. Cyborg and the other Titans kept Register busy while Raven healed Beast Boy. Wanting to stop Zookeeper desperately, Garfield reinfected himself with Sakutia. His powers back to speed, Beast Boy fought and defeated Zookeeper in a shapeshifting battle. He also found a way to cure the kids that were infected. Apparently, Register is immune to Sakutia like Beast Boy.\n\nDuring the \"Villains United Infinite Crisis Special\", Mammoth broke Zookeeper out of prison. He then joined Alexander Luthor, Jr.'s Secret Society of Super Villains.\n\nSome time later, Zookeeper was recruited by Superboy-Prime as part of a new version of the Legion of Doom.\n\nZookeeper can turn into any animal at will, just like Beast Boy. However, his side effects are different from Garfield's. His skin is purple and scaly and his eyes and hair did not change color with his skin.\n\n"}
