{"id": "227865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227865", "title": "1522 in literature", "text": "1522 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1522.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1261305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261305", "title": "Act (drama)", "text": "Act (drama)\n\nAn act is a division or unit of a theatre work, including a play, film, opera, and musical theatre. The term can either refer to a conscious division placed within a work by a playwright (usually itself made up of multiple scenes) or a unit of analysis for dividing a dramatic work into sequences. The former use of the term may or may not align with the latter. The word \"act\" can also be used for major sections of other entertainment, such as variety shows, television programs, music hall performances, and cabaret.\n\nAn act is a part of a play defined by elements such as rising action, climax and resolution.:» A scene is a part of an act defined with the changing of characters.\n\nTo be more specific, the elements that create the plot of a play or any story, and divide a play into acts include the exposition, which give information, setting up the rest of the story. Another is the inciting incident, which starts all of the action that will follow. Going along with the inciting incident, the major dramatic question is formed; this holds the rest of the play. The majority of the play is made up of complications. These are the things that change the action. These complications lead up to the crisis, this is the turning point. Most of the time, at this point, the major dramatic question has been answered. Finally, there is the resolution. This is the end of the play where everything comes together and the situation has been resolved. This leaves the audience satisfied with the play as a whole. These more specific elements of plot in a play are the main things used to divide a play up into acts and sometimes scenes.\n\nRoman theatre was the first to divide plays into a number of acts separated by intervals. Acts may be further divided into scenes; in classical theater each regrouping between entrances and exits of actors is a scene, while later use describes a change of setting.\n\nThough there are no limits to the number of acts which might exist within a dramatic work, the most common formats are the three-act and five-act structures. Both of these are derived from different interpretations of Aristotle's \"Poetics\" in which he stresses the primacy of plot over character and \"an orderly arrangement of parts\".\n\nModern plays often have only one level of structure, which can be referred to as either scenes or acts at the whim of the writer; and some writers dispense with firm divisions entirely. Successive scenes are normally separated from each other in either time or place; but the division between acts is more to do with the overall dramatic structure of the piece. The end of an act often coincides with one or more characters making an important decision, else having an important decision to make. A decision which has a profound impact on the story being told.\n\nContemporary theatre, in line with screenwriting and novel forms, tends towards a three-act structure. Many operettas and most musicals are divided into just two acts, so in practice the intermission is seen as dividing them, and the word \"act\" comes to be used for the two halves of a show whether or not the script divides it into acts.\n\nA one-act play is a short drama that consists of only one act; the phrase is not used to describe a full-length play that does not utilize act-divisions. Unlike other plays which usually are published one play per book, one-act plays are often published in anthologies or collections.\n\nIn a three-act play, each act usually has a different tone to it. The most commonly used structure is the first act having a lot of introductory elements, the second act can usually be the darkest with the antagonists having a greater encompass, while the third act is the resolution and the protagonists prevailing. There is an age-old saying that \"the second act is the best\" because it was in between a starting and ending act and thus being able to delve deeper into more of the meat of the story since it does not need to have as prominent introductory or resolutive portions. This is not always so, since a third act or even a first act can have the common second act characteristics, but that type of structure is the most used.\n\nUntil the 18th century, most plays were divided into five acts. The work of William Shakespeare, for example, generally adheres to a five act structure . This format is known as the five-act play, and was famously analyzed by Gustav Freytag in \"Die Technik des Dramas\" (Dramatic techniques). The five acts played specific functions in the overall structure of the play; but in performance there was not necessarily any clear separation between them.\n\nA similar five-part structure is also used in traditional Japanese Noh drama, particularly by Zeami Motokiyo. Zeami, in his work \"Sandō\" (The Three Paths), originally described a five-part (five \"dan\") Noh play as the ideal form. It begins slowly and auspiciously in the first part (\"jo\"), building up the drama and tension in the second, third, and fourth parts (\"ha\"), with the greatest climax in the third \"dan\", and rapidly concluding with a return to peace and auspiciousness in the fifth \"dan\" (\"kyū\").\n\nAs part of a television program, each individual act can be separated by commercials.\nIn film, a number of scenes grouped together bring to an audiovisual work to life. The three act structure is commonly referred to in film adaptation of theatrical plays.\n\n"}
{"id": "4880717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4880717", "title": "Apocrypha (fiction)", "text": "Apocrypha (fiction)\n\nIn the context of fiction, apocrypha includes stories and works set in a fictional universe that do not belong in its canon but may still have some authority within it. The boundaries between canon and apocrypha can often be blurry.\n\nApocrypha may include tie-in merchandise, such as video games, novels and comics, which is often referred to as the fictional universe's 'expanded universe'.\n\nAt times, apocryphal material may contradict the continuity that has already been established by canon. Even when no such contradictions occur, such material may sometimes be deemed apocrypha if it has been produced independently of the universe's creator. For example, Buffyverse creator Joss Whedon has little involvement with Buffyverse novels, has never closely overseen or edited one, and has never read an entire novel through.\n\nStar Trek canon consists of the Star Trek television series and movies. All other Star Trek novels and comics, whether licensed by Paramount or not, are not part of canon, but are classified as apocrypha. \n\nFan fiction is referred to as fanon.\n\nThe word derives the Greek word ', which means \"opened, revealed,\" or \"uncovered\". Jerome coined the term to refer to those books of the Old Testament that were not found in the Hebrew Tanakh, and it has since been used to describe religious texts that may not belong to the canon.\n\nThe term is used in nonreligious contexts. An account or anecdote is said to be apocryphal if its authenticity or veracity is questionable.\n\n"}
{"id": "50994934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50994934", "title": "Asociación de Mujeres en las Artes Visuales (MAV)", "text": "Asociación de Mujeres en las Artes Visuales (MAV)\n\nAssociation MAV (Mujeres en las Artes Visuales) is a group of more than 500 visual arts professionals women in Spain that promotes the visibility and improvement of opportunities for women in the arts. The association was founded on May 9, 2009 at La Casa Encendida in Madrid by a group of contemporary female artists led by professor and art critic Rocio de la Villa.\n\nThe Association MAV (Mujeres en las Artes Visuales) promotes initiatives to foster the participation of women in culture and to combat discrimination in accordance with the Organic Act 1/2004 on Integral Protection Measures against Gender Violence.\n\nThrough its Observatorio, MAV analyzes and provides objective, numeric data to inform the situation of visual arts professionals in Spain.\n\nAcknowledging the low number of women in top positions in arts and culture, the MAV seeks to balance the presence of Spanish women in all sectors of contemporary art (e.g., artists, gallerists, researchers, curators, professors, art managers, museum directors) and advocate with Spanish institutions for the implementation of gender equality policies in all types of arts.\n\nThe MAV Association has established collaborations with other organizations of women in culture and contemporary art to develop initiatives towards tackling the lack of participation of women in the art system.\n\nThrough its Centre of Documentation, the MAV Association provides resources for the investigation and documentation of best labour practices, and for the creation of new projects in the field of art, gender and feminism.\n\nThe Centre of Documentation also preserves the historical memory of women's participation in the arts. It has created a chronological chart about art, woman and feminism in Spain and internationally.\n\nMujeres en las Artes Visuales improves the visibility of women in the arts and inform of their professional activities and productions on its website;\n\nSince 2012, it produce an online magazine call \"M-Arte Y cultura visual\". Through this magazine discusses issues about arts and the visual culture from a gender perspective\".\n\nOne of the most important projects that MAV has generated is the \"Women's gaze festival\" (Festival Miradas de Mujeres). Initiated in 2012, to generate exhibitions in Madrid the first year and the next year was taken place all over Spain. The Festival, among exhibitions, has brought together initiatives that make women and gender issues a source for reflection, debate and creation.\n\nBorn out of the \"Women's gaze festival\" (Festival Miradas de Mujeres), the MAV organized from March to December 2016 the Women's Views Biennial, in which multiple activities were organized in several museums, galleries and arts centres all over the world to give visibility and enhance women's presence and works in contemporary art.\n\nThe MAV´s Prizes are an annual event that celebrates the achievements, contributions and trajectory of women in the arts since 2010.\n\nMAV has over 500 female members. In the meeting in March 2017 a new director team was elected by the members. Maria Jose Magaña as president, Lola Diaz as vice-president, secretary Merce Rodriguez and treasurer Luz Bejarano. Since 2012, until March 2017 the theorist and professor Marian López Fernández-Cao presides the association. The artist Marisa González was appointed vice-president since 2010 until March 2017. In 2014, was appointed General secretary and Luz Bejarano Coca, treasurer. They are both art historians and cultural managers from the Instituto Cervantes. Other women are part of the Board of Directors.\n\nOther important women in contemporary arts and feminism are members at the advisory committee: Marian Lopez Fernandez Cao, Marisa González , , , Marina Núñez, , Rocío de la Villa, and Magda Belloti.\n\n"}
{"id": "1210977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1210977", "title": "BBC Radio nan Gàidheal", "text": "BBC Radio nan Gàidheal\n\nBBC Radio nan Gàidheal is a Scottish radio station, broadcasting in Scottish Gaelic. It is operated by the BBC as part of its portfolio of television and radio services in Scotland.\n\nThe station is available from FM transmitters throughout Scotland: its service licence states that \"BBC Radio nan Gàidheal should be available every day for general reception across Scotland on FM\"; it can also be heard on digital television platforms, DAB Digital Radio, and online.\n\nBBC Radio nan Gàidheal programmes are also broadcast (with an in-vision graphical overlay) on the Scottish Gaelic digital television channel BBC Alba during periods when the channel is not carrying television programmes.\n\nScottish Gaelic-language programming has been transmitted in Scotland since 1923, and the BBC's Gaelic-language department was established in 1935. BBC Radio Highland produced a range of Gaelic programming – – and on 5 October 1979 the Scottish Gaelic service was established in Stornoway. On 1 October 1985, these two separate services united to form . The main base for Radio nan Gaidheal is on Seaforth Road in Stornoway, having moved in June 2014 from the Church Street studios.\n\nRadio nan Gàidheal broadcasts for over 90 hours every week, and joins BBC Radio Scotland's medium-wave feed when they close transmission. now frequently broadcasts important Scottish football matches providing Gaelic commentary.\n\nRadio nan Gàidheal shows are available for 30 days after most recent broadcast on BBC iPlayer and on the BBC's website.\n\nPodcasts of some shows are available from the BBC website and on iTunes for some time after transmission. These include two programmes aimed at learners of the language, entitled \"Letter to Gaelic Learners\" and \"The Little Letter\", the latter being a more basic version of the former. Both letters are also available at learngaelic.net, with transcripts.\n\nThe service budget for 2009 was £3.9m with a change of any more than 10% requiring approval of the BBC Trust. The service budget in 2011 was almost the same as 2009 at £3.8m and requires the same controls as previous licences. This funding comes from the BBC Trust, the governing body of the BBC which is operationally independent of management and external bodies. As is the same with all BBC Radio and TV stations, the channel is funded by the licence fees gathered.\n\nThe news () is broadcast in three-minute bulletins five times a day during the week and three times a day on a Saturday.\n\nShows containing other local and national news include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10049011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10049011", "title": "Banco del Libro", "text": "Banco del Libro\n\nBanco del Libro is a non-profit organization for the promotion of children's literature, with headquarters in Caracas, Venezuela. It was established in 1960 as a centre for the exchange of textbooks – hence the name Banco del Libro (Book Bank). As it has grown it has diversified to promote reading in Venezuela, in every conceivable arena and genre of children’s literature.\n\nIn 2007 Banco del Libro won the biggest prize in children's literature, the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award from the Swedish Arts Council, recognising its \"long-term sustainable work\" as a promoter of reading. It is one of two institutions to win the award (2003 to 2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "4283401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4283401", "title": "Baron and feme", "text": "Baron and feme\n\nIn English law, baron and feme is a phrase used for husband and wife, in relation to each other, who were accounted as one person by coverture. Hence, by the old law of evidence, the one party was excluded from giving evidence for or against the other in civil questions, and a relic of this is still preserved in criminal law.\n\nIn heraldry, baron and femme are terms denoting the two halves of an heraldic escutcheon used when the coat of arms of a man and the paternal arms of his wife are impaled (or anciently dimidiated), that is borne \"per pale\" within the same escutcheon. The position of the husband's arms, on the dexter side (to viewer's \"left\"), the position of honour, is referred to as baron whilst the paternal arms of the wife are shown in sinister, referred to as femme. The resultant shield is used by the husband, as in general females are not entitled to display heraldry, unless \"suo jure\" peeresses. This is the normal way of displaying the arms of a married man. Impalement is not used when the wife is an heraldic heiress, in which case her paternal arms are displayed on an inescutcheon of pretence within her husbands' arms, denoting that the husband is a pretender to the paternal arms of his wife, and that they will be quartered by the couple's issue and later descendants. Where arms are impaled for reasons other than \"conjugal\" marriage, for example the \"spiritual\" marriage of a bishop to his see or the \"mystical\" marriage of King Richard II to Saint Edward the Confessor, the halves of the shield are referred to as simply dexter and sinister.\n\nIn late Latin \"baro, baronis\", meant man (cf modern Spanish \"varón\" which means a male). Later, in Western Europe, the word was used to refer to a ruler's leading henchmen (e.g. a baron was the King's Man). Later, it came to have a specific, legal definition as the tenant-in-chief of the early Norman kings, which class developed into feudal barons who held their lands from the king by the feudal tenure \"per baroniam\" and were entitled to attend parliament. The Norman-French word \"feme/femme\" simply denotes \"woman\" or \"wife\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1608977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1608977", "title": "Canting arms", "text": "Canting arms\n\nCanting arms are heraldic bearings that represent the bearer's name (or, less often, some attribute or function) in a visual pun or rebus. The term was derived from the Anglo-Norman \"cant\", meaning song or singing. \n\nFrench heralds used the term \"armes parlantes\" (), as they would sound out the name of the armiger. Many armorial allusions require research for elucidation because of changes in language and dialect that have occurred over the past millennium.\n\nCanting arms – some in the form of rebuses – are quite common in German civic heraldry. They have also been increasingly used in the 20th century among the British royal family. When the visual representation is not straightforward but as complex as a rebus, this is sometimes called a \"rebus coat of arms\".\nAn in-joke among Society for Creative Anachronism heralds is the pun, \"Heralds don't pun; they cant.\"\n\nA famous example of canting arms are those of Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother (consort of King George VI of the United Kingdom). Her arms (pictured below) contain in sinister (i.e. on the bearer's left, viewer's right) the bows and blue lions that make up the arms of the Bowes and Lyon families.\n\nMunicipal coats of arms which interpret the town's name in rebus form are also called canting. Here are a few examples.\n"}
{"id": "30330896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30330896", "title": "Caroline Dries", "text": "Caroline Dries\n\nCaroline Dries is an American television writer and producer who has worked as a writer on three series for The CW; \"Smallville\", \"Melrose Place\" and served as an executive producer on \"The Vampire Diaries\". She is also known for the footage she captured of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on NYC.\n\nAt 08:46 on 9/11, Dries and her roommate Megan were sleeping in at their New York University dormitory. They were awakened when American Airlines Flight 11 hit the North Tower. Dries began videotaping the crash scene with a camcorder she got about a week prior, while other dorm members came into the room. About fifteen minutes later, while zooming in on people jumping out of the building (which she thought was debris, specifically mentioning chairs in the tape), the South Tower was hit; Megan began screaming while Dries said \"Oh my God!\" repeatedly and questioning what to do when they realized it was a deliberate attack. Due to the camera initially being on the North Tower, the actual collision was not captured by her. Horrified, Megan began packing a few belongings in an attempt to flee the scene, with Dries following. When they got out of the building, they noticed that everyone else was equally confused. With no leads and not feeling safe, they went back to their dorm and watched the scene with their friends. As they were about to drink either apple juice or vodka, Megan (while the camera was on her) looked back at the tower and screamed again; Dries turned the camera back to show the South Tower collapsing. Everyone continued to remain in the room until after the North Tower collapsed.\n\nDries' footage was used in the 2008 HBO documentary \"102 Minutes that Changed America\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1428218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1428218", "title": "Casting (performing arts)", "text": "Casting (performing arts)\n\nIn the performing arts industry such as theatre, film, or television, a casting (or casting call) is a pre-production process for selecting a certain type of actor, dancer, singer, or extra for a particular role or part in a script, screenplay, or teleplay. This process is typically utilized for a motion picture, television program, documentary, music video, play, or television advertisement, etc. This involvement in a dramatic production, advertisement, and or industrial video is intended for an audience, or studio audience.\n\nThe casting process involves a series of auditions before a casting panel, composed of individuals within a theatrical production such as theatrical producer, and theater director. However, within a given television production a casting panel can consist of a television producer, or within film production a casting panel could contain a film producer, film director, and/or choreographer. Usually, in nearly all areas of show business, a casting director is on this panel as well. In the early stages of this process performers often may present, or are presented with prepared \"audition pieces\" such as monologues, songs, choreography, scripts and or sides.\n\nThese audition pieces are usually video taped, typically in the form of screen tests and then attached with resumes, as well as head shots and or viewed online via websites such as IMDb, then shared with film producers, film directors and or studio executives. Later stages may involve groups of actors both union, (SAG-AFTRA) and non union depending on the size and scope of the production, attempting to read material from the work under consideration, paired off in various combinations of two, three or more. With each of the actor's overall motivational choices evaluated, the casting panel considers both the individual actor, and the \"chemistry\" created from either one of the combinations set forth within the read-through, such as boy meets girl, etc.\n\nWithin the production of a prestigious work under consideration for film or television, and depending on the difficulty in finding a lead or supporting actor for the role, such as with the casting of the biopic films Notorious, Straight Outta Compton and All Eyez on Me, casting calls may go out into the general public at large, this is referred to as a Cattle Call (typical for community theater), to professional and semi-professional local actors where a similar process is followed (for supporting roles in theater and film) or for specifically selected actors (for leading roles, especially in films).\n\nCasting character breakdowns, not to be confused with script breakdowns, are often provided by production agents who submit their clients to casting, which provides a brief summary of character (age, gender, race or ethnicity, situations they may be involved in). A more robust version of this painstaking task can be made through the Breakdown Services, which was founded by former actor Gary Marsh over 40 years ago. This was due to the difficult logistics issues for agents to get their actors submitted for acting roles from major film studios and casting directors.\n\nThis casting breakdown service provides a complete character breakdown of various scripts and projects from production companies for film, television, modeling, commercials etc., to only agencies and managers who meet certain criteria.\n\nThese agents and managers are positioned all over the world, and subscribe to this service that literally has an entire suite of services for just about every aspect of the breakdown, for a monthly service subscription fee. This suite includes services such as Breakdown Express, which offer representatives, casting and those who subscribe, a quicker way to post projects themselves. Another more limited version of the breakdown service, also for a monthly subscription fee is called Actors Access where acting can subscribe to what is only made available to them, more like an entry level acting position, like under-five, or a bit part, a great tool for the actor whom is without an agent or manager.\n\nAn actor may go through several casting calls before receiving a part, and even though well known actors or actresses oftentimes still go through this very necessary process, some are privileged enough to have well known writers, screenwriters and or directors /producers pitch a project for their intent to be cast in a role. The well known actor or actress oftentimes negotiates producer credit as well as very lucrative monetary compensation.\n\nIndependent casting studios like Film Independent who hosts the annual Independent Spirit Awards and the Los Angeles Film Festival are often utilized for casting calls so that auditions can take place in one location, as well as possible affiliated various locations saving valuable time, energy and money. \n\nFor some major productions, the process of selecting actors for sometimes hundreds of speaking parts and roles, may often require a specialized staff. While the last word remains with the people in charge such as the director, producer, artistic departments and overall production team, a casting director or \"CD\" (and sometimes the casting associate) is in charge of most of the daily work involved in this process during pre-production. A casting director is sometimes assisted by a casting associate; productions with large numbers of extras may have their own extras casting director as well, however in all aspects of a film or television production's budget, they are all a part of the above-the-line, answering to the director as part of his or her staff.\n\nThe \"CD\" remains as a liaison between director, actors and their agents/managers and the studio/network to get the characters in the script cast. Some casting directors build an impressive career working on numerous Hollywood productions such as Marion Dougherty, Mary Jo Slater, Mary Selway, Lynn Stalmaster, April Webster, Tammara Billik, Marci Liroff, Avy Kaufman, Mindy Marin, and Robi Reed.\n\nAt least in the early stages of casting and or extras casting such as with casting agency Central Casting, the process may be decentralized geographically, often in conjunction with actual shooting planned in different locations. Another reason may be tapping into each home market in the case of an international co-production. However, for the top parts, the choice of one or more beautiful people, whose presence is of enormous commercial importance, may rather follow strictly personal channels, e.g. direct contact with the director. During this time known as the \"attachment phase\" of a film, the casting director's job is to send out copies of the current script to agents for what is known as coverage. Coverage is when a script yet to be cast is read, summarized into a one-pager, and a brief set of character descriptions established. At this time, if an agency agrees to give coverage to a film, they will submit a list of ideas to the casting directors of actors available, capable, and in the price range of the film. Also, casting directors create their own idea lists and can \"check avails\" or call the actor representation to see if they are available and interested in taking on potential projects. If an idea that is generated from a casting director and a subsequent avail check or from an agent's recommendation is \"approved\" by the director, producers, and financiers (or studio), the casting director sends out what is called an \"Offer.\" The offer, usually contains a letter to the actor's representative explaining the role in question, a copy of the script, why the actor has been selected, the length of time commitment, the approximate start date of filming, the filming location, and the proposed salary offering. If the actor does not respond to the material or for whatever reason cannot accept the job, they respond to casting with what is called a \"pass.\" If they accept the offer, the agent engages the casting director and a deal memo is sent from casting to the representative. It is at this time when negotiations between agency and production happen to finalize any deal points before the entertainment lawyers step in and draw up the attachment contracts. If this process happens very early on in the development of a movie but the official shoot dates and details are not yet known, a Letter of Intent or \"LOI\" is drafted, to indicate, if and when the project is \"green lit\" or begins active production, the actor is already hired to portray that particular role. \n\nAfter the attachment phase is complete (which depends on many factors -- including but not limited to: financial backers, studio heads, availability of other above the line personnel), the physical auditions begin for all of the remaining roles. During this time, depending on the budget of the film, they could have what is called \"pre-screens\" where you audition only for a casting director (or associate) to see if the actor is right for the material. After pre-screens would be a \"director session\", during this time the actor comes in and auditions (usually with the same material) and now performs for the casting director and the film director. If there is a next step, it is usually a \"callback\" or producer session, where anyone who has decision making power is in the room for your audition. In television, this phase is referred to as a \"screen test\" and Network Executives would also be in attendance. Once actors are selected from the pool of available actors, the same booking process that happens in the attachment phase takes place for any actor except extras.\n\nThe resulting list of actors who were selected to play a character for a production, is called a cast list, which is incorporated into a production company's daily call sheet, and reflected in the projects title sequence especially with film and television.\n\nReaders: This person reads all other character's lines opposite the actor who is currently auditioning. A good reader is someone who has acting skills, but who has no interest in booking a role through that casting director's office at that time. A reader will know how to give and take and play with other actors without ever outshining the auditioning actors. \n\nInterns: Interns are more common to commercial casting offices which host as many as a dozen different casting directors holding different auditions per day. While some commercial casting offices hold permanent casting space, many rent out studios on a project to project basis. A key intern will work with many busy casting directors sorting mail, copying sides and transcribing them onto \"cue cards\" or large boards to be read off of as prompts in the casting room, help actors sign in, and keep the flow of actors going in and out of the casting room as smooth as possible.\n\nCasting Assistants: This is the entry level position in the field of casting. These people go above and beyond the call of duty of your typical office assistant. They do everything from covering phones, to making copies, setting up audition (aka \"session\") equipment like lights, the camera, sound equipment, etc. They sometimes can be found in the office relaying audition appointments, checking actors avails, or in the casting room making sure the recording software is running smoothly so the Casting Director can focus on each actor's performance. \n\nCasting Associates: Associates is the second chain of command in a casting office. Once a casting associate has worked for two years in the field of casting, they can apply for membership in Casting Society of America. Typically, the work under a Casting Director running pre-read sessions, prepping deal memos, and doing any calls to agents. Many associates begin to take on smaller scale projects so they can amass enough credits to move up in rank in CSA to a full-fledged Casting Director.\n\nCasting Director: Their job is to know a lot about a lot of actors, so that they can advise and present to the director the best of the existing possibilities. Casting directors are highly influential and is usually on the project because the director trusts their judgements. They are also the ones who decides who the director does see. Good casting directors \"discover\" actor by carefully setting it up so that the director and producer will feel as if they've made the discovery of the new young actor. On the occasion when the director or producer does not respond to the actor presented, they must keep in mind that they aren't directing the production, the director is the one who's going to have to work with that actor-- therefore, it is casting's responsibility to delicately balance between showcasing the actor available to them and the director and producer's sensibilities, tastes, and expectations.\n\nThe significant organization of professional screen, television, reality, and theater casting in the US is the Casting Society of America (CSA), but membership is optional. Casting directors organized in 2005 and became members of a collective bargaining unit, the Hollywood Teamsters Local 399 and New York Teamsters Local 817.\n\nThe highest honor a casting director can receive is awarded by their peers in the Casting Society of America. \"Artios\", comes from the Greek word meaning, \"perfectly fitted.\" The Artios award excellence in casting for all genres of casting except commercials. The Artios are currently held mid-January annually with ceremonies in New York, Los Angeles, and (beginning in 2018) London. Since their incarnation in 1985, they were held in November but were moved in 2013-2014 season to align with the rest of the film and television industry's awards season. The Artios is awarded to those CSA members who receive primary screen (or program) credit for casting on the winning project. Location Casting Directors, Casting Executives and Department Heads who are CSA members and who receive credit on winning projects also receive an Artios Award. CSA Associates on those projects are recognized in the press and with a certificate. \n\nThe Emmy Awards has a category for casting directors. As of 2017, Junie Lowry-Johnson has won the most casting Emmys as an individual, all in the drama category. She has six awards for her work on \"NYPD Blue\", \"Six Feet Under\", \"True Blood\" and \"Homeland\". The only shows to win casting Emmys three times were \"30 Rock\" and \"Veep\", both in the comedy category. In 2017, at the 69th Primetime Emmy Awards, the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences introduced the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Casting for a Reality Program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "573113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573113", "title": "Cressida", "text": "Cressida\n\nCressida (; also Criseida, Cresseid or Criseyde) is a character who appears in many Medieval and Renaissance retellings of the story of the Trojan War. She is a Trojan woman, the daughter of Calchas, a Greek seer. She falls in love with Troilus, the youngest son of King Priam, and pledges everlasting love, but when she is sent to the Greeks as part of a hostage exchange, she forms a liaison with the Greek warrior Diomedes. In later culture she becomes an archetype of a faithless lover.\n\nThe character's name is derived from that of Chryseis, a character who appears in the \"Iliad\" but has no connection with Troilus, Diomedes or Calchas. Indeed, the story of Troilus and Cressida does not appear in any Greek legends but was invented by the twelfth century French poet Benoît de Sainte-Maure in the \"Roman de Troie\". The woman in the love triangle is here called not Cressida but Briseida, a name derived from that of Briseis, a different character in the \"Iliad\", who again is neither related to Calchas nor involved in any love affairs with Troilus or Diomedes. Initially, after the \"Roman\" appeared, other authors who refer to the story, for example, Azalais d'Altier in her poem \"Tanz salutz e tantas amors\" and Guido delle Colonne in his \"Historia destructionis Troiae\", continue to use names derived from that of Briseis.\n\nIt is the Italian author and poet Boccaccio who makes the decisive shift in the character's name in \"Il Filostrato\". This poem is the first work dedicated to telling the story of the love triangle rather than to the larger tale of the Trojan War. Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Troilus and Criseyde\" is an expanded version of the story based on Boccaccio. Several other authors then took up the tale, including the Scottish poet Robert Henryson in his \"The Testament of Cresseid\", which 'completes' Cressida's story (left unfinished by Chaucer), and William Shakespeare in his play of the Trojan War, \"Troilus and Cressida\".\n\nCressida has most often been depicted by writers as \"false Cressida\", a paragon of female inconstancy. As soon as she has betrayed Troilus, she has fulfilled her purpose and the men who have written about her do not mention her again. Such is the case in Benoît, Guido, Boccaccio, Chaucer and Shakespeare. Chaucer's poem, however, at least portrays a more sympathetic Criseyde showing a self-conscious awareness of her literary status: \"Alas, of me until the world's end shall be wrote no good song\". Henryson's treatment is unusual in that he looks at events after the end of the traditional tale. His poem takes up the repentant Cresseid's story after she has developed leprosy and been abandoned by Diomedes. \n\nSome authors have attempted to exonerate the character by having her choose Troilus over Diomedes. Such is the case in John Dryden's rewriting of Shakespeare in an attempt at that heap of Rubbish, under which many excellent thoughts lay bury'd\". William Walton and Christopher Hassall's 1954 opera \"Troilus and Cressida\" did likewise. In both of these cases, Cressida's being true to Troilus is associated with her death as part of the concluding tragic events.\n\nOther modern fiction has introduced further departures from the traditional narrative. Christa Wolf in \"Cassandra\" provides another degraded future for the character (once more named Briseis), by including her eventual enslavement to Achilles and then Agamemnon. Jack Lindsay's novel \"Cressida's First Lover: A Tale of Ancient Greece\" explores another area untouched in standard narratives, some of her earlier life.\n\nIn Shakespeare's \"Troilus and Cressida\", we first hear of Cressida in Act 1 Scene 1. Pandarus and Troilus are discussing how the latter's unspoken love for the former's niece, Cressida, is preventing him from performing on the battlefield. She first appears in person in the following scene, speaking to her manservant before Pandarus enters. They commence into witty banter while a parade of Trojan soldiers heads past. When Troilus walks by Pandarus tries to convince Cressida of his merit, but she teases him, saying she has heard Achilles, a Grecian warrior, is far more impressive. Once Pandarus exits Cressida admits in a soliloquy that she does in fact love Troilus, but is worried about publicising it. In her own words:\n\nShe next appears in Act 3 Scene 2, when Pandarus leads her on stage wearing a veil to meet with Troilus. Pandarus then heads back \"inside\" and the two are left alone. Cressida struggles to practise her maxim as planned while Troilus professes his love for her. When Pandarus re-enters she eventually admits her own reciprocal love of Troilus. In a confused speech she battles with her own fate as a woman, even speaking in a collective woman's voice, revealing a greater intelligence than the male characters give her credit for:\n\nCressida becomes increasingly affected by her own qualities, saying 'I show more craft than love' (line 124). She begs to be allowed to leave, but Troilus and Pandarus want her to stay, so that they can marry to immediate effect. She seems to prophesise her own failings, repeating the word 'false' seven times before Pandarus 'seals' the match. In Act 4 Scene 2 we see the couple on the morning after their first night together. They are euphoric, but Cressida does not want Troilus to leave her, showing an awareness of her own vulnerability in that moment. On line 20, she says 'you men will never tarry' as he begins to contemplate leaving. Pandarus enters and cracks some jokes about how she had now lost her innocence, and Cressida is flustered. Once Troilus and Cressida are dressed, Aeneas visits in a panic to say that for the return of one of Troy's men from the Greeks, Antenor, they must trade Cressida over to Diomedes, a Greek general. Cressida becomes an object to trade, and Troilus does nothing to prevent the sad event, though he is miserable for it. In Act 4 Scene 4 Cressida is informed of the plans to trade her to the Greeks. Troilus gives her his sleeve as a love token and she gives him a glove. Their relationship becomes an inversion of Paris and Helen's. Diomedes enters and Cressida is handed over.\n\nIn the following scene we again see Cressida in a less vulnerable state. Although she is now being led through the Greek encampment by Diomedes, surrounded by men, she engages with the men, Ulysses in particular, with defensive banter. Ulysses predicts her behaviour using coarse phrases such as \"sluttish spoils\". Act 5 Scene 2 is the most poignant scene containing Cressida, and the most memorable. Troilus has crept into the camp and is accompanied by Ulysses, and they are watch the scene unfolding between Diomedes and Cressida unnoticed. Thersites is also present and unseen, the clown of dark humour making distasteful comments exaggerating the sexual inference of what he sees. Cressida flirts with Diomedes, yet is occasionally struck by guilt. She appears to lust after him, even giving him Troilus's sleeve as a love token, though quickly tries to retrieve it from him in a struggle, offering her own body in trade. Diomedes insists he will have both. He exits, having planned a return visit. Troilus is mad with jealousy and anger throughout the scene, but she never realises he is close by. Her final lines of the play are:\n\nLater, we are told of things that concern her: for example, the letter Troilus receives which he tears up, and Troilus' horse which Diomedes sends to her as a prize after knocking him out of the saddle in battle.\n\n\"Troilus and Cressida\" has little performance history prior to the 20th century. Cressida's character is as isolated from framing as the rest of the story—we never know how her life ends, there is no \"ever after\" for her, and even her beginning is mysterious to us. She appears a witty young girl, only to become a serious, thoughtful, and thought-provoking woman in moments of reflection. Carol Rutter explores the reasons why Cressida is so fascinating. She writes \"[...] the challenge Shakespeare constructs for this play is to put before us a Cressida, who, like the fair (but dark) lady of the sonnets is, in Eve Sedgwick's memorable term, 'oxymoron militant', a genuine contradiction.\"\n\nRutter has much to say on Cressida's self-awareness. Firstly, that Cressida is unique, that she \"is something entirely, radically new, the woman who behaves like a man, who betrays the man,\" secondly, that, \"two voices seem to be speaking [...] Where has Cressida learnt this 'instruction'? [...] the speech is neurotic, pragmatic, anti-romantic – yet its form is a sonnet [...] it discloses strategic schizophrenia [...] by this agenda, to win at love, a woman must play false, act double. She must separate instinct from sexual performance [...]\".\n\nJuliet Stevenson commented in Rutter's book \"Clamorous Voices\" that such roles inspire an actor to \"react against the way tradition and prejudice have stigmatised them – Cressida the whore [...] every time they're judged you feel protective. Perhaps too protective. So you might end up playing a Cressida who is above reproach.\"\n\nThe main question as regards Shakespeare's Cressida is centralised around whether she is simply a \"whore\", or if she is more complex, and worth further attention due to her obvious intelligence and duality.\n\nIn \"The Myth Makers\", a 1965 storyline by Donald Cotton in the time-travel–based British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", the character Vicki (played by Maureen O'Brien), a teenaged travelling companion of the Doctor, meets Priam, King of Troy who, disliking her name, dubs her Cressida. During the course of the story, Vicki/Cressida falls in love with Priam's son Troilus, and after the fall of Troy elects to stay with Troilus and rebuild the city. The story inverts the traditional fates of Troilus and Cressida, a change made to facilitate the departure of the Vicki character (and actress O'Brien) from the series.\n\nThe named \"Cressida\" is sometimes given, as a literary allusion, as a first name to faithless characters. For example, in \"Mockingjay\", the final novel in Suzanne Collins's \"The Hunger Games\" series, the character Cressida betrays the Capitol to support the rebellion, then later double-crosses the rebellion. In the movie \"Hitch\", a flashback scene shows the character of Cressida Baylor (played by Robinne Lee) betray the fidelity of the main character Hitch (played by Will Smith), thus negatively affecting his judgement and attitude toward love and women.\n\nThe progressive rock band Cressida is named after the character.\n"}
{"id": "6981108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6981108", "title": "Design and Art Direction", "text": "Design and Art Direction\n\nDesign and Art Direction (D&AD, formerly known as British Design & Art Direction) is a British educational charity which exists to promote excellence in design and advertising.\n\n\"Widely considered one of the most prestigious and difficult-to-win awards in design and advertising, D&AD celebrates the finest creativity each year across a diverse range of disciplines.\"\n\nThe main offices are in Spitalfields in London.\n\nD&AD was founded in 1962 by a group of London-based designers and art directors including David Bailey, Terence Donovan and Alan Fletcher and Colin Forbes (who designed the original D&AD logo).\n\nA panel of 25 judged the 2500 entries to the first awards in 1963. They awarded one Black Pencil (to Geoffrey Jones Films) and 16 Yellow Pencils. In the early years, winners received an ebony pencil box designed by Marcello Minale, one of the founding partners of Minale Tattersfield, which contained a pencil with silver lettering. It was a thing of beauty but very delicate, so in 1966 Lou Klein designed the more durable Yellow Pencil. Its education programmes in their infancy, D&AD launched Graphic Workshops in association with the Royal College of Art in the mid-60s – they ran until the mid-1970s.\n\nDesigner Michael Wolff became D&AD’s first elected president in 1970. Six years later, then-President Alan Parker gave the first D&AD President’s Award for outstanding contribution to creativity to Colin Millward of Collett Dickenson Pearce.\n\nInitiated by Sir John Hegarty of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, the Student Awards were launched in 1979. Bridging the gap between college and work, the awards present students with real world briefs to tackle. D&AD’s education programmes continued to grow in 1978 when Dave Trott set up the D&AD Advertising Workshops. They aim to inspire and broaden understanding of advertising and help prepare participants for their first jobs. Alex Maranzano, Howard Milton and Brian Webb initiated the first student Design Workshops.\n\nD&AD ushered in the eighties with the first video showreel of moving image work to accompany The D&AD Annual – it would take until 1987 for the book to be produced in full colour. The Awards had already started to recognise a wider range of categories through the 60s and 70s and Photography, Retail Design (now Environmental Design), Music Videos and Product Design became part of the Awards in the 80s. The Awards also opened up to international entries for the first time in 1988.\n\nControversy surrounded a decision to hold separate advertising and design awards in 1986 and 1987; the separation, made for practical reasons based on the chosen venue, was seen by members as a split between industries. The ceremony did come back under one roof, where it has remained.\n\nD&AD moved to Graphite Square, in Vauxhall in the 1990s. These were busy times for education; the first Student Expo (now New Blood) and the University Network – D&AD's membership programme for university and college courses – launched in 1993. The first session of Xchange took place in 1996 – described as a ‘summer school’ for college lecturers; creative practitioners update participants on the latest industry trends.\n\nD&AD entered the digital age with the launch of www.dandad.org in 1996 and introduced its first digital categories to the Awards in 1997. Not only was the media landscape changing, by the end of the decade, 50% of entries to the Awards came from outside the UK.\n\nD&AD celebrated its 40th birthday in 2002 with \"Rewind\", a retrospective exhibition and book of some of the most iconic work since the 1960s at the Victoria & Albert Museum.\n\nA new benchmark was set at the turn of the century when a double Black Pencil was awarded to AMV.BBDO’s ‘Surfer’ for Guinness for its visuals. This was matched 5 years later by ‘Grrr’, Wieden + Kennedy London's work for Honda UK. In 2006 another milestone was set as leoburnett.com won the first digital Black Pencil. Developments in the industry meant that two new categories were added in 2008 – Broadcast Innovations and Mobile Marketing, that year Apple Inc. won a Black Pencil for the iMac and the first-generation iPhone.\n\nDesign Workshops were relaunched in 2006 and D&AD North, its first regional network, in Manchester the same year. The Student Awards have become an increasingly international event – entries in 2007 came from colleges in over 40 countries. Italian design group Fabrica designed The Annual outside the UK for the first time in 2007 and the showreel moved online that same year.\n\nIn 2012 D&AD moved to its current location on Hanbury Street, celebrated its 50th anniversary by honouring the most successful award-winners in its history, and launched the D&AD Foundation to nurture creative talent. Design book publisher Taschen released a limited-run book featuring 50 years of D&AD annual covers.\n\nFurther information on the history of D&AD and advertising and design can be found in \"Rewind: 40 years of Design and Advertising\" by Jeremy Myerson & Graham Vickers; Publisher: Phaidon Press; .\nNew Directions in Design and Craft\nIntroduction\nDesign began as a craft, with a central focus on creating beautiful objects to powerfully impacting the industry. Today, both design and craft have developed beyond their simple origin to the development of powerful channels through which interaction of people can occur, experiences can be emphasized, and not technology itself (Johnny, 2011). Its evolution has also made it a channel for new ways of thinking, discovering problems, and enabling the enhancement of lives of the individuals (Gero, 1996). What are the new directions for design aside from the old craft traditions?\nDesign as an evidence-based discipline\nAs a skilled process, designing is involved in the creation of useful and beautiful items. In various educational facilities across the world, a wide range of time has been used to master any skill in crafts involved in making drawings, constructions of materials, manufacture, and finishings. Moreover, in these educational facilities, very little time is spent outside these crafts and in subjects including any social, major world event or overall literature. A very small effort is spent on core STEM aspects of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics. This is strange as designs act as the connection between technology and individuals yet very little research or study of either exists (Cross, 1999). Individuals no longer display an essential understanding of the backbones of technology. With the 21st century's enhancements in how sophisticated technology used for businesses, home, and educational purposes are, designers who insist on remaining craftspeople will only have the ability to add an amount of value, but won't be able to take the lead. Design as a craft is an essential profession but contains limitations in capabilities that artists can possess. The world of technology has undergone fast-paced change supported by advancements in science and technology along with the increasing comprehension of the ways in which modern technology socially and environmentally impacts individuals. There has been a depletion in natural resources, and the environment suffers pollutions, and social unrest affects populations in every country. Educational activities involved in craft are not enough to tackle any of these challenges. \nTradition designs and crafts did not need formal designs, as the viewable outcomes acted to prove the efforts of the artist. The intuitions of the designer act as guidance for the designer and appreciations can be made through the discernment of the viewer. This is an approach that was effective concerning simple objects such as watches and furniture. However, enhancements in technology made even the simples objects more complicated. This was followed by confusion and frustration which demanded new forms of designs to deal with an increase in complexity. Hence, the design had to be based on the technical knowledge of technology while also appreciating how limited ordinary individuals were and their capability to master the devices. As individuals cannot observe the underlying operations, designers to increase the level to which a design can be understood or used.\nHence design was further developed through outer-designs which included outcomes such as ‘interaction designs,' ‘experience-based designs,' or ‘human-computer interactions.’ All of this development underwent incorporation into current design processes. As shifts in design occurred, there were also changes in its fundamental aspects. The outcome was the structuring on new types of design, with some originating from entities that were external to the design communities. Human-centered design acts as one of the most essential types of enhanced designs. It is a practice which needs an increased comprehension of people and starts with observations and a well-defined procedure to find out the genuine underlying issues and needs. These issues can then be evaluated through an evidence-based process of ideation, prototypes, and carrying out tests and till a solution is found (Yap et al., 2014). The result is increasing innovation with optimal solutions in an increasingly complex environment. \nThe human-centered design has some primary principles. One of these principles is that result is structured for increase the level of efficiency within the lives of the individuals that will utilize the design. Human-centered design also never rushes to solutions and is evidence-based. Lastly, human-centered design is action-oriented as learning is enabled by going through continual processes of creations, tests, and observations. It moves people away from the designer as the only expert and into an essential professional field where systems and methods exist for the discovery of the true needs of individuals in society. Designs used to be entirely based on opinion but are now fully based on evidence. The design society is human-centered. \nDesign-Thinking for added value\nDesigners have been talking about design-thinking, and the concept was revived as a part of the marketing slogan by the company IDEO. It is involved in the designation of the utilization of human-centered principles in the application of design to an entirely undiscovered domain. An essential contribution of the concept of design thinking to individuals who are not considered as designers is the capability to take a step back and carry out a reconceptualization of issues for the formation of new perspectives on existing issues. Designers who can be referred to as design-thinkers place their focus not on developing pretty things but on increasing the value of activities and creating effective frameworks through which major issues can be viewed (Carroll, 2015). In business, this means the replacement of the time-honored focus on issues such as profitability for the maximization of experience the individuals involved. In healthcare, the perspective has had a revolutionary effect. As the application of design thinking is on a varied range of activities starting with city structures to designing healthcare and transport systems, the contribution of traditional craft training is minimal. \nDesign education\nThe existing procedures within education are no longer profitable for future design outcomes. Making a consideration of the complicated issues of healthcare while engaging in optimization of the experiences of all the individuals that plays a part in it, the traditional design courses no longer help. The courses that would be expected to help are those in service design, but traditional service design addresses issues that are simple and not complicated system like healthcare. Around the world, crises in systems such as transportation and education are being addressed. The environment is also an essential aspect, through design for an impact of global change despite the resistance of relevant authorities and entities to make an acknowledgment of how big the issue is. Designs educators can continue with their conformance to traditionally-inclined capabilities and display pride in the results they provide as well as the fine crafts-people they have released into the world. There will always be a need for this skill set in the world, but it will act as a representation of the past. \nFor the transformation of education as a leader for future designers, educators must invest themselves in encouraging students to go on with the exploration and learning more of technology, social sciences, political and environmental issues. For the next couple of years, there will be transformations in design to a field that aims to promote new modes of thinking, human-centered approaches to the solutions of complicated challenges, and approaches to shift from the tyranny of technology to empower individuals (Weimer, 1993). Human-centered design is based off the needs of individuals first when addressing main issues in the society. Modern design is different from a large number of discipline lines in academia by being a field of creators instead of analysts. Each designer is a practitioner. This makes design special within educational facilities, as it constructs upon the data of all the specialization units in the university to result in constructing, developing, building and shaping the world. It enables the combination of technology with human activities. It is the way in which knowledge can be practically applied. \nConclusion\nIn the current period, design can be presented as more than a craft with individuals who have technical training investing themselves in the production of aesthetic items. This type of design has an important role in people's lives, through the production of wonderful items that provide emotional satisfaction in the everyday activities of individuals. However, a design is much more than constructing pleasurable items, it is the base for entire educational facilities, teaching systems thinking, bridging across specialization systems, technology, and people. The future of the craft still has a large number of areas for exploration and development. All manners of increased developments will occur, some types of interactions, some completely new dimensions of experiences, and rethinking existent activities and services. \n\nReferences\nCarroll, G. R. (2015). Authenticity: Attribution, value, and meaning. Emerging Trends in the Social and Behavioral Sciences: An Interdisciplinary, Searchable, and Linkable Resource, 1-13.\nCross, N. (1999). Design research: A disciplined conversation. Design issues, 15(2), 5-10.\nGero, J. S. (1996). Creativity, emergence and evolution in design. Knowledge-Based Systems, 9(7), 435-448.\nJohnny Ragland, B. A. (2011). Craft and Design.\nWeimer, D. L. (1993). The current state of design craft: Borrowing, tinkering, and problem-solving. Public Administration Review, 110-120.\nYap, Y. L., & Yeong, W. Y. (2014). Additive manufacture of fashion and jewellery products: A mini review: This paper provides an insight into the future of 3D printing industries for fashion and jewellery products. Virtual and Physical Prototyping, 9(3), 195-201.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23201972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23201972", "title": "Destination Mecca", "text": "Destination Mecca\n\nDestination Mecca is an early book by the writer Idries Shah, who went on to produce an extensive corpus of material on Sufism that is both accessible and relevant to contemporary western readers. It was first published by Rider in 1957 (with photographs by the author), and subsequently by Octagon Press in 1969 (minus the photos). Shah had already made a name for himself as the author of two well-researched and in many ways ground-breaking books about magic. However, these scholarly works, and the vastly more influential work, \"The Sufis\", which was to follow in 1964, by their nature entailed keeping his own personality in the background. His intention in this present book appears to be to counterbalance this tendency through his skilful use of the familiar travel book format, and he steps out of the shadows as an approachable young man with a lively mind and a fine sense of humour and adventure – someone who is comfortable in his mid-twentieth century skin and equally at home in Eastern and Western contexts.\n\n\"Destination Mecca\" contains descriptions and photographs of some of Shah's travels in North Africa and the Near and Middle East, including time spent in Morocco, Egypt, Sudan, Lebanon, Jerusalem, Jordan and Saudi Arabia, where he describes pilgrimages to Mecca and Medina and being a guest of the Saudi Royal Family a few years before the death of Ibn Saud in 1953. Among the book's twenty-three pieces of reportage is also the description of a visit to a Bektashi Sufi community in Syria composed mainly of dervishes who had migrated there from Turkey when Kemal Ataturk had outlawed the practice of Sufism. Shah says that he had \"been present often enough at the gatherings of Sufis in various places, taken part in their recitations and listened to their discourses\" but that he wanted to get a clearer view of Sufi life and activities in the monasteries. He had a letter of introduction to the Sheikh of the community, and was invited to attend and participate in their activities and practices.\n\n\"The Times Literary Supplement\" review commented that \"Sayed Idries Shah has done much to explain the world of Islam to Westerners and in particular, to promote the study of Sufi philosophy among English-speaking people... Much of what he writes illuminates factors of permanent importance in the Middle East; and no one can read this book without carrying away a lasting impression of the vigour and vitality of Islamic culture, and of the many surprising manifestations of that culture in the Asian world of today.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12730907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12730907", "title": "Fair Game (memoir)", "text": "Fair Game (memoir)\n\nFair Game: My Life as a Spy, My Betrayal by the White House (New York: Simon & Schuster, 2007) is a memoir by Valerie Plame Wilson. Mrs. Wilson is the former covert CIA officer whose then-classified non-official cover (NOC) identity as \"Valerie Plame\" was leaked to the press in July 2003, after her husband, former Ambassador Joseph C. Wilson, IV, had criticized the George W. Bush administration's rationale for the Iraq War. The outing made her the center of the American political scandal known as the Plame affair. Her public outing led to her decision to resign from the CIA in December 2005, when she attempted to retire early at the age of 42. Being told that she could not collect her pension until the age of 56, she determined to write this book both as a means of telling her own story in her own words and as a means of earning income to replace her deferred retirement annuity. She encountered resistance from the CIA in the course of chronicling her work with the organization.\n\nAs Janet Maslin writes in her \"New York Times\" review on the day of publication, \"the story of how her career was derailed and her C.I.A. cover blown ... has its combative side. But the real proof of Ms. Wilson’s fighting spirit is the form in which her version of events has been brought into the light of day.\"\n\nThe phrase \"fair game\" in the title of Mrs. Wilson's memoir refers to a comment that President George W. Bush's Deputy White House Chief of Staff for Strategic Planning and Senior Advisor Karl Rove reportedly told Chris Matthews, the host of MSNBC's television show \"Hardball with Chris Matthews\": \"I just got off the phone with Karl Rove. He says, and I quote, 'Wilson's wife is fair game.'\"\n\"Fair Game\" serves as a metaphor derived from more recent contexts of her life that the author relates in this book; given the nature of covert espionage, it may suggest multiple meanings.\n\nAfter the title of Valerie Plame Wilson's book had already been widely disseminated, on August 19, 2007, on \"Meet the Press\" with David Gregory, Gregory asked Rove, who identified himself as an \"avid Republican\", among other statements pertaining to the CIA leak grand jury investigation attributed to him, whether he \"considered her fair game in this debate\" between her husband and The White House over the President's so-called \"sixteen words\". Rove responded that the phrase \"fair game\" attributed to him by Chris Matthews was Matthews' phrase not his own and that he himself did not consider Mrs. Wilson (in Gregory's phrase) \"an appropropriate target in this debate.\"\n\nIn October 2003 Evan Thomas and Michael Isikoff reported in \"Newsweek\" that \"The White House spokesman dismissed as 'ridiculous' the charge that Rove outed Plame.\" As Thomas and Isikoff note, \"It may be significant that both Rove and Libby deny leaking classified information. They may say that in talking to reporters they used her name without knowing that she was undercover.\"\n\nChris Matthews reportedly declined to discuss the telephone conversation that he had had with Rove, according to Thomas and Iskikoff in \"Newsweek\", who quote the conversation that Wilson reported having with Matthews and then add parenthetically: \"(Matthews told \"Newsweek\": 'I’m not going to talk about off-the-record conversations.')\" David Corn of \"The Nation\" notes Matthews' statement to \"Newsweek\" \"that he would not discuss off-the record conversations,\" adding, also parenthetically, that, earlier, \"he [Matthews] told me the same...\"\n\nMatthews was one of over twenty-five journalists subpoenaed by Special Counsel Patrick Fitzgerald regarding their conversations with high-level Bush administration officials pertaining to the CIA leak grand jury investigation (2003–2005), leading to the indictment and prosecution, conviction, and sentencing of Scooter Libby in \"United States v. Libby\" (2007).\n\nUltimately, whereas Fitzgerald's grand jury did not indict Rove for committing any alleged crimes, and, in October 2005, it did indict Libby not for allegedly having leaked Mrs. Wilson's identity but for allegedly having lied in his sworn testimony pertaining to the leak investigation, federal felonies for which a jury convicted and a judge sentenced him, a sentence which was commuted by Presidential proclamation. On July 19, 2007, a district court judge dismissed the Wilsons' civil lawsuit (Plame v. Cheney) which charged related offenses by the various government officials. The dismissal was on jurisdictional grounds, that the case belonged in federal court. The Wilsons appealed that decision, but on August 12, 2008, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the dismissal in a 2–1 decision. On June 21, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear the appeal.\n\nOn April 6, 2006, Matthews stated his own point of view on the CIA leak publicly in some detail in his conversation with Senator John Kerry on \"Hardball with Chris Matthews\", describing as \"high drama\" Scooter Libby's testimony that the President of the United States via the Vice President of the United States had \"ordered\" Libby to leak classified information pertaining to national security in order to bolster the case for the Iraq War after it began in March 2003.\n\nOn June 7, 2007, the day after Lewis Libby's sentencing, in a conversation with actor and political activist Ben Affleck about other matters, Chris Matthews used the phrase \"fair game\" several times, initially citing its use in a question submitted for Affleck by a viewer, whose own use of the phrase could reflect Matthews' already well-publicized reported use of it by Wilson, \"Newsweek\", and many other media sources. His later usage of the phrase \"fair game\" in talking with Affleck about other matters raises a possibility that the phrase \"fair use\" that he reportedly used in talking with Wilson about Rove's comments about \"Wilson's wife\" (as quoted in \"The Politics of Truth\" [2004, 2005] and as previously quoted in \"Newsweek\" [2003]) was his own phrase and not Rove's, as Rove later disavowed it.\n\nNevertheless, whether or not Rove originated it, the phrase still conveys metaphorically what Matthews and the Wilsons appear to think that Rove literally may have intended: to \"target\" (in Gregory's later terminology) Wilson and, collaterally, to leak the information about his wife's CIA identity in the process. The CIA leak grand jury investigation did not result in charging that anyone leaked her name intentionally while knowing that it was a classified covert identity, in part, Special Counsel Fitzgerald later argued in \"United States v. Libby\", because of Libby's obstruction of justice. The jury convicted Libby on four of the five counts in the indictment: one count of obstruction of justice; two counts of perjury; and one count of making false statements to federal investigators, he was sentenced on June 5, 2007, and President Bush commuted his 30-month prison sentence on July 2, 2007.\n\nOn July 3, 2007, the day after President Bush commuted Libby's sentence, Chris Matthews talked again with former Ambassador Wilson, who reiterated his belief that the Bush administration had inappropriately leaked his wife's then-classified covert CIA identity to retaliate against him politically, in effect targeting her. Matthews asked Wilson: \"When did you sense that the White House was trying to destroy your reputation?\" and he replied: \"Well, it was pretty clear to me shortly after I wrote my article \"What I Didn't Find in Africa\", when Mr. Novak spoke to a friend of mine on the street and said that, Wilson's a 'blank,' and his wife works for the CIA, that the nature of the smear campaign they were going to run against me was going to include the betrayal of her identity as a covert CIA officer. And that would have been around July 8 or July 9 [2003].\"\n\nThe subtitle \"My Life as a Spy, My Betrayal by the White House\" corresponds to parts of the subtitle of the 2005 paperback edition of former Ambassador Wilson's memoir \"Inside the Lies that Put the White House on Trial and Betrayed My Wife's CIA Identity: A Diplomat's Memoir\". Since her identity was leaked by Richard Armitage, then Deputy Secretary of State, the subtitles are not entirely accurate.\n\nJanet Maslin:\nAlan Cooperman:\nIn 2010, the book was adapted into a film starring Sean Penn and Naomi Watts as Plame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50463563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50463563", "title": "Footnote Dance", "text": "Footnote Dance\n\nFootnote New Zealand Dance (founded in 1985) is New Zealand's oldest contemporary dance company. Based in Wellington, it has been described as \"New Zealand’s most enduring and influential contemporary dance company.\"\n\nFootnote was founded in 1985 by Wellington ballet teacher Deirdre Tarrant with a 'dual commitment to fostering original works by local choreographers and composers, and establishing dance workshops in schools'. Tarrant had recently returned from dancing overseas; her vision was to 'establish a real community of creative dance people as well as to develop contemporary dance in New Zealand'. The company has played an important role in establishing and supporting contemporary dance in New Zealand.\n\nFootnote received government funding: in the early 1990s it shifted from project-based funding to receiving recurrent funding through Creative New Zealand.\n\nIn 2005 Footnote established its 'Forte' season, where a New Zealand dance artists working internationally was brought back to New Zealand to create a new work for the company.\n\nDancers and choreographers who have worked with Footnote include Michael Parmenter, Shona McCullagh, Raewyn Hill, Malia Johnston, Raewyn Hill and Ross McCormack. The company regularly tours in New Zealand, and has performed in Shanghai, Berlin, Brussels, Antwerp and London.\n\nIn 2015 the company marked its 30th anniversary with \"30 Forward\", a programme of works commissioned over the past ten years from the Forte seasons and a new work by Malia Johnston, \"Flip Pivot Boom\".\n\nIn 2012 Tarrant stepped down as director and joined the company's arts advisory panel. Tarrant was succeeded by Malia Johnston. The current company General Manager is Richard Aindow. \n\nThe company is headquartered on Wellington's Cuba Street. The company is funded through Creative New Zealand, Wellington City Council, Wellington Community Trust, The Lion Foundation, and individual and family donors.\n\n"}
{"id": "30718783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30718783", "title": "Gangster Stories", "text": "Gangster Stories\n\nGangster Stories was a controversial pulp magazine of the early 1930s. It featured hardboiled crime fiction that glorified the gun-toting gangsters of the Prohibition era. It was published by Harold Hersey, as part of his Good Story Magazine Company pulp chain. The inaugural issue was dated November 1929; the final issue was dated November 1932. When Hersey sold his assets to another company, \"Gangster Stories\" was continued under the title \"Greater Gangster Stories\", under which it lasted through the May 1934 issue.\n\n\"Gangster Stories\" (and its companion, \"Racketeer Stories\") quickly came under censorship pressure in New York state, instigated by John S. Sumner of the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice, a state entity empowered to recommend obscenity cases to prosecutorial authorities. Hersey was forced to agree to abide by certain rules, e.g. not letting gangsters triumph over lawmen.\n\nThe fiction in \"Gangster Stories\" (and \"Racketeer Stories\") constitutes a unique genre. Though properly categorized as crime fiction, the emphasis was on action and gunplay. The stories only tangentially resemble the traditional detective story or mystery. A typical \"Gangster Stories\" epic featured rival mobs shooting it out in the streets with Tommy guns.\n\nPerhaps the most popular author in the magazine was Anatole Feldman, with his stories of the Chicago mobster Big Nose Serrano. Playwright Feldman initially based Serrano on the character of Cyrano de Bergerac. The first Big Nose story, \"Serrano of the Stockyards\" (\"Gangster Stories\", May 1930), roughly followed the plot and characters of the famous play. Thereafter, Serrano evolved into an unlikely crusader against the social ills of the Depression.\n\nAnother popular author was former newspaper reporter Margie Harris, a clever writer with an ear for the distinctive vernacular of the mobs. Other authors include Arthur J. Burks, former Sing Sing convict Henry Leverage, C. B. Yorke, Walt S. Dinghall, George Bruce, Richard Credicott, and D .B. McCandless.\n"}
{"id": "20938438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20938438", "title": "Herman Klein", "text": "Herman Klein\n\nHerman Klein (born Hermann Klein; 23 July 1856 – 10 March 1934) was an English music critic, author and teacher of singing. Klein's famous brothers included Charles and Manuel Klein. His second wife was the writer Kathleen Clarice Louise Cornwell, and one of their children was the writer Denise Robins.\n\nFor thirteen years, Klein was a vocal teacher at the Guildhall School of Music in London, becoming a lifelong proponent of the methods of Manuel Garcia and helping to edit Garcia's book on the subject. In 1876 he took up musical journalism, writing for \"The Sunday Times\" from 1881–1901, among other publications. He also contributed prolifically to \"The Musical Times\". From 1901 to 1909, Klein lived and taught singing in New York City, where he wrote for \"The New York Herald\". He was one of the first critics to take notice of the gramophone and was appointed \"musical adviser\" to Columbia Records in 1906 in New York. He returned to England in 1909.\n\nKlein wrote over half a dozen books about music and singers, as well as English translations of operas and art songs. He was a noted authority on Gilbert and Sullivan. In 1924 he began writing for \"The Gramophone\" and was in charge of operatic reviews, as well as contributing a monthly article on singing, from then until his death.\n\nKlein was born in Norwich, Norfolk, East Anglia, England the son of Hermann Klein senior and his wife Adelaide (née Soman). Apparently, the elder Klein emigrated from Riga, Latvia, then part of the Russian Empire, and home to a large community of Baltic German Jews such as the Kleins. Once in Norwich, his father became a professor of foreign languages at the King Edward VI Grammar School, and his mother taught dance. The younger Klein's five brothers were Max, a violinist, Charles, a dramatist; Manuel, a composer; Alfred, an actor; and Philip. They had a sister, Adelaide. He was the uncle of producer Philip Klein (1888–1935).\n\nAlthough his forename was frequently spelled as \"Hermann\" until World War I, he \"deprecated any foreign pronunciation of it and was proud of his British citizenship and upbringing\". The musical activities of Norwich, particularly its Festival and the Cathedral services, impressed him as a boy. He was educated in Norwich and later in London. \nKlein was married three times. His first wife was Emily May Brown, a ballerina, with whom he had a daughter, Sibyl Klein, who became an actress; they divorced. On 19 February 1890, he married a 17-year-old Australian-born heiress Kathleen Clarice Louise Cornwell, later a popular writer, at the West London Synagogue. Their children included two writers: Adrian Bernard L. Klein (1892–1969), who changed his name to Adrian Cornwell-Clyne and wrote books on photography and cinematography, and Denise Naomi Klein (1897–1985), who under her first married name, Denise Robins, became a best-selling romantic novelist and was the first president of the Romantic Novelists' Association (1960–1966). Her daughter, Patricia Robins, is also a popular romance writer under the name Claire Lorrimer. Klein and Kathleen Clarice had another son, Daryl Kleyn (b. 1894). During their marriage, Kathleen Clarice began an affair with a young man, Herbert Arthur Berkeley Dealtry (b. 1878), who was a Worcestershire Regiment officer. When Klein became aware of it, he filed a petition for divorce, which was granted in December 1901. He was still affiliated with the West London Synagogue in 1901, the year of his divorce and his departure for New York. Klein's third wife was Helene Fox, a Christian Science practitioner of Boston, Massachusetts, whom he married in 1905.\n\nKlein died in London, aged 77.\n\nFor thirteen years, Klein was a vocal teacher at the Guildhall School of Music in London and also trained many professional singers privately. He wrote songs and short works for piano. In 1874, Klein returned to Norwich temporarily to help his ailing mother. That year Manuel Garcia also moved into the same house as Klein at 1 Bentinck Street in London. Klein became his student for four years and was closely associated with him for another six years. The friendship became a transformative experience for Klein, who would recall Garcia and his singing principles in many of his writings throughout his life. He helped edit Garcia's book on his singing method, published in English in 1872 (later revised by Klein and published as \"Hints on Singing\" in 1894).\n\nIn 1876 Klein took up musical journalism. He began writing for \"The Examiner\" in 1879, and then for \"The Sunday Times\" (1881–1901), \"The Illustrated London News\", \"The Citizen\", and the \"Lady's Pictorial\". He was for many years a musical correspondent of \"The Manchester Guardian\" and \"The Scotsman\" and also contributed prolifically to \"The Musical Times\".\n\nFrom 1901 to 1909, He lived in New York City, where he wrote for \"The New York Herald\", taught singing, and was a founder and first chairman of the National Association of Teachers of Singing. He was one of the first critics to take notice of the gramophone. He was appointed \"musical adviser\" to Columbia Records in 1906 in New York and was responsible for introducing David Bispham, Anton van Rooy, Lillian Blauvelt and Ruth Vincent and others to the recording studio. Klein eventually came to hold an unfavourable view of American musical life and returned to Britain in May 1909, continuing to teach and write. He wrote over half a dozen books about music and singers, as well as English translations of operas and art songs. In 1924 he began writing for \"The Gramophone\" and was in charge of operatic reviews, as well as contributing a monthly article on singing, from then until his death.\n\nAmong his other activities, Klein listed \"Inventor of the Phono-Vocal Method of learning singing with the aid of a gramophone\" and \"Past Grand Organist of Grand Lodge of Freemasons\". He was a member of the Critics' Circle, of which he was President and also Chairman of its musical committee.\n\nIn addition to publishing several books containing his criticism or music commentary, in which he left \"vivid pictures of the great singers whose art he studied in the opera house\", Klein translated several operas, including \"Carmen\", and poems of over seventy songs by Schubert, Schumann and Brahms. He was an authority on Gilbert and Sullivan, having, as a young man, known Arthur Sullivan well and worked with him on musical committees. Klein arranged for Sullivan to provide incidental music for Henry Irving's 1889 production of \"Macbeth\". He later contributed articles on Gilbert and Sullivan to \"The Gramophone\". For \"The Musical Times\", he wrote on subjects including Music Festivals, the Royal Albert Hall, the Royal Choral Society, Camille Saint-Saëns, Richard Wagner and Nellie Melba.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31294650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31294650", "title": "Highlandtown Arts District, Baltimore, MD", "text": "Highlandtown Arts District, Baltimore, MD\n\nThe Highlandtown Arts District (a.k.a. \"ha!\" and \"Highlandtown Arts and Entertainment District\") is the largest such designated area in the state of Maryland, encompassing the southeast Baltimore neighborhoods of Highlandtown, Patterson Park and portions of the Canton and Greektown neighborhoods. In the Highlandtown Arts District, artists live and work in an area known for cultural diversity. The \"ha!\" district has extensive retail and industrial spaces, along with affordable housing, with easy access to Interstate 95, Interstate 895, Fell's Point and Downtown Baltimore.\n\nEvents held in \"ha!\" include the Great Halloween Lantern Parade, a farmer's market, the Artket festival, Salsapolkalooza, and Highlandtown Wine Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "21708086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21708086", "title": "Hrvoje's Missal", "text": "Hrvoje's Missal\n\nThe Hrvoje's Missal () is a 15th-century missal written in Glagolitic alphabet.\n\nThis liturgical book was written in Split by the resident calligrapher and glagolitic scribe Butko in 1404 for Hrvoje Vukčić Hrvatinić (Kotor around 1350–1416) who was a Ban of Croatia, Grand Duke of Bosnia and a Herzog of Split. Hrvoje Vukčić was the most prominent member of the House of Hrvatinić and the strongest of the three main large feudalists of early feudal medieval Bosnia, who in addition held lands and titles in Croatia and Hungary.\n\nThis document is both dedicated to Hrvoje Vukčić, and is of great significance to Croatian and Bosnian history. Hrvoje's Missal is kept at the Topkapı Palace Museum Manuscript Library in Istanbul). Once bound in precious covers, from 19th century Hrvoje's Missal is in leather binding. Hrvoje's Missal is considered as one of the most beautiful Croatian Glagolitic books. It contains 247 folios, which includes 96 miniatures and 380 initials and many more small initials. Some details are made of golden leaves. It is written in two columns on 488 pp (22.5x31 cm), and contains also some music notation. Some initials contain architectural elements of the Dalmatian city of Split. The particular value of the Hrvoje's Missal lies in its combination of eastern and western principles in terms of composition and contents, thus making it a truly deluxe work and securing it a place in the regional and transregional history of art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36137057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36137057", "title": "International Academy of Aquatic Art", "text": "International Academy of Aquatic Art\n\nThe International Academy of Aquatic Art (or IAAA) is a nonprofit organization for the development of swimming as a performing art. It is based in the United States.\n\nThe IAAA was founded in 1955 by former synchronized swimmers from the USA in order to develop swimming as artistic, creative and non-competitive activity. The incorporators were:\n\nThe IAAA regularly organizes festivals throughout the United States and Canada presenting different swimming performances with choreographies for soloists, duets and groups. The IAAA swimmers are called aquatic artists. The style of the performances, which are shown by women and men as well, is a mixture of synchronized swimming, water ballet, ornamental, rhythmic and scientific swimming. In most cases the swimmers use different forms of art music for the programs presented at the IAAA festivals. Bert Hubbard, one of the first male synchronized swimmers from the USA, is a board member of the IAAA and documents its history and artistic activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30979327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30979327", "title": "Jacqueline Babbin", "text": "Jacqueline Babbin\n\nJacqueline Babbin (July 26, 1926 – October 6, 2001) was an American television/theatre writer, producer, and executive.\n\nJacqueline Babbin was born on July 26, 1926 in New York City, in the borough of Manhattan. She entered high school at the age of eleven and Smith College at fifteen. She worked as an assistant to the renowned literary agent Audrey Wood in 1943, and Irene Selznick. She was briefly married to a Warner Bros. executive.\n\nBabbin began her television career in 1954 at David Susskind’s production company Talent Associates, starting out as a script editor. She formed a successful writing partnership with Audrey Gellen. The two women collaborated on several adaptations of stage plays, including \"Harvey\", \"The Browning Version\", \"Ethan Frome\", \"The Member of The Wedding\", \"Our Town\" and \"Billy Budd\".\n\nIn 1961, Susskind and Babbin produced a short-lived dramatic anthology, \"Way Out\", which was a series of macabre stories by Roald Dahl. They also continued their collaboration throughout the decade as producers on TV specials, including \"Hedda Gabler\" (with Ingrid Bergman and Michael Redgrave), and \"The Crucible\" (with George C. Scott, Colleen Dewhurst and Fritz Weaver).\n\nFrom 1979 to 1982, Babbin served as Vice President, Novels For Television and Miniseries for ABC Entertainment. In 1982, she was hired by ABC Daytime and Agnes Nixon to be the [executive producer]] of \"All My Children\". During her tenure there, she hired Elizabeth Taylor and Carol Burnett as guest stars. She left \"All My Children\" in 1986, began writing novels shortly after, and became the executive producer of \"Loving\" in 1990.\n\nSome of Babbin's pther projects included the TV series \"The Best of Everything\" (1970) and \"Beacon Hill\" (1975), the TV movies \"Sybil\" (1976), \"Brave New World\" (1980), and the first TV adaptation of \"The Glass Menagerie\" (CBS Playhouse, 1966).\n\nShe died of cancer on October 6, 2001 in Kent, Connecticut.\n\n\nShe was nominated for five Daytime Emmy Awards and a single Primetime Emmy Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "52325857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52325857", "title": "James Cameron's unrealized projects", "text": "James Cameron's unrealized projects\n\nThe following is a list of unproduced James Cameron projects in roughly chronological order. During his long career, Canadian film director James Cameron has worked on a number of projects which never progressed beyond the pre-production stage under his direction. Some of these projects fell into development hell or are officially cancelled.\n\nIn 1981, Cameron was originally hired as the special effects director for \"\" and took over the direction when the original director, Miller Drake, was fired (Cameron also re-wrote the screenplay under the pseudonym H. A. Milton). Due to budget limitations the crew was composed essentially of Italians, none of whom spoke English. Some however did have prior experience on horror/fantasy movies so they were, to some extent, able to satisfy Cameron's requirements.\n\nAfter the first week of shooting, the set harmony was disturbed by some discussions about the work between the director and the producers (the executive producer, Ovidio G. Assonitis, asked to verify the day-to-day activities, arguing with most of Cameron's choices), so while Cameron was only responsible for the shooting, most of the decisions were under Assonitis' authority. According to \"Dreaming Aloud\", a biography of Cameron by Christopher Heard, Cameron was not allowed to see his footage and was not involved in editing. He broke into the editing room in Rome and cut his own version while the film's producers were at Cannes, but was caught and Assonitis recut it again. Most of the film was reshot by Assonitis after Cameron was fired. In an interview, Cameron stated: \"I was replaced after two-and-a-half weeks by the Italian producer. He just fired me and took over, which is what he wanted to do when he hired me. It wasn't until much later that I even figured out what had happened. It was like, \"Oh, man, I thought I was doing a good job.\" But when I saw what they were cutting together, it was horrible. And then the producer wouldn't take my name off the picture because [contractually] they couldn't deliver it with an Italian name. So they left me on, no matter what I did. I had no legal power to influence him from Pomona, California, where I was sleeping on a friend's couch. I didn't even know an attorney. In actual fact, I did some directing on the film, but I don't feel it was my first movie.\n\nIn 1984, James Cameron wrote a first draft under the title \"\". (Cameron had been recommended by David Giler who did some uncredited script work on the first film.) Cameron's script had the same basic structure of the first film but had the character of Rambo's partner before later drafts were written by star Sylvester Stallone. Stallone's final draft differed radically from Cameron's initial vision.\n\nProducers considered that Rambo would have a partner in the rescue mission of POWs. The producers allegedly wanted John Travolta to play Rambo's partner, but Stallone vetoed the idea. Lee Marvin (who was considered to play Colonel Trautman in the first film) was offered the role of Marshall Murdock, but declined, leading to the role being played by Charles Napier. Stallone later recalled: \"I think that James Cameron is a brilliant talent, but I thought the politics were important, such as a right-wing stance coming from Trautman and his nemesis, Murdock, contrasted by Rambo’s obvious neutrality, which I believe is explained in Rambo’s final speech. I realize his \nspeech at the end may have caused millions of viewers to burst veins in their eyeballs by rolling them excessively, but the sentiment stated was conveyed to me by many veterans... [Also] in his original draft it took nearly 30-40 pages to have any action initiated and Rambo was partnered with a tech-y sidekick. So it was more than just politics that were put into the script. There was also a simpler story line. If James Cameron says anything more than that, then he realizes he’s now doing the backstroke badly in a pool of lies.\"\n\nAn earlier draft of the 1988 film \"Alien Nation\" was actually written by Cameron in 1987, but his name however, was not credited in the final cut of the film. Rockne S. O'Bannon received solo credit of writing the script, which deviated much from earlier drafts.\n\nAround 1989, Stan Lee and Chris Claremont entered in talks with Carolco Pictures and Lightstorm Entertainment to make a film adaptation of the \"X-Men\" comic book series, with Cameron as producer, Kathryn Bigelow as director and Gary Goldman as writer. Late actor Bob Hoskins was slated to star as Wolverine and actress Angela Bassett was attached to star as Storm. Claremont also contacted Marvel Comics editor-in-chief Jim Shooter to revive the character of Jean Grey due the character's demise in \"The Dark Phoenix Saga\" comic book storyline. However, the project entered into development hell when Lee piqued Cameron's interest on the long planned \"Spider-Man\" film and after the defunction of Carolco Pictures. The film was finally released in 2000 with Bryan Singer as director.\n\nIn May 1990, Cameron tried to buy the rights to make a film adaptation of Michael Crichton's novel \"Jurassic Park\". However, film director Steven Spielberg bought the rights by a mere few hours before Cameron could buy them. According to Cameron's words, his \"Jurassic Park\" film would have involved the presence of dinosaurs and aliens. With the years, Cameron has admitted that after he saw Spielberg's \"Jurassic Park\", he realized that he wasn't the right person to make the film. The film was finally released in 1993 and directed by Spielberg.\n\nOn the 1991 American buddy cop action crime thriller film \"Point Break\", only W. Peter Iliff is credited for the screenplay, but Cameron has said that he did a considerable amount of writing with the film's director Kathryn Bigelow for the final film. Cameron is only credited as an executive producer on the final product.\n\nIn 1991, after finishing the filming of \"\", Cameron tried to get the rights of Daniel Keyes' non-fiction novel \"The Minds of Billy Milligan\". In 1994, Keyes published a sequel novel entitled \"The Milligan Wars\", stating that he published the novel for being a tie-in with the film adaptation, entitled \"The Crowded Room\", which would be developed by Warner Bros. and with Cameron attached to direct, after buying the rights of the novel to Sandy Arcara. John Cusack was attached to play Billy Milligan and Cameron and Todd Graff wrote the screenplay. However, Cameron finally left the project for unknown reasons. As of December 2006, veteran film director Joel Schumacher was attached to direct the film. The projected release date was supposed to be in 2008, but any film based in the book wasn't released and Keyes passed away in 2014.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Cameron said many times that he was interested in directing a third \"Terminator\" film. After the defunct of Carolco Pictures in 1997, the developer of \"\", Cameron and 20th Century Fox were in talks about the production of a possible third \"Terminator\" film. However, at the end, Cameron left the production of the third film to direct \"Titanic\". Arnold Schwarzenegger originally intended to not reprise his role as The Terminator after learning that Cameron was not going to direct the film and tried to convince him to work at least as producer, but Cameron declined. The film was finally released as \"\" in 2003 and directed by Jonathan Mostow. Cameron is cowriting and coproducing his vision with the upcoming \"untitled Terminator film\", which ignores \"Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines\", \"Terminator Salvation\", and \"Terminator Genisys\", picking up after \"Terminator 2: Judgment Day\". The film is scheduled to be released by Paramount Pictures and 20th Century Fox on November 1, 2019.\n\nAfter finishing the filming of \"True Lies\", on September 1, 1993, \"Variety\" reported that Cameron had sent a screenplay (apparently written in 1991) to Carolco Pictures for the long-planned \"Spider-Man\" film, a theatrical project that had been in development since 1983. Leonardo DiCaprio was attached to play Spider-Man, Cameron's frequent collaborator Arnold Schwarzenegger was attached to play Dr. Octopus. However after problems that producer Menahem Golan had with Carolco (which ended in the bankruptcy of the latter), Cameron left the project and signed a contract with 20th Century Fox. The film was finally released in 2002 directed by Sam Raimi and written by David Koepp.\n\nIn 1994, Cameron finished the screenplay of \"Project 880\", his next planned film. The script was about a man named Josh Sully traveling to the planet Pandora and falling in love with the native alien Zuleika. In August 1996, Cameron stated that he would direct \"Project 880\" after finishing the filming of \"Titanic\", and that the film would be released in 1999. However, Cameron felt that the technology of that time it wasn't enough and realistic for the project, putting it on hold. Finally, in October 2005, 20th Century Fox greenlighted the production of the project. Jon Landau was to produce the film. However, Cameron made many changes to the \"Project 880\" script, and it was finally released in 2009 as \"Avatar\".\n\nThe filming of the 1995 film \"Strange Days\" SQUID scenes, which offer a point-of-view shot (POV), required multi-faceted cameras and considerable technical preparation. A full year was spent building a specialized camera that could reproduce the effect of looking through someone else's eyes. Bigelow revealed that it was essentially \"a stripped-down Arri that weighed much less than the smallest EYMO and yet it would take all the prime lenses.\" Cameron and cinematographer Matthew F. Leonetti helped Bigelow direct the scenes, which were choreographed weeks in advance, but remained uncredited for their directoral work. According to Cameron, \"It's a major set piece. For the jump alone, we built special cameras, special rigs. We designed transitions that would work seamlessly. It was a very technical scene that doesn't look technical.\" Cameron was only credited as a cowriter and coproducer on the final product.\n\nIn 1996, Cameron intended to direct a reboot of \"Planet of the Apes\", after the poor reception of \"Battle for the Planet of the Apes\" in 1973. In 1998, Cameron was to write and produce the movie, while Peter Hyams was to direct the film and Arnold Schwarzenegger was to star in the role of George Taylor. According to Cameron, he had great ideas for the movie, including Caesar traveling in time and discovering an ape society more technologically advanced. However, Cameron left the project after the successful reception of \"Titanic\". The reboot was finally released in 2001 and directed by Tim Burton.\n\nIn 1997, Cameron expressed his desire to direct a remake of Richard Fleischer's \"Fantastic Voyage\", but he left the project to focus on \"Project 880\". Despite this, he still planned to make a remake based on his script. In 2007, 20th Century Fox hired Roland Emmerich to direct a remake with Cameron as writer, but Emmerich rejected Cameron's script. In spring 2010, Paul Greengrass revealed his intentions to direct a remake with Cameron as producer and Shane Salerno as writer, but he was eventually replaced by Shawn Levy, who intended to shot the film in stereoscopic 3-D On January 7, 2016, it was revealed that Mexican film director Guillermo del Toro is attached to direct the film, along the announcement that David S. Goyer and Justin Rhodes will be the writers and that Cameron will produce the film with his production company Lightstorm Entertainment. \nIn August 2017, it was reported that del Toro had postponed working on the film to completely focus on his film \"The Shape of Water\".\n\nIn 1998, Cameron was looking to remake Andrei Tarkovsky's \"Solaris\". His production company Lightstorm Entertainment spent close to five years securing the rights with both the novel's author Stanisław Lem and the film's production studio Mosfilm. However, because of his many commitments in the 90s, Cameron was unable to take on directing duties. After seeing the film, Cameron stated: \"What I would've done would’ve been more like \"The Abyss\", where visual set pieces might have gotten in the way of what is a clean line as a relationship film. [Soderbergh]'s not interested in the hardware or the visual effects very much, which is good. In 2000, around the time Steven Soderbergh was working on \"Traffic\", Soderbergh pitched his ideas of a \"Solaris\" film adaptation to Cameron and Lightstorm producers Rae Sanchini and Jon Landau. Cameron was thrilled with what he heard and development began on the project. The film was released in 2002, directed and written by Soderbergh.\n\nAfter the successful reception of his \"True Lies\" film, Cameron and Arnold Schwarzenegger decided to make a sequel entitled \"True Lies 2\". Cameron planned to release it after directing \"Titanic\", with a potential release date in 2002. Schwarzenegger was attached to reprise his role as Harry Tasker/Harry Rehnquist. Also, Tom Arnold, who portrayed Albert 'Gib' Gibson in the original film, revealed at one point that the sequel's script was written. However, the production of the sequel was cancelled.\n\nIn an interview on January 23, 2002, Ridley Scott expressed interest in making a fifth installment of the \"Alien\" film franchise. He stated that the fifth film would explain the Aliens' origins and where they were discovered. \"\" screenwriter Joss Whedon previously wrote an script for the film, but Sigourney Weaver disliked it. Cameron also discussed his possible return as director for the installment, but he finally decided to only work on the project as writer and producer (due the fact that he worked on the film's story). Weaver was attached to reprise her role as Ellen Ripley. However, the project was finally shelved by 20th Century Fox (since they felt that they would ruin the franchise with a fifth film) due the production of the spin-off \"Prometheus\" and \"Alien vs. Predator\" was released in 2004 instead, as the first installment of the \"Alien vs. Predator\" spin-off franchise. Despite Sigourney Weaver's and Michael Biehn's hopes to reprise their roles and director Neil Blomkamp's hopes to direct the film, on May 1, 2017, Scott stated that \"Alien 5\", whose title would have been \"Alien: Awakening\", was officially cancelled.\n\nOn April 17, 2003, it was reported by Moviehole that Cameron had signed with 20th Century Fox to direct a film adaptation of the Yukito Kishiro's manga \"Battle Angel Alita\". On November 22, 2004, Cameron stated that the film would be released after finishing the filming of his documentary film \"Aliens of the Deep\". However, on June 16, 2005, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" reported that the production of \"Battle Angel Alita\" would be delayed since Cameron decided to first direct \"Project 880\" (which would later became \"Avatar\"). On June 29, 2006, Cameron stated that \"Battle Angel Alita\" would be the first film of a trilogy. After other delays, like Cameron's work on the first two \"Avatar\" sequels, Cameron finally left the project. However, it was finally revealed on October 14, 2015, that would be released on December 21, 2018 with Robert Rodriguez as director and Cameron as producer, along with frequent collaborator producer Jon Landau. On September 28, 2018, the film was pushed back to February 14, 2019.\n\nOn May 8, 2009, seven years after the cancellation of \"True Lies 2\", Cameron stated that although he didn't have plans to revive the \"True Lies\" sequel project, he had intentions of collaborating with Arnold Schwarzenegger again. On September 13, 2010, \"Deadline Hollywood\" reported that Cameron was considering making a TV series based on \"True Lies\", with \"Dark Angel\" producer René Echevarria as showrunner and producer. Schwarzenegger was apparently set to reprise his role as Harry Tasker after his departure from the position of Governor of California. However, the project finally ended in development hell.\n\nIn December 2009, Cameron was developing a script called \"Doomsday Protocol\" for Fox. There have been no further announcements.\n\nIn March 2008, \"Variety\" reported that Paramount Pictures was set to make another animated film with David Fincher \"spearheading the project\". Kevin Eastman, who is the current owner and publisher of \"Heavy Metal\", will direct a segment, as will Tim Miller, \"whose Blur Studio will handle the animation for what is being conceived as an R-rated, adult-themed feature\". Entertainment website IGN announced, on July 14, 2008, \"David Fincher's edgy new project has suffered a serious setback after it was dropped by Paramount, according to \"Entertainment Weekly\".\" However, \"Entertainment Weekly\" quoted Tim Miller as saying \"David really believes in the project. It's just a matter of time.\" \n\nIn September 2008, Eastman was quoted as saying \"Fincher is directing one, Guillermo del Toro wants to direct one, Zack Snyder wants to direct one, Gore Verbinski wants to direct one\". It was reported that the film had been moved to Sony division Columbia Pictures (which had released the original) and had a budget of $50 million. In June 2009, Eastman said \"I've got breaking news that Fincher and Cameron are going to be co-executive producers on the film, Cameron will direct one. Mark Osborne and Jack Black from Tenacious D were going to do a comedy segment for the film.\"\n\nHowever, production is stalled indefinitely, as no film distributor or production company has shown interest in distributing or producing the remake since Paramount Pictures decided to forgo being the film's distributor, who purportedly thought such a film was \"too risqué for mainstream audiences\". In July 2011, filmmaker Robert Rodriguez announced at the Comic-Con that he had purchased the film rights to \"Heavy Metal\" and planned to develop a new animated film at the new Quick Draw Studios. However, on March 11, 2014, with the formation of his very own television network, El Rey, Rodriguez considered switching gears and bringing it to TV.\n\nIn August 2010, Hannover House announced plans to develop a 3D animated film titled \"Terminator 3000\", with Cameron in a producing role. Pacificor responded with a cease and desist letter, declining a $20–30 million offer from Hannover for the rights to produce the film, killing the project.\n\nOn August 12, 2010, \"Entertainment Weekly\" reported that Cameron was working on a biographical film about Tsutomu Yamaguchi, a Japanese man that survived the Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. The film's title was announced as \"Last Train to Hiroshima\". Cameron met Yamaguchi just days before he died. The film will be based on the book of the same by Charles R. Pellegrino. However, the project entered into development hell after Cameron decided to first focus on the \"Avatar\" sequels.\n\nOn July 28, 2010, it was announced that Cameron would produce a film adaptation of H. P. Lovecraft's \"At the Mountains of Madness\" for Universal Pictures, with Mexican film director Guillermo del Toro as director. The movie was originally set up as a project at DreamWorks in 2004, but it was cancelled. Cameron suggested casting Tom Cruise in the lead role and releasing the film in 3-D. \n\nIn June 2010, del Toro said that the adaptation probably would not happen at all. He stated, \"It doesn't look like I can do it. It's very difficult for the studios to take the step of doing a period-set, R-rated, tentpole movie with a tough ending and no love story. Lovecraft has a readership as big as any best-seller, but it's tough to quantify because his works are in the public domain.\" Cameron and Del Toro put forward the idea to Universal, who greenlit it.\nEarlier that same year, del Toro had also asked S. T. Joshi if he wanted to be a consultant once the movie got into production.\nHowever, due to many delays, Cameron and del Toro left the project after del Toro realized that the film would have been very similar to Ridley Scott's 2012 film \"Prometheus\".\n\nOn May 5, 2012, Cameron expressed his desire to direct a prequel to his acclaimed and successful \"Avatar\" film, with Sigourney Weaver slated to reprise her role as Dr. Grace Augustine. The film was originally supposed to be shot back-to-back with the second and third installment, as the prequel was supposed to be the fourth installment in the franchise. However, on September 8, 2012, Cameron revealed that the prequel will not be shot back-to-back with the second and the third films. Also, in April 2016, it was stated by Cameron that the fourth and fifth installments are planned to be sequels like the first two, leaving the fate of the prequel project unknown.\n\nOn October 23, 2012, \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that Cameron had acquired the rights to direct a film adaptation of Taylor Stevens's novel \"The Informationist\" for 20th Century Fox. Cameron's Lightstorm Entertainment was attached to develop the film. He announced that he would direct the film after finishing his work on the first two \"Avatar\" sequels. The film's release was planned to be in 2016, but no film was made, implying that the project was likely abandoned after the announcement of two more \"Avatar\" installments.\n\nAfter Audrey Mestre accident, Francisco Ferreras wrote \"The Dive\", which became an international bestseller. In 2015, James Cameron acquired the movie rights and was producing the film. Oscar-winning actress Jennifer Lawrence, star of \"The Hunger Games\", \"Silver Linings Playbook\" and \"Joy\", had been cast to play Audrey Mestre. Francis Lawrence, director of \"The Hunger Games\", was directing. The film was being compared to Cameron’s earlier blockbuster movie, \"Titanic\", and was scheduled to be released in 2017. Since then, there has been no further anouncements.\n"}
{"id": "37896972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37896972", "title": "Kippinge Church", "text": "Kippinge Church\n\nKippinge Church () stands alone, midway between Vester Kippinge and Øster Kippinge in northwestern Falster, Denmark. It is west of Redslev wood. Thanks to three reputed miracles, the Early Gothic church attracted many pilgrims until the end of the 19th century. It is known for its rich Renaissance furnishings and its frescos from the mid-14th century.\n\nBy 1338, the villages of Vester- and Østerkippinge had grown up on either side of the parish church, which remained on an isolated site in the countryside. In the Middle Ages, the church was dedicated to the Virgin Mary. At the beginning of the 16th century, the Crown had calling rights for the appointment of clergy similar to the English \"advowson\". In 1767, it was sold into private ownership but was soon reacquired by the State until 1868, when it was sold to the citizens of the parish. It gained full independence in 1938.\n\nThe church is famous for the pilgrims it attracted over the centuries thanks to three reputed miracles. The first miracle was the bleeding Sacrament in 1492. The second was a miraculous altarpiece depicting the Virgin Mary. The church subsisted as a result of the healing properties of its holy spring.\n\nThe nave, culminating in a chancel with a three-sided end, was built of red brick on a sloping plinth in the Early Gothic style c. 1300. The north door, with its pointed arch, and the priest's door are bricked in while the somewhat modified south door is still in use. The porch and tower were added in the Late Gothic period. The west chapel, adjoining the tower, which is no doubt connected with the pilgrimages, was built slightly before the Reformation. The chancel initially had five small pointed windows which have been replaced with more recent round-arched windows. The Baroque spire was renovated in 1911. Its base takes the form of a sturdy dome with an octagonal lantern. The spire proper is tall and thin.\n\nThe church provides excellent examples of work intricately carved by Jørgen Ringnis in the Auricular style. The altarpiece (1633), with a central painting probably by Anthonius Clement, is flanked by the figures of Matthew and Mark. It also presents female figures symbolizing Faith, Hope and Charity and is decorated with angels. The pedestal has two figures of Christ, one at his christening, the other at the Last Supper. The figures of Luke and John stand on either side of the cornice.\n\nThe elaborately carved octagonal font and canopy are also by Ringnis (1635), the base bearing the figures of the four Evangelists. The double-arched panels present the Annunciation, Christ's birth, the Adoration of the Magi and the Circumcision. The canopy, shaped as an octagonal lantern with arched panels as in the base, bears male and female herms. In the centre, there is a baptismal scene with naked figures. The highly coloured and gilded finish has been restored. The lattice choir screen (1650) consists of nine panels decorated with flowers, herms and symbols of the virtues. The pedestal bears the naked figures of Adam and Eve while the upper cartouche presents Christ bearing the globe. The screen was decorated by Hans Lauridsen in 1680, who also added the six small paintings of a woman in various positions. Ringnis' pulpit (1631) is similar to that in Nakskov Church with figures of the Evangelists and of John the Baptist, Christ and Moses. The coloured decorations and paintings are probably the work of Anthonius Clement.\n\nThe church has two old crucifixes, one from the 14th century, the other from the 15th century. The old font in the west chapel is of Gotland limestone. Its base is decorated with four heads.\n\nThe frescos in the chancel vault are from c. 1300. They were rediscovered under the limewash in 1904 and restored in 1909. The well executed paintings present images principally from Genesis, Chapters 3 and 4, by artists from the Kippinge workshop. In the east panel, Christ flanked by Mary and John the Baptist and two angels can be seen. To the west are frescos of Adam and Eve and the sacrifice of Cain and Abel. The north panel shows the Fratricide and St Michael combating the dragon. The eastern side of the north vault presents the Annunciation adjacent to the Fall. \n"}
{"id": "17832313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17832313", "title": "Kossuth Prize", "text": "Kossuth Prize\n\nThe Kossuth Prize () is a state-sponsored award in Hungary, named after the Hungarian politician and revolutionary Lajos Kossuth. The Prize was established in 1948 (on occasion of the centenary of the March 15th revolution, the day on which it is still handed over every year) by the Hungarian National Assembly, to acknowledge outstanding personal and group achievements in the fields of science, culture and the arts, as well as in the building of Socialism in general.\n\nIn 1950s the award was given to Gabor Bela Fodor for his contributions in the field of Chemistry as the prize was given to selected scientists. Since 1963, the domain was restricted to culture and the arts. Today, it is regarded as the most prestigious cultural award in Hungary, and is awarded by the President.\n\nNote: This is not a complete listing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1621411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1621411", "title": "Lansdowne portrait", "text": "Lansdowne portrait\n\nThe Lansdowne portrait is an iconic life-size portrait of George Washington painted by Gilbert Stuart in 1796. It depicts a 64-year-old Washington in his last year as President of the United States. Stuart painted the Lansdowne portrait, three copies of it, and five portraits that were closely related to it. The most famous copy is the one in the East Room of the White House.\n\nTo preclude its possible sale at auction, the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. purchased the original painting in 2001, for (the amount is rumored to be,)\n$2,000,000\nThe Lansdowne portrait likely (and fancifully) depicts President Washington's December 7, 1795 annual address to the Fourth U.S. Congress. The highly-unpopular Jay Treaty, settling claims between the United States and Great Britain left over from the Revolutionary War, had been presented for approval to the U.S. Senate earlier in the year. The Senate held a special session to debate the treaty in June, at which opposition to it had been fierce. Exactly two-thirds of the 30 senators (the minimum required under the U.S. Constitution) approved the treaty in mid-August, and Washington, who strongly supported the treaty, signed it in late August. The President's annual address was on the first day of the next session of Congress. Washington acknowledged the struggle over the treaty and called for unity. The portrait's paper, pen and inkwell may allude to his signing of the treaty. There was lingering resentment in the House of Representatives, which expressed its displeasure by declining to appropriate funding for the treaty's implementation until April 1796.\n\nIn England, the Lansdowne portrait was celebrated as Washington's endorsement of the Jay Treaty:\n\nThe portrait presented by the President to the Marquis of Lansdowne is one of the finest pictures we have seen since the death of Reynolds. The dress he wears is plain black velvet; he has his sword on, upon the hilt of which one hand rests while the other is extended, as the figure is standing and addressing the Hall of Assembly. The point of time is that when he recommended inviolable union between America and Great Britain.\n\nThe December 7, 1795 address was the last that President Washington delivered to Congress \"in person\". The following year he published his Farewell Address in the newspapers, rather than delivering it to Congress.\n\nLord Lansdowne – who as British Prime Minister had secured a peaceful end to the Revolutionary War – commissioned Stuart to paint a portrait of George Washington. Stuart lived in England and Ireland for eighteen years, and Lansdowne may have placed the order for a portrait prior to the artist's return to the United States in early 1793. Stuart lived and worked in New York City for a year and a half before moving to Philadelphia in November 1794. He informed his uncle in Philadelphia of his upcoming arrival: \"The object of my journey is only to secure a picture of the President, & finish yours.\"\n\nPhiladelphia served as the temporary national capital from 1790 to 1800 – while Washington, D.C. was under construction. Stuart was introduced to the President in December 1794, at one of Mrs. Washington's Friday evening \"drawingrooms.\" But it was not until the following fall that Washington granted him a sitting. Meanwhile, Stuart gathered orders for portraits—among his papers is a document titled: \"A list of gentlemen who are to have copies of the portrait of the President of the United States.\" and dated: \"Philadelphia. April 20th, 1795.\" Lord Lansdowne's name was third on the list of thirty-two subscribers.\n\nAccording to Rembrandt Peale, President Washington granted a joint sitting to Stuart and him \"in the Autumn of 1795.\" Stuart was not wholly satisfied with the resulting \"Vaughan-style\" portrait, but still painted between twelve and sixteen copies of it. He later claimed to have destroyed his original. While visiting London a decade earlier, Senator William Bingham of Pennsylvania and his wife, Anne Willing Bingham, had sat for a family portrait by Stuart (abandoned). The artist may have approached Mrs. Bingham for assistance in getting the President to grant him another sitting:\n\nAccording to Rembrandt Peale, this was the only sitting that Washington granted for the Lansdowne portrait. It took place in Stuart's studio (and lodgings) in William Moore Smith's house, at 5th & Chestnut Streets. With severely limited time, Stuart was forced to concentrate on the President's head and face. There are multiple claims as to who posed for the body of the figure, including his landlord, Smith.\n\nThe portrait was begun by Stuart in his Philadelphia studio and completed in his Germantown studio, the second floor of a stable some 8 miles north of the city. The artist moved to Germantown in Summer 1796 to avoid distractions. The Binghams had enjoyed Lord Lansdowne's hospitality in London, and persuaded Stuart to allow them to pay for the portrait. Stuart completed the Lansdowne portrait by the fall of 1796, and Senator Bingham paid his fee of $1,000. Bingham had an ornate frame made for it, and arranged for it to shipped to England in late November. Lord Lansdowne had received the portrait by March 5, 1797, when he mentioned it in a letter. Lansdowne's letter of thanks to Mrs. Bingham survives, but is undated:\n\nA very fine portrait of the greatest man living in a magnificent frame found its way into my hall, with no one thing left for me to do regarding it, except to thank the amiable donor of it. It is universally approv'd and admir'd, and I see with satisfaction, that there is no one who does not turn away from every thing else, to pay their homage to General Washington. Among many circumstances which contribute to enhance the value of it, I shall always consider the quarter from whence it comes as most flattering, & I look forward with the greatest pleasure to the time of shewing you and Mr. Bingham where I have plac'd it.\n\nStuart's first copy of the portrait was for the Binghams (now at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts), and would have been completed before the original left his studio. The President and First Lady visited Germantown on January 7, 1797: \"Road [rode] to German Town with Mrs. Washington to see Mr. Stuarts paintings.\" The Bingham copy was still in the studio on July 27, 1797, when Robert Gilmor Jr. viewed it. The William Kerin Constable copy (now at the Brooklyn Museum) was completed that same month. The Gardiner Baker copy (now at the White House) is presumed to have been the copy commissioned by Charles Cotesworth Pinckney in September 1796, likely as a diplomatic gift to France; and resold by Stuart to Baker by December 1797.\n\nAfter the death of Lord Lansdowne, his pictures were sold by auction. The \"Washington\" was purchased by Samuel Williams, an English merchant, for $2,000. Williams subsequently became insolvent, and his creditors disposed of the \"Washington\" by a lottery. Forty tickets were sold, at fifty guineas each. The picture fell to Mr. J. Delaware Lewis, a nephew of Mr. William D. Lewis, of Philadelphia. But few Americans had ever seen the picture, and Mr. William D. Lewis, who was Chairman of the Committee on Art, obtained the loan of it from his nephew for the Centennial Exhibition. It was sent out with the loan collection from England, unpacked at Memorial Hall, and hung up in the British section before its arrival was known to the Fine Arts Committee. An effort was subsequently made to have it transferred to the American section, but it was unsuccessful. At the close of the Exhibition, it was returned to its owner in England.\n\n\nThe painting is full of symbolism, drawn from American and ancient Roman symbols of the Roman Republic. Stuart painted Washington from life, showing him standing up, dressed in a black velvet suit with an outstretched hand held up in an oratorical manner. Behind Washington is a row of two Doric columns, with another row to the left. Wrapped around and between the columns are red tasseled drapes.\n\nWashington's suit is plain and simple, and the sword he holds on his left side is a dress sword and not a battle sword (symbolizing a democratic form of government, rather than a monarchy or military dictatorship). In the sky, storm clouds appear on the left while a rainbow appears on the right, signifying the American Revolutionary War giving way to the peace and prosperity of the new United States after the 1783 Treaty of Paris. The medallion at the top of the chair shows the red, white, and blue colors of the American flag.\n\nOn and under the tablecloth-draped table to the left are two books: \"Federalist\"—probably a reference to the \"Federalist Papers\"—and \"Journal of Congress\"—the \"Congressional Record\". Another five books are under the table: the three to the right are \"General Orders\", \"American Revolution\", and \"Constitutional Bylaws\"—symbolizing Washington's leadership as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army and president of the Constitutional Convention.\n\nThe pen and paper on the table signify the rule of law. The table's leg is shaped like a fasces, an ancient Roman symbol of power and authority (\"imperium\"). On the far left of the table is a silver inkwell, emblazed with George Washington's coat of arms (see Syng inkstand). A white quill rests upon silver dogs, ancient symbols of loyalty. Behind these on the table is a large black hat.\n\nWashington's unusually clenched facial expression comes from his famous false teeth. Jean-Antoine Houdon's marble sculpture of Washington shows a more natural expression. Stuart wrote: \"When I painted him [Washington], he had just had a set of false teeth inserted, which accounts for the constrained expression so noticeable about the mouth and lower part of the face ... Houdon's bust does not suffer from this defect.\"\n\nStuart painted a 1797 seated portrait of Washington, based on the Lansdowne. William Kerin Constable, who commissioned the Lansdowne copy now at the Brooklyn Museum, also commissioned the seated version. Constable presented it to Alexander Hamilton in 1797. The portrait remained in the Hamilton family until 1896, when it was bequeathed to the Lenox Library. The Lenox Library later merged with the New York Public Library. The portrait was auctioned at Sotheby's NY, 30 November 2005, lot 3, and sold for $8,136,000. The Constable-Hamilton Portrait is now in the collection of the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art, in Bentonville, Arkansas.\n\nStuart made several changes for the Munro-Lenox portrait (1800): Washington's head is slightly turned, and his hand is on the table, rather than gesturing into the air. The President looks directly at the viewer, rather than off to the side, which makes it a more compelling image than the Lansdowne. The head appears to be based on Stuart's Athenaeum portrait (the image on the one-dollar bill). The wall behind the President is lowered, allowing for a more dramatic scene of the sun breaking through the storm clouds. After 135 years of ownership by the New York Public Library, the Munro-Lenox portrait was deassessioned and offered for auction in 2005. It failed to sell at auction, and was sold in a private sale for an undisclosed amount.\n\nStuart painted three full-size copies of the Munro-Lenox Portrait, one for the Connecticut State House in Hartford; and two for Rhode Island—one for the State House in Providence, and the other for Old Colony House in Newport.\n\nThe Lansdowne and Munro-Lenox portraits were copied many times, and reproduced in widely circulated prints. William Winstanley (1775–1806), a British painter who had sold landscapes to President Washington, reportedly painted six full-size copies of the Lansdowne. During the 19th century, Jane Stuart (the artist's daughter) painted multiple copies of the Lansdowne in full and reduced sizes. Alonzo Chappel included elements of the Lansdowne in his 1860 seated portrait of Washington (Metropolitan Museum of Art).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34442904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34442904", "title": "Lindauer and Rupert Block", "text": "Lindauer and Rupert Block\n\nThe Lindauer and Rupert Block is located in Kaukauna, Wisconsin. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1984 for its significance in commerce and architecture.\n"}
{"id": "3251497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3251497", "title": "Line art", "text": "Line art\n\nLine art or line drawing is any image that consists of distinct straight or curved lines placed against a (usually plain) background, without gradations in shade (darkness) or hue (color) to represent two-dimensional or three-dimensional objects. Line art can use lines of different colors, although line art is usually monochromatic.\nLine art emphasizes form and outline, over color, shading, and texture. However, areas of solid pigment and dots can also be used in addition to lines. The lines in a piece of line art may be all of a constant width (as in some pencil drawings), of several (few) constant widths (as in technical illustrations), or of freely varying widths (as in brush work or engraving).\n\nLine art may tend towards realism (as in much of Gustave Doré's work), or it may be a caricature, cartoon, ideograph, or glyph.\n\nBefore the development of photography and of halftones, line art was the standard format for illustrations to be used in print publications, using black ink on white paper. Using either stippling or hatching, shades of gray could also be simulated.\n\nOne of the most fundamental elements of art is the line. An important feature of a line is that it indicates the edge of a two-dimensional (flat) shape or a three-dimensional form. A shape can be indicated by means of an outline and a three-dimensional form can be indicated by contour lines.\n\n"}
{"id": "14250439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14250439", "title": "List of Mage: The Ascension books", "text": "List of Mage: The Ascension books\n\nA comprehensive list of \"\" books, published by White Wolf, Inc., including production code and ISBN.\n"}
{"id": "1416290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416290", "title": "Léon Bonnat", "text": "Léon Bonnat\n\nLéon Joseph Florentin Bonnat (20 June 1833 – 8 September 1922) was a French painter, Grand Officer of the Légion d'honneur and professor at the Ecole des Beaux Arts.\n\nBonnat was born in Bayonne, but from 1846 to 1853 he lived in Madrid, where his father owned a bookshop. While tending his father's shop, he copied engravings of works by the Old Masters, developing a passion for drawing. In Madrid he received his artistic training under Madrazo.\nHe later worked in Paris, where he became known as a leading portraitist, never without a commission. His many portraits show the influence of Velázquez, Jusepe de Ribera and other Spanish masters, as well as Titian and Van Dyke, whose works he studied in the Prado. Following the period in Spain Bonnat worked the ateliers of the history painters Paul Delaroche and Leon Cogniet (1854) in Paris. Despite repeated attempts, he failed to win the prix de Rome, finally receiving only a second prize. However, a scholarship from his native Bayonne allowed him to spend three years in Rome (1858–60) independently. During his stay in Rome, he became friends with Edgar Degas, Gustave Moreau, Jean-Jacques Henner and the sculptor Henri Chapu.\n\nBonnat won a medal of honor in Paris in 1869, going on to become one of the leading artists of his day. Bonnat went on to win the Grand Officer of the Légion d'honneur and became a professor at the Ecole des Beaux Arts in 1882. Bonnat was quite popular with American students in Paris. In addition to his native French, he spoke Spanish and Italian and knew English well, to the relief of many monolingual Americans. In May 1905 he succeeded Paul Dubois as director of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts. Julius Kaplan characterised Bonnat as \"a liberal teacher who stressed simplicity in art above high academic finish, as well as overall effect rather than detail.\" Bonnat's emphasis on overall effect on the one hand, and rigorous drawing on the other, put him in a middle position with respect to the Impressionists and academic painters like his friend Jean-Léon Gérôme. In 1917, Bonnat was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Honorary Corresponding member.\n\nBonnat's vivid portraits of contemporary celebrities are his most characteristic works, but his most important works are arguably his powerful religious paintings, such as his \"Christ on the Cross\" (now in the collection of the Musée du Petit Palais in Paris, but not currently on display), \"Job\" (in the Musée Bonnat), \"St Vincent Taking the Place of Two Galley Slaves\" (at the church of Saint-Nicholas des Champs in Paris), and the large \"Martyrdom of St Denis\" for the Pantheon in Paris. However, he received few commissions for religious and historical paintings, and most of his output consists of portraits. He also produced genre paintings of Italian peasants, and a small number of Orientalist scenes.\n\nThe writers Émile Zola and Théophile Gautier were among Bonnat's supporters. Gautier hailed him as \"the antithesis of Bouguereau,\" because of the stark naturalism and lack of surface finish that characterize Bonnat's work. Bonnat is an academic painter. He was a member of the Institute, one of the only 14 painters who had administrative power over the Academy des Beaux Arts and thereby the Ecole des Beaux Arts. He had friends and connections among the independent artists of his time as well, such as Edgar Degas, whom he met during his stay in Rome and who painted two portraits of Bonnat, and Édouard Manet, who shared his predilection for Spanish painting. He taught together with Pierre Puvis de Chavannes in the private atelier he ran before becoming professor at the École. He supported Auguste Rodin's candidacy for the Institut, and defended Gustave Courbet's submissions to the salon.\n\nIn a gesture of gratitude for the help he had been provided in his youth, Bonnat built a museum in his native city of Bayonne, the Musée Bonnat. Most of the works in the museum are from Bonnat's personal collection of works of art, amassed over a lifetime of travelling around Europe. It includes an exceptionally fine collection of Old Master drawings from Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo to Ingres and Géricault.\n\nBonnat died on 8 September 1922 at Monchy-Saint-Éloi; he never married, and lived for much of his life with his mother and sister in the Place Vintimille (renamed Place Adolphe-Max since 1940). \nSome of Bonnat's more notable students include: John Singer Sargent, Stanhope Forbes, Gustave Caillebotte, Prince Eugen, Duke of Närke, Gustaf Cederström, Laurits Tuxen, P. S. Krøyer, Suzor-Coté, Alfred Philippe Roll, Georges Braque, Thomas Eakins, Raoul Dufy, Jean Béraud, Franklin Brownell, Marius Vasselon, Hubert-Denis Etcheverry, Fred Barnard, Louis Béroud, Paul de la Boulaye, Aloysius O'Kelly, Erik Werenskiold, Edvard Munch, Alphonse Osbert, Henry Siddons Mowbray, Charles Sprague Pearce, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Hyakutake Kaneyuki, Nils Forsberg and Walter Tyndale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "187468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187468", "title": "Madras (cloth)", "text": "Madras (cloth)\n\nMadras is a lightweight cotton fabric with typically patterned texture and plaid design, used primarily for summer clothing such as pants, shorts, dresses, and jackets. The fabric takes its name from the former name of the city of Chennai in India.\n\nMadras today is available as plaid patterns in regular cotton, seersucker and as patchwork madras, meaning cutting several madras plaid fabrics into squares or rectangles and sewing them back together to form a mixed pattern of various plaids.\n\nAuthentic Madras comes from Chennai (Madras); both sides of the cloth must bear the same pattern; it must be handwoven (evidenced by the small flaws in the fabric).\nCotton madras is woven from a fragile, short-staple cotton fiber that can’t be combed, only carded, resulting in bumps known as slubs which are thick spots in the yarn that give madras its unique texture. The cotton is hand-dyed after being spun into yarn, woven and finished in some 200 small villages in the Madras area.\n\nMadras fabric is generally regarded as belonging to the peasant class in its native India. \nDutch traders arrived in India in the early 1600s to trade in the local calico cloth, followed by the British. The English East India Company sought quality textiles, finding the small fishing village of Madraspatnam (Madras), and the company established a trading post there in the mid-17th century. The first madras material was a muslin overprinted or embroidered in elaborate patterns with vegetable dyes. To secure a reliable labor supply, the English East India Company promised a 30-year exemption from duties for Indian weavers in the area, and thus within a year nearly 400 families of weavers had settled in Madras. Undyed madras cloth became popular in Europe because it was lightweight and breathable. Cotton plaid madras reached America in 1718 as a donation to the Collegiate School of Connecticut (now known as Yale University). Sears offered the first madras shirt for sale to the American consumer in its 1897 catalog.\nThe name \"madras\" was attributed to shirt maker David J. Anderson in 1844, although the material had been referred to as such much earlier. In 1958 William Jacobson, a leading textile importer, traveled to Bombay to trade with Captain C.P. Krishnan, exporter of madras from Chennai (formerly Madras). The two men struck a dollar-a-yard deal for madras material possessing a \"strong smell of vegetable dyes and sesame oils,\" woven of bright colors and originally bound for South Africa. Krishnan warned Jacobson that the fabric should be washed gently in cold water to avoid bleeding, advice that never reached the Brooks Brothers buyers to whom Jacobson sold 10,000 yards for the manufacture of madras clothing. Brooks Brothers then sold cotton madras garments to consumers without proper washing instructions, resulting in the bright madras dyes bleeding in the wash and the garments emerged discolored and faded. To counter dissatisfied customers, Madison Avenue advertising giant David Ogilvy coined the phrase \"guaranteed to bleed\" and used this as a selling point rather than a defect. A 1966 catalog advertisement stated:\nAuthentic Indian Madras is completely handwoven from yarns dyed with native vegetable colorings. Home-spun by native weavers, no two plaids are exactly the same. When washed with mild soap in warm water, they are guaranteed to bleed and blend together into distinctively muted and subdued colorings.\n\nIn the United States, the plaid cotton madras shirt became popular in the 1960s among the post-World War II generation of preppy baby boomers. As early as the 1930s, cotton madras clothing was emerging as a status symbol in the US because only American tourists who could afford expensive Caribbean vacations during the Great Depression had access and thus the madras shirt was a signal of affluence.\n\n"}
{"id": "5108885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5108885", "title": "Mary Hynes", "text": "Mary Hynes\n\nMary Hynes is a Canadian radio and television broadcaster. Formerly associated with TVOntario, including the programs \"Imprint\" and \"Studio 2\", which she co-hosted with Steve Paikin during its first two seasons (1994–95 and 1995–96), she currently hosts the weekly documentary series \"Tapestry\" on CBC Radio One.\n"}
{"id": "7894857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7894857", "title": "Monumental Axis", "text": "Monumental Axis\n\nThe Monumental Axis (\"Eixo Monumental\" in Portuguese) is a central avenue in Brasília's city design.\n\nThe avenue begins on the National Congress of Brazil building and is considered part of the DF-002 road. Its first section is known as \"Ministries Esplanade\" (\"Esplanada dos Ministérios\"), as it is surrounded by ministries buildings. Many important government buildings, monuments and memorials are located on the Monumental Axis.\n\nA common urban legend persists that the Monumental Axis is the widest road in the world, where \"[100 to 160] cars can drive side by side\". This is untrue, as the road consists of two avenues with six lanes on either side; a total of twelve lanes. However, the street has been featured in the Guinness Book of Records as having the widest central reservation of a dual carriageway in the world.\n\nOn April 21, 2008, a year before they formally broke up, the Mexican pop group RBD performed a free concert to a crowd of 500,000 on the Monumental Axis during Empezar Desde Cero Tour 2008. The show was to celebrate the 48th Anniversary of the founding of Brasilia. It was recorded and released as a DVD titled Live in Brasilia. The crowd in attendance was the largest for which the group had performed.\n\n"}
{"id": "25904199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25904199", "title": "National Theatre in Niš", "text": "National Theatre in Niš\n\nThe National Theatre ( or \"\") is a theater in Serbia, that was founded in 1887 as \"Sinđelić\" Theatre, and reorganized in 1906 as National Theatre, following the completion of new theatre building.\n\nThe theater is located on Sinđelić Square, in Niš, Serbia. \n"}
{"id": "38307748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38307748", "title": "PVC clothing", "text": "PVC clothing\n\nPVC clothing, commonly known as \"vinyl clothing\", is shiny clothing made of the plastic polyvinyl chloride (PVC). The PVC plastic is also called vinyl. For this reason, this type of clothing is also called vinyl clothing. PVC is sometimes confused with the similarly shiny patent leather.\n\nThe terms \"PVC\", \"vinyl\" and \"PU\" tend to be used interchangeably by retailers for clothing made from shiny plastic-coated fabrics. These fabrics\nusually consist of a backing woven from polyester fibers with a surface coating of shiny plastic. The plastic layer itself is typically a blend of PVC and polyurethane (PU), with 100% PVC producing a stiff fabric with a glossy shine and 100% PU producing a stretchy fabric with a silky shine.\nA manufacturer's label may say, for example, 67% polyester, 33% polyurethane for a fabric that contains no PVC; or 80% polyvinyl chloride, 20% polyurethane with mention of the polyester backing omitted.\n\nThe PVC can also be produced in bright colours (black, red, white, blue, orange, pink, silver, striped, etc.), adding further visual stimulus to the physical sensations produced by the material. The more frequently found colors are black and red. The PVC clothes are very associated with retro-futuristic look, Goth, Punk, alternative fashions and clothing fetish. A common stereotype is the image of a dominatrix wearing a skin-tight PVC catsuit, usually jet-black. In some cities it is more common to see people wearing PVC clothes, especially in large cities such as Berlin, London, New York City, Montreal, San Francisco, etc.\n\nThe plastics were used in clothing since its invention, particularly in raincoats. But PVC clothing became more noted in the 1960s and early 1970s fashion trend. The fashion designers of that era saw the PVC plastic as the ideal material to design futuristic clothes. During that era, boots, raincoats, dresses and other PVC garments were made in many colors and even transparent and worn in public areas to some degrees. At that time it was also common to see PVC clothes on films and TV series such as The Avengers, for example. And since then these shiny plastic clothes became a fetish object.\n\nIn mid 1990s, clothes made of PVC have been prevalent in young people's fashions, particularly in jackets, skirts and trousers, also appearing in the media. During the mid-1990s it was common to see presenters, models, actresses, actors, singers and other celebrities wearing PVC clothes on TV and magazines. As fashions come round and round again, it would seem that PVC are appearing again in mainstream street fashions as well as continuing to be central to the fetish scene.\n\nFashion designers such as Jean Paul Gaultier, Yves Saint Laurent, Pierre Cardin and André Courrèges have used PVC in their collections. Since 2010, the PVC has been the target of fashion not only for the female public but also to the male public.\n\n\nPVC clothing requires some care to make it last longer and maintain its appearance.\nIt is known that PVC clothes are made with a fabric covered with a plastic layer. For this reason, the PVC clothes should not be over-stretched, to avoid damage to the plastic layer.\nWhen excessively stretching the clothing, the plastic layer can lose its smooth texture and stay striated, losing also part of the original shine, and may even tear.\n\nIf the PVC clothing is not soiled, many people will just freshen the polyester inside up with a fabric refresher product and wipe the plastic outside with a damp sponge. If there is need, PVC clothes should be washed by hand with warm water and a small amount of liquid detergent. Washing powder should not be used because the flakes can remain on clothing after washing, and also can stick to the plastic layer.\n\nTo remove the detergent one should use cold water and after turning the garment inside out it should be left to dry under the shade. After drying the inside (polyester fabric), then it must be turned in the right direction to dry outside (plastic layer).\n\nPVC clothing should never be ironed. This type of clothing is made of heat sensitive plastics and which may melt under the iron, and high temperatures should be avoided from any source, such as flames, dryers, and cigarettes. The fumes from burning or smoking PVC plastic are dangerous.\n\nDifferent coloured PVC garments, especially white, should be stored separately from each other, otherwise staining may occur. PVC clothing is best stored hanging in a garment bag away from other clothing.\n\nThe fabric used for PVC clothes is typically plastic-coated polyester. This PVC fabric is more resistant to wear and tear than rubber, and PVC clothing does not require the use of any shining products. However one can polish PVC clothing if desired with liquid silicone spray which is available from car accessory shops.\n\n"}
{"id": "683252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683252", "title": "Pasargadae", "text": "Pasargadae\n\nPasargadae (from , from Old Persian \"Pāθra-gadā\", \"protective club\" or \"strong club\"; Modern Persian: \"Pāsārgād\") was the capital of the Achaemenid Empire under Cyrus the Great who had issued its construction (559–530 BC); it was also the location of his tomb. It was a city in ancient Persia, located near the city of Shiraz (in Pasargad County), and is today an archaeological site and one of Iran's UNESCO World Heritage Sites.\n\nCyrus the Great began building the capital in 546 BC or later; it was unfinished when he died in battle, in 530 or 529 BC. The remains of the tomb of Cyrus' son and successor Cambyses II have been found in Pasargadae, near the fortress of Toll-e Takht, and identified in 2006.\n\nPasargadae remained the capital of the Achaemenid empire until Cambyses II moved it to Susa; later, Darius founded another in Persepolis. The archaeological site covers 1.6 square kilometres and includes a structure commonly believed to be the mausoleum of Cyrus, the fortress of Toll-e Takht sitting on top of a nearby hill, and the remains of two royal palaces and gardens. Pasargadae Persian Gardens provide the earliest known example of the Persian \"chahar bagh\", or fourfold garden design (see Persian Gardens).\n\nThe Gate R, located at the eastern edge of the palace area, is the oldest known freestanding propylaeum. It may have been the architectural predecessor of the Gate of All Nations at Persepolis.\n\nThe most important monument in Pasargadae is the tomb of Cyrus the Great. It has six broad steps leading to the sepulchre, the chamber of which measures 3.17 m long by 2.11 m wide by 2.11 m high and has a low and narrow entrance. Though there is no firm evidence identifying the tomb as that of Cyrus, Greek historians tell that Alexander believed it was. When Alexander looted and destroyed Persepolis, he paid a visit to the tomb of Cyrus. Arrian, writing in the second century AD, recorded that Alexander commanded Aristobulus, one of his warriors, to enter the monument. Inside he found a golden bed, a table set with drinking vessels, a gold coffin, some ornaments studded with precious stones and an inscription on the tomb. No trace of any such inscription survives, and there is considerable disagreement to the exact wording of the text. Strabo reports that it read:\n\nAnother variation, as documented in \"Persia: The Immortal Kingdom\", is:\n\nThe design of Cyrus' tomb is credited to Mesopotamian or Elamite ziggurats, but the cella is usually attributed to Urartu tombs of an earlier period. In particular, the tomb at Pasargadae has almost exactly the same dimensions as the tomb of Alyattes, father of the Lydian King Croesus; however, some have refused the claim (according to Herodotus, Croesus was spared by Cyrus during the conquest of Lydia, and became a member of Cyrus' court). The main decoration on the tomb is a rosette design over the door within the gable. In general, the art and architecture found at Pasargadae exemplified the Persian synthesis of various traditions, drawing on precedents from Elam, Babylon, Assyria, and ancient Egypt, with the addition of some Anatolian influences.\n\nThe first capital of the Achaemenid Empire, Pasargadae lies in ruins 40'40 kilometers from Persepolis, in present-day Fars province of Iran.\n\nPasargadae was first archaeologically explored by the German archaeologist Ernst Herzfeld in 1905, and in one excavation season in 1928, together with his assistant . Since 1946, the original documents, notebooks, photographs, fragments of wall paintings and pottery from the early excavations are preserved in the Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, in Washington, DC. After Herzfeld, Sir Aurel Stein completed a site plan for Pasargadae in 1934. In 1935, Erich F. Schmidt produced a series of aerial photographs of the entire complex.\n\nFrom 1949 to 1955, an Iranian team led by Ali Sami worked there. A British Institute of Persian Studies team led by David Stronach resumed excavation from 1961 to 1963. It was during the 1960s that a pot-hoard known as the Pasargadae Treasure was excavated near the foundations of 'Pavilion B' at the site. Dating to the 5th-4th centuries BC, the treasure consists of ornate Achaemenid jewellery made from gold and precious gems and is now housed in the National Museum of Iran and the British Museum. It has been suggested that the treasure was buried as a subsequent action once Alexander the Great approached with his army, then remained buried, hinting at violence.\n\nAfter a gap, work was resumed by the Iranian Cultural Heritage Organization and the Maison de l'Orient et de la Méditerranée of the University of Lyon in 2000. The complex is one of the key cultural heritage sites for tourism in Iran.\n\nThere has been growing concern regarding the proposed Sivand Dam, named after the nearby town of Sivand. Despite planning that has stretched over 10 years, Iran's own Iranian Cultural Heritage Organization was not aware of the broader areas of flooding during much of this time.\n\nIts placement between both the ruins of Pasargadae and Persepolis has many archaeologists and Iranians worried that the dam will flood these UNESCO World Heritage sites, although scientists involved with the construction say this is not obvious because the sites sit above the planned waterline. Of the two sites, Pasargadae is the one considered to be more threatened. Experts agree that the planning of future dam projects in Iran will merit an earlier examination of the risks to cultural resource properties.\n\nOf broadly shared concern to archaeologists is the effect of the increase in humidity caused by the lake. All agree that the humidity created by it will speed up the destruction of Pasargadae, yet experts from the Ministry of Energy believe it could be partially compensated for by controlling the water level of the reservoir.\n\nConstruction of the dam began April 19, 2007, with the height of the waterline limited so as to mitigate damage to the ruins.\n\nIn 1930, the Brazilian poet Manuel Bandeira published a poem called \"Vou-me embora pra Pasárgada\" (\"I'm off to Pasargadae\" in Portuguese), in a book entitled \"Libertinagem\". It tells the story of a man who wants to go to Pasargadae, described in the poem as a utopian city. \nThe following is an extract, in the original then in a translation:\n\n<poem>\n\"Vou-me embora pra Pasárgada\"\n\"Lá sou amigo do rei\"\n\"Lá tenho a mulher que eu quero\"\n\"Na cama que escolherei\"\n\n\"E quando eu estiver mais triste\"\n\"Mas triste de não ter jeito\"\n\"Quando de noite me der\"\n\"Vontade de me matar\"\n\"— Lá sou amigo do rei —\"\n\"Terei a mulher que eu quero\"\n\"Na cama que escolherei\"\n\"Vou-me embora pra Pasárgada.\"</poem>\n<poem>I'm off to Pasargadae\nThere I am friends with the king\nThere I shall have the woman I want\nIn the bed of my choice\n\nAnd when I'm sadder\nSo sad there's nothing left\nWhen at night I feel\nA desire to kill myself\n— There I am friends with the king —\nI will have the woman I want\nOn the bed of my choice\nI'm off to Pasargadae.</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "6709810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6709810", "title": "Perry Miller Adato", "text": "Perry Miller Adato\n\nPerry Miller Adato (December 22, 1920 – September 16, 2018) was an American documentary film producer and director and writer. She won an Emmy in 1968 for her first film, \"Dylan Thomas: The World I Breathe\" and won two Emmy nominations for \"Gertrude Stein: When This You See, Remember Me\" in 1970. In 1980 she won an Emmy nomination for \"Picasso-A Painter's Diary.\"\n\nShe was the first woman ever to win the coveted Directors Guild of America Award for \"Georgia O'Keeffe\".\n\nAdato was born Lillian Perry Miller in Yonkers, New York. At age 18 she moved to Greenwich Village. She married Neil M. Adato on September 11, 1955. They had two children, Lauren and Michelle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13416140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13416140", "title": "Pilkington's Lancastrian Pottery &amp; Tiles", "text": "Pilkington's Lancastrian Pottery &amp; Tiles\n\nPilkington's Lancastrian Pottery & Tiles was a manufacturer of tiles, vases and bowls, based in Clifton, Greater Manchester, England. The company was established in 1892 at Clifton Junction, alongside Fletcher's Canal. The company employed talented designers, the most famous of whom was Charles Voysey.\nProduction of art pottery was stopped at the end of the 1930s, although tile production continued.\nToday the site is occupied by Pilkington's Group Plc.\n\nIn 1889 the Clifton and Kersley Coal Company sank a pair of pit shafts with the intention of working the coal seams lying adjacent to the geological feature known as the Pendleton Fault. However, the work became increasingly difficult due to the excessive quantity of water that was encountered. When it became clear that the work would not produce coal, the four Pilkington brothers decided to use the marl that had been encountered to make glazed bricks, however, the marl was found to be unsuitable for this purpose.\n\nBy chance, the secretary of the coal company knew William Burton, a chemist working for Josiah Wedgwood and Sons. Burton tested the marl and suggested that a more commercial venture would be to make tiles. Decorative tiles were at that time becoming quite fashionable and they were in high demand. The site of the proposed factory had many advantages—it was close to Clifton Junction railway station, it was adjacent to Fletcher's Canal and there was abundant coal nearby in the local Wet Earth Colliery, a short distance away along the same canal.\nBy 1903 the factory had developed an opalescent ceramic glaze called Lancastrian, named after the county of Lancashire where the factory was sited. It became popular in Pilkington's Lancastrian line of pottery. A later glaze took its name from Manchester, the Cunian glaze. Other famous glazes were used, e.g. sunstone, eggshell, fiery crystalline, aventurine, merged and curdled glazes. Glazes of different textures were also produced. These \"fruit skin\" glazes had surfaces like orange peel or apricot.\n\nThe pottery's work was exhibited at the Franco-British Exhibition of 1908 in London.\n\nWilliam Burton was a chemist with the Wedgwood Company at the Etruria Works in Stoke-on-Trent, with an extensive knowledge of the ceramics industry. It was he who suggested that the red clay and marl found at Clifton was suitable for production of ceramic tiles. Decorative tiling was becoming a popular trend at the time, and represented a long term commercial proposition. Burton oversaw the production of fine pottery in the style of ancient Persian and Chinese potters, employing fine artists and commissioning work from some of the top designers of the time. Burton was a friend of H. G. Wells and was inspired by the Arts & Crafts Movement, and in particular, the workings of William Morris and John Ruskin. He chose artists and designers that shared this inspiration, and Lancastrian Pottery works became high quality examples of the Arts & Crafts Movement.\n\nBurton invited John Chambers to join him in the running of the Pilkington's Tile & Pottery Company. Chambers was often responsible for designs produced in what became known as the 'Persian style', and was head of the architectural pottery department throughout his time with the company.\n\nHigh lustre glaze finishes were produced from 1906, and are particularly associated with the designer Gordon Forsyth, who joined the company in the same year. The name 'Lancastrian' was used for the new ware due to the location in the county of Lancashire. Later on, 'Cunian' glazes were named after the site's close proximity to Manchester. Glazes of different textures were used. Some of the more famous glazes used by the Royal Lancastrian Pottery Company included sunstone, eggshell, crystalline and aventurine. One of the most notable, Lancastrian Lustre, was exhibited at the Franco-British Exhibition of 1908.\n\nIn 1913 King George V and Queen Mary visited Lord Derby, in whose home several Lancastrian vases were proudly displayed. It was then that permission was granted for the royal warrant to be used and the firm became Pilkington's Royal Lancastrian Pottery Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "57944104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57944104", "title": "Saint John the Evangelist (Furini)", "text": "Saint John the Evangelist (Furini)\n\nSaint John the Evangelist is a 1635–1636 painting by Francesco Furini, which has been in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon since 1987.\n\nIt was inspired by the work of Caravaggio and was commissioned by the painter's patron marquess Vitelli. The facial features show it was based on the same model as the artist's \"Apollo the Archer\" (Columbia University) and for various female allegorical figures.\n"}
{"id": "3516884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3516884", "title": "Salle Le Peletier", "text": "Salle Le Peletier\n\nThe Salle Le Peletier (sometimes referred to as the Salle de la rue Le Peletier or the Opéra Le Peletier) was the home of the Paris Opera from 1821 until the building was destroyed by fire in 1873. The theatre was designed and constructed by the architect François Debret on the site of the garden of the Hôtel de Choiseul on the rue Lepeletier. Due to the many changes in government and management during the theatre's existence, it had a number of different official names, the most important of which were: Théâtre de l'Académie Royale de Musique (1821–1848), Opéra-Théâtre de la Nation (1848–1850), Théâtre de l'Académie Nationale de Musique (1850–1852), Théâtre de l'Académie Impériale de Musique (1852–1854), Théâtre Impérial de l'Opéra (1854–1870), and Théâtre National de l'Opéra (1870–1873).\n\nWhen King Louis XVIII's nephew, Charles Ferdinand, duc de Berry, was fatally stabbed on the night of 13 February 1820 in front of the former theatre of the Paris Opera, the Salle de la rue de Richelieu, the king decided that the theatre would be demolished in order to build a commemorative chapel in its place. However, the project to build a chapel was never carried out due to the 1830 revolution. Today the Fontaine Louvois in the Square Louvois occupies the spot where the chapel would have been built. The Salle de la rue de Richelieu had been the principal venue of the Paris Opera since 1794. Very soon after the death of his nephew in February 1820, the king commissioned the architect François Debret to design a new theatre for the Opéra on the Rue Le Peletier, which was completed one year later. During the construction the opera and ballet companies occupied the Théâtre Favart and the Salle Louvois.\n\nThe Salle Le Peletier was inaugurated on 16 August 1821 with a mixed-bill that opened with the anthem \"Vive Henry VIII\", and included the composer Catel's opera \"Les bayadères\" and the Ballet Master Gardel's ballet \"Le Retour de Zéphire\". Although the theatre was meant to be temporary and was built of wood and plaster, it continued to be used by the Opéra for more than fifty years. Many of the great grand operas of the 19th century were presented for the first time on its stage, among them: Rossini's \"Guillaume Tell\" (1829), Meyerbeer's \"Robert le Diable\" (1831), Halévy's \"La Juive\" (1835), and Verdi's \"Don Carlos\" (1867).\n\nThe theatre, which was 14,000 square metres in area with a 104 ft. stage, was quite advanced for its time. On 6 February 1822 gas was used for the first time in order to light the stage effects in Nicolas Isouard's opera \"Aladin ou La Lampe merveilleuse\". The stage and orchestra pit were able to be removed in order to transform the auditorium into a massive hall which could accommodate large balls and other festivities.\n\nAlong with the Ballet of Her Majesty's Theatre in London, the Salle Le Peletier played host to the heyday of the romantic ballet, with such Balletmasters as Jules Perrot, Arthur Saint-Léon, Filippo Taglioni, Joseph Mazilier, Jean Coralli, and Paul Taglioni staging many masterworks for the Paris Opera Ballet. Among these works: \"La Sylphide\" (1832), \"Giselle\" (1841), \"Paquita\" (1846), \"Le corsaire\" (1856), \"Le papillon\" (1860), \"La source\" (1866), and \"Coppélia\" (1870). Among the great ballerinas to grace the stage of the Opéra during this time were Marie Taglioni, Carlotta Grisi, Carolina Rosati, Fanny Elssler, Lucile Grahn, and Fanny Cerrito.\nIn 1858 the Salle Le Peletier was the setting for one of the most famous games in the history of Chess, the Opera Game between the American master Paul Morphy (White) and two French aristocrats, the Duke of Brunswick and Count Isouard. The game was played in the Duke's private box during a performance of Bellini's \"Norma\".\n\nOn the night of 29 October 1873, the Salle Le Peletier met the same fate as many of its predecessors: it was destroyed by a fire which raged for 27 hours, believed to have been started by the theatre's innovative gas lighting. Fortunately, in 1858 Emperor Napoleon III had hired the civic planner Baron Haussmann to begin construction on a second theatre for the Parisian Opera and Ballet based on the design of architect Charles Garnier. In 1875, the new theatre, today known as the Palais Garnier, was inaugurated.\n\nOperas\n\nBallets -\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14342884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14342884", "title": "Scepticism and Animal Faith", "text": "Scepticism and Animal Faith\n\nScepticism and Animal Faith (1923) is a later work by Spanish-born American philosopher George Santayana. He intended it to be \"merely the introduction to a new system of philosophy,\" a work that would later be called \"The Realms of Being\", which constitutes the bulk of his philosophy, along with \"The Life of Reason\".\n\n\"Scepticism\" is Santayana's major treatise on epistemology; after its publication, he wrote no more on the topic. His preface begins humbly, with Santayana saying:\nMoreover, he does not claim philosophical supremacy: \n\nWhile Santayana acknowledges the importance of skepticism to philosophy, and begins by doubting almost everything; from here, he seeks to find some kind of epistemological truths. Idealism is correct, claims Santayana, but is of no consequence. He makes this pragmatic claim by asserting that men do not live by the principles of idealism, even if it is true. We have functioned for eons without adhering to such principles, and may continue, pragmatically, as such. He posits the necessity of the eponymous \"Animal Faith\", which is belief in that which our senses tell us; \"Philosophy begins \"in medias res\"\", he assures us at the beginning of his treatise.\n"}
{"id": "53001008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53001008", "title": "Staffordshire helmet", "text": "Staffordshire helmet\n\nThe Staffordshire helmet is an Anglo-Saxon helmet discovered in 2009 as part of the Staffordshire Hoard. It is part of the largest discovery of contemporary gold and silver metalwork in Britain, which contained more than 4,000 precious fragments, approximately a third of which came from a single high-status helmet. Following those found at Benty Grange, Sutton Hoo, Coppergate, Wollaston, and Shorwell, it is only the sixth known Anglo-Saxon helmet.\n\nThe helmet, along with the entire hoard, was purchased jointly by the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery and the Potteries Museum & Art Gallery, and is currently undergoing conservation work. In 2012 a second find of metalwork, including the second cheek guard, was made at the original site.\n\nThe helmet is believed to have been made around AD 600-650. Two replicas of the crested helmet have been made for display in the museums in Birmingham and Stoke.\n\n"}
{"id": "1334163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1334163", "title": "Thangka", "text": "Thangka\n\nA thangka, variously spelt as thangka, tangka, thanka, or tanka (; ; Nepal Bhasa: पौभा), is a Tibetan Buddhist painting on cotton, silk appliqué, usually depicting a Buddhist deity, scene, or mandala. Thangkas are traditionally kept unframed and rolled up when not on display, mounted on a textile backing somewhat in the style of Chinese scroll paintings, with a further silk cover on the front. So treated, thangkas can last a long time, but because of their delicate nature, they have to be kept in dry places where moisture will not affect the quality of the silk. Most thangkas are relatively small, comparable in size to a Western half-length portrait, but some are extremely large, several metres in each dimension; these were designed to be displayed, typically for very brief periods on a monastery wall, as part of religious festivals. Most thangkas were intended for personal meditation or instruction of monastic students. They often have elaborate compositions including many very small figures. A central deity is often surrounded by other identified figures in a symmetrical composition. Narrative scenes are less common, but do appear.\n\nThangka serve as important teaching tools depicting the life of the Buddha, various influential lamas and other deities and bodhisattvas. One subject is The Wheel of Life (\"Bhavachakra\"), which is a visual representation of the Abhidharma teachings (Art of Enlightenment). The term may sometimes be used of works in other media than painting, including reliefs in metal and woodblock prints. Today printed reproductions at poster size of painted thangka are commonly used for devotional as well as decorative purposes. Many tangkas were produced in sets, though they have often subsequently become separated.\n\nThangka perform several different functions. Images of deities can be used as teaching tools when depicting the life (or lives) of the Buddha, describing historical events concerning important Lamas, or retelling myths associated with other deities. Devotional images act as the centerpiece during a ritual or ceremony and are often used as mediums through which one can offer prayers or make requests. Overall, and perhaps most importantly, religious art is used as a meditation tool to help bring one further down the path to enlightenment. The Buddhist Vajrayana practitioner uses a thanga image of their yidam, or meditation deity, as a guide, by visualizing \"themselves as being that deity, thereby internalizing the Buddha qualities\" tangkas hang on or beside altars, and may be hung in the bedrooms or offices of monks and other devotees.\n\nTibetan Buddhist painting developed from widespread traditions of early Buddhist paintings which now only survive in a few sites such as the Ajanta Caves in India and the Mogao Caves on the Silk Road, which has very extensive wall-paintings and was the repository for what are now the earliest surviving Tibetan paintings on cloth. The thanka form developed alongside the tradition of Tibetan Buddhist wall paintings, which are or were mostly in monasteries.\n\nThe early history of the form is more easily traced through these murals, which survive in greater numbers than the portable paintings which certainly once existed. Most thanka were commissioned by individuals, who were believed to acquire merit by doing so. They might then be given to a monastery or another individual, or retained for use by the commissioner. Some thangka have inscriptions on their back recording that they were the personal meditation image (\"thugs dam\") of a notable monk. Most artists were probably monks, although lay artists seem to have existed, as they did for metalwork sculpture. The commissioner would provide the materials, which were often valuable, and by tradition the compensation to the artist was regarded as a \"gift\" rather than a fee. The word \"thangka\" means \"thing that one unrolls\" in Classical Tibetan. Thangka are very rarely signed, but some artists are known, more because they were important monastic leaders than famous as artists. Painting was a valued accomplishment in a monk.\n\nThe earliest survivals of Tibetan paintings on cloth are in some pieces from the Mogao Caves at Dunhuang on the Silk Road, in Gansu province, China. The \"Library Cave\" there was a repository of old or worn out manuscripts, paintings, prints, textiles and other items which was sealed off in the 11th century, after several centuries of deposits. Many of the paintings have Tibetan inscriptions or are in a style that can be recognized as Tibetan, as opposed to the dominant Chinese style and some pieces reflecting Indian styles. Though they are hard to date, it is thought that these pieces mainly come from a period c. 781–848 when the area was ruled by Tibet.\n\nSurviving tangkas on cloth certainly from Tibet itself start in the 11th century, after the revival of Buddhism; there are some 20 surviving from this and the 12th century. Such early examples typically have compositions that are already complex, but less so than in later examples. As later the typical compositions shows a central figure flanked by smaller other figures, often in framed compartments, or surrounded by flaming halos or seated on small clouds. Behind these figures a landscape background including much sky is often indicated, though little of it may be visible. The central figure may be a deity, and arhat, or an important monk, and the same groups make up the background figures. Several of the figures may be different \"aspects\" or reincarnations of each other according to Buddhist theology. In the example at left the flanking bodhisattvas are in a style, one of several found in such figures in this period, that appears derived from central Indian art.\n\nOver the following centuries Tibetan painting, both on walls and thangka, continued to develop in its distinctive style, balancing between the two major influences of Indo-Nepalese and Chinese painting, despite Buddhism being in general decline in both those regions. Styles could vary considerably between the different regions of Tibet as well as the wider region where tangkas were painted. Within Tibet the regions nearer Nepal and China were often more influenced by those styles. Bhutanese tangkas were mainly influenced by Central Tibet. The different monastic orders also developed somewhat different stylistic characters.\n\nTibetan painting incorporated many elements from Chinese painting, especially from the 14th century onwards, reaching a peak in the 18th century. One aspect of this was allowing more space and emphasis to the landscape background. In general the style of figures in thangka remains derived from the Indo-Nepalese tradition. According to Giuseppe Tucci, by the time of the Qing Dynasty, \"a new Tibetan art was then developed, which in a certain sense was a provincial echo of the Chinese 18th century's smooth ornate preciosity.\" Throughout the period the Chinese Imperial court retained diplomatic and other contacts with Tibet for political reasons, but when the Manchu Qing dynasty came to power court interest in Tibetan Buddhism increased, and many Chinese works in a very refined and elegant style, though eventually becoming rather stiff, were produced by Imperial artists and often sent to Tibet as gifts, influencing local styles. As well as the court style, there was influence from the regions of China near to Tibet.\n\nTangkas were painted in all the areas where Tibetan Buddhism flourished, which apart from those mentioned already included Mongolia, Ladakh, Sikkim, and parts of Himalayan India in Arunachal Pradesh, Dharamshala, and Lahaul and Spiti district in Himachal Pradesh. It is also practiced in parts of Russia (Kalmykia, Buryatia, and Tuva) and Northeast China.\n\nOther traditions of Buddhist scroll paintings are not usually covered by the term thangka, although they may have many similarities, and descend from the same origins. An example is Japanese painting, where a number of very early examples survive from the Nara (710-794) and Heian periods (794 to 1185). Most of these are National Treasures of Japan. \"Raigō-zu\" developed as one popular genre, showing the Amida Buddha accompanied by bodhisattvas welcoming the souls of the faithful to his Western Paradise. These were, and still are, carried into the house of a person who was near death.\n\nBased on technique and material, tangkas can be grouped by types. Generally, they are divided into two broad categories: those that are painted (Tib.) bris-tan—and those made of silk, either by appliqué or embroidery.\n\nTangkas are further divided into these more specific categories:\n\n\nWhereas typical tangkas are fairly small, with painted area between about 20 to 50 centimetres high, there are also giant festival tangkas, usually appliqué, and designed to be unrolled against a wall in a monastery for particular religious occasions. These are likely to be wider than they are tall, and may be sixty or more feet across and perhaps twenty or more high. In Bhutan at least these are called thongdrels. There are also larger than average thankas that were designed for altars or display in temples.\n\nSomewhat related are Tibetan tsakli, cards which look like miniature tangkas perhaps up to 15 centimetres high, and often square, usually containing a single figure. These were mostly produced in sets and were usually used in earlier stages of training monks, or as initiation cards or offerings, or to use when constructing temporary mandalas. Another related form is the painted wooden top cover for a manuscript book, giving a long narrow strip, typically some 6 cm by 55 cm, often painted with a row of seated figures in compartments. The techniques for both these forms are essentially the same as for thangka, and presumably the same artists worked on them. Because tangkas can be quite expensive, people nowadays use posters of tangkas as an alternative to the real tangkas for religious purposes.\n\nSources on Asian art often describe all-textile tangkas as \"tapestry\", but tangkas that meet the normal definition of tapestry with the image created only by weaving a single piece of fabric with different colours of thread are extremely rare, though a few tapestry examples in the Chinese \"kesi\" technique are known, mostly from the medieval period. There is a large example in the Hermitage Museum, although in this and other pieces the different colours are woven separately and then sewn together in a type of patchwork. Most thangka described as tapestry are some combination of embroidery, appliqué and other techniques.\n\nTangkas are painted on cotton or silk. The most common is a loosely woven cotton produced in widths from 40 to 58 cm (16 - 23 inches). While some variations do exist, tangkas wider than 45 cm (17 or 18 inches) frequently have seams in the support. The paint consists of pigments in a water-soluble medium of animal glue. Both mineral and organic pigments are used. In Western terminology, this is a distemper technique; although it is often described as a form of gouache, this is incorrect, and the paint was applied as a warm liquid, mixed shortly before application.\n\nMost old thangka have inscriptions on the back, usually the mantra of the deity depicted, but sometimes also information as to later owners, though rarely information about the original commissioner or artist. Sometimes x-rays allow pious inscriptions placed under the paint on the front of the image to be seen. Inscriptions may be made in the shape of a stupa, or sometimes other shapes.\n\nThe composition of a thangka, as with the majority of Buddhist art, is highly geometric. Arms, legs, eyes, nostrils, ears, and various ritual implements are all laid out on a systematic grid of angles and intersecting lines. A skilled thangka artist will generally select from a variety of predesigned items to include in the composition, ranging from alms bowls and animals, to the shape, size, and angle of a figure's eyes, nose, and lips. The process seems very methodical, but often requires deep understanding of the symbolism involved to capture the spirit of it.\n\nThangka often overflow with symbolism and allusion. Because the art is explicitly religious, all symbols and allusions must be in accordance with strict guidelines laid out in Buddhist scripture. The artist must be properly trained and have sufficient religious understanding, knowledge, and background to create an accurate and appropriate thangka:\n\n\"Tibetan art exemplifies the nirmanakaya, the physical body of Buddha, and also the qualities of the Buddha, perhaps in the form of a deity. Art objects, therefore, must follow rules specified in the Buddhist scriptures regarding proportions, shape, color, stance, hand positions, and attributes in order to personify correctly the Buddha or Deities.\"\n\nThe earliest surviving thangka paintings from Nepal date to about the 14th century AD, but this is probably well after Buddhists and Hindus began to make illustrations of the deities and natural scenes. Historically, Tibetan and Chinese influence in Nepalese paintings is quite evident in Paubhas (Tangkas), and Nepalese styles have been a significant influence on Tibetan art. Paubhas are of two types, the Palas which are illustrative paintings of the deities and the Mandala, which are mystic diagrams paintings of complex test prescribed patterns of circles and square each having specific significance. It was through Nepal that Mahayana Buddhism was introduced into Tibet during reign of Angshuvarma in the seventh century AD. There was therefore a great demand for religious icons and Buddhist manuscripts for newly built monasteries throughout Tibet. A number of Buddhist manuscripts, including Prajnaparamita, were copied in Kathmandu Valley for these monasteries. Astasahas rika Prajnaparamita for example, was copied in Patan in the year 999 AD., during the reign of Narendra Dev and Udaya Deva, for the Sa-Shakya monastery in Tibet. For the Nor monastery in Tibet, two copies were made in Nepal, one of Astasahasrika Prajnaparamita in 1069 AD and the other of Kavyadarsha in 1111 AD. The influence of Nepalese art extended to China in regular order in the thirteenth century. Nepalese artisans were dispatched to the courts of Chinese emperors at their request to perform their workmanship and impart expert knowledge, with the Nepalese innovator and architect Balbahu, known by his popular name Araniko becoming the chief Imperial artist of Kubilai Khan.\n\nAfter the introduction of paper, palm leaf became less popular, however, it continued to be used until the eighteenth century. Paper manuscripts imitated the oblong shape but were wider than the palm leaves. From the fifteenth century onwards, brighter colours gradually began to appear in Nepalese thangka. Because of the growing importance of the tantric cult, various aspects of Shiva and Shakti were painted in conventional poses. Mahakala, Manjushri, Lokeshwara and other deities were equally popular and so were also frequently represented in thangka paintings of later dates. As Tantrism embodies the ideas of esoteric power, magic forces, and a great variety of symbols, strong emphasis is laid on the female element and sexuality in the paintings of that period.\n\nReligious paintings worshipped as icons are known as Paubha in Newari and thangka in Tibetan. The origin of Paubha or thangka paintings may be attributed to the Nepalese artists responsible for creating a number of special metal works and wall- paintings as well as illuminated manuscripts in Tibet. Realizing the great demand for religious icons in Tibet, these artists, along with monks and traders, took with them from Nepal not only metal sculptures but also a number of Buddhist manuscripts. One of the earliest specimens of Nepalese Thangka painting dates from the thirteenth /fourteenth century and shows Amitabha surrounded by bodhisattva. Another Nepalese thangka with three dates in the inscription (the last one corresponding to 1369 A.D.), is one of the earliest known thangka with inscriptions. The \"Mandala of Vishnu \" dated 1420 A.D., is another fine example of the painting of this period. Early Nepalese Tangkas are simple in design and composition. The main deity, a large figure, occupies the central position while surrounded by smaller figures of lesser divinities.\n\nDuring the reign of Tibetan Dharma King Trisong Duetsen the Tibetan masters refined their already well-developed arts through research and studies of different country's tradition. Thanka painting's lining and measurement, costumes, implementations and ornaments are mostly based on Indian styles. The drawing of figures is based on Nepalese style and the background sceneries are based on Chinese style. Thus, the thangka paintings became a unique and distinctive art. Although the practice of thanka painting was originally done as a way of gaining merit it has nowadays evolved into a commercial business and the noble intentions it once carried has been diluted. Tibetans do not sell Tangkas on a large scale as the selling of religious artifacts such as tangkas and idols is frowned upon in the Tibetan community and thus non Tibetan groups have been able to monopolize on its (thangka's) popularity among Buddhist and art enthusiasts from the west.\n\nThangka have developed in the northern Himalayan regions among the Lamas. Besides Lamas, Gurung and Tamang communities are also producing Tankas, which provide substantial employment opportunities for many people in the hills. Newari Thankas or paubha have been produced in Kathmandu valley from the 13th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52997210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52997210", "title": "The Avenue in the Rain", "text": "The Avenue in the Rain\n\nThe Avenue in the Rain is a 1917 oil painting by the American Impressionist painter Childe Hassam. It depicts Fifth Avenue in New York City in the rain, draped with US flags. The painting is one of six works by Hassam in the permanent art collection of the White House in Washington DC.\n\nBetween 1916 and 1919, Hassam completed around 30 paintings of streets decorated with flags. This work dates to February 1917, shortly before the US joined the First World War, at a time when patriotic fervour was rising in the US. The previous month, Germany extended its unrestricted submarine warfare to neutral ships, including vessels bearing the US flag. The Zimmermann Telegram became public knowledge at the end of February 1917, and the US declared war on Germany on 6 April 1917.\n\nThe painting measures and is dominant by red and blue and whites tones, representing the stars and stripes. Several dark figures in the middle distance hold umbrellas, and while the far distance fades into the blue background. The flags seem to float in mid-air, flying from poles that project out from the buildings on the street, but the buildings are not visible. The flags and human figures are reflected on the wet street and sidewalk. Hassam may have been influenced by two similar works of Claude Monet depicting national celebrations in Paris on 30 June 1878.\n\nIt was donated to the White House in 1963 by Thomas Mellon Evans and hung between the windows in John F. Kennedy's blue-themed President's Bedroom (now a private sitting room, adjacent to the Yellow Oval Room on the second floor), and then in the President's Dining Room for many years. It hung in the Oval Office during both Bill Clinton and Barack Obama's terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "47938454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47938454", "title": "The Butchers (2014 film)", "text": "The Butchers (2014 film)\n\nThe Butchers (also known as Death Factory and The Factory) is a 2014 horror film directed by Steven Judd and written by David Dittlinger and Stephen Durham.\n\nWhile on a bus with his brother, Brian, and a dozen others, Simon has a nightmare about when he fatally clubbed his abusive father, who had killed their mother. In a nearby ghost town, the landowner meets JB, a lawyer who wants to buy the property, primarily for its museum dedicated to serial killers: Albert Fish, John Wayne Gacy, Jack the Ripper, Jeffrey Dahmer, Ed Gein, and the Zodiac, \"The Death Factory\". When the landowner refuses to sell the museum along with the rest of his property, JB stabs him, then prepares an occult ritual with a Book of the Dead, and blood samples taken from the displays in the Death Factory.\n\nElsewhere, the bus Simon is on breaks down, so he and the other passengers go in search of aid while the driver remains with the vehicle, which he disappears with after the group leaves. The passengers reach the ghost town, and while the others debate what to do, Star and Ren wander off, and uncover JB's belongings. For fun, the duo read from the Book of the Dead, unintentionally resurrecting Fish, Gacy, Dahmer, Gein, the Zodiac, and the Ripper, who is revealed to be lesbian. \n\nWhile JB fights to flee from Fish, Star is killed by Gein, and Ren is slain by the Zodiac. Simon is then attacked by Fish, whose neck he breaks, causing Fish to disintegrate into a dust that enters Simon's body. The other murderers, who begin succumbing to infighting, continue to run amok. Gacy stabs Bill, the Ripper dismembers Nicole, JB guts Candi, and Gein stabs Dahmer, and then is bludgeoned by JB.\n\nSimon stabs Gacy and the Ripper, and absorbs their \"power\" like he did Fish's, Gein did Dahmer's, and JB did Gein's. Simon, Brian, and the remaining passengers, are then confronted by JB, who impales Simon, though his friends resurrect him with the Book of the Dead, giving Simon the chance to snap JB's neck. Simon is then overpowered by the Zodiac, who the others set on fire, and hit with the landowner's car, which they and Simon drive off in.\n\nThe bus driver, who is implied to be Satan, reappears, and revives JB, noting, \"You think you can steal from me, and there won't be Hell to pay? Or should I say, repay? C'mon, son, you've got work to do.\"\n\n\nRob Getz of Horror News gave \"The Butchers\" a faintly positive review, writing, \"No one will accuse \"Death Factory\" of greatness, but it would lose its charm if it were\" and \"Relying far more on curiosity factor than upon consistency or execution, it succeeds almost in spite of itself\". UK Horror Scene's Dave Wain gave the film a 0/10, and condemned it as \"an abhorrent sleazy little movie that will only serve to repel and disgust anyone that's unfortunate to come across it\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51419326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51419326", "title": "The Exception", "text": "The Exception\n\nThe Exception is a 2016 romantic war drama directed by David Leveaux, in his directorial debut, and written by Simon Burke, based on Alan Judd's 2003 novel \"The Kaiser's Last Kiss\". The film stars Jai Courtney, Lily James, Janet McTeer, and Christopher Plummer. The plot is a fictionalized account of the last few days in the life of exiled Kaiser Wilhelm II (Plummer), when a German soldier (Courtney) tries to determine whether or not a British spy has infiltrated the Kaiser's home in the Netherlands during the onset of World War II. He falls for a young Jewish Dutch woman (James) during his investigation.\n\nIn 2014, Egoli Tossell Film announced that development on a film adaptation of Judd's novel had begun. Principal photography in Belgium lasted six weeks in 2015. The film held its world premiere at the 2016 Toronto International Film Festival in the Special Presentations section. The film received a limited release and video-on-demand release on 2 June 2017 through A24 and DirecTV Cinema in the United States. The film was released on 2 October 2017 in the United Kingdom through Signature Entertainment.\n\nDuring World War II, Captain Stefan Brandt (Jai Courtney) is sent to head the personal bodyguard of exiled Kaiser Wilhelm II (Christopher Plummer) at his Huis Doorn home in Utrecht, Netherlands. Following the invasion of the Netherlands, Nazi authorities are concerned that Dutch spies may be watching Wilhelm. \n\nUpon arriving at the residence, Brandt is drawn into an unexpected and passionate romance with Mieke de Jong (Lily James), one of the maids. Mieke soon reveals to Brandt that she is secretly Jewish. \n\nGestapo Inspector Dietrich (Mark Dexter) informs Brandt that the British Secret Service has an agent in a nearby village. In addition to keeping an eye on the Kaiser, Brandt is ordered to determine and report the identity of the agent. It turns out to be Mieke, who reports to a pastor at the local church on events at the Kaiser's home. When SS Commander Heinrich Himmler (Eddie Marsan) decides to visit with a large SS platoon, Brandt is forced to choose between following the Nazi party agenda and protecting Mieke.\n\nAs his involvement with Mieke continues, Brandt notices a smell of gun oil from her room. He later sees Mieke leaving the residence grounds and follows her. Mieke again visits the pastor and, unaware that Brandt is watching outside a window, tells the pastor that she is prepared to assassinate Himmler as revenge for the SS' killing her father and husband. \n\nThe SS then intercepts the pastor’s radio transmissions to Britain. They arrest and mercilessly beat the pastor. Shortly afterward, Wilhelm's wife Hermine (Janet McTeer) discovers the lovers' affair and notifies Wilhelm, expecting him to dismiss Mieke and discipline Brandt. Wilhelm, however, supports the relationship. In private, he reveals to the lovers that he fathered illegitimate children prior to meeting Hermine.\n\nWhen the time comes to have the house searched before Himmler's arrival, Brandt himself searches Mieke's room to protect her ruse. \n\nAfter Himmler's arrival, Brandt learns that the pastor has revealed Mieke's identity as the British agent. He locates her and urges her to flee. She refuses, insisting that she has a duty. \n\nMeanwhile, Himmler extends to Wilhelm an invitation from Adolf Hitler to return to Berlin. He then meets with Brandt and Dietrich, informing them of the gesture and its intention as a trap to expose and eradicate supporters of the monarchy restoration. Against orders, Brandt passes the information along to Wilhelm’s adjutant, Colonel Sigurd von Ilsemann (Ben Daniels).\n\nMieke does her duty and imparts to Wilhelm a message from the British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. Wilhelm is offered asylum in Great Britain and restoration to the German throne after the defeat of the Nazis. He refuses, preferring not to leave Utrecht. \n\nAs the Gestapo closes in on the mansion, searching for Mieke, Brandt devises an escape plan. Wilhelm, Mieke, and Brandt escape in a van with Wilhelm pretending to have had a heart attack. Brandt kills Dietrich and another suspicious officer in the process.\n\nDeep in the woods, Mieke decides to flee and asks Brandt to join her. She fears if he stays, he will be executed for the murders. Brandt, however, insists that he has a duty to Germany and a protective alibi (he brought Wilhelm to hospital, while Mieke killed the officers and escaped). \n\nAs Mieke departs, Brandt repeats a marriage proposal that Mieke had earlier refused in fear. This time, she tells Brandt to find her after the war and disappears into the woods.\n\nSome time later, Brandt is seen at a desk in a Berlin office. He is delivered a package, which contains a book of Friedrich Nietzsche's writings that Mieke had shown him. Inside is written a London address. In London, Mieke is seated on a park bench when she is informed that the prime minister is ready to see her. Rising, Mieke puts her hand on her belly, obviously pregnant. \n\nIn Brandt's office, an air raid siren sounds. While others evacuate, Brandt remains seated, reading Mieke's book. A plane is heard flying overhead as the screen cuts to black.\n\n\nChristopher Plummer's longtime manager and one of the film's lead producers, Lou Pitt, was recommended Alan Judd's novel \"The Kaiser's Last Kiss\". Pitt said, \"The first time I heard about the novel was from Chris who liked the character and setting quite a lot as did I after reading it ... this would have been around 2005 or 2006. At the time, the book was under option, but for good reason, we kept an eye on it.”\n\nOn 21 May 2014, Egoli Tossell Film and its parent company Film House Germany revealed that a film adaptation of Judd's novel was in development. At the 2015 Cannes Film Festival, Lotus Entertainment handled international sales for the film, previously titled \"The Kaiser's Last Kiss\".\n\nOn 12 May 2015, it was announced that Lily James would play the character Mieke de Jong. On 7 July 2015, Jai Courtney was cast in the leading role as Captain Stefan Brandt. On 11 September 2015, Janet McTeer and Eddie Marsan joined the cast of \"The Kaiser's Last Kiss\" as Princess Hermine Reuss of Greiz and Heinrich Himmler, respectively.\n\nOn 11 September 2015, it was confirmed that principal photography was underway in Belgium, The film was shot in 33 days over six weeks in various locations in Belgium in 2015. The scenes were filmed inside Leeuwergem Castle, Flanders.\n\nIn October 2016, A24 and DirecTV Cinema acquired U.S distribution rights to the film. The film was released on 2 June 2017. The film was the closing-night selection of the 2017 Newport Beach Film Festival, where Lily James' performance was referred to as \"a true breakout\" by Festival co-founder and chief executive officer Gregg Schwenk. It was released on DVD and Blu-ray in the U.S. by Lionsgate on 8 August 2017.\n\nReview aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gives the film an approval rating of 74% based on 53 reviews, with an average rating of 6.1/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"The Exception (The Kaiser's Last Kiss)\" elegantly blends well-dressed period romance and war drama into a solidly crafted story further elevated by Christopher Plummer's excellent work and the efforts of a talented supporting cast.\" Metacritic gives the film a score of 60 out of 100, based on reviews from 15 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22834149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22834149", "title": "Theater Basel", "text": "Theater Basel\n\nTheater Basel is the municipal theatre of the city of Basel, Switzerland, which is home to the city's opera and ballet companies. The theatre also presents plays and musicals in addition to operas and operettas. \n\nBecause the theatre does not have its own orchestra, the Basel Symphony Orchestra is usually contracted to perform for opera and ballet productions as needed. For baroque-opera productions, La Cetra, the baroque orchestra of the Schola Cantorum Basiliensis, is engaged.\n\nTheater Basel was founded in 1834 under the name Basler Stadttheater. The first theatre was designed by Swiss architect Melchior Berri. \n\nIn 1873 work on a new theatre began which was designed by Johann Jakob Stehlin Jr.. This second theatre opened in 1875 and was used until it was destroyed by fire on October 7th, 1904. \n\nPlans for a third theatre were soon made, but it was five years before the theatre finally opened in 1909. The fourth theatre opened in 1975.\n\nIn October 2018, the company announced the appointment of Kristiina Poska as its next General Music Director (GMD; \"Generalmusikdirektorin\"), effective with the 2019-2020 season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3772752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3772752", "title": "Unitary urbanism", "text": "Unitary urbanism\n\nUnitary urbanism (UU) was the critique of \"status quo\" \"urbanism\", employed by the Letterist International and then further developed by the Situationist International between 1953 and 1960.\n\nThe praxis originates from the Lettrist technique of hypergraphics which was applied to architecture by the Lettrist International (LI). The UU critique of urbanism was further developed in the 1950s by the LI, and consists of a range of practices that include, but are not limited to:\n\nThe critical practice continued to be developed by the Situationists and others. It was largely abandoned for the Debordian theory of the spectacle after the Second Situationist International and Situationist Antinational were formed. London based evoL PsychogeogrAphix is one of the few groups openly practicing unitary urbanism today.\n\nUnitary urbanism was announced as a very specific praxis at the Alba platform between the Lettrist International and the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus. In his Address to the Alba Conference in September 1956, the Lettrist International Delegate Gil J Wolman said: \"A unitary urbanism—the synthesis of art and technology that we call for—must be constructed according to certain new values of life, values which now need to be distinguished and disseminated.\" This mode of urban practice was also called for in a tract distributed during a demonstration by Lettrists in Turin, Italy in December 1956.\n\nConstant Nieuwenhuys and Guy Debord disagreed about the praxis, issuing the designation \"the complex, ongoing activity which consciously recreates man's environment according to the most advanced conceptions in every domain,\" however the widening gulf between Nieuwenhuys' \"structural\" approach and Debord's focus on \"content\" eventually lead to Nieuwenhuy's split from the SI in 1960.\n\nUnitary urbanism, one of the major early Situationist concerns, stands on two tenets:\n\nIn the relative utopia of the UU ideal, the structural and artistic elements of human's metropolitan surroundings are blended into such grey area that one cannot identify where function ends and play begins. The resulting society, while it caters to fundamental needs, does so in an atmosphere of continual exploration, leisure, and stimulating ambience.\n\n\n\"'Whatever prestige the bourgeoisie may today be willing to grant to fragmentary or deliberately retrograde artistic tentatives, creation can now be nothing less than a synthesis aiming at the construction of entire atmospheres and styles of life. ... A unitary urbanism—the synthesis we call for, incorporating arts and technologies—must be created in accordance with new values of life, values which we now need to distinguish and disseminate.'\"<br>—George Williams, \"La plate-forme d’Alba\"; originally appeared in Potlatch: Information Bulletin of the Lettrist International #27 (Paris, 2 November 1956), quoting Gil J Wolman.\n\n"}
{"id": "41389758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41389758", "title": "Want of Matter", "text": "Want of Matter\n\n“Want of Matter” (in Hebrew: דלות החומר; Dalut HaHahomer) is an Israeli style of art that existed in the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. Characteristics of this style include the use of “meager” creative materials, artistic sloppiness, and criticism of the social reality and the myth of Israel society. Among the artists identified with “Want of Matter” are Raffi Lavie, Yair Garbuz, Michal Na'aman, Tamar Getter and Nahum Tevet.\n\nThe “Want of Matter” style grew out of a historical-retrospective view of Israeli art. The name originated in an exhibition called “The Want of Matter: A Quality in Israeli Art” curated by Sara Breitberg-Semel, which took place in March 1986 at the Tel Aviv Museum. Breitberg-Semel, then curator of Israeli art at the museum, mounted this exhibition as a summation and continuation of the exhibitions “Artist,Society,Artist” and “Different Spirit” (1981). It was an attempt to distinguish between local art and the style of international art of this period by means of a sociological and esthetic survey of Israeli artists and their attitude toward European artistic traditions. Breitberg-Semel saw the roots of the style in Pop Art, Arte Povera and Conceptual art. Another highly significant element in Breitberg-Semel’s view was the concept “anesthetic,” the roots of which could be found in the Jewish Talmudic tradition, which puts the text in the center of culture.\n\nBreitberg-Semel’s attempt to trace the development of “Want of Matter” gave rise to a clear historical line, beginning with the painting of the “New Horizons” group. The members of this group developed an abstract style that came to be known as “lyrical abstract” within the framework of which the painters created an abstraction of form influenced by Expressionism. The artists who followed in the footsteps of these artists, Aviva Uri and Arie Aroch, used the artists of the “Want of Matter” group as their esthetic model with regard to their relationship to the materials they used in their paintings, to their ascetic materialism, and to their combined use of the abstract and veiled iconography.\n\nThe first generation of artists in the “Want of Matter” group in the 1960s were partners in a number of avant-garde artistic experiments, the most important of which were the activities of a group called “10+” This group, which never had a unified political or esthetic direction, united around the influences of international art and the use of new artistic materials such as photographs to create two dimensional art, artistic “activity,” and even the use of the pioneering video art films in Israel. \nVisually, \"The Want of Matter\" style distilled its characteristics from these diverse influences, preferring painting to three-dimensional sculpture. Overall, this style can be summed up as focusing on the use of low-cost materials identified with the establishment of Israel, such as plywood, cardboard, collages, photographs arranged as collages, industrial paints, and writing and scribbling within the work. The use of these materials reflected the “Ars Poetica” approach and gave an intentionally humble appearance to the surface of the paintings, a look which was meant to add a dimension of criticism by the artists toward Israeli society.\n\nThe caption on the exhibit “Want of Matter” included a quotation from the Book of Deuteronomy (30:14) -- “But the word is very near you.” This quotation captured the point of view of this group of artists, according to Breitberg-Semel, a secular, modernist point of view mixed with Jewish symbolism. The works were pointedly free of religious symbolism, as Breitberg –Semel notes, defining the works of Raffi Lavie: “There is no Western Wall, no Old City Wall, no Augusta Victoria,” while on the other hand, the works were created “against the background of a religion whose esthetic and non-materialist point of view were its symbols.” The development of this idea can be seen the article “Agrippas versus Nimrod” (1988), in which Breitberg-Semel expressed the desire to inculcate into their art a secular, pluralistic point of view influenced by Jewish tradition. \nThe identification of Judaism with abstract art had already happened in the past, when it was based on the iconoclastic Orthodox tradition, in the spirit of the prohibition against the making of statues or masks that appears in The Ten Commandments. In 1976 this idea appeared in the Hebrew translation of an article by the American art critic Robert Pincus Witten, published in the first issue of the art journal Musag (in Hebrew: \"Concept\"). The typical expression of this point of view on the Israeli artist can be found in an article on the work of Arie Aroch, who is considered the model for Raffi Lavie and his generation. The concept of “anestheticism” fueled the writings of the young artists, as an image within the works themselves, writing which relates to the relationship between the Jewish Talmudic tradition and a preoccupation with borders and national symbols as an expression of critical Zionist Judaism. In Breitberg-Semel’s writing, these artists are portrayed as the “disinherited sabra,” cut off from Jewish tradition to the same degree that they were cut off from the European Christian tradition.\n\nIn the article by Breitberg-Semel that accompanied the “Want of Matter” exhibition, the artist Raffi Lavie was presented as the typical representative of the style. Lavie’s works put forth the idea of “The City of Tel Aviv” as a combination of European-Zionist modernism and neglect and abandonment. As the years passed, the image of Lavie himself, dressed sloppily in shorts, with rubber flip-flops on his feet, arrogant, “native,” and “prickly,” became the typical expression of this aesthetic school. Lavie’s works, which included childish scribbles, collages of magazine illustrations, advertisements of Tel Aviv cultural events, stickers with words “head” or “geraniums” written on them, and above all the plywood sheet, sawed to a consistent size of 120 cm., and painted in whitewash, became the most recognizable symbols of “Want of Matter.”\n\nIn addition to developing a comprehensive visual style, Lavie encouraged discussion of his works on a formalist level. In interviews, Lavie refused to relate to any interpretations of his work other than “the language of art” in its modernist aesthetic incarnation. In spite of clearly iconographic images in his works, Lavie insisted that these images were of no historical significance. Furthermore, the use of collage and techniques that lacked an artistic “halo” were intended, according to both Lavie and Breitberg-Semel, to erode and undermine the significance of visual images. Lavie’s students, however, continued to cultivate a preoccupation with form, as well as a continuing relationship with the modernist tradition, both of which caused problems for Lavie’s didactic separation of “form” and “content.”\n\nYair Garbuz formed a relationship with Lavie when he was just a young boy. For a number of years Lavie was Garbuz’s private teacher. Later Garbuz went from being a student to being a senior instructor at the “HaMidrasha” (School of Art). His work from these years created a link between the symbols that connected the ethos of the Zionist undertaking, as reflected in popular culture, with social and political criticism.\n\nHis two-dimensional works from the 1970s and 1980s include a mix of newspaper photos, documentary photographs, texts and other objects, combined in compositions that have no clear hierarchy. Some of his works, such as \"The Evenings (Arabs) Pass By Quietly\" (1979) and \"The Arab Village in Israel Very Much Resembles the Life of our Forefathers in Ancient Times\" (1981), criticized stereotypes rampant in Israeli society. For the cover he designed for No. 11 of the journal Siman Kriah [Exclamation Point] (May 1980), Garbuz inserted a photograph from the newspaper Davar of a self-portrait of Vincent Van Gogh captioned “Van Gogh in Tel Aviv.” Under the reproduction, Garbuz added a sort of poem, complete with nikud [vocalization] and illustrations, discussing the significance of labor. This work was one of a number of his works in which he presented his artistic activity as an artist in Israel - which he perceived as a distant and outlying place — as a kind of anarchism. Along with these two-dimensional works, Garbuz produced art videos, installations, and other forms of artistic activities in this spirit.\n\nHenry Schlesnyak, an American-born artist, juxtaposed collage with American Pop Art, and American symbolism—the most significant of which is his portrait of Abraham Lincoln – with scenes from Israeli art as reflected in various newspaper articles. Through this juxtaposition, Schlesnyak pointed out the moral aspect of artistic activity and his view of the place of Israeli art and the Israeli artist within it. Another layer of his work was composed of the “Tel Aviv” aesthetic, which played the role of critic in his works. For example reproductions of famous works of art were painted over in industrial shellac to give them the feeling of paintings by the European “Old Masters.” The “Hebrew translation” of this feeling included the devaluing of the paintings by “flashes of stains on the surface of the paintings, dirt, ‘want of matter’, thereby bringing it down to the level of what is appropriate to the experience of being here. “ In a 1980 collage, Schlesnyak glued onto plywood a newspaper picture of the writer Irving Stone, author of popular novels about artists, positioned at the front of the Tel Aviv Museum. Next to him stands Marc Scheps, Director of the museum, with his head enclosed in a circle. Above this Schlesnyak glued an article by Adam Baruch describing an exhibition of the works of Ya’acov Dorchin, a friend of Schlesnyak, with a caption composed of letterset printing.\n\nThe works of Michal Na'aman from the 1970s used photography to create collages. In these works Naaman put together various expressions emphasizing the limitations of the language of description and of vision, as well as the possibilities of imagination and the difference in visual expression. The practice of combining conflicting axioms indicated the failure or distortion of the language of description. Against the background of the visual dimension that reflected the aesthetic principles of “Want of Matter,” there appeared various representations and texts written in letterset printing or in handwriting that reflected the semiotic bankruptcy of the representation of images. Examples of this can be found in works such as “The Fish is the End of the Bird” (1977) and “The Gospel According to the Bird” (1977) in which Na'aman joined reproduced images of a fish and a bird into a kind of hybrid monster. In “Vanya (Vajezath)\" (1975) a conflict is created between the textual contents of the work with the visual contents, along with an emphasis on sexual motifs.\n\nIn spite of her feminist connections, Yehudit Levin’s works are more personal and less intellectual than the works of most of Raffi Lavie’s students. At the end of the 1970s and early 1980s, Levin created abstract compositions constructed from sawed and painted plywood, sometimes combined with photographs, then leaned against a wall. The names of these works, such as “Bicycle” (1977) and “Princess in a Palace” (1978) hint at a domestic connection. Even though these works appear in space as three-dimensional, their main interest lies in their complex relationship with the spaces seen within them. The “drawing” breaks out of the framework of the platform and flows over into space.\n\nA similar approach, without the psychological baggage, can be seen in the works of the sculptor Nahum Tevet. In his minimalist works Tevet shows an ambivalent relationship with three-dimensional space. In a late interview Tevet defined the motivation behind these works as a reaction to his studying art with Lavie. “It might be that to a certain extent this is a reaction to the place where I studied painting, in Raffi Lavie’s studio. He suggested painting in which the main interest was built around personal tensions and relationships, and I asked about the relationship between the painting as an object and the environment – the world.”\n\nHis works from that period dealt with the division and organization of work surfaces. In an installation from 1973-1974, Tevet placed white-painted plywood boards on top of chairs. The work showed the influence of the aesthetic principles of minimalist art and emphasized the temporariness of the expression of an artistic experience. In another work, “Beds” (1974), Tevet displayed rectangular, white-painted plywood boards, with legs attached to them that turned the two-dimensional “painting” into a work of sculpture. The interpretation of this work that grew up over the years required that, in addition to the formalistic aspect of the work, the biographical background of Tevet, as a former kibbutz member, needed to be taken into account. Relating to plywood as a “painting” and to its placement as a work of art reflected the ambivalent relationship of Tevet to the surface of the painting.\n\nIn 1966 Lavie joined the staff of Hamidrasha Art Teachers College in Ramat Hasharon, known as “Hamidrasha School of Art.” Around this educational institution a group of Lavie’s students, such as Michal Na’aman, Yehudit Levin, etc., grew up and began teaching there. As a group these artists formed a clear hegemony over art in the period following “New Horizons.”\n\nThe teaching method at Hamidrasha centered around the discussion of art and modern aesthetics, demoting the more traditional method of teaching art, which focused on drawing lessons opposite a model, to second place. The rational that gave rise to this pedagogical method sprung from the assumption that in a world in which art was expressed in endless new ways of execution, there was no way to learn all the new artistic techniques. Therefore the school tried to educate its art students first and foremost as “artists” and assumed that they would develop their technical skills independently, in accordance with their individual needs.\n\nA great many academic areas at Hamidrasha were subordinated to this pedagogic approach. “I reject all academic degrees and any attempt at the academization of the study of art in any form,” Lavie stated in a dialogue between him and Pinchas Cohen Gan. “I don’t think it’s possible to give out grades, and I don’t believe it’s possible to judge art.” As an answer to the inability to make judgments about art, which Lavie pointed out, the institution developed “public” criticism. Within the framework of this criticism, which was often dubbed “The Ceremony,” teachers were invited to a public discussion of their students’ work.\n\nThe “Criticism” demonstrated the centrality of the personality and the status of the teachers on the framework of the studies. Tsibi Geva, who was a student in the Hamidrasha and later became a teacher there, described Lavie as a central figure in art, through which the world of art was perceived…”We received everything through Raffi Lavie. The man controlled the flow; and he was, you could say, the authority that legislated and the authority that carried things out. He was the window onto the world; our education was acquired through the prism of his eyes.” Apart from the its teaching, Hamidrasha provided favored graduates with entrance to the “Hamidrasha School.” Within this framework, Lavie encouraged exhibitions of the school’s graduates. In May 1974 Lavie distributed a “pamphlet” in which he presented works by students who were close to him, such as Naaman, Tevet, David Ginton, etc., and aroused a storm of negative criticism. The Ross Gallery in north Tel Aviv also consistently displayed the artists of the new School. Later the artists of the School began displaying their works in the Julie M Gallery and the Givon Gallery in the center of Tel Aviv as well.\n\nThe exhibition “Want of Matter” presented the group of “Tel Aviv Artists” as the center of contemporary Israel art. In addition to representing the Socialistic-Pioneering spirit, these artists represented the secular character of Tel Aviv, under the banner of “the aesthetic, non-materialistic aspect of the Jewish tradition.” The group strengthened its sense of its own identity by forming a network of personal and professional connections among themselves. In the article, “About Raffi: Color patch, Crown. Catchup, Love” (1999), Yair Garbuz, Lavie’s student, presented his teacher in terms of his originality. “It’s not that we suddenly became the center of art… we’ve remained the provinces [...] In a certainly respect, Raffi painted and taught like a pioneer. In order for something to flourish here, it had to be carefully disguised. You couldn’t just say that maybe modernism was developing.” The period before the existence of “Want of Matter” was perceived by this group of artists as a mixture of immature explorations of abstract modernism with overtones of the romantic aesthetic, overtones which Lavie and his followers viewed as a danger capable of reducing art to something lacking in the characteristics and criteria of aesthetic judgment.\n\nThe tradition that Want of Matter created for itself attempted to follow what was happening in American and European conceptual Art. However, in contrast to them, this conceptualism was seen primarily within the framework of painting. Ariella Azoulay stated, in an analysis of the Israeli artistic scene, that this choice of painting as the dominant medium in Israeli art, was not a natural process, but rather was carefully directed by certain elements such as Sarah Breitberg-Semel, the museum and the art establishment, as well as the artists themselves. In fact, the choice of works by Breitberg-Semel for the exhibition honored works from the exhibit that were created by the same group of artists she had chosen to exhibit, but they were done using techniques other than painting. Examples of this are the video art films of Lavie and Garbuz, the mixed media works and installations of Michal Naaman, etc. Outside the museum establishment, avant-garde art such as mixed media works, installations and other conceptual projects that couldn’t be displayed at museums continued to be produced. Criticism of this kind was also heard during the exhibition. Only in the 1980s, Azoulay contends, with the weakening of the status of the central museums, did these trends, that were suppressed until then, rise to the top of Israeli art.\n\nThe attempt to present “Want of Matter” as the dominant hegemony in Israeli art, as the “center” of Israeli art, pushed many Israeli artists to the periphery of this center. Gideon Efrat, an art critic and curator set up a comparison between “Tel Aviv-ness” and the “School of New Jerusalem,” a term based on the metaphysical Christian interpretation of the city of Jerusalem. The main difference between the definition of this group and that of the “Tel Aviv School,” according to Breitberg-Semel, lay in the difference between their definitions of the status of art in relation to public space. While the “Tel Aviv” group strove to focus their art within the traditional definitions, the “Jerusalem artists” sought to draw an “eruv” – a ritual shared enclosed area – around art and life. Artists such as Gabi Klasmer and Sharon Keren (“Gabi and Sharon”) appeared in a series of performances of a political nature in Jerusalem public places; Avital Geva and Moshe Gershuni met with Yitzhak Ben-Aharon, Secretary General of the Histadrut, as an “activity” of “art.”\n\nIn contrast, the “Tel Avivans,” led by Lavie, developed a purist concept of art. In his view, art should focus on the physical boundaries of the plastic arts – on color, line, stain, and their relationship to the format of the work. In a 1973 interview, Lavie spoke about politics in art: “If an artist wants to say political things through his work, it’s his privilege. But he should know exactly what the work is called: a “placard.”\n\nIn the exhibition “Eyes of the Nation,” held at the Tel Aviv Museum in 1998, Ellen Ginton viewed the art of the period as a reaction to the political and social problems in Israeli society. This perspective undermined the traditional dichotomy that Efrat and Breitberg-Semel presented. Ginton held that this art was a response to the political and social crisis after the Yom Kippur War which continued into the 1980s. Eventually, the artists returned to more traditional artistic activity.\n\nAnother kind of criticism, political in nature, was directed against “Want of Matter” and the wide acceptance of Breitberg-Semel’s thesis. In 1991 Breitberg-Semel’s article “Want of Matter” was re-published, and she wrote a new introduction for it. In this new introduction she attempted to clarify the critical dimension of her thesis, declaring that “the generation that grew up after 1967 encountered a new ethos – the rule by occupation, with all its moral and material implications, and with all its enormous social changes, of which the bourgeois existence as the leading way of life, is only one aspect. This generation of artists, which would have difficulty freeing itself of the cultural images the exhibition bequeathed to them with regard to the dispute over local culture, would also have difficulty waving the flag of “want of matter” as the achievement that belongs to it and characterizes it. But perhaps, one day, things would change. The division in “want of matter” between “ethos” and “aethestics” is presented in the introduction as a fleeting moment, since the use that was made of it later cut it off from the social and political field in which it originated. \nIn 1993, an article by Sarah Chinski entitled “Silence of the Fish: The Local versus the Universal in the Israeli Discourse on Art” was published in the journal Theory and Criticism. The article criticized the narcissistic banner-waving of the self-pitying Tel Avivan.” Against this image of self-pity, Chinski juxtaposed the political reality that gave birth to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. “The ‘dispossessed sabra’,” writes Chinski, “has been so focused on self-pity for his imaginary losses, he hasn’t noticed that in his name massive expulsions of huge numbers of people have taken place throughout all the glorious history of the Palmach and the youth movement he has created in his heart.“\n"}
{"id": "48231463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48231463", "title": "World Press Cartoon", "text": "World Press Cartoon\n\nWorld Press Cartoon is an independent organization based in Lisbon, Portugal. Founded in 2005 the organization is known for holding one of the world's largest and most prestigious annual press cartoon contests. World Press Cartoon has also organized separate exhibitions under thematic criteria, as gender violence or environment protection. In 2017 World Press Cartoon had its 12th edition.\n\nFrom 2017, the awards ceremony is held in the Caldas da Rainha. After the contest, the prizewinning cartoons are assembled into a traveling exhibition that was already presented in Spain, France, Belgium, Mozambique, Brazil, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Romania, Mexico, United Kingdom, China and India. A catalogue presenting all the prizewinning entries is published annually in English and Portuguese.\n\nAnother primary objective of the organization is to support professional cartoonists on a wide international scale, with a special focus in the freedom of the press.\n\n\nHonourable mentions\n\n\nHonourable mentions\n\n\nHonourable mentions\n\n\n\nHonourable mentions\n\n\nHonourable mentions\n\n\nHonourable mentions\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31613828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31613828", "title": "YASI", "text": "YASI\n\nThe Young Actors Summer Institute is an arts enrichment summer programs in New England. Held annually since 2005 at the Tony Award-winning Trinity Repertory Company, in Providence, Rhode Island, YASI is taught by the theater's resident acting company and education staff. Students are able to choose from a variety of different classes, including playwriting, painting and drawing, improvisation, Shakespeare, film and more.\n\nYASI takes place during the month of July and culminates in performances featuring scene, monologues and musical theater selections. The program usually lasts five weeks, excluding weekends and holidays. The first week starts participants with age appropriate improv games and an \"audition day\"; and the last week is spent in rehearsal for a final showcase.\n\nNormal days are divided into four elective blocks and one extended period of time used for mandatory scene study, rehearsal or learning about the technical aspects of theater. The elective blocks are varied in subject matter and range from yoga to improvisation to playwriting.\n\nIn addition to the final showcase performances, there is also a full length production of a Shakepearean play done by the high school students in the 'YASI Shakes' program.\n\nIn the summer of 2011, a new mini camp was created called YASI Jr. YASI Jr. is a 5-day program giving kids too young for YASI a chance to experience what it's like to be at YASI.\n\nIn addition to normal classes, many extra events occur. Musical or theatrical guests often come to perform. Every year, there has been a rock-paper-scissors tournament and a game called \"Boom Roasted\". There is also a Lip Sync Battle every year and the winner(s) get to smash a piece of art filled with cream.\n\nThere are daily prizes. These prizes are awarded to the attendees who have helped throughout the day in various ways such as cleaning up during lunch and snack, or helping the counselors and teaching artists. Prizes vary from day to day.\n\nAt the end of the program, special participants are recognized with induction to the Gryffindor club (an homage to Gryffindor of Harry Potter).\n\n"}
