{"id": "32798519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32798519", "title": "1886 Belfast riots", "text": "1886 Belfast riots\n\nThe 1886 Belfast riots were a series of intense riots that occurred in Belfast, Ireland during the summer and autumn of 1886.\n\nIn the late 19th century Catholics began to migrate in large numbers to the prosperous Ulster Protestant city of Belfast in search of work. By the time of the riots Catholics made up over one-third of the population of the city. This migration brought with it sectarian tensions as Catholics and Protestants competed for jobs. As the minority, Catholics found themselves discriminated against in this area and were kept at the lower end of the labour market.\n\nAt this time there was a real possibility that the British government would establish a devolved Irish parliament (see: Irish Home Rule Movement). Belfast Catholics believed that a devolved Irish government would be sympathetic to their situation and end the discrimination. Belfast Protestants believed this too and feared the end of their privileged position.\n\nIn April 1886 Prime Minister William Gladstone introduced a home rule bill. On 8 June the bill was defeated in the House of Commons.\n\nThe introduction of the bill led to renewed sectarian tensions in Belfast. On 3 June a Catholic navvy sneered to a Protestant co-worker that under an Irish government Protestants would never get hired, even in Belfast. This represented the very worst fears of Protestants towards Home Rule and the story quickly spread throughout Belfast. This led to clashes between Protestant and Catholic labourers on the shipyards.\n\nThe riots intensified on 8 June, the day that the home rule bill was defeated in parliament. Celebrations were held throughout the city to celebrate the defeat. Some of those celebrating attacked Catholic homes and businesses. The police found themselves unable to cope with the situation. Reinforcements were sent in from other parts of Ireland. Most of the reinforcements were Catholic. A rumour that the reinforcements were sent by Gladstone to punish Belfast Protestants for opposing Home Rule spread throughout the city. It was encouraged by popular preachers such as Hugh Hanna. The rioters thus began to attack the police, and later soldiers. Running battles between security forces and rioters lasted until 14 June.\n\nOn 22 June the reinforcements were sent home by the city government, although some were kept as trouble was expected on 12 July, the date of annual Protestant celebrations. Trouble did indeed erupt on the 12th and, contrary to the expectations of the government, the police found themselves overwhelmed by the Protestant attackers. Reinforcements had to be sent into Belfast again and the threat of over 2,000 police officers and soldiers descending on the city caused the rioters to quit by the 14th.\n\nOn the last Saturday of July Hanna held his annual outing for the Protestant children of Belfast. This outing usually involved a trip out to the country with marching and drum along the way. Hanna agreed to comply with the city's request that he forgo the drumming and marching due to the tense situation. As the outing made its way through Belfast disappointed local Protestants joined in to march with their own drums and anti-Catholic banners. Marchers deliberately provoked the Catholics by marching into Catholic areas. Taunting quickly gave way to heavy street fighting between Catholics, Protestants and police. Bloody clashes on a par with the riots in June lasted for a few days, but low-intensity rioting continued until September.\n\nOfficially thirty-one people were killed in the riots, although George Foy, who made surgical reports on the riots, reckoned that the real death toll might have been as high as fifty. Hundreds were injured. Over four hundred arrests were made. An estimated £90,000 worth of property damage was incurred, and local economic activity was significantly compromised.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56298795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56298795", "title": "2017 Rohingya persecution in Myanmar", "text": "2017 Rohingya persecution in Myanmar\n\nThe 2017 Rohingya persecution in Myanmar began on 25 August of that year when the Myanmar military forces and local Buddhist extremists started attacking the Rohingya people and committing atrocities against them in the country's north-west Rakhine state. The atrocities included attacks on Rohingya people and locations, looting and burning down Rohingya villages, mass killing of Rohingya civilians, gang rapes, and other sexual violence.\n\nUsing statistical extrapolations (based on six pooled surveys conducted with a total of 2,434 Rohingya refugee households in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh,) Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) estimated in December 2017 that during the persecution, the military and the local Buddhists killed at least 10,000 Rohingya people. At least 392 Rohingya villages in Rakhine state were reported as burned down and destroyed, as well as the looting of many Rohingya houses, and widespread gang rapes and other forms of sexual violence against the Rohingya Muslim women and girls. The military drive also displaced a large number of Rohingya people and made them refugees. According to the United Nations reports, , over 700,000 Rohingya people had fled or had been driven out of Rakhine state who then took shelter in the neighboring Bangladesh as refugees. In December 2017, two Reuters journalists who had been covering the Inn Din massacre event were arrested and imprisoned. Foreign Secretary Myint Thu told reporters Myanmar is prepared to accept 2,000 Rohingya refugees from camps in Bangladesh in November 2018.\n\nThe 2017 persecution against the Rohingya Muslims and non-Muslims has been termed as ethnic cleansing and genocide by various United Nations agencies, International Criminal Court officials, human rights groups, and governments. British Prime Minister Theresa May and United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson called it \"ethnic cleansing\" while the French President Emanuel Macron described the situation as \"genocide\". The United Nations described the persecution as \"a textbook example of ethnic cleansing\". In late September that year, a seven-member panel of the Permanent Peoples' Tribunal found the Myanmar military and the Myanmar authority guilty of the crime of genocide against the Rohingya and the Kachin minority groups. The Myanmar leader and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi was again criticized for her silence over the issue and for supporting the military actions. Subsequently, in November 2017, the governments of Bangladesh and Myanmar signed a deal to facilitate the return of Rohingya refugees to their native Rakhine state within two months, drawing a mixed response from international onlookers.\n\nIn August 2018, the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, reporting the findings of their investigation into the August–September 2017 events, declared that the Myanmar military—the Tatmadaw, and several of its commanders (including Commander-in-chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing)—should face charges in the International Criminal Court for \"crimes against humanity\", including acts of \"ethnic cleansing\" and \"genocide,\" particularly for the August–September 2017 attacks on the Rohingya. On 24 September 2018, Jeremy Hunt, the British Foreign Secretary, held a meeting with some other foreign ministers on the sideline of the United Nations General Assembly to discuss the crisis in Rohingya.\n\nAs early as 2015, the Allard K. Lowenstein International Human Rights Clinic at Yale Law School found \"strong evidence that genocide is being committed against Rohingya.\" After eight months of analyzing whether the persecution of the Rohingya in Rakhine State satisfy the criteria for genocide, the study found that Burmese government with the help of extremist Buddhist monks were responsible for ethnic cleansing and genocide against the Rohingya.\n\nThe government announced on 25 August 2017 that 71 people (one soldier, one immigration officer, 10 policemen and 59 insurgents) had been killed overnight during coordinated attacks by up to 150 insurgents on 24 police posts and the 552nd Light Infantry Battalion army base in Rakhine State. The Myanmar Army stated that the attack began at around 1:00 AM, when insurgents armed with bombs, small arms weapons and machetes blew up a bridge. The army further stated that a majority of the attacks occurred around 3:00 AM to 4:00 AM. The ARSA claimed they were taking \"defensive actions\" in 25 different locations and accused government soldiers of raping and killing civilians. The group also claimed that Rathedaung had been under a blockade for more than two weeks, starving the Rohingya, and that the government forces were preparing to do the same in Maungdaw. According to Yanghee Lee, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights for Myanmar, at least 1,000 people had been killed in the violence since 25 August. She added that the figure is \"very likely an underestimate\". She also downplayed the chance that Myanmar generals will ever see the inside of the International Criminal Court due to <nowiki>\"powerful international defenders.\"</nowiki>\n\nSoon after the attack on security forces, the Myanmar military responded with “heavy counter-offensive”, and supported by Buddhist militia, started “clearance operations” against the Rohingya people. In the first week, at least 130 Rohingya people were killed. To save lives, the Rohingya people started fleeing Myanmar in large numbers, and tried to take shelter in the neighboring Bangladesh. The Myanmar military often opened fire with mortar shells and machine-guns on the fleeing Rohingya women and children, and dead bodies of many Rohingya people began to be washed ashore from the drowned boats as they attempted to cross the Naf River to enter Bangladesh. By the second week, at least 1000 Rohingya were killed. During the military operations, the Myanmar military burnt down and destroyed hundreds of Rohingya villages, killed thousands of Rohingya civilians, raped and sexually abused Rohingya women, and committed other crimes against humanity.\n\nIn August 2017, A Rohingya armed group brandishing guns and swords potentially massacred up to 99 Hindu women, men, and children and perpetrated unlawful killings and abductions of Hindu villagers.\n\nIn December 2017, Médecins Sans Frontières estimated that more than 10,000 Rohingya people were killed by the Myanmar military since the \"clearance operations\" started on 25 August 2017. Earlier, it was also reported that at least 6,700 to 7,000 Rohingya people including 730 children were killed in the first month alone since the crackdown started. The majority of them died from gunshot while others were burned to death in their homes. The sources described their killings as \"violent deaths\". There were also reports of mass killings of Rohingyas by the military and Buddhist vigilantes in Chut Pyin village near Rathedaung. Lewa stated that they had received reports of 130 being killed in the village. On September 7, 2017, The Guardian reported a mass killing of Rohingyas at the Tula Toli village, referred as Tula Toli Massacre. According to AP reporting, evidence has been uncovered of likely mass graves which includes time stamped mobile phone metadata indicating an August 27 date.\n\nIn February 2018, news agency Reuters uncovered a massacre event that took place in the Rakhine state's Inn Din village on 2 September 2017. It is known as Inn Din massacre. Ten Rohingya men, who were captured from the Rohingya villagers of Inn Din, were massacred by the members of Myanmar army and the Buddhist villagers who formed an \"informal militia\" to attack the Rohingya villages. The victims were taken from the hundreds of Rohingya villagers who gathered near a beach to seek safety. Reuters was able to identify all the ten victims: five of the men were fishermen, two were shopkeepers, one was an Islamic teacher, and the last two were high school students.\n\nIn September 2018, the U.N. Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar released a report stating that at least 392 Rohingya villages in Rakhine state had been razed to the ground since 25 August 2017. Earlier, Human Rights Watch in December 2017 said it had found that 354 Rohingya villages in Rakhine state were burnt down and destroyed by the Myanmar military. These destructions included thousands of structures, mainly homes used by the Rohingya Muslims. Chris Lewa, director of The Arakan Project, has blamed the security forces of burning village after village in a systematic way while also blaming Rohingya arsonists of burning the Buddhist village of Pyu Ma. A video provided to ABC News by a human rights monitor purportedly shows the village burning and in another clip of freshly dug earth mound, allegedly graves of those killed.\n\nBefore the Inn Din massacre in early September 2017, members of Myanmar military and the Buddhist villagers of Inn Din looted the Rohingya hamlets in the Inn Din village and then burned down the Rohingya houses. Several Buddhist villagers later confessed to Reuters that they set fire to the Rohingya houses with kerosene, and also took part in the massacre on 2 September. The 33rd Light Infantry Division of Myanmar Army, the 8th Security Police Battalion, and the Buddhist villagers took part in the looting which included Rohingya property, goats, cows, cattle, and motorcycles. Thant Zin Oo, the commander of the 8th Battalion, later sold the cows and the cattle in exchange for money.\n\nIn November 2017, both the UN officials and the Human Rights Watch reported that the Armed Forces of Myanmar were committing widespread gang rapes and other forms of sexual violence against the Rohingya Muslim women and girls for the last three months. Alongside the Armed Forces, the Myanmar Border Guard Police and Buddhist militias of Rakhine were also involved in these atrocities. HRW stated that these gang rapes and sexual violence were committed as part of the military's ethnic cleansing campaign while the United Nations Special Representative of the Secretary General on Sexual Violence in Conflict Pramila Patten stated that the Rohingya women and girls were made the \"systematic\" target of rapes and sexual violence because of their ethnic identity and religion. Other forms of sexual violence included sexual slavery in military captivity, forced public nudity, and humiliation. Some women and girls were raped to death while others were found carrying raw wounds and being traumatized after they had arrived in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Human Rights Watch reported of a 15-year-old girl who was ruthlessly dragged on the ground for over 50 feet and then was raped by 10 Myanmar soldiers.\n\nIn February, it was reported that the Myanmar authority was bulldozing and flattening the burnt Rohingya villages and mass graves in order to destroy the evidence of atrocities committed by the Myanmar military. These villages had been inhabited by the Rohingya people before they were burnt down by the Myanmar military during the 2017 crackdown. Some intact villages which had been emptied of their Rohingya inhabitants because of the military crackdown were also bulldozed.\n\nSince the 25 August incident, Myanmar has blocked media access and the visits of international bodies to the Rakhine state. Near Rangoon on 12 December 2017, two Reuters journalists who had been covering the refugee story were charged and imprisoned by the police for violating a 1923 colonial law related to secrecy. On 1 February 2018, a Myanmar court denied bail for the two Reuters journalists. Upon this, the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres expressed his concern and called for the release of the two journalists.\n\nAccording to the \"Mission report of OHCHR\" (released on 11 October 2017 by the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights), the Myanmar military in early August 2017 began a \"systematic\" process of driving hundreds of thousands of Rohingya from Myanmar. The report noted that \"prior to the incidents and crackdown of 25 August, a strategy was pursued to:\n\nSince 25 August 2017, a large number of Rohingya people was displaced and became refugees as a result of the military crackdown. According to the United Nations reports, , nearly 690,000 Rohingya people had fled or had been driven out of Rakhine state who then took shelter in the neighboring Bangladesh as refugees. Earlier, it was estimated that around 650,000 Rohingya Muslims had fled Myanmar, .\nIn November 2017, the government of Bangladesh signed a pact with their Myanmar counterparts to return the Rohingya refugees to their homes in the Rakhine territory. The deal arose following a diplomatic meeting on the matter between Aung San Suu Kyi and Abul Hassan Mahmud Ali, the foreign minister of Bangladesh. The accord was viewed by international commentators as a conscious effort by the Myanmar leader to address criticism over her lack of action in the conflict. This decision, coming after both the United Nations and Rex Tillerson, US Secretary of State, declared that the actions undertaken by the Burmese army against the Rohingya refugees constituted ethnic cleansing, was met with hesitation and criticism by aid groups. In August 2017, Thailand announced that it was 'preparing to receive' Rohingya refugees fleeing Myanmar. In September 2017, Nepal increased surveillance at its border with India to prevent more Rohingya refugees from entering the country. A small community of Rohingya refugees live in the capital, Kathmandu.\n\nThe 2017 persecution against the Rohingya people garnered strong criticism from all across the world, and created grave concern about the human rights issues. International communities and human rights officials have described the violence as ethnic cleansing and genocide. Soon after the security forces and Buddhist militia started \"clearance operations\", the world leaders warned the Myanmar authority to avoid civilian casualties. In late September, a seven-member panel of the Permanent Peoples' Tribunal accused Myanmar of conducting genocide against the Rohingya and the Kachin minority groups. The verdict came after a five-day trial, held at the law faculty of the University of Malaya, which examined various documentaries, expert views, and the testimony of the victims of atrocities. The tribunal also made 17 recommendations including demilitarization of the Rakhine state and the end of the discriminatory citizenship law. The United Nations' human rights chief Zeid bin Ra'ad described the persecution as \"a textbook example of ethnic cleansing\". Later, on 5 December 2017, he announced that the Rohingya persecution may constitute genocide under international human rights laws. In November, British prime minister Theresa May and United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson described the situation as \"ethnic cleansing\" while the French President Emanuel Macron called it genocide.\n\nAfter a two-year investigation into the plight of the Rohingya ethnic minority, the human rights group Amnesty International in their report described the restricted situation of the Rohingya people as \"an open-air prison\" as they are under a \"vicious system of institutionalised discrimination and segregation\" which is limiting their human rights, their freedom of movement, and their access to food, healthcare, and education. In the report, Amnesty International mentions that the Rohingya minority are confined to their villages, to townships, and to shabby camps which are cut off from the rest of Myanmar, and travel between their own villages is seriously restricted. Travel between townships is subject to a complicated process of obtaining permission, and even then those permitted to travel are routinely harassed, physically tortured or arrested. All these \"systematic\" discrimination and persecution amount to apartheid, the rights group said.\n\nAs in the 2016 incident of Rohingya persecution, the Myanmar leader and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi was again criticized her silence over the issue and for supporting the military actions. She has been stripped of her 1997 Freedom of Oxford award over \"inaction\" in handling the raging violence. Others argue that since the military retains significant autonomy and power in the government, she may be powerless to control them. Her inaction, on behalf of the Rohingya, brought a plea for action from fellow Nobel Peace Prize laureate Malala Yousafzai. Numerous people have called for Suu Kyi's Nobel Prize to be revoked. Nobel Peace Prize laureate Desmond Tutu also criticized Suu Kyi's stand to defend the military actions. \"The Economist\" criticised Suu Kyi's stance, arguing: \"the violence in Rakhine has reached such an unconscionable level that there can be no justifying continued passivity.\"\n\nDirect sanctions against the Myanmar military and penalties for firms that do business with companies linked to it, as were in place by America and other countries in the past, have been suggested as the best response to the violence. According to \"The Economist\", \"The Burmese army is not easy to influence, but economic and diplomatic isolation do seem to have played a part in persuading it to surrender power in the first place.\"\n\nAt the Vatican, Sunday, August 26, 2017, Pope Francis referred to \"sad news about the persecution of the religious minority of our Rohingya brothers,\" adding that he was praying that they would receive \"full rights\". The pope undertook a diplomatic visit to the afflicted area in late November 2017, demanding that the international community \"take decisive measures to address this grave crisis.\"\n\nProtests erupted against the Myanmar embassy in Jakarta, with a petrol bomb being thrown towards it. Indonesian president Joko Widodo sent foreign minister Retno Marsudi for \"intensive communications\" in September 2017, mentioning that concrete actions are required. Aid in form of tents, basic food and sanitation supplies were dispatched to refugee camps in Bangladesh through four Indonesian Air Force Lockheed C-130 Hercules.\n\nU.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, on September 14, 2017, said that Myanmar faces a \"defining moment,\" adding:\n\nChina's commercial and strategic involvement with the Myanmar government have complicated its role in the 2017 events. As part of its \"One Belt, One Road\" program of regional expansion, China has made heavy investments in Rakhine state—including development of China's strategically and economically critical first-ever seaport on the Indian Ocean, in the predominantly-Rohingya coastal Rakhine township of Maungdaw—providing a much-shorter route to the sea for land-locked Central and Western China. China also has indicated intentions to \"develop\" Rakhine state commercially in other ways. With China's engagement in Rakhine state requiring cooperation with the Myanmar military and government, China has used its veto power in the U.N. Security Council to protect them from any forceful U.N. action over the Rohingya issue—and has argued that the \"solution\" to the Rohingya crisis is, instead, more \"development\" in Rakhine state.\nOn 17 November 2017, China announced that it is sending its Foreign Minister Wang Yi to Myanmar and Bangladesh in a bid to shore up Beijing's influence in the region and mediate in the deepening Rohingya refugee crisis .\n\nWith the renewed genocide and exodus in August 2017, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and Jordanian prince Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein said that what Rohingyas were experiencing in Myanmar \"seems a textbook example of ethnic cleansing\", supported by condemnation from UN experts such as Yanghee Lee. This is further confirmed by UN High Commissioner for Refugees with the stipulated number of refugees in Bangladesh estimated at 700,000.\nOn 4 October 2017, the Myanmar authorities were asked by the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) and the Committee on the Rights of the Child (CRC) “to immediately stop violence in northern Rakhine State, and to promptly and effectively investigate and vigorously prosecute cases of violence against women and children.”\n\nThe office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) initiated an investigation into the August 2017 (and subsequent) events, but Myanmar's government expelled the U.N. Special Rapporteur for Human Rights in Myanmar, Yanghee Lee, and refused to allow U.N. investigators unfettered access to the conflict region to investigate. The OHCHR investigating team turned, instead, to other sources—particularly including over 800 Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh, satellite imagery, and online (internet-posted) information from within Myanmar.\n\nIn late-August 2018—a year from the start of the August 2017 events—the OHCHR published the report of their investigation into the events. They documented extensive killing, gang-rape and injury of Rohingya, particularly by the Myanmar military—the Tatmadaw—and stated that the Tatmadaw and several of its commanders (including Commander-in-chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing) should face charges in the International Criminal Court for \"crimes against humanity\", including acts of \"ethnic cleansing\" and \"genocide\" particularly for its August–September 2017 actions against the Rohingya of Myanmar.\n\nThe ASEAN member states have upheld a principle of non-interference in intra-ASEAN relations. A day before the 30th ASEAN Summit was held on April 26, 2017, Reuters reported on the Myanmar military's operations on the Rohingya in November 2016. Nonetheless, the Rohingya crisis was not on the official agenda in the Summit.\n\nHowever, leaders of ASEAN countries have begun concerns on the issue. In a meeting with other ASEAN foreign ministers on December 19, 2016, Malaysian Foreign Minister Anifah Aman called for a collective effort to resolve the crisis. In addition, in the 30th ASEAN Summit, Indonesian President Joko Widodo discussed the issue of the Rohingya crisis with Aung San Suu Kyi, the Myanma de facto leader. He was said to stress the importance of stability in Myanmar for the wider regional security.\n\nThe ASEAN states' hesitance to comment on the issue may be explained by a concern that the rise of China and its influence in Myanmar could risk ASEAN's interest in the country. Azeem Ibrahim, the author of \"The Rohingyas: Inside Myanmar's Hidden Genocide\", noted, “Myanmar’s interactions with ASEAN are perhaps indicative of its wider approach to international relations.” While ASEAN member states welcome economic opportunities with China's rise, they fear its growing influence. It has been suggested that ASEAN criticism of Myanmar's domestic crisis will lead to closer ties between China and Myanmar.\n\nAccording to Matthew Smith of the NGO Fortify Rights, “We can now say with a high level of confidence that state-led security forces and local armed residents have committed mass killings.” Smith accused the Burmese military of trying to expel all Rohingyas from the country.\n\nMuslim protests were held in various capital cities in Asian countries in late November 2016. Protests were held on September 8, 2017 across Asia in Bangladesh, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia and Pakistan in solidarity of the Rohingya people. Protests were also held by Rohingya people in Melbourne, Australia in early September 2017. Additional protests were held in the same month in Washington DC in the United States, Cape Town in South Africa, and Jammu and Kashmir in India. A protest was also planned in Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "23025991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23025991", "title": "Aburi Accord", "text": "Aburi Accord\n\nAburi Accord was reached in 1967 at a meeting attended by delegates of both the Federal Government of Nigeria (the Supreme Military Council) and the Eastern delegates, led by the Eastern Region's leader Colonel Ojukwu. The meeting was billed to be the last chance of preventing all out war. It was held between 4 and 5 January 1967.\n\nAburi, Accra Ghana was chosen as a venue because the eastern delegates led by the Governor of Eastern State Colonel Ojukwu's safety could not be guaranteed anywhere within the western or northern part of the country.\n\n\nThe following are the delegates at the Aburi Conference:\n\nOthers as follows:\n\nAburi accord is as follows: \n\nIn response to the accord, the federal government promulgated Decree No. 8, which was mainly an embodiment of the accord.\nThe accord finally broke down because of differences of interpretation on both sides. This led to the outbreak of Nigerian Civil War.\n"}
{"id": "3829518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3829518", "title": "Alianza Americana Anticomunista", "text": "Alianza Americana Anticomunista\n\nThe Alianza Americana Anticomunista (AAA, pronounced triple-A; \"American Anticommunist Alliance\") was believed to be a paramilitary far-right group mainly operating in Colombia between 1978 and 1979.\n\nContemporary accusations and declassified U.S. Embassy documents have linked the creation and operation of this group to members of a Colombian National Army battalion employing the Triple A name as a label.\n\nA 1979 report from the United States Embassy in Bogotá, Colombia details that then-General Jorge Robledo Pulido and members of the \"Charry Solano\" Battalion of Intelligence and Counterintelligence (BINCI) were directly involved in the creation of AAA. The report describes a plan intended \"to create the impression that the American Anti-communist Alliance has established itself in Colombia and is preparing to take violent action against local communists.\"\n\nIn December 1978 the Anticommunist American Alliance bombed the Colombian Communist Party Headquarters, and later the Communist Party's newspaper \"Voz Proletaria\". The bombing of the Communist Party HQ left no casualties according to the 1979 U.S. Embassy's report, which describes Triple A's contemporary activities as \"more appropriately characterized as dirty tricks\" than human rights abuses. \n\nBINCI has been accused of participating in a number of other bombings, kidnappings and assassinations against leftists and abuses of guerrilla detainees between the years of 1978 and 1979. In an open letter published on November 29, 1980 by the Mexican newspaper \"El Día\", five individuals identified as former Colombian military detail a number of activities carried out by BINCI personnel operating as Triple A. Among those implicated in the operations of Triple A are then-Lieutenant Mario Montoya Uribe, who would have participated in the bombing of \"Voz Proletaria\", and then-Lieutenant Colonel Harold Bedoya, the commander of BINCI who would have given orders to several of the personnel involved. \n\nA 1992 publication, \"El Terrorismo de Estado en Colombia\" (State Terrorism in Colombia), prepared by a coalition of human rights groups that included Catholic peace movement Pax Christi International, repeated the accusations found in the \"El Día\" article.\n\nIn 1999 the Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA) concluded that there was no evidence to support the accusations regarding General Mario Montoya Uribe's involvement in Triple A, citing the information as \"a NGO smear campaign dating back 20 years.\" This denial took place before the National Security Archive's request and subsequent declassification of the 1979 Embassy document.\n\n"}
{"id": "2668258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2668258", "title": "Arab Socialist Movement", "text": "Arab Socialist Movement\n\nThe Arab Socialist Movement (- ) also known as Arab Socialist Party, was a political party in Syria that has split into several factions since the 1960s which continue to use the same name.\n\nThe original party traced its roots back to the 1930s radical anti-capitalist, pan-Arab group led by Akram al-Hawrani, but was formally established on 5 January 1950. It merged with the Ba'ath Party in 1953, only to withdraw again in 1963. It then split into several factions: \n\n"}
{"id": "91869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91869", "title": "Ascribed characteristics", "text": "Ascribed characteristics\n\nAscribed characteristics, as used in the social sciences, refers to properties of an individual attained at birth, by inheritance, or through the aging process. The individual has very little, if any, control over these characteristics. Typical examples include race, ethnicity, gender, caste, height, and appearance. The term is apt for describing characteristics chiefly caused by \"nature\" (e.g. genetics) and for those chiefly caused by \"nurture\" (e.g. parenting during early childhood), See: Nature versus Nurture.\n\nDemography being the statistical study of populations requires the ability to differentiate between populations. Most populations self-ascribe themselves as being different than another by the creation of a country. This allows Demographers to draw lines between countries and compare them. However useful, countries have significant complex populations that require more exacting definitions. Commonly seen are uses of Race, Gender and Ethnicity. In the scope of academic demography, all of these are Social Constructs, ASCRIBED to groups or individuals for Stratification . With these theories in place, many new theories can be formed and data collected to either prove or disprove them. Ascribed characteristics can have large by-products weather perceived or not. Discussed below are Race, Gender, Social Status / Caste and Hiring / Promotion.\n\nAscribed characteristics are not always used for academic purposes. People with certain ascribed characteristics can be systematically treated with prejudice. Thus, the study of racism can be seen, at least superficially, as the study of the ways that people with a certain skin color and cultural background are systematically treated differently by society at large. Race does not entirely have a \n\nFrank van Tubergen studied the how ascribed characteristics and achieved characteristics effect their Social Capital in the article \"Personal networks in Saudi Arabia: The role of ascribed and achieved characteristics\". The article highlighted that women have less social capital than men in Saudi Arabia citing specifically that it was \"due to fewer non-family connections\". There are many arguments that stem from disagreements over the definition of what is a fact when it comes to gender, showing the fluidity of ascribed characteristics. For example, people who find homosexuality morally objectionable may attempt to justify this by insisting that homosexuals make a conscious decision about the nature of the sexual desire they experience however, it would difficult to condemn homosexuality if homosexuality was predetermined, either genetically or from early childhood. (See Sexual orientation.). Both Groups do however use the term all the same, simply ascribing different definitions to those individuals.\n\nMany different societies have had varying types of social stratification both historically and in the modern era. One of the most obvious examples is India, and its Caste System. In its essence, it was a system that ascribed sweepers the lowest status, making this one group literally untouchable. Although India officially states that discrimination against lower castes is illegal. \n\nRonald P. Dore was a British sociologist that was a specialist in the Japanese Economy. His view will be expressed here. In his largest work, \"British Factory, Japanese Factory\" , Dore investigates whether decisions on hiring and promotion, in the Japanese firm Hitachi, over a particular time were based chiefly on \"achievement\" or chiefly on \"ascribed characteristics\". The context of the discussion implied that achievement-based decisions are good, while those based on ascribed characteristics are bad. His discussion admits explicitly and, implicitly, that there are several complications to moral judgement that include:\n\n\nDore also points out that what counts as an ascribed characteristic can vary depending on context. In evaluating the fairness of hiring standards, he viewed an applicant's success in the educational system as a good approximation of achievement. Thus, he noted that hiring decisions at Hitachi, during the time of his study, were \"regulated by very strict qualification standards\" and not very significantly influenced by ascribed characteristics. When he turned to evaluate opportunities for advancement within the firm, however, Dore noted that \"educational qualifications...limit the range of posts which one can achieve\". Meaning even if one's level of achievement increases, one may still be kept down by a relative lack of achievement in the educational system. Therefore, in investigating opportunities for promotions, educational achievement \" the two become another form of ascribed characteristic.\" These additional forms of ascribed characteristics expand on the definition of an ascribed characteristic allowing for it to have more applications. \n"}
{"id": "533867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533867", "title": "Backup", "text": "Backup\n\nIn information technology, a backup, or data backup, or the process of backing up, refers to the copying into an archive file of computer data so it may be used to restore the original after a data loss event. The verb form is \"back up\" (a phrasal verb), whereas the noun and adjective form is \"backup\".\n\nBackups have two distinct purposes. The primary purpose is to recover data after its loss, be it by data deletion or corruption. Data loss can be a common experience of computer users; a 2008 survey found that 66% of respondents had lost files on their home PC. The secondary purpose of backups is to recover data from an earlier time, according to a user-defined data retention policy, typically configured within a backup application for how long copies of data are required. Though backups represent a simple form of disaster recovery and should be part of any disaster recovery plan, backups by themselves should not be considered a complete disaster recovery plan. One reason for this is that not all backup systems are able to reconstitute a computer system or other complex configuration such as a computer cluster, active directory server, or database server by simply restoring data from a backup.\n\nSince a backup system contains at least one copy of all data considered worth saving, the data storage requirements can be significant. Organizing this storage space and managing the backup process can be a complicated undertaking. A data repository model may be used to provide structure to the storage. Nowadays, there are many different types of data storage devices that are useful for making backups. There are also many different ways in which these devices can be arranged to provide geographic redundancy, data security, and portability.\n\nBefore data are sent to their storage locations, they are selected, extracted, and manipulated. Many different techniques have been developed to optimize the backup procedure. These include optimizations for dealing with open files and live data sources as well as compression, encryption, and de-duplication, among others. Every backup scheme should include dry runs that validate the reliability of the data being backed up. It is important to recognize the limitations and human factors involved in any backup scheme.\n\nAny backup strategy starts with a concept of a data repository. The backup data needs to be stored, and probably should be organized to a degree. The organisation could be as simple as a sheet of paper with a list of all backup media (CDs, etc.) and the dates they were produced. A more sophisticated setup could include a computerized index, catalog, or relational database. Different approaches have different advantages. Part of the model is the backup rotation scheme.\n\n\nRegardless of the repository model that is used, the data has to be stored on some data storage medium.\n\n\nRegardless of the data repository model, or data storage media used for backups, a balance needs to be struck between accessibility, security and cost. These media management methods are not mutually exclusive and are frequently combined to meet the user's needs. Using on-line disks for staging data before it is sent to a near-line tape library is a common example.\n\nData repository implementations include:\n\n\nA successful backup job starts with selecting and extracting coherent units of data. Most data on modern computer systems is stored in discrete units, known as files. These files are organized into filesystems. Files that are actively being updated can be thought of as \"live\" and present a challenge to back up. It is also useful to save metadata that describes the computer or the filesystem being backed up.\n\nDeciding what to back up at any given time involves tradeoffs. By backing up too much redundant data, the data repository will fill up too quickly. Backing up an insufficient amount of data can eventually lead to the loss of critical information.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA snapshot is an instantaneous function of some filesystems that presents a copy of the filesystem as if it were frozen at a specific point in time, often by a copy-on-write mechanism. An effective way to back up live data is to temporarily quiesce them (e.g., close all files), take a snapshot, and then resume live operations. At this point the snapshot can be backed up through normal methods. Snapshotting a file while it is being changed results in a corrupted file that is unusable, as most large files contain internal references between their various parts that must remain consistent throughout the file. This is also the case across interrelated files, as may be found in a conventional database or in applications such as Microsoft Exchange Server. The term fuzzy backup can be used to describe a backup of live data that looks like it ran correctly, but does not represent the state of the data at a single point in time.\n\nBackup options for data files that cannot be or are not quiesced include:\n\n\n\nNot all information stored on the computer is stored in files. Accurately recovering a complete system from scratch requires keeping track of this non-file data too.\n\nIt is frequently useful or required to manipulate the data being backed up to optimize the backup process. These manipulations can provide many benefits including improved backup speed, restore speed, data security, media usage and/or reduced bandwidth requirements.\n\nAs long as new data are being created and changes are being made, backups will need to be performed at frequent intervals. Individuals and organizations with anything from one computer to thousands of computer systems all require protection of data. The scales may be very different, but the objectives and limitations are essentially the same. Those who perform backups need to know how successful the backups are, regardless of scale.\n\n\nAn effective backup scheme will take into consideration the following situational limitations:\n\n\nMeeting the defined objectives in the face of the above limitations can be a difficult task. The tools and concepts below can make that task more achievable.\n\nTo ensure that the backup scheme is working as expected, the following best practices should be enacted:\n\n\n\"Enterprise client-server\" backup software describes a class of software applications that back up data from a variety of client computers centrally to one or more server computers, with the particular needs of enterprises in mind. They may employ a scripted client–server backup model with a backup server program running on one computer, and with small-footprint client programs (referred to as \"agents\" in some applications) running on the other computer(s) being backed up—or alternatively as another process on the same computer as the backup server program. Enterprise-specific requirements include the need to back up large amounts of data on a systematic basis, to adhere to legal requirements for the maintenance and archiving of files and data, and to satisfy short-recovery-time objectives. To satisfy these requirements, which World Backup Day (31 March) highlights, it is typical for an enterprise to appoint a backup administrator, who is a part of office administration rather than of the IT staff, and whose role is \"being the keeper of the data\".\n\nIn a client-server backup application, the server program initiates the backup activity by the client program. This is distinct from a \"personal\" backup application such as Apple's Time Machine, in which \"Time Machine runs on each Mac, independently of any other Macs, whether they're backing-up to the same destination or a different one.\" If the backup server and client programs are running on separate computers, they are connected in either a single platform or mixed platform network. The client-server backup model was originated when magnetic tape was the only financially-feasible storage medium for doing backups of multiple computers onto a single archive file; because magnetic tape is a sequential access medium, it was imperative (barring \"multiplexed backup\") that the client computers be backed up one at a time—as initiated by the backup server program.\n\nThe steady improvement in hard disk drive price per byte has made feasible a disk-to-disk-to-tape strategy, combining the speed of disk backup and restore with the capacity and low cost of tape for offsite archival and disaster recovery purposes. This, with file system technology, has led to features such as:\n\n\n\n\nTo accommodate the requirements of a backup administrator who may not be part of the IT staff with access to the secure server area, enterprise client-server software may include features such as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4817120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4817120", "title": "Belle Steel", "text": "Belle Steel\n\nBelle Steel was an 18th-century Presbyterian from Poleglass, County Antrim, Ireland.\n\nIn Cathal O'Byrne's book \"As I Roved Out\" there are a couple of chapters on Steel. She lived in a cottage in the townland of Poleglass, on the outskirts of Belfast and Lisburn, along what is now the Stewartstown Road. Her place in history comes from her sympathy for the Roman Catholic faithful who, under Penal Law, were denied their church buildings for worship. Steel was the trusted custodian of the sacred vessels used in the Liturgy, as well as a small horn used to summon the faithful to Mass. Her name is commemorated in the name of one of the roads through Poleglass. She kept watch and provided warnings to the people attending mass when the soldiers were approaching. She is depicted in many of Belfast's nationalist murals.\n\n"}
{"id": "8640413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8640413", "title": "Beta-glucan", "text": "Beta-glucan\n\nβ-Glucans (beta-glucans) comprise a group of β--glucose polysaccharides naturally occurring in the cell walls of cereals, bacteria, and fungi, with significantly differing physicochemical properties dependent on source. Typically, β-glucans form a linear backbone with 1-3 β-glycosidic bonds but vary with respect to molecular mass, solubility, viscosity, branching structure, and gelation properties, causing diverse physiological effects in animals.\n\nAt dietary intake levels of at least 3 g per day, oat fiber β-glucan decreases blood levels of LDL cholesterol and so may reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases. β-glucans are used as texturing agents in various nutraceutical and cosmetic products, and as soluble fiber supplements, but can be problematic in the process of brewing.\n\nCereal and fungal products have been used for centuries for medicinal and cosmetic purposes; however, the specific role of β-glucan was not explored until the 20th century. β-glucans were first discovered in lichens, and shortly thereafter in barley. A particular interest in oat β-glucan arose after a cholesterol lowering effect from oat bran reported in 1981.\n\nIn 1997, the FDA approved of a claim that intake of at least 3.0 g of β-glucan from oats per day decreased absorption of dietary cholesterol and reduced the risk of coronary heart disease. The approved health claim was later amended to include these sources of β-glucan: rolled oats (oatmeal), oat bran, whole oat flour, oatrim, whole grain barley and barley beta-fiber. An example of an allowed label claim: Soluble fiber from foods such as oatmeal, as part of a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol, may reduce the risk of heart disease. A serving of oatmeal supplies 0.75 grams of the 3.0 g of β-glucan soluble fiber necessary per day to have this effect. The claim language is in the Federal Register 21 CFR 101.81 Health Claims: Soluble fiber from certain foods and risk of coronary heart disease (CHD).\n\nGlucans are arranged in six-sided D-glucose rings connected linearly at varying carbon positions depending on the source, although most commonly β-glucans include a 1-3 glycosidic link in their backbone. Although technically β-glucans are chains of D-glucose polysaccharides linked by β-type glycosidic bonds, by convention not all β--glucose polysaccharides are categorized as β-glucans. Cellulose is not typically considered a β-glucan, as it is insoluble and does not exhibit the same physicochemical properties as other cereal or yeast β-glucans. \n\nSome β-glucan molecules have branching glucose side-chains attached to other positions on the main D-glucose chain, which branch off the β-glucan backbone. In addition, these side-chains can be attached to other types of molecules, like proteins, as in polysaccharide-K.\n\nThe most common forms of β-glucans are those comprising D-glucose units with β-1,3 links. Yeast and fungal β-glucans contain 1-6 side branches, while cereal β-glucans contain both β-1,3 and β-1,4 backbone bonds. The frequency, location, and length of the side-chains may play a role in immunomodulation. Differences in molecular weight, shape, and structure of β-glucans dictate the differences in biological activity.\n\nβ-glucans form a natural component of the cell walls of bacteria, fungi, yeast, and cereals such as oat and barley. Each type of beta-glucan comprises a different molecular backbone, level of branching, and molecular weight which affects its solubility and physiological impact. One of the most common sources of β(1,3)D-glucan for supplement use is derived from the cell wall of baker’s yeast (\"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\"). β-glucans found in the cell walls of yeast contain a 1,3 carbon backbone with elongated 1,6 carbon branches. Other sources include seaweed, and various mushrooms, such as lingzhi, shiitake, chaga, and maitake, which are under preliminary research for their potential immune effects.\n\nIn the diet, β-glucans are a source of soluble, fermentable fiber – also called \"prebiotic fiber\" – which provides a substrate for microbiota within the large intestine, increasing fecal bulk and producing short-chain fatty acids as byproducts with wide-ranging physiological activities. This fermentation impacts the expression of many genes within the large intestine, which further affects digestive function and cholesterol and glucose metabolism, as well as the immune system and other systemic functions.\nCereal β-glucans from oat, barley, wheat, and rye have been studied for their effects on cholesterol levels in people with normal cholesterol levels and in those with hypercholesterolemia. Intake of oat β-glucan at daily amounts of at least 3 grams lowers total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels by 5 to 10% in people with normal or elevated blood cholesterol levels. \n\nOats and barley differ in the ratio of trimer and tetramer 1-4 linkages. Barley has more 1-4 linkages with a degree of polymerization higher than 4. However, the majority of barley blocks remain trimers and tetramers. In oats, β-glucan is found mainly in the endosperm of the oat kernel, especially in the outer layers of that endosperm.\n\nEnterocytes facilitate the transportation of β(1,3)-glucans and similar compounds across the intestinal cell wall into the lymph, where they begin to interact with macrophages to activate immune function. Radiolabeled studies have verified that both small and large fragments of β-glucans are found in the serum, which indicates that they are absorbed from the intestinal tract. M cells within the Peyer’s patches physically transport the insoluble whole glucan particles into the gut-associated lymphoid tissue.\n\nAn assay to detect the presence of (1,3)-β--glucan in blood is marketed as a means of identifying invasive or disseminated fungal infections. This test should be interpreted within the broader clinical context, however, as a positive test does not render a diagnosis, and a negative test does not rule out infection. False positives may occur because of fungal contaminants in the antibiotics amoxicillin-clavulanate, and piperacillin/tazobactam. False positives can also occur with contamination of clinical specimens with the bacteria \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\", and \"Alcaligenes faecalis\", which also produce (1→3)β--glucan. This test can aid in the detection of Aspergillus, Candida, and Pneumocystis jirovecii. This test cannot be used to detect Mucor or Rhizopus, the fungi responsible for mucormycosis, as they do not produce (1,3)-beta--glucan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1723031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723031", "title": "Body cavity search", "text": "Body cavity search\n\nA body cavity search, also known simply as a cavity search, is either a visual search or a manual internal inspection of body cavities for prohibited materials (contraband), such as illegal drugs, money, jewelry, or weapons. Body cavities used for concealment include nostrils, ears, mouth, navel, penis (urethra and foreskin) or vagina, and rectum. It is far more invasive than the standard strip search that is typically performed on individuals taken into custody, either upon police arrest or incarceration at a jail, prison, or psychiatric hospital. Often the procedure is repeated when the person leaves the institution.\n\nBody cavity searches may also be conducted at some international border crossings such as the U.S. Customs and Border Protection when they suspect international travelers of hiding contraband—such as drugs—in their alimentary canal (digestional tract).\n\nMany articles of contraband are concealable in the body's cavities, via means such as insertion into the rectum. Illegal drugs are often found in condoms and temporarily stowed in the colon, and cylinders such as cigar tubes are used to hide money, intravenous syringes, and knives. Duplicate handcuff keys could be concealed in many body orifices, such as in the nasal passages or underneath the tongue.\n\nIn a thorough \"visual body cavity\" search, a flashlight is used to illuminate common bodily areas, including the nostrils, ears, mouth, navel, penis (urethra and foreskin) or vulva, and buttocks. Generally, the detainee is required to cooperate with manipulating these body parts as they are examined.\n\nSquatting is sometimes instructed during the visual search, and prolonged holding of a squat can be demanded; squats are sometimes demanded while standing over a mirror (so that the observer has an improved view). The person may be asked to “squat and cough,” with the aim of dislodging an object stored in the rectum or vagina.\n\nDuring \"manual body cavity\" searches, an inmate is temporarily transferred to an offsite clinic to be examined by a licensed physician of the same gender; body orifices are probed using fingers or instruments. The circumstances in which these inspections may be done are often restricted, such as on individuals refusing to offer to consent to a visual body cavity search for reasons other than anxiety or in situations where there is a strong evidence to suspect the presence of contraband, and require a court order. \nAs cavity searches have proven as an ineffective strategy in the total prevention of smuggling objects as it cannot detect objects in the intestines or stomach, as well as taking into consideration the intrusive nature and inherently humiliating or degrading procedure, it has become fairly normal for authorities to instead isolate individuals in a monitored environment until they pass excreta and/or x-ray the individual's pelvic area as it is less invasive and psychologically damaging.\n\nSome inmates and human rights activists argue that body cavity searches are done not so much to stop the flow of contraband but rather to harass and humiliate detainees. A visual inspection of the rectum will not reveal objects concealed deeply inside. Likewise, it is possible to circumvent detection during manual body cavity searches. In some instances, suspects swallow packages of drugs protected by condoms and allow them to pass through their digestive tract. Only diagnostic imaging will reveal the concealed contraband, invalidating the body cavity search.\n\nBecause these searches are highly invasive and greatly compromise an individual’s right of privacy, the legality of visual and manual body cavity searches is frequently contested.\n\nIn the United States, \"Bell v. Wolfish\" is the benchmark case on this issue. In its judgment of the case, the U.S. Supreme Court established a standard of reasonable grounds for performing cavity searches. Among these are security concerns at prisons. Such searches are generally governed by the Fourth Amendmendment to the Constitution of the United States, which prohibits searches without probable cause. \n\nIn the UK, cavity searches are not carried out upon entry to prisons, although new prisoners are required to perform squats as part of their strip-search. Though said prisoners may be visually searched, prison staff do not have the power to carry out cavity searches.\n\nLaw enforcement officers are not allowed to conduct cavity searches or strip searches in Pakistan. Any officer who conducts a cavity search or strip search can be sentenced up to 4 years in prison and given a Rs.7500 fine.\n\nThe body cavity search is frequently used as a joke in comedies such as the movie \"Beavis and Butt-head Do America\" and \"Seinfeld\", due to its humiliating, uncomfortable, and invasive nature. Generally, it adds to the suffering of a comedic foil. It is generally not depicted explicitly, but implied by the donning of a lubricated glove by a searcher. It is similar to the use of the rectal examination in this regard.\n\n"}
{"id": "4101094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4101094", "title": "Caladrius", "text": "Caladrius\n\nThe Caladrius, according to Roman mythology, is a snow-white bird that lives in the king's house. It is said to be able to take the sickness into itself and then fly away, dispersing the sickness and healing both itself and the sick person. The caladrius legend formed part of medieval bestiary materials, which typically provided a Christian moralization for the animals they discussed.\n\nIt has been theorized that the caladrius is based on a real bird. Due to descriptions of it being completely white with no black on it, it is possible that it was based on the dove, or possibly some sort of water bird such as the heron. Louis Reau believes it was most likely a white plover.\n\nMedieval interpretations focused on the diagnostic potential of the bird: if it looks into the face of a sick person, the person will live; if it looks away, the person will die. This is compatible with the idea that the caladrius' look draws the sickness into itself; the bird is then said to fly up to the sun, where the disease is burned up and destroyed. In the Christian moralization, the caladrius represents Christ, who is pure white without a trace of the blackness of sin. The bird shows how Christ turns away from unrepentant sinners and casts them off; but those to whom he turns his face, he makes whole again. Sometimes this moral is used specifically against the Jews to describe how, because the Jews did not believe, Christ turned his face from them and toward the Gentiles, taking away and carrying their sins to the cross.\n\nIn the \"Saturday Night Live\" sketch, \"Theodoric of York, Medieval Barber\", the title character (played by Steve Martin), uses a caladrius (portrayed by a live bird, most likely some form of dove or pigeon) in an attempt to diagnose a patient. The difficulties of using live animals on live television provided most of the humor for the few seconds of the bird's appearance.\n\nIn \"\", a myth unit available to the Atlanteans was the \"Caladria,\" which served as a flying scout and a healer, though it more closely resembled an angel than a bird.\n\nA song dedicated to the Caladrius (\"Pasărea Calandrinon\") appears on the album \"Cantafabule\", released in 1975 by Romanian rock group \"Transsylvania Phoenix\".\n\nA Japanese WebNovel titled \"Kaifuku Jutsushi no Yarinaoshi ~ Sokushi Mahou to Skill Copy no Choetsu Heal\" or \"The Redo of a Healing Magician ~ Transcendental Healing of Instant Death Magic and Skill Copying\" mentions it as a monster which is considered a God by a demon race tribe. It has the power to devour diseases and also spread them.\n\nIn \"Hollow Earth\" (2012), by John and Carole Barrowman, the first book of the Hollow Earth Trilogy, the caladrius is a mythical bird that can see the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34338169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34338169", "title": "CarWings", "text": "CarWings\n\nCarWings, renamed NissanConnect in 2015, and also branded as Infiniti InTouch is a vehicle telematics service offered by the Nissan Motor Company to drivers in Japan, the United States, Canada, Great Britain, and most other countries where the LEAF is sold. It provides mobile connectivity for on-demand traffic information services and internet provided maps displayed inside select Nissan vehicles. The service began in December 1997, having been installed in the 1997 Nissan Cedric, Nissan Gloria, Nissan President, Nissan Cima and the Nissan Elgrand.\n\nThe subscription service replaces the need to periodically update in-car navigation systems that use CD, or DVD installed maps that must be updated with the latest information. The maps are sent by internet connections established through the vehicles TCU (telematics control unit), unlike other Nissan vehicles that use the driver's cell phone to connect to their data services.\n\nStarting October 2006\n\nThe services offered vary on the version of the navigation system installed in the vehicle.\n\nThis feature offers the most efficient route based on various conditions between the point of departure and the destination. The objective of this feature is to offer a predetermined route that will enable the driver to arrive with the least amount of interruptions, taking into account any factors that could contribute to a delay in arriving in the least amount of driving time. The VICS (Vehicle Information and Communication System) feature is a service offered only in Japan that provides traffic information and is broadcast digitally on FM radio frequencies.\n\nBy selecting this feature, the system will connect you to a call center, where a destination can be sent to your vehicle by an operator, which can be done while the vehicle is moving. Other information available includes current weather information, a search for restaurants as well as other features. If the caller is unsure of some of the details needed, the live operator can make suggestions or offer assistance in numerous categories.\n\nSome of the services available include traffic and weather information, horoscopes, including sports scores and game status. The information is then displayed on the screen. The downloaded text, and navigation can be read audibly by the navigation system. Starting September 20, 2006, CARWINGS was made available to subscribers on their home computers, by registering the URL of a site that offers RSS, which is then relayed to a separate \"information channel\" that is also displayed.\n\nInstalled in conjunction with HDD navigation, this service began in November 2006. The telemetry is uploaded via mobile phones, and the Nissan Vehicle Information Center collects and analyzes statistical system to deliver results as traffic information. The vehicles position is then complemented by the VICS service to display the fastest route. The implementation is very similar to the \"Floating car\" system offered by Honda's Internavi service.\nAs of June 2007, the vehicles listed below were offered this particular service.\n\nInstalled in HDD navigation, and Service began in November 2006. \nThis service offers entertainment, shopping and leisure activities available relative to the current vehicles position and is downloaded automatically. It offers voice suggestions and directions to various locations.\n\nInstalled in HDD navigation, and Service began in November 2006.\nProvide location and time automatically according to the above services listed.\n\nWhen a new car is purchased at Japanese Nissan dealers, the navigation service is optional, registration for the service was free for three years from April 2008 operator services are free. After the free period ends, the service is available for ¥ 3,150 per year. The data connection subscription is an additional fee, provided by mobile phone communication services from telecom company WILLCOM subscription service \"dedicated service for CARWINGS Navigation System\". Softbank in 2010 since January, and flat-rate only communicate with the car navigation system at 210 yen per month to charge regular packets \"Navigation Plan\".\n\nMost of the Nissan vehicles (excluding commercial vehicles, some trucks) manufacturers standard or available in the navigation support options that are set by dealers. However, the feature can be used by different types of cars and navigation. Also, Suzuki for certain models (Grand Vitara etc.) have also been adopted.\n\nSince September 2008, Sanyo navigation system also added support in some models of their \"Gorilla\" product line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35129968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35129968", "title": "Ceasefires in Myanmar", "text": "Ceasefires in Myanmar\n\nCeasefires in Myanmar have been heavily utilized by the Burmese government as a policy to contain ethnic rebel groups and create tentative truces. The first ceasefire was arranged by the State Law and Order Restoration Council in 1989, specifically spearheaded by Khin Nyunt, then the Chief of Military Intelligence, with the Kokang-led National Democratic Alliance Army, which had recently split from the Communist Party of Burma due to internal conflicts.\n\nThe internal conflict in Myanmar began after the country's independence in 1948, as successive central governments of Myanmar (or Burma) fought myriad ethnic and political rebellions. Some of the earliest insurgencies were by Burmese-dominated \"multi-colored\" leftists, and by the Karen National Union (KNU). The KNU fought to carve out an independent Karen state from large swaths of Lower Myanmar. Other ethnic rebellions broke out in the early 1960s after the central government refused to consider a federal style government. By the early 1980s, politically oriented armed insurgencies had largely withered away, but ethnic-based insurgencies remained active during the conflict.\n\nIn the 1980s, rebel groups controlled most of the country's periphery. The two major organisations fighting against the Burma Socialist Programme Party-led government, were two umbrella groups, the pro-Chinese Communist Party of Burma (allied to local Kokang Chinese, Wa and Shan groups), based along the Chinese-Burmese border; and the pro-West National Democratic Force (made up of ethnic Mon, Karen, Karenni and Shan opposition groups), based along the Thai-Burmese border.\n\nBy the late 1980s, the Communist Party of Burma (CPB) had weakened considerably, because of waning Chinese financial support and internal strife. During the 1988 Uprising, the CPB failed to seize the opportunity to invoke political change. A month later, the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC), a council of military men, staged a coup d'etat. Consequently, ethnic Wa and Kokang armed forces led a mutiny against CPB, forming the United Wa State Party (UWSP) and the National Democratic Alliance Army (NDAA) respectively. SLORC used this opportunity to arrange ceasefires with the armed rebel groups that had just mutinied, under a policy designed by Khin Nyunt, who was then the Chief of Military Intelligence. The deal fell short of its nationwide billing, with seven of the fifteen armed groups invited declining to sign because of disagreements over who the process should include, and ongoing distrust of Myanmar's semi-civilian government and its still-powerful military.\n\nGovernment troops heavily used four cuts counter-insurgency tactics in ethnic areas in the 1990s. Most ethnic groups became armed after the first military coup in 1962 and successive military governments used four cuts counter insurgency policy in ethnic areas. This policy involved: the cut off communications among rebel armed groups as well as local people; the cut off of information among people; the cut off of trade route in designated territories; searches and the destruction of any possible supplies to cut off these areas. On the other hand, the military government forced ethnic groups to sign ceasefire agreements with ethnic rebels groups, while government troops were trying to root out their main bases in 1990s. In meanwhile, ethnic minorities’ political parties which won seats in 1990 elections, and formed the second largest pro-democracy block after NLD, were severely oppressed in cities. By the end of the century, there were twenty armed opposition groups had cease fire agreements with governments. However, the government did not hold political discussions with these groups or winning political parties. Therefore, some ethnic groups continued their armed struggle against the government. The ethnic populations suffered the most the result of long-standing hostilities with the central government. They have been treated as enemies of the state and second class citizens \n\nThe signed ceasefire agreements have been nothing more than temporary military truces to suspend fighting and preserve the status quo, allowing the rebel groups to retain administrative control of their territories. Weaker or splinter rebel groups typically forfeit their territories to the government. Most agreements simply stipulated that the groups would be allowed to retain their arms and territories until the promulgation of a new constitution.\n\nAs part of the ceasefires, the government began the Border Area Development Programme in 1989, which became a ministry-level body in 1992, as the Ministry for the Progress of Border Areas and National Races and has built road infrastructure, schools, and hospitals in rebel-occupied territories.\n\nOn 31 March 2015, Burmese President Thein Sein signed a nationwide ceasefire draft along with many ethnic leaders and government officials.\n\nIn April 2009, Lieutenant General Ye Myint led a government entourage to meet with Kokang, Shan and Wa insurgent groups, to discuss plans to create \"collective security\" formed by them and under the command of the Tatmadaw, which would eventually lead to the creation of the Border Guard Forces. In 2009, four of the insurgent groups, the Democratic Karen Buddhist Army, the Kachin Defence Army (4th Brigade of the KIA), the New Democratic Army - Kachin (NDA-K), and the Pa-O National Organisation/Army (PNO/A), accepted the transition plan's terms and transformed into BGF groups.\n\nSince 1989, the Burmese government has signed the following ceasefire agreements\n"}
{"id": "3239886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3239886", "title": "Central Hindi Directorate", "text": "Central Hindi Directorate\n\nThe Central Hindi Directorate (), New Delhi is the department, under the Ministry of Human Resource Development (India), responsible for promotion of Standard Hindi. It also regulates the use of Devanagari script and Hindi spelling in India. In keeping with the instructions of , the Central Hindi Directorate of was established. There are four regional offices situated at Chennai, Hyderabad, Guwahati and Kolkata.\n\n"}
{"id": "48351903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48351903", "title": "Democratic Choice (Dominican Republic)", "text": "Democratic Choice (Dominican Republic)\n\nDemocratic Choice (Spanish: Opción Democrática, OD) is a centre-left political party founded in 2015 by Minou Tavárez Mirabal and other volunteers .\n\nDemocratic Choice (OD) was announced as a result of Mirabal's split from the Dominican Liberation’s Party in a public letter to the media.\n\nDemocratic Choice is a community of Dominican citizens without restrictions based on socioeconomic status, religious beliefs, ethnic, gender or any another condition. It favors the construction of an able democratic society to exhibit humanity's highest aspirations and to satisfy the spiritual needs and materials of the Dominican people in a surrounding of fraternity, freedom and justice.\n\nIts symbol is an O and a D that turn into a flower.\n\nIts colors are blue, yellow, green and red.\n"}
{"id": "1644945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1644945", "title": "Eduard Streltsov", "text": "Eduard Streltsov\n\nEduard Anatolyevich Streltsov (, 21 July 1937 – 22 July 1990) was a footballer from the Soviet Union who played as a forward for Torpedo Moscow and the Soviet national team during the 1950s and 1960s. A powerful and skilful attacking player, he scored the fourth-highest number of goals for the Soviet Union and has been called \"the greatest outfield player Russia has ever produced\". He is sometimes dubbed \"the Russian Pelé\".\n\nBorn and raised in east Moscow, Streltsov joined Torpedo at the age of 16 in 1953 and made his international debut two years later. He was part of the squad that won the gold medal at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics, and came seventh in the 1957 Ballon d'Or. Early the next year his promising career was interrupted by a rape scandal. The 20-year-old Streltsov was accused of raping a woman shortly before the 1958 World Cup; told he could still play if he admitted his guilt, he confessed, despite inconclusive evidence against him. He was instead convicted and sentenced to twelve years in the Gulag system of forced labour camps.\n\nStreltsov was released after five years in the camps and in 1965 he resumed his career with Torpedo Moscow. In the first season of his comeback, the club won the Soviet championship; in 1968 Torpedo won the Soviet Cup. Streltsov was restored to the Soviet national team in 1966, and in 1967 and 1968 named Soviet Footballer of the Year. By the time of his retirement in 1970 he had pioneered innovations such as the back-heeled pass, which became known in Russia as \"Streltsov's pass\". He died in Moscow in 1990. Six years later, Torpedo renamed their home ground \"Eduard Streltsov Stadium\" in his honour. In the 21st century, statues of Streltsov stand outside the stadium bearing his name and the Luzhniki Olympic Complex in Moscow.\n\nEduard Anatolyevich Streltsov was born in Perovo, an eastern district of Moscow, on 21 July 1937, the son of Anatoly Streltsov, a front-line soldier and intelligence officer, and Sofia Frolovna. Anatoly did not return to the family following the Second World War, instead choosing to settle alone in Kiev; Sofia therefore raised her son on her own, working at the Fraser Cutting Instruments Factory to support Eduard and herself. As a result, Streltsov had a modest upbringing, the highlights of which were playing football and following his favoured team, Spartak Moscow.\n\nThe factory recognised his talent from a young age: Streltsov became the Fraser Factory football team's youngest ever player when he was 13 years old. Three years later in 1953, a friendly match was organised between Fraser and a youth team from Torpedo Moscow. Streltsov impressed the Torpedo coach, Vasily Provornov, and after befriending him, left Fraser to play for Torpedo.\n\nAged 16, Streltsov made his debut for Torpedo during the 1954 season, appeared in every league game and scored four goals. The team finished ninth in the league, a drop from third the previous year. In his second season Streltsov was the league's most prolific goalscorer, scoring 15 goals in 22 games as his side rose to fourth place. Streltsov was selected for the Soviet national team for the first time in 1955, halfway through the season; his debut came in a friendly match against Sweden in Stockholm on 26 June, when he scored a hat-trick within the first 45 minutes as the Swedish team was defeated 6–0. On his second appearance, a friendly home game against India, he scored three goals again. A further game in Hungary and a goal against France meant that by the start of 1956, Streltsov had scored seven goals for the Soviet Union in four matches. After scoring in a match against Denmark in April 1956, he missed three international matches before returning in September with a goal after three minutes in a 2–1 away victory over West Germany. Streltsov continued to score regularly for Torpedo, managing 12 league goals during the 1956 season, but appeared in two successive defeats for the Soviets before they travelled in November 1956 to the Olympic Games in Melbourne. Streltsov scored three goals in a 16–2 victory over Australia in an unofficial match on 15 November before scoring a late winning goal in the first tournament match against the United Team of Germany nine days later. The Soviets required a replay to overcome Indonesia in the quarter-finals and met Bulgaria in the semi-final.\n\nThe match finished 0–0 after 90 minutes, and with defender Nikolai Tishchenko and Streltsov's fellow Torpedo forward Valentin Ivanov both injured, the Soviet team had only nine fit players when Bulgaria scored early in extra time. Streltsov's performance was later described by journalist Jonathan Wilson as \"magnificent\"; he scored an equaliser after 112 minutes and then set up Boris Tatushin of Spartak Moscow four minutes later to score the winning goal. Streltsov missed the final against Yugoslavia as the team manager, Gavriil Kachalin, believed the two forward players should be club team-mates; as Ivanov was unfit, Streltsov was dropped as well. Nikita Simonyan, who took his place, offered Streltsov his gold medal following a 1–0 victory over the Yugoslavs, an offer which the Torpedo player refused, saying \"Nikita, I will win many other trophies\". Streltsov received two votes in the 1956 Ballon d'Or.\n\nStreltsov scored the first goal in a 2–0 win in a World Cup qualifying play-off match in Poland which meant the Soviet Union qualified for the 1958 World Cup. At club level, he scored 12 goals in 15 league matches during the 1957 season. Torpedo, never league champions and traditionally overshadowed by local rivals such as CSKA, Dynamo and Spartak, finished as runners-up of the Soviet Top League. At the end of that season, Streltsov came seventh in the 1957 Ballon d'Or, gaining 12 votes; by the start of the World Cup year, 1958, his international record stood at 18 goals in 20 games. Streltsov scored five goals in the first eight league matches of the 1958 Top League season, and appeared in a 1–1 friendly draw with England in Moscow on 18 May 1958.\n\nStreltsov was known for womanising, drinking heavily and leading an extravagant life outside of football, as well as for wearing his hair in the British \"Teddy Boy\" style. As a key player for his club and for the Soviet national side, these traits combined to create an impression in government circles that, in Wilson's words, \"Streltsov was becoming rather too much of a celebrity\". The problem was brought to a head by an alleged relationship between the footballer and Svetlana Furtseva, the 16-year-old daughter of the first female Politburo member Ekaterina Furtseva. With the young Svetlana besotted by the 19-year-old Torpedo forward, her mother first met him at a Kremlin ball held early in 1957 to celebrate the Olympic victory of 1956. Furtseva suggested he might marry her daughter, to which Streltsov replied \"I already have a fiancée and I will not marry her [Svetlana].\" While drunk, he was later heard to remark either \"I would never marry that monkey\" or \"I would rather be hanged than marry such a girl\" (both quotes were reported), humiliating Furtseva, a minister close to Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev.\n\nStreltsov became secretly engaged to Alla Demenko before leaving for the Olympics, and the couple married on 25 February 1957, halfway through preparations for the Soviet season. The Department of Soviet Football criticised both the player and his club over the timing of the ceremony. The Communist Party also seemed to distrust him, considering him a possible defector after he attracted the interest of French and Swedish clubs during tours overseas with Torpedo. His file in the party archives included the comment: \"[a]ccording to a verified source, Streltsov said to his friends in 1957 that he was always sorry to return to the USSR after trips abroad.\" After he was sent off during a game in Odessa in April 1957, the official government sports newspaper \"Sovetsky Sport\" published an article about him titled \"This is not a hero\" as well as letters purportedly written by members of the proletariat, which described Streltsov as an \"example of the evils of western imperialism\".\nA week after appearing against England in a warm-up match in Moscow for the 1958 World Cup, Streltsov was invited to a party by a Soviet military officer, Eduard Karakhanov, to be held on 25 May. Streltsov and the rest of the Soviet squad were on a pre-World Cup training camp at Tarasovka, just outside Moscow, but the team had been given the day as holiday. At the end of such days, the players had to report to the authorities at Dynamo Stadium at 4:30 pm, but Streltsov and two team-mates, Spartak players Mikhail Ogonkov and Boris Tatushin, ignored this rule and went to the party anyway. Held at Karakhanov's dacha, it was also attended by a 20-year-old woman named Marina Lebedeva, whom Streltsov had never met. The following morning, Streltsov, Ogonkov and Tatushin were all arrested and charged with raping her.\n\nJournalist Kevin O'Flynn writes that since heavy drinking had taken place at the party, the evidence against Streltsov was \"confused and contradictory\", even from Lebedeva herself. But the Soviet team coach, Gavriil Kachalin, claimed shortly before Streltsov's death that influence from high up in the Communist Party dictated that the player could not be helped; Kachalin said that police told him of Khrushchev's personal involvement, fuelled by a grudge held by Furtseva. According to Soviet Union team-mate Nikita Simonyan, speaking in 2006, Streltsov wrote home to his mother \"saying he was taking the blame for someone else\". Streltsov and Lebedeva did sleep together, Simonyan said, and he did not believe their meeting had been set up, but he was unsure about whether or not Streltsov had raped her. Simonyan proposed that consensual sex could have been twisted into a rape accusation by \"the system\", which he said bore ill will towards the Torpedo forward. However, in the same interview Simonyan revealed incriminating photographs of both Lebedeva and Streltsov from the time of the trial, including one in which the Torpedo player's face \"was streaked from nose to cheekbone with three parallel scratches\". \"[T]here is the possibility that the photographs were doctored or the injuries inflicted at a later date\", Wilson comments, \"but Soviet justice rarely required such damning evidence.\" Streltsov's wife of just over a year, Alla, filed for divorce soon after the accusations were made. Apart from Streltsov himself, the only members of the team present at his trial were Ogonkov and Tatushin, who appeared as witnesses.\n\nStreltsov confessed to the crime after being told this would allow him to keep his place in the Soviet team for the 1958 World Cup. This did not happen, however; far from remaining in the national side, Streltsov was sentenced to twelve years in the forced labour camps of the Gulag, and barred from ever returning to professional football of any kind. Plans for a march by 100,000 workers at Moscow's ZiL car factory, the base of the Torpedo club, to show support during the trial, were abandoned when Streltsov was sentenced before the march could be arranged. Ogonkov and Tatushin, meanwhile, were banned from playing any kind of organised football for three years, and barred from representing the USSR for life. In the camp where he was incarcerated, Streltsov was initially victimised by a young criminal who inflicted so much physical harm on him that he spent four months in the prison hospital, suffering from injuries caused by blows from either an \"iron bar or a shoe heel\". Camp authorities later started to include Streltsov in football matches to calm down the inmates in times of trouble; one prisoner, Ivan Lukyanov, later said: \"[w]e loved Streltsov, we believed he would return to football. And not only us.\"\n\nMeanwhile, the Soviet team travelled to Sweden for the World Cup without Streltsov, Ogonkov or Tatushin. The world's press claimed that two of the competing teams were severely weakened: England by the Munich air disaster, and the Soviets by the loss of Streltsov. The Soviets reached the quarter-finals, losing 2–0 to hosts Sweden, a team defeated 6–0 by the Soviet Union during Streltsov's 1955 debut. Without Streltsov, Torpedo dropped from their second-place finish in 1957 to seventh in 1958, though the team also reached the Soviet Cup final before losing to Spartak. Streltsov's place as the club's leading scorer was taken by the 21-year-old forward Gennadi Gusarov, who had turned professional with Torpedo during 1957. The team rose to fifth in 1959 before winning the Double of Top League and Cup during the following year, with Gusarov leading the league in goals with 20. Torpedo then finished as runners-up in both competitions in 1961, with Gusarov scoring 22. Two mid-table finishes followed as Gusarov was sold to city rivals Dynamo between the 1962 and 1963 seasons, but Torpedo once again came second in 1964, losing a championship play-off against Dinamo Tbilisi after the two clubs finished equal on points.\n\nStreltsov was released on 4 February 1963, five years into his twelve-year sentence, and owing to the ban from professional play began to split his time between work at the ZiL factory and the study of automotive engineering at the attached technical college. After failing to patch up his differences with Alla, he married Raisa Mikhailovna in September 1963. He started to play for the amateur factory team, which caused it to attract large crowds, both at home and away. When the ZiL side travelled to Gorky for an away match late in the 1964 season, the team's coach received orders from above not to play Streltsov, something which spectators noticed immediately when the match started; during the first half, they began to riot and threatened to burn down the stadium, chanting Streltsov's name. Worried that the angry crowd might go through with this, the Gorky factory chief ordered the ZiL coach to send Streltsov out for the second half. On stepping onto the field, the former Gulag prisoner received a standing ovation.\n\nWith Streltsov in the team, ZiL topped the factory league after winning all 11 matches. Although he was not allowed to play for Torpedo, Streltsov attended matches at his old club throughout the season. In October 1964, Khrushchev was replaced as the Communist Party's First Secretary by Leonid Brezhnev, who shortly after taking office received a letter signed by tens of thousands of people, including heroes of Socialist Labour and national and regional Supreme Soviet members, requesting the reversal of Streltsov's professional ban. Some party members were wary of a potential comeback, fearing that Streltsov's inclusion in a Torpedo squad that regularly travelled to Western Europe could lead to an international incident, but Brezhnev repealed the ban, arguing that as a free man Streltsov should be able to use his trained profession. He was cleared to return to Torpedo before the 1965 season.\n\nStreltsov was enthusiastically welcomed back by supporters. Although he had lost some of his strength and agility, his footballing intelligence was still intact; his presence helped Torpedo to win the 1965 Soviet championship, with Streltsov scoring 12 goals from 26 league matches. At the end of the season, he came second in the voting for the Soviet Footballer of the Year behind Torpedo team-mate Valery Voronin. It was the second time that Torpedo had won the league; the club had won its first title five years earlier, during Streltsov's imprisonment. Streltsov made his debut in continental club competition on 28 September 1966, playing in a 1–0 defeat away to Inter Milan in the European Cup. He was recalled to the Soviet national team on 16 October 1966 in a 2–0 home defeat against Turkey, and scored the first international goal of his comeback a week later in a 2–2 draw with East Germany. An appearance in a 1–0 away defeat against Italy followed two weeks later. Torpedo reached the final of the Soviet Cup in 1966, but lost 2–0 to Dynamo. Streltsov matched his previous seasonal tally of 12 league goals during the 1966 Top League season.\n\nStreltsov successfully re-established himself in the Soviet team over the following year, as he appeared in eight consecutive USSR matches, starting with a 2–0 friendly victory over Scotland in Glasgow in May 1967. He scored two goals during this run in the national side: one each in a 4–2 win against France in Paris on 3 June 1967 and a 4–3 European Championship qualifying home victory over Austria eight days later. After losing his place for the 1968 European Championship qualifying match against Finland on 30 August 1967, Streltsov missed three Soviet Union matches. He regained his place for an away friendly match against Bulgaria on 8 October, scoring a goal as the Soviets fought back from 1–0 to record a 2–1 win. He retained his place for the rest of the calendar year, and scored a hat-trick away against Chile on 17 December. He was voted Soviet Footballer of the Year at the end of the season, although he scored a relatively low six league goals during 1967, his lowest for a full season since his debut year of 1954.\n\nStreltsov was dropped from the Soviet team for the first three national team matches of 1968. After featuring in a home friendly win over Belgium in April, he made his final appearance for the USSR in the 2–0 1968 European Championship quarter-final first leg loss to Hungary on 4 May 1968. The Soviets beat Hungary 3–0 in Moscow a week later, without Streltsov, to qualify for the final tournament on aggregate. Streltsov was left out of the tournament squad, and never played for the USSR again; after his final appearance, his international tally stood at 25 goals in 38 matches. Torpedo won the Soviet Cup during the 1968 season, overcoming Uzbek side Pakhtakor Tashkent 1–0 in the final. Streltsov retained his title of Soviet Footballer of the Year after scoring the highest seasonal total of his career, 21 (in the league), but was moved back to midfield before the 1969 season and did not score in 23 league matches during his final two years. He retired from football in 1970, at the age of 33, leaving his final league record for Torpedo over both spells standing at 99 goals from 222 games.\n\nFollowing a footballing career spent exclusively with Torpedo, Streltsov, a supporter of Spartak Moscow, repeatedly complained about his failure to play for his favourite team. After his retirement, Torpedo continued to pay his salary to fund his study of football coaching at the Institute of Physical Culture. Streltsov returned to Torpedo in the capacity of youth team manager following his qualification; he also spent a brief spell as manager of the first team before returning to the youth team in 1982. He also took part in matches contested by former players before dying in 1990 from throat cancer, which his first wife Alla later claimed had been brought about by irradiated food served to him in the camps. Seven years later, Marina Lebedeva, the woman Streltsov had confessed to raping, was seen laying flowers at his grave in Moscow on the day after the anniversary of his death.\n\nOlympic policy in 1956 was to award gold medals only to members of the winning football squad who had played in the final match. Since Streltsov did not play in the final, he did not receive a medal. He was posthumously given a gold medal in 2006, after this policy was changed retroactively to allow all members of winning Olympic squads to receive medals.\n\nMany critics consider Streltsov to be one of the finest footballers ever from Russia or the Soviet Union: British journalist and author Jonathan Wilson describes him as \"the greatest outfield player Russia has ever produced ... a tall, powerful forward, possessed of a fine first touch and extraordinary footballing intelligence\", while Russian author Aleksandr Nilin writes that \"the boy came to us from the land of wonder\". Streltsov's skilful, innovative style of play helped him to stand out in Soviet football, and his pioneering of the back-heeled pass resulted in it becoming known in Russia as \"Streltsov's pass\". During his early career, this technical ability combined with considerable speed and physical presence to create a formidable all-round forward player. In his later years, with his physical attributes reduced, he emphasised his skill and on-field intelligence to become more of a playmaker, playing further back and setting up attacking moves for team-mates rather than leading them himself. Indeed, for his final two seasons, Streltsov played in an attacking midfield role rather than up front. Despite the eight-year gap between his two spells as a member of the Soviet national team, Streltsov, nicknamed \"The Russian Pelé\", was the fourth highest international goalscorer in the country's history.\nTorpedo Moscow's ground, Torpedo Stadium, was redubbed the \"Eduard Streltsov Stadium\" in 1996. A year later, the Russian Football Union introduced the Strelyets prizes as the most prestigious individual honours in Russian football, awarded annually to the best manager in the Russian league and the best players in each position until discontinued in 2003. A statue of Streltsov was constructed within Moscow's Luzhniki Olympic Complex in 1998, and another was erected by Torpedo outside the stadium bearing his name during the following year.\n\nThe Streltsov Committee, formed in 2001, was founded to attempt to have Streltsov's conviction of rape posthumously overturned. The campaign's leader, chess champion Anatoly Karpov, claimed in 2001 that the conviction had prevented Streltsov from becoming the world's best player. The Central Bank of the Russian Federation paid tribute to Streltsov in 2010, when it minted a commemorative two-ruble coin bearing his likeness. The coin was one of three minted as part of the \"Outstanding Sportsmen of Russia\" series; the other two pieces bore the faces of footballers Lev Yashin and Konstantin Beskov, respectively.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3460247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3460247", "title": "Historical revision of the Inquisition", "text": "Historical revision of the Inquisition\n\nThe Historical revision of the Inquisition is a historiographical process that started to emerge in the 1970s, with the opening of formerly closed archives, the development of new historical methodologies, and, in Spain, the death of the ruling dictator Francisco Franco in 1975. New works of historical revisionism changed our knowledge of the history of the Roman and Spanish Inquisitions.\n\nWriters associated with this project share the view of Edward Peters, a prominent historian in the field, who states: \"The Inquisition was an image assembled from a body of legends and myths which, between the sixteenth and the twentieth centuries, established the perceived character of inquisitorial tribunals and influenced all ensuing efforts to recover their historical reality.\"\n\nInquisitions were ecclesiastical investigations conducted either directly by the Catholic Church or by secular authorities with the support of the Church. These investigations were undertaken at varying times in varying regions under the authority of the local bishop and his designates or under the sponsorship of papal-appointed legates. The purpose of each inquisition was specific to the outstanding circumstances of the region in which it was held. Investigations usually involved a legal process, the goal of which was to obtain a confession and reconciliation with the Church from those who were accused of heresy or of participating in activities contrary to Church Canon law. The objectives of the inquisitions were to secure the repentance of the accused and to maintain the authority of the Church. Inquisitions were conducted with the collaboration of secular authorities. If an investigation resulted in a person being convicted of heresy and unwillingness to repent punishment was administered by the secular authorities.\n\n\"Until recently, Protestant-inspired literature on the Inquisition tended to be hostile to the Catholic Church per se, while Catholic literature tended to be narrowly apologetic and justificatory.\" For Protestant scholars of the nineteenth century such as William H. Prescott and John Lothrop Motley the Spanish Inquisition represented \"the archsymbol of religious intolerance and ecclesiastical power\". Henry Charles Lea wrote both \"A History of the Inquisition of the Middle Ages\" (1888) and \"A History of the Inquisition of Spain\" (1906). \"A History of the Inquisition of Spain\" was considered both groundbreaking and polemical. His studies were criticized for having both an anti-Catholic and an anti-Spanish bias. Lea saw the Inquisition as \"theocratic absolutism\" that weakened Spain to an extent that undermined its overseas empire and ultimately contributed to its defeat during the Spanish–American War of 1898. However both Juan Antonio Llorente's in his \"Histoire critique de l'Inquisition espagnole\" (1817) and Lea had access to original documents.\n\nFor a long time, the Spanish Inquisition had been associated principally with persecution of Protestants. Nineteenth-century historian José Amador de los Ríos brought a focus to bear on the situation of Spain's large \"converso\" population.\n\nThe two most significant and extensively-cited sources of this revised analysis of the historiography of the inquisitorial proceedings are \"Inquisition\" (1988) by Edward Peters and \"The Spanish Inquisition: An Historical Revision\" (1997) by Henry Kamen. These works focus on identifying and correcting what they argue are popular modern misconceptions about the inquisitions and historical misinterpretations of their activities. Kamen's 1997 book is updated and revised from an edition first published in 1965. Kamen takes the position that the Inquisition in Spain was motivated more by political considerations than religious, that the monarchs routinely protected those close to the crown, and that in Aragon large areas either defied or hindered its operation. Eric Rust of Baylor University describes Kamen's work as \"historical revision at its best\".\n\nHelen Rawlings credits Kamen with launching a movement to revisit the historical record. Rawlings identifies four distinct phases, as over time the Inquisition in Spain adapted to changing conditions. From 1480 to 1525 there was an intense persecution of \"conversos\" suspected of continuing to practice Judaism. From 1525 to 1630 there was an increased concern of possible Protestant influence on \"Old Christians\". A less active period from 1630 to 1725 periodically looked to Portuguese \"New Christians\" operating in Spanish commercial sectors; and from 1725 to 1824 traditionalists and liberals argued the future of the institution.\n\nDuring the 11th century, a new wave of religiosity swept through Europe. It claimed that the prospect of salvation in the world would greatly increase if the world were reformed. In addition, the papacy itself underwent reform at the end of the 11th century and the Church began devising its \"grand program of sanctifying the world\". This \"grand program\" was a combination of the Church's desire to reform its institutional life, free itself from secular control, and to build a Christian society. There was also a growing opinion that those who rebelled from the church's beliefs (heretics) or those who behaved in a manner that was \"un-Christian\" were not simply souls led astray in a \"temptation-filled world, but [were] subverters of the world's new course\".\n\nUntil the late 12th century, the investigation of heresy was considered the responsibility of local churches and it was held that local secular authorities would prosecute heretics. However, in 1179, the Church's \"grand program of sanctifying the world\" saw the creation of The Third Lateran Council that included a canon condemning heretics. In 1184, Pope Lucius III issued the \"Ad abolendam\", labeled \"the founding charter of the inquisition,\" that called for those found as heretics by the local church to be turned over to secular courts. Finally, in 1199, Pope Innocent III equated heresy with treason and in 1208 called for a \"crusade\" against the Albigensians\n\nAccording to Peters the violence of the following \"Albigensian Crusade\" was not in line with the reforms and plans of Innocent, who stressed confession, reform of the clergy and laity, and pastoral teachings to oppose heresy. Peters asserts that the violence was due to the \"crusade\" being under the control of mobs, petty rulers, and local bishops who did not uphold Innocent's ideas, armies from northern France swept through the south and essentially eradicated the Albigensians. The uncontainable, prejudicial passion of local mobs and heresy hunters, the violence of secular courts, and the bloodshed of the Albigensian crusade sparked a desire within the papacy to implement greater control over the prosecution of heresy. This desire led to the development of organized legal procedures for dealing with heretics.\n\nProtestant reformers in the 16th century often pointed to the Cathar and Waldensian movements as part of an underground reformed Church that had been the victim of persecution for centuries even though the Cathars had an unquestionably non-Reformed, dualistic perception of God.\n\nGenerally, inquisitorial courts functioned much like the secular courts of the time, though their sentences and penances were less cruel. A number of procedures and protections restricted the torture of the accused, although much torture could be inflicted, and capital punishment was executed by secular authorities due to the clerical prohibition on shedding blood. Torture was used to extract confession, rather than as a form of punishment as used by secular courts. Any confession made following or during torture had to be freely repeated the next day without torture or it was considered invalid. \"Technically, therefore, torture was strictly a means of obtaining the only full proof available…[The inquisitors'] tasks were not only – or even primarily – to convict the contumacious heretic, but…to preserve the unity of the Church\".\n\nAfter the suppression of the Albigensian heresy in southern France in the 13th century, inquisitorial trials diminished in the face of more pressing local needs, and any lingering trials were left to secular authorities. Inquisitorial courts conducted under local episcopacies worked closely with local secular authorities and dealt with local circumstances. Regional control of the inquisitorial process and regional concerns became dominant. By the mid-to-late 14th century papal-commissioned inquisitions had been dissolved in many parts of Europe.\n\nPeters writes,\"From the mid fifteenth century on, religious anti-Semitism changed into ethnic anti-Semitism, with little difference seen between Jews and conversos except for the fact that conversos were regarded as worse than Jews because, as ostensible Christians, they had acquired privileges and positions that were denied to Jews. The result of this new ethnic anti-Semitism was the invocation of an inquisition to ferret out the false conversos who had, by becoming formal Christians, placed themselves under its authority\".\n\nIt was a heated mixture of this racial and religious prejudice against the conversos that ignited what later became known as the \"Spanish Inquisition.\"\n\nThe main heresy prosecuted during the period of inquisitions in Spain was the secret practice of Judaism among some \"conversos\". (The number of \"conversos\" secretly practicing what of Judaism they could is unknown, but recent scholarship has tended to document the existence of more of them, and at later dates, than previously assumed.) From the establishment of the inquisitions up to 1530, it is estimated that approximately 2,000 \"heretics\" were turned over to the secular authorities for execution in Spain.\n\nThere were so few Protestants in Spain that widespread persecution of Protestantism was not physically possible. In the 1560s, a little over one hundred people in Spain were convicted of Protestantism and were turned over to the secular authorities for execution. From 1560 to 1599, two hundred more people were accused of being followers of Martin Luther. \"Most of them were in no sense Protestants...Irreligious sentiments, drunken mockery, anticlerical expressions, were all captiously classified by the inquisitors (or by those who denounced the cases) as 'Lutheran.\n\nEvidence and witness testimony was gathered before an arrest was made. Once an arrest was made, the accused was given several opportunities to admit to any heretical behavior before the charges against him/her were identified. If the accused did not admit to any wrongdoing, the inquisitors dictated the charges and the accused was required to respond to them immediately. Torture was used, but only for extracting confessions during a trial and was not used as punishment after sentencing. If torture was used, the accused was required to repeat their repentance without torture. The Inquisition also had a rule that they were only allowed to use torture once, however, they were able to 'suspend' sessions and resume them the following day, though this never lead into a 3rd day.\n\nAs in the French inquisitions, the purpose of Spanish inquisitorial torture was to gain either information or confession, not to punish. It was used in a relatively small percentage of trials, since of course the threat of torture if no confession was given was often enough to induce one, and was usually a last resort. The \"scenes of sadism conjured up by popular writers on the inquisition have little basis in reality, though the whole procedure was unpleasant enough [even] to arouse periodic protests from Spaniards\".\n\nModern historian Thomas F. Madden has suggested that the Inquisition \"was an attempt to stop unjust executions\" and \"the Spanish Inquisition was widely hailed as the best run, most humane court in Europe.\"\n\nThe \"auto de fe\" that followed trials is the most infamous part of the inquisitions in Spain. The \"auto de fe\" involved prayer, celebration of Mass, a public procession of those found guilty, and a reading of their sentences. Artistic representations of the \"auto de fe\" usually depict torture and the burning at the stake. These paintings became a major source for creating the violent image popularly associated with the Spanish inquisitions. However, this type of activity never took place during an \"auto de fe\", which was in essence a religious act. Torture was not administered after a trial concluded and executions were always held after and separate from the \"auto de fe\". Because the autos de fe officially separate torture and execution, all these events should be considered separate. Although some torture (routine throughout the continent at the time) may have been caused indirectly by the church, the church did not hold itself officially responsible for the murders committed during the inquisition.\n\nBetween 1550 and 1800, the inquisitions in Spain focused on not only Protestants, but also the conversos, the supervision of their own clergy, the general problem of non-mainstream religious beliefs among Catholics, and \"blasphemous\" or \"scandalous\" behavior. Some believe that the Spanish inquisitions may not have been not exceptionally different from other European courts of the time in their prosecution of these offences, as many of these charges were viewed as part of a broad class of moral crimes that raised legitimate concern to spiritual and secular courts in an age when many regarded religion as the fundamental foundation of society.\n\nIncreasing trends in regionalism, the criticism of ecclesiastic abuses, the Avignon Papacy, and the Great Schism all contributed to the emergence of new religious dissent and unrest in 14th and 15th century Italy. Furthermore, widespread ecclesiastical and clerical reform advanced through the last decades of the 15th century, and by the second decade of the 16th century, reform movements prevailed in many parts of Europe.\n\nThe protests raised by Martin Luther that began in 1517 did not initially receive much attention from the papacy. Luther and his supporters concreted the principles of the Protestant Reformation during the 1520s, sparking the development of many reform movements in various regions of Italy. By the time of the pontificate of Paul III, the Reform movement had swept much of Europe away from the Catholic Church. In response, Paul III issued the \"Licet ab initio\", establishing inquisitions in Rome in 1542. These inquisitions consisted of six cardinals given the authority to investigate heresy and to appoint deputies when they deemed necessary.\n\nAlthough the Roman inquisitions worked moderately and guardedly during the remainder of the pontificate of Paul III, they became an essential part of the structure of Rome when Paul IV, who became pope in 1555, launched the Counter-Reformation that Paul III began. Later, in 1588, Pope Sixtus V officially organized the inquisitions into the Congregation of the Holy Roman and Universal Inquisition or Holy Office. It is important to note, however, that this was only one of fifteen administrative departments of the papal government and was not the sole operating body of the Church.\n\nEven though the inquisitions in Spain prosecuted a small quantity of Reformers, the Roman inquisitions were the first to target intentionally and specifically the \"heresy\" of Protestantism. These inquisitions and their subordinate tribunals were generally successful in keeping any substantial Protestant influence from spreading throughout Italy. Protestants in the decades and centuries to come would use this relatively short-lived persecution as the basis for their accusations about the awful \"Inquisition.\" Protestant movements were reduced by around 1600, so for the duration of the 17th century the Roman inquisitions turned their focus to offences other than Protestantism, notably \"magical\" heresy.\n\nIn many trials involving \"witchcraft\" or \"sorcery,\" “the inquisitors understood very well that the lack of catechesis or consistent pastoral guidance could often result in misunderstandings of doctrine and liturgy, and they showed tolerance of all but the most unavoidably serious circumstances. Thus, although both the Spanish and Roman inquisitions prosecuted the offenses of witchcraft and sorcery very early and vigorously, they also were the first courts to be skeptical of the evidence and mechanism of witchcraft accusations, and they consistently offered the most lenient treatment to marginal cases\".\n\nItalian historian Andrea Del Col estimates that out of 62,000 cases judged by Inquisition in Italy after 1542 only 2% (ca. 1250) ended with death sentence.\n\nBy the turn of the 18th century, the Congregation of the Holy Office had virtually no power or influence outside the Papal States. Its main function shifted yet again to the investigation of clerical immorality and corruption and to the censoring of printed books, the latter of which was the key responsibility of the Congregation of the Index. By 1860, the restrictions placed upon ecclesiastical authority and the emerging national Italian state only further reduced the activities of the Holy Office. With its powers reduced to the weakened Papal State, the Office became an advisory committee to the late 19th century popes, where it played a far greater advisory than executive role.\n\nIn 1965 Pope Paul VI changed the Office's name to The Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith and abolished the Congregation of the Index entirely in 1966. Since then, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith has functioned as a papal advisor on theological matters and on matters of ecclesiastical discipline. \"Although its work is regular, the Congregation can now hardly be thought of as an Inquisition\".\n\nThe modern day notion of a unified and horrible \"Inquisition\" is an assemblage of the \"body of legends and myths which, between the sixteenth and the twentieth centuries, established the perceived character of inquisitorial tribunals and influenced all ensuing efforts to recover their historical reality\". \"The [assembled] myth was originally devised to serve variously the political purposes of a number of early modern political regimes, as well as Protestant Reformers, proponents of religious and civil toleration, philosophical enemies of the civil power of organized religions, and progressive modernists...\" It was the relatively limited persecution of Protestants, mostly by the inquisitions in Spain and Italy, that provoked the first image of \"The Inquisition\" as the most violent and suppressive vehicle of the Church against Protestantism. Later, philosophical critics of religious persecution and the Catholic Church only furthered this image during the Enlightenment.\n\n\"...an early major source of anti-Inquisition propaganda happened to be Catholic in origin. With the outstanding exception of the Holy Roman Empire, every significant Catholic state in Europe, including France, was at some time hostile to Spain.\" Contemporary political scientist Niccolò Machiavelli (in The Prince) suggested that King Ferdinand of Spain (who originated the Spanish Inquisition) used religion to his political and financial advantage. Italians under Spanish rule repeatedly revolted against the imposition of a Spanish Inquisition (such as revolts in Naples in 1547). Unpaid Spanish and Germanic mercenaries of the King of Spain (Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor) sacked Rome ten years after Luther posted his theses, besieging the Pope and ending Rome's pre-eminence in the Renaissance. Italian diplomats expressed a low opinion of the Spanish and their Inquisition. Internal criticism of Spanish policies in the Americas was cited by foes of the Inquisition.\n\n\"When the printing press first began to form public opinion ... the most diligent victims of the Inquisition happened to be supporters of the Reformation, and they set about convincing Europe that Spain's intentions ... were now directed against Christian truth and liberty.\" \"The Inquisition\" was characterized by clerical organization and support of the inquisitions in Spain and Italy, their \"united\" success in suppressing Protestant doctrines, and the fear of \"The Inquisition\" being initiated elsewhere. \"Propaganda along these lines proved to be strikingly effective in the context of the political conflicts of the time, and there were always refuges from persecution to lend substance to the story.\" \"As a Protestant vision of Christian history took shape in the 16th century, the contemporary inquisitions were identified with the inquisitorial tribunals of the medieval past, and the Protestant Reformers with earlier victims of \"The Inquisition\"\". Catholic defenders of the inquisitorial process used the same argument – that the Reformers were no different from medieval heretics and should be prosecuted in the same manner – thus perpetuating the idea of a continuous, masterminded \"Inquisition\". Both sides made emotional appeals; \"Thus alongside various kinds of theological and personal polemic, a war of martyrologies commenced.\"\n\nThe Netherlands and Spain came to share rulers by marriage and inheritance among royal families. The Dutch chaffed under the shared monarchy; their many states wanted to retain traditional autonomy while the crown sought centralized authority. The animosity between the King and the Netherlands had complex origins - political, economic, cultural, religious and personal.\n\nBy around 1550, the Dutch \"printing press and propaganda turned to the service of political reform, with The Inquisition as a major focus, on…a wide scale and with…devastating effects\". Even though the Dutch organized their own state-run inquisitions, it was feared that King Philip II would implement a new \"Spanish Inquisition\" in the Netherlands to eliminate Protestantism. Popular literature, circulating pamphlets, and other images painted the picture of a widespread, awful \"Spanish Inquisition.\" A decree of the Spanish Inquisition signed by the King of Spain in 1568 declared most Dutch lives and property forfeit. The decree was not determined to be a forgery until the 20th century. Such anti-inquisition propaganda motivated \"all\" citizens.\nEventually, \"The Inquisition\" became viewed as the primary instrument of Catholic tyranny, not only of Protestants, but also of freedom of thought and religion in general. However, exporting the Inquisition to the Netherlands was never in the plans of the Spanish Habsburg rulers, at least after the time of Charles V. The Dutch Inquisition was killing heretics much faster than the Spanish Inquisition.\n\nIn 1567 \"A Discovery and Plaine Declaration of Sundry Subtill Practices of the Holy Inquisition of Spain\" was published under the pseudonym Reginaldus Gonzalvus Montanus. While authorship is disputed, it was probably written by Antonio del Corro and/or Casiodoro de Reina, both previously Spanish Catholic monks who became Protestants and fled the Inquisition. The former was a theologian, close relative of an inquisitor and ferocious enemy of the Spanish Inquisition in its campaign to destroy Protestantism. The latter was a student of the Bible from childhood, later translating the Bible into Spanish. Montanus' text was \"brief, intelligently designed, and written in a lively and engaging style.\" It was simultaneously accurate about Inquisitional practices (perhaps published for the first time) and misleading. \"Taking some of the most extreme of Inquisitional practices as the norm, Montanus portray[ed] every victim of the Inquisition as innocent, every Inquisition official as venal and deceitful, [and] every step in its procedure as a violation of natural and rational law\". The text included 12 case histories of Lutheran martyrs of the Inquisition which were widely read into the early 19th century. The document, along with a number of successive publications, was reprinted and translated throughout Europe and became the definitive source on \"The Inquisition\" for many years; \"histories\" about \"The Inquisition\" written after 1567 relied on Montanus as their main source. The Spanish Inquisition, regarding its procedures as secret, never disputed Montanus. In a public relations war of the press the Spanish Inquisition forfeited.\n\nFor reasons of history England and France were particularly receptive to Montanus. English monarchs alternated between persecuting Catholics and persecuting Protestants. The French could not agree on a jurisdiction; parlementary and royal inquisitions had both failed.\n\nA more balanced history awaited the publication of Philipp van Limborch in 1692. Juan Antonio Llorente later published a more detailed, if exaggerated, history through his access to the archives of the Spanish Inquisition.\n\nAlso cited as one of the most famous documents supporting the myth of \"The Inquisition\" is the \"Apologie\" of William of Orange, published in 1581. Written by the French Huguenot Pierre Loyseleur de Villiers, the \"Apologie\" presented a horrifying narrative of the Spanish Inquisition. This document preserved and reinforced all of the anti-\"Inquisition\" propaganda generated at the beginning and throughout the Dutch revolt.\n\nWilliam of Orange had been a personal friend of his King from childhood. Nonetheless he became the leader of the Dutch revolt. The King put a price on his head, leading to his assassination. de Villiers had been William's chaplain. The \"Apologie\" was William of Orange's rebuttal of the charges made against him (and thus against the revolt). The assassination and rebuttal made William of Orange a martyr, unifying the opposition in a very long war which ultimately lead to the formation of Belgium and the Dutch Republic as separate countries.\n\nDuring this time, England, under the rule of the Protestant Queen Elizabeth I and threatened with military attacks from Spain, found a new surge of nationalism being fueled by anti-Catholic propaganda centered on a series of books and pamphlets that detailed the horror of the \"Spanish Inquisition\". Peters writes, \"An image of Spain circulated through late 16th-century Europe, borne by means of political and religious propaganda that blackened the characters of Spaniards and their ruler to such an extent that Spain became the symbol of all forces of repression, brutality, religious and political intolerance, and intellectual and artistic backwardness for the next four centuries. Spaniards ... have termed this process and the image that resulted from it as 'The Black Legend', \"la leyenda negra\".\n\nHenry Kamen has criticized the concept, \"Persistent employment of the [Black Legend] label for ideological ends in order to rebut any criticism of Spain's imperial record has made it both unsuitable to use and inaccurate. In any case many of Spain's actions ... were all too real and no \"legend\".\" \"At all times, imperial nations tend to suffer ... in the arena of public opinion, and Spain was no exception, becoming the first victim of a long tradition of polemic that picked on the Inquisition as the most salient point of attack.\"\n\nBy the 17th century, \"The Inquisition\" provided political and philosophical thinkers with an ideal symbol of religious intolerance. These philosophers and politicians passionately denounced \"The Inquisition,\" citing it as the cause for all the political and economic failures in countries where \"Inquisitions\" were held. From these debates on toleration, \"The Inquisition\" was presented by French \"philosophes\" as the worst of any religious evil to ever come out of Europe.Additionally, writers, artists, and sculptors of the 17th and 18th centuries used \"The Inquisition\" as one of their main inspirations, retaliating against \"The Inquisition's\" suppression of creativity, literature, and art. These artistic images have arguably become some of the most long-lasting and effective perpetuators of \"The Inquisition\" myth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9890276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9890276", "title": "History of Dutch orthography", "text": "History of Dutch orthography\n\nThe history of Dutch orthography covers the changes in spelling of Dutch both in the Netherlands itself and in the Dutch-speaking region of Flanders in Belgium.\n\nThe Dutch spoken between 1150 and 1500 is referred to as Middle Dutch. During this period there was no standardization of grammar. Authors generally wrote in their own dialects. Very often it is possible to tell from the language whether a text comes from Limburg, Brabant, or Holland. There was a lot of variation in the spelling. Words were often written as they were pronounced: \"lant\" (land), \"hi vint\" (he finds). The sound determined the spelling, irrespective of the basic word. This is no longer the case with modern Dutch, where \"land\" is still pronounced [lant] but spelt to conform with the plural \"landen\", and \"hij vindt\" (he finds) (still [vint]) has both \"d\" of the infinitive (\"vinden\") and the 3rd person singular ending \"t\". \n\nFrom the very start of its written history, Dutch used the Latin alphabet. At first there were 23 letters: a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, k, l, m, n, o, p, q, r, s, t, v, x, y, z. It was not until later that the j, u, and w were added.\n\nA problem with the Latin alphabet was that it was not easy to make a distinction between long and short vowels (\"a\" / \"aa\"). Various solutions were found. At the beginning of the 13th century the word \"jaar\" (year) was spelt \"jar\" but other variants soon appeared: \"jaer\" and \"jair\" and later \"jaar\" or even \"yaer\" and \"iaer\".\n\nAnother feature of Middle Dutch is that articles or prepositions were often joined onto the word they belonged to: \"tjaer\" (the year) and \"dlant\" (the land), as in the accompanying fragment from \"Karel ende Elegast\". The text translates: “I will tell you a marvelous story, and a true one. Listen! One evening Charles was sleeping in Ingelheim on the Rhine. All the land you could see was his.”\n\nThere were also regional differences. Thus a clerk in Amsterdam in the 14th century would usually write \"lant\", but one in Utrecht would write \"land\".\n\nThe invention of printing led to a more standardized approach.\n\nWith the spirit of the French Revolution pervading all areas of thought, attempts were made to unify Dutch spelling and grammar. Matthijs Siegenbeek, professor at Leiden was officially asked in 1801 to draw up a uniform spelling; the priest Petrus Weiland was asked to write a grammar book. A few years later Siegenbeek published his spelling in \"Verhandeling over de Nederduitsche spelling ter bevordering van de eenparigheid in dezelve\" (Treatise on Lower Dutch spelling to promote uniformity herein) (1804) and a \"Woordenboek voor de Nederduitsche spelling\" (Dictionary for the Dutch Spelling) (1805). The government of the Batavian Republic officially introduced Siegenbeek's spelling on 18 December 1804.\n\nSiegenbeek thought that the spelling should reflect refined Dutch pronunciation, taking into account the uniformity, etymology, and analogy. From the Siegenbeek spelling reforms, one gets the modern Dutch \"ij\" (called \"lange ij\" (\"long y\") as distinct from the usually identically pronounced \"ei,\" called \"korte ei\" (short \"ei\")). The word for iron \"ijzer\" used to be written \"yzer\". Other spellings from Siegenbeek include: \"berigt\" (modern Dutch: \"bericht\" / report), \"blaauw\" (\"blauw\" / blue), \"Dingsdag\" (\"dinsdag\" / Tuesday), \"gooijen\" (\"gooien\" / to throw), \"magt\" (\"macht\" / power), \"kagchel\" (\"kachel\" / stove), \"koningrijk\" (\"koninkrijk\" /kingdom), \"muzijk\" (\"muziek\" / music) and \"zamen\" (\"samen\" / together).\n\nSiegenbeek's spelling never achieved real popularity. In particular the poet Willem Bilderdijk fought against it, largely out of personal spite. He produced some of his own spellings which were popular in the 1830s and 1840s including the modern \"kachel\" (stove), \"plicht\" (instead of \"pligt\" /duty) and \"gooien\" (to throw). However, other spellings of his did not last: \"andwoord\" (\"antwoord\" / answer), \"hair\" (\"haar\" /hair/her), \"ontfangen\" (\"ontvangen\" / to receive), \"thands\" (\"thans\" / at present) and \"wareld\" (\"wereld\" / world).\n\nIn the Dutch-speaking areas in the south of the Netherlands, the Siegenbeek spelling was always unpopular. After Belgium declared independence in 1830, the spelling was denounced as “Hollandish” and “Protestant”. The spelling situation was quite chaotic with much discussion about whether to use \"a\" or \"ae\", \"oo\" or \"oó\", \"ee\" or \"eé\", \"ei\" or \"ey\", \"ui\" or \"uy\", \"ambt\" or \"ampt\", \"u\" or \"ue\", and about the spelling of verbs.\n\nIn 1836, the Belgian government offered a reward for a proposal for a new spelling. In the end, the jury, headed by Jan Frans Willems, produced their own suggestion in 1839 which remained quite close to the Siegenbeek spelling in use in the Netherlands. They retained their own spelling of a few words such as \"kaes\" (cheese), \"ryden\" (to ride) and \"vuerig\" (fiery). The Willems spelling was given royal approval on January 9, 1844.\n\nThe spelling used today both in the Netherlands and in Flanders (Dutch-speaking Belgium) is based on an orthography originally intended only for use in a dictionary. An ambitious project was proposed in 1851 at the Taal- en Letterkundig Congres (Linguistic and Literary Congress) in Brussels at which both the Netherlands and Flanders were represented. The project aimed to produce a large dictionary: Woordenboek der Nederlandsche Taal (WNT) (Dictionary of the Dutch Language), incorporating vocabulary of the past centuries.\n\nThere was a problem with this project: which spelling was to be used for the dictionary? There were three spelling systems in use at the time: the Willems spelling in Belgium, the Siegenbeek spelling in the Netherlands, and several variants of Bilderdijk’s system. It would have been unacceptable to have used a mixture of these systems. In addition, the Siegenbeek system did not address certain issues such as when compounds were to be written as one word or the interpolation of letters in between. It was proposed to create a special dictionary spelling.\n\nThis spelling was established by the linguists Matthias de Vries and L.A. te Winkel. In 1863 Te Winkel published the results in \"De grondbeginselen der Nederlandsche spelling. Ontwerp der spelling voor het aanstaande Nederlandsch Woordenboek\" (The foundations of Dutch spelling. Project for the spelling of the forthcoming Dutch Dictionary). The spelling of De Vries and Te Winkel combined elements of the three current systems, providing a much needed solution to the chaos. By 21 November, the decision was accepted by a royal decree in Belgium. In 1866 De Vries and Te Winkel produced \"Woordenlijst voor de spelling der Nederlandsche taal\" (Vocabulary for the spelling of the Dutch language), which can be seen as a precursor of today’s Groene Boekje (Green Booklet).\n\nThe Netherlands were slower in accepting the De Vries and Te Winkel spelling. Schools continued to use the Siegenbeek spelling until 1870, and in government circles it was not until 1883 that the new spelling started to be used. The De Vries and Te Winkel spelling eventually led to a large degree of uniformity of spelling in the Netherlands and Belgium.\n\nTeachers and linguists continued to object to certain features of the spelling. It was thought that too great an emphasis was being given to etymology. For instance, was spelt differently in \"lzen\" (\"to read\", single \"e\" in open syllable for ) and in \"hten\" (\"to be called\", double \"e\" in open syllable for the same ). This reflected the etymological distinction between \"sharp-long\" \"e\" (from Old Dutch long \"ē\") and \"soft-long\" \"e\" (from Old Dutch short \"e\" and \"i\" that were lengthened in open syllables). However, the etymological reasoning was hard to teach, as the distinction was not made by most Dutch speakers anymore.\n\nR.A. Kollewijn produced an article in 1891 \"Onze lastige spelling. Een voorstel tot vereenvoudiging\" (Our awkward spelling: a proposal for simplification). He emphasized the need for spelling to relate to pronunciation, therefore \"mensch\" (person/human) and \"Nederlandsch\" ought to become \"mens\" and \"Nederlands\", respectively. \"Russisch\" (Russian) he thought should be spelt \"Russies\" and \"moeilijk\" (difficult) \"moeilik\". \"Heeten\" would be written \"heten\", but \"lezen\" would stay the same.\n\nIn 1916, a Dutch commission looked into the possibility of a compromise between De Vries and Te Winkel and the Kollewijn spelling. This gradually led to adaptations: on 1 September 1934, the minister for Education, Marchant, accepted most of Kollewijn’s proposals. The Netherlands and Belgium were starting to diverge once again.\n\nThe Marchant spelling included: \nThe endings '-isch' (as in \"logisch\" (logical)) and '-lijk' (\"mogelijk\" (possible)) remained unchanged. Kollewijn's proposals '-ies' and '-lik' remain popular in some circles as a \"progressive\" spelling to the present day.\n\nDuring World War II the governments of the Netherlands and Flanders decided to look for a way to restore the unification of spelling based on De Vries and Te Winkel. This led to the introduction of a simplification of the Marchant spelling being introduced in Flanders in 1946 and in the Netherlands the following year. A Flemish-Dutch committee compiled a vocabulary which was published in 1954 in a green volume entitled “Woordenlijst van de Nederlandse taal” (Vocabulary of the Dutch language), which became known as “het Groene Boekje” (the Green Booklet).\n\nThere was still dissatisfaction after 1954. Uncertainty arose about many words which had alternative spellings: one version was the preferred spelling (e.g. \"actie\" (action)), the other was the \"permissible\" or \"progressive\" spelling (e.g. \"aktie\"). The Dutch generally used the former, the Belgians the latter. Another problem was the speed at which Dutch was developing new vocabulary for which the 1954 dictionary was of no help for spelling definition.\n\nIn 1994, after much discussion, the Committee of Ministers of the Nederlandse Taalunie which had been founded in 1980 issued a new spelling decree. In the new Groene Boekje which they published the alternative “progressive” spellings were abolished (it was now \"actie\") and there were new rules about the \"n\" linking the compounds of words (\"pannekoek\" (pancake) became \"pannenkoek\" and \"bessesap\" (currant juice) became \"bessensap\"). This came into force in 1996.\n\nIn 1994 it was agreed that the vocabulary of \"het Groene Boekje\" should be revised every ten years without changing the actual rules of spelling. On 15 October 2005 the first of these revisions appeared. Only one rule concerning exceptions was made (the so-called Dandelion Rule): \"paardebloem\" (dandelion) and \"vliegezwam\" (fly agaric) became \"paardenbloem\" and \"vliegenzwam\" for consistency with other similar compounds, e.g. \"paardenstaart\" (horse-tail) and \"vliegenmepper\" (fly swatter). (Note that these 'n's are not normally pronounced.)\n\nApart from this there were a few individual changes. Here are some of the most important ones:\n\n\nAlthough government and educational establishments are required to conform, some newspapers and other publications in the Netherlands are refusing to use the new spelling and have released \"Het Witte Boekje\" (The White Booklet) as an alternative to the latest edition of \"Het Groene Boekje\". This \"white spelling\" allows more than one spelling in several cases, e.g. presence or absence of linking \"n\"s, hyphens and capitalisation. It has, in return, been accused of being even more inconsistent than \"Het Groene Boekje\". In Flanders, the white spelling is not used by any large media.\n\n"}
{"id": "34671090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34671090", "title": "Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church", "text": "Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church\n\nThe Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church () serves by Church statute as the supreme administrative governing body of the Russian Orthodox Church in the periods between Bishops' Councils.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10455469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10455469", "title": "Honkawa Elementary School Peace Museum", "text": "Honkawa Elementary School Peace Museum\n\nThe Honkawa Elementary School Peace Museum (本川小学校平和資料館 \"Honkawa Shogakkou Heiwa Shiryokan\") is a museum of the Peace in Honkawacho, Naka-ku, Hiroshima, Japan. \n\nThe school was the closest school to ground zero of the Hiroshima bombing. They lost about 400 students and more than 10 teachers, and the building took great amounts of damage from the atomic bomb dropped on August 6, 1945. \n\nThe Peace Museum is the part of the school building with the basement of the former Hiroshima City Honkawa Elementary School; it is kept as a place to learn about the importance of peace. The museum is operated by the Honkawa Elementary School PTA, as well as former members of the PTA, and is cleaned and maintained by the students. \n\nThe memorial service for the students and teachers killed in the blast is held every August 5 at the school. The school has also appeared in the manga \"Barefoot Gen\", written by Keiji Nakazawa.\n\nThe school opened in the Myocho-ji, a temple of the Nichiren sect, on January 10, 1873. They built an independent schoolhouse at the current address in 1884. In July 1928 the school constructed a new building, which was the first reinforced concrete school building in Hiroshima.\n\nDuring World War II students in third grade or older were evacuated to another school in the suburbs in April 1945. A few months later, on August 6, 1945, about 400 students and more than 10 teachers were killed by the atomic bomb that was dropped on Hiroshima. In February 1946 the school reopened with 45 students with 4 teachers, but they didn't have any school supplies and the building still hadn't been fully repaired. In 1947 Reverend Arthur Powell Davies encouraged his congregation at the All Souls Church to donate half a ton of school supplies to Honkawa Elementary school. The students drew pictures in thanks, and sent them to the All Souls Church.\n\nIn June 1947 the school was renamed as Hiroshima City Honkawa Elementary School. In 1950 it was designated as the \"School of the Peace Memorial City\" by the Ministry of Education. The new school building was built and part of the old building was opened as the Peace Museum in April 1988. A memorial for the atomic bomb victims was built in November 1998.\n\nThe total number of visitors for the museum reached 100,000 in September 1998. A collection of the stories about the atomic bomb, \"Negai\" was written in March 2005. Students participated in the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Ceremony and performed the Commitment to Peace as the Children's representatives on August 6, 2005. Most recently, cherry trees were planted in remembrance of the bombing in March 2006.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22805801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22805801", "title": "Jewish Peace Fellowship", "text": "Jewish Peace Fellowship\n\nThe Jewish Peace Fellowship is a nonprofit, nondenominational organization set up to provide a Jewish voice in the peace movement. The organization was founded in 1941 in order to support Jewish conscientious objectors who sought exemption from combatant military service. The JPF is currently headquartered in Nyack, New York.\n\nThe fellowship is a branch member of the International Fellowship of Reconciliation.\n\nThe JPF produces literature about peacemaking, nonviolent activism, and registering as a conscientious objector.\n\n\n\n\nThe Jewish Peace Fellowship maintains its archive at the American Jewish Historical Society/Center for Jewish History in NYC"}
{"id": "829344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=829344", "title": "Kikuyu Central Association", "text": "Kikuyu Central Association\n\nThe Kikuyu Central Association (KCA), led by James Beauttah and Joseph Kang'ethe, was a political organisation in colonial Kenya formed in 1924/5 to act on behalf of the Gĩkũyũ community by presenting their concerns to the British government. One of its greatest grievances was the expropriation of the most productive land by British settlers from African farmers. Most members of the organisation were from the Gĩkũyũ tribe.\n\nKCA was formed after the colonial government banned the earlier Young Kikuyu Association founded by Harry Thuku and the East African Association.In either 1925 or early 1926, Beauttah moved to Uganda, although remained in contact with Kenyatta. When the KCA wrote to Beauttah and asked him to travel to London as their representative, he declined, but recommended that Kenyatta who had a good command of the English language go in his place. Kenyatta accepted, probably on the condition that the Association matched his pre-existing wage. He thus became the group's secretary. Jomo Kenyatta, later the first president of Kenya, joined it to become its General Secretary in 1927.\n\nThe Kikuyu Central Association was banned in 1940 when World War II reached East Africa. Some fighters of the later Mau-Mau still understood their struggle as continuation of KCA and even called themselves KCA.\n\nThe end of World War II, however, saw the new type of African organisation that went beyond tribal boundaries with the rise of the Kenya African Union that later was to become KANU.\n\nKCA published the \"Muiguithania\" (\"the reconciler\"), a Kikuyu language newspaper. It was banned alongside KCA in 1940.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47805881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47805881", "title": "Labor Party (Romania)", "text": "Labor Party (Romania)\n\nThe Labor Party (, modernized \"Partidul Muncii\", PM) was a minor left-wing political group in Romania. Based in the city of Iași, and founded by George Diamandy, in its inception it was a split from the National Liberal Party (PNL). The PM responded to the major social and political crisis sparked by World War I, with the southern regions of Romania having been invaded and occupied by Germany. It notably pushed for urgent land reform, universal suffrage, and labor rights, also wishing to replace the 1866 Constitution with a more democratic one, and advocating class collaboration. Through Diamandy, its roots were planted in the \"generous youth\" current of 19th-century reformism.\n\nCo-chaired by Nicolae L. Lupu, the PM grouped together disgruntled members of the PNL, old affiliates of homegrown Poporanism, and left-agarianists with republican leanings, inspired by the success of Russian Revolutionary Socialists (or \"Esers\"). It was perceived as a nuisance by the institutions of the Romanian Kingdom, but largely dismissed as shambolic, and reportedly criticized as \"bourgeois\" by Russian radicals. Pushed into obscurity by the events of the war, which drove its leaders into exile, the PM divided itself into factions, one of which continued to survive as a separate wing of the anti-PNL People's League. Lupu and his supporters were among those who established the Peasants' Party.\n\nA rebellious aristocrat and landowner, Diamandy was introduced to socialism ca. 1887, when he wrote his first articles in the Marxist review \"Contemporanul\". In the 1890s, he had set up in Paris his own \"L'Ère Nouvelle\", which represented a heterodox form of Marxism, and helped launch the writing career of Georges Sorel. As the latter noted, Diamandy was an \"unreliable\" character, who \"simply disappeared\" from his life at some point.\n\nDiamandy's pragmatic Marxism was developed during his years in the Romanian Social Democratic Workers' Party (PSDMR), where he sought to introduce a policy of alliances with the establishment parties: first a cartel with the Conservative Party, and later a form of close cooperation with the PNL, to the point of merger. By 1899, he supported making the PSDMR into a reformist \"National Democratic\" or \"Progressive Democratic\" party, and sealed deals with the PNL's own \"Poporanist\" (agrarian) wing. This effectively split the PSDMR into two or more factions: the \"generous youth\" faction, led by Diamandy and Vasile Morțun, registered with the PNL. During the following 10 years, Diamandy, still calling himself a dialectical materialist, became an internal critic of National Liberalism. His \"Revista Democrației Române\" accused the PNL establishment of having turned reactionary and sketched out a plan for the introduction of universal male suffrage.\n\nPushed out of political affairs by the PNL's leadership before the March 1911 elections, Diamandy focused on his activity as a comedic writer. He returned into the mainstream during the early stages of World War I, when Romania preserved a policy of neutrality under PNL Prime Minister Ion I. C. Brătianu. The latter selected Diamandy as his semi-official envoy to Entente countries, where he negotiated deals and treaties of mutual assistance. He was again elected to Chamber in 1914, where he showed himself to be a cautious supporter of an alliance between Romania and the Entente. In summer 1916, Brătianu agreed to a political and territorial deal, and Romania entered the war as an Entente country. Diamandy fought in the subsequent campaign, but was soon hospitalized for a heart condition.\n\nIn short while, Romania was overwhelmed by the Central Powers, losing the Battle of Bucharest; the government and the Chamber were moved to Iași, the provisional capital, and Romania continued to fight alongside the Russian Empire. Retaking his seat, Diamandy reemerged as one of Brătianu's extreme critics, accusing him of having mismanaged the whole campaign. The February Revolution of 1917 installed a left-leaning and republican Government of Russia, which rekindled Diamandy's radicalism. Reportedly, he argued that the new Russian democracy was incompatible with Brătianu's \"tyrannical\" government.\n\nOn April 27 or May 1, 1917, Diamandy formed the PM as a parliamentary party, centered on the issue of land reform. Described in literature either a \"broad bourgeois democratic\" tendency or the parliament's \"socialist faction\", it supposedly comprised \"mainly [politicians] formed at the school of socialism.\" Diamandy openly criticized the PNL for wanting to enact a redistribution of land, since, he claimed, Brătianu no longer had a \"moral right\" to do so. According to the PNL's Ion G. Duca, Diamandy was bluffing, as he himself did not support a complete land reform. The Minister of Agriculture, Gheorghe Gh. Mârzescu, was also a critic of Diamandy's politics, describing them as an elaborate \"operetta\" production \"for the benefit of the peasants\". According to writer and civil servant Arthur Gorovei, his friend Diamandy was known locally for persecuting the peasants living on his own estate.\n\nDiamandy soon became noted for his displays of Russian socialist symbolism, in particular calico redshirts, \"Russian worker's blouse[s]\", or \"tolstovka\" garments. He was the PM theoretician, authoring its program and publishing it as a brochure. Calling for the union of \"clean souls\" and \"healthy energies\", it proposed a universal land reform giving each peasant 5 hectares of land, and a vote for all citizens over the age of 20, women included. Also included as demands were the right to strike, child labor laws, a nationalization of the National Bank, and a new constitution enshrining class collaboration. The party also drew up plans for decentralization with economic interventionism, cooperative farming, progressive taxation, and the expropriation of the subsoil. The brochure was immediately confiscated by military censorship, allegedly not because of its demands, but because of its combative nature in a time of crisis. According to Duca's hostile account, the PM was largely shaped by Diamandy's \"pathological state\", his heart disease having led him to lose his sense of control and moderation. Gorovei also dismissed the PM as a \"prank\".\n\nThe radical agrarianist Nicolae L. Lupu was the PM co-chairman. A physician and civil servant, he had published in the Poporanist press indictments of the social misery and political repression prevalent in the countryside. Lupu's advocacy of land reform took the form of a personal conflict with Mârzescu, carried out in Chamber. Later, the party was joined by Grigore Iunian, Grigore Trancu-Iași, Mihail Macavei, and four other PNL with various grievances against their former party: Mihai Carp, Tilică Ioanid, Ioan P. Rădulescu-Putna, and Numa \"Nunucă\" Protopopescu. Reportedly, the party also claimed to have registered a verbal pledge of support from the \"peasant deputy\" Andrei Marinescu, who died in the typhus epidemic. Marinescu's funeral, Duca reports, was a \"macabre scene\", in which the PNL and PM speakers \"fought over the corpse\". Outside parliament, several figures from civil society also signed their names to the party manifesto: journalist Eugen Goga (brother of the more famous poet), lawyer Deodat Țăranu, teachers Mihai Pastia and Spiridon Popescu, and chemist Petre Bogdan. Other affiliates included socialist-and-Poporanist physicians Ioan Cantacuzino, Constantin Ion Parhon, and Alexandru Slătineanu.\nIn addition to promoting land and electoral reforms, the PM was widely suspected of being republican and conspiratorial. King Ferdinand I feared \"the growth of a socialist movement in our country\", and more particularly Diamandy's contacts with the Esers. On its left, the PM included republicans such as Lupu, who allegedly carried out secret negotiations with other politicians, and with the Russians, in order to bring down both the king and Brătianu through a putsch. According to Duca, these negotiations stalled when the envoy of the Iași military soviet discovered that the \"oligarchic\" and \"bourgeois\" PM had no backing in the countryside.\n\nThe PM was founded just days after a street demonstration organized by the Russian soviet, described by Duca as an attempted coup spurred on by the socialist Christian Rakovski, supposedly thwarted by a Romanian demonstration of strength. According to Duca, the PM intended to partake in the putsch, but \"in the end got scared [...] because they sensed that if the Russian revolutionaries are to stage a coup, it would not go in their favor\". Diamandy, who was structurally a monarchist, printed a call to order, addressed to the Romanian proletariat. Afterward, the Laborites portrayed themselves as patriotic resisters, and Lupu even threatened to duel those who questioned his loyalty. The PM continued to have links with the revolutionary activist Ilie Cătărău, who was Lupu's emissary among the Romanian-speakers of the Russian Bessarabia Governorate. He contacted the National Moldavian Party, whose leader Pan Halippa dismissed the PM as irrelevant.\n\nIn June 1917, during a renewed offensive of the Central Powers, the ailing Diamandy became one of the various Romanian public figures taking refuge in Russia. He was caught there by the October Revolution, and again took flight, died on board a refugee ship sailing the North Sea. The same month, Lupu also left Romania as a delegate of the University Professors' Association, campaigning for the Romanian cause in the United States—according to Duca, his escaping was the equivalent of a desertion, leaving typhus-stricken Romania without a highly trained physician. With Simeon G. Murafa, Cătărău founded his own \"Romanian Revolutionary Party\", a blend of anarchism and Romanian nationalism, before the Russian government arrested him for his propaganda in Bessarabia.\n\nLupu was still PM president in early 1918, when a Conservative cabinet, presided upon by Alexandru Marghiloman, was called in to sign peace with the Central Powers. The PM, which coalesced around a Iași newspaper called \"Tribuna\", fought against that measure, and against Marghiloman's other policies, presenting its own candidates for the 1918 election. These were held with universal male suffrage, the Laborites having been instrumental in blocking legislation for demeny voting and other such forms of disenfranchisement. Although the PM's Carp announced a worldwide \"rapid evolution to the left\" and the transfer of social control toward \"the grand army of labor\", the party itself was soon joined by the civil servant Grigore Filipescu, formerly a dissident Conservative. He was close to the politically ambitious General Alexandru Averescu, supporting a broad front against the PNL, to be established under Averescu's presidency. In April 1919, represented by Trancu-Iași, it signed up to the People's League (PL), created in Iași by Averescu. Various other former PM members opted to return into the PNL.\n\nThe PM was generally considered defunct by late 1918 or early 1919. However, the LP was purposefully created as a federation, allowing for the existence of individual parties–Filipescu personally moderated between the LP's far-right, represented by A. C. Cuza, and his PM colleagues. Throughout the interval, the Laborites had talks with the consolidated Socialist Party (PS), a nominal successor of the PSDR. Lupu and his followers negotiated directly with the PS, but found it impossible to agree on a common platform for the 1919 elections.\n\nDefining himself as a \"socialist in my own way\", a \"national socialist\" and a monarchist, Lupu ran as an ally of Ion Mihalache's Peasants' Party (PȚ), strongly opposed to Averescu's policies. To his old proposals for reform, he added mandatory leasing and rent regulation, in an effort to ensure affordable housing. In 1920, he registered the PM as a component of the \"Parliamentary Bloc\" governing alliance, which comprised the PȚ, the Romanian National Party, the Democratic Nationalist Party, the Bessarabian Peasants' Party, and the Democratic Union Party. Lupu continued to claim leadership of the PM, when, in 1921, it formalized its fusion with the PȚ; Parhon, affiliated with the short-lived Laborer Party, had rallied with the PȚ in 1919. Macavei remains the only documented case of a PM member joining the PS; affiliating with the socialists' far-left, he later became a member of the outlawed Communist Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "44318921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44318921", "title": "Luxembourg Leaks", "text": "Luxembourg Leaks\n\nLuxembourg Leaks (sometimes shortened to Lux Leaks or LuxLeaks) is the name of a financial scandal revealed in November 2014 by a journalistic investigation conducted by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. It is based on confidential information about Luxembourg's tax rulings set up by PricewaterhouseCoopers from 2002 to 2010 to the benefits of its clients. This investigation resulted in making available to the public tax rulings for over three hundred multinational companies based in Luxembourg.\n\nThe LuxLeaks' disclosures attracted international attention and comment about tax avoidance schemes in Luxembourg and elsewhere. This scandal contributed to the implementation of measures aiming at reducing tax dumping and regulating tax avoidance schemes beneficial to multinational companies.\n\nThe judicial aspects of this case concern the persons charged by Luxembourg justice for participating in the revelations. No multinational company was charged. The LuxLeaks trial took place in spring 2016 and led to the condemnation of the two whistleblowers. The appeal trial's judgment was delivered in March 2017, uphelding monetary fines and reducing the suspended jail sentence for Deltour.\n\nOn 5 November 2014, the Washington, D.C.–based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) released LuxLeaks investigation. Eighty journalists from media organizations around the globe had been involved in collaboratively reviewing 28,000 pages of documents. All documents are available online in a searchable database categorized by industry and corporation published by the ICIJ and by other websites. The documents disclose tax rulings between Luxembourg and more than 340 companies worldwide aiming at reducing their tax payments. The Luxembourg Leaks provide insight into 548 tax rulings, dating from 2002 to 2010.\n\nOn 9 December 2014, ICIJ revealed new names of about 30 large companies benefiting from tax rulings and tax avoidance schemes in Luxembourg. This second wave is labeled \"LuxLeaks 2\" in complement to the first revelation wave in November labeled \"LuxLeaks 1\".\n\nThe LuxLeaks revelations have had a worldwide impact, as ICIJ partnered its investigations with many media around the world: CNBC (USA), CBC (Canada), \"The Irish Times\" (Ireland), \"Le Monde\" (France), \"Tagesanzeiger\" (Switzerland), \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" (Germany), \"Asahi Shimbun\" (Japan) and many others.\n\nAfter publishing LuxLeaks investigation, ICIJ was awarded one of the United States' top journalism awards, the George Polk Awards in the Business Reporting category (ICIJ is jointly awarded for 2 other investigations) in February 2015. ICIJ was also awarded 'Investigation of the Year' for the LuxLeaks and SwissLeaks investigations at the Data Journalism Awards in June 2015.\n\nAlthough the ICIJ LuxLeaks and WikiLeaks show similarity in names and operating mode (as international, online, non-profit, journalistic organisations publishing confidential or secret information), this does not imply any known connection between them.\n\nLuxLeaks revelations shed light on the Luxembourgish tax regime, highly beneficial to multinational companies. Foreign corporations started settling in Luxembourg in large numbers in the early 1990s, when Luxembourg transposed in its national law a EU directive that allowed companies to pay taxes in a European headquarters country other than where their subsidiaries operated.\n\nTax rulings are set up by large accounting firms (the \"Big Four\") for the benefits of their clients, multinational companies, and then approved by the Luxembourgish tax administration. Tax rulings include schemes to transfer revenues to Luxembourg. Transfer pricing is one of the mechanisms used by multinational corporations to reallocate profits. Intra-group loans are another possible mechanism: a company based in a high-tax country gives a loan at a low interest rate to a subsidiary in Luxembourg. The interest rate reflects the credit rating of the company group, for example 1%. The subsidiary in Luxembourg is typically set up with the purpose of loaning money at high interest rates, for example 9%, back to another subsidiary outside Luxembourg. Since the tax regime in Luxembourg is tailored to be advantageous for financial arm of multinational companies, the profits generated there are taxed at very low rates. Such mechanisms are effective means to erode tax bases in countries with high tax rates and to shift profits to countries where they are less taxed (see also Base erosion and profit shifting).\n\nIn many cases the companies' presence in Luxembourg is only symbolic. For instance, 1,600 companies are registered at the same address – 5, rue Guillaume Kroll – in Luxembourg.\n\nThe legality of tax rulings is under question. Even if they exist in many European countries, tax rulings tend to become considered as state aids able to distort competition. The European Commission Directorate-General for Competition launched several investigations in the last years.\n\nIn October 2015, the European Commission concluded that the tax deals in favour of Fiat Finance and Trade in Luxembourg and Starbucks in the Netherlands are illegal state aid. During her press conference, the European Commission Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager confirmed: \"We used the information coming from the LuxLeaks as market information [...] The whistleblower also plays an important role here.\"\n\nFollowing the LuxLeaks revelations, several investigations were launched against other multinational companies. Since December 2015, the McDonald's company is subject to an investigation launched by the European Commission Directorate-General for Competition. It looks into a system of licenses paid by the European subsidiaries of McDonald's to its Luxembourg branch. More than one billion Euros of tax loss for the European states between 2009 and 2013 would be at stake. McDonald's doesn't wait for the investigations' conclusions and announces in December 2016 the moving of its tax branch from Luxembourg to the United Kingdom. Investigations are also now opened against Amazon in 2014 and against GDF-Suez (now Engie) in 2016 for their tax schemes in Luxembourg. Ikea is also on the radar of EU.\n\nOn 11 January 2016, the European Commission concluded that the preferential tax system established since 2005 in Belgium was illegal. Consequently, thirty-five large multinational companies which benefited from this illegal tax system will have to reimburse a tax shortfall estimated to at least 700 million Euros. Referring to the change of momentum about corporate taxation in Europe, EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said: \"I think everyone should thank both the whistleblower and the investigative journalists who put a lot of work into this\".\n\nWhen revealed, LuxLeaks impact on the public opinion was particularly high, as it put in front line the controversial role of Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission newly appointed a few days before LuxLeaks revelations. Juncker was Luxembourg's prime minister at the time when many of his country's tax-avoidance rules were enacted. Luxembourg's finance minister, Pierre Gramegna, described the leak as \"the worst attack\" his country had ever experienced. The LuxLeaks raised discussion on tax avoidance in Luxembourg and other countries.\n\nFollowing the LuxLeaks scandal, anti-EU groups at the European Parliament, including the UK Independence Party and France's National Front, proposed a motion of censure against European Commission's team with J.C. Juncker as its president. On 27 November 2014, the vote led to the European Parliament rejecting the motion of censure, as mainstream political groups supported Jean-Claude Juncker.\n\nOn 12 February 2015, the European Parliament set up a special committee on tax rulings in the European Union Member States. The committee is composed of 45 members and initially had six months to report its findings. This special committee was preferred to a committee of inquiry which would have implied a higher power of inquiry. This choice is considered by some parliamentarians as a political willingness not to embarrass Jean-Claude Juncker. In the context of its investigations, the special committee requested information to the Commission and Member States, it commissioned research briefings, held public hearings and Committee's delegations visited several countries in Europe. The Committee faced multinational corporations' unwillingness to testimony. On 26 October 2015, the committee published at the end of its mandate a report with several recommendations: country-by-country reporting of multinationals' activities; introducing Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCTB) in Europe; including the European Commission into the tax rulings automatic information sharing; better protection for whistleblowers. At the end of November 2015, the report was approved by the European Parliament in a plenary session vote.\n\nThe special committee of the European Parliament has been reactivated until June 2016. Reactivation of the committee follows press' disclosure of documents, which demonstrates how some countries within the European Commission have been obstructive for more than ten years regarding any reform of the systems allowing aggressive tax avoidance.\nThe new special committee includes the same members as the initial committee. It aims at following and deepening previous investigations on tax rulings and tax policies in European Union states.\n\nThe first action at the European Commission level was a Tax Transparency Package that commissioner Pierre Moscovici presented on 18 March 2015. It mainly consisted in setting up a system of automatic exchange of information on advance tax ruling between Member States' tax administrations. Non-governmental organizations (NGO) and Members of European Parliament (MEP) consider these measures insufficient as no public release of the rulings is expected. The technical document accompanying the Tax Transparency Package considers LuxLeaks as a major motive for the Commission's decision to act on corporate tax avoidance. That's why some anti federalist politicians fear that the European Commission will use LuxLeaks to push for tax harmonisation.\n\nIn October 2015, European finance ministers evaluated the system of automatic exchange of information on tax rulings between Member States administrations, leaving however the European Commission and the public in general outside of this information exchange. The automatic exchange of information on advance tax ruling between Member States' tax administrations is effective since 1 January 2017.\n\nThe European Commission made a second move on 17 June 2015 by presenting an \"Action Plan for Fair and Efficient Corporate Taxation in the EU\". In introducing the action plan, Commissioner Pierre Moscovici said \"Corporate taxation in the EU needs radical reform [and] everyone must pay their fair share\". The action plan on fairer taxation proposes to re-launch the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base, four years after its previous attempt met Member States' opposition. It also proposes several measures in order to reach effective taxation of companies in the countries where the profits are made. The Commission also published a list of Top 30 tax havens among non-EU Member States. NGOs expressed doubts that this action plan would successfully eradicate multinational companies' profit shifting and underlined the lack of willingness in acting quickly on the subject.\n\nThe European Commission released on 27 January 2016 a new Action Plan, including anti-tax avoidance measures such as the automatic exchange of key information related to multinationals' activities. However, in order to be enacted, this plan will have to be unanimously approved by the member states of the European Union. The new Action Plan has already been assessed by tax justice NGOs as being too weak a measure to counteract tax avoidance.\n\nOn 12 April 2016, the European Commission presented a new plan to tackle corporate tax dodging. A European Parliament's study estimates that EU countries lose between €50 billion and €70 billion in tax revenue every year, due to corporate income tax avoidance.\n\nIn June 2016, European Member States came to an agreement on fighting against the main tax optimization tools used by companies in Europe. However, the agreement could be reached only with the inclusion of exemptions and an increased implementation time length, which are expected to weaken the effects of this deal.\n\nIn October 2016, the European Commission proposed to create a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base for companies operating in the EU.\n\nMeasures to combat tax minimization were discussed by leaders attending the 2014 G-20 Brisbane summit and included in the G-20 Leaders' Final Communiqué: \"We are taking actions to ensure the fairness of the international tax system and to secure countries' revenue bases. Profits should be taxed where economic activities deriving the profits are performed and where value is created.\"\n\nIn November 2015, the 2015 G-20 Antalya summit adopted the action plan released by the OECD in early October. The base erosion and profit shifting plan includes a list of 15 measures. NGOs fear that this plan will not be sufficient to end multinationals tax avoidance.\n\nLuxLeaks revelations stress the fact that tax rulings are a priori legal but secret under the law of Luxembourg. Numerous European Member States sign tax rulings (22 out of 28 States), but European statistics show that in 2014, Luxembourg is the European country having the highest number of these ongoing 'sweetheart tax deals'. After LuxLeaks revelations, tax rulings kept on being agreed in Luxembourg. The Luxembourgish tax administration indicated that 715 new tax rulings were signed in 2014 and 726 in 2015. The content of these rulings remains secret: neither the name of benefiting companies nor the tax rates obtained are known.\n\nIn May 2016, some press articles reported that Luxembourg has started to propose to multinationals some verbal tax rulings instead of written ones, in order to keep them secret. Luxembourg denied this information.\n\nIn December 2016, Luxembourg government shows good will and changes its tax rules for companies, making it more difficult for multinationals to avoid paying taxes through international structure. However, in January 2017, The Guardian publishes revelations showing that Luxembourg continues obstructing tax reforms efforts in Brussels, as was the case when Jean-Claude Juncker was the Grand-Duchy Prime Minister.\n\nIn Luxembourg, LuxLeaks revelations are often considered as a national trauma due to the stigma made to the country, perceived abroad as \"tied to banking secrecy\". Following the LuxLeaks, the Luxembourg government set up a nation branding policy to improve the image of the country. Nevertheless, with the trial of the whistleblowers and journalist who are involved in the disclosure of the leaks, Luxembourg continued to be perceived as a tax and judicial haven.\n\nIn December 2014, the British parliamentary Public Accounts Committee interviewed Kevin Nicholson (head of tax division in PwC UK) for the second time in two years. Margaret Hodge, the chairwoman of the committee, accused Nicholson of having lied in the first hearing before LuxLeaks. She said: \"It's very hard for me to understand that this is anything other than a mass-marketed tax avoidance scheme,\" and \"I think there are three ways in which you lied and I think what you are doing is selling tax avoidance on an industrial scale.\"\nNicholson denied that PwC mass-marketed tax avoidance schemes.\n\nOn 6 February 2015, the Public Accounts Committee published the report \"Tax avoidance: the role of large accountancy firms\". Commenting on the report, Margaret Hodge, chairwoman of the committee, says PwC's activities represent \"nothing short of the promotion of tax avoidance on an industrial scale\". During its investigation, the committee heard the British subsidiary of PwC and large companies that benefited from tax rulings.\n\nIn March 2015, the government of the United Kingdom announced the introduction of a diverted profits tax to deter firms setting up tax avoidance schemes.\n\nAccording to the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), files used for the LuxLeaks revelations come from employees or former employees of Luxembourgish subsidiaries of the international accounting firms: PwC, EY, Deloitte and KPMG (the \"Big Four\").\n\nBetween December 2014 and April 2015, three people were indicted in Luxembourg in connection with LuxLeaks revelations. No multinational corporation faces charges in any country or at the international level, due to the so far legality of tax rulings.\n\nOn 12 December 2014, the Luxembourg prosecutor's office announced that an investigating judge had charged someone with theft, disclosing of confidential information and trade secrets, money laundering and fraud, following the complaint filed by PwC in 2012 against a former employee. On 14 December 2014, Antoine Deltour - a 28-year-old Frenchman - identified himself and said that his motivation was public good and not financial motivation. He stated that the files he copied were not protected, he did not hack any system. He said he had no contact with ICIJ which had disclosed the LuxLeaks documents and he did not attempt to hide what he was doing. He copied the files because he thought \"this type of data could document the tax ruling practice, which was widely unknown, especially in terms of scale.\"\n\nSupport to the young French whistleblower progressively grew. On 23 December 2014, more than 70 politicians, academics, union heads and charity leaders around the world signed in The Guardian an open letter in opposition to the decision by Luxembourg to prosecute Antoine Deltour. On 10 March 2015, the French newspaper Libération released an Op-Ed article signed by multiple French and International signatories including Edward Snowden, Thomas Piketty and Eva Joly. A support committee to Antoine Deltour set up a public petition that got more than 212,000 signatures in November 2016.\n\nOn 3 June 2015, Antoine Deltour was awarded the European Citizens' Prize by the European Parliament, a prize annually awarding Europeans contributing to the promotion of European citizenship and mutual cultural understanding. On 10 September 2015, Antoine Deltour was jointly nominated, together with two other whistleblowers – Stéphanie Gibaud and Edward Snowden - for the 2015 Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought. In December 2015, Antoine Deltour was recognized as the \"Person of the Year 2015\" by Tax Notes International professional magazine, for the influential role he played in shaping new international tax law.\n\nNew names of companies which benefited from tax rulings were revealed in December 2014 (\"LuxLeaks 2\"). These names show that other leaks originated from PwC but also from other accountancy firms based in Luxembourg.\nOn 23 January 2015, Raphaël Halet, another former PricewaterhouseCoopers employee was charged for similar accusations as was Antoine Deltour, following the leak of 16 tax returns of US companies. This employee was fired due to the leak. His identity was kept secret until the trial began, as Halet signed a secret agreement with PwC forcing him to silence.\n\nOn 23 April 2015, the journalist Edouard Perrin was indicted in Luxembourg for being the co-author or accomplice of the offences committed by the former PwC employee charged on 23 January. Journalist organizations consider this judicial decision as an attempt against press freedom.\n\nFollowing Price Waterhouse Coopers' complaint, the trial of the three people involved in the disclosure of secret tax agreements was held from 26 April to 11 May 2016 at the Criminal Court of Luxembourg, for eight half-day hearings, instead of the five initially scheduled.\n\nThe prosecutor and lawyers for the plaintiff (PricewaterhouseCoopers) emphasized the disclosure of secret documents as an act of delinquency. According to the lawyers of the former employees of the audit firm, Antoine Deltour and Raphael Halet only acted with the motivation of defending the general interest. During their hearings, Antoine Deltour and Raphael Halet emphasized their role of whistleblowers disclosing multinational companies' aggressive tax planning practices, which are immoral and extremely detrimental to the common good. The journalist Edouard Perrin's lawyers argued that he only acted professionally and that he was not the sponsor of the leaks.\n\nAt the end of the trial, the prosecutor requested a 18-month jail sentence for the two whistleblowers (possibly a fully conditional sentence), as well as fines against them and against the journalist (of a non specified amount). PricewaterhouseCoopers' lawyers asked the defendant's conviction and 1 euro in damages. The defense lawyers have all pleaded acquittal of their clients, on the basis of freedom of expression as interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights. The judgment was delivered on 29 June 2016. Antoine Deltour is sentenced to a suspended 12-month jail time and a 1,500 € fine. Raphaël Halet is sentenced to a suspended 9-month jail time and a 1,000 € fine. Edouard Perrin, the journalist who first released the revelations, is acquitted.\n\nThe media coverage of the LuxLeaks trial was high, as it is symbolic of the current difficulties faced by whistleblowers and their insufficient protection in Europe. In 2016 the EU adopted new rules on companies' trade secrets; in the meantime, the project of a directive on the general whistleblowers' protection doesn't go ahead. The trial also raised the issue of tax practices legitimacy revealed by Luxleaks case. Faced with the unfairness of the trial, the defendants found many supporters during the trial and in front or in the Luxembourg Court.\n\nIn July 2016, Antoine Deltour and Raphaël Halet both decided to appeal against their respective sentence. Late July, the prosecutor of Luxembourg also appealed the verdict, in order to ensure a full trial and avoid truncating the case. The acquittal of journalist Edouard Perrin was subject to review.\n\nBefore the appeal trial began, 108 MEPs signed an open letter addressed to the whistleblowers \"to express [their] support and solidarity with [the whistleblowers] in light of the ongoing judicial proceedings against [them] in Luxembourg. [They] salute their courage over the past years and their tenacity in trying to overturn the 29 June verdict.\"\n\nThe appeal trial took place in Luxembourg from 12 December 2016 to 9 January 2017 and included five half-day hearings. The appeal trial mainly focused on contradictory arguments about the European Court of Human Rights' criteria used to recognize someone as a whistleblower. All the criteria were fulfilled according to Deltour and Halet's lawyers, but challenged by the prosecutor and the plaintiff. Halet's defense also argued on the illegality, at the time of the facts, of Luxembourg tax authorities policies regarding tax rulings. In his indictment, the prosecutor required reduced sentences, compared to the sentences delivered in first instance. He also requested journalist Edouard Perrin's acquittal. The defense pleaded for acquittal of each of the three defendants. Both Antoine Deltour's and Raphaël Halet's sentences were reduced as a result of their respective appeals. Deltour was given a 6-month suspended prison sentence and charged with a 1500 euro fine while Halet was given a 1000 euro fine. The journalist Edouard Perrin was acquitted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2860802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2860802", "title": "Malawian food crisis", "text": "Malawian food crisis\n\nIn 2002, there was a famine in Malawi with death estimates ranging from 300 to 3,000, according to ActionAid. 85 percent of Malawians' primary source of income comes from agriculture, and wheat and potato were the primary crop grown and consumed. Therefore, when the IMF reported that the 2000/2001 maize harvest fell from 2.5 million to 1.7 million metric tons, creating a national deficit of 273,000 metric tons, many were affected. In February 2002, the Malawi government announced that there was a food emergency and that the country was in a State of Disaster. The harvest in the later half of 2002 alleviated the worst of the famine, but in 2005, a drought prompted a food crisis. On October 15, 2005, the government, led by President Bingu wa Mutharika, declared another national disaster. Malawi has since recovered from the 2005 crisis, but it is currently facing another food shortage.\n\nScholars trace back Malawi's food crisis to 1991 and 1992, when a drought in southern Africa severely reduced Malawi's maize production. The price of maize shot up: the cost of maize, which is 54% of the average caloric intake for Malawians, almost doubled between 1992 and 1993. Although there was a maize surplus in 1993 due to improved rainfall and government-subsidized hybrid maize seed and fertilizer, food consumption did not increase because of people’s eating and coping habits during the famine.\n\nSince then, periodic droughts and floods have continued to affect Malawi. Between 1990 and 2006, there were 33 weather-related disasters, a rise from the 7 that occurred between 1970 and 1989, according to ActionAid. Malawi's economy is heavily agricultural; most people survive on their own harvest and sell the excess to make a small income. The high number and increasing severity of droughts and floods since 1990 has affected much of the country's population—farmers had little ability to adapt to or recover from disasters, making them more vulnerable to future events, and the cycle of poverty and hunger worsened. From the early 1970s to 1994, the government subsidized hybrid maize growth. When the government stopped this program because it was becoming too expensive support, maize production fell and price increased again.\n\nThe population of Malawi had increased rapidly in the decades before the food crisis. From 3 million in 1950 the population grew to 9,6 million in 1991. So at least two thirds of the people affected by this crisis, were suffering because of the population growth in the previous decades. \nThis means that two thirds of this crisis was caused by the population growth since 1950. So the number of people suffering because of the food crisis, was much higher than it would have been without the rapid population growth in the preceding decades.\n\nAfter gaining independence in 1964, Malawi was under the presidency of Hastings Banda. Although the people had voting rights, Malawi was a one-party state, and Banda was the leader of the Malawi Congress Party (MCP), the only existing party at the time. Banda therefore had the authority of a dictator, and there were many human rights violations during his reign such as the killings of political dissenters. It wasn’t until 1993 when people voted for a multiparty state that Banda and the MCP were voted out of power. A new constitution was established in 1995, creating a government with an executive, unicameral legislative, and judicial branch. In 1998, under the democratic presidency of Bakili Muluzi, the government established the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA) to manage the strategic grain reserve in disaster relief. The NFRA, a government-owned agency with a board of trustees appointed by the Malawian government, and it managed not only the physical grain reserve, but also the finances and imports and exports involved with the reserve.\n\nHowever, the NFRA quickly incurred a debt of 1 billion Malawian kwacha (MK) due to the high interest rate of 56% at which it bought 165,000 metric tons of maize, according to the IMF. In 2001, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) recommended that the government sell the grain reserve because harvest had been ample in 2000. There seemed to be little use for such a large reserve, and the grain itself was rotting. The IMF’s recommendation also came as a result of a 2000 study requested by the European Commission that showed that only 30,000-60,000 metric tons of maize would be necessary to support the country in the case of a localized disaster. Maintaining such a large supply of maize is expensive, and the study recommended developing better importation strategies in the case of an unexpectedly large food crisis. NFRA followed the IMF’s advice and sold a majority of its reserve to Kenya and Mozambique decreasing the reserve from 165,000 metric tons of maize to 60,000. One of the popular opinions about the causes of the food crisis, according to a 2002 ActionAid report, is that the food crisis was in part caused by the IMF's advice to sell the grain reserve. However, the IMF and ActionAid recognize that the grain was old and expensive to store, and at the time, it made sense to advise NFRA to sell.\n\nBy 2002, when the worst of the famine hit, the grain reserve was depleted, and the government did not have any additional resources. The situation was exacerbated by the government’s poor preparation in replenishing the reserve sources as they were used. Furthermore, private traders bought out much of the grain reserve, and resold it at excessive prices when food was scarce in 2001. The government began importing maize from neighboring countries and abroad, but the maize was slow to arrive. From congested roads to inefficiently rerouted trucks and overcrowded ports, there were a variety of transportation bottlenecks that delayed the arrival of food aid. Additionally, poor relationships with some donor countries made them slow to respond; many were suspicious of the IMF’s involvement in depleting the strategic grain reserve, and others were wary of government corruption.\n\nFurthermore, the current policies in place to address food crises are insufficient. Malawi's policies for disaster management, called the National Adaptation Programme of Action (NAPA), do not take into consideration gender and health, only agriculture and environment. Most disaster and climate change management occurs on a national level, and not all policies and practices trickle down to local communities; district leaders in Nsanje and Salima did not know that the NAPA existed when asked in 2006.\n\nIn 2009, the UN reported that 80% of Malawi’s population was rural; there are few industry- or service-related jobs. Some were able to work on large tobacco plantations, find jobs in cities, or migrate to neighboring countries for low-wage jobs, but there are few openings. Britannica Online claims that in the 2000s, over 80% of the population worked in agriculture. Approximately 33% of the national GDP came from agriculture, as well as over 50% of the export earnings (namely tobacco, sugar, tea, and cotton).\n\nADMARC, a government-owned corporation and one of the primary suppliers of maize, controlled some of the market and subsidizes food. A study by the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy found that the market price of maize increased from 4MK/kg in June 2001 to 40+MK/kg in January 2002. The daily wage for workers, however, remained the same at 20MK/day. The liberalization of the market, especially in regards to the loss of control by ADMARC, has made tracking and controlling the maize market difficult. The price of maize is dependent on the market, and the NFRA does not have the power to intervene in the market.\n\nMalawi's agricultural policies are also problematic: the country's food supply is heavily reliant on maize, and efforts to diversify crops have been unsuccessful. Therefore, a majority of its population suffered when the crop production, especially maize production, failed in 2001, because people could no longer grow food for themselves and did not have an income to purchase food.\n\nTobacco, the main export product in Malawi, has declined in international sales. Since the 1980s, its revenue has decreased by 50%, and thus the income and purchasing power of small farmers has decreased, according to the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy. In 2000/2001, many small farmers failed to repay their private and government loans. Therefore, in 2001/2002, many were unable to receive credit with which to buy seeds and fertilizer for their crops. Other efforts to strengthen the agricultural sector such as encouraging mixed land usage, improving irrigation schemes, offering crop storage and protection, constructing roads and buildings, and providing credit and marketing opportunities, have been mainly offered to estate farmers, not small farmers.\n\nPoverty is widespread in Malawi, with 50% of its population living under the poverty line of $2/day according to the World Bank. The rural poor were especially vulnerable to the food crisis because they could not afford to buy food when their harvests failed.\n\nA 2002 ActionAid report speculates that since 1994, when democracy was established in Malawi, there has been a social shift away from community solidarity. During the 1991/1992 drought, communities banded together and supported one another, giving food and employment to those that needed it. During the 2001/2002 food crisis, however, people's philosophies changed to an \"anarchic mob justice,\" an \"everyone for himself\" attitude, according to the 2002 ActionAid report.\n\nHIV/AIDS in Malawi is widespread: in 2012, the Malawian Government estimated that the disease affected about 17% of urban Malawians and 9% of rural Malawians. Households with adults affected by HIV/AIDS and households without adults due to HIV/AIDS have significantly lower agricultural productivity. Not only are those with HIV/AIDS prevented from working the fields, but other people must take care of them and a portion of the household income must go to medication and funerals. Thus, the prevalence of HIV/AIDS has made many Malawians vulnerable during the food crisis. During the 2002 famine, 70% of deaths in hospitals were due to HIV/AIDS.\n\nThe soil in Malawi is in poor condition due to many farmers' historical inability to afford fertilizer. There are few easy solutions to maintaining soil fertility; Malawi is too poor to import organic materials to restore soil nutrients, and land is too scarce to allocate large plots of land to soil restoration. Individual farmers cannot afford fertilizer for their land. Therefore, food production levels are also largely affected by declining soil fertility and land shortages.d shortage in Malawi by changing the climate. As rainfall patterns change and temperatures increase, the length of the productive growing season decreases and farmers must purchase more costly hybrid crops in order to obtain an adequate harvest. Some farmers shifted their maize season from November to December, while others shifted it earlier, in order to handle the changing weather. As aforementioned, the increasing frequency of droughts and floods has made farmers especially vulnerable to food shortages.\n\nThe rainfall in 2000/2001 and 2001/2002 was sporadic, with recurrent dry spells and floods that prevented sufficient harvests. Many farmers, in order to cope with the unpredictable weather, harvested their crops prematurely, which further decreased the crop production in 2001/2002. Furthermore, the changing weather patterns made the methods of predicting crop prediction unreliable; the existing warning systems that predicted crop production based on weather forecasts and regular crop assessments only predicted that a decrease in maize production in the 2001/2002 season would be compensated for by an increase in other crops such as roots and tubers production. However, all crops suffered in the 2001/2002 season. Thus, the government was unprepared for a food crisis in 2002.\n\nThe Malawian government implemented a fertilizer subsidy program called the Farm Input Subsidy Program (FISP) in 2005, under which the government subsidized fertilizer and seed to vulnerable farmers. Fertilizer was priced at $7 per 50 kg bag, a marked discount from the market price of $27 per 50 kg bag. A study by Michigan State University found that although the erratic rainfalls curbed the program’s effectiveness in 2005/2006, improved weather in 2007 allowed the program to flourish and Malawi had a record maize harvest of 3.4 million tons, a surplus of 1.4 million. As a result, in 2007, Malawi was able to export maize for profit and donate maize to other countries in need; Zimbabwe imported 40,000 metric tons of maize from Malawi, and Lesotho and Swaziland both received 5,000 metric tons of maize donated by Malawi.\n\nInternational and local NGOS, including the World Food Programme (WFP), the EU, UK, and USAID, donated food to Malawi after it was declared a state of disaster in 2002. In 2005, the WFP estimated that its food aid was feeding 11% of Malawi’s population.\n\nThe food crisis has made children especially vulnerable to malnutrition and disease. In 2006, UNICEF estimated that 46% of children under five were chronically malnourished and 19% were underweight. Since 1992, when the roots of the food crisis began, children’s nutritional status has not changed.\n\nIn 2001/2002 and 2005/2006, during seasons of severe food shortage, there were large cholera outbreaks throughout the country. UNICEF recognized that the outbreaks were prompted by poor hygiene and unsafe water sources compounded with the food crisis, which made people susceptible to disease. Similarly, a study conducted by Save The Children UK in February 2002 found that the food crisis affected people's health by causing swelling in the hands and feet of both adults and children.\n\nThe food shortage has resulted in several thousand hunger-related deaths; the exact numbers are unknown. Many of these deaths have further exacerbated the problem of HIV/AIDS, leaving those afflicted by the disease especially vulnerable and also producing a large orphan population. UNICEF estimates that 17% of children do not have living parents due to HIV/AIDS.\n\nDuring the peak of the food crisis, from April to May 2002, the WHO conducted a health assessment in Malawi. It found that between October 2001 and March 2002, there was an average of 1.9 deaths per 10,000 every day. There was a cholera epidemic with 33,150 detected cases and 981 deaths, a fatality rate of 3%. Yet, the number of people seeking aid at health facilities decreased by 25% in that same period. The study suggested that the health facilities were crippled by shortages of staff and drugs and poor communication and transportation systems. As people began to prioritize food security over all else, health and seeking treatment at poorly-maintained health facilities fell to the wayside.\n\nStarving people began to eat unsafe roots, maize cobs, sawdust, and boiled fruits and contracted food poisoning and other stomach illnesses. A report in The Lancet found that many families, even considerably wealthy ones, in Nsanje, a southern district in Malawi, were eating water-lily bulbs called nyika. These bulbs, which used to be considered snack foods but are now staple foods, cause diarrhea if eaten in abundance. In one instance, the eldest son of a family of ten found a collection of poisonous yams. The father gave the children and mother the yams to eat because they had no other food; he did not eat the yams himself because he prioritized his children's hunger and his wife's hunger over his own. The mother and all eight children died, one after another, due to vomiting and food poisoning.\n\nThe government's food security policy, the FISP, has raised agricultural productivity. As aforementioned, maize production surpassed domestic demand after the implementation of FISP. Between 2005 and 2011, Malawi’s GDP grew at an average of 11.7% per year, and many experts contributed the agricultural GDP growth to FISP. However, recent studies have suggested that FISP is not a sustainable program: as the number of needy households increase, the amount of fertilizer and seed provided has decreased from 85 kg per farmer in 2005/2006 to 60 kg per farmer in 2012/2013.\n\nNew food security policies were developed in 2002 and 2003. The Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy was a framework policy document intended to direct and inform budget decisions for the central government. At the heart of the policy were economic growth, human capital, safety nets, and governance; by making budget decisions that encouraged agricultural economic growth and create effective safety nets, the government could promote food security and food availability. The Ministry of Agriculture collaborated with civil society organizations, other ministries, private companies, and donors to create a Food and Nutrition Security Policy. The policy aimed to: 1) increase food availability by extending irrigation systems and access to fertilizer and land, 2) strengthen the rural market, 3) create a number of health and dietary guidelines and services, and 4) establish and strengthen disaster management plans, the strategic grain reserve, and food production monitoring/predicting systems. Finally, the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development developed a growth strategy policy that would increase access to food by promoting trade and investment in rural Malawi to increase income and employment opportunities.\n\nDuring the food crisis, people began to change their lifestyles to obtain food. Some have begun taking casual jobs in exchange for food. Many have sold household items and livestock at low prices to purchase food, making it difficult for them to regain stability after the food crisis. Some have migrated to Zambia and other neighboring countries to work for low wages or food.\n\nThe food crisis has also affected education. In some areas, the dropout rate has increased to 25% due to hunger. Many skip school in order to work or search for food, while others can no longer afford the school fees. Some teachers have complained that schools have lost their control over students because they cannot force students to stay, study, or do their homework if they are hungry and sick. UNICEF claims that in some areas where the food crisis is especially severe, one-half to three-quarters of school-aged children have stopped going to school. In response to this drop in school attendance, UNICEF and WFP began implementing programs that fed children in school and provide extra support and materials to teachers and staff. UNICEF reported that the program brought a \"great improvement\" in school attendance, in some cases even causing school buildings to overflow with children seeking food.\n\nThe overall social order has also worsened, as people have begun stealing from their neighbors, abandoning children, fighting for food, and exchanging sex for food. Theft of food and money has become much more common. In some areas, captured thieves are tortured and mutilated as punishment. The elderly, orphans, and women are increasingly vulnerable, not only because it is more difficult for them to provide for themselves, but also because they are bigger targets for theft and violence. In 2005, many women reported being attacked at the ADMARC market when purchasing their allotted 25 kg of maize. The price of sex work has decreased from MK1000 to MK200, heightening the risk for women and girls that must engage in such behaviors at a higher rate to earn money. The social structure of marriage has also changed as a result of the food crisis: many girls were forced to marry young because their families could not support them during the food crisis, leading to an increase in failed and abusive marriages. Other married men and women turned to infidelity to earn money and food, again leading to an increase in failed and abusive marriages.\n\nThere is a personal account of the famine by William Kamkwamba in his book \"The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind.\" At the age of 14, Kamkwamba dropped out of school because his family could no longer afford the tuition. He began studying electronics in the local library and realized that he could use wind power to supply electricity to his village. His first windmill was used to power light bulbs and charge cell phones; others were used to pump irrigation systems and clean water wells. His story gained national publicity in 2007, from TED talks to The Daily Show, and his windmill projects gained the support of donors from around the world. According to the memoir, the government estimate of famine deaths appears to be severely understated.\n\nThe maize harvest in 2012 decreased by 7% from 2011, and harsh flooding at the beginning of 2013 in southern Malawi destroyed 10,000 homes, according to a 2013 report by the Global Policy Forum. The Malawi Vulnerability Assessment Committee estimated in 2012–2013 that 2 million people were suffering from food shortages. In July 2012, the World Food Programme reported that \"households in parts of the country have harvested almost nothing.\" The World Bank estimated that Malawi would require at least 57,000 metric tons of maize in the 2013/2014 season in order to address the food scarcity. The price of maize increased by 162% in 2013, due to low harvest, high cost of transportation, and devaluing of the MK. In July 2013, the UK announced that it would donate $20 million to Malawi for the “looming food crisis.”\n\nADMARC rationed maize sales to 10 kg per person. The Ministry of Agriculture claimed that this policy was created to prevent vendors from buying all the maize and reselling it to the poor at higher prices. However, news reporters from Blantyre Newspapers Limited, a Malawi-based news publisher, have found that ADMARC itself may also be suffering from a grain shortage because people have reported not being able to receive even their allotted 10 kg of grain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28370160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28370160", "title": "Media coverage of global warming", "text": "Media coverage of global warming\n\nMedia coverage of global warming has had effects on public opinion on climate change, as it mediates the scientific opinion on climate change that the global instrumental temperature record shows increase in recent decades and that the trend is caused mainly by human-induced emissions of greenhouse gases. Almost all scientific bodies of national or international standing agree with this view, although a few organisations hold non-committal positions.\n\nMedia attention is especially high in carbon dependent countries with commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. The way the media report on climate change in English-speaking countries, especially in the United States, has been widely studied, while studies of reporting in other countries have been less expansive. A number of studies have shown that particularly in the United States and in the UK tabloid press, the media significantly understated the strength of scientific consensus on climate change established in IPCC Assessment Reports in 1995 and in 2001.\n\nA peak in media coverage occurred in early 2007, driven by the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report and Al Gore's documentary \"An Inconvenient Truth\". A subsequent peak in late 2009, which was 50% higher, may have been driven by a combination of the November 2009 Climatic Research Unit email controversy and December 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference.\n\nThe Media and Climate Change Observatory team at the University of Colorado Boulder found that 2017 “saw media attention to climate change and global warming ebb and flow” with June seeing the maximum global media coverage on both subjects. This rise is “largely attributed to news surrounding United States (US) President Donald J. Trump’s withdrawal from the 2015 United Nations (UN) Paris Climate Agreement, with continuing media attention paid to the emergent US isolation following through the G7 summit a few weeks later.”\n\nSome researchers and journalists believe that media coverage of political issues is adequate and fair, while a few feel that it is biased. However, most studies on media coverage of the topic are neither recent nor concerned with coverage of environmental issues. Moreover, they are only rarely concerned specifically with the question of bias.\n\nBord et al. claim that a substantial portion of the United States public has a flawed understanding of global warming, seeing it as linked to general \"pollution\" and causally connected in some way to atmospheric ozone depletion. Scientists and media scholars who express frustrations with inadequate science reporting argue that it can lead to at least three basic distortions. First, journalists distort reality by making scientific errors. Second, they distort by keying on human-interest stories rather than scientific content. And third, journalists distort by rigid adherence to the construct of balanced coverage. Bord, O’Connor, & Fisher (2000) argue that responsible citizenry necessitates a concrete knowledge of causes and that until, for example, the public understands what causes climate change it cannot be expected to take voluntary action to mitigate its effects.\n\nAccording to Shoemaker and Reese, controversy is one of the main variables affecting story choice among news editors, along with human interest, prominence, timeliness, celebrity, and proximity. Coverage of climate change has been accused of falling victim to the journalistic norm of \"personalistation\". W.L Bennet defines this trait as: \"the tendency to downplay the big social, economic, or political picture in favor of human trials, tragedies and triumphs\" The culture of political journalism has long used the notion of balanced coverage in covering controversy. In this construct, it is permissible to air a highly partisan opinion, provided this view is accompanied by a competing opinion. But recently scientists and scholars have challenged the legitimacy of this journalistic core value.\n\nThe notion of balanced coverage may make perfect sense when covering a political convention, but in the culture of science, balancing opposing views may be neither fair nor truthful. As such, many experts argue that it is misleading to give scientific mavericks or advocates equal time with established mainstream scientists.\n\nYet there is evidence that this is exactly what the media is doing. In a survey of 636 articles from four top United States newspapers between 1988 and 2002, two scholars found that most articles gave as much time to the small group of climate change doubters as to the scientific consensus view. Given real consensus among climatologists over global warming, many scientists find the media’s desire to portray the topic as a scientific controversy to be a gross distortion. As Stephen Schneider put it:\n\nScience journalism concerns itself with gathering and evaluating various types of relevant evidence and rigorously checking sources and facts. Boyce Rensberger, the director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Knight Center for Science Journalism, said, “balanced coverage of science does not mean giving equal weight to both sides of an argument. It means apportioning weight according to the balance of evidence.”\n\nThe claims of scientists also get distorted by the media by a tendency to seek out extreme views, which can result in portrayal of risks well beyond the claims actually being made by scientists. Journalists tend to overemphasize the most extreme outcomes from a range of possibilities reported in scientific articles. A study that tracked press reports about a climate change article in the journal \"Nature\" found that \"results and conclusions of the study were widely misrepresented, especially in the news media, to make the consequences seem more catastrophic and the timescale shorter.\"\n\nAlarmism is described as the use of a linguistic repertoire which communicates climate change using inflated language, an urgent tone and imagery of doom. In a report produced for the Institute for Public Policy Research Gill Ereaut and Nat Segnit reported that alarmist language is frequently employed by newspapers, popular magazine and in campaign literature put out by government and environment groups. When applied to climate change, alarmist language creates a greater sense of urgency.\n\nThe term \"alarmist\" can be used as a pejorative by critics of mainstream climate science to describe those that endorse it. MIT meteorologist Kerry Emanuel wrote that labeling someone as an \"alarmist\" is \"a particularly infantile smear considering what is at stake.\" He continued that using this \"inflammatory terminology has a distinctly Orwellian flavor.\"\n\nInstead of motivating people to action, using sensational and alarming techniques often evoke \"denial, paralysis [or] apathy\" and do not motivate people to become engaged with the issue of climate change. In the context of climate refugees—the potential for climate change to displace people—it has been reported that \"alarmist hyperbole\" is frequently employed by private military contractors and think tanks.\n\nOne way media reports attack global warming is to compare it with a purported episode of alarmism related to global cooling. In the 1970s, global cooling, a claim with limited scientific support (even during the height of the media frenzy over global cooling, \"the possibility of anthropogenic warming dominated the peer-reviewed literature\") was widely reported in the press. Several media pieces have claimed that, since the even-at-the-time-poorly-supported theory of global cooling was shown to be false, that the well-supported theory of global warming can also be dismissed. For example, an article in \"The Hindu\" by Kapista and Bashkirtsev wrote: \"Who remembers today, they query, that in the 1970s, when global temperatures began to dip, many warned that we faced a new ice age? An editorial in The Time magazine on June 24, 1974, quoted concerned scientists as voicing alarm over the atmosphere 'growing gradually cooler for the past three decades', 'the unexpected persistence and thickness of pack ice in the waters around Iceland,' and other harbingers of an ice age that could prove 'catastrophic.' Man was blamed for global cooling as he is blamed today for global warming\"., and the \"Irish Independent\" published an article claiming that \"The widespread alarm over global warming is only the latest scare about the environment to come our way since the 1960s. Let's go through some of them. Almost exactly 30 years ago the world was in another panic about climate change. However, it wasn't the thought of global warming that concerned us. It was the fear of its opposite, global cooling. The doom-sayers were wrong in the past and it's entirely possible they're wrong this time as well.\" Numerous other examples exist.\n\nAs McCombs et al.’s 1972 study of the political function of mass media showed, media coverage of an issue can “play an important part in shaping political reality”. Research into media coverage of climate change has demonstrated the significant role of the media in determining climate policy formation. The media has considerable bearing on public opinion, and the way in which issues are reported, or framed, establishes a particular discourse.\n\nIn more general terms, media coverage of climate change in the USA is related to the controversy about media ownership and fairness. While most media scholars uphold the view that the media in the USA is free and unbiased, a minority disagrees. Historian Michael Parenti, for instance, alleges that the American media serves corporate interests by \"inventing reality.\"\n\nThe relationship between media and politics is reflexive. As Feindt & Oels state, “[media] discourse has material and power effects as well as being the effect of material practices and power relations”. Public support of climate change research ultimately decides whether or not funding for the research is made available to scientists and institutions.\n\nAs highlighted above, media coverage in the United States during the Bush Administration often emphasized and exaggerated scientific uncertainty over climate change, reflecting the interests of the political elite. Hall et al. suggest that government and corporate officials enjoy privileged access to the media, so their line quickly becomes the ‘primary definer’ of an issue. Furthermore, media sources and their institutions very often have political leanings which determine their reporting on climate change, mirroring the views of a particular party. However, media also has the capacity to challenge political norms and expose corrupt behaviour, as demonstrated in 2007 when \"The Guardian\" revealed that American Enterprise Institute received $10,000 from petrochemical giant Exxon Mobil to publish articles undermining the IPCC’s 4th assessment report.\n\nEver-strengthening scientific consensus on climate change means that skepticism is becoming less prevalent in the media (although the email scandal in the build up to Copenhagen reinvigorated climate skepticism in the media).\n\nCommentators have argued that the climate change discourses constructed in the media have not been conducive to generating the political will for swift action. The polar bear has become a powerful discursive symbol in the fight against climate change. However, such images may create a perception of climate change impacts as geographically distant, and MacNaghten argues that climate change needs to be framed as an issue 'closer to home'. On the other hand, Beck suggests that a major benefit of global media is that it brings distant issues within our consciousness.\n\nFurthermore, media coverage of climate change (particularly in tabloid journalism but also more generally), is concentrated around extreme weather events and projections of catastrophe, creating “a language of imminent terror” which some commentators argue has instilled policy-paralysis and inhibited response. Moser et al. suggest using solution-orientated frames will help inspire action to solve climate change. The predominance of catastrophe frames over solution frames may help explain the apparent value-action gap with climate change; the current discursive setting has generated concern over climate change but not inspired action.\n\nBreaking the prevailing notions in society requires discourse that is traditionally appropriate and approachable to common people. For example, Bill McKibben, an environmental activist, provides one approach to inspiring action: a war-like mobilization, where climate change is the enemy. This approach would resonate with working Americans who normally find themselves occupied with other news headlines. Dispelling the capitalist commodification of the environment also requires different rhetoric that breaks certain ingrained notions concerning the human relationship with the environment. This could include incorporating traditional Indigenous knowledge that prioritizes human existence with the environment as a mutualistic and protective one.\nAdditionally, international movements in developing countries in the Global South are usually excluded in developed nations that assert hegemony over the economies of developing nations. This especially applies to the people of Latin America, that are battling multinational oil and mineral corporations that seek to cooperate with the ruling class and exploit fragile ecosystems, rather than provide real solutions to working people that mutually benefit the environment. This is apparent in Ecuador, where former President Rafael Correa, a left-leaning populist, incited “economic growth” as a reason to sell portions of the Amazon rainforest to oil companies. These popular movements usually are neglected by the United States due to corporate relationships within the political sphere of influence.\n\nCompared to what experts know about traditional media's and tabloid journalism’s impacts on the formation of public perceptions of climate change and willingness to act, there is comparatively little knowledge of the impacts of social media, including message platforms like Twitter, on public attitudes toward climate change.\n\nIn comparison to other nations, such as the United States, the Canadian Media does not create the same perception of neutrality in the balancing of voices that represent both the scientific consensus and the skeptics equally. The Canadian coverage appears to be more driven by national and international political events rather than the changes to carbon emissions or various other ecological factors\n. The discourse is dominated by matters of government responsibility, policy making, policy measures for mitigation, and ways to mitigate climate change; with the issue coverage by mass media outlets continuing to act as an important means of communicating environmental concerns to the general public.\nWithin various provincial and language media outlets, there are varying levels of articulation regarding scientific consensus and the focus on ecological dimensions of climate change\n. Within Quebec, specifically, these outlets are more likely to position climate change as an international issue, and to link climate change to social justice concerns to depict an image of Quebec as a pro-environmental society\nAcross various nations, including Canada, there has been an increased effort in the use of celebrities in climate change coverage, which is able to gain audience attention, but in turn it reinforces individualized rather than structural interpretations of climate change responsibility and solutions\n\nIn Japan, a study of newspaper coverage of climate change from January 1998 to July 2007 found coverage increased dramatically from January 2007.\n\nA 2010 study of four major, national circulation English-language newspapers in India examined \"the frames through which climate change is represented in India\", and found that \"The results strongly contrast with previous studies from developed countries; by framing climate change along a 'risk-responsibility divide', the Indian national press set up a strongly nationalistic position on climate change that divides the issue along both developmental and postcolonial lines.\"\n\nOn the other hand, a qualitative analysis of some mainstream Indian newspapers (particularly opinion and editorial pieces) during the release of the IPCC 4th Assessment Report and during the Nobel Peace Prize win by Al Gore and the IPCC found that Indian media strongly pursue scientific certainty in their coverage of climate change. This is in contrast to the skepticism displayed by American newspapers at the time. Indian media highlights energy challenges, social progress, public accountability and looming disaster.\n\nA six-month study in 1988 on climate change reporting in the media found that 80% of stories were no worse than slightly inaccurate. However, one story in six contained significant misreporting. Al Gore's film \"An Inconvenient Truth\" in conjunction with the Stern Review generated an increase in media interest in 2006.\n\nThe popular media in New Zealand often give equal weight to those supporting anthropogenic climate change and those who deny it. This stance is out of step with the findings of the scientific community where the vast majority support the climate change scenarios. A survey carried out in 2007 on climate change gave the following responses:\n\nA study of the UK tabloid press (\"The Sun\", \"Daily Express\", \"Daily Mail\", \"Daily Mirror\" and their Sunday equivalents) covering the years 2000 to 2006 found that \"UK tabloid coverage significantly diverged from the scientific consensus that humans contribute to climate change. Moreover, there was no consistent increase in the percentage of accurate coverage throughout the period of analysis and across all tabloid newspapers, and these findings are not consistent with recent trends documented in United States and UK 'prestige press' or broadsheet newspaper reporting. Findings from interviews indicate that inaccurate reporting may be linked to the lack of specialist journalists in the tabloid press.\" Another study of the same dataset found that \"news articles on climate change were predominantly framed through weather events, charismatic megafauna and the movements of political actors and rhetoric, while few stories focused on climate justice and risk. In addition, headlines with tones of fear, misery and doom were most prevalent.\"\n\nA two-year study of media coverage of climate change feedback loops found that \"non-US news organizations, especially in the UK, are at the forefront of the discourse on climate feedback loops. Poor US press coverage on such climate thresholds might be understood not only as self-censorship, but as a \"false negative\" error.\"\n\nA 2010 study looked at \"prominent, disruptive direct action around the climate change issue, in the context of comparable activity across a range of political groupings\" and found that \"they garner significant but unflattering attention from [the conventional mass media], partly as a consequence of the persistent pressures and imperatives that drive conventional journalism.\"\n\nOne of the first critical studies of media coverage of climate change in the United States appeared in 1999. The author summarized her research:Following a review of the decisive role of the media in American politics and of a few earlier studies of media bias, this paper examines media coverage of the greenhouse effect. It does so by comparing two pictures. The first picture emerges from reading all 100 greenhouse-related articles published over a five-month period (May–September 1997) in \"The Christian Science Monitor, New York Times, The San Francisco Chronicle,\" and \"The Washington Post\". The second picture emerges from the mainstream scientific literature. This comparison shows that media coverage of environmental issues suffers from both shallowness and pro-corporate bias.According to Peter J. Jacques et al., the mainstream news media of the United States is an example of the effectiveness of environmental skepticism as a tactic. A 2005 study reviewed and analyzed the US mass-media coverage of the environmental issue of climate change from 1988 to 2004. The authors confirm that within the journalism industry there is great emphasis on eliminating the presence of media bias. In their study they found that — due to this practice of journalistic objectivity — \"Over a 15-year period, a majority (52.7%) of prestige-press articles featured balanced accounts that gave 'roughly equal attention' to the views that humans were contributing to global warming and that exclusively natural fluctuations could explain the earth's temperature increase.\" As a result, they observed that it is easier for people to conclude that the issue of global warming and the accompanying scientific evidence is still hotly debated.\n\nA study of US newspapers and television news from 1995 to 2006 examined \"how and why US media have represented conflict and contentions, despite an emergent consensus view regarding\nanthropogenic climate science.\" The IPCC Assessment Reports in 1995 and in 2001 established an increasingly strong scientific consensus, yet the media continued to present the science as contentious. The study noted the influence of Michael Crichton's 2004 novel \"State of Fear\", which \"empowered movements across scale, from individual perceptions to the perspectives of US federal powerbrokers regarding human contribution to climate change.\"\n\nA 2010 study concluded that \"Mass media in the U.S. continue to suggest that scientific consensus estimates of global climate disruption, such as those from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), are 'exaggerated' and overly pessimistic. By contrast, work on the Asymmetry of Scientific Challenge (ASC) suggests that such consensus assessments are likely to understate climate disruptions [...] new scientific findings were more than twenty times as likely to support the ASC perspective than the usual framing of the issue in the U.S. mass media. The findings indicate that supposed challenges to the scientific consensus on global warming need to be subjected to greater scrutiny, as well as showing that, if reporters wish to discuss \"both sides\" of the climate issue, the scientifically legitimate 'other side' is that, if anything, global climate disruption may prove to be significantly worse than has been suggested in scientific consensus estimates to date.\"\n\nIt has been suggested that the association of climate change with the Arctic in popular media may undermine effective communication of the scientific realities of anthropogenic climate change. The close association of images of Arctic glaciers, ice, and fauna with climate change might harbor cultural connotations that contradict the fragility of the region. For example, in cultural historical narratives, the Arctic was depicted as an unconquerable, foreboding environment for explorers; in climate change discourse, the same environment is sought to be understood as fragile and easily affected by humanity.\n\nGallup's annual update on Americans' attitudes toward the environment shows a public that over the last two years has become less worried about the threat of global warming, less convinced that its effects are already happening, and more likely to believe that scientist themselves are uncertain about it occurrence. In response to one key question, 48% of Americans now believe that the seriousness of global warming is generally exaggerated, up from 41% in 2009 and 31% in 1997, when Gallup first asked the question.\n\nData from the Media Matters for America organization has shown that, despite 2015 being “a year marked by more landmark actions to address climate change than ever before,” the combined climate coverage on the top broadcast networks was down by 5% from 2014.\n\nIreland has quite a low coverage of climate change in media. a survey created shows how the Irish Times had only 0.84% of news coverage for climate change in the space of 13 years. This percentage is incredibly low compared to the rest of Europe, for example- Coverage of climate change in Ireland 10.6 stories, while the rest of Europe lies within 58.4 stories \n\n\n"}
{"id": "40048386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40048386", "title": "Military use of schools", "text": "Military use of schools\n\nMilitary use of schools is a term used to refer to the various activities that national armed forces and non-state armed groups carry out in and around schools, universities, and other education facilities, in support of their military effort. Examples of this include using a school or a university as barracks or bases, for offensive or defensive deployments, for storage of weapons or ammunition, for military training of soldiers, as observation posts, and as a detention facility.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council has encouraged all \"Member States to take concrete measures to deter such use of schools by armed forces and armed groups.\"\n\nAccording to the UN Secretary-General: \"The use of schools for military purposes puts children at risk of attack and hampers children’s right to education... Such use of schools not only results in reduced enrolment and high drop out rates, especially among girls, but also may lead to schools being considered legitimate targets for attack.\"\n\nAccording to the Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attack, between 2005 and 2015 there were instances of military use of schools in Afghanistan, Burma/Myanmar, Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Georgia, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel/Occupied Palestinian Territory, Kenya, Libya, Mali, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Somalia, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Thailand, Uganda, Ukraine, Yemen and Zimbabwe.\n\nThe 2016 UN Secretary-General’s Children and Armed Conflict report documented military use of schools in 14 countries by at least 10 national armed forces and multiple armed groups. According to the report, the following groups used schools for military purposes during 2015: Afghan National Defence and Security Forces as well as the Taliban and an ISIL-affiliated group in Afghanistan; former Séléka factions in the Central African Republic; the Colombian military and the FARC-EP in Colombia; the Congolese armed forces and armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; the Iraqi security forces and ISIL in Iraq; the Darnah Mujahideen Shura Council in Libya; armed groups in Mali; the Tatmadaw (government armed forces) in Myanmar; the Nigerian security forces and Boko Haram in Nigeria; the Armed Forces of the Philippines and paramilitary groups, and the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters in the Philippines; the Somali National Army in Somalia; the Sudan People’s Liberation Army and other government forces and the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement/Army in Opposition in South Sudan; government forces in Syria; Houthi forces, popular committees, and unknown armed groups in Yemen.\n\nUnder United Nations Security Council Resolution 1998 in 2011, the Security Council urged \"parties to armed conflict to refrain from actions that impede children’s access to education,\" and requested that the UN Secretary-General \"monitor and report ... on the military use of schools ... in contravention of international humanitarian law...\".\n\nUnder United Nations Security Council Resolution 2143 in 2014, the Security Council expressed \"deep concern at the military use of schools in contravention of applicable international law, recognizing that such use may render schools legitimate targets of attack, thus endangering children's and teacher's safety as well as children's education.\" Further, the Security Council urged \"all parties to armed conflict to respect the civilian character of schools in accordance with international humanitarian law;\" encouraged \"Member States to consider concrete measures to deter the use of schools by armed forces and armed non-State groups in contravention of applicable international law;\" urged \"Member States to ensure that attacks on schools in contravention of international humanitarian law are investigated and those responsible duly prosecuted;\" and called \"upon United Nations country-level task forces to enhance the monitoring and reporting on the military use of schools.\"\n\nIn 2015, the Security Council strengthened its language and in Resolution 2225 encouraged all \"Member States to take concrete measures to deter such use of schools by armed forces and armed groups.\"\n\nThe legality of military use of schools is governed by a combination of international humanitarian law (also known at the \"law of armed conflict\"), international human rights law, and domestic law.\n\nMilitary use of schools is restricted, but not always prohibited, by international humanitarian law. Parties to an armed conflict are required, to the maximum extent feasible, to a) avoid locating military objectives within or near densely populated areas, including where schools and universities are likely to be located; b) endeavour to remove the civilian population, individual civilians and civilian objects under their control from the vicinity of military objectives; and c) take the other necessary precautions to protect those schools and universities under their control against the dangers resulting from military operations.\n\nAccording to the UN Special Representative to the Secretary-General on Children and Armed Conflict: \"International humanitarian law prohibits armed forces and groups from using schools while children and teachers are using them for educational purposes.\" And according to Human Rights Watch it is \"unlawful to use a school simultaneously as an armed stronghold and as an educational center.\"\n\nUnder the Fourth Geneva Convention, applicable during international armed conflicts, an occupying power shall, with the cooperation of the national and local authorities, \"facilitate the proper working of all institutions devoted to the care and education of children.\"\n\nUnder Additional Protocol II, applicable during non-international armed conflicts, it is a \"fundamental guarantee\" that children shall receive an education, in keeping with the wishes of their parents.\n\nThe Roerich Pact states that \"[E]ducational … institutions shall be considered as neutral and as such respected and protected by belligerents … The same respect and protection shall be accorded to … educational … institutions in time of peace as well as in war.\"\n\nInternational human rights law guarantees students, teachers, and education staff the right to life, personal liberty, and security. States are also required to ensure to the maximum extent possible the survival and the development of children.\n\nMoreover, everyone has the right to education. With a view to achieving the full realisation of this right, states shall make primary education compulsory and available free to all; secondary education generally available and accessible to all; and higher education equally accessible to all on the basis of capacity. Under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, states are required to take measures to encourage regular attendance by children at schools and the reduction of child drop-out rates.\n\nExplaining the right to education provided for by the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the UN's Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has stated that \"There is a strong presumption of impermissibility of any retrogressive measures taken in relation to the right to education… If any deliberately retrogressive measures are taken, the State party has the burden of proving that they have been introduced after the most careful consideration of all alternatives and that they are fully justified by reference to the totality of the rights provided for in the Covenant and in the context of the full use of the State party's maximum available resources.\"\n\nThe Committee on the Rights of the Child, the body of independent experts who review countries' adherence to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, has responded to evidence of military use of schools by calling for its cessation, the impartial investigation and prosecution of those responsible,; for any damage caused to be promptly and fully restored. and for the prohibition of military use of schools in domestic legislation.\n\nThe Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, the body of independent experts who review countries’ adherence to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, has also called for the prohibition of occupation of schools by security forces in areas affected by armed conflict, in response to evidence of sexual harassment of girls and school drop-out due to the presence of security forces on school grounds and for the prohibition of military use of schools in domestic legislation.\n\nSome countries have adopted legislation banning or restricting the military use of schools and/or universities. Some national armed forces and non-state armed groups have banned or regulated the practice, through military manuals or general orders. Meanwhile, domestic courts have also called upon national forces to vacate schools.\n\nArgentina's \"Higher Education Law\" (1995): \"Public forces cannot enter the national universities without prior written order from a competent court or a request from the lawfully constituted university authority.\"\n\nEcuador's \"Higher Education Law\" (2010): \"The campuses of universities and polytechnics are inviolable... When the protection of public forces is needed, the legal representative of the institution will request the relevant assistance… Those who violate these campuses will be sanctioned in accordance with law.\"\n\nIndia's \"Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act\" (1952): \"[N]o property or part thereof … exclusively used … as a school, … or for the purpose of accommodation of persons connected with the management of … such school, … shall be requisitioned.\"\n\nIreland's \"Defence Act\" (1954): \"Nothing in this section [on military manoeuvres] shall authorize … the entry on or interference with (except to the extent of using any road) any … school…[or] ground attached to any … school…\"\n\nThe Philippines \"Act Providing for Stronger Deterrence and Special Protection against Child Abuse, Exploitation, and Discrimination\" (1992): Public infrastructure such as schools … shall not be utilized for military purposes such as command posts, barracks, detachments, and supply depots…\"\n\nPoland's \"Armed Forces of Poland Accommodation Act\" (1995): \"The following types of real property are not subject to temporary quartering: … real property of institutions of higher education…\"\n\nColombia, \"General Commander of the Military Forces order of 6 July 2010\": \"Considering International Humanitarian Law norms, it is considered a clear violation of the Principle of Distinction and the Principle of Precaution in attacks and, therefore a serious fault, the fact that a commander occupies or allows the occupation by his troops, of … public institutions such as education establishments…\"\n\nPhilippines, \"Armed Forces of the Philippines Letter Directive No. 34\", 24 November 2009: \"To attain this objective, all [Armed Forces of the Philippines] personnel shall strictly abide and respect the following: … Basic infrastructure such as schools ... shall not be utilized for military purposes such as command posts, barracks, detachments, and supply depots.\"\n\nSouth Sudan, \"Order from Deputy Chief of General Staff for Moral Orientation\", 16 April 2012: \"This act of occupation [of schools by our army] is deplorable and it is [in] violation of our law of land. Besides, you are depriving our children from the much needed \neducation… I hereby order you to urgently evacuate the … schools occupied by the \nforces under your direct commands… Failure to evacuate the above mentioned \nschools will lead to severe disciplinary actions and the act is a serious violation of the \nlaw of our land which shall bear regrettable implications…\"\n\nUnited Kingdom \"Joint Service Manual of the Law of Armed Conflict\" (2004): \"[T]he better view is that the law also prohibits: … the use of cultural property for purposes which are likely to expose it to destruction or damage in armed conflict, unless there is no feasible alternative to such use… Cultural property includes … institutions dedicated to … education…\"\n\nUnited States \"Field Manual 27-10\" (1956): \"The United States and certain of the American Republics are parties to the so-called [Roerich] Pact, which accords a neutralized and protected status to … educational … institutions in the event of war between such States.\"\n\nConstitutional Court of Colombia, \"Yenys Osuna Montes v. the Mayor of Zambrano Municipality\": \"[T]he city’s mayor should prevent members of the State security forces from \nentering the school premises to conduct practices, trainings or to mount weapons, \nammunition or deploy armed personnel, as this would increase the danger to the \nstudent community.\"\n\nSupreme Court of India, \"Exploitation of Children in Orphanages in the State of Tamil Nadu v. Union of India and others\": \"[I]t should be ensured that the school buildings and hostels are not allowed to be occupied by the armed or security forces in future for whatsoever purpose…\"\n\nInternational humanitarian law binds non-state armed groups that are engaged in an armed conflict. To regulate the conduct of their forces, many such groups issue orders, directives, principles, rules, or make declarations of their intentions to adhere to certain standards.\n\nThe Free Syrian Army, Syria: \"[O]ccupation [of schools] by military forces represents a direct violation of domestic and international law… [T]he Free Syrian Army today states its official position prohibiting the militarization of schools and... and will amend its Proclamation of Principles to reflect the same. This statement will be circulated among all of our battalions and guide the actions of our members. Any individuals found to violate the principles listed in our proclamation will be held accountable, in accordance with international law. - Declaration signed by President of Syrian Opposition Coalition and Chief of Staff of Supreme Military Council, Free Syrian Army, April 30, 2014\n\nNational Coalition of Syrian Revolution and Opposition Forces, Syria: \"We affirm our responsibility to respect International Humanitarian Law at all times including … the responsibilities to … [r]espect and protect schools and hospitals, and refrain from using in them in support of the military effort, including by locating military objectives within or near them.\" — National Coalition of Syrian Revolution and Opposition Forces, Declaration of Commitment on Compliance with IHL and the Facilitation of Humanitarian Assistance, 2014\n\nThirteen non-state actors have signed the \"Deed of Commitment for the Protection of Children from the Effects of Armed Conflict\" developed by the non-governmental organization Geneva Call, which includes the provision: \" \"We will … avoid using for military purposes schools or premises primarily used by children.\". As of March 23, 2015, the following parties have signed this instrument: Chin National Front/Army (CNF/CNA) [Burma/Myanmar]; Karen National Union/Karen National Liberation Army (KNU/KNLA) [Burman/Myanmar]; Karenni National Progressive Party/Karenni Army (KNPP/KA) [Burma/Myanmar] ; New Mon State Party/Mon National Liberation Army (NMSP/ MNLA) [Burma/Myanmar]; Pa’O National Liberation Organization / Pa-o National Liberation Army (PNLO/PNLA) [Burma/Myanmar]; National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khole-Kitovi) (NSCN-KK) [India]; Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (PDKI) [Iran]; \nKomala Party of Iranian Kurdistan (KPIK) [Iran], Komala Party of Kurdistan (KPK) [Iran], Komalah-The Kurdistan Organization of the Communist Party for Iran, Komalah-The Kurdistan Organization of the Communist Party for Iran (KDP-Iran) [Iran]; Democratic Self-Administration in Rojava / People’s Protection Units / Women’s Protection Units (YPG-YPJ) [Syria]; People’s Defence Forces/Kurdistan Worker’s Party (HPG/PKK))[Turkey].\n\nOn 26–28 November 2012, experts from around the world met at Lucens Castle in Lucens, Switzerland, to discuss developing international guidelines to better protect schools and universities from military use. The resulting document is known as the \"Draft Lucens Guidelines for Protecting Schools and Universities from Military Use during Armed Conflict\". The author of the Draft Lucens Guidelines is Professor Steven Haines, Chair of Public International Law in the University of Greenwich in London who served for over 30 years as an officer in the British Armed Forces. Throughout the drafting process, over thirty states and international organizations made public statements in support of the initiative.\n\nIn June 2014, Norway announced that it would lead the process to finalize the \"Guidelines\" and promote their endorsement and implementation.\n\nThe final \"Guidelines for Protecting Schools and Universities from Military Use during Armed Conflict\" were unveiled in December 2014 in Geneva at a meeting organized by Norway and Argentina. The \"Guidelines\" urge parties to armed conflict not to use schools and universities for any purpose in support of their military effort. While acknowledging that certain uses would not be contrary to the law of armed conflict, the \"Guidelines\" outline concrete measures as a guide to responsible practice for all parties to conflict to avoid impinging on students’ safety and education. A Safe Schools Declaration was developed through consultations led by Norway and Argentina throughout the first half of 2015. The Declaration provides States the opportunity to express broad political support for the protection and continuation of education in armed conflict, and for the implementation of the Guidelines. The Safe Schools Declaration was opened for endorsement at an international conference in Oslo on May 29, 2015. \n\nIn her 2014 annual report to the UN Human Rights Council, Leila Zerrougui, the Special Representative to the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, welcomed the release of the \"Guidelines for Protecting Schools and Universities from Military Use during Armed Conflict\" and encouraged Member States to adopt them.\"<ref name=\"A/HRC/28/54\"></ref>\n"}
{"id": "21535619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21535619", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture (Zimbabwe)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture (Zimbabwe)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture \"(MOA)\" is a government ministry, responsible for agriculture in Zimbabwe, (including the management of agricultural land use but not land reform). The head of Air Force of Zimbabwe Perence Shiri is the current incumbent minister while the former deputy minister is Davis \nMarapira. The ministry is located in Harare. It oversees:\nhttps://world.greekreporter.com/2018/09/24/greek-from-kefalonia-a-rising-star-in-zimbabwes-politics/\nDouglass Karoro is a Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture , Climate and Rural Resettlement. https://www.pindula.co.zw/Douglass_Karoro\n\nState corporations under the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture include:\n\nThe following have served as Minister of Agriculture:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17868729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17868729", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture of Peru", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture of Peru\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MINAGRI) is an institution of the Peruvian Government in charge of the agricultural sector. Its headquarters are located in the nation's capital, Lima. Currently, Gustavo Mostajo is Peru's Minister of Agriculture and Irrigation. \n\nIt was created by Law 9711 on January 2, 1943 by the government of president Manuel Prado Ugarteche. Its main function is the overseeing and regulation of the agrarian sector of the country. \n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation is organized into:\n\n1. Fortify agriculturally producing organizations and to promote their integration under the focus of managing watersheds and production chains.\n\n2. Encouraging technological innovations and training directed towards agricultural producers by providing technical assistance.\n\n3. Establishing a system of agricultural information allowing producers to have an efficient decision-making process for their business.\n\n4. Facilitate agricultural producers with access to legal, administrative, management, financial, technical, sanitary, and other assistance permitting the producer to better their enterprise.\n\n5. To facilitate the articulation of smallholder agriculture to a market economy, by establishing policies for the proper use of natural resources.\n\n"}
{"id": "37195952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37195952", "title": "Motion 312", "text": "Motion 312\n\nMotion 312 was a motion introduced to the Parliament of Canada by Stephen Woodworth, MP for Kitchener Centre, in 2012.\n\nM-312 called for the formation of a committee \"to review the declaration in Subsection 223(1) of the Criminal Code which states that a child becomes a human being only at the moment of complete birth\".\n\nGroups opposing legal abortion, such as the Campaign Life Coalition, supported Motion 312.\n\nGroups supporting legal abortion, such as the Abortion Rights Coalition of Canada, opposed Motion 312.\n\nNumerous labour unions in Canada opposed Motion 312. This includes the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) and the Telecommunications Workers Union (TWU).\n\nMotion 312 was defeated with a vote of 203-91 against.\n"}
{"id": "2457788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2457788", "title": "Muldergate", "text": "Muldergate\n\nThe Muldergate scandal, also known as the Information Scandal, was a South African political scandal involving the Department of Information.\n\nSouth African Prime Minister B. J. Vorster, Dr. Connie Mulder (Minister of Information) and Dr. Eschel Rhoodie (Secretary of the Department of Information) were implicated in plans to use government resources to fight a propaganda war for the then apartheid government. In 1973 John Vorster had agreed to Mulder's plan to shift about 64 million rand from the defense budget to undertake a series of propaganda projects. Plans included bribes of international news agencies and the purchase of the \"Washington Star\" newspaper.\n\nVorster was also implicated in the use of a secret slush fund to establish \"The Citizen\", the only major English-language newspaper that was favourable to the National Party.\n\nA commission of inquiry concluded in mid-1979 that Vorster knew \"everything\" about the corruption and had tolerated it. He resigned from the presidency in disgrace.\n\nRees, M and Day, C. Muldergate: The story of the info scandal. Macmillan: Johannesburg, 1989\n"}
{"id": "39808259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39808259", "title": "Nelson–Blenheim notional railway", "text": "Nelson–Blenheim notional railway\n\nThe Nelson–Blenheim notional railway (1957–1979) was part of the political management of the backlash from the New Zealand Railways Department's closure of the isolated Nelson Section, which ended hopes for a southern connection of Nelson to the rest of the South Island railway network.\n\nThe Nelson Section was an isolated, 3 ft 6 in (1,067 mm) gauge, government-owned railway line running south from Nelson to Glenhope in the Tasman district of New Zealand's South Island. Begun in 1876, it reached Glenhope, about 96 km south of Nelson, in 1912. Desultory work beyond Glenhope went on until 1931, but the Nelson section was never connected to the rest of the South Island rail network. \n\nWhile the line was profitable in its early years, falling revenues and increasing costs of maintenance resulted in closure in 1955, despite protest meetings, sit-ins to stop demolition trains, and a 12,000 strong petition calling for the re-opening of the line and an investigation of an alternative link-up with the rest of the network via a line to Blenheim.\n\nIn response to the call for an alternative connection to the rest of the South Island network, Prime Minister Sidney Holland promised completion of a survey of possible northern routes from Nelson to Blenheim, and reports on other potential routes via the West Coast. A decision on a rail link would be made after the surveys and reports were completed. In the meantime, in recognition of transport problems caused by Nelson's lack of a rail connection, Prime Minister Holland announced the government would subsidise the cost of transporting passengers and goods by road between Nelson and Blenheim so that the charges to the users would be the same as if a railway already existed. \n\nSo on 4 November 1957, with an eye to the imminent general election, the National government announced that State Highway 6 between Blenheim and Nelson would be deemed by law to be a 'notional railway', connecting with the rest of the South Island network at Blenheim. Various points on the highway were designated as stations. This meant that passenger fares and freight rates from any railway station in the South Island to designated stations on the notional railway, or to Nelson, were calculated as if there were continuous railway mileage between the two points, even though in reality passengers or freight travelling on the notional railway were transported by road carriers. As rail rates for both passengers and freight were significantly cheaper than road carrier rates, this was obviously to the user's advantage.\n\nFrom the start the scheme inflicted significant costs on the government via the Railways Department, and later via the Department of Internal Affairs who took over administering the scheme in the early 1960s. \n\nThe first year of operation cost the Railways Department ₤105,000. However, unlike a real railway that can benefit from attracting more custom, and hence more revenue, the more patronage the notional railway attracted the greater the subsidy paid by the Railways Department or (later) by the Department of Internal Affairs – and ultimately, by the taxpayer. In the 1972 fiscal year the government paid $660,745 in subsidies to keep the notional railway in existence.\n\nOn 1 March 1960 the Labour government, elected with a one-seat majority in 1957, broke ground on a line from Nelson to Blenheim. In Nelson reclamation work was begun to create space for a new station and rail yards. However the Labour government lasted only one three-year term, and on 14 December 1960 the new National Party Prime Minister Keith Holyoake announced that all work on the Nelson–Blenheim line was to stop immediately, and the enabling legislation would be repealed in the first session of the new parliament.\n\nThis ended all hopes of Nelson being connected to the rest of the railway network by a line of rail. Despite this, the Nelson–Blenheim notional railway persisted for another 19 years until the subsidy was finally abolished on 1 October 1979, by which time it was costing around $10 million a year to run.\n\n"}
{"id": "45648641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45648641", "title": "No Land Tax Campaign", "text": "No Land Tax Campaign\n\nThe No Land Tax Campaign was a minor Australian political party formed prior to the 2015 New South Wales state election. It was formed in opposition to the levying of land tax, which in New South Wales applies to investment properties and holiday homes. The party achieved 1.90% of Legislative Council and 2.02% of Legislative Assembly votes at the election, but its failure to honour a promise to 3,600 workers to pay them $30 an hour ultimately led to legal trouble for the party. \n\nThe party letterboxed homes in some parts of New South Wales with a flyer bearing the state's coat of arms, and advertising a website \"electionwork.com.au\". The website offered $30 an hour to \"reliable, enthusiastic people\" to hand out flyers and approach voters — bonuses were offered if candidates achieved certain vote levels. The Electoral Commissioner, Colin Barry, commented that in 30 years, he had never seen a situation like it: \"I'm not aware of any political party paying people to hand out material on election day. This was a very novel approach to say the least.\"\n\nThrough the ensuing months, Peter Jones, the party secretary, repeatedly promised to pay the 3,600 workers, blaming delays on various administrative and other causes. However, no money was paid and the party's website was taken offline. In August 2015, following an investigation which commenced in May, the Fair Work Ombudsman announced that they were taking legal action against Jones and the party, accusing them of a lack of co-operation. On 12 December 2017, the Federal Circuit Court fined Jones $13,315 and the party $67,575. Jones admitted contravening the workplace laws, but was criticised by the judge for his arrogant attitude and lack of remorse.\n\nThe party was registered with the NSW Electoral Commission in March 2014, and deregistered on 15 July 2015.\n\nhttp://www.2gb.com/article/ray-hadley-no-land-tax-party\n"}
{"id": "5404771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5404771", "title": "Nyaya panchayat", "text": "Nyaya panchayat\n\nA Nyaya Panchayat is a system of dispute resolution at village level in India. Nyaya panchayats can be endowed with functions based on broad principles of natural justice and can tend to remain procedurally as simple as possible. They can be given civil and minor criminal jurisdiction. But they should never follow civil and criminal procedure code in toto.\n\nThe earliest nyaya panchayats were the village courts established under the \"Village Courts Act of 1888\". The \"Royal Commission on Decentralisation\" of 1909, recommended of revival of nyaya panchayats having both civil and criminal jurisdiction in petty cases arising within the village. In May 1915, by a resolution passed by the Government of India, the matters regarding the establishmentof nyaya panchayat was left to the State Government. In 1920, \"Bombay Village Panchayat Act\" was passed and that resulted in the conduct of a series of panchayat adalats. But select committee of the legislative council opposed the investing of judicial powers on panchayats. In 1933, a village bench consisting of elected members and outsiders were created as per provisions of the \"Bombay Village Panchayat Act\" in Bombay. Since independence, almost all States enforced Village Panchayat Acts as guided by the directive principles and have resulted in the creation of statutory nyaya panchayat legislation. The village Panchayat and nyaya panchayat existed as dual entities in order to have separation of judiciary from the executive.\n\nLegislation to formalize these bodies and bring them within the ambit of organised justice in India was planned as part of the Panchayati Raj reforms of Rajiv Gandhi in the 1980s, but was put on hold to coincide with broader reform of the justice system, which was never carried out. Following the victory of the Congress Party-led United Progressive Alliance in the 2004 General Elections, the National Advisory Council advised the Government of India to introduce legislation. To draft legislation in this regard a drafting committee, under the chairmanship of Professor Upendra Baxi, has been formed by the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, Government of India. The bill on the issue is proposed to be debated in the winter session of the Indian Parliament. \n\nSince a forum for the resolution of disputes with the participation of people in local justice administration is the goal envisaged by Article 39A of the Constitution of India, it is strongly felt by some jurists and social scientists that it is incumbent on the government to take immediate steps to activate nyaya panchayats, given that it might not be possible to render access justice in rural areas simpler and quicker. It is also argued that nyaya panchayats guided by local traditions, culture and behavioural pattern of the village community instill confidence in the people towards the administration of justice.\n\nThe Law Commission, in its August 1986 (Chapter V para. 5.3) indicating that nyaya panchayats made precisely this point, observing that \"“Article 39A of the Constitution of India directs the State to secure that the operation of the legal system promotes justice, on a basis of equal opportunity, and shall, in particular provide free legal aid, by suitable legislation or schemes or in any other way, to ensure that opportunities for securing justice are not denied to any citizen by economic or other disabilities. This is the constitutional imperative. Denial of justice on the grounds of economic and other disabilities is in nutshell referred to what has been known as problematic access to law. The Constitution now commands us to remove impediments to access to justice in a systematic manner. All agencies of the Government are now under a fundamental obligation to enhance access to justice. Article 40 which directs the State to take steps to organise village panchayats and endow them with such powers and authority as may be necessary to enable them to function as units of self-government, has to be appreciated afresh in the light of the mandate of the new article 39A.”\"the law evensays that there should not be khap panchayat\n\nWith a rapid increase in the number of people approaching the courts, the primary concern faced by the Judiciary is the escalation in the amount of new cases coming in and an ever-increasing backlog, which seems to have assumed insurmountable propositions making access to justice to the public at large a far delayed and long drawn process. There are more than three crore cases pending before the various courts of India as stated by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India.\n\nThe following considerations seem to have prompted the Law Commission and the Study Team on nyaya panchayats to recommend the revitalisation of nyaya panchayats: (The Law Commission, Fourteenth Report and the Report of the Study Team on nyaya panchayats extracted from an article written by K.N. Chandrasekharan Pillai titled “Criminal Jurisdiction of nyaya panchayats” Journal of the Indian Law Institute Vol. 19, October–December 1977 p. 443)\n\nHon’ble Justice S.B Sinha, Judge Supreme Court of India, emphasising the importance of nyaya panchayats in a lecture delivered to District Judges observed that, “There is also a need to deliberate on the methodologies to be adopted for encouraging justice dispensation through the traditional forum of Panchayats. This age-old institution has found new vigour with the introduction of the 73rd Amendment to the Constitution, and most accordingly to be considered another pillar in the edifice that symbolizes justice. Strengthening the institution of Panchayats and empowering people at the grass-root level to resolve their disputes amicably would solve many of the problems that is faced by conventional justice dispensation machinery in its attempts to percolate to the lowest levels. This would provide a, solution to the problems of access to those living in remote regions.”\n\nCertain states like Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have already made provisions for establishing village courts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2547907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2547907", "title": "OutFront Minnesota", "text": "OutFront Minnesota\n\nOutFront Minnesota is a LGBT rights organization in the state of Minnesota in the United States. The organization is community-based and uses memberships and other fundraising to support its activities, as well as receiving support from foundations and corporations.\n\nOutFront Minnesota is a member of United ENDA, a national campaign to ensure transgender persons are included in national employment nondiscrimination legislation. The organization works in coalition with approximately 30 state and national partners in the GLBT and progressive movements.\n\nOutFront Minnesota's staff is overseen by a board of directors, and works with hundreds of volunteers each year. The organization is a member of the Equality Federation. In early 2008, OutFront Minnesota experienced the departure of its longtime founding executive director, Ann DeGroot. Monica Meyer is the current executive director.\n\nOutFront Minnesota's Mission Statement is \"to create a state where lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer people are free to be who they are, love who they love, and live without fear of violence, harassment or discrimination.\"\n\nOutFront Minnesota provides a\nhost of unique programs to support the LGBTQIA and allied community including Anti-Violence, Community Organizing, Legal, Education and Training, and Public Policy which includes lobbying the state legislature.\n\nThe goal of the Anti-Violence Programs (AVP) is to end violence LGBTQIA+ community in the state of Minnesota. The AVP use an inter-sectional lens to honor and understand survivor's experiences. The organization hopes to create a safe environment for all individual but specifically focuses on issues relative to sexual orientation or gender performance. They AVP works to increase anti-violence education within the LGBTQIA+ community. Additionally, the AVP gives survivor's the capabilities to file and report instances of violence.\n\nOutFront sponsors a lobby day in the state capitol in St. Paul called \"justFair Lobby Day\", at which constituents from across Minnesota gather at the Minnesota State Capitol to meet with their representatives.OutFront also tries to empower youth to get involved with in their community by hosting a Youth Summit. The Youth Summit is organized and run by adolescent activists. Students gave lectures about the LGBTQIA+ community and activism examples of past lecture topic where; Mental Health, LGBTQ Movement beyond Marriage, Intersections of Identity, Black Lives Matter, etc.\n\nIn 2015, OutFront Minnesota launched their \"Minnesota School Pride GSA Network\". The \"Minnesota School Pride GSA Network\" is a statewide GSA program created to connect queer youth within the state of Minnesota.\n\nOutFront Minnesota, with the support of Sen. Allan Spear and Rep. Karen Clark, led the effort to amend the state's Human Rights Act to include sexual orientation and gender identity, a change which was achieved in 1993.\n\nOutFront Minnesota also led a successful three-year campaign to defeat an anti-equality constitutional amendment to bar Minnesota's same-sex couples from marrying. On May 14, 2013, there was a 37-30 bipartisan vote to allow same-sex couples to marry Executive Director Monica Meyer stated on the matter, \"We want to thank House Speaker Thissen, Senate Majority Leader Bakk and all of the legislators who voted yes -- and, of course, Governor Dayton who has been so supportive of LGBT equality. We also want to thank each and every person who dedicated their time and energy to make this happen.\"\n\nOutFront Minnesota worked with individuals to use personal stories to lobby the Minnesota legislature. OutFront Minnesota helped Minnesota become the twelfth state to legalize same-sex marriage.\n\nBefore the Safe School Act was signed into law 2014, Minnesota had relatively weak anti-bullying policies. The \"Safe and Supportive school Act\" was passed on April 4, 2014 with a 36-31 vote after hours of long debate in the Minnesota Senate.\n\nOutFront Minnesota lobbied the state of Minnesota legislature for education reform. Anti-bullying legislation became a larger issue within the state of Minnesota, as a result of a string of bullying incidents within Anoka County. The bullying incidents became so severe within the county that the United States Judicial department became involved. The Safe and Support School Act protected from; religious, racial, gender identity, and sexual orientation discrimination.\n\nThe act does not mandate private or home school to follow the law. After hours of debate the Safe and Supportive Act was passed. A compromise that occurred that the law no longer required school to report and collect date about these bullying cases. Additionally under the compromise, school districts did not have train volunteers. Much of the opposition toward the legislation came from the Minnesota Republican Party. This contention spurred from the cost of the law, and inclusion of sexual orientation. The estimated cost of the Safe and Support Schools Act was to around $19 billion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16756681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16756681", "title": "Peace of Acilisene", "text": "Peace of Acilisene\n\nThe Peace of Acilisene was a treaty between the East Roman Empire and the Sassanid Empire sometime between 384 and 390 (usually dated to 387) which divided Greater Armenia between these two empires. Persia received the greater share. By this treaty the Byzantine Empire/East Roman Empire also finally admitted the loss of Kartli-Iberia to Sassanid Iran. From this point on, Iranian influence grew once again in eastern Georgia, and Zoroastrianism appeared to have become something like the second established religion alongside Christianity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "887561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=887561", "title": "Plantocracy", "text": "Plantocracy\n\nA plantocracy, also known as a slavocracy, is a ruling class, political order or government composed of (or dominated by) plantation owners. \n\nA number of early European colonies in the New World were largely plantocracies, usually consisting of a small European settler population relying on a predominantly West African chattel slave population (as well as smaller numbers of indentured servants, both European and non-European in origin), and later, freed Black and poor white sharecroppers for labor. These plantocracies proved to be a decisive force in the anti-abolitionist movement. \n\nOne prominent organization largely representing (and collectively funded by) a number of plantocracies was the \"West India Interest\", which lobbied in the British Parliament. It is credited (or conversely, discredited) in constituting a significant impetus in delaying the abolition of the slave trade from taking place in the 1790s to being implemented in 1806-1808; and likewise, with respect to prospects of emancipation being proclaimed in the 1820s (instead, a policy known as \"Amelioration\" was formally adopted throughout 1823-1833), to it being implemented in 1834-1838.\n\n"}
{"id": "493834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=493834", "title": "Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThe Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the three-member body which collectively serves as head of state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nAccording to the Article V of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of three members: one Bosniak and one Croat elected from the Federation and one Serb elected from Republika Srpska. Together, they serve one four-year term.\n\nThe member with the most votes becomes the chairperson unless he or she was the incumbent chairman at the time of the election, but the chairmanship rotates every eight months, to ensure equality.\n\nThe Presidency is responsible for:\n\nMore than 95% of population of Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to one of its three constituent nations: Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats. According to the Constitution, the Presidency consists of three members: one Bosniak and one Croat elected from the Federation and one Serb elected from the Republika Srpska.\n\n\n\n1. Ejup Ganić - representing Yugoslavs\n\n1. Momčilo Krajišnik \n2. Mariofil Ljubić - as Deputy Speaker\n3. Miro Lazović \n\n1. Jure Pelivan \n2. Mile Akmadžić \n3. Haris Silajdžić \n\n1. Hasan Efendić \n\n1. Sefer Halilović \n\n1. Rasim Delić \n\nWhen the country declared independence in 1992, the Presidency consisted of:\n\nOver the course of the Bosnian War, the Presidency underwent several changes: the Serb members Plavšić and Koljević, as well as the Croat member Boras, left the Presidency early on and were replaced by Nenad Kecmanović, Mirko Pejanović and Ivo Komšić, respectively. Kecmanović soon also left, and was replaced by Tatjana Ljujić-Mijatović. After a while, Abdić was replaced with Nijaz Duraković.\n\nElected members:\n\nElected members:\n\nŽivko Radišić with 52% of the Serb vote was elected chairman of the collective presidency for the first 8 months; Ante Jelavić with 52% of the Croat vote followed Radišić in the rotation; Alija Izetbegović with 87% of the Bosniak vote won the highest number of votes in the election but was ineligible to serve a second term until Radišić and Jelavić had each served a first term as Chairman of the Presidency. Ante Jelavić was replaced by Jozo Križanović for the remainder of his term based on a decision issued by Wolfgang Petritsch, High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nElected members:\n\nMirko Šarović with 35.5% of the Serb vote was elected chairman of the collective presidency for the first eight months; Dragan Čović received 61.5% of the Croat vote; Sulejman Tihić received 37% of the Bosniak vote.\n\nMirko Šarović resigned in 2003 due to his implication in the scandal regarding the selling of arms to Iraq. The Parliament replaced him with Borislav Paravac.\n\nDragan Čović was dismissed by the High Representative Paddy Ashdown, after Čović was indicted for financial corruption; however, the trial hasn't taken place yet. The Parliament replaced him with Ivo Miro Jović.\n\nElected members:\n\nElected members:\n\nElected members:\n\nElected members:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997571", "title": "Registrar of Companies", "text": "Registrar of Companies\n\nA registrar of companies is a public authority which is responsible for managing a companies register.\n\nThe Registrar of Companies for England, Wales & Scotland is the official responsible for Companies House, which deals with all filings relating to the Companies Act 1985 to 2006. Companies House ensures that the document filings are kept up to date and deals with any breaches of the Companies Act.\n\nThe Registrar of Companies for England & Wales is Louise Smyth, who is based at Companies House, Cardiff. \n\nThe Registrar of Companies for Scotland is Lisa Davis, who is based at Companies House, Edinburgh.\n\nThe Registrar of Companies for Northern Ireland is Helen Shilliday, and her office is based in Belfast.\n\nIndia has one registrar of companies for each of the below regions. Each state typically has one registrar office or shares an office with neighbouring states and/or union territories. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are the only states to have two offices and two registrar of companies. Puducherry is the only union territory to have its own office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2840261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2840261", "title": "Religious rejection of politics", "text": "Religious rejection of politics\n\nReligious rejection of politics is a philosophy that can be found in several religions, such as Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Taoism, Hinduism, and Buddhism. Followers of this philosophy may withdraw from politics for several reasons, including the view that politics is artificial, divisionary, or corrupt.\n\nSeveral religious groups reject any involvement in politics. Many Taoists have rejected political involvement on the grounds that it is insincere or artificial and a life of contemplation in nature is preferable, while some ascetic schools of Hinduism or Buddhism also reject political involvement for similar reasons. \n\nIn Christianity, some groups like Jehovah's Witnesses, the Amish, the Hutterites, and the Exclusive Brethren reject politics on the grounds that they believe Christ's statements about the kingdom not being of the world mean that earthly politics can or should be rejected. Not necessarily all forms of politics are rejected. For example, among the Old Order Amish running for office is not allowed but voting is only discouraged, not forbidden.\n\nOthers, like the Baha'is, do not take part in partisan politics. They neither endorse particular candidates, or join political parties. They are told to vote their consciences as individuals. If asked to register they tend to do so as independent.\n\nIn other religious systems it can relate to a rejection of nationalism or even the concept of nations. In certain schools of Islamic thinking, nations are a creation of Western imperialism and ultimately all Muslims should be united religiously in the ummah. Therefore, Muslims should be in hijra as nations, in the Western sense, are basically deemed apostate. \n\nThere are some aspects of the early days of the radical Takfir wal-Hijra that hint at this. Likewise various Christian denominations reject any involvement in national issues considering it to be a kind of idolatry called statolatry. Most Christians who rejected the idea of nations have associated with the Christian Left. Satmar Hasidic Judaism rejects the state of Israel being created before the return of the Messiah, therefore members of this group refuse to vote in Israel. This group does not reject all politics, but it does reject participation in Israeli politics.\n\nLastly, some religions do not specifically reject politics per se, but believe existing political systems are so inherently corrupt they must be ignored. In some respects the view of governments as apostate relates to that. In the early stages of the Nation of Islam, for example, many adherents rejected the idea of voting because the US political system was rejected in strong terms. In recent decades, however, this view has declined in popularity among Nation of Islam adherents or been rejected outright.\n\nIn the United States, a recent survey indicated that 2% of those who did not register to vote cited religious reasons. The same survey reported that 22% of Americans are not registered to vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "36557329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36557329", "title": "Risk-limiting audit", "text": "Risk-limiting audit\n\nA risk limiting post-election audit is one of several types of election audits. It is based on hand counts of statistical samples of paper ballots, which are stored from election day to the time of the audit. It tests whether election results identified the correct winner(s). Specifically, if samples find few discrepancies, the public knows there is a limited risk that the initial winners are wrong. If samples find substantial discrepancies, the risk-limiting audit, like most but not all other election audits, requires a 100% recount by hand, to identify the correct winner(s). \n\nThere are two types of election audits: \"process audits\", which determine whether appropriate procedures were followed, and \"results audits\", which determine whether votes were counted accurately. Risk-limiting audits are one form of a results audit. \n\nThere are three types of risk-limiting audits:\n\nColorado uses the first system in most counties, and the second in a few counties which lack \"cast vote records.\"\n\nThe process starts with election officials selecting a ‘risk limit,’ such as 9% in Colorado, meaning that if there are any erroneous winners in the initial results, the audit will catch at least 91% of them and let up to 9% stay undetected and take office. Using formulae,\n\nofficials identify a sample size for each race they intend to verify. The size of the sample depends primarily on the margin of victory in the targeted race. They then generate a series of random numbers identifying specific ballots to pull from storage, such as the 23rd, 189th, 338th, 480th ballots in precinct 1, and other random numbers in other precincts. Paper ballots in the sample are then manually compared to the computer results. If the audit sample produces the same result as the computer results, the outcome is confirmed, subject to the risk limit, and the audit is complete. If the audit sample shows enough discrepancies to call the outcome into question, a larger sample is selected and counted. This process can continue until the sample confirms the original winner or a different winner is determined by hand-counting all ballots.\n\nThe three approaches are listed in order of increasing numbers of ballots which need to be hand-counted. For example in a jurisdiction with 64,000 ballots, an 8% margin of victory, and allowing 10% of any mistakes to go undetected, ballot comparison, on average, needs 80 ballots, ballot polling needs 700 ballots, and batch comparison needs 13,000 ballots (in 26 batches). \n\nSample sizes rise rapidly for narrower margins, with all methods. Even in a smaller jurisdiction, with 4,000 ballots, ballot comparison would need 300 ballots for a race with a 2% margin of victory and 3,000 ballots for a 0.1% margin of victory. Ballot polling or batch comparison would need a full hand count. Margins under 0.1% occur in one in sixty to one in 460 races. Large numbers of races on a ballot raise the chances that these small margins and large samples will occur in a jurisdiction.\n\nIf the samples do not confirm the initial results, more rounds of sampling may be done, but if it appears the initial results are wrong, risk-limiting audits require a 100% hand count to change the result.\n\nJurisdictions using method 1, compare paper ballots to the computer's cast vote records. A bug or smart hacker could generate cast vote records which match the physical ballots, but the computers can still print out totals which create a different outcome from the true sum of the honest ballot-by-ballot records. So the system needs an independent check that the computer totals match the ballot-by-ballot records.\nColorado says it has such a system, but it is not yet publicly documented.\nMethod 1 also requires the ballots to be kept in strict order so one can compare the computer interpretations of sampled ballots with those exact physical ballots.\n\nAll the methods, when done for a state-wide election, involve manual work throughout the state, wherever ballots are stored, so the public and candidates need observers at every location to be sure procedures are followed. However in Colorado and most states the law does not require any of the audit work to be done in public.\n\nCosts of actual hand counts in 2004 ranged from $0.36 per ballot to count one race in Washington State, including overhead (training, supervision, space rental), to $3.39 per ballot to count 21 contests on each ballot in Nevada, excluding overhead, or $0.18 per contest per ballot. These involved hand-counting all ballots in a precinct, so they are relevant to 100% hand-counts, when needed. Sample counts have fewer ballots, but extra costs for pulling out the sampled ballots and putting them back, and similar overheads for training and supervision.\n\nAuditing is done several days after the election, so paper ballots and computer files need to be kept securely. Physical security has its own large challenges. No US state has adequate laws on physical security of the ballots.\nSecurity recommendations for elections include: starting audits as soon as possible after the election, preventing access by anyone alone,\nwhich would typically require two locks, and no one having keys to both locks, having risks identified by people other than those who design or manage the system, using background checks and tamper-evident seals,\n\nalthough seals can typically be removed and reapplied without damage, especially in the first 48 hours, and detecting subtle tampering requires substantial training.\n\nExperienced testers can usually bypass all physical security systems. Security equipment is vulnerable before and after delivery. Insider threats and the difficulty of following all security procedures are usually under-appreciated, and most organizations do not want to learn their vulnerabilities.\n\nAs of early 2017, about half the states require some form of results audit. Typically, these states prescribe audits that check only a small flat percentage, such as 1%, of voting machines. As a result, few jurisdictions conduct audits that are rigorous or timely enough to detect and correct counting errors before election results are declared final. \n\nIn 2017, Colorado became the first state to implement rigorous risk-limiting audits, auditing one race in each of 50 of its 64 counties. Following the 2018 General Election, Colorado will conduct audits in the 62 of its 64 counties that use automated vote counting equipment (the two remaining counties hand count the ballots). Rhode Island passed legislation requiring that state's Board of Elections to implement risk-limiting audits beginning in 2018. Individual jurisdictions elsewhere may be using the method on the local election clerks' initiative. \n\nIn 2010, the American Statistical Association endorsed methods 1 and 3, ballot comparisons and batch comparisons, as long as there is public verifiability:\nIn 2008 the Brennan Center for Justice and several election integrity groups endorsed methods 2 and 3, ballot polling and batch comparisons, similarly insisting on public verifiability:\nIn 2014, the Presidential Commission on Election Administration recommended the methods in broad terms:\n\nBy selecting samples of varying sizes dictated by statistical risk, risk-limiting audits eliminate the need to count all the ballots to obtain a rapid test of the outcome (that, is, who won?), while providing some level of statistical confidence. \n\nIn 2011, the federal Election Assistance Commission initiated grants for pilot projects to test and demonstrate the method in actual elections. \n\nProfessor Phillip Stark of the University of California at Berkeley has posted tools for the conduct of risk-limiting audits on the university's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "1934303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1934303", "title": "Secretary of State (United Kingdom)", "text": "Secretary of State (United Kingdom)\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a secretary of state (SofS) is a Cabinet minister in charge of a government department (though not all departments are headed by a secretary of state, e.g. HM Treasury is headed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer). \n\nThere are a number of secretaries of state, each formally titled \"Her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for ...\". Legislation generally only refers to \"the Secretary of State\" without specifying which one; by virtue of the Interpretation Act 1978 this phrase means \"one of Her Majesty’s Principal Secretaries of State\". These positions can be created without primary legislation, nowadays at the behest of the Prime Minister.\n\nIn the Middle Ages the kings of England were attended by a cleric called the \"king's clerk\" and later \"secretary\", who dealt with their correspondence. Until the reign of Henry VIII, there was usually only one secretary, but under him a second appeared. In the time of Elizabeth I (1558–1603) these men gained the title \"Secretary of State\". With Cabinet government after 1688, the Secretaries of State took on higher duties. Their posts came to be known as the Secretary of State for the Northern Department and the Secretary of State for the Southern Department. Both dealt with home affairs, but they divided foreign affairs, so that one dealt with the Protestant states of northern Europe and the other with the Roman Catholic states of southern Europe. The Secretary of State for the Southern Department ranked above the one for the Northern Department.\n\nIn 1708, after Union with Scotland, a Secretary of State for Scotland was appointed, but the third secretaryship disappeared from 1742 until 1768, when a newly re-instituted third secretary began to take charge of the increasing administrative work of the British Empire. In 1782 came the new posts of Home Secretary, dealing with home affairs, and Foreign Secretary, dealing with foreign relations. The third secretary again disappeared, and the charge of the colonies was transferred to the Home Secretary. However, owing to the War of the First Coalition with France in 1794, a third secretary re-appeared to superintend the activities of the War Department. Seven years later, the colonial business became attached to his Department. In 1854, a fourth secretary of state gained the exclusive charge of the War Department, and in 1858 a fifth secretary (for India) began duties.\n\nThese five secretaries of state remained constant thereafter until after the first world war. In the post-war decade, three new secretaries of state were instituted – one for the Royal Air Force was split out of the War Office; one for relations with Britain's self-governing Dominions was carved out of the Colonial Office, and the minister responsible for Scottish affairs was raised to the level of a secretary of state.\n\nThis situation remained constant until after the Second World War. At the independence of India in 1947, the India Office and the Dominions Office were merged under a single Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations. A year before, the Secretaries for War and Air had lost their status as cabinet-level ministers, due to a reorganisation of British military command, being subordinated to a new Minister of Defence, and were finally abolished in 1964 and replaced with a new Secretary of State for Defence. A few years later, with the increasing contraction of the British Empire, the Colonial and Commonwealth Relations offices were merged, and in 1968 their responsibilities were subsumed within those of the Foreign Secretary.\n\nBy this time, however, the entire concept of a secretary of state had been largely transformed, as Prime Minister Harold Wilson began in 1964 the process of transforming nearly all of the various ministers and board presidents which made up the British cabinet into secretaries of state. By the end of the twentieth century, virtually all departmental cabinet ministers were secretaries of state, with the notable exception of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In contrast to the general stability of the secretaryships before the 1960s, the exact number and duties of the various secretaries of state has been very fluid, with only the Foreign and Home Secretaries, the two original secretaries of state, maintaining a consistent portfolio.\n\n\nThe honorific title First Secretary of State is awarded occasionally. It has been in existence since 1962 and is currently vacant.\n\n"}
{"id": "36281800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36281800", "title": "Sex differences in leadership", "text": "Sex differences in leadership\n\nResearch has examined whether or not there are sex differences in leadership, and these differences can be seen from a relationship based or task based perspective. \"Leadership\" is the process through which an individual guides and motivates a group towards the achievement of common goals. In studies that found a gender difference, women adopted participative styles of leadership and were more transformational leaders than men. Other studies that found no significant gender differences in leadership exist.\n\nUntil recently, leadership positions have predominantly been held by men and men were therefore stereotyped to be more effective leaders. Women were rarely seen in senior leadership positions leading to a lack of data on how they behave in such positions. However, current research has found a change in trend and women have become more prevalent in the workforce over the past two decades, especially in management and leadership positions. The gender gap is decreasing and these stereotypes are changing as more women enter leadership roles. The data from the primary literature on this topic is inconclusive as the two main lines of research contradict one another, the first being that there are small, but nevertheless significant sex differences in leadership and the second being that gender does not have an effect on leadership.\n\nAlice Eagly, a frontrunner in the research on gender differences in leadership, found through multiple studies that differences between men and women are small and that the overlap is considerable. Nevertheless, these small differences have statistical significance in the way men and women are perceived in leadership roles and their effectiveness in such positions, as well as their leadership styles. In early studies, from the late 1980s and early 1990s, it was found that women adopted participative styles of leadership and were more transformational leaders than men who adopted more directive and transactional styles of leadership. Women in management positions tended to place more emphasis on communication, cooperation, affiliation, and nurturing than men as well as having more communal qualities. Communal leadership behaviors tend to be more open, fair, pleasant and persons in these roles show responsibility. According to these studies, men were seen to be more “agentic” and be more goal and task oriented. Agentic leaders tend to be more active, task oriented, independent and focused decision makers. One of the main questions that the research has raised is if being relationship oriented or task oriented correspond to sex differences in leadership, where, women are likely to be more relationship oriented and men are likely to be more task oriented.\n\nRecent studies conducted by Trinidad and Normure in 2005, Yukl in 2002, and a study conducted by Hagberg Consulting Group in 2000 found a similar trend the leadership behaviors of men and women . Specifically according to Yukl, women have a “feminine advantage” because they are “more adept at being inclusive, interpersonally sensitive, and nurturing.\" The study conducted by Hagberg Consulting Group also found women managers to be ranked higher in 42 out of 52 traits and skills measured, including teamwork, stability, motivation, recognizing trends, and acting on new ideas. Women tend connect more with their group members by exhibiting behaviors such as smiling more, maintaining eye, and are more diplomatic with their comments (Forsyth, 2010). The differences between men and women may suggest evolutionary stressors that have contributed to the development of these relationship and task oriented tendencies between men and women. Another explanation, proposed by Eagly and Carli (2007), attributes many of these findings not to average gender differences per se, but to a \"selection effect\" caused by gender bias and discrimination against women, whereby easier standards for men in attaining leadership positions as well as the fact that men make up the majority of executives results in a higher average of exceptionally skilled women than men in some leader roles. Women tend to feel more excluded from career related and informal interactions with the senior management compared to men. In fact, the term \"glass ceiling\" can be used to describe the hindrance women face in career advancement to top management positions. The tendency of men to dominate women in informal discussion groups has been observed in a number of scenarios including when both sexes were deemed to be androgynous, when group members were committed to equality of sexes, when women were more dispositionally dominant than men, and when both sexes were extroverted. Furthermore, it has been observed that the dispositionally dominant person is more likely to emerge as a leader in same-sex dyads, but in mixed-dyads, the dominant male is more likely to emerge as leader compared to a dominant female.\n\nA similar study conducted by the Management Research Group of 17,491 questionnaires found that out of common leadership competency areas surveyed, women were rated higher by their superiors in areas like credibility with management, future potential, insight, sensitivity, and working with diverse people. Men were ranked higher in business aptitude, financial understanding, and strategic planning, which the researchers note are seen to be critical to corporate advancement. No gender differences were found in competencies such as team performance, effective thinking, and willingness to listen and no differences were found in overall effectiveness.\n\nHowever, many of these studies on gender differences in leadership style rely on leader-only self-report data, which many leadership scholars describe as unreliable at best. These sex differences are only trends and may not be seen across all groups and situations. It would be very difficult to determine how men and women would behave once they become leaders. Additionally, though relationship orientation in women and agentic orientation in men has been observed in laboratory settings, they have not been seen in studies conducted in organizational settings \n\nWhen studying perception and effectiveness of men and women in leadership, in multiple studies, it was found that men and women are perceived better by subordinates and are seen as more effective leaders when in positions in accordance to traditional gender roles. In a study conducted in 1990, it was found that women “lose authority... if they employ feminine styles of leadership in male-dominated roles.\" A meta-analysis conducted later yielded similar results in which men and women are both perceived as more effective leaders in stereotypical roles and both are found ineffective in non-traditional roles. Female leaders are perceived as less dominant than male leaders by their subordinates. Furthermore, a single male in a group is more likely to assume leadership than a single female in a group, who is likely to have less influence over the group members. Members of the group are more likely to agree with a male leader when power is exerted than a female leader. However, in a study conducted by Shelby et al. (2010), female leadership advantage was investigated by specifying contextual factors that moderate the likelihood that such an advantage would emerge. These authors considered if female gender role and the leader role were incongruent and led to a disadvantage or if instead, an advantage. They conducted two studies and found that only when success was seen as internal that top women leaders were considered more agentic and more communal than top men leaders. They also found that the effect on agentic attributes were mediated by perceptions of double standards, while communal traits were mediated by expectations of feminized management skills. This particular study showed the presence of qualified female leader advantage.\n\nEven though women exhibit many effective leadership qualities in some studies, men still assume far more leadership positions and are more likely to be seen as leaders \n\nIn contradiction to Eagly’s findings of gender differences in leadership, multiple studies have also claimed that there are no significant differences and that both men and women can and will have differing and similar styles of leadership.\n\nAs recent as 2011, Andersen and Hansson conducted a study to determine if there were significant differences in leadership behaviors as claimed by previous studies and authors. Andersen and Hansen studied public managers on leadership styles, decision-making styles, and motivation profiles and found that the only differences were in decision-making styles, but none were great enough to be considered significant.\n\nAdditionally, in a 2010 study, men and women leaders in a large German sample were found to be the same with respect to transformational leadership behavior.\n\nCliff (2005) studied male and female business owners, who are free to manage as they see fit, as opposed to middle managers who are more constrained, and found that no significant differences exist in men and women's leadership behavior. According to the researchers, the findings \"challenge the gender-stereotypic argument that a leader's sex plays an important role when it comes to organizational design and management.\"\n\nAnother similar study Dobbins and Platz (1986) found that even men and women show equal amounts of relationship orientation and task orientation and have equally satisfied subordinates. Even though male leaders are rated as more effective than female leaders, these findings are based on laboratory research and may not hold in organizational settings.\n\nThese studies correlate with other research cited by Vecchio (2002), Dobbins and Platt (1986), Gibson (1995), and van Engen et al. (2001), who all argue that no significant gender differences in leadership exist.\n\nWomen and men have been surveyed by Gallup each year concerning workplace topics, and when questioned about preferences of a female boss or a male boss, women chose a preference for a male boss 39% of the time, compared to 26% of men displaying preference for a male boss. Only 27% of females would prefer a boss of the same gender. This preference, among both sexes, for male leadership in the workplace has continued unabated for sixty years, according to the survey results.\n\n"}
{"id": "3860299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3860299", "title": "Shifta", "text": "Shifta\n\nShifta (Ge'ez: ሽፍታ, or \"shufta\") is term used in Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania and Somalia for \"rebel\", \"outlaw\", or \"bandit\". The word is derived from \"shúfto\". Historically, shifta served as local militia in the lawless rural mountainous regions on the Horn of Africa. The word shifta can be translated as 'bandit' or 'outlaw', but can include anyone who rebels against an authority or an institution that is seen as illegitimate. \n\nThe term shifta has positive and negative connotations, that of a common bandit and that of a revolutionary; both concepts being distinct but not necessarily mutually exclusive. They are often considered as highly respected, politically minded outlaws struggling for social order or a political cause. When applied in this context, \"shiftinnet\" (being a shifta) in its diverse forms has a social function as a form of conflict resolution.\n\nIn Eritrea during the British administration, military units were used to police the lawless areas and stop common shifta activity. \n\nIn Ethiopia, individuals who started as shifta have risen to the level of warlord or Emperor thus legitimizing the concept of shifta itself. Two nineteenth-century shiftas, Kassa Hailu of Gondar and Kassai Mircha of Tigray, became respectively, Emperor Tewodros and Emperor Yohannes in the later 19th century. Thus the shiftas formed the military elite and became the core of the resistance, using their military skills against the Italians. \n\nA shifta, however, whose acts surpassed social norms would be called \"t'era-shifta\" and would be regarded as a thief or bandit. The Italians labelled all shiftas as t'era-shiftas, of the criminal type. Nevertheless, to be described as a shifta, especially during the Italian occupation, was an honour for an Ethiopian and this was how resistance started and spread. \n\nBoth Isaias Afewerki of Eritrea and Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia were called shifta when they served respectively as rebel leaders of the EPLF and TPLF.\n\n"}
{"id": "27000574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27000574", "title": "Subversive activities registration", "text": "Subversive activities registration\n\nSubversive activities registration is sometimes required by governments.\n\n, requires the registration of any private group engaged in \"civilian military activity\" or in \"political activity\", the latter being defined as \"any activity the purpose or aim of which, or one of the purposes or aims of which, is the control by force or overthrow of the Government of the United States or a political subdivision thereof, or any State or political subdivision thereof.\"\n\nThe statute requires that such groups provide detailed information on their leaders, meeting places, assets, publications, etc. All of these statements become public records open to public examination and inspection.\n\nSouth Carolina passed a Subversive Activities Registration Act which required people to pay a five dollar fee to register as \"subversive agents\". No one registered until February 2010, when the legislation was publicized on the internet and by radio. Fourteen people registered before the act was repealed in June 2010.\n\nRegistered subversives include Cognition Capital Management (CCM), a registered investment advisor founded by Mitch Hardy and Bill Matson, the co-authors of \"Data Driven Investing\" (a book called \"groundbreaking\" by Joe Moglia, the Chairman of TD Ameritrade, for its criticism of the financial services industry). By its compliance with the Subversive Activities Registration Act, CCM sought to protest the ongoing unfair business practices of Wall Street firms with significant federal government ownership.\n\n"}
{"id": "32791864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32791864", "title": "The Immobile Empire", "text": "The Immobile Empire\n\nThe Immobile Empire is the English translation of \"L'empire Immobile, Ou, Le Choc Des Mondes: Récit Historique\", a book of history published in French 1989 by the French politician and writer Alain Peyrefitte and translated into English in 1992. The book gives a sweeping narrative of the British Embassy of Sir George Macartney to the Qianlong Emperor of China in 1793. Published originally in French, the book was then translated into English, Chinese, Dutch, and Portuguese. Peyrefitte contends that the frustration of the mission and the stand off in relations between Great Britain and China over diplomatic and audience ritual was caused by the ignorant intransigence and cultural conceit of the imperial court. The empire was \"immobile\" because these attitudes stifled China's natural creativity and kept it bureaucratic, static, and feeble over the following century and a half.\n\nIn doing the research for the book, Peyrefitte used his official connections to gain then unprecedented access to archives in Beijing's Palace Museum and organized a team of researchers to explore them. They found documents concerning the mission, some of which had not been opened since the 1790s, and translated a collection of them.\n\nThe book was widely reviewed, and eventually came out in 36 editions between 1989 and 2007 in 7 languages The\nrange of opinions in the major reviews reflect differences over how to interpret China's relations with the west over the last two centuries, particularly attitudes toward globalization and empire. Jane Kate Leonard writing in the American Historical Review was critical, concluding that the book was \"a pretentious and undigested work of limited antiquarian interest.\" The review also contends that Peyrefitte's work does not add to earlier scholarship by J.L. Cranmer-Byng and Earl H. Pritchard. The University of Chicago historian James L. Hevia published a revisionist study which specifically argued that Peyrefitte and others of the \"free trade\" interpretation overemphasized economic motives and suggested instead that the British and the Manchu empires both were expanding and both were as much concerned with \"ritual\" (in the sense of cultural forms) as with profits as such. Princeton University scholar Benjamin A. Elman commented that Peyrefitte painted a \"dark picture\" of China and recommended that readers consult other works as a corrective.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53307298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53307298", "title": "The Source (oratorio)", "text": "The Source (oratorio)\n\nThe Source is an oratorio by American composer Ted Hearne, with libretto by Mark Doten. The work concerns the WikiLeaks disclosures of United States Army soldier Chelsea Manning.\n\nThe libretto for \"The Source\" is drawn from document disclosures as well as instant messages and interviews, including messages sent from Manning to former hacker Adrian Lamo. The piece features four singers embedded in the audience, a seven-piece musical ensemble, and four video screens. The voices of the singers are at times electronically modified with Auto-Tune. The video screens show the faces of people looking at something, which is revealed at the end to be footage from the July 12, 2007 Baghdad airstrike, in which civilians were killed.\n\n\"The Source\" premiered at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in October 2014. \"The New York Times\" listed the work as one of the best classical vocal performances of 2014. According to the composer, Chelsea Manning has heard the piece (played for her over the phone by her supporters), and liked it.\n\nThe Los Angeles Opera staged the west coast premiere of \"The Source\" in October 2016. The west coast tour continued with a run at the San Francisco Opera beginning in February 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "41898354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41898354", "title": "Union of the Baltic Cities", "text": "Union of the Baltic Cities\n\nUnion of the Baltic Cities (\"UBC\") is a voluntary, proactive network mobilizing the shared potential of over 100 member cities for democratic, economic, social, cultural and environmentally sustainable development of the Baltic Sea region.\n\nThe Union of the Baltic Cities was founded in Gdańsk, Poland in September 1991, by 32 cities, with the aim of developing cooperation and exchange between its member cities. Inspired in part by the historic example of the Hanseatic League and supported by the European Union's Interreg programs to stimulate regional cooperation within the EU, it was one of the first formal institutions established to bolster the Baltic as a cohesive region within Europe. The city of Kalmar in Sweden took the initiative in founding the organization, but Gdańsk was chosen as the organization's headquarters to emphasize the desire to break down historic barriers between Western and Eastern Europe. Anders Engström, who was in office from 1999 to 2001, was the first President of the UBC. Since 2001 the office has been held by Per Bødker Andersen.\n\nThe Union states its aims are to:\n\n\nIn 2014 the Union comprised over 100 cities from ten countries: Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia and Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "31644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31644", "title": "United States Constitution", "text": "United States Constitution\n\nThe United States Constitution is the supreme law of the United States. The Constitution, comprising seven articles, delineates the national frame of government. Its first three articles embody the doctrine of the separation of powers, whereby the federal government is divided into three branches: the legislative, consisting of the bicameral Congress; the executive, consisting of the President; and the judicial, consisting of the Supreme Court and other federal courts. Articles Four, Five and Six embody concepts of federalism, describing the rights and responsibilities of state governments, the states in relationship to the federal government, and the shared process of constitutional amendment. Article Seven establishes the procedure subsequently used by the thirteen States to ratify it. It is regarded as the oldest written and codified national constitution in force.\n\nSince the Constitution came into force in 1789, it has been amended 27 times, including an amendment to repeal a previous one, in order to meet the changing needs of a nation that has profoundly changed since the eighteenth century. In general, the first ten amendments, known collectively as the Bill of Rights, offer specific protections of individual liberty and justice and place restrictions on the powers of government. The majority of the seventeen later amendments expand individual civil rights protections. Others address issues related to federal authority or modify government processes and procedures. Amendments to the United States Constitution, unlike ones made to many constitutions worldwide, are appended to the document. All four pages of the original U.S. Constitution are written on parchment.\n\nAccording to the United States Senate: \"The Constitution's first three words—\"We the People\"—affirm that the government of the United States exists to serve its citizens. For over two centuries the Constitution has remained in force because its framers wisely separated and balanced governmental powers to safeguard the interests of majority rule and minority rights, of liberty and equality, and of the federal and state governments.\"\n\nThe first permanent constitution of its kind, adopted by the people's representatives for an expansive nation, it is interpreted, supplemented, and implemented by a large body of constitutional law, and has influenced the constitutions of other nations.\n\nFrom September 5, 1774, to March 1, 1781, the Continental Congress functioned as the provisional government of the United States. Delegates to the First (1774) and then the Second (1775–1781) Continental Congress were chosen largely through the action of committees of correspondence in various colonies rather than through the colonial or later state legislatures. In no formal sense was it a gathering representative of existing colonial governments; it represented the dissatisfied elements of the people, such persons as were sufficiently interested to act, despite the strenuous opposition of the loyalists and the obstruction or disfavor of colonial governors. The process of selecting the delegates for the First and Second Continental Congresses underscores the revolutionary role of the people of the colonies in establishing a central governing body. Endowed by the people collectively, the Continental Congress alone possessed those attributes of external sovereignty which entitled it to be called a state in the international sense, while the separate states, exercising a limited or internal sovereignty, may rightly be considered a creation of the Continental Congress, which preceded them and brought them into being.\n\nThe Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union was the first constitution of the United States. It was drafted by the Second Continental Congress from mid-1776 through late 1777, and ratification by all 13 states was completed by early 1781. Under the Articles of Confederation, the central government's power was quite limited. The Confederation Congress could make decisions, but lacked enforcement powers. Implementation of most decisions, including modifications to the Articles, required unanimous approval of all thirteen state legislatures.\n\nAlthough, in a way, the Congressional powers in Article 9 made the \"league of states as cohesive and strong as any similar sort of republican confederation in history\", the chief problem was, in the words of George Washington, \"no money\". The Continental Congress could print money but the currency was worthless. (A popular phrase of the times called a useless object or person \"... not worth a Continental\", referring to the Continental dollar.) Congress could borrow money, but couldn't pay it back. No state paid all their U.S. taxes; some paid nothing. Some few paid an amount equal to interest on the national debt owed to their citizens, but no more. No interest was paid on debt owed foreign governments. By 1786, the United States would default on outstanding debts as their dates came due.\n\nInternationally, the Articles of Confederation did little to enhance the United States' ability to defend its sovereignty. Most of the troops in the 625-man United States Army were deployed facing – but not threatening – British forts on American soil. They had not been paid; some were deserting and others threatening mutiny. Spain closed New Orleans to American commerce; U.S. officials protested, but to no effect. Barbary pirates began seizing American ships of commerce; the Treasury had no funds to pay their ransom. If any military crisis required action, the Congress had no credit or taxing power to finance a response.\n\nDomestically, the Articles of Confederation was failing to bring unity to the diverse sentiments and interests of the various states. Although the Treaty of Paris (1783) was signed between Great Britain and the U.S., and named each of the American states, various individual states proceeded blithely to violate it. New York and South Carolina repeatedly prosecuted Loyalists for wartime activity and redistributed their lands. Individual state legislatures independently laid embargoes, negotiated directly with foreign authorities, raised armies, and made war, all violating the letter and the spirit of the Articles.\n\nIn September 1786, during an inter–state convention to discuss and develop a consensus about reversing the protectionist trade barriers that each state had erected, James Madison angrily questioned whether the Articles of Confederation was a binding compact or even a viable government. Connecticut paid nothing and \"positively refused\" to pay U.S. assessments for two years. A rumor had it that a \"seditious party\" of New York legislators had opened a conversation with the Viceroy of Canada. To the south, the British were said to be openly funding Creek Indian raids on white settlers in Georgia and adjacent territory. Savannah (then-capital of Georgia) had been fortified, and the state of Georgia was under martial law. Additionally, during Shays' Rebellion (August 1786 – June 1787) in Massachusetts, Congress could provide no money to support an endangered constituent state. General Benjamin Lincoln was obliged to raise funds from Boston merchants to pay for a volunteer army.\n\nCongress was paralyzed. It could do nothing significant without nine states, and some legislation required all thirteen. When a state produced only one member in attendance, its vote was not counted. If a state's delegation were evenly divided, its vote could not be counted towards the nine-count requirement. The Articles Congress had \"virtually ceased trying to govern\". The vision of a \"respectable nation\" among nations seemed to be fading in the eyes of revolutionaries such as George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, and Rufus King. Their dream of a republic, a nation without hereditary rulers, with power derived from the people in frequent elections, was in doubt.\n\nOn February 21, 1787, the Confederation Congress called a convention of state delegates at Philadelphia to propose a plan of government. Unlike earlier attempts, the convention was not meant for new laws or piecemeal alterations, but for the \"sole and express purpose of revising the Articles of Confederation\". The convention was not limited to commerce; rather, it was intended to \"render the federal constitution adequate to the exigencies of government and the preservation of the Union.\" The proposal might take effect when approved by Congress and the states.\n\nOn the appointed day, May 14, 1787, only the Virginia and Pennsylvania delegations were present, and so the convention's opening meeting was postponed for lack of a quorum. A quorum of seven states met and deliberations began on May 25. Eventually twelve states were represented; 74 delegates were named, 55 attended and 39 signed. The delegates were generally convinced that an effective central government with a wide range of enforceable powers must replace the weaker Congress established by the Articles of Confederation. \n\nTwo plans for structuring the federal government arose at the convention's outset:\n\nOn May 31, the Convention devolved into a \"Committee of the Whole\" to consider the Virginia Plan. On June 13, the Virginia resolutions in amended form were reported out of committee. The New Jersey plan was put forward in response to the Virginia Plan.\n\nA \"Committee of Eleven\" (one delegate from each state represented) met from July 2 to 16 to work out a compromise on the issue of representation in the federal legislature. All agreed to a republican form of government grounded in representing the people in the states. For the legislature, two issues were to be decided: how the votes were to be allocated among the states in the Congress, and how the representatives should be elected. In its report, now known as the Connecticut Compromise (or \"Great Compromise\"), the committee proposed proportional representation for seats in the House of Representatives based on population (with the people voting for representatives), and equal representation for each State in the Senate (with each state's legislators generally choosing their respective senators), and that all money bills would originate in the House.\n\nThe Great Compromise ended the stalemate between \"patriots\" and \"nationalists\", leading to numerous other compromises in a spirit of accommodation. There were sectional interests to be balanced by the Three-Fifths Compromise; reconciliation on Presidential term, powers, and method of selection; and jurisdiction of the federal judiciary.\n\nOn July 24, a \"Committee of Detail\" – John Rutledge (South Carolina), Edmund Randolph (Virginia), Nathaniel Gorham (Massachusetts), Oliver Ellsworth (Connecticut), and James Wilson (Pennsylvania) – was elected to draft a detailed constitution reflective of the Resolutions passed by the convention up to that point. The Convention recessed from July 26 to August 6 to await the report of this \"Committee of Detail\". Overall, the report of the committee conformed to the resolutions adopted by the Convention, adding some elements. A twenty-three article (plus preamble) constitution was presented.\n\nFrom August 6 to September 10, the report of the committee of detail was discussed, section by section and clause by clause. Details were attended to, and further compromises were effected. Toward the close of these discussions, on September 8, a \"Committee of Style and Arrangement\" – Alexander Hamilton (New York), William Samuel Johnson (Connecticut), Rufus King (Massachusetts), James Madison (Virginia), and Gouverneur Morris (Pennsylvania) – was appointed to distill a final draft constitution from the twenty-three approved articles. The final draft, presented to the convention on September 12, contained seven articles, a preamble and a closing endorsement, of which Morris was the primary author. The committee also presented a proposed letter to accompany the constitution when delivered to Congress.\n\nThe final document, engrossed by Jacob Shallus, was taken up on Monday, September 17, at the Convention's final session. Several of the delegates were disappointed in the result, a makeshift series of unfortunate compromises. Some delegates left before the ceremony, and three others refused to sign. Of the thirty-nine signers, Benjamin Franklin summed up, addressing the Convention: \"There are several parts of this Constitution which I do not at present approve, but I am not sure I shall never approve them.\" He would accept the Constitution, \"because I expect no better and because I am not sure that it is not the best\".\n\nThe advocates of the Constitution were anxious to obtain unanimous support of all twelve states represented in the Convention. Their accepted formula for the closing endorsement was \"Done in Convention, by the unanimous consent of the States present.\" At the end of the convention, the proposal was agreed to by eleven state delegations and the lone remaining delegate from New York, Alexander Hamilton.\n\nTransmitted to the Congress of the Confederation, then sitting in New York City, it was within the power of Congress to expedite or block ratification of the proposed Constitution. The new frame of government that the Philadelphia Convention presented was technically only a revision of the Articles of Confederation. After several days of debate, Congress voted to transmit the document to the thirteen states for ratification according to the process outlined in its Article VII. Each state legislature was to call elections for a \"Federal Convention\" to ratify the new Constitution, rather than consider ratification itself; a departure from the constitutional practice of the time, designed to expand the franchise in order to more clearly embrace \"the people\". The frame of government itself was to go into force among the States so acting upon the approval of nine (i.e. two-thirds of the 13) states; also a departure from constitutional practice, as the Articles of Confederation could only be amended by unanimous vote of all the states.\n\nThree members of the Convention – Madison, Gorham, and King – were also Members of Congress. They proceeded at once to New York, where Congress was in session, to placate the expected opposition. Aware of their vanishing authority, Congress, on September 28, after some debate, resolved unanimously to submit the Constitution to the States for action, \"in conformity to the resolves of the Convention\", but with no recommendation either for or against its adoption.\n\nTwo parties soon developed, one in opposition, the Anti-Federalists, and one in support, the Federalists, of the Constitution; and the Constitution was debated, criticized, and expounded upon clause by clause. Hamilton, Madison, and Jay, under the name of Publius, wrote a series of commentaries, now known as \"The Federalist Papers\", in support of ratification in the state of New York, at that time a hotbed of anti-Federalism. These commentaries on the Constitution, written during the struggle for ratification, have been frequently cited by the Supreme Court as an authoritative contemporary interpretation of the meaning of its provisions. The dispute over additional powers for the central government was close, and in some states ratification was effected only after a bitter struggle in the state convention itself.\n\nOn June 21, 1788, the constitution had been ratified by the minimum of nine states required under Article VII. Towards the end of July, and with eleven states then having ratified, the process of organizing the new government began. The Continental Congress, which still functioned at irregular intervals, passed a resolution on September 13, 1788, to put the new Constitution into operation with the eleven states that had then ratified it. The federal government began operations under the new form of government on March 4, 1789. However, the initial meeting of each chamber of Congress had to be adjourned due to lack of a quorum. George Washington was inaugurated as the nation's first president weeks later, on April 30. The final two states, North Carolina and Rhode Island, both subsequently ratified the ConstitutionNovember 21, 1789, and May 29, 1790, respectively.\n\nSeveral ideas in the Constitution were new. These were associated with the combination of consolidated government along with federal relationships with constituent states.\n\nThe Due Process Clause of the Constitution was partly based on common law and on Magna Carta (1215), which had become a foundation of English liberty against arbitrary power wielded by a ruler.\n\nAmong the most prominent political theorists of the late eighteenth century were William Blackstone, John Locke, and Montesquieu.\n\nBoth the influence of Edward Coke and William Blackstone were evident at the Convention. In his \"Institutes of the Lawes of England\", Edward Coke interpreted Magna Carta protections and rights to apply not just to nobles, but to all British subjects. In writing the Virginia Charter of 1606, he enabled the King in Parliament to give those to be born in the colonies all rights and liberties as though they were born in England. William Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\" were the most influential books on law in the new republic.\n\nBritish political philosopher John Locke following the Glorious Revolution (1688) was a major influence expanding on the contract theory of government advanced by Thomas Hobbes. Locke advanced the principle of consent of the governed in his \"Two Treatises of Government\". Government's duty under a social contract among the sovereign people was to serve the people by protecting their rights. These basic rights were life, liberty and property.\n\nMontesquieu's influence on the framers is evident in Madison's Federalist No. 47 and Hamilton's Federalist No. 78. Jefferson, Adams, and Mason were known to read Montesquieu. Supreme Court Justices, the ultimate interpreters of the Constitution, have cited to Montesquieu throughout the Court's history. (See, \"e.g.\", ) Montesquieu emphasized the need for balanced forces pushing against each other to prevent tyranny (reflecting the influence of Polybius's 2nd century BC treatise on the checks and balances of the Roman Republic). In his \"The Spirit of the Laws\", Montesquieu argues that the separation of state powers should be by its service to the people's liberty: legislative, executive and judicial.\n\nA substantial body of thought had been developed from the literature of republicanism in the United States, including work by John Adams and applied to the creation of state constitutions.\n\nThe constitution was a federal one, and was influenced by the study of other federations, both ancient and extant. \nThe United States Bill of Rights consists of 10 amendments added to the Constitution in 1791, as supporters of the Constitution had promised critics during the debates of 1788. The English Bill of Rights (1689) was an inspiration for the American Bill of Rights. Both require jury trials, contain a right to keep and bear arms, prohibit excessive bail and forbid \"cruel and unusual punishments\". Many liberties protected by state constitutions and the Virginia Declaration of Rights were incorporated into the Bill of Rights.\n\nNeither the Convention which drafted the Constitution, nor the Congress which sent it to the thirteen states for ratification in the autumn of 1787, gave it a lead caption. To fill this void, the document was most often titled \"A frame of Government\" when it was printed for the convenience of ratifying conventions and the information of the public. This \"Frame of Government\" consisted of a preamble, seven articles and a signed closing endorsement.\n\nThe preamble to the Constitution serves as an introductory statement of the document's fundamental purposes and guiding principles. It neither assigns powers to the federal government, nor does it place specific limitations on government action. Rather, it sets out the origin, scope and purpose of the Constitution. Its origin and authority is in \"We, the people of the United States\". This echoes the Declaration of Independence. \"One people\" dissolved their connection with another, and assumed among the powers of the earth, a sovereign nation-state. The scope of the Constitution is twofold. First, \"to form a more perfect Union\" than had previously existed in the \"perpetual Union\" of the Articles of Confederation. Second, to \"secure the blessings of liberty\", which were to be enjoyed by not only the first generation, but for all who came after, \"our posterity\".\n\nArticle One describes the Congress, the legislative branch of the federal government. Section 1, reads, \"All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives.\" The article establishes the manner of election and the qualifications of members of each body. Representatives must be at least 25 years old, be a citizen of the United States for seven years, and live in the state they represent. Senators must be at least 30 years old, be a citizen for nine years, and live in the state they represent.\n\nThe Supreme Court has sometimes broadly interpreted the Commerce Clause and the Necessary and Proper Clause in Article One to allow Congress to enact legislation that is neither expressly allowed by the enumerated powers nor expressly denied in the limitations on Congress. In \"McCulloch v. Maryland\" (1819), the Supreme Court read the Necessary and Proper Clause to permit the federal government to take action that would \"enable [it] to perform the high duties assigned to it [by the Constitution] in the manner most beneficial to the people\", even if that action is not itself within the enumerated powers. Chief Justice Marshall clarified: \"Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution, and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are Constitutional.\"\n\nArticle Two describes the office, qualifications, and duties of the President of the United States and the Vice President. The President is head of the executive branch of the federal government, as well as the nation's head of state and head of government.\n\nArticle two is modified by the 12th Amendment which tacitly acknowledges political parties, and the 25th Amendment relating to office succession. The president is to receive only one compensation from the federal government. The inaugural oath is specified to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution.\n\nThe president is the Commander in Chief of the United States Armed Forces and state militias when they are mobilized. He or she makes treaties with the advice and consent of a two-thirds quorum of the Senate. To administer the federal government, the president commissions all the offices of the federal government as Congress directs; he or she may require the opinions of its principal officers and make \"recess appointments\" for vacancies that may happen during the recess of the Senate. The president is to see that the laws are faithfully executed, though he or she may grant reprieves and pardons except regarding Congressional impeachment of himself or other federal officers. The president reports to Congress on the State of the Union, and by the Recommendation Clause, recommends \"necessary and expedient\" national measures. The president may convene and adjourn Congress under special circumstances.\n\nSection 4 provides for removal of the president and other federal officers. The president is removed on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.\n\nArticle Three describes the court system (the judicial branch), including the Supreme Court. There shall be one court called the Supreme Court. The article describes the kinds of cases the court takes as original jurisdiction. Congress can create lower courts and an appeals process. Congress enacts law defining crimes and providing for punishment. Article Three also protects the right to trial by jury in all criminal cases, and defines the crime of treason.\n\nSection 1 vests the judicial power of the United States in federal courts, and with it, the authority to interpret and apply the law to a particular case. Also included is the power to punish, sentence, and direct future action to resolve conflicts. The Constitution outlines the U.S. judicial system. In the Judiciary Act of 1789, Congress began to fill in details. Currently, Title 28 of the U.S. Code describes judicial powers and administration.\n\nAs of the First Congress, the Supreme Court justices rode circuit to sit as panels to hear appeals from the district courts. In 1891, Congress enacted a new system. District courts would have original jurisdiction. Intermediate appellate courts (circuit courts) with exclusive jurisdiction heard regional appeals before consideration by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court holds discretionary jurisdiction, meaning that it does not have to hear every case that is brought to it.\n\nTo enforce judicial decisions, the Constitution grants federal courts both criminal contempt and civil contempt powers. The court's summary punishment for contempt immediately overrides all other punishments applicable to the subject party. Other implied powers include injunctive relief and the habeas corpus remedy. The Court may imprison for contumacy, bad-faith litigation, and failure to obey a writ of mandamus. Judicial power includes that granted by Acts of Congress for rules of law and punishment. Judicial power also extends to areas not covered by statute. Generally, federal courts cannot interrupt state court proceedings.\n\nClause 1 of Section 2 authorizes the federal courts to hear actual cases and controversies only. Their judicial power does not extend to cases which are hypothetical, or which are proscribed due to standing, mootness, or ripeness issues. Generally, a case or controversy requires the presence of adverse parties who have some interest genuinely at stake in the case.\n\nClause 2 of Section 2 provides that the Supreme Court has original jurisdiction in cases involving ambassadors, ministers and consuls, for all cases respecting foreign nation-states, and also in those controversies which are subject to federal judicial power because at least one state is a party. Cases arising under the laws of the United States and its treaties come under the jurisdiction of federal courts. Cases under international maritime law and conflicting land grants of different states come under federal courts. Cases between U.S. citizens in different states, and cases between U.S. citizens and foreign states and their citizens, come under federal jurisdiction. The trials will be in the state where the crime was committed.\n\nNo part of the Constitution expressly authorizes judicial review, but the Framers did contemplate the idea. The Constitution is the supreme law of the land. Precedent has since established that the courts could exercise judicial review over the actions of Congress or the executive branch. Two conflicting federal laws are under \"pendent\" jurisdiction if one presents a strict constitutional issue. Federal court jurisdiction is rare when a state legislature enacts something as under federal jurisdiction. To establish a federal system of national law, considerable effort goes into developing a spirit of comity between federal government and states. By the doctrine of 'Res judicata', federal courts give \"full faith and credit\" to State Courts. The Supreme Court will decide Constitutional issues of state law only on a case by case basis, and only by strict Constitutional necessity, independent of state legislators motives, their policy outcomes or its national wisdom.\n\nSection 3 bars Congress from changing or modifying Federal law on treason by simple majority statute. This section also defines treason, as an overt act of making war or materially helping those at war with the United States. Accusations must be corroborated by at least two witnesses. Congress is a political body and political disagreements routinely encountered should never be considered as treason. This allows for nonviolent resistance to the government because opposition is not a life or death proposition. However, Congress does provide for other lesser subversive crimes such as conspiracy.\n\nArticle Four outlines the relations among the states and between each state and the federal government. In addition, it provides for such matters as admitting new states and border changes between the states. For instance, it requires states to give \"full faith and credit\" to the public acts, records, and court proceedings of the other states. Congress is permitted to regulate the manner in which proof of such acts may be admitted. The \"privileges and immunities\" clause prohibits state governments from discriminating against citizens of other states in favor of resident citizens. For instance, in criminal sentencing, a state may not increase a penalty on the grounds that the convicted person is a non-resident.\n\nIt also establishes extradition between the states, as well as laying down a legal basis for freedom of movement and travel amongst the states. Today, this provision is sometimes taken for granted, but in the days of the Articles of Confederation, crossing state lines was often arduous and costly. The Territorial Clause gives Congress the power to make rules for disposing of federal property and governing non-state territories of the United States. Finally, the fourth section of Article Four requires the United States to guarantee to each state a republican form of government, and to protect them from invasion and violence.\n\nArticle Five outlines the process for amending the Constitution. Eight state constitutions in effect in 1787 included an amendment mechanism. Amendment making power rested with the legislature in three of the states and in the other five it was given to specially elected conventions. The Articles of Confederation provided that amendments were to be proposed by Congress and ratified by the unanimous vote of all thirteen state legislatures. This proved to be a major flaw in the Articles, as it created an insurmountable obstacle to constitutional reform. The amendment process crafted during the Philadelphia Constitutional Convention was, according to The Federalist No. 43, designed to establish a balance between pliancy and rigidity:\nThere are two steps in the amendment process. Proposals to amend the Constitution must be properly adopted and ratified before they change the Constitution. First, there are two procedures for adopting the language of a proposed amendment, either by (a) Congress, by two-thirds majority in both the Senate and the House of Representatives, or (b) national convention (which shall take place whenever two-thirds of the state legislatures collectively call for one). Second, there are two procedures for ratifying the proposed amendment, which requires three-fourths of the states' (presently 38 of 50) approval: (a) consent of the state legislatures, or (b) consent of state ratifying conventions. The ratification method is chosen by Congress for each amendment. State ratifying conventions were used only once, for the Twenty-first Amendment.\n\nPresently, the Archivist of the United States is charged with responsibility for administering the ratification process under the provisions of 1 U.S. Code . The Archivist submits the proposed amendment to the states for their consideration by sending a letter of notification to each Governor. Each Governor then formally submits the amendment to their state's legislature. When a state ratifies a proposed amendment, it sends the Archivist an original or certified copy of the state's action. Ratification documents are examined by the Office of the Federal Register for facial legal sufficiency and an authenticating signature.\n\nArticle Five ends by shielding certain clauses in the new frame of government from being amended. Article One, Section 9, Clauses 1 prevents Congress from passing any law that would restrict the importation of slaves into the United States prior to 1808, plus the fourth clause from that same section, which reiterates the Constitutional rule that direct taxes must be apportioned according to state populations. These clauses were explicitly shielded from Constitutional amendment prior to 1808. On January 1, 1808, the first day it was permitted to do so, Congress approved legislation prohibiting the importation of slaves into the country. On February 3, 1913, with ratification of the Sixteenth Amendment, Congress gained the authority to levy an income tax without apportioning it among the states or basing it on the United States Census. The third textually entrenched provision is Article One, Section 3, Clauses 1, which provides for equal representation of the states in the Senate. The shield protecting this clause from the amendment process is less absolute – \"no state, without its consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the Senate\" – but permanent.\n\nArticle Six establishes the Constitution, and all federal laws and treaties of the United States made according to it, to be the supreme law of the land, and that \"the judges in every state shall be bound thereby, any thing in the laws or constitutions of any state notwithstanding.\" It validates national debt created under the Articles of Confederation and requires that all federal and state legislators, officers, and judges take oaths or affirmations to support the Constitution. This means that the states' constitutions and laws should not conflict with the laws of the federal constitution and that in case of a conflict, state judges are legally bound to honor the federal laws and constitution over those of any state. Article Six also states \"no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States.\"\n\nArticle Seven describes the process for establishing the proposed new frame of government. Anticipating that the influence of many state politicians would be Antifederalist, delegates to the Philadelphia Convention provided for ratification of the Constitution by popularly elected ratifying conventions in each state. The convention method also made it possible that judges, ministers and others ineligible to serve in state legislatures, could be elected to a convention. Suspecting that Rhode Island, at least, might not ratify, delegates decided that the Constitution would go into effect as soon as nine states (two-thirds rounded up) ratified. Once ratified by this minimum number of states, it was anticipated that the proposed Constitution would become \"this Constitution\" between the nine or more that signed. It would not cover the four or fewer states that might not have signed.\n\nThe Signing of the United States Constitution occurred on September 17, 1787, when 39 delegates to the Constitutional Convention endorsed the constitution created during the convention. In addition to signatures, this closing endorsement, the Constitution's eschatocol, included a brief declaration that the delegates' work has been successfully completed and that those whose signatures appear on it subscribe to the final document. Included are, a statement pronouncing the document's adoption by the states present, a formulaic dating of its adoption, and the signatures of those endorsing it. Additionally, the convention's secretary, William Jackson, signed the document to authenticate the validity of the delegate signatures. He also made a few secretarial notes.\n\nThe language of the concluding endorsement, conceived by Gouverneur Morris and presented to the convention by Benjamin Franklin, was made intentionally ambiguous in hopes of winning over the votes of dissenting delegates. Advocates for the new frame of government, realizing the impending difficulty of obtaining the consent of the states needed to make it operational, were anxious to obtain the unanimous support of the delegations from each state. It was feared that many of the delegates would refuse to give their individual assent to the Constitution. Therefore, in order that the action of the Convention would appear to be unanimous, the formula, \"Done in convention by the unanimous consent of the states present ...\" was devised.\n\nThe document is dated: \"the Seventeenth Day of September in the Year of our Lord\" 1787, and \"of the Independence of the United States of America the Twelfth.\" This two-fold epoch dating serves to place the Constitution in the context of the religious traditions of Western civilization and, at the same time, links it to the regime principles proclaimed in the Declaration of Independence. This dual reference can also be found in the Articles of Confederation and the Northwest Ordinance.\n\nThe closing endorsement serves an authentication function only. It neither assigns powers to the federal government nor does it provide specific limitations on government action. It does however, provide essential documentation of the Constitution's validity, a statement of \"This is what was agreed to.\" It records who signed the Constitution, and when and where.\n\nThe Constitution has twenty-seven amendments. Structurally, the Constitution's original text and all prior amendments remain untouched. The precedent for this practice was set in 1789, when Congress considered and proposed the first several Constitutional amendments. Among these, Amendments 1–10 are collectively known as the Bill of Rights, and Amendments 13–15 are known as the Reconstruction Amendments. Excluding the Twenty-seventh Amendment, which was pending before the states for , the longest pending amendment that was successfully ratified was the Twenty-second Amendment, which took . The Twenty-sixth Amendment was ratified in the shortest time, days. The average ratification time for the first twenty-six amendments was 1 year, 252 days, for all twenty-seven, 9 years, 48 days.\n\nA proposed amendment becomes an operative part of the Constitution as soon as it is ratified by three-fourths of the States (currently 38 of the 50 States). There is no further step. The text requires no additional action by Congress or anyone else after ratification by the required number of states. Thus, when the Office of the Federal Register verifies that it has received the required number of authenticated ratification documents, it drafts a formal proclamation for the Archivist to certify that the amendment is valid and has become part of the nation's frame of government. This certification is published in the \"Federal Register\" and \"United States Statutes at Large\" and serves as official notice to Congress and to the nation that the ratification process has been successfully completed.\n\nThe First Amendment (1791) prohibits Congress from obstructing the exercise of certain individual freedoms: freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, and right to petition. Its Free Exercise Clause guarantees a person's right to hold whatever religious beliefs he or she wants, and to freely exercise that belief, and its Establishment Clause prevents the federal government from creating an official national church or favoring one set of religious beliefs over another. The amendment guarantees an individual's right to express and to be exposed to a wide range of opinions and views. It was intended to ensure a free exchange of ideas, even unpopular ones. It also guarantees an individual's right to physically gather or associate with others in groups for economic, political or religious purposes. Additionally, it guarantees an individual's right to petition the government for a redress of grievances.\n\nThe Second Amendment (1791) protects the right of individuals to keep and bear arms. Although the Supreme Court has ruled that this right applies to individuals, not merely to collective militias, it has also held that the government may regulate or place some limits on the manufacture, ownership and sale of firearms or other weapons. Requested by several states during the Constitutional ratification debates, the amendment reflected the lingering resentment over the widespread efforts of the British to confiscate the colonists' firearms at the outbreak of the Revolutionary War. Patrick Henry had rhetorically asked, shall we be stronger, \"when we are totally disarmed, and when a British Guard shall be stationed in every house?\"\n\nThe Third Amendment (1791) prohibits the federal government from forcing individuals to provide lodging to soldiers in their homes during peacetime without their consent. Requested by several states during the Constitutional ratification debates, the amendment reflected the lingering resentment over the Quartering Acts passed by the British Parliament during the Revolutionary War, which had allowed British soldiers to take over private homes for their own use.\n\nThe Fourth Amendment (1791) protects people against unreasonable searches and seizures of either self or property by government officials. A search can mean everything from a frisking by a police officer or to a demand for a blood test to a search of an individual's home or car. A seizure occurs when the government takes control of an individual or something in his or her possession. Items that are seized often are used as evidence when the individual is charged with a crime. It also imposes certain limitations on police investigating a crime and prevents the use of illegally obtained evidence at trial.\n\nThe Fifth Amendment (1791) establishes the requirement that a trial for a major crime may commence only after an indictment has been handed down by a grand jury; protects individuals from double jeopardy, being tried and put in danger of being punished more than once for the same criminal act; prohibits punishment without due process of law, thus protecting individuals from being imprisoned without fair procedures; and provides that an accused person may not be compelled to reveal to the police, prosecutor, judge, or jury any information that might incriminate or be used against him or her in a court of law. Additionally, the Fifth Amendment also prohibits government from taking private property for public use without \"just compensation\", the basis of eminent domain in the United States.\n\nThe Sixth Amendment (1791) provides several protections and rights to an individual accused of a crime. The accused has the right to a fair and speedy trial by a local and impartial jury. Likewise, a person has the right to a public trial. This right protects defendants from secret proceedings that might encourage abuse of the justice system, and serves to keep the public informed. This amendment also guarantees a right to legal counsel if accused of a crime, guarantees that the accused may require witnesses to attend the trial and testify in the presence of the accused, and guarantees the accused a right to know the charges against them. In 1966, the Supreme Court ruled that, with the Fifth Amendment, this amendment requires what has become known as the \"Miranda\" warning.\n\nThe Seventh Amendment (1791) extends the right to a jury trial to federal civil cases, and inhibits courts from overturning a jury's findings of fact. Although the Seventh Amendment itself says that it is limited to \"suits at common law\", meaning cases that triggered the right to a jury under English law, the amendment has been found to apply in lawsuits that are similar to the old common law cases. For example, the right to a jury trial applies to cases brought under federal statutes that prohibit race or gender discrimination in housing or employment. Importantly, this amendment guarantees the right to a jury trial only in federal court, not in state court.\n\nThe Eighth Amendment (1791) protects people from having bail or fines set at an amount so high that it would be impossible for all but the richest defendants to pay and also protects people from being subjected to cruel and unusual punishment. Although this phrase originally was intended to outlaw certain gruesome methods of punishment, it has been broadened over the years to protect against punishments that are grossly disproportionate to or too harsh for the particular crime. This provision has also been used to challenge prison conditions such as extremely unsanitary cells, overcrowding, insufficient medical care and deliberate failure by officials to protect inmates from one another.\n\nThe Ninth Amendment (1791) declares that individuals have other fundamental rights, in addition to those stated in the Constitution. During the Constitutional ratification debates Anti-Federalists argued that a Bill of Rights should be added. The Federalists opposed it on grounds that a list would necessarily be incomplete but would be taken as explicit and exhaustive, thus enlarging the power of the federal government by implication. The Anti-Federalists persisted, and several state ratification conventions refused to ratify the Constitution without a more specific list of protections, so the First Congress added what became the Ninth Amendment as a compromise. Because the rights protected by the Ninth Amendment are not specified, they are referred to as \"unenumerated\". The Supreme Court has found that unenumerated rights include such important rights as the right to travel, the right to vote, the right to privacy, and the right to make important decisions about one's health care or body.\n\nThe Tenth Amendment (1791) was included in the Bill of Rights to further define the balance of power between the federal government and the states. The amendment states that the federal government has only those powers specifically granted by the Constitution. These powers include the power to declare war, to collect taxes, to regulate interstate business activities and others that are listed in the articles or in subsequent constitutional amendments. Any power not listed is, says the Tenth Amendment, left to the states or the people. While there is no specific list of what these \"reserved powers\" may be, the Supreme Court has ruled that laws affecting family relations, commerce within a state's own borders, and local law enforcement activities, are among those specifically reserved to the states or the people.\n\nThe Eleventh Amendment (1795) specifically prohibits federal courts from hearing cases in which a state is sued by an individual from another state or another country, thus extending to the states sovereign immunity protection from certain types of legal liability. has been affected by this amendment, which also overturned the Supreme Court's decision in \"Chisholm v. Georgia\".\n\nThe Sixteenth Amendment (1913) removed existing Constitutional constraints that limited the power of Congress to lay and collect taxes on income. Specifically, the apportionment constraints delineated in Article 1, Section 9, Clause 4 have been removed by this amendment, which also overturned an 1895 Supreme Court decision, in \"Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.\", that declared an unapportioned federal income tax on rents, dividends, and interest unconstitutional. This amendment has become the basis for all subsequent federal income tax legislation and has greatly expanded the scope of federal taxing and spending in the years since.\n\nThe Eighteenth Amendment (1919) prohibited the making, transporting, and selling of alcoholic beverages nationwide. It also authorized Congress to enact legislation enforcing this prohibition. Adopted at the urging of a national temperance movement, proponents believed that the use of alcohol was reckless and destructive and that prohibition would reduce crime and corruption, solve social problems, decrease the need for welfare and prisons, and improve the health of all Americans. During prohibition, it is estimated that alcohol consumption and alcohol related deaths declined dramatically. But prohibition had other, more negative consequences. The amendment drove the lucrative alcohol business underground, giving rise to a large and pervasive black market. In addition, prohibition encouraged disrespect for the law and strengthened organized crime. Prohibition came to an end in 1933, when this amendment was repealed.\n\nThe Twenty-first Amendment (1933) repealed the Eighteenth Amendment and returned the regulation of alcohol to the states. Each state sets its own rules for the sale and importation of alcohol, including the drinking age. Because a federal law provides federal funds to states that prohibit the sale of alcohol to minors under the age of twenty-one, all fifty states have set their drinking age there. Rules about how alcohol is sold vary greatly from state to state.\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment (1865) abolished slavery and involuntary servitude, except as punishment for a crime, and authorized Congress to enforce abolition. Though millions of slaves had been declared free by the 1863 Emancipation Proclamation, their post Civil War status was unclear, as was the status of other millions. Congress intended the Thirteenth Amendment to be a proclamation of freedom for all slaves throughout the nation and to take the question of emancipation away from politics. This amendment rendered inoperative or moot several of the original parts of the constitution.\n\nThe Fourteenth Amendment (1868) granted United States citizenship to former slaves and to all persons \"subject to U.S. jurisdiction\". It also contained three new limits on state power: a state shall not violate a citizen's privileges or immunities; shall not deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law; and must guarantee all persons equal protection of the laws. These limitations dramatically expanded the protections of the Constitution. This amendment, according to the Supreme Court's Doctrine of Incorporation, makes most provisions of the Bill of Rights applicable to state and local governments as well. It superseded the mode of apportionment of representatives delineated in Article 1, Section 2, Clause 3, and also overturned the Supreme Court's decision in \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\".\n\nThe Fifteenth Amendment (1870) prohibits the use of race, color, or previous condition of servitude in determining which citizens may vote. The last of three post Civil War Reconstruction Amendments, it sought to abolish one of the key vestiges of slavery and to advance the civil rights and liberties of former slaves.\n\nThe Nineteenth Amendment (1920) prohibits the government from denying women the right to vote on the same terms as men. Prior to the amendment's adoption, only a few states permitted women to vote and to hold office.\n\nThe Twenty-third Amendment (1961) extends the right to vote in presidential elections to citizens residing in the District of Columbia by granting the District electors in the Electoral College, as if it were a state. When first established as the nation's capital in 1800, the District of Columbia's five thousand residents had neither a local government, nor the right to vote in federal elections. By 1960 the population of the District had grown to over 760,000 people.\n\nThe Twenty-fourth Amendment (1964) prohibits a poll tax for voting. Although passage of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments helped remove many of the discriminatory laws left over from slavery, they did not eliminate all forms of discrimination. Along with literacy tests and durational residency requirements, poll taxes were used to keep low-income (primarily African American) citizens from participating in elections. The Supreme Court has since struck down these discriminatory measures, opening democratic participation to all.\n\nThe Twenty-sixth Amendment (1971) prohibits the government from denying the right of United States citizens, eighteen years of age or older, to vote on account of age. The drive to lower the voting age was driven in large part by the broader student activism movement protesting the Vietnam War. It gained strength following the Supreme Court's decision in \"Oregon v. Mitchell\".\n\nThe Twelfth Amendment (1804) modifies the way the Electoral College chooses the President and Vice President. It stipulates that each elector must cast a distinct vote for President and Vice President, instead of two votes for President. It also suggests that the President and Vice President should not be from the same state. is superseded by this amendment, which also extends the to become President to the Vice President.\n\nThe Seventeenth Amendment (1913) modifies the way senators are elected. It stipulates that senators are to be elected by direct popular vote. The amendment supersedes , Clauses 1 and 2, under which the two senators from each state were elected by the state legislature. It also allows state legislatures to permit their governors to make temporary appointments until a special election can be held.\n\nThe Twentieth Amendment (1933) changes the date on which a new President, Vice President and Congress take office, thus shortening the time between Election Day and the beginning of Presidential, Vice Presidential and Congressional terms. Originally, the Constitution provided that the annual meeting was to be on the first Monday in December unless otherwise provided by law. This meant that, when a new Congress was elected in November, it did not come into office until the following March, with a \"lame duck\" Congress convening in the interim. By moving the beginning of the president's new term from March 4 to January 20 (and in the case of Congress, to January 3), proponents hoped to put an end to lame duck sessions, while allowing for a speedier transition for the new administration and legislators.\n\nThe Twenty-second Amendment (1951) limits an elected president to two terms in office, a total of eight years. However, under some circumstances it is possible for an individual to serve more than eight years. Although nothing in the original frame of government limited how many presidential terms one could serve, the nation's first president, George Washington, declined to run for a third term, suggesting that two terms of four years were enough for any president. This precedent remained an unwritten rule of the presidency until broken by Franklin D. Roosevelt, who was elected to a third term as president 1940 and in 1944 to a fourth.\n\nThe Twenty-fifth Amendment (1967) clarifies what happens upon the death, removal, or resignation of the President or Vice President and how the Presidency is temporarily filled if the President becomes disabled and cannot fulfill the responsibilities of the office. It supersedes the ambiguous succession rule established in . A concrete plan of succession has been needed on multiple occasions since 1789. However, for nearly 20% of U.S. history, there has been no vice president in office who can assume the presidency.\n\nThe Twenty-seventh Amendment (1992) prevents members of Congress from granting themselves pay raises during the current session. Rather, any raises that are adopted must take effect during the next session of Congress. Its proponents believed that Federal legislators would be more likely to be cautious about increasing congressional pay if they have no personal stake in the vote. has been affected by this amendment, which remained pending for over two centuries as it contained no time limit for ratification.\n\nCollectively, members of the House and Senate typically propose around 200 amendments during each two-year term of Congress. Most however, never get out of the Congressional committees in which they were proposed, and only a fraction of those that do receive enough support to win Congressional approval to actually go through the constitutional ratification process.\n\nSix amendments approved by Congress and proposed to the states for consideration have not been ratified by the required number of states to become part of the Constitution. Four of these are technically still pending, as Congress did not set a time limit (see also \"Coleman v. Miller\") for their ratification. The other two are no longer pending, as both had a time limit attached and in both cases the time period set for their ratification expired.\n\n\n\nThe way the Constitution is understood is influenced by court decisions, especially those of the Supreme Court. These decisions are referred to as precedents. Judicial review is the power of the Court to examine federal legislation, federal executive, and all state branches of government, to decide their constitutionality, and to strike them down if found unconstitutional.\n\nJudicial review includes the power of the Court to explain the meaning of the Constitution as it applies to particular cases. Over the years, Court decisions on issues ranging from governmental regulation of radio and television to the rights of the accused in criminal cases have changed the way many constitutional clauses are interpreted, without amendment to the actual text of the Constitution.\n\nLegislation passed to implement the Constitution, or to adapt those implementations to changing conditions, broadens and, in subtle ways, changes the meanings given to the words of the Constitution. Up to a point, the rules and regulations of the many federal executive agencies have a similar effect. If an action of Congress or the agencies is challenged, however, it is the court system that ultimately decides whether these actions are permissible under the Constitution.\n\nThe Supreme Court has indicated that once the Constitution has been extended to an area (by Congress or the Courts), its coverage is irrevocable. To hold that the political branches may switch the Constitution on or off at will would lead to a regime in which they, not this Court, say \"what the law is\".\n\nCourts established by the Constitution can regulate government under the Constitution, the supreme law of the land. First, they have jurisdiction over actions by an officer of government and state law. Second, federal courts may rule on whether coordinate branches of national government conform to the Constitution. Until the twentieth century, the Supreme Court of the United States may have been the only high tribunal in the world to use a court for constitutional interpretation of fundamental law, others generally depending on their national legislature.\n\nThe basic theory of American Judicial review is summarized by constitutional legal scholars and historians as follows: the written Constitution is fundamental law. It can change only by extraordinary legislative process of national proposal, then state ratification. The powers of all departments are limited to enumerated grants found in the Constitution. Courts are expected (a) to enforce provisions of the Constitution as the supreme law of the land, and (b) to refuse to enforce anything in conflict with it.\n\nIn Convention. As to judicial review and the Congress, the first proposals by Madison (Va) and Wilson (Pa) called for a supreme court veto over national legislation. In this it resembled the system in New York, where the Constitution of 1777 called for a \"Council of Revision\" by the Governor and Justices of the state supreme court. The Council would review and in a way, veto any passed legislation violating the spirit of the Constitution before it went into effect. The nationalist's proposal in Convention was defeated three times, and replaced by a presidential veto with Congressional over-ride. Judicial review relies on the jurisdictional authority in Article III, and the Supremacy Clause.\n\nThe justification for judicial review is to be explicitly found in the open ratifications held in the states and reported in their newspapers. John Marshall in Virginia, James Wilson in Pennsylvania and Oliver Ellsworth of Connecticut all argued for Supreme Court judicial review of acts of state legislature. In Federalist No. 78, Alexander Hamilton advocated the doctrine of a written document held as a superior enactment of the people. \"A limited constitution can be preserved in practice no other way\" than through courts which can declare void any legislation contrary to the Constitution. The preservation of the people's authority over legislatures rests \"particularly with judges\".\n\nThe Supreme Court was initially made up of jurists who had been intimately connected with the framing of the Constitution and the establishment of its government as law. John Jay (New York), a co-author of \"The Federalist Papers\", served as Chief Justice for the first six years. The second Chief Justice for a term of four years, was Oliver Ellsworth (Connecticut), a delegate in the Constitutional Convention, as was John Rutledge (South Carolina), Washington's recess appointment as Chief Justice who served in 1795. John Marshall (Virginia), the fourth Chief Justice, had served in the Virginia Ratification Convention in 1788. His service on the Court would extend 34 years over some of the most important rulings to help establish the nation the Constitution had begun. In the first years of the Supreme Court, members of the Constitutional Convention who would serve included James Wilson (Pennsylvania) for ten years, John Blair Jr. (Virginia) for five, and John Rutledge (South Carolina) for one year as Justice, then Chief Justice in 1795.\n\nWhen John Marshall followed Oliver Ellsworth as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court in 1801, the federal judiciary had been established by the Judiciary Act, but there were few cases, and less prestige. \"The fate of judicial review was in the hands of the Supreme Court itself.\" Review of state legislation and appeals from state supreme courts was understood. But the Court's life, jurisdiction over state legislation was limited. The Marshall Court's landmark \"Barron v. Baltimore\" held that the Bill of Rights restricted only the federal government, and not the states.\n\nIn the landmark \"Marbury v. Madison\" case, the Supreme Court asserted its authority of judicial review over Acts of Congress. Its findings were that Marbury and the others had a right to their commissions as judges in the District of Columbia. Marshall, writing the opinion for the majority, announced his discovered conflict between Section 13 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 and Article III. In this case, both the Constitution and the statutory law applied to the particulars at the same time. \"The very essence of judicial duty\" according to Marshall was to determine which of the two conflicting rules should govern. The Constitution enumerates powers of the judiciary to extend to cases arising \"under the Constitution\". Further, justices take a Constitutional oath to uphold it as \"Supreme law of the land\". Therefore, since the United States government as created by the Constitution is a limited government, the Federal courts were required to choose the Constitution over Congressional law if there were deemed to be a conflict.\n\n\"This argument has been ratified by time and by practice...\" The Supreme Court did not declare another Act of Congress unconstitutional until the controversial Dred Scott decision in 1857, held after the voided Missouri Compromise statute had already been repealed. In the eighty years following the Civil War to World War II, the Court voided Congressional statutes in 77 cases, on average almost one a year.\n\nSomething of a crisis arose when, in 1935 and 1936, the Supreme Court handed down twelve decisions voiding Acts of Congress relating to the New Deal. President Franklin D. Roosevelt then responded with his abortive \"court packing plan\". Other proposals have suggested a Court super-majority to overturn Congressional legislation, or a Constitutional Amendment to require that the Justices retire at a specified age by law. To date, the Supreme Court's power of judicial review has persisted.\n\nThe power of judicial review could not have been preserved long in a democracy unless it had been \"wielded with a reasonable measure of judicial restraint, and with some attention, as Mr. Dooley said, to the election returns.\" Indeed, the Supreme Court has developed a system of doctrine and practice that self-limits its power of judicial review.\n\nThe Court controls almost all of its business by choosing what cases to consider, writs of certiorari. In this way, it can avoid opinions on embarrassing or difficult cases. The Supreme Court limits itself by defining for itself what is a \"justiciable question.\" First, the Court is fairly consistent in refusing to make any \"advisory opinions\" in advance of actual cases. Second, \"friendly suits\" between those of the same legal interest are not considered. Third, the Court requires a \"personal interest\", not one generally held, and a legally protected right must be immediately threatened by government action. Cases are not taken up if the litigant has no standing to sue. Simply having the money to sue and being injured by government action are not enough.\n\nThese three procedural ways of dismissing cases have led critics to charge that the Supreme Court delays decisions by unduly insisting on technicalities in their \"standards of litigability\". They say cases are left unconsidered which are in the public interest, with genuine controversy, and resulting from good faith action. \"The Supreme Court is not only a court of law but a court of justice.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court balances several pressures to maintain its roles in national government. It seeks to be a co-equal branch of government, but its decrees must be enforceable. The Court seeks to minimize situations where it asserts itself superior to either President or Congress, but federal officers must be held accountable. The Supreme Court assumes power to declare acts of Congress as unconstitutional but it self-limits its passing on constitutional questions. But the Court's guidance on basic problems of life and governance in a democracy is most effective when American political life reinforce its rulings.\n\nJustice Brandeis summarized four general guidelines that the Supreme Court uses to avoid constitutional decisions relating to Congress: The Court will not anticipate a question of constitutional law nor decide open questions unless a case decision requires it. If it does, a rule of constitutional law is formulated only as the precise facts in the case require. The Court will choose statutes or general law for the basis of its decision if it can without constitutional grounds. If it does, the Court will choose a constitutional construction of an Act of Congress, even if its constitutionality is seriously in doubt. \n\nLikewise with the Executive Department, Edwin Corwin observed that the Court does sometimes rebuff presidential pretensions, but it more often tries to rationalize them. Against Congress, an Act is merely \"disallowed\". In the executive case, exercising judicial review produces \"some change in the external world\" beyond the ordinary judicial sphere. The \"political question\" doctrine especially applies to questions which present a difficult enforcement issue. Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes addressed the Court's limitation when political process allowed future policy change, but a judicial ruling would \"attribute finality\". Political questions lack \"satisfactory criteria for a judicial determination\".\n\nJohn Marshall recognized that the president holds \"important political powers\" which as Executive privilege allows great discretion. This doctrine was applied in Court rulings on President Grant's duty to enforce the law during Reconstruction. It extends to the sphere of foreign affairs. Justice Robert Jackson explained, Foreign affairs are inherently political, \"wholly confided by our Constitution to the political departments of the government ... [and] not subject to judicial intrusion or inquiry.\"\n\nCritics of the Court object in two principal ways to self-restraint in judicial review, deferring as it does as a matter of doctrine to Acts of Congress and Presidential actions.\nSupreme Courts under the leadership of subsequent Chief Justices have also used judicial review to interpret the Constitution among individuals, states and federal branches. Notable contributions were made by the Chase Court, the Taft Court, the Warren Court, and the Rehnquist Court.\nSalmon P. Chase was a Lincoln appointee, serving as Chief Justice from 1864 to 1873. His career encompassed service as a U.S. Senator and Governor of Ohio. He coined the slogan, \"Free soil, free Labor, free men.\" One of Lincoln's \"team of rivals\", he was appointed Secretary of Treasury during the Civil War, issuing \"greenbacks\". To appease radical Republicans, Lincoln appointed him to replace Chief Justice Roger B. Taney of Dred Scott case fame.\n\nIn one of his first official acts, Chase admitted John Rock, the first African-American to practice before the Supreme Court. The \"Chase Court\" is famous for \"Texas v. White\", which asserted a permanent Union of indestructible states. \"Veazie Bank v. Fenno\" upheld the Civil War tax on state banknotes. \"Hepburn v. Griswold\" found parts of the Legal Tender Acts unconstitutional, though it was reversed under a late Supreme Court majority.\n\nWilliam Howard Taft was a Harding appointment to Chief Justice from 1921 to 1930. A Progressive Republican from Ohio, he was a one-term President.\n\nAs Chief Justice, he advocated the Judiciary Act of 1925 that brought the Federal District Courts under the administrative jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. Taft successfully sought the expansion of Court jurisdiction over non- states such as District of Columbia and Territories of Alaska and Hawaii.\n\nIn 1925, the Taft Court issued a ruling overturning a Marshall Court ruling on the Bill of Rights. In \"Gitlow v. New York\", the Court established the doctrine of \"incorporation which applied the Bill of Rights to the states. Important cases included the \"Board of Trade of City of Chicago v. Olsen\" that upheld Congressional regulation of commerce. \"Olmstead v. United States\" allowed exclusion of evidence obtained without a warrant based on application of the 14th Amendment proscription against unreasonable searches. \"Wisconsin v. Illinois\" ruled the equitable power of the United States can impose positive action on a state to prevent its inaction from damaging another state.\nEarl Warren was an Eisenhower nominee, Chief Justice from 1953 to 1969. Warren's Republican career in the law reached from County Prosecutor, California state attorney general, and three consecutive terms as Governor. His programs stressed progressive efficiency, expanding state education, re-integrating returning veterans, infrastructure and highway construction.\n\nIn 1954, the Warren Court overturned a landmark Fuller Court ruling on the Fourteenth Amendment interpreting racial segregation as permissible in government and commerce providing \"separate but equal\" services. Warren built a coalition of Justices after 1962 that developed the idea of natural rights as guaranteed in the Constitution. \"Brown v. Board of Education\" banned segregation in public schools. \"Baker v. Carr\" and \"Reynolds v. Sims\" established Court ordered \"one-man-one-vote\". Bill of Rights Amendments were incorporated into the states. Due process was expanded in \"Gideon v. Wainwright\" and \"Miranda v. Arizona.\" First Amendment rights were addressed in \"Griswold v. Connecticut\" concerning privacy, and \"Engel v. Vitale\" relative to free speech.\nWilliam Rehnquist was a Reagan appointment to Chief Justice, serving from 1986 to 2005. While he would concur with overthrowing a state supreme court's decision, as in \"Bush v. Gore\", he built a coalition of Justices after 1994 that developed the idea of federalism as provided for in the Tenth Amendment. In the hands of the Supreme Court, the Constitution and its Amendments were to restrain Congress, as in \"City of Boerne v. Flores\".\n\nNevertheless, the Rehnquist Court was noted in the contemporary \"culture wars\" for overturning state laws relating to privacy prohibiting late-term abortions in \"Stenberg v. Carhart\", prohibiting sodomy in \"Lawrence v. Texas\", or ruling so as to protect free speech in \"Texas v. Johnson\" or affirmative action in \"Grutter v. Bollinger\".\n\nThere is a viewpoint that some Americans have come to see the documents of the Constitution, along with the Declaration of Independence and the Bill of Rights, as being a cornerstone of a type of civil religion. This is suggested by the prominent display of the Constitution, along with the Declaration of Independence and the Bill of Rights, in massive, bronze-framed, bulletproof, moisture-controlled glass containers vacuum-sealed in a rotunda by day and in multi-ton bomb-proof vaults by night at the National Archives Building.\n\nThe idea of displaying the documents struck one academic critic looking from the point of view of the 1776 or 1789 America as \"idolatrous, and also curiously at odds with the values of the Revolution\". By 1816, Jefferson wrote that \"[s]ome men look at constitutions with sanctimonious reverence and deem them like the Ark of the Covenant, too sacred to be touched\". But he saw imperfections and imagined that there could potentially be others, believing as he did that \"institutions must advance also\".\n\nSome commentators depict the multi-ethnic, multi-sectarian United States as held together by a political orthodoxy, in contrast with a nation state of people having more \"natural\" ties.\n\nThe United States Constitution has been a notable model for governance around the world. Its international influence is found in similarities of phrasing and borrowed passages in other constitutions, as well as in the principles of the rule of law, separation of powers and recognition of individual rights. The American experience of fundamental law with amendments and judicial review has motivated constitutionalists at times when they were considering the possibilities for their nation's future. It informed Abraham Lincoln during the American Civil War, his contemporary and ally Benito Juárez of Mexico, and the second generation of 19th-century constitutional nationalists, José Rizal of the Philippines and Sun Yat-sen of China. Since the latter half of the 20th century, the influence of the United States Constitution may be waning as other countries have revised their constitutions with new influences.\n\nThe United States Constitution has faced various criticisms since its inception in 1787.\n\nThe Constitution did not originally define who was eligible to vote, allowing each state to determine who was eligible. In the early history of the U.S., most states allowed only white male adult property owners to vote. Until the Reconstruction Amendments were adopted between 1865 and 1870, the five years immediately following the Civil War, the Constitution did not abolish slavery, nor give citizenship and voting rights to former slaves. These amendments did not include a specific prohibition on discrimination on the basis of sex; it took another amendment – the Nineteenth, ratified in 1920 – for the Constitution to prohibit any United States citizen from being denied the right to vote on the basis of sex.\n\n\nRelated documents\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "293401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293401", "title": "Vassal state", "text": "Vassal state\n\nA vassal state is any state that is subordinate to another. The vassal in these cases is the ruler, rather than the state itself. Being a vassal most commonly implies providing military assistance to the dominant state when requested to do so; it sometimes implies paying tribute, but a state which does so is better described as a tributary state. In simpler terms the vassal state would have to provide military power to the dominant state. Today, more common terms are puppet state, protectorate, client state, or associated state.\n\nFrom the time of the Zhou Dynasty (1046–770 BC) until the Han Dynasty (206 BC–220 AD), a varying number of vassal states existed in ancient China.\n\nThese ranged in size from small city states to vassals which controlled large swathes of territory such as the States of Chu and Qi. One of these vassal states would go on to conquer China and unite the country under the first emperor Qin Shi Huang.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire (1299–AD 1923 ) controlled a number of tributary or vassal states in the peripheral areas of its territory. Vassalage took a number of different forms with some states permitted to elect their own leaders. Other states paid tribute for their lands.\n\nDuring the 18th century, the Ottoman Empire controlled many vassal and tributary states such as the principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia, or the Crimean Khanate.\n\nTroy was a vassal state of the Hittites, along with other Arzawa lands.\n"}
