{"id": "38233555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38233555", "title": "Abusive power and control", "text": "Abusive power and control\n\nAbusive power and control (also controlling behavior, coercive control and sharp power) is the way that an abusive person gains and maintains power and control over another person, as a victim, in order to subject that person to psychological, physical, sexual, or financial abuse. The motivations of the abuser are varied, such as personal gain, personal gratification, psychological projection, devaluation, envy or just for the sake of it as the abuser may simply enjoy exercising power and control.\n\nControlling abusers use tactics to exert power and control over their victims. The tactics themselves are psychologically and sometimes physically abusive. Control may be helped through economic abuse thus limiting the victim's actions as they may then lack the necessary resources to resist the abuse. The goal of the abuser is to control and intimidate the victim or to influence them to feel that they do not have an equal voice in the relationship.\n\nManipulators and abusers control their victims with a range of tactics, including positive reinforcement (such as praise, superficial charm, flattery, ingratiation, love bombing, smiling, gifts, attention), negative reinforcement, intermittent or partial reinforcement, psychological punishment (such as nagging, silent treatment, swearing, threats, intimidation, emotional blackmail, guilt trips, inattention) and traumatic tactics (such as verbal abuse or explosive anger).\n\nThe vulnerabilities of the victim are exploited with those who are particularly vulnerable being most often selected as targets. Traumatic bonding can occur between the abuser and victim as the result of ongoing cycles of abuse in which the intermittent reinforcement of reward and punishment creates powerful emotional bonds that are resistant to change and a climate of fear. An attempt may be made to normalise, legitimise, rationalise, deny, or minimise the abusive behaviour, or blame the victim for it.\n\nIsolation, gaslighting, mind games, lying, disinformation, propaganda, destabilisation and divide and rule are other strategies that are often used. The victim may be plied with alcohol or drugs to help disorientate them.\n\nCertain personality types feel particularly compelled to control other people.\n\nIn the study of personality psychology, certain personality disorders display characteristics involving the need to gain compliance or control over others: \n\nControl freaks are often perfectionists defending themselves against their own inner vulnerabilities in the belief that if they are not in total control they risk exposing themselves once more to childhood angst. Such persons manipulate and pressure others to change so as to avoid having to change themselves, and use power over others to escape an inner emptiness. When a control freak's pattern is broken, the controller is left with a terrible feeling of powerlessness but feeling their pain and fear brings them back to themselves.\n\nIn terms of personality-type theory, control freaks are very much the Type A personality, driven by the need to dominate and control. An obsessive need to control others is also associated with antisocial personality disorder.\n\nBraiker identified the following ways that manipulators control their victims:\n\nManipulators may have:\n\nEmotional blackmail is a term coined by psychotherapist Susan Forward, about controlling people in relationships and the theory that fear, obligation and guilt (FOG) are the transactional dynamics at play between the controller and the person being controlled. Understanding these dynamics are useful to anyone trying to extricate from the controlling behavior of another person, and deal with their own compulsions to do things that are uncomfortable, undesirable, burdensome, or self-sacrificing for others.\n\nForward and Frazier identify four blackmail types each with their own mental manipulation style:\nThere are different levels of demands - demands that are of little consequence, demands that involve important issues or personal integrity, demands that affect major life decisions, and/or demands that are dangerous or illegal.\n\nThe silent treatment is sometimes used as a control mechanism. When so used, it constitutes a passive-aggressive action characterized by the coupling of nonverbal but nonetheless unambiguous indications of the presence of negative emotion with the refusal to discuss the scenario triggering those emotions and, when those emotions' source is unclear to the other party, occasionally the refusal to clarify it or even to identify that source at all. As a result, the perpetrator of the silent treatment denies the victim both the opportunity to negotiate an after-the-fact settlement of the grievance in question and the ability to modify his/her future behavior to avoid giving further offense. In especially severe cases, even if the victim gives in and accedes to the perpetrator's initial demands, the perpetrator may continue the silent treatment so as to deny the victim feedback indicating that those demands have been satisfied. The silent treatment thereby enables its perpetrator to cause hurt, obtain ongoing attention in the form of repeated attempts by the victim to restore dialogue, maintain a position of power through creating uncertainty over how long the verbal silence and associated impossibility of resolution will last, and derive the satisfaction that the perpetrator associates with each of these consequences.\n\nThe expression has been used to describe the tactics used by pimps and gang members to control their victims, as well as to describe the behavior of an abusive narcissist who tries to win the confidence of a victim.\n\nOne sense of mind games is a largely conscious struggle for psychological one-upmanship, often employing passive–aggressive behavior to specifically demoralize or dis-empower the thinking subject, making the aggressor look superior; also referred to as \"power games\".\n\nIn intimate relationships, mind games can be used to undermine one partner's belief in the validity of their own perceptions. Personal experience may be denied and driven from memory; and such abusive mind games may extend to denial of the victim's reality, social undermining, and the trivializing of what is felt to be important. Both sexes have equal opportunities for such verbal coercion, which may be carried out unconsciously as a result of the need to maintain one's own self-deception.\n\nA primary strategy the narcissist uses to assert control, particularly within their family, is to create divisions among individuals. This weakens and isolates them, making it easier for the narcissist to manipulate and dominate. Some are favoured, others are scapegoated. Such dynamics can play out in a workplace setting.\n\nThe power and control \"wheel\" was developed in 1982 by the Domestic Abuse Program in Minneapolis to explain the nature of abuse, to delineate the forms of abuse used to control another person, and to educate people with the goal of stopping violence and abuse. The model is used in many batterer intervention programs, and is known as the Duluth model. Power and control is generally present with violent physical and sexual abuse.\n\nOften the abusers are initially attentive, charming and loving, gaining the trust of the individual that will ultimately become the victim, also known as the survivor. When there is a connection and a degree of trust, the abusers become unusually involved in their partner's feelings, thoughts and actions. Next, they set petty rules and exhibit \"pathological jealousy\". A conditioning process begins with alternation of loving followed by abusive behavior. According to \"Counselling Survivors of Domestic Abuse\", \"These serve to confuse the survivor leading to potent conditioning processes that impact on the survivor's self-structure and cognitive schemas.\" The abuser projects responsibility for the abuse on to the victim, or survivor, and the denigration and negative projections become incorporated into the survivor's self-image.\n\nTraumatic bonding occurs as the result of ongoing cycles of abuse in which the intermittent reinforcement of reward and punishment creates powerful emotional bonds that are resistant to change.\n\nControlling abusers use multiple tactics to exert power and control over their partners. According to Jill Cory and Karen McAndless-Davis, authors of \"When Love Hurts: A Woman's Guide to Understanding Abuse in Relationships\": Each of the tactics within the power and control wheel are used to \"maintain power and control in the relationship. No matter what tactics your partner uses, the effect is to control and intimidate you or to influence you to feel that you do not have an equal voice in the relationship.\"\n\nA tool for exerting control and power is the use of threats and coercion. The victim may be subject to threats that they will be left, hurt, or reported to welfare. The abuser may threaten that they will commit suicide. They may also coerce them to perform illegal actions or to drop charges that they may have against their abuser. Strangulation, a particularly pernicious abusive behavior in which the abuser literally has the victim’s life in his hands, is an extreme form of abusive control. Sorenson and colleagues have called strangulation the domestic violence equivalent of waterboarding, which is widely considered to be a form of torture.\n\nAt its most effective, the abuser creates intimidation and fear through unpredictable and inconsistent behavior. Absolute control may be sought by any of four types of sadists: explosive, enforcing, tyrannical, or spineless sadists. The victims are at risk of anxiety, dissociation, depression, shame, low self-esteem and suicidal ideation.\n\nAbused individuals may be intimidated by the brandishing of weapons, destruction of their property or other things, or use of gestures or looks to create fear. For example, threatening to use a gun or simply displaying the weapon is a form of intimidation and coercive control.\n\nAn effective means of ensuring control and power over another is to control their access to money. One method is to prevent the abusee from getting or retaining a job. Controlling their access to money can also be done by withholding information and access to family income, taking their money, requiring the person to ask for money, giving them an allowance, or filing a power of attorney or conservatorship, particularly in the case of economic abuse of the elderly.\n\nEmotional abuse include name-calling, playing mind games, putting the victim down, or humiliating the individual. The goals are to make the person feel bad about themselves, feel guilty or think that they are crazy.\n\nAnother element of psychological control is the isolation of the victim from the outside world. Isolation includes controlling a person's social activity: who they see, who they talk to, where they go, and any other method to limit their access to others. It may also include limiting what material is read. It can include insisting on knowing where they are and requiring permission for medical care. The abuser exhibits hypersensitive and reactive jealousy.\n\nThe abuser may deny the abuse occurred to attempt to place the responsibility for their behavior on the victim. Minimizing concerns or the degree of the abuse is another aspect of this control.\n\nChildren may be used to exert control by the abuser threatening to take the children or making them feel guilty about the children. It could include harassing them during visitation or using the children to relay messages. Another controlling tactic is abusing pets.\n\nUsing \"privilege\" means that the abuser defines the roles in the relationship, makes the important decisions, treats the individual like a servant and acts like the \"master of the castle\".\n\nA power and control model has been developed for the workplace, divided into the following categories:\n\nAn essential prerequisite of bullying is the perception, by the bully or by others, of an imbalance of social or physical power.\n\nThe authors of the book \"\" describe a five phase model of how a typical workplace psychopath climbs to and maintains power:\n\nAccording to anti-bullying author and activist Tim Field, bullies are attracted to the caring professions, such as medicine, by the opportunities to exercise power over vulnerable clients, and over vulnerable employees and students.\n\nInstitutional abuse is the maltreatment of a person (often children or older adults) from a system of power. This can range from acts similar to home-based child abuse, such as neglect, physical and sexual abuse, and hunger, to the effects of assistance programs working below acceptable service standards, or relying on harsh or unfair ways to modify behavior.\n\nThe use of coercion by perpetrators and traffickers involves the use of extreme control. Perpetrators expose the victim to high amounts of psychological stress induced by threats, fear, and physical and emotional violence. Tactics of coercion are reportedly used in three phases of trafficking: recruitment, initiation, and indoctrination. During the initiation phase, traffickers use foot-in-the-door techniques of persuasion to lead their victims into various trafficking industries. This manipulation creates an environment where the victim becomes completely dependent upon the authority of the trafficker. Traffickers take advantage of family dysfunction, homelessness, and history of childhood abuse to psychologically manipulate women and children into the trafficking industry.\n\nThe goal of a trafficker is to turn a human being into a slave. To do this, perpetrators employ tactics that can lead to the psychological consequence of learned helplessness for the victims, where they sense that they no longer have any autonomy or control over their lives. Traffickers may hold their victims captive, expose them to large amounts of alcohol or use drugs, keep them in isolation, or withhold food or sleep. During this time the victim often begins to feel the onset of depression, guilt and self-blame, anger and rage, and sleep disturbances, PTSD, numbing, and extreme stress. Under these pressures, the victim can fall into the hopeless mental state of learned helplessness.\n\nChildren are especially vulnerable to these developmental and psychological consequences of trafficking because they are so young. In order to gain complete control of the child, traffickers often destroy physical and mental health of the children through persistent physical and emotional abuse. Stockholm syndrome is also a common problem for girls while they are trafficked, which can hinder them from both trying to escape, and moving forward in psychological recovery programs.\n\nOppression is the exercise of authority or power in a burdensome, cruel, or unjust manner.\n\nThe practice of repression in Zersetzung comprised extensive and secret methods of control and psychological manipulation, including personal relationships of the target, for which the Stasi relied on its network of informal collaborators, (in German \"inoffizielle Mitarbeiter\" or \"IM\"), the State's power over institutions, and on operational psychology. Using targeted psychological attacks the Stasi tried to deprive a dissident of any chance of a \"hostile action\".\n\nThe main objective for one type of serial killer is to gain and exert power over their victim. Such killers are sometimes abused as children, leaving them with feelings of powerlessness and inadequacy as adults. Many power- or control-motivated killers sexually abuse their victims, but they differ from hedonistic killers in that rape is not motivated by lust (as it would be with a lust murder) but as simply another form of dominating the victim. (See article causes of sexual violence for the differences regarding anger rape, power rape, and sadistic rape.) Ted Bundy is an example of a power/control-oriented serial killer. He traveled around the United States seeking women to control.\n\nIn December 2015, controlling or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship was made illegal in England and Wales.\n\n"}
{"id": "5563510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5563510", "title": "Adolf Grünbaum", "text": "Adolf Grünbaum\n\nAdolf Grünbaum (; May 15, 1923 – November 15, 2018) was a German-American philosopher of science and a critic of psychoanalysis, as well as Karl Popper's philosophy of science. He was the first Andrew Mellon Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh from 1960 until his death, and also served as Co-Chairman of its Center for Philosophy of Science (from 1978), Research Professor of Psychiatry (from 1979), and Primary Research Professor in the Department of History and Philosophy of Science (from 2006). His works include \"Philosophical Problems of Space and Time\" (1963), \"The Foundations of Psychoanalysis\" (1984), and \"Validation in the Clinical Theory of Psychoanalysis\" (1993).\n\nAdolf Grünbaum's family left Nazi Germany in 1938 and emigrated to the United States.\nHe received a B.A. with twofold High Distinction in Philosophy and in Mathematics from Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut in 1943. \n\nDuring the second world war, Grünbaum was trained at Camp Ritchie, Maryland, and thus was one of the Ritchie Boys. He was stationed in Berlin and interrogated highly-placed Nazis, returning to the United States in 1946.\n\nGrünbaum obtained both his M.S. in physics (1948) and his Ph.D in philosophy (1951) from Yale University. He was a chaired professor of Philosophy at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania (1956–1960), after rising through the ranks there, starting in 1950, becoming a full professor in 1955.\n\nIn the fall of 1960, Grünbaum left Lehigh University to join the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh, where he became the first Andrew Mellon Professor of Philosophy. In that year, he also became the founding Director of that University's Center for Philosophy of Science, serving as Director until 1978. He and the colleagues he recruited then built world-class Philosophy and History and Philosophy of Science Departments at the university. Several of these colleagues had come from Yale University's Philosophy Department, starting in 1962. During this recruitment period the University of Pittsburgh appointed Nicholas Rescher, Wilfrid Sellars, Richard Gale, Nuel Belnap, Alan Ross Anderson, and Gerald Massey, among others.\n\nIn 2003, Grünbaum resigned from the Department of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh, while retaining his lifetime tenured Mellon Chair and all of his other affiliations at that university.\n\nGrünbaum served as President of both the American Philosophical Association (Eastern Division) and the Philosophy of Science Association (two terms). He was the director of the Center for Philosophy of Science from 1960 to 1978. He was the president of the Division of Logic, Methodology and Philosophy of Science of the International Union of History and Philosophy of Science (IUHPS) in 2004–2005 and then automatically became president of the IUHPS from 2006 to 2007. He is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nHe received the Senior U.S. Scientist Prize from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (Germany, 1985), the Fregene Prize for science from the Italian Parliament (1998) and the Wilbur Lucius Cross Medal for outstanding achievement from Yale University (1990). Also, in May 1995, he received an honorary doctorate from the University of Konstanz in Germany and, in 2013, an honorary doctorate of philosophy from the University of Cologne in Germany. In 2013, he received the Großes Bundesverdienstkreuz from the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nGrünbaum was Jewish. He died in November 2018 at the age of 95.\n\nGrünbaum was the author of nearly 400 articles and book chapters as well as books on space-time and the critique of psychoanalysis. He is often viewed as part of the American brand of logical empiricism, associated especially with Hans Reichenbach. \n\nGrünbaum did not embrace the prevailing — especially among physical scientists — Popperian philosophy of science, leading to some notoriety in the 1960s after he was ridiculed in print by the iconic physicist Richard Feynman. A much-quoted exchange followed Grünbaum's neo-Leibnizian suggestion that the flow of time might be an illusion only in conscious entities, in which Feynman asked whether dogs, then cockroaches, were sufficiently conscious entities. Reportedly as a mark of further disdain, Feynman refused to let his name be printed, becoming instead the easily recognizable \"Mr. X\".\n\nSome 40 years later, writer Jim Holt would characterize Grünbaum as, in the 1950s, \"the foremost thinker about the subtleties of space and time,\" and as, by the 2000s, \"arguably the greatest living philosopher of science.\" Holt portrays a rationalist Grünbaum who rejects any hint of mysteriousness in the cosmos (a \"great rejector\").\n\n\nThree celebratory books (\"Festschrift\" volumes) dealing with his work have been published to date:\n\n"}
{"id": "716672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=716672", "title": "Agency (philosophy)", "text": "Agency (philosophy)\n\nAgency is the capacity of an actor to act in a given environment. The capacity to act does not at first imply a specific moral dimension to the ability to make the choice to act, and moral agency is therefore a distinct concept. In sociology, an agent is an individual engaging with the social structure. Notably, though, the primacy of social structure vs. individual capacity with regard to persons' actions is debated within sociology. This debate concerns, at least partly, the level of reflexivity an agent may possess.\n\nAgency may either be classified as unconscious, involuntary behavior, or purposeful, goal directed activity (intentional action). An agent typically has some sort of immediate awareness of their physical activity and the goals that the activity is aimed at realizing. In ‘goal directed action’ an agent implements a kind of direct control or guidance over their own behavior.\n\nAgency is contrasted to objects reacting to natural forces involving only unthinking deterministic processes. In this respect, agency is subtly distinct from the concept of free will, the philosophical doctrine that our choices are not the product of causal chains, but are significantly free or undetermined. Human agency entails the claim that humans do in fact make decisions and enact them on the world. \"How\" humans come to make decisions, by free choice or other processes, is another issue.\n\nThe capacity of a human to act as an agent is personal to that human, though considerations of the outcomes flowing from particular acts of human agency for us and others can then be thought to invest a moral component into a given situation wherein an agent has acted, and thus to involve moral agency. If a situation is the consequence of human decision making, persons may be under a duty to apply value judgments to the consequences of their decisions, and held to be responsible for those decisions. Human agency entitles the observer to ask \"should this have occurred?\" in a way that would be nonsensical in circumstances lacking human decisions-makers, for example, the impact of comet Shoemaker–Levy on Jupiter.\n\nThe philosophical discipline in charge of studying agency is action theory. In certain philosophical traditions (particularly those established by Hegel and Marx), human agency is a collective, historical dynamic, rather than a function arising out of individual behavior. Hegel's Geist and Marx's universal class are idealist and materialist expressions of this idea of humans treated as social beings, organized to act in concert. Also look at the debate, philosophically derived in part from the works of Hume, between determinism and indeterminacy.\n\nStructure and agency forms an enduring core debate in sociology. Essentially the same as in the Marxist conception, \"agency\" refers to the capacity of individuals to act independently and to make their own free choices, based on their will, whereas \"structure\" refers to those factors (such as social class, but also religion, gender, ethnicity, subculture, etc.) that seem to limit or influence the opportunities that individuals have.\n\nOther notions of agency have arisen in the field of economics/management, psychology and social cybernetics:\n\nIn economics (contract theory):\n\n\"Economic agency\" is an internal instrumentality through which external influences operate mechanistically on action. Internal agency events are a reflection of the impact of external environments from which causal attributes are ignored, and the self-system is simply a repository and conduit for environmental forces.\n\nIn psychology:\n\nThe term of agency used in different fields of psychology with different meaning. It can refer to the ability of recognizing agents or attributing agency to objects based on simple perceptual cues or principles, for instance the principle of rationality, which holds that context-sensitive, goal-directed efficient actions are the crucial characteristics of agents. This topic is thoroughly investigated by developmental and comparative psychologists to understand how an observer is able to differentiate agentive entities from inanimate objects, but it can be also related to the term of autonomous intelligent agency used in cybernetics. Agency can also imply the sense of agency, that is the feeling of being in control.\n\n\"Emergent interactive agency\" defines Bandura's view of agencies, where human agency can be exercised through direct personal agency. Bandura formulates his view of agency as a socio-cognitive one, where people are self-organizing, proactive, self-regulating, and engage in self-reflection, and are not just reactive organisms shaped and shepherded by external events. People have the power to influence their own actions to produce certain results. The capacity to exercise control over one’s thought processes, motivation, affect, and action operates through mechanisms of personal agency. Such agencies are emergent and interactive, apply perspectives of social cognition, and make causal contributions to its own motivations and actions using ‘reciprocal causation’.\n\nIn social cybernetics:\n\n\"Autonomous agency\" is able to embrace the concepts of both the economic agency and the emergent interactive agency. An autonomous system is self-directed, operating in, and being influenced by, interactive environments. It usually has its own immanent dynamics that impact on the way it interacts. It is also adaptable and (hence viable thus having a durable existence), proactive, self-organizing, self-regulating and so forth, participates in creating its own behaviour, and contributes to its life circumstances through cognitive and cultural functionality. Autonomous agency may also be concerned with the relationship between two or more agencies in a mutual relationship with each other and their environments, with imperatives for an agency's behaviour within an interactive context due to immanent emergent attributes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52659", "title": "Albert Brudzewski", "text": "Albert Brudzewski\n\nAlbert Brudzewski, \"also\" Albert Blar (of Brudzewo), Albert of Brudzewo or Wojciech Brudzewski (in Latin, \"Albertus de Brudzewo\"; c.1445–c.1497) was a Polish astronomer, mathematician, philosopher and diplomat.\n\nAlbert (in Polish, \"Wojciech\"), who would sign himself \"de Brudzewo\" (\"of Brudzewo\"), was born about 1445, in Brudzewo, near Kalisz. Scant information exists about his early life. It is only known that as a 23-year-old he matriculated at the Kraków Academy (now Jagiellonian University), where he remained through nearly all his life, teaching there for two decades. He served as the Academy's dean, as \"procurator\" (administrator of its property), and as head of the \"Bursa Hungarorum\" (\"Hungarians' Dormitory\").\n\nAlbert is remembered as a remarkable teacher. At the Kraków Academy he impressed students by his extraordinary knowledge of literature, and taught mathematics and astronomy. When in 1490 he became a bachelor of theology, he also lectured on Aristotle's philosophy. These lectures were attended by Nicolaus Copernicus, who enrolled at the Academy in 1491. A major accomplishment of Albert's was his modernization of the teaching of astronomy by introducing the most up-to-date texts.\n\nAlbert was well versed in Georg von Peuerbach's \"Theory of the Planets\" and Regiomontanus' \"Astronomical Tables\". He was skeptical of the geocentric system. He was the first to state that the Moon moves in an ellipse and always shows its same side to the Earth.\n\nHe drew up tables for calculating the positions of heavenly bodies. In 1482 he wrote a \"Commentum planetarium in theoricas Georgii Purbachii\"—a commentary on Georg von Peuerbach's text, \"New Theories of the Planets\"—published in Milan by his pupil, Jan Otto de Kraceusae.\n\nBesides Copernicus, Albert's students included the mathematician Bernard Wapowski and the German poet and Renaissance humanist, Conrad Celtis, who in Kraków established the first Central European literary society, \"Sodalitas Litterana Vistulana\".\n\nIn 1495, at the behest of Cardinal Fryderyk Jagiellończyk (Frederick Jagiellon), Brudzewski moved to Vilnius as secretary to Grand Duke of Lithuania Aleksander Jagiellon, who would later become King Alexander of Poland. He served the Grand Duke as a diplomat; one of his most important missions involved negotiations with Muscovy's Tsar Ivan the Terrible. It was in Vilnius that Albert wrote his treatise, \"Conciliator\", whose original has yet to be found.\n\nAlbert of Brudzewo died in Vilnius. The exact date of his death is not known; some sources state that he died at the age of fifty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "283120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283120", "title": "American Philosophical Society", "text": "American Philosophical Society\n\nThe American Philosophical Society (APS), founded in 1743 and located in Philadelphia, is an eminent scholarly organization of international reputation that promotes useful knowledge in the sciences and humanities through excellence in scholarly research, professional meetings, publications, library resources, and community outreach. Considered the first learned society in the United States, it has played an important role in American cultural and intellectual life for over 270 years.\n\nThrough research grants, published journals, the American Philosophical Society Museum, an extensive library, and regular meetings, the society continues to advance a variety of disciplines in the humanities and the sciences. Philosophical Hall, now a museum, is located just east of Independence Hall in Independence National Historical Park; it was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1965.\n\nThe Philosophical Society, as it was originally called, was founded in 1743 by Benjamin Franklin, James Alexander (lawyer), Francis Hopkinson, John Bartram, Philip Syng, Jr. and others as an offshoot of an earlier club, the Junto. It was founded two years after the University of Pennsylvania, with which it remains closely tied.\n\nSince its inception, the society attracted America's finest minds. Early members included George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton, James McHenry, Thomas Paine, David Rittenhouse, Nicholas Biddle, Owen Biddle, Benjamin Rush, James Madison, Michael Hillegas, John Marshall, and John Andrews. The society also recruited members from other countries, including Alexander von Humboldt, the Marquis de Lafayette, Baron von Steuben, Tadeusz Kościuszko, and Princess Dashkova.\n\nBy 1746 the society had lapsed into inactivity. In 1767, however, it was revived, and on January 2, 1769, it united with the American Society for Promoting Useful Knowledge under the name American Philosophical Society Held at Philadelphia for Promoting Useful Knowledge. Benjamin Franklin was elected the first president. During this time, the society maintained a standing Committee on American Improvements; one of its investigations was to study the prospects of a canal to connect the Chesapeake Bay and the Delaware River. The canal, which had been proposed by Thomas Gilpin, Sr., would not become reality until the 1820s.\n\nAfter the American Revolution, the society looked for leadership to Francis Hopkinson, one of the signatories of the Declaration of Independence. Under his influence, the society received land from the government of Pennsylvania, along with a plot of land in Philadelphia where Philosophical Hall now stands.\n\nIllustrious names have continually been added to the membership roster, reflecting the society's scope. Charles Darwin, Robert Frost, Louis Pasteur, Elizabeth Cabot Agassiz, John James Audubon, Linus Pauling, Margaret Mead, Maria Mitchell, and Thomas Edison became members of the society. The society continues to attract names of high renown today, with a current membership list (as of the April 2005 elections) of 920 members, including 772 resident members (citizens or residents of the United States) and 148 foreign members representing more than two dozen countries.\n\nMany members of the Society of the Cincinnati were among the APS's first board members and contributors; today the APS and SOC still maintain an informal, collegial relationship.\n\nIn 1786, the society established the Magellanic Premium, a prize for achievement in \"navigation, astronomy, or natural philosophy,\" the oldest scientific prize awarded by an American institution, which it still awards. Other awards include the Barzun Prize for cultural history, Judson Daland Prize for Outstanding Achievement in Clinical Investigation, the Benjamin Franklin Medal, the Lashley Award for neurobiology, the Lewis Award, and the Thomas Jefferson Medal for distinguished achievement in the arts, humanities, or social sciences.\n\nThe APS has published the \"Transactions of the American Philosophical Society\" since 1771. Currently five issues appear each year. The \"Proceedings\" have appeared since 1838: they publish the papers delivered at the biannual meetings of the society. The society has also published the collected papers of Benjamin Franklin, Joseph Henry, William Penn, and Meriwether Lewis and William Clark. Jane Aitken bound some 400 volumes for the society.\n\nPhilosophical Hall, located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at 104 South Fifth Street, between Chestnut and Walnut Streets, immediately south of Old City Hall, was built in 1785–89 to house the society and was designed by Samuel Vaughan in the Federal style. A third floor was added in 1890, to accommodate the expanding library, but was removed in 1948–50 when the building was restored to its original appearance for the creation of Independence National Historical Park. In 2001, it was opened to the public as The American Philosophical Society Museum, hosting revolving, thematic exhibitions that explore the intersections of history, art, and science. The museum features works of art, scientific instruments, original manuscripts, rare books, natural history specimens, and curiosities of all kinds from the APS's own collections, along with objects on loan from other institutions.\n\nIn 1789–90, the Library Company of Philadelphia (LCP) built its headquarters directly across 5th Street from APS. LCP sold its building in 1884, which was demolished for the expansion of the Drexel & Company Building in 1887. This building itself was demolished in the mid-1950s, during the creation of Independence National Historical Park.\n\nAPS built a library on the site in 1958, and recreated the facade of the old LCP building.\n\nAPS restored the former Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank building at 425–29 Chestnut Street, which was built in 1854–5 to the design of John M. Gries in the Italianate style, to serve as a lecture hall. It is the site of meetings and most major events hosted or produced by the society.\n\nConstance C. and Edgar P. Richardson Hall at 431 Chestnut Street, immediately west of Benjamin Franklin Hall, is the former Pennsylvania Company for Insurances on Lives and Granting Annuities Building, which was built in 1871–73 and was designed by Addison Hutton. It now contains offices and the Consortium for History of Science, Technology and Medicine.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "25567998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25567998", "title": "Annemarie Gethmann-Siefert", "text": "Annemarie Gethmann-Siefert\n\nAnnemarie Gethmann-Siefert (born 1945) is a professor of philosophy at the University of Hagen, Germany.\n\nGethmann-Siefert was born in 1945, studied philosophy, art history and theology in Münster, Bonn, Innsbruck and Bochum. She earned her PhD in philosophy 1973 from the Ruhr University Bochum writing her dissertation about Heidegger and her habilitation 1982 about Hegel's Aesthetics. She taught since 1991 at the Fernuniversität Hagen.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39766716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39766716", "title": "Anti-war movement", "text": "Anti-war movement\n\nAn anti-war movement (also \"antiwar\") is a social movement, usually in opposition to a particular nation's decision to start or carry on an armed conflict, unconditional of a maybe-existing just cause. The term can also refer to pacifism, which is the opposition to all use of military force during conflicts. Many activists distinguish between anti-war movements and peace movements. Anti-war activists work through protest and other grassroots means to attempt to pressure a government (or governments) to put an end to a particular war or conflict.\nSubstantial opposition to British war intervention in America led the British House of Commons on 27 February 1782 to vote against further war in America, paving the way for the Second Rockingham ministry and the Peace of Paris.\n\nSubstantial anti-war sentiment developed in the United States during the period roughly falling between the end of the War of 1812 and the commencement of the Civil War, or what is called the antebellum era (A similar movement developed in England during the same period). The movement reflected both strict pacifist and more moderate non-interventionist positions. Many prominent intellectuals of the time, including Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau (\"see\" \"Civil Disobedience\") and William Ellery Channing contributed literary works against war. Other names associated with the movement include William Ladd, Noah Worcester, Thomas Cogswell Upham and Asa Mahan. Many peace societies were formed throughout the United States, the most prominent of which being the American Peace Society. Numerous periodicals (e.g., The Advocate of Peace) and books were also produced. The \"Book of Peace\", an anthology produced by the American Peace Society in 1845, must surely rank as one of the most remarkable works of anti-war literature ever produced.\n\nA recurring theme in this movement was the call for the establishment of an international court which would adjudicate disputes between nations. Another distinct feature of antebellum anti-war literature was the emphasis on how war contributed to a moral decline and brutalization of society in general.\n\nA key event in the early history of the modern anti-war stance in literature and society was the American Civil War, where it culminated in the candidacy of George McClellan for President of the United States as a \"Peace Democrat\" against incumbent President Abraham Lincoln. The outlines of the anti-war stance are seen: the argument that the costs of maintaining the present conflict are not worth the gains which can be made, the appeal to end the horrors of war, and the argument that war is being waged for the profit of particular interests. During the war, the New York Draft Riots were started as violent protests against Abraham Lincoln's \"Enrollment Act of Conscription\" plan to draft men to fight in the war. The outrage over conscription was augmented by the ability to \"buy\" your way out; the amount of which could only be afforded by the wealthy. After the war, \"The Red Badge of Courage\" described the chaos and sense of death which resulted from the changing style of combat: away from the set engagement, and towards two armies engaging in continuous battle over a wide area.\n\nWilliam Thomas Stead formed an organization against the Second Boer War: the Stop the War Committee.\n\nIn Britain, in 1914, the Public Schools Officers' Training Corps annual camp was held at Tidworth Pennings, near Salisbury Plain. Head of the British Army Lord Kitchener was to review the cadets, but the immenence of the war prevented him. General Horace Smith-Dorrien was sent instead. He surprised the two-or-three thousand cadets by declaring (in the words of Donald Christopher Smith, a Bermudian cadet who was present) \"that war should be avoided at almost any cost, that war would solve nothing, that the whole of Europe and more besides would be reduced to ruin, and that the loss of life would be so large that whole populations would be decimated. In our ignorance I, and many of us, felt almost ashamed of a British General who uttered such depressing and unpatriotic sentiments, but during the next four years, those of us who survived the holocaust-probably not more than one-quarter of us – learned how right the General's prognosis was and how courageous he had been to utter it.\" Having voiced these sentiments did not hinder Smith-Dorrien's career, or prevent him from carrying out his duty in the First World War to the best of his abilities.\n\nWith the increasing mechanization of war, opposition to its horrors grew, particularly in the wake of the First World War. European avant-garde cultural movements such as Dada were explicitly anti-war.\n\nThe Espionage Act of 1917 and the Sedition Act of 1918 gave the American authorities the right to close newspapers and jailed individuals for having anti-war views.\n\nOn June 16, 1918, Eugene V. Debs made an anti-war speech and was arrested under the Espionage Act of 1917. He was convicted, sentenced to serve ten years in prison, but President Warren G. Harding commuted his sentence on December 25, 1921.\n\nIn 1924 Ernst Friedrich published \"Krieg dem Krieg!\" (\"War Against War!\"): an album of photographs drawn from German military and medical archives from the first world war. In \"Regarding the pain of others\" Sontag describes the book as 'photography as shock therapy' that was designed to 'horrify and demoralize'.\n\nIt was in the 1930s that the Western anti-war movement took shape, to which the political and organizational roots of most of the existing movement can be traced. Characteristics of the anti-war movement included opposition to the corporate interests perceived as benefiting from war, to the status quo which was trading the lives of the young for the comforts of those who are older, the concept that those who were drafted were from poor families and would be fighting a war in place of privileged individuals who were able to avoid the draft and military service, and to the lack of input in decision making that those who would die in the conflict would have in deciding to engage in it.\n\nIn 1933, the Oxford Union resolved in its Oxford Pledge, \"That this House will in no circumstances fight for its King and Country.\"\n\nMany war veterans, including US General Smedley Butler, spoke out against wars and war profiteering on their return to civilian life.\n\nVeterans were still extremely cynical about the motivations for entering World War I, but many were willing to fight later in the Spanish Civil War, indicating that pacifism was not always the motivation. These trends were depicted in novels such as \"All Quiet on the Western Front\", \"For Whom the Bell Tolls\" and \"Johnny Got His Gun\".\n\nOpposition to World War II was most vocal during its early period, and stronger still before it started while appeasement and isolationism were considered viable diplomatic options. Communist-led organizations, including veterans of the Spanish Civil War, opposed the war during the period of the Hitler-Stalin pact but then turned into hawks after Germany invaded the Soviet Union.\n\nThe war seemed, for a time, to set anti-war movements at a distinct social disadvantage; very few, mostly ardent pacifists, continued to argue against the war and its results at the time. However, the Cold War followed with the post-war realignment, and the opposition resumed. The grim realities of modern combat, and the nature of mechanized society ensured that the anti-war viewpoint found presentation in \"Catch-22\", \"Slaughterhouse-Five\" and \"The Tin Drum\". This sentiment grew in strength as the Cold War seemed to present the situation of an unending series of conflicts, which were fought at terrible cost to the younger generations.\n\nOrganized opposition to U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War began slowly and in small numbers in 1964 on various college campuses in the United States and quickly as the war grew deadlier. In 1967 a coalition of antiwar activists formed the National Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam which organized several large anti-war demonstrations between the late-1960s and 1972. Counter-cultural songs, organizations, plays and other literary works encouraged a spirit of nonconformism, peace, and anti-establishmentarianism. This anti-war sentiment developed during a time of unprecedented student activism and right on the heels of the Civil Rights Movement, and was reinforced in numbers by the demographically significant baby boomers. It quickly grew to include a wide and varied cross-section of Americans from all walks of life. The anti-Vietnam war movement is often considered to have been a major factor affecting America's involvement in the war itself. Many Vietnam veterans, including the former Secretary of State and former U.S. Senator John Kerry and disabled veteran Ron Kovic, spoke out against the Vietnam War on their return to the United States.\n\nOpposition to the South African Border War spread to a general resistance to the apartheid military. Organizations such as the End Conscription Campaign and Committee on South African War Resisters, were set up. Many opposed the war at this time.\n\nThere was initially little opposition to the 2001 Afghanistan War in the United States and the United Kingdom, which was seen as a response to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and was supported by a majority of the American public. Most vocal opposition came from pacifist groups and groups promoting a leftist political agenda; in the United States, the group A.N.S.W.E.R. was one of the most visible organizers of anti-war protests, although that group faced considerable controversy over allegations it was a front for the extremist Stalinist Workers World Party. Over time, opposition to the war in Afghanistan has grown more widespread, partly as a result of weariness with the length of the conflict, and partly as a result of a conflating of the conflict with the unpopular war in Iraq.\n\nThe anti-war position gained renewed support and attention in the buildup to the 2003 invasion of Iraq by the U.S. and its allies. Millions of people staged mass protests across the world in the immediate prelude to the invasion, and demonstrations and other forms of anti-war activism have continued throughout the occupation. The primary opposition within the U.S. to the continued occupation of Iraq has come from the grassroots. Opposition to the conflict, how it had been fought, and complications during the aftermath period divided public sentiment in the U.S., resulting in majority public opinion turning against the war for the first time in the spring of 2004, a turn which has held since. Many American writers against the war, like Naomi Wolf, were labeled conspiratorial due to their opposition, with others choosing to post their anti-war writings anonymously, such as the anonymous conspiracy author Sorcha Faal. The financial website Zero Hedge offered its anti-war writers the protection of the anonymous pseudonym Tyler Durden for those exposing war profiteering. The American country music band Dixie Chicks opposition to the war caused many radio stations to stop playing their records, but who were supported in their anti-war stance by the equally anti-war country music legend Merle Haggard, who in the summer of 2003 released a song critical of US media coverage of the Iraq War. Anti-war groups protested during both the Democratic National Convention and 2008 Republican National Convention protests held in St. Paul, Minnesota in September 2008.\n\nOrganised opposition to a possible future military attack against Iran by the United States is known to have started during 2005–2006. Beginning in early 2005, journalists, activists and academics such as Seymour Hersh, Scott Ritter, Joseph Cirincione and Jorge E. Hirsch began publishing claims that United States' concerns over the alleged threat posed by the possibility that Iran may have a nuclear weapons program might lead the US government to take military action against that country in the future. These reports, and the concurrent escalation of tensions between Iran and some Western governments, prompted the formation of grassroots organisations, including Campaign Against Sanctions and Military Intervention in Iran in the US and the United Kingdom, to advocate against potential military strikes on Iran. Additionally, several individuals, grassroots organisations and international governmental organisations, including the Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, a former United Nations weapons inspector in Iraq, Scott Ritter, Nobel Prize winners including Shirin Ebadi, Mairead Corrigan-Maguire and Betty Williams, Harold Pinter and Jody Williams, Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, Code Pink, the Non-Aligned Movement of 118 states, and the Arab League, have publicly stated their opposition to a would-be attack on Iran.\n\nAnti-war/Putin demonstrations took place in Moscow \"opposing the War in Donbass\", i.e., in the Eastern Ukraine.\n\nEnglish poet Robert Southey's 1796 poem After Blenheim is an early modern example of anti-war literature — it was written generations after the Battle of Blenheim, but at a time when England was again at war with France.\n\nWorld War I produced a generation of poets and writers influenced by their experiences in the war. The work of poets including Wilfred Owen and Siegfried Sassoon exposed the contrast between the realities of life in the trenches and how the war was seen by the British public at the time, as well as the earlier patriotic verse penned by Rupert Brooke. German writer Erich Maria Remarque penned All Quiet on the Western Front, which, having been adapted for several mediums, has become of the most often cited pieces of anti-war media.\n\nPablo Picasso's 1937 painting \"Guernica\", on the other hand, used abstraction rather than realism to generate an emotional response to the loss of life from the fascist bombing of Guernica during the Spanish Civil War. American author Kurt Vonnegut used science fiction themes in his 1969 novel Slaughterhouse-Five, depicting the bombing of Dresden in World War II (which Vonnegut witnessed).\n\nThe second half of the 20th century also witnessed a strong anti-war presence in other art forms, including anti-war music such as \"Eve of Destruction\" and One Tin Soldier and films such as \"M*A*S*H\" and \"Die Brücke\", opposing the Cold War in general, or specific conflicts such as the Vietnam War. The current American war in Iraq has also generated significant artistic anti-war works, including filmmaker Michael Moore's \"Fahrenheit 9/11\", which holds the box-office record for documentary films, and Canadian musician Neil Young's 2006 album \"Living with War\".\n\nVarious people have discussed the philosophical question of whether war is inevitable, and how much it can be avoided, as well as how this can be achieved i.e. what are the necessities of peace. Various people have discussed it from an intellectual and philosophical point of view. Various intellectuals not only have discussed in public but have participated or led anti-war campaigns despite it is different to their main areas of expertise. They went out of their professional comfort zone to warn against or fight against wars.\n\n\nHere is a list of people who outside this field have authority and used their influence and intellectual rigor favour of in the cause of enlightening against the warmongers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54547239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54547239", "title": "Antonio Persio", "text": "Antonio Persio\n\nAntonio Persio (Matera 17 May 1542 - Rome 11 February 1612) was an Italian philosopher of the Platonic school who opposed the Aristotelianism which predominated in the universities of his time. He was a member of the Accademia dei Lincei and an associate of Galileo Galilei. \n\nAntonio Persio was the oldest of five sons of the sculptor Altobello Persio. As a child he suffered from a serious illness which caused a temporary paralysis of all his limbs. His maternal uncle the humanist Leonardo Goffredo was in charge of the boys' education in Matera, and with the exception of the second son Giovanni Battista, all were later prominent in their chosen field - Antonio in philosophy, Guilio as a sculptor, Domizio in holy orders and in painting, and Ascanio in the humanities and philology. \n\nAfter taking minor orders, Antonio moved to Naples in 1560 where he became a presbyter and was appointed as tutor to Lelio and Pietro Orsini, younger brothers of Ferdinando Orsini, Duke of Gravina and Count of Matera. He met Bernardino Telesio whose follower he became, and wrote a number of works defending and expounding on the views of his master. After Telesio's death he arranged for the publication of a number of his writings under the title \"Varii de rebus naturalibus libelli\".\n\nAt the end of 1570, after a short stay in Rome, he moved to Perugia, as the tutor of the Orsini brothers, who wanted to study civil and canon law. There he developed links with the Caetani brothers; Camillo Caetani introduced him to Paolo Manuzio and Manuzio's son Aldo. In 1572 he moved to the Republic of Venice and entered the service of the patrician Giorgio Correr as tutor to his son Andrea. At the same time he published an important commentary on the Pandects in 1575. In 1576 became a parish priest in Padua, where he published \"Trattato dell'ingegno dell'huomo\", in which he developed Telesio's theories about the \"spiritus\", inspiration, movement, life and intelligence.\n\nIn 1590 he moved to Rome, where he met Tommaso Campanella and Galileo Galilei. Here he published a medical tract, \"Del bever caldo\", in which he pursued a number of ideas discussed in his previous work about the spirit, with advice on how to preserve it. \n\nPersio died in Rome on 22 January 1612 in the Palazzo Cesi-Armellini and was buried in the church of Sant'Onofrio. He was admitted posthumously to the Accademia dei Lincei.\n\n"}
{"id": "40016783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40016783", "title": "Bachelor of Naturopathy and Yoga", "text": "Bachelor of Naturopathy and Yoga\n\nThe Bachelor of Naturopathy and Yogic Science (BNYS) is a Medical Degree Graduation Course Programme in India in the field of Integrative Medicine, which covers the study of both Naturopathy Medicine and Modern Medicine as Integrative Medicine and Therapeutic Yoga or Yoga Medicine MD (Naturopathy Medicine ), MD (Yoga Medicine ) and MD (Accu Medicine ) and pg Diploma like DGO., DCH., DEM., DPM., for BNYS Medical Graduates as Post Graduation Course available in many Medical Colleges and Health Science / Medical Universities in both private as well as government sectors as pg Diploma duration is two years and pg degree duration is 3 years. \nThe curriculum is taught in English with additional language to it as Sanskrit too by several Medical Universities. The degree is of four year and six month +one year CRRI AS 365 days full time Internship CRRI DURATION as including 1 year Clinical Internship, after passing 12th Science are eligible to pursue admission to this medical graduate course. The person having a BNYS., Medical Degree can practice medicine as General Practitioner (GP) anywhere in India or abroad under different State Medical Councils as per Indian constitutional law and medical ACT and Bill rules. BNYS Medical Graduates are equivalent to MBBS medical graduate as a General Physician. Naturopathy Medical College & Academic Hospital available in almost all states in India and in many countries all over the world today.\nSome of the Indian Universities names are here written below, \n\nCurrent governing bodies are,\nNational Institute of Naturopathy Medicine,Pune\nFuture changes ...soon\nCentral council of Research in Yoga Medical Science,AYUSH Health Ministry,Government of India\nBachelor of Yoga Medicial Science.BYMS., MD.,(Clinical Yoga)\nCentral Council of Research in Naturopathy Medicine,AYUSH Health Ministry,Government of India\nBachelor of Naturopathy & Minor Surgery.BNMS.,Md.,(Naturopathy Medicine)\n\nA BNYS doctor can work in following domains after completion of the degree.\n\n"}
{"id": "604605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604605", "title": "Being in itself", "text": "Being in itself\n\nBeing-in-itself is the self-contained and fully realized Being of objects. It is a term used in early 20th century continental philosophy, especially in the works of Martin Heidegger, Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, and the existentialists.\n\nIn the philosophy of Martin Heidegger, Being-in-itself is contrasted with the being of persons, which he terms Dasein. \"Dasein means: care of the Being of beings as such that is ecstatically disclosed in care, not only of human Being...Dasein is \"itself\" by virtue of its essential \"relation to\" Being in general.\" Heidegger recognized the dangers inherent to talking about Being in general and particular beings, and thus devoted space in \"Being and Time\" and the \"Introduction to Metaphysics\" to an explication of the differences; often noted by translators who distinguish Being (Sein), from \"a\" being (das Seiende). His attention to the complication is helpful for those who are looking for detailed explanation, but rarely clears the air of confusions.\n\nDasein is Being that is aware of, and interested in, its own Being. Dasein is, by its nature, invested in social interaction and society. This is because in Heidegger's metaphysical system, one of the most fundamental ways to understand Being is through relationships. All things stand in a relation to all other things — and by virtue of his stress on Dasein's ontological distinction, things may also stand in relation to Dasein. The argument for this claim draws heavily on Hegel's great work, the \"Phenomenology of Spirit\". Essentially, Being in itself is one of Heidegger's main concerns throughout his authorship. Despite Heidegger's interest in it, he returns — more often than not indirectly — to the subject by interrogating other concepts that simply \"invoke\" Being without explicitly acknowledging it.\n\nIn other words, whereas Heidegger calls the being of persons 'Dasein', he determines 'Being in itself' to be at the same time the most vague and general concept possible to contemplate, but also the topic of greatest interest to him as a philosopher.\n\nIn Sartrean existentialism, being-in-itself (\"être-en-soi\") is also contrasted with the being of persons, which he describes as a combination of, or vacillation or tension between, being-for-itself (\"être-pour-soi\") and being-for-others (\"I'être-pour-autrui\"). \n\nBeing-in-itself refers to objects in the external world — a mode of existence that simply is. It is not conscious so it is neither active nor passive and harbors no potentiality for transcendence. This mode of being is relevant to inanimate objects, but not to humans, who Sartre says must always make a choice.\n\nOne of the problems of human existence for Sartre is the desire to attain being-in-itself, which he describes as the desire to be God — this is a longing for full control over one's destiny and for absolute identity, only attainable by achieving full control over the destiny of all existence. The desire to be God is one of the ways people fall into bad faith. Sartre's famous depiction of a man in a café who has applied himself to a portrayal of his role as a waiter illustrates this. The waiter thinks of himself as being a waiter (as in being-in-itself), which Sartre says is impossible since he cannot be a waiter in the sense that an inkwell is an inkwell. He is primarily a man (being-for-itself), just one who happens to be functioning as a waiter – with no fixed nature or essence, who is constantly recreating himself. He is guilty of focusing on himself as being-in-itself and not being-for-itself. Sartre would say that as a human, a being-for-itself by nature, the waiter is \"a being that is not what it is and it is what it is not.\" Therefore, the waiter who acts as if he is at his very core a waiter \"is not what [he] is\"- which is to say, he is not solely a waiter- and \"is what [he] is not\"- meaning that he is many things other than a waiter. In simply playing the part of a waiter, the man in this example is reducing himself to a \"being-in-itself\" and is therefore in bad faith.\n\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "1322877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1322877", "title": "Chronospecies", "text": "Chronospecies\n\nA chronospecies is a species derived from a sequential development pattern which involves continual and uniform changes from an extinct ancestral form on an evolutionary scale. This sequence of alterations eventually produces a population which is physically, morphologically, and/or genetically distinct from the original ancestors. Throughout this change, there is only one species in the lineage at any point in time, as opposed to cases where divergent evolution produces contemporary species with a common ancestor. The related term paleospecies (or palaeospecies) indicates an extinct species only identified with fossil material. This identification relies on distinct similarities between the earlier fossil specimens and some proposed descendant, although the exact relationship to the later species is not always defined. In particular, the range of variation within all the early fossil specimens does not exceed the observed range which exists in the later species.\n\nA paleosubspecies (or palaeosubspecies) identifies an extinct subspecies which evolved into the currently existing form. This connection with relatively recent variations, usually from the Late Pleistocene, often relies on the additional information available in subfossil material. Most of the current species have changed in size adapting to the climatic changes during the last ice age (\"see\" Bergmann's Rule).\n\nThe further identification of fossil specimens as part of a \"chronospecies\" relies on additional similarities which more strongly indicate a specific relationship with a known species. For example, relatively recent specimens – hundreds of thousands to a few million years old – with consistent variations (e.g. always smaller but with the same proportions) as a living species might represent the final step in a chronospecies. This possible identification of the immediate ancestor of the living taxon may also rely on stratigraphic information to establish the age of the specimens.\n\nThe concept of chronospecies is related to the phyletic gradualism model of evolution, and also relies on an extensive fossil record, since morphological changes accumulate over time and two very different organisms could be connected by a series of intermediaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22736576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22736576", "title": "Context change potential", "text": "Context change potential\n\nIn formal semantics, context change potential (CCP) is the way new information reshapes existing understanding. It is a real feature of natural language observed, modeled and predicted by researchers. As speakers use natural language, they offer and interpret new contributions in the context of what has already passed in their discourse.\n\nIn the example dialogue fragments, although the same phrase \"so far\" is offered in both replies, the prior contexts establish different analyses of the meanings of the phrase. In the first example, the reply (1b) modifies the prior context (1a) by providing an explanation: B did not make the meeting because it was \"too far to travel\". In the second example, the reply (2b) also modifies the prior context (2a): B agrees with A that the day has been lovely \"up to this point\", but appears to implicate concern about the future. In either case, after B has contributed a reply, there is now a new, different context against which future contributions to the dialogue must be analysed to establish their meaning.\n\nAs a discourse progresses, the \"picture\" provided by the context is \"filled in\". Sometimes parts of the picture are \"erased\" then \"redrawn\" in alternative ways. The insight of CCP analysis of discourse is that language use doesn't simply function to denote reference to the objective world directly, significantly it also functions by constructing and modifying a context shared by discourse participants.\n\nCCP is the foundation of dynamic semantics, giving rise to the slogan \"meaning is context change potential\". Earlier work in semantics attempted to show how the meaning of many sentences could be directly represented by logical models of the objective world. Finding a way of representing the meaning of difficult sentences led to seeing the need for accounting for CCP. Discourse Representation Theory (DRT) did this by viewing successive contributions to discourse as \"dynamically\" modifying a model of the world—the changing context.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10031966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10031966", "title": "Dexippus (philosopher)", "text": "Dexippus (philosopher)\n\nDexippus (; fl. 350) was a Greek philosopher, a pupil of the Neoplatonist Iamblichus, belonging to the middle of the 4th century AD. He wrote commentaries on Plato and Aristotle of which one, an explanation and defense of the Aristotelian Categories, is partially extant. In this work Dexippus explains to one Seleucus the Aristotelian Categories, and endeavours at the same time to refute the objections of Plotinus. He also advocated the harmony of the philosophies of Plato and Aristotle.\n\nA Latin edition edited by Félicien was published under the title \"Quœstionum in Categorias Libri Tres\" in 1549. The Greek text was published by Leonhard von Spengel in 1859. An English translation by John M. Dillon was published in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "36100133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36100133", "title": "Don Collins Reed", "text": "Don Collins Reed\n\nDon Collins Reed (born in Fayetteville, Arkansas) is an emeritus professor of ethics and history of philosophy at Wittenberg University.\n\nReed's early research has focused on the work of the ethicist Lawrence Kohlberg. In \"\", published in 1998, Reed outlined the extension of principles of ethical community, developed by Kohlberg and Carol Gilligan, to that of deliberative democracy. Between 2003 and 2009, Reed observed and volunteered in public school and preschool classrooms in Springfield, Ohio, and served on the Board of Education of Springfield City Schools. His current research involves developing an integrated, multi-level model of human moral functioning based on recent scientific research on morality.\n"}
{"id": "1250251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1250251", "title": "Doxography", "text": "Doxography\n\nDoxography ( - \"an opinion\", \"a point of view\" + - \"to write\", \"to describe\") is a term used especially for the works of classical historians, describing the points of view of past philosophers and scientists. The term was coined by the German classical scholar Hermann Alexander Diels.\n\nA great many philosophical works have been lost; our limited knowledge of such lost works comes chiefly through the doxographical works of later philosophers, commentators, and biographers. Philosophers such as Plato and Aristotle also act as doxographers, as their comments on the ideas of their predecessors indirectly tell us what their predecessors' beliefs were. Plato's \"Defense of Socrates\", for example, tells us much of what we know about the natural philosophy of Anaxagoras.\n\nIslamic doxography is an aggregate of theosophical works (like \"Kitab al-Maqalat\" by Abu Mansur Al Maturidi) concerning the aberrations in Islamic sects and streams.\n\n"}
{"id": "3948207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3948207", "title": "Duty of confidentiality", "text": "Duty of confidentiality\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, the duty of confidentiality obliges solicitors (or attorneys) to respect the confidentiality of their clients' affairs. Information that solicitors obtain about their clients' affairs may be confidential, and must not be used for the benefit of persons not authorized by the client. Confidentiality is a prerequisite for legal professional privilege to hold.\n\nThe lawyer-client relationship has historically been characterised as one of confidence. This duty also constitutes part of the broader foundation for lawyer's fiduciary duties to their clients.\n\nThe maintenance of full and frank disclosure between lawyers and their clients is the main justification for the duty of confidentiality. The basis for this rationale is utilitarianism, in that it works to promote the work of solicitors, who are officers of the court. It allows clients to freely discuss intimate details without fear that such information could be subsequently disclosed to the general public. In turn, public confidence in lawyers and the legal system is maintained and promoted. Further, the duty of confidentiality is a constant reminder to lawyers of the loyalty they owe to their clients.\n\nAnother rationale is to protect the human dignity of the client.\n\nIn criminal cases, confidentiality is also justified to prevent the use of tricked confessions or admissions.\n\nThe duty is sourced from a combination of contract law and equity arising from the distinctive relationship between lawyer and client. The solicitor or attorney is an agent of the client under the law of agency. In contract, the duty arises from terms contained in the retainer agreement. Complementarily, equity prohibits unauthorised use or disclosure of confidential information. In most jurisdictions, the duty is codified in the terms of legal professional rules, such as the Model Code of Professional Responsibility.\n\nAlthough the duty of confidentiality and fiduciary duties have common origins, they cannot be equated as not all fiduciary duties attract duties of confidentiality and vice versa.\n\nAs the lawyer-client duty of confidentiality is primarily sourced in contract law, the wording of implied terms in the retainer agreement determines its scope of operation. Despite its importance, there have been few judicial attempts to resolve the extent of the implied term.\n\nIn equity, protection is attached to information that is capable of meeting the test of confidentiality - whether the information was already public knowledge and whether its communication was for a \"limited purpose\". While this test may indicate a more limited scope of confidentiality under equity, by requiring information to be deemed confidential before falling under the scope, on another level equity may secure a broader temporal protection for confidential information. The duty under contract expires on termination of the legal retainer, whereas the duty under equity remains intact until the information is no longer confidential, which may occur long after the expiration of the contractual retainer.\n\nLegal professional rules have tended to adopt the broad view of the scope of duty recognised in contract law. The obligation to retain information in confidence, according to the professional rules in Australian jurisdictions is premised on its connection with the legal retainer rather than the source of the information. Hence, the professional rules seem to imply that information gained in connection with the legal retainer is deemed confidential. However, though the rules emphasise the importance of the duty of confidentiality, this is not a hard rule. Not all information connected with the retainer meets the legal test of confidentiality. The duty of confidence applies to \"any information, which is confidential to a client and acquired by [a] practitioner or [a] practitioner's firm during the client's engagement.\" For barristers, it is \"confidential information obtained by [a] barrister concerning any person.\"\n\nThough the duty of confidentiality shares a common origin, goals, and similarities with legal professional privilege, they are distinct in at least three ways. Firstly, privilege is not dependent on a contractual, equitable or professional duty to clients. Rather, it is based upon arguments of public policy. Secondly, communications protected by confidentiality are more numerous than those protected by privilege. Privileged communications are a subset of confidential communication. Nonetheless, loss of privilege does not necessarily automatically destroy the duty to confidentiality if it has arisen independently of the privilege. Finally, privileged information is protected from compulsory disclosure, unless abrogated by statute or waived. Non-privileged confidential information on the other hand must be disclosed to judicial, statutory, or other legal compulsion. In particular, the public interest in discovering the truth trumps private duties to respect confidence.\n\nThough the duty to confidentiality is often expressed in absolute terms in professional rules, there are circumstances where the duty can be breached. The breach of the duty in certain contexts is justified through the balancing of the often competing interests of the client and proper administration of justice\n\nAs lawyer-client confidentiality exists for the benefit of the client, the confidence is the client's to waive or modify. Hence, the lawyer can reveal confidential information to third parties where the client allows such an action. However, consent to allow the disclosure of confidential information does not entitle the lawyer to disclose or use the information for other purposes than those specified by the client.\n\nThe authorization does not necessarily have to be explicit. It can be inferred from the terms or nature of the retainer agreement. The idea that all information imparted within a retainer is confidential is impracticable. Often, much of that information is communicated so that it can be disclosed to dispose of a matter, claim, or legal issue. Hence, where information is incidental to the conduct of a retainer, client authorisation can be generally taken as given. Nonetheless, where there is uncertainty, express authority should be sought from the client.\n\nWhere expressly provided for in statute, lawyers must comply with any parliamentary requirement necessitating breach of the duty to confidentiality. Lord Denning in \"Parry-Jones v Law Society\" said at 6-7:\n\nStatutory abrogation of the duty is limited in scope and purpose however. Requirements are never blanket decrees for the revelation of confidential information. Rather they are based on upholding the public interest, where such interests override client interests in maintaining confidentiality.\n\nLawyers may disclose confidential information relating to the retainer where they are reasonably seeking to collect payment for services rendered. This is justified on policy grounds. If lawyers were unable to disclose such information, many would undertake legal work only where payment is made in advance. This would arguably adversely affect the public's access to justice.\n\nLawyers may also breach the duty where they are defending themselves against disciplinary or legal proceedings. A client who initiates proceedings against a lawyer effectively waives rights to confidentiality. This is justified on grounds of procedural fairness - a lawyer unable to reveal information relating to the retainer would be unable to defend themselves against such actions.\n\nClearly, information that is not confidential does not fall under the duty of confidentiality. Disclosure of information that is already in the public domain does not breach the duty. Further, information that was not in the public knowledge at the time of the retainer agreement, is not subject to the duty if it subsequently enters the public domain. The purpose served by maintaining the confidence - the protection of the client - is arguably extinguished.\n\nNonetheless, the lawyer still owes a duty of loyalty, and clients may feel betrayed if such information is disclosed, even if it becomes public knowledge. Though there are no legal ramifications for disclosure, discretion on part of the lawyer may be in the long term interests of maintaining the propriety of the legal profession.\n\nAnother case is for the probate of a last will and testament. Previously confidential communications between the lawyer and testator are no longer secret for the purpose of proving the Will is the intent of the now deceased decedent. In many instances, the will, codicil, or other parts of the estate plan require explanation or interpretation through other proof (extrinsic evidence), such as the attorney's file notes or correspondence from the client.\n\nIn certain cases, the client may desire or consent to revelation of personal or family secrets only after his or her death; for example, the Will may leave a legacy to a paramour or a natural child.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34537243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34537243", "title": "Edward G. Jefferson", "text": "Edward G. Jefferson\n\nDr. Edward G. Jefferson (1921, London – February 9, 2006) was a British-born American chemical engineer, chemist, businessman, CEO and Chairman of DuPont corporation.\n\nJefferson served in the Royal Artillery during World War II and took part in the Normandy invasion in 1944. He later graduated with honors in chemistry from King's College at the University of London, where he also received a doctorate.\n\nJefferson was a member of the American Philosophical Society, a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a trustee of the Academy of Natural Sciences, and a member of the National Academy of Engineering (elected in 1986 \"for outstanding research leadership and exceptional contributions to university-industry cooperation in science and engineering, and for creative direction of one of the world’s largest industrial organizations\").\n"}
{"id": "37865505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37865505", "title": "Epistemology of the Closet", "text": "Epistemology of the Closet\n\nEpistemology of the Closet is a book published in 1990 by Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, who is considered one of the founders of queer studies. In \"Epistemology of the Closet\", Sedgwick argues that standard binary oppositions limit freedom and understanding, especially in the context of sexuality. Sedgwick argues that limiting sexuality to homosexuality or heterosexuality, in a structured binary opposition, is just too simplistic. \n\n\"Epistemology of the Closet\" attacks the question of what makes up human sexuality. The basis for the answer to this question comes from Sedgwick's understanding and examination of queer theory, which she describes for her readers.\n\nAccording to Sedgwick, the central thesis of the book is that \"virtually any aspect of modern Western culture, must be, not merely incomplete, but damaged in its central substance to the degree that it does not incorporate a critical analysis of modern homo/heterosexual definition.\"\n\nIn the book, Sedgwick analyzes a late nineteenth century historical moment in which sexual orientation became as important a definer of personal identity as gender had been for centuries. In her preface, Sedgwick examines the book both personally and historically, as she analyzes the first wave of the AIDS epidemic and its influence on the text. Through this and various other examples, Sedgwick reveals that several sexual contradictions result in modern misunderstanding. The book also largely focuses on language's impact on sexuality, and how labeled speech acts are ultimately the proof of the nature of one’s sexuality.\n\n\"Epistemology of the Closet\" focuses on other literary works that reflect the social and political ideas of queer theorists. Some of the main authors that Sedgwick pulls from are Michel Foucault, Herman Melville, Oscar Wilde, Friedrich Nietzsche, and Marcel Proust. Sedgwick uses the writings of these authors to point out examples in other pieces of famous literary text that help propel her argument about the binary behind the homosexual identity and how language serves to define that binary.\n\nThe chapter dedicated to Marcel Proust, which is titled “Proust and the Spectacle of the Closet,” is the\nend of \"Epistemology of the Closet\". In this chapter, Sedgwick evokes the figure\nof the woman who cannot know: “the omnipotent, unknowing\nmother” to whom Proust’s novel is addressed. This heterosexual woman is troubled by her inability to determine\nwhether or not the men she is having sex with are bisexuals, and is therefore fearful that she has been infected with AIDS (248).\nSedgwick closes out her book with this example of the unknowing woman as a way to stress the difference between the male/female sexual identity that has been loosely defined by society (especially in the case of males).\n\nMore than any other book, \"Epistemology of the Closet\" has probably had the greatest influence on geographical research on sexualities. The concept of the closet and its epistemic effects have been examined by scholars from a range of disciplines (including Geography) and used to understand the functioning of sexual relations in a wide range of geographic settings.\n\n\"Epistemology of the Closet\" has also had a tremendous impact in the gay community as it is known for being a very \"important book\", and \"one of the key texts of queer theory, and, as such, is a challenging book to read.\"\n\nThis book addresses the idea that there are two views that guide sexual identity and desire: the minoritizing view and the universalizing view.\n\n\nThe language usage and labeling itself is a major theme and common occurrence in \"Epistemology of the Closet\". The book proposes the argument that \"homosexuality\" is a loaded term. According to Sedgwick, this term \"has always seemed to have at least some male bias –- whether because of the pun on Latin homo = man latent in its etymological macaronic, or simply because of the greater attention to men in the discourse surrounding it.\" (17)\n\nLike the term \"homosexuality\", the term \"gay\" produces mixed results. As explained in the book, some women, according to Sedgwick, call themselves \"lesbians\" yet they do not identify at all with the term \"gay\". However, other women identify themselves as \"gay women\", which disassociates themselves from the term \"lesbian\". This produces an obvious language conflict that Sedgwick points to as just another problem in the long line of problems related to the modern binary opposition that is homo/heterosexual.\n\n (1985)\n\nMany of the ideas in \"Between Men\" are further flushed out in \"Epistemology of the Closet\". Sedgwick's \"Between Men\" was intended to show \"the immanence of men’s same-sex bonds, and their prohibitive structuration, to male-female bonds in nineteenth-century English literature.\" In \"Between Men,\" Sedgwick coined the term \"homosocial\" as a male desire that \"referred to all male bonds, including, potentially, everyone from overt heterosexuals to overt homosexuals.\"[18] The term resulted from Sedgwick's belief that terms like \"gay\", \"bi\", and \"homo\" could not be appropriately distinguished from one another.\n\nLike \"Epistemology of the Closet\",\"Touching Feeling\" also focuses on ideas of queer theory. This book examines the emotions provoked by the AIDS epidemic that was widespread at the time. The book's main theme deals with the relationship between feeling, learning, and action. Sedgwick describes this book as the exploration of \"promising tools and techniques for nondualistic thought and pedagogy.\"\n\n\"Epistemology of the Closet\" has received many positive reviews. On publication, the book attracted attention from the publication magazine The Nation, which described it as \"a remarkable work of mind and spirit\", in which \"the literary analyses are excellent\".\n\nAccording to Robert Tobin, a writer for Philosophy and Literature, \"Readers who still hanker for expository prose without\ndigressions might on occasion be frustrated with this book, as will readers whose\npolitics differ from Sedgwick's. Nonetheless, it is probably precisely those readers\nwho could learn the most from \"Epistemology of the Closet\", which reestablishes\nSedgwick's position as one of the most important thinkers in American gay\nstudies.\"\n\nAn article in Publishers Weekly described Sedgwick's homosexual closet as \"the defining structure for gay oppression in this century.\" The article points out the influence behind Sedgwick's strong disagreement with those who separate gays and straights as \"distinct kinds of persons\", with no common humanity. The article later goes on to describe how \"Her close readings of Melville's \"Billy Budd\", Wilde's \"Dorian Gray\" and of Proust, Nietzsche, Henry James and Thackeray bristle with keen observations relating entrenched fears of same-sex relationships to contemporary gay-bashing and obvious displays of heterosexual or \"macho\" attitudes.\" \n\nHowever, not all reviews were positive. Geographer Michael Brown has criticized Sedgwick’s ‘the closet' as a term for spatial metaphor. Brown has\nalso questioned the limits of ‘the closet’ as \"a mechanism for understanding the dynamics of queer visibilities in national contexts where the homo/hetero binary is not the primary means of understanding sexualities.\"\n"}
{"id": "5096577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5096577", "title": "FalconView", "text": "FalconView\n\nFalconView is a mapping system created by the Georgia Tech Research Institute. It was initially developed for the Windows family of operating systems; however, versions for Linux and mobile operating systems are under development. It displays various types of maps and geographically referenced overlays. Many types of maps are supported, but the primary ones of interest to most users are aeronautical charts, satellite images and elevation maps. FalconView also supports a large number of overlay types that can be displayed over any map background. The current overlay set is targeted toward military mission planning users and is oriented towards aviators and aviation support personnel.\n\nFalconView is an integral part of the Portable Flight Planning Software (PFPS). This software suite includes FalconView, Combat Flight Planning Software (CFPS), Combat Weapon Delivery Software (CWDS), Combat Air Drop Planning Software (CAPS) and several other software packages built by various software contractors. Current work includes the development of FalconView as part of XPlan, the Department of Defense's most recent mission planning system. The Joint Mission Planning System is also being added to FalconView as a plugin. The program has an active user community, and the Georgia Tech Research Institute plans events supporting the program.\n\nDevelopment of FalconView began in 1993 by the Georgia Tech Research Institute after they were contracted by the Air National Guard (ANG) to create a mapping package that would run on a personal computer and be easier to use than the existing UNIX-based system. According to John Pyles, the head of the initial FalconView development team, the idea for the project came from then-Captain Bobby Sandford, a fighter pilot in the Air National Guard. The software was named for the F-16 Fighting Falcon, the full name of the fighter flown by Sandford. Georgia Tech Research Institute had previously developed mapping applications as part of the Micro Fix and the FORSCOM Automated Intelligence Support System (FAISS) programs for the United States Army. The initial development was performed under an Army Research Lab contract. The combination of FalconView and the Combat Flight Planning Software (CFPS) which was being developed by the USAF 46th Test Squadron and TYBRIN Corp became the Portable Flight Planning Software (PFPS). The first version of FalconView was completed in 1994. The software ran on MS-DOS, with a version for Windows 3.1 released not long after.\n\nThe initial versions of FalconView were simply a set of routines to display scanned raster maps such as CADRG (compressed arc digital raster graphics) with simple stick routes drawn on top, but the easy to use software was popular with the end users and more functionality was added. Each additional feature was developed with significant input from the user community and improved with feedback from a group of beta testers. Unlike most other DoD developed applications, the FalconView development team was given very general requirements by the ANG which were fleshed out into a product by the development team and mission planners who used the software for their daily activities. Development and improvement of FalconView features is still strongly driven by its user community.\n\nIn the early years the software was distributed to other services from user to user because it made their jobs easier. As the program matured, United States Special Operations Command adopted PFPS and added capabilities such as the Moving Map functionality (ability to have the map scroll and rotate based on the position information received from a connected GPS navigation device) and helicopter support. In 1997, the United States Air Force adopted the Portable Flight Planning Software into the Air Force Mission Support System (AFMSS) program, followed by the first Navy release in 1998 and an Army release in 2002. Each adopter of the software has funded new functionality to the program and a corresponding expansion of its ability to interact with other systems.\n\nVersion 3.2, released in 2002, added significant third party programmer support to FalconView. As a result, many new applications were developed by other government program offices and end users who used Visual Basic to automate tasks for their specific needs FalconView supports a set of programmer interfaces which allow applications to fuse their information into a single picture of the user's area of interest. The users know that data produced on FalconView can be shared with other branches of the armed services and coalition partners who have PFPS through the Foreign Military Sales Program.\n\nBecause the federal government has funded the development of FalconView, it is a nonproprietary \"government off-the-shelf\" (GOTS) application and is free of any license fees for government use. This includes the use of the Software Developers Kit (SDK) which documents the interfaces for use by government developers and contractors working on government programs.\n\nIn late 2008, Georgia Tech was funded to develop and deploy an open-source software (OSS) version of FalconView. The OSS version of FalconView includes most of the functionality of the GOTS system, excluding only a few overlays considered to be exclusively related to military mission planning. Georgia Tech posted the first alpha version of FalconView as open source in June 2009.\n\nIn 2014, two new editions of FalconView, FalconView 3-D and FalconView Mobile were announced. FalconView 3-D improves support for surface missions, and FalconView Mobile brings the core capabilities of FalconView 2-D and 3-D to the iOS and Android mobile platforms. A Linux version of the software is also being developed.\n\nThe FalconView development team at the Georgia Tech Research Institute received the National Security Award on December 12, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "4638193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4638193", "title": "Fred Feldman (philosopher)", "text": "Fred Feldman (philosopher)\n\nFred Feldman (born Newark, New Jersey, 1941) is an American philosopher who specializes in ethical theory.\n\nFred Feldman received his PhD degree in philosophy from Brown University, where he studied under Roderick Chisholm. His doctoral dissertation concerned the metaphysics of identity. He is Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, where he spent almost his entire academic career.\n\nHis books include \"Doing the Best We Can\" (Kluwer, 1986), \"Confrontations with the Reaper\" (Oxford, 1992), \"Pleasure and the Good Life\" (Oxford, 2004), and \"What is this thing called happiness?\" (Oxford, 2010). He has written a number of journal articles on metaphysics, deontic logic, theory of intrinsic value, theory of personal welfare, hedonist philosophy, morally right action, and death. He received a National Endowment for the Humanities fellowship for Spring 2008 to work on a new book on happiness.\n\nHis younger brother, Richard Feldman, is professor of philosophy, former Dean of the College in Arts, Sciences and Engineering, and Interim President at the University of Rochester.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38070771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38070771", "title": "From Hegel to Nietzsche", "text": "From Hegel to Nietzsche\n\nFrom Hegel to Nietzsche: The Revolution in 19th Century Thought () is a 1941 book about German philosophy by the philosopher Karl Löwith.\n\nLöwith gives a wide-ranging account of 19th century German philosophy that considers Karl Marx and Søren Kierkegaard, among others, in the Hegelian tradition. He refers to Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and Friedrich Nietzsche as \"the two end points between which the historical course of the German spirit in the nineteenth century moves.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8592911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8592911", "title": "George Blewett", "text": "George Blewett\n\nGeorge John Blewett (December 9, 1873 – August 15, 1912) was a Canadian academic and philosopher.\n\nBorn in Yarmouth Township in Elgin County, Ontario, the son of William Blewett, a farmer, and Mary Baker, he was raised on a farm near St. Thomas, Ontario. In 1897, he graduated from Victoria University in the University of Toronto. He studied at the University of Würzburg in 1899 and received a Ph.D. in philosophy in 1900 from Harvard University. He also did postgraduate work at Oxford University and Cambridge University.\n\nIn 1901, he became a lecturer in philosophy at Wesley College, Winnipeg. In 1906, he became the Ryerson Professor of moral philosophy at Victoria University. In 1907, he wrote \"The study of nature and the vision of God: with other essays in philosophy\". His second book \"The Christian view of the world\" was published in 1912.\n\nHe drowned while swimming, apparently the result of a heart attack, in Go Home Bay, Ontario in 1912. He was buried in the Necropolis Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "3781779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3781779", "title": "George Steiner bibliography", "text": "George Steiner bibliography\n\nGeorge Steiner's published works.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4174504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4174504", "title": "Graph of desire", "text": "Graph of desire\n\nThe graph of desire () is a conceptual tool from the psychoanalytic theory of Jacques Lacan.\n\nLacan devised numerous quasi-mathematical diagrams to represent the structure of the unconscious and its points of contact with empirical and mental reality. He adapted figures from the field of topology in order to represent the Freudian view of the mind as embodying a 'double inscription' (which could be defined as the ultimate inseparability of unconscious motivations from conscious ones).\n\nThe graph of desire was first proposed in a 1960 colloquium, and was later published in the \"Ecrits\". It depends on ideas developed originally in Lacan's \"Schema R\", a graph in which fundamental organising structures of the human mind are shown in a schematic relationship to the domains or 'orders' which in turn structure human reality: the Imaginary, the Symbolic and the Real.\n\nThe graph of desire is a 'flattened' representation of a signifying chain as it crosses a pathway Lacan called a vector of desire. It appears as two curved lines which cross one another at two separate points. Each line has a symbolic meaning.\n\nThe signifying chain begins in a linguistic sign (S) and progresses to a signification (S'), or a linguistic meaning. It can be expressed sententially and has a duration.\n\nThe vector of desire is a representation of the volition and will of the split or barred subject (\"$\"). Unlike the signifying chain, the vector of desire is expressed metaphorically, and has no duration.\n\nIt is necessary to bear in mind the special conception of the subject Lacan means by the (\"$\") symbol. The barred subject is the internally conflicted result of the processes of individuation that begin in infancy. In Lacan's account of individuation, the infant must respond to the loss of symbiosis with the mother by creating a symbol of this lack. In doing so the infant is constrained by the always-already present structures of a natural language. There is a certain relief in the summoning of a symbolically present 'mother', but the experience of the mother who returns to the infant as someone-signified-by-the-word-'mother' is nevertheless one of absolute, irremediable loss. Mother — and the world — is now mediated by the Symbolic order and the exigencies of language.\n\nWith this in mind, the crossing of the two pathways in the graph of desire can be understood to connote interference and constraint. Desire for the primordial object is not fulfilled except through the constraints of the signifying chain. The vector of desire is metaphorical, substituting various objects for the absolutely lost primordial one, and irrupting into language without regard for the passage of time, or for the particular human relationship through which the vector moves.\n\nFinally, the points at which the vector of desire and the signifying chain cross can be seen as instances of Freudian double inscription. The 'conscious and unconscious' significance of an act or utterance are one and the same, and each constrains the other.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14404", "title": "Hesychasm", "text": "Hesychasm\n\nHesychasm is a mystical tradition of contemplative prayer in the Eastern Orthodox Church. Based on Jesus's injunction in the Gospel of Matthew that \"when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray\", hesychasm in tradition has been the process of retiring inward by ceasing to register the senses, in order to achieve an experiential knowledge of God (see Theoria).\n\n\"Hesychasm\", , contemporary Byzantine , derives from the Greek \"Hesychia\" (, ), \"stillness, rest, quiet, silence\" and : \"to keep stillness.\"\n\nMetropolitan Kallistos Ware, a scholar of Eastern Orthodox theology, distinguishes five distinct usages of the term \"hesychasm\":\n\nThe origin of the term \"hesychasmos,\" and of the related terms \"hesychastes\", \"hesychia\" and \"hesychazo,\" is not entirely certain. According to the entries in Lampe's \"A Patristic Greek Lexicon\", the basic terms \"hesychia\" and \"hesychazo\" appear as early as the 4th century in such fathers as St John Chrysostom and the Cappadocians. The terms also appear in the same period in Evagrius Pontikos (c. 345 – 399), who although he is writing in Egypt is out of the circle of the Cappadocians, and in the \"Sayings of the Desert Fathers.\"\n\nThe term \"hesychast\" is used sparingly in Christian ascetical writings emanating from Egypt from the 4th century on, although the writings of Evagrius and the \"Sayings of the Desert Fathers\" do attest to it. In Egypt, the terms more often used are \"anchoretism\" (Gr. , \"withdrawal, retreat\"), and \"anchorite\" (Gr. , \"one who withdraws or retreats, i.e. a hermit\").\n\nThe term \"hesychast\" was used in the 6th century in Palestine in the \"Lives\" of Cyril of Scythopolis, many of which lives treat of hesychasts who were contemporaries of Cyril. Here, it should be noted that several of the saints about whom Cyril was writing, especially Euthymios and Savas, were in fact from Cappadocia. The laws \"(novellae)\" of the emperor Justinian I (r. 527–565) treat \"hesychast\" and \"anchorite\" as synonyms, making them interchangeable terms.\n\nThe terms \"hesychia\" and \"hesychast\" are used quite systematically in the \"Ladder of Divine Ascent\" of St John of Sinai (523–603) and in \"Pros Theodoulon\" by St Hesychios (c. 750?), who is ordinarily also considered to be of the School of Sinai. It is not known where either St John of Sinai or St Hesychios were born, nor where they received their monastic formation.\n\nIt appears that the particularity of the term \"hesychast\" has to do with the integration of the continual repetition of the Jesus Prayer into the practices of mental ascesis that were already used by hermits in Egypt. \"Hesychasm\" itself is not recorded in Lampe's Lexicon, which indicates that it is a later usage, and the term \"Jesus Prayer\" is not found in any of the fathers of the church. Saint John Cassian (c. 360 – 435) presents as the formula used in Egypt for repetitive prayer, not the Jesus Prayer, but \"O God, make speed to save me: O Lord, make haste to help me.\"\n\nBy the 14th century, however, on Mount Athos the terms \"hesychasm\" and \"hesychast\" refer to the practice and to the practitioner of a method of mental ascesis that involves the use of the Jesus Prayer assisted by certain psychophysical techniques. Most likely, the rise of the term \"hesychasm\" reflects the coming to the fore of this practice as something concrete and specific that can be discussed.\n\nBooks used by the hesychast include the \"Philokalia\", a collection of texts on prayer and solitary mental ascesis written from the 4th to the 15th centuries, which exists in a number of independent redactions; the \"Ladder of Divine Ascent;\" the collected works of St Symeon the New Theologian (949–1022); and the works of St Isaac the Syrian (7th century), as they were selected and translated into Greek at the Monastery of St Savas near Jerusalem about the 10th century.\n\nHesychastic practice involves acquiring an inner focus and blocking of the physical senses. In this, hesychasm shows its roots in Evagrius Ponticus and even in the Greek tradition of asceticism going back to Plato.\n\nAccording to some of the adepts of the Jewish Merkabah mystical tradition, if one wished to \"descend to the Merkabah\" one had to adopt the prayer posture taken by the prophet Elijah in I Kings 18:42, namely to pray with one's head between one's knees. This is the same prayer posture used by the Christian hesychasts and is the reason that they were mocked by their opponents as \"navel gazers\" (omphalopsychites). This bodily position and the practice of rhythmically breathing while invoking a divine name seems to be common to both Jewish Merkabah mysticism and Christian hesychasm. Thus the practice may have origins in the ascetical practices of the biblical prophets.\n\nAlan Segal in his book \"Paul the Convert\" suggests that the Apostle Paul may have been an early adept of Merkabah mysticism in which case what was novel to Paul's experience of divine light on the road to Damascus was not the experience of divine light itself, but that the source of this divine light identified himself as the Jesus whose followers Paul was persecuting. Daniel Boyarin notes that Paul's own account of this experience would therefore be the earliest first person account of the mystical vision of a Merkabah adept.\n\nThe hesychast interprets Jesus's injunction in the Gospel of Matthew to \"go into your closet to pray\" to mean that one should ignore the senses and withdraw inward. Saint John of Sinai writes: \n\"Theosis\" is obtained by engaging in contemplative prayer resulting from the cultivation of watchfulness (Gk: \"nepsis\"). According to the standard ascetic formulation of this process, there are three stages: \n\nSobriety contributes to this mental ascesis that rejects tempting thoughts; it puts a great emphasis on focus and attention. The hesychast is to pay extreme attention to the consciousness of his inner world and to the words of the Jesus Prayer, not letting his mind wander in any way at all. While he maintains his practice of the Jesus Prayer, which becomes automatic and continues twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, the hesychast cultivates \"nepsis\", watchful attention, to reject tempting thoughts (the \"thieves\") that come to the hesychast as he watches in sober attention in his hermitage. St John of Sinai describes hesychast practice as follows:\nThe hesychast is to attach Eros (Gr. \"eros)\", that is, \"yearning\", to his practice of sobriety so as to overcome the temptation to acedia (sloth). He is also to use an extremely directed and controlled anger against the tempting thoughts, although to obliterate them entirely he is to invoke Jesus Christ via the Jesus Prayer.\n\nMuch of the literature of hesychasm is occupied with the psychological analysis of such tempting thoughts (e.g. St Mark the Ascetic). This psychological analysis owes much to the ascetical works of Evagrius Pontikos, with its doctrine of the eight passions.\n\nThe primary task of the hesychast is to engage in mental ascesis. The hesychast is to bring his mind (Gr. \"nous)\" into his heart so as to practise both the Jesus Prayer and sobriety with his mind in his heart. In solitude and retirement, the hesychast repeats the Jesus Prayer, \"Lord Jesus Christ, son of God, have mercy on me, the sinner.\" The hesychast prays the Jesus Prayer 'with the heart'—with meaning, with intent, \"for real\" (see ontic). He never treats the Jesus Prayer as a string of syllables whose \"surface\" or overt verbal meaning is secondary or unimportant. He considers bare repetition of the Jesus Prayer as a mere string of syllables, perhaps with a \"mystical\" inner meaning beyond the overt verbal meaning, to be worthless or even dangerous. This emphasis on the actual, real invocation of Jesus Christ mirrors an Eastern understanding of mantra in that physical action/voice and meaning are utterly inseparable.\n\nThe descent of the mind into the heart is taken quite literally by the practitioners of hesychasm and is not at all considered to be a metaphorical expression. Some of the psychophysical techniques described in the texts are to assist the descent of the mind into the heart at those times that only with difficulty it descends on its own.\n\nThe goal at this stage is a practice of the Jesus Prayer with the mind in the heart, which practice is free of images (see \"Pros Theodoulon).\" By the exercise of sobriety (the mental ascesis against tempting thoughts), the hesychast arrives at a continual practice of the Jesus Prayer with his mind in his heart and where his consciousness is no longer encumbered by the spontaneous inception of images: his mind has a certain stillness and emptiness that is punctuated only by the eternal repetition of the Jesus Prayer.\n\nThis stage is called the \"guard of the mind.\" This is a very advanced stage of ascetical and spiritual practice, and attempting to accomplish this prematurely, especially with psychophysical techniques, can cause very serious spiritual and emotional harm to the would-be hesychast. St Theophan the Recluse once remarked that bodily postures and breathing techniques were virtually forbidden in his youth, since, instead of gaining the Spirit of God, people succeeded only \"in ruining their lungs.\"\n\nThe guard of the mind is the practical goal of the hesychast. It is the condition in which he remains as a matter of course throughout his day, every day until he dies.\n\nThere is a very great emphasis on humility in the practice of the Jesus Prayer, great cautions being given in the texts about the disaster that will befall the would-be hesychast if he proceeds in pride, arrogance or conceit. It is also assumed in the hesychast texts that the hesychast is a member of the Orthodox Church in good standing.\n\nIt is from the guard of the mind that he is raised to contemplation by the grace of God.\n\nThe hesychast usually experiences the contemplation of God as light, the \"uncreated light\" of the theology of St Gregory Palamas. The hesychast, when he has by the mercy of God been granted such an experience, does not remain in that experience for a very long time (there are exceptions—see for example the \"Life\" of St Savas the Fool for Christ (14th century), written by St Philotheos Kokkinos (14th century)), but he returns \"to earth\" and continues to practise the guard of the mind.\n\nThe uncreated light that the hesychast experiences is identified with the Holy Spirit. Experiences of the uncreated light are allied to the 'acquisition of the Holy Spirit'. Notable accounts of encounters with the Holy Spirit in this fashion are found in St Symeon the New Theologian's account of the illumination of \"George\" (considered a pseudonym of St Symeon himself); in the \"conversation with Motovilov\" in the \"Life\" of St Seraphim of Sarov (1759–1833); and, more recently, in the reminiscences of Elder Porphyrios (Bairaktaris) of Kafsokalivia (\"Wounded by Love\" pp. 27 – 31).\n\nHesychasts are fully integrated into the liturgical and sacramental life of the Orthodox Church, including the daily cycle of liturgical prayer of the Divine Office and the Divine Liturgy. However, hesychasts who are living as hermits might have a very rare attendance at the Divine Liturgy (see the life of Saint Seraphim of Sarov) and might not recite the Divine Office except by means of the Jesus Prayer (attested practice on Mt Athos). In general, the hesychast restricts his external activities for the sake of his hesychastic practice.\n\nOrthodox tradition warns against seeking ecstasy as an end in itself. Hesychasm is a traditional complex of ascetical practices embedded in the doctrine and practice of the Orthodox Church and intended to purify the member of the Orthodox Church and to make him ready for an encounter with God that comes to him when and if God wants, through God's grace. The goal is to acquire, through purification and grace, the Holy Spirit and salvation. Any ecstatic states or other unusual phenomena which may occur in the course of hesychast practice are considered secondary and unimportant, even quite dangerous. Moreover, seeking after unusual \"spiritual\" experiences can itself cause great harm, ruining the soul and the mind of the seeker. Such a seeking after \"spiritual\" experiences can lead to \"spiritual delusion\" (Ru. \"prelest,\" Gr. \"plani)\"—the antonym of sobriety—in which a person believes himself or herself to be a saint, has hallucinations in which he or she \"sees\" angels, Christ, etc. This state of spiritual delusion is in a superficial, egotistical way pleasurable, but can lead to madness and suicide, and, according to the hesychast fathers, makes salvation impossible.\n\nMount Athos is a center of the practice of hesychasm. St Paisius Velichkovsky and his disciples made the practice known in Russia and Romania, although hesychasm was already previously known in Russia, as is attested by St Seraphim of Sarov's independent practice of it.\n\nAbout the year 1337, hesychasm attracted the attention of a learned member of the Orthodox Church, Barlaam, a Calabrian monk who at that time held the office of abbot in the Monastery of St Saviour in Constantinople and who visited Mount Athos. Mount Athos was then at the height of its fame and influence, under the reign of Andronicus III Palaeologus and under the leadership of the \"Protos\" Symeon. On Mount Athos, Barlaam encountered hesychasts and heard descriptions of their practices, also reading the writings of the teacher in hesychasm of St Gregory Palamas, himself an Athonite monk. Trained in Western Scholastic theology, Barlaam was scandalized by hesychasm and began to combat it both orally and in his writings. As a private teacher of theology in the Western Scholastic mode, Barlaam propounded a more intellectual and propositional approach to the knowledge of God than the hesychasts taught.\n\nBarlaam took exception to the doctrine entertained by the hesychasts as to the nature of the light, the experience of which was said to be the goal of hesychast practice, regarding it as heretical and blasphemous. It was maintained by the hesychasts to be of divine origin and to be identical to the light which had been manifested to Jesus' disciples on Mount Tabor at the Transfiguration. This Barlaam held to be polytheistic, inasmuch as it postulated two eternal substances, a visible and an invisible God.\n\nOn the hesychast side, the controversy was taken up by St Gregory Palamas, afterwards Archbishop of Thessalonica, who was asked by his fellow monks on Mt Athos to defend hesychasm from the attacks of Barlaam. St Gregory himself was well-educated in Greek philosophy. St Gregory defended hesychasm in the 1340s at three different synods in Constantinople, and he also wrote a number of works in its defense.\n\nIn these works, St Gregory Palamas uses a distinction, already found in the 4th century in the works of the Cappadocian Fathers, between the energies or operations (Gr. \"energeies)\" of God and the essence of God. St Gregory taught that the energies or operations of God were uncreated. He taught that the essence of God can never be known by his creature even in the next life, but that his uncreated energies or operations can be known both in this life and in the next, and convey to the hesychast in this life and to the righteous in the next life a true spiritual knowledge of God. In Palamite theology, it is the uncreated energies of God that illumine the hesychast who has been vouchsafed an experience of the uncreated light.\n\nIn 1341, the dispute came before a synod held at Constantinople and presided over by the Emperor Andronicus III; the synod, taking into account the regard in which the writings of the pseudo-Dionysius were held, condemned Barlaam, who recanted and returned to Calabria, afterwards becoming a bishop in the Catholic Church.\n\nOne of Barlaam's friends, Gregory Akindynos, who originally was also a friend of St Gregory Palamas, took up the controversy, which also played a role in the civil war between the supporters of John Cantacuzenus and John V Palaiologos. Three other synods on the subject were held, at the second of which the followers of Barlaam gained a brief victory. But in 1351 at a synod under the presidency of the Emperor John VI Cantacuzenus, hesychast doctrine was established as the doctrine of the Orthodox Church.\n\nSt. John Cassian is not represented in the \"Philokalia\" except by two brief extracts, but this is most likely due to his having written in Latin. His works \"(Coenobitical Institutions\" and the \"Conferences)\" represent a transmittal of Evagrius Pontikos' ascetical doctrines to the West. These works formed the basis of much of the spirituality of the Order of Saint Benedict and its offshoots. Hence, the tradition of St John Cassian in the West concerning the spiritual practice of the hermit can be considered to be a tradition that is parallel to that of hesychasm in the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nWhile Constantinople experienced a succession of councils alternately approving and condemning doctrine concerning hesychasm considered as identified with Palamism (the last of the five senses in which, according to Kallistos Ware, the term is used), the Western Church held no council in which to make a pronouncement on the issue, and the word \"hesychasm\" does not appear in the \"Enchiridion Symbolorum et Definitionum\" (Handbook of Creeds and Definitions), the collection of Roman Catholic teachings originally compiled by Heinrich Joseph Dominicus Denzinger.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has thus never expressed any condemnation of Palamism, and uses in its liturgy readings from the work of Nicholas Kabasilas, a supporter of Palamas in the controversy that took place in the East. Its Liturgy of the Hours includes extracts from Kabasilas's \"Life in Christ\" on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of the Fifth Week of Easter in Year II of the two-year cycle for the Office of Readings.\n\nWestern theologians have tended to reject hesychasm, in some instances equating it with quietism, perhaps because \"quietism\" is the literal translation of \"hesychasm\". However, according to Kallistos Ware, \"To translate \"hesychasm\" as \"quietism\", while perhaps etymologically defensible, is historically and theologically misleading.\" Ware asserts that \"the distinctive tenets of the 17th-century Western quietists is not characteristic of Greek hesychasm.\" Elsewhere too, Ware argues that it is important not to translate \"hesychasm\" as \"quietism\".\n\nThese theologians generally rejected the contention that, in the case of God, the distinction between essence and energies is real rather than, albeit with a foundation in reality, notional (in the mind). In their view, affirming an ontological essence-energies distinction in God contradicted the teaching of the First Council of Nicaea on divine unity. According to Adrian Fortescue, the Scholastic theory that God is pure actuality prevented Palamism from having much influence in the West, and it was from Western Scholasticism that hesychasm's philosophical opponents in the East borrowed their weapons.\n\nIn the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" of 1909, Simon Vailhé accused Palamas's teachings that humans could achieve a corporal perception of the divinity, and his distinction between God's essence and his energies, as \"monstrous errors\" and \"perilous theological theories\". He further characterized the Eastern canonization of Palamas's teachings as a \"resurrection of polytheism\". Fortescue, also writing in the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", claimed that \"the real distinction between God's essence and operation remains one more principle, though it is rarely insisted on now, in which the Orthodox differ from Catholics.\"\n\nThe later 20th century saw a remarkable change in the attitude of Roman Catholic theologians to Palamas, a \"rehabilitation\" of him that has led to increasing parts of the Western Church considering him a saint, even if uncanonized. John Meyendorff describes the 20th-century rehabilitation of Palamas in the Western Church as a \"remarkable event in the history of scholarship.\" Andreas Andreopoulos cites the 1910 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" article by Fortescue as an example of how Barlaam's distrustful and hostile attitude regarding hesychasm survived until recently in the West, adding that now \"the Western world has started to rediscover what amounts to a lost tradition. Hesychasm, which was never anything close to a scholar's pursuit, is now studied by Western theologians who are astounded by the profound thought and spirituality of late Byzantium.\"\n\nSome Western scholars maintain that there is no conflict between Palamas's teaching and Roman Catholic thought. Some Western theologians have incorporated the essence-energies distinction into their own thinking.\nFor example, G. Philips asserts that the essence-energies distinction as presented by Palamas is \"a typical example of a perfectly admissible theological pluralism\" that is compatible with the Roman Catholic magisterium.\n\nJeffrey D. Finch claims that \"the future of East-West rapprochement appears to be overcoming the modern polemics of neo-scholasticism and neo-Palamism.\"\n\nAccording to Kallistos Ware, some Western theologians, both Roman Catholic and Anglican, see the theology of Palamas as introducing an inadmissible division within God; however, others have incorporated his theology into their own thinking, maintaining, as Jeffrey D. Finch reports, that there is no conflict between his teaching and Roman Catholic thought.\n\nPope John Paul II repeatedly emphasized his respect for Eastern theology as an enrichment for the whole Church, declaring that, even after the painful division between the Christian East and the See of Rome, that theology has opened up profound thought-provoking perspectives of interest to the entire Catholic Church. He spoke in particular of the hesychast controversy. The term \"hesychasm\", he said, refers to a practice of prayer marked by deep tranquillity of the spirit intent on contemplating God unceasingly by invoking the name of Jesus. While from a Catholic viewpoint there have been tensions concerning some developments of the practice, the pope said, there is no denying the goodness of the intention that inspired its defence, which was to stress that man is offered the concrete possibility of uniting himself in his inner heart with God in that profound union of grace known as \"theosis\", divinization.\n\nThe Jesus Prayer is referred to in J. D. Salinger's pair of stories \"Franny and Zooey\". It is also a central theme of the 2006 Russian film \"Ostrov\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5704472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5704472", "title": "Janakananda Saraswati", "text": "Janakananda Saraswati\n\nSwami Janakananda Saraswati is a tantric yoga and meditation teacher and a writer, who has had a significant influence in the dissemination of yoga and meditation in Scandinavia and Northern Europe. He is the oldest active sannyasin disciple of Satyananda Saraswati in Europe.\n\nBorn Jørgen Dreiager on 13 June 1939 in Copenhagen, Denmark he was introduced to yoga by his medical doctor as a child and continued to practise as a teenager and while in his twenties. From 1962 to 1965 he was part of a professional pantomime group, in which he learned through intensive practice how to use physical yoga as a means for creative expression and concentration.\n\nIn 1968 he met his teacher Satyananda Saraswati, who initiated him into Kriya Yoga and other advanced tantric practices. For two years he lived with Satyananda in his ashram in Bihar, India, and for several months traveled with him throughout the country.\n\nIn 1970 Janakananda returned to Denmark where he founded the Scandinavian Yoga and Meditation School, Copenhagen's first yoga school. The Scandinavian Yoga and Meditation School grew quickly and expanded to 12 independent branches in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Germany and France. It is today Scandinavia's largest yoga school and a well-known institution of the Satyananda Yoga tradition in Europe, training thousands of students each year in classical yoga and meditation.\n\nFor the past four decades, Janakananda has been active in Northern Europe, teaching in Håå Course Center, Småland, Sweden or one of the independent branches of the Scandinavian Yoga and Meditation School. He was a resident and guest teacher at the Ananda Ashram in New York through the 1980s and again in 2006, and has travelled extensively, teaching meditation, giving lectures and participating in conferences in Sydney, Singapore, Bogota, Buenos Aires, London, and several other locations around the world.\n\nIn 1971 Janakananda was one of the first in Europe to teach the full Kriya Yoga sequence of 22 kriyas, during a period of 21 or 33 days of silence, and he has done so ever since, twice a year, in retreats at Håå Course Center. Janakananda maintains that, according to the tradition, and his own teacher, Kriya Yoga should only be taught under the special conditions of an ashram, during a period of strict silence.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Janakananda advanced the teaching of the tantric sexual rituals. But, faced with criticism in the media and society in general, he quickly discontinued the teaching of this practice in favor of the more deep-reaching methods of tantra. Nevertheless, he has had \"a profound, and often unacknowledged influence on many Western Neo-Tantric teachers and practitioners of sacred sexuality\".\n\nHe is also a teacher of the deep relaxation Yoga Nidra technique.\nIn 1977, Janakananda organized \"Meditation Yoga 77\", an international yoga congress held in Stockholm and attended by an eclectic list of speakers, reflecting the many Indian teachers who would visit the Scandinavian Yoga and Meditation School in succeeding years.\n\nJanakananda uses various mediums in his teaching. These have included art, technology and science. Janakananda was a close friend and associate of the tantric poet and painter Sohan Qadri. For many years, they worked together on promoting the tantric practice of yantra meditation in the West. Janakananda is prominently featured on \"The Seer\", a short film about the life and art of Sohan Qadri.\n\nJanakananda has collaborated in scientific research into yoga with the University of Cologne, the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, The Kennedy Institute in Copenhagen, among others. He has also facilitated a deep-reaching study into Kriya Yoga's effect in the brain, performed by neuroscientist Erik Hoffmann; this was published in \"Bindu\", a yoga magazine which is among several publications for which Janakananda writes. He has also written a book, \"Yoga, Tantra and Meditation in Daily Life\" has been published in nine languages.\n\nDuring the 2009 and 2010 concert seasons, Janakananda was invited by Danish Radio to guide the tantric meditation \"Returning\" to a national radio audience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6145761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6145761", "title": "John Andrews (priest)", "text": "John Andrews (priest)\n\nJohn Andrews (1746–1813): Colonial/American priest; 4th Provost of the University of Pennsylvania (1810–1813), 3rd Vice Provost (1789–1810), and Professor of Moral Philosophy (1789-1813) of the same college; Principal of the Episcopal Academy of Philadelphia (1785–1789); Rector of St. Thomas Church in Garrison Forest, Baltimore County, Maryland (1782–1784); founder of the bases of York College of Pennsylvania (1776); Minister of St. Peter's Episcopal Church (Lewes, Delaware) (1767–1770); lecturer; and author of published textbooks and sermons. Accepted as life member of the American Philosophical Society (1787). Buried at Christ Church Burial Ground in Philadelphia.\n\nJohn Andrews, D.D., A.B., MA, first son of Moses and Letitia Cooke Andrews, was born in Cecil County on Eastern Shore of Maryland, about six miles from the head of the Elk River (Maryland), on 4 April 1746, His childhood home was a 75-acre tract of land called \"Lesson\" (patented to his father 10 March 1746) in Cecil County, Maryland.\n\nHe was great, grandson of John Andrews who immigrated in 1654 from Bisbrooke, Rutland, England, to Anne Arundel County or Calvert County in a Puritan settlement called \"Providence\" (Eastport side of Annapolis) Province of Maryland under the patronage of Lord Cecil Calvert, 2nd Baron Baltimore. His great great grandfather was Edward Andrews who was Sheriff of Rutland in 1637, whose father Anthony Andrews was sheriff of the same in 1613.\n\nIn 1772, Andrews married Elizabeth Callender, daughter of Revolutionary Capt. Robert Callender of Carlisle, Pennsylvania and Frances Slough. They had ten children, Robert (2), John (5), Letitia, Mary, Joseph, William Neill, George, Elizabeth Callender, Edward (5), and Mary Benger. The eldest, Robert, graduated at the Academy and College of Philadelphia in 1790. Mrs. Andrews death on 22 February 1798, was occasioned by the death of shock she encountered by a sudden death of a son caused by a fire.\n\nWhen he was seven years old, Andrews's father enrolled him in the Newcastle Presbytery's Head of Elk School in Head of Elk, Maryland. Andrews received an A.B. with distinguished honor from The Academy and College of Philadelphia in 1764. He later taught grammar school in Philadelphia. In 1767, he received an M.A. from the College of Philadelphia.\n\nAndrews continued his connection with the Grammar School and then took charge of a classical school in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. Having previously resolved to devote himself to the ministry in the Episcopal Church, he studied theology under the Rev. Thomas Barton, Rector of St. James's Church in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. Andrews then sailed for London, England, where he was ordained a Deacon in the Anglican Church. He was then appointed a Missionary to Lewes, Delaware by the Society for Propagating the Gospel in Foreign Parts.\nRev. John Andrews ministered at St. Peter's Episcopal Church (Lewes, Delaware) from 1767 through 1770. He then transferred to York, Pennsylvania, where assumed missionary jurisdiction at St. John's Church in York, York County and St. John's Church in Carlisle, Pennsylvania in Cumberland County. Sometime in 1775 he took charge of St. John's Church in Queen Anne's County, Maryland. As the American Revolutionary War progressed, Andrews grew conflicted: his political sympathies lay with the Americans, but he believed the oath of allegiance to England he took as part of his Holy Orders took precedence. He recused himself from public exercise of his profession and returned to York.\n\nIn 1776, during this period in York, Andrews founded the academy that evolved under several changes to become known as today the York College of Pennsylvania. In 1787 it was incorporated as York County Academy and brought under the jurisdiction of St. John's Episcopal Church.\n\nAfter the Revolution, Andrews resumed his clerical duties. On 13 April 1782 he returned to Maryland to become rector of St. Thomas Church in Garrison Forest, Baltimore County, Maryland, a position he held until 1784. That same year he was a member of the convention that organized the separation of the American Episcopal Church from the Anglican Church. He later advocated for union with the Methodist Church.\n\nIn 1785, Washington College in Chestertown, Maryland awarded Andrews an honorary Doctor of Divinity. That same year, when Episcopal Academy was founded in Philadelphia, the Academy's trustees unanimously elected Andrews as headmaster. He served in this position until 1789, when he became Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania. At UPenn he lectured admiringly on the Constitution of the United States. Of the said college, John Andrews became Vice-Provost 1789–1810 and Provost from 1810 until his death from sudden illness on 29 March 1813. Until his death he also served as Rector of St. James Church in Bristol, Pennsylvania, and assistant minister of Christ Church in Philadelphia. Rev. John Andrews is considered one of America's first scholars for he dedicated his career as a student, tutor, professor, lecturer, author, founder and administrator of schools and colleges.\nHe was elected on into the American Philosophical Society in 1787.\nReverend John Andrews, D.D. is interred at the historic Christ Church Burial Ground in Philadelphia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14521898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14521898", "title": "John Dupré", "text": "John Dupré\n\nJohn A. Dupré (born 1952) is a professional philosopher of science. He is the director of the ESRC Centre for Genomics in Society and professor of philosophy at the University of Exeter. Dupré was educated at the University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge and taught at Oxford, Stanford University and Birkbeck College of the University of London before moving to Exeter. Dupré's chief work area lies in philosophy of biology, philosophy of the social sciences, and general philosophy of science. Dupré, together with Nancy Cartwright, Ian Hacking and Patrick Suppes and Peter Galison, are often grouped together as the \"Stanford School\" of philosophy of science.\n\nIn 2010 Dupré was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in\nrecognition of his work on Darwinism, and became President-Elect of the British Society for the\nPhilosophy of Science. He is also an elected member of the governing board of the Philosophy of Science\nAssociation (USA) and of the council of the International Society for the History Philosophy and Social\nStudies of Biology.\n\nDupré advocates a pluralistic model of science as opposed to the common notion of reductionism. Physical Reductionism suggests that all science may be reduced to physical explanations due to causal or mereological links that obtain between the objects studied in the higher sciences the objects studied by physics. For example, a physical reductionist would see psychological facts as (in principle) reducible to neurological facts, which is in turn are reducible to biological facts. Biology could then be explained in terms of chemistry, and chemistry could then be explained in terms of physical explanation. While reductionism of this sort is a common position among scientists and philosophers, Dupré suggests that such reduction is not possible as the world has an inherently pluralistic structure.\n\nA classical argument for reductionism relies on a particular conception of causality, according to which each event must have a sufficient physical cause. Physical interactions are therefore sufficient to account for all causal interactions. Under this assumption, psychological or biological facts must be eliminable in favour of physical facts, given that the physical conditions do all the causal work. This makes all the other, non-physical conditions causally superfluous.\n\nDupré tries to escape this problem by rejecting determinism, and the assumption that there is a physical cause for each and every event. In place of Determinism, Dupré proposes a conception of indeterministic, probabilistic causality. His ideas are influenced by Nancy Cartwright. The philosopher Karl Popper represents a similar position.\n\nDupré is an important critic of biological research programs in the life science community. In particular, he criticises evolution-biological stories and how they are related in sociobiology and evolutionary psychology. Dupré argues that such projects must remain speculative and reflect on the prejudices of the researchers as circumstances in the world.\n\nDupré is also concerned with the handling of biological taxonomy. Biological classifications are made by humans, and are thus open to criticism and modification. This applies in particular to the classifications of humans – for instance after race or sex. Dupré's arguments in this area reflect and mirror the sentiments and criticism of evolutionary biologist Stephen Jay Gould.\n\nBooks\n\nJournal articles\n\nAppearances\n\n"}
{"id": "34366081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34366081", "title": "Jonathan Dymond", "text": "Jonathan Dymond\n\nJonathan Dymond (1796–1828) was an English Quaker and an ethical philosopher who is known for his monograph \"An Enquiry into the Accordancy of War with the Principles of Christianity\".\n\nJonathan Dymond was the son of a Quaker linen-draper of Exeter, County Devon in England. Both his parents were 'Recorded Ministers' of the Society of Friends. He had little formal education but used his time off from working in his father's shop to read and to write essays on religious and moral problems, as well as composing poetry. He determined that he should devote his energies to 'the honour of advocating peace'. In his view war was \"an evil before which, in my estimation, slavery sinks into insignificance\". In 1825 he attended the annual meeting of the Peace Society in London and went on to help set up a branch of that society in Exeter. He soon had to withdraw from taking an active part due to his failing health.\n\nThree works by Dymond have been published, two during his lifetime, the \"Inquiry\" and the \"Observations\", and one posthumously, the \"Essays\". A collection of his published and unpublished letters, poems and writings was made in 1911 by Charles William Dymond.\n\nIn his works Dymond extended the pacifist argument against war beyond the purely Christian insight of earlier generations of Quakers to wider more rationalist arguments, as in this against the notion of a distinction between aggressive and defensive war from the \"Inquiry\":\n\nDymond was a fervent antimilitarist. He saw armies as enemies of liberty and physical and moral subjection as a necessary condition of army life. The opinion he voiced prefigures some of the later objections to conscription made by Quakers and other conscientious objectors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210244", "title": "Leo Strauss", "text": "Leo Strauss\n\nLeo Strauss (; ; September 20, 1899 – October 18, 1973) was a German-American political philosopher and classicist who specialized in classical political philosophy. He was born in Germany to Jewish parents and later emigrated from Germany to the United States. He spent much of his career as a professor of political science at the University of Chicago, where he taught several generations of students and published fifteen books.\n\nTrained in the neo-Kantian tradition with Ernst Cassirer and immersed in the work of the phenomenologists Edmund Husserl and Martin Heidegger, Strauss later focused his research on the Greek texts of Plato and Aristotle, retracing their interpretation through medieval Islamic and Jewish philosophy and encouraging the application of those ideas to contemporary political theory.\n\nLeo Strauss was born in the small town of Kirchhain in Hesse-Nassau, a province of the Kingdom of Prussia (part of the German Empire), on September 20, 1899, to Hugo Strauss and Jennie Strauss, née David. According to Allan Bloom's 1974 obituary in \"Political Theory\", Strauss \"was raised as an Orthodox Jew,\" but the family does not appear to have completely embraced Orthodox practice. Strauss himself noted that he came from a \"conservative, even orthodox Jewish home,\" but one which knew little about Judaism except strict adherence to ceremonial laws. His father and uncle operated a farm supply and livestock business that they inherited from their father, Meyer (1835–1919), a leading member of the local Jewish community.\n\nAfter attending the Kirchhain Volksschule and the Protestant Rektoratsschule, Leo Strauss was enrolled at the Gymnasium Philippinum (affiliated with the University of Marburg) in nearby Marburg (from which Johannes Althusius and Carl J. Friedrich also graduated) in 1912, graduating in 1917. He boarded with the Marburg cantor Strauss (no relation); the Cantor's residence served as a meeting place for followers of the neo-Kantian philosopher Hermann Cohen. Strauss served in the German army during World War I from July 5, 1917 to December 1918.\n\nStrauss subsequently enrolled in the University of Hamburg, where he received his doctorate in 1921; his thesis, \"On the Problem of Knowledge in the Philosophical Doctrine of F. H. Jacobi\" (\"Das Erkenntnisproblem in der philosophischen Lehre Fr. H. Jacobis\"), was supervised by Ernst Cassirer. He also attended courses at the Universities of Freiburg and Marburg, including some taught by Edmund Husserl and Martin Heidegger. Strauss joined a Jewish fraternity and worked for the German Zionist movement, which introduced him to various German Jewish intellectuals, such as Norbert Elias, Leo Löwenthal, Hannah Arendt and Walter Benjamin. Walter Benjamin was and remained an admirer of Strauss and of his work throughout his life.\n\nStrauss' closest friend was Jacob Klein but he also was intellectually engaged with Karl Löwith, Julius Guttman, Hans-Georg Gadamer, Franz Rosenzweig (to whom Strauss dedicated his first book), Gershom Scholem, Alexander Altmann, and the Arabist Paul Kraus, who married Strauss' sister Bettina (Strauss and his wife later adopted their child when both parents died in the Middle East). With several of these friends, Strauss carried on vigorous epistolary exchanges later in life, many of which are published in the \"Gesammelte Schriften\" (\"Collected Writings\"), some in translation from the German. Strauss had also been engaged in a discourse with Carl Schmitt. However, after Strauss left Germany, he broke off the discourse when Schmitt failed to respond to his letters.\n\nIn 1931, Strauss sought his post-doctoral habilitation with the theologian Paul Tillich, but was turned down. After receiving a Rockefeller Fellowship in 1932, Strauss left his position at the Higher Institute for Jewish Studies in Berlin for Paris. He returned to Germany only once, for a few short days twenty years later. In Paris he married Marie (Miriam) Bernsohn, a widow with a young child, whom he had known previously in Germany. He adopted his wife's son, Thomas, and later his sister's child; he and Miriam had no biological children of their own. At his death he was survived by Thomas, daughter Jenny Strauss Clay, and three grandchildren. Strauss became a lifelong friend of Alexandre Kojève and was on friendly terms with Raymond Aron, Alexandre Koyré, and Étienne Gilson. Because of the Nazis' rise to power, he chose not to return to his native country. Strauss found shelter, after some vicissitudes, in England, where in 1935 he gained temporary employment at University of Cambridge, with the help of his in-law, David Daube, who was affiliated with Gonville and Caius College. While in England, he became a close friend of R. H. Tawney, and was on less friendly terms with Isaiah Berlin.\n\nUnable to find permanent employment in England, Strauss moved in 1937 to the United States, under the patronage of Harold Laski, who made introductions and helped him obtain a brief lectureship. After a short stint as Research Fellow in the Department of History at Columbia University, Strauss secured a position at The New School, where, between 1938 and 1948, he worked the political science faculty and also took on adjunct jobs. In 1939, he served for a short term as a visiting professor at Hamilton College. He became a U.S. citizen in 1944, and in 1949 he became a professor of political science at the University of Chicago, holding the Robert Maynard Hutchins Distinguished Service Professorship until he left in 1969.\n\nIn 1953, Strauss coined the phrase \"reductio ad Hitlerum\".\n\nIn 1954 he met Löwith and Gadamer in Heidelberg and delivered a public speech on Socrates. He had received a call for a temporary lectureship in Hamburg in 1965 (which he declined for health reasons) and received and accepted an honorary doctorate from Hamburg University and the Bundesverdienstkreuz (German Order of Merit) via the German representative in Chicago. In 1969 Strauss moved to Claremont McKenna College (formerly Claremont Men's College) in California for a year, and then to St. John's College, Annapolis in 1970, where he was the Scott Buchanan Distinguished Scholar in Residence until his death from pneumonia in 1973.\n\nFor Strauss, politics and philosophy were necessarily intertwined. He regarded the trial and death of Socrates as the moment when political philosophy came into existence. Strauss considered one of the most important moments in the history of philosophy Socrates' argument that philosophers could not study nature without considering their own human nature, which, in the words of Aristotle, is that of \"a political animal.\" However, he also held that the ends of politics and philosophy were inherently irreconcilable and irreducible to one another.\n\nStrauss distinguished \"scholars\" from \"great thinkers\", identifying himself as a scholar. He wrote that most self-described philosophers are in actuality scholars, cautious and methodical. Great thinkers, in contrast, boldly and creatively address big problems. Scholars deal with these problems only indirectly by reasoning about the great thinkers' differences.\n\nIn \"Natural Right and History\" Strauss begins with a critique of Max Weber's epistemology, briefly engages the relativism of Martin Heidegger (who goes unnamed), and continues with a discussion of the evolution of natural rights via an analysis of the thought of Thomas Hobbes and John Locke. He concludes by critiquing Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Edmund Burke. At the heart of the book are excerpts from Plato, Aristotle, and Cicero. Much of his philosophy is a reaction to the works of Heidegger. Indeed, Strauss wrote that Heidegger's thinking must be understood and confronted before any complete formulation of modern political theory is possible, and this entails that political thought has to engage with issues of ontology and the history of metaphysics.\n\nStrauss wrote that Friedrich Nietzsche was the first philosopher to properly understand historicism, an idea grounded in a general acceptance of Hegelian philosophy of history. Heidegger, in Strauss' view, sanitized and politicized Nietzsche, whereas Nietzsche believed \"our own principles, including the belief in progress, will become as unconvincing and alien as all earlier principles (essences) had shown themselves to be\" and \"the only way out seems to be ... that one voluntarily choose life-giving delusion instead of deadly truth, that one fabricate a myth\". Heidegger believed that the tragic nihilism of Nietzsche was a \"myth\" guided by a defective Western conception of Being that Heidegger traced to Plato. In his published correspondence with Alexandre Kojève, Strauss wrote that Hegel was correct when he postulated that an end of history implies an end to philosophy as understood by classical political philosophy.\n\nIn the late 1930s, Strauss called for the first time for a reconsideration of the \"distinction between exoteric (or public) and esoteric (or secret) teaching\". In 1952 he published \"Persecution and the Art of Writing\", arguing that serious writers write esoterically, that is, with multiple or layered meanings, often disguised within irony or paradox, obscure references, even deliberate self-contradiction. Esoteric writing serves several purposes: protecting the philosopher from the retribution of the regime, and protecting the regime from the corrosion of philosophy; it attracts the right kind of reader and repels the wrong kind; and ferreting out the interior message is in itself an exercise of philosophic reasoning. Taking his bearings from his study of Maimonides and Al Farabi, and pointing further back to Plato's discussion of writing as contained in the \"Phaedrus\", Strauss proposed that the classical and medieval art of \"esoteric\" writing is the proper medium for philosophic learning: rather than displaying philosophers' thoughts superficially, classical and medieval philosophical texts guide their readers in thinking and learning independently of imparted knowledge. Thus, Strauss agrees with the Socrates of the \"Phaedrus\", where the Greek indicates that, insofar as writing does not respond when questioned, good writing provokes questions in the reader—questions that orient the reader towards an understanding of problems the author thought about with utmost seriousness.\n\nStrauss's hermeneutical argument—rearticulated throughout his subsequent writings (most notably in \"The City and Man\" [1964])—is that, prior to the 19th century, Western scholars commonly understood that philosophical writing is not at home in any polity, no matter how liberal. Insofar as it questions conventional wisdom at its roots, philosophy must guard itself especially against those readers who believe themselves authoritative, wise, and liberal defenders of the status quo. In questioning established opinions, or in investigating the principles of morality, philosophers of old found it necessary to convey their messages in an oblique manner. Their \"art of writing\" was the art of esoteric communication. This was especially apparent in medieval times, when heterodox political thinkers wrote under the threat of the Inquisition or comparably obtuse tribunals.\n\nStrauss's argument is not that the medieval writers he studies reserved one exoteric meaning for the many (hoi polloi) and an esoteric, hidden one for the few (hoi aristoi), but that, through rhetorical stratagems including self-contradiction and hyperboles, these writers succeeded in conveying their proper meaning at the tacit heart of their writings—a heart or message irreducible to \"the letter\" or historical dimension of texts.\n\nExplicitly following Gotthold Ephraim Lessing's lead, Strauss indicates that medieval political philosophers, no less than their ancient counterparts, carefully adapted their wording to the dominant moral views of their time, lest their writings be condemned as heretical or unjust, not by \"the many\" (who did not read), but by those \"few\" whom the many regarded as the most righteous guardians of morality. It was precisely these righteous personalities who would be most inclined to persecute/ostracize anyone who was in the business of exposing the noble or great lie upon which the authority of the few over the many stands or falls.\n\nAccording to his critics, especially Shadia Drury, Strauss wrongly assumes a distinction between an \"exoteric\" or salutary and an \"esoteric\" or \"true\" aspect of the philosophy of pre-modern political philosophers. Furthermore, Strauss is often accused of having himself written esoterically. The accusation would seem to rest upon the belief that in modern liberal societies and, especially in the United States, philosophers are not free to voice their philosophical views in public without being accused of impropriety.\n\nAccording to Strauss, modern social science is flawed because it assumes the fact–value distinction, a concept which Strauss found dubious. He traced its roots in Enlightenment philosophy to Max Weber, a thinker whom Strauss described as a \"serious and noble mind.\" Weber wanted to separate values from science but, according to Strauss, was really a derivative thinker, deeply influenced by Nietzsche's relativism. Strauss treated politics as something that could not be studied from afar. A political scientist examining politics with a value-free scientific eye, for Strauss, was self-deluded. Positivism, the heir to both Auguste Comte and Max Weber in the quest to make purportedly value-free judgments, failed to justify its own existence, which would require a value judgment.\n\nWhile modern liberalism had stressed the pursuit of individual liberty as its highest goal, Strauss felt that there should be a greater interest in the problem of human excellence and political virtue. Through his writings, Strauss constantly raised the question of how, and to what extent, freedom and excellence can coexist. Strauss refused to make do with any simplistic or one-sided resolutions of the Socratic question: \"What is the good for the city and man?\"\n\nTwo significant political-philosophical dialogues Strauss had with living thinkers were those he held with Carl Schmitt and Alexandre Kojève. Schmitt, who would later become, for a short time, the chief jurist of Nazi Germany, was one of the first important German academics to review Strauss's early work positively. Schmitt's positive reference for, and approval of, Strauss's work on Hobbes was instrumental in winning Strauss the scholarship funding that allowed him to leave Germany.\n\nStrauss's critique and clarifications of \"The Concept of the Political\" led Schmitt to make significant emendations in its second edition. Writing to Schmitt in 1932, Strauss summarised Schmitt's political theology that \"because man is by nature evil, he therefore needs \"dominion\". But dominion can be established, that is, men can be unified only in a unity against—against other men. Every association of men is necessarily a separation from other men ... the political thus understood is not the constitutive principle of the state, of order, but a condition of the state.\"\n\nStrauss, however, directly opposed Schmitt's position. For Strauss, Schmitt and his return to Thomas Hobbes helpfully clarified the nature of our political existence and our modern self-understanding. Schmitt's position was therefore symptomatic of the modern liberal self-understanding. Strauss believed that such an analysis, as in Hobbes's time, served as a useful \"preparatory action\", revealing our contemporary orientation towards the eternal problems of politics (social existence). However, Strauss believed that Schmitt's reification of our modern self-understanding of the problem of politics into a political theology was not an adequate solution. Strauss instead advocated a return to a broader classical understanding of human nature and a tentative return to political philosophy, in the tradition of the ancient philosophers.\n\nWith Kojève, Strauss had a close and lifelong philosophical friendship. They had first met as students in Berlin. The two thinkers shared a boundless philosophical respect for each other. Kojève would later write that, without befriending Strauss, \"I never would have known ... what philosophy is\". The political-philosophical dispute between Kojève and Strauss centred on the role that philosophy should and can be allowed to play in politics.\n\nKojève, a senior civil servant in the French government, was instrumental in the creation of the European Economic Community. He argued that philosophers should have an active role in shaping political events. Strauss, on the contrary, believed that philosophers should play a role in politics only to the extent that they can ensure that philosophy, which he saw as mankind's highest activity, can be free from political intervention.\n\nStrauss taught that liberalism in its modern form (which is oriented toward universal freedom as opposed to \"ancient liberalism\" which is oriented toward human excellence), contained within it an intrinsic tendency towards extreme relativism, which in turn led to two types of nihilism:\n\nThe first was a \"brutal\" nihilism, expressed in Nazi and Marxist regimes. In \"On Tyranny\", he wrote that these ideologies, both descendants of Enlightenment thought, tried to destroy all traditions, history, ethics, and moral standards and replace them by force under which nature and mankind are subjugated and conquered. The second type—the \"gentle\" nihilism expressed in Western liberal democracies—was a kind of value-free aimlessness and a hedonistic \"permissive egalitarianism\", which he saw as permeating the fabric of contemporary American society.\n\nIn the belief that 20th century relativism, scientism, historicism, and nihilism were all implicated in the deterioration of modern society and philosophy, Strauss sought to uncover the philosophical pathways that had led to this situation. The resultant study led him to advocate a tentative return to classical political philosophy as a starting point for judging political action.\n\nAccording to Strauss, \"The Republic\" by Plato is not \"a blueprint for regime reform\" (a play on words from Karl Popper's \"Open Society and Its Enemies\", which attacks \"The Republic\" for being just that). Strauss quotes Cicero: \"\"The Republic\" does not bring to light the best possible regime but rather the nature of political things—the nature of the city.\"\n\nStrauss argued that the city-in-speech was unnatural, precisely because \"it is rendered possible by the abstraction from \"eros\"\". Though skeptical of \"progress\", Strauss was equally skeptical about political agendas of \"return\"—that is, going backward instead of forward.\n\nIn fact, he was consistently suspicious of anything claiming to be a solution to an old political or philosophical problem. He spoke of the danger in trying finally to resolve the debate between rationalism and traditionalism in politics. In particular, along with many in the pre-World War II German Right, he feared people trying to force a world state to come into being in the future, thinking that it would inevitably become a tyranny. Hence he kept his distance from the totalitarianisms of his century, the right-wing fascists and the left-wing communists.\n\nStrauss actively rejected Karl Popper's views as illogical. He agreed with a letter of response to his request of Eric Voegelin to look into the issue. In the response, Voegelin wrote that studying Popper's views was a waste of precious time, and \"an annoyance\". Specifically about \"Open Society and Its Enemies\" and Popper's understanding of Plato's \"The Republic\", after giving some examples, Voegelin wrote:\n\nStrauss proceeded to show this letter to Kurt Riezler who used his influence in order to oppose Popper's appointment at the University of Chicago.\n\nStrauss constantly stressed the importance of two dichotomies in political philosophy: Athens and Jerusalem (Reason and Revelation) and Ancient versus Modern. The \"Ancients\" were the Socratic philosophers and their intellectual heirs; the \"Moderns\" start with Niccolò Machiavelli. The contrast between Ancients and Moderns was understood to be related to the unresolvable tension between Reason and Revelation. The Socratics, reacting to the first Greek philosophers, brought philosophy back to earth, and hence back to the marketplace, making it more political.\n\nThe Moderns reacted to the dominance of revelation in medieval society by promoting the possibilities of Reason. They objected to Aquinas's merger of natural right and natural theology, for it made natural right vulnerable to sideshow theological disputes. Thomas Hobbes, under the influence of Francis Bacon, re-oriented political thought to what was most solid but also most low in man—his physical hopes and fears—setting a precedent for John Locke and the later economic approach to political thought, as in David Hume and Adam Smith.\n\nAs a youth, Strauss belonged to the German Zionist youth group, along with his friends Gershom Scholem and Walter Benjamin. Both were admirers of Strauss and would continue to be throughout their lives. When he was 17, as he said, he was \"converted\" to political Zionism as a follower of Vladimir Jabotinsky. He wrote several essays pertaining to its controversies but left these activities behind by his early twenties.\n\nWhile Strauss maintained a sympathetic interest in Zionism, he later came to refer to Zionism as \"problematic\" and became disillusioned with some of its aims.\n\nHe taught at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem during the 1954–55 academic year. In his letter to a \"National Review\" editor, Strauss asked why Israel had been called a racist state by one of their writers. He argued that the author did not provide enough proof for his argument. He ended his essay with the following statement:\n\nAlthough Strauss espoused the utility of religious belief, there is some question about his views on its truth. In some quarters the opinion has been that, whatever his views on the utility of religion, he was personally an atheist. Strauss, however, was openly disdainful of atheism, as he made apparent in his writings on Max Weber. He especially disapproved of contemporary dogmatic disbelief, which he considered intemperate and irrational and felt that one should either be \"the philosopher open to the challenge of theology or the theologian open to the challenge of philosophy.\" One interpretation is that Strauss, in the interplay of Jerusalem and Athens, or revelation and reason, sought, as did Thomas Aquinas, to hold revelation to the rigours of reason, but where Aquinas saw an amicable interplay, Strauss saw two impregnable fortresses. Werner Dannhauser, in analyzing Strauss' letters, writes, \"It will not do to simply think of Strauss as a godless, a secular, a lukewarm Jew.\" As one commenter, Edward Feser, put it:\n\nStrauss was not himself an orthodox believer, neither was he a convinced atheist. Since whether or not to accept a purported divine revelation is itself one of the \"permanent\" questions, orthodoxy must always remain an option equally as defensible as unbelief.\n\nFeser's statement invites the suspicion that Strauss may have been an unconvinced atheist, or that he welcomed religion as merely (practically) useful, rather than as true. The supposition that Strauss was an unconvinced atheist is not necessarily incompatible with Dannhauser's tentative claim that Strauss was an atheist behind closed doors. Hilail Gildin responded to Dannhauser's reading in \"Déjà Jew All Over Again: Dannhauser on Leo Strauss and Atheism,\" an article published in \"Interpretation: A Journal of Political Philosophy\". Gildin exposed inconsistencies between Strauss's writings and Dannhauser's claims; he also questioned the inherent consistency of Dannhauser's admittedly tentative evaluation of Strauss's understanding of divinity and religion.\n\nAt the end of his \"The City and Man\", Strauss invites his reader to \"be open to the full impact of the all-important question which is coeval with philosophy although the philosophers do not frequently pronounce it—the question \"quid sit deus\" [\"What is God?\"]\" (p. 241). As a philosopher, Strauss would be interested in knowing the nature of divinity, instead of trying to dispute the very being of divinity. But Strauss did not remain \"neutral\" to the question about the \"quid\" of divinity. Already in his \"Natural Right and History\", he defended a Socratic (Platonic, Ciceronian, Aristotelian) reading of divinity, distinguishing it from a materialistic, conventionalist, Epicurean reading. Here, the question of \"religion\" (what is religion?) is inseparable from the question of the nature of civil society, and thus of civil right, or right having authoritative representation, or right capable of defending itself (Latin: \"Jus\"). Atheism, whether convinced (overt) or unconvinced (tacit), is integral to the conventionalist reading of civil authority, and thereby of religion in its originally civil valence, a reading against which Strauss argues throughout his volume. Thus Strauss's own arguments contradict the thesis imputed to him posthumously by scholars such as S. Drury who profess that Strauss approached religion as an instrument devoid of inherent purpose or meaning.\n\nStrauss's works were read and admired by thinkers as diverse as Gershom Scholem, Walter Benjamin, Jacques Lacan, Hans-Georg Gadamer and Alexandre Kojève. Benjamin had become acquainted with Strauss as a student in Berlin, and expressed admiration for Strauss throughout his life. Gadamer stated that he 'largely agreed' with Strauss's interpretations.\n\nSome critics of Strauss have accused him of being elitist, illiberalist and anti-democratic. Shadia Drury, in \"Leo Strauss and the American Right\" (1999), claimed that Strauss inculcated an elitist strain in American political leaders linked to imperialist militarism, neoconservatism and Christian fundamentalism. Drury argues that Strauss teaches that \"perpetual deception of the citizens by those in power is critical because they need to be led, and they need strong rulers to tell them what's good for them.\" Nicholas Xenos similarly argues that Strauss was \"an anti-democrat in a fundamental sense, a true reactionary.\" As Xenos says, \"Strauss was somebody who wanted to go back to a previous, pre-liberal, pre-bourgeois era of blood and guts, of imperial domination, of authoritarian rule, of pure fascism.\"\n\nStrauss has also been criticized by some conservatives. According to Claes G. Ryn, Strauss's anti-historicist thinking creates an artificial contrast between moral universality and \"the conventional,\" \"the ancestral,\" and \"the historical.\" Strauss, Ryn argues, wrongly and reductively assumes that respect for tradition must undermine reason and universality. Contrary to Strauss's criticism of Edmund Burke, the historical sense may in fact be indispensable to an adequate apprehension of universality. Strauss's abstract, ahistorical conception of natural right actually distorts genuine universality, Ryn contends. Strauss does not consider the possibility that real universality becomes known to human beings in concretized, particular form. Strauss and the Straussians have paradoxically taught philosophically unsuspecting American conservatives, not least Roman Catholic intellectuals, to reject tradition in favor of ahistorical theorizing, a bias that flies in the face of the central Christian notion of the Incarnation, which represents a synthesis of the universal and the historical. According to Ryn, the propagation of a purely abstract idea of universality has contributed to the neoconservative advocacy of allegedly universal American principles, which neoconservatives see as justification for American intervention around the world—bringing the blessings of the \"West\" to the benighted \"rest\". Strauss's anti-historical thinking connects him and his followers with the French Jacobins, who also regarded tradition as incompatible with virtue and rationality. What Ryn calls the \"new Jacobinism\" of the \"neoconservative\" philosophy is, writes Paul Edward Gottfried, also the rhetoric of Saint-Just and Trotsky, which the philosophically impoverished American Right has taken over with mindless alacrity. Republican operators and think tanks apparently believe they can carry the electorate by appealing to yesterday's leftist clichés.\n\nJournalists such as Seymour Hersh have opined that Strauss endorsed noble lies, \"myths used by political leaders seeking to maintain a cohesive society.\" In \"The City and Man,\" Strauss discusses the myths outlined in Plato's \"Republic\" that are required for all governments. These include a belief that the state's land belongs to it even though it may have been acquired illegitimately and that citizenship is rooted in something more than the accidents of birth.\n\nIn his 2009 book, \"Straussophobia\", Peter Minowitz provides a detailed critique of Drury, Xenos, and other critics of Strauss whom he accuses of \"bigotry and buffoonery.\" In his 2006 book review of \"Reading Leo Strauss\", by Steven B. Smith, Robert Alter writes that Smith \"persuasively sets the record straight on Strauss's political views and on what his writing is really about.\" Smith rejects the link between Strauss and neoconservative thought, arguing that Strauss was never personally active in politics, never endorsed imperialism, and questioned the utility of political philosophy for the practice of politics. In particular, Strauss argued that Plato's myth of the philosopher king should be read as a reductio ad absurdum, and that philosophers should understand politics, not in order to influence policy but to ensure philosophy's autonomy from politics. Additionally, Mark Lilla has argued that the attribution to Strauss of neoconservative views contradicts a careful reading of Strauss' actual texts, in particular \"On Tyranny\". Lilla summarizes Strauss as follows:\n\nPhilosophy must always be aware of the dangers of tyranny, as a threat to both political decency and the philosophical life. It must understand enough about politics to defend its own autonomy, without falling into the error of thinking that philosophy can shape the political world according to its own lights.\n\nFinally, responding to charges that Strauss's teachings fostered the neoconservative foreign policy of the George W. Bush administration, such as \"unrealistic hopes for the spread of liberal democracy through military conquest,\" Professor Nathan Tarcov, director of the Leo Strauss Center at the University of Chicago, in an article published in \"The American Interest\", asserts that Strauss as a political philosopher was essentially non-political. After an exegesis of the very limited practical political views to be gleaned from Strauss's writings, Tarcov concludes that \"Strauss can remind us of the permanent problems, but we have only ourselves to blame for our faulty solutions to the problems of today.\" Likewise Strauss's daughter, Jenny Strauss Clay, in a \"New York Times\" article defended Strauss against the charge that he was the \"mastermind behind the neoconservative ideologues who control United States foreign policy.\" \"He was a conservative,\" she says, \"insofar as he did not think change is necessarily change for the better.\" Since contemporary academia \"leaned to the left,\" with its \"unquestioned faith in progress and science combined with a queasiness regarding any kind of moral judgment,\" Strauss stood outside of the academic consensus. Had academia leaned to the right, he would have questioned it, too—and on certain occasions \"did\" question the tenets of the right.\n\nStraussianism is the name given \"to denote the research methods, common concepts, theoretical presuppositions, central questions, and pedagogic style characteristic of the large number of conservatives who have been influenced by the thought and teaching of Leo Strauss.\" While it \"is particularly influential among university professors of historical political theory ... it also sometimes serves as a common intellectual framework more generally among conservative activists, think tank professionals, and public intellectuals.\" Within the discipline of political theory the method calls for its practitioners to use \"a 'close reading' of the 'Great Books' of political thought; they strive to understand a thinker 'as he understood himself'; they are unconcerned with questions about the historical context of, or historical influences on, a given author\" and strive to be open to the idea that they may find something timelessly true in a great book. The approach \"resembles in important ways the old New Criticism in literary studies.\"\n\nThere is some controversy in the approach over what distinguishes a great book from lesser works. Great books are held to be written by authors/philosophers \"of such sovereign critical self-knowledge and intellectual power that they can in no way be reduced to the general thought of their time and place,\" with other works \"understood as epiphenomenal to the original insights of a thinker of the first rank.\" This approach is seen as a counter \"to the historicist presuppositions of the mid-twentieth century, which read the history of political thought in a progressivist way, with past philosophies forever cut off from us in a superseded past.\" Straussianism puts forward the possibility that past thinkers may have \"hold of \"the truth\"—and that more recent thinkers are therefore wrong.\"\n\nHarvey Mansfield has argued that there is no such thing as \"Straussianism\" yet there are Straussians and a school of Straussians. Mansfield describes the school as \"open to the whole of philosophy\" and without any definite doctrines that one has to believe to belong to it.\n\nAlmost the entirety of Strauss's writings has been translated into Chinese; and there even is a school of Straussians in China, the most prominent being Liu Xiaofeng (Renmin University). \"Chinese Straussians\" (who often are also fascinated by Carl Schmitt) represent a remarkable example of the hybridization of Western political theory in a non-Western context. As the editors of a recent volume write, \"the reception of Schmitt and Strauss in the Chinese-speaking world (and especially in the People's Republic of China) not only says much about how Schmitt and Strauss can be read today, but also provides important clues about the deeper contradictions of Western modernity and the dilemmas of non-liberal societies in our increasingly contentious world.\" \n\nStudents who studied under Strauss, or attended his lecture courses at the University of Chicago, include George Anastaplo, Hadley Arkes, Seth Benardete, Allan Bloom, Werner Dannhauser, Murray Dry, Charles Butterworth, William Galston, Victor Gourevitch, Harry V. Jaffa, Roger Masters, Clifford Orwin, Thomas Pangle, Stanley Rosen, Abram Shulsky (Director of the Office of Special Plans), Susan Sontag, Warren Winiarski, and Paul Wolfowitz (who attended two lecture courses by Strauss on Plato and Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\" at the University of Chicago). Harvey C. Mansfield, Steven B. Smith and Steven Berg, though never students of Strauss, are \"Straussians\" (as some followers of Strauss identify themselves). Richard Rorty described Strauss as a particular influence in his early studies at the University of Chicago, where Rorty studied a \"classical curriculum\" under Strauss.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24064229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24064229", "title": "Love After Love (poem)", "text": "Love After Love (poem)\n\n\"Love After Love\" is a poem by Derek Walcott, included in his \"Collected Poems, 1948–1984\" (1986). \n\n"}
{"id": "2005972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005972", "title": "Monadology", "text": "Monadology\n\nThe Monadology (, 1714) is one of Gottfried Leibniz’s best known works representing his later philosophy. It is a short text which sketches in some 90 paragraphs a metaphysics of simple substances, or \"monads\".\n\nDuring his last stay in Vienna from 1712 to September 1714, Leibniz wrote two short texts in French which were meant as concise expositions of his philosophy. After his death \"Principes de la nature et de la grâce fondé en raison\", which was intended for prince Eugene of Savoy, appeared in French in the Netherlands. Christian Wolff and collaborators published translations in German and Latin of the second text which came to be known as \"The Monadology\". Without having seen the Dutch publication of the \"Principes\" they had assumed that it was the French original of the \"Monadology,\" which in fact remained unpublished until 1840.\n\nThe German translation appeared in 1720 as \"Lehrsätze über die Monadologie\" and the following year the \"Acta Eruditorum\" printed the Latin version as \"Principia philosophiae\". There are three original manuscripts of the text: the first written by Leibniz and overcharged with corrections and two further emended copies with some corrections appearing in one but not the other. Leibniz himself inserted references to the paragraphs of his \"Théodicée\" (\"Theodicy\", i.e. a justification of God), sending the interested reader there for more details.\n\nThe \"monad\", the word and the idea, belongs to the Western philosophical tradition and has been used by various authors. Leibniz, who was exceptionally well read, could not have ignored this, but he did not use it himself until mid-1696 when he was sending for print his \"New System\". Apparently he found with it a convenient way to expose his own philosophy as it was elaborated in this period. What he proposed can be seen as a modification of occasionalism developed by latter-day Cartesians. Leibniz surmised that there are indefinitely many substances individually 'programmed' to act in a predetermined way, each substance being coordinated with all the others. This is the pre-established harmony which solved the mind-body problem, but at the cost of declaring any interaction between substances a mere appearance.\n\nThe rhetorical strategy adopted by Leibniz in \"The Monadology\" is fairly obvious as the text\n\n(I) As far as Leibniz allows just one type of element in the building of the universe his system is monistic. The unique element has been 'given the general name monad or entelechy' and described as 'a simple substance' (§§1, 19). When Leibniz says that monads are 'simple,' he means that \"which is one, has no parts and is therefore indivisible\". Relying on the Greek etymology of the word \"entelechie\"\n(§18), Leibniz posits quantitative differences in perfection between monads which leads to a hierarchical ordering. The basic order is three-tiered: (1) entelechies or created monads (§48), (2) souls or entelechies with perception and memory (§19), and (3) spirits or rational souls (§82). Whatever is said about the lower ones (entelechies) is valid for the higher (souls and spirits) but not vice versa. As none of them is without a body (§72), there is a corresponding hierarchy of (1) living beings and animals (2), the latter being either (2) non-reasonable or (3) reasonable. The degree of perfection in each case corresponds to cognitive abilities and only spirits or reasonable animals are able to grasp the ideas of both the world and its creator. Some monads have power over others because they can perceive with greater clarity, but primarily, one monad is said to dominate another if it contains the reasons for the actions of other(s). Leibniz believed that any body, such as the body of an animal or man, has one dominant monad which controls the others within it. This dominant monad is often referred to as the soul.\n\n(II) God is also said to be a simple substance (§47) but it is the only one necessary (§§38–9) and without a body attached (§72). Monads perceive others “with varying degrees of clarity, except for God, who perceives all monads with utter clarity”. God could take any and all perspectives, knowing of both potentiality and actuality. As well as that God in all his power would know the universe from each of the infinite perspectives at the same time, and so his perspectives—his thoughts—“simply are monads\". Creation is a permanent state, thus \"[monads] are generated, so to speak, by continual fulgurations of the Divinity\" (§47). Any perfection comes from being created while imperfection is a limitation of nature (§42). The monads are unaffected by each other, but each have a unique way of expressing themselves in the universe, in accordance with God’s infinite will.\n\n(III) Composite substances or matter are \"actually sub-divided without end\" and have the properties of their infinitesimal parts (§65). A notorious passage (§67) explains that \"each portion of matter can be conceived as like a garden full of plants, or like a pond full of fish. But each branch of a plant, each organ of an animal, each drop of its bodily fluids is also a similar garden or a\nsimilar pond\". There are no interactions between different monads nor between entelechies and their bodies but everything is regulated by the pre-established harmony (§§78–9). Much like how one clock may be in synchronicity with another, but the first clock is not caused by the second (or vice versa), rather they are only keeping the same time because the last person to wind them set them to the same time. So it is with monads; they may seem to cause each other, but rather they are, in a sense, “wound” by God’s pre-established harmony, and thus appear to be in synchronicity. Leibniz concludes that \"if we could understand the order of the universe well enough, we would find that it surpasses all the wishes of the wisest people, and that it is impossible to make it better than it is — not merely in respect of the whole in general, but also in respect of ourselves in particular\" (§90).\n\nIn his day, atoms were proposed to be the smallest division of matter. Within Leibniz’s theory, however, substances are not technically real, so monads are not the smallest part of matter, rather they are the only things which are, in fact, real. To Leibniz, space and time were an illusion, and likewise substance itself. The only things that could be called real were utterly simple beings of psychic activity “endowed with perception and appetite.” The other objects, which we call matter, are merely phenomena of these simple perceivers. “Leibniz says, ‘I don't really eliminate body, but reduce [revoco] it to what it is. For I show that corporeal mass [massa], which is thought to have something over and above simple substances, is not a substance, but a phenomenon resulting from simple substances, which alone have unity and absolute reality.’ (G II 275/AG 181)” Leibniz’s philosophy is sometimes called “‘panpsychic idealism’ because these substances are psychic rather than material”. That is to say, they are mind-like substances, not possessing spatial reality. \"In other words, in the Leibnizian monadology, simple substances are mind-like entities that do not, strictly speaking, exist in space but that represent the universe from a unique perspective.” It is the harmony between the perceptions of the monads which creates what we call substances, but that does not mean the substances are real in and of themselves.\n\nThe \"Monadology\" tried to answer two huge philosophical questions—both studied by Descartes—from a monist point of view. The first is about the nature of reality. The second, about the problem of communication of substances, is related to a common objection to mind-body dualism, namely, the body-soul interaction problem. Thus, Leibniz offered a new solution to the mind-matter interaction problem by positing a pre-established harmony between substances: the body is mere perceptions, which are all contained in a soul's complete concept. The soul and body interact and agree in virtue of the pre-established harmony, maintained by God. Leibniz also drew the relationship between “the kingdom of final causes”, or teleological ones, and “the kingdom of efficient causes”, or mechanical ones, which was not causal, but synchronous. So, monads and matter are only apparently linked, and there is not even any communication between different monads; there is only harmony, pre-established and maintained by God.\n\nLeibniz fought against the Cartesian dualist system in his \"Monadology\" and instead opted for a monist idealism (since substances are all unextended). However, Leibniz was a pluralist in the sense that substances are disseminated in the world in an infinite number. For that reason the monad is an irreducible force, which makes it possible for the bodies to have the characteristics of inertia and impenetrability, and which contains in itself the source of all its actions. Monads are the first elements of every composed thing.\n\nThis theory leads to:\n\n1. Idealism, since it denies things in themselves (besides monads) and multiplies them in different points of view. Monads are “perpetual living mirrors of the universe.”\n\n2. Metaphysical optimism, through the principle of sufficient reason, developed as follows:\n\na) Everything exists according to a reason (by the axiom \"Nothing arises from nothing\");\n\nb) Everything which exists has a sufficient reason to exist;\n\nc) Everything which exists is better than anything nonexistent (by the first point: since it is more rational, it also has more reality), and, consequently, it is the best possible being in the best of all possible worlds (by the axiom: \"That which contains more reality is better than that which contains less reality\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44717093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44717093", "title": "Otto Duintjer", "text": "Otto Duintjer\n\nOtto Dirk Duintjer (born 30 April 1932 in Amsterdam) is a Dutch philosopher. He studied Theology at the Free University in Amsterdam (VU) and the University of Amsterdam, as well as Philosophy at Groningen University. He was an Assistant Professor at Leiden University from 1960 to 1970, where he obtained his doctorate in Philosophy in 1966 (\"cum laude\") with a dissertation entitled \"The Issue of the Transcendental, Especially in Relation to Heidegger and Kant\" (in Dutch).\n\nFrom 1970 to 1987, he was Full Professor of Epistemology and Metaphysics at the University of Amsterdam. From 1987 to his retirement in 1997, he held the chair of \"Philosophy and Spirituality\" at the same university.\n\nIn 2004, Duintjer received an honorary doctorate from the Universiteit voor Humanistiek in Utrecht. He was one of the founding members of the Foundation for Philosophy East and West (Stichting Filosofie Oost-West), which organizes philosophy courses for the general audience, and a long-time member of its Program Board.\n\n1966, \"De vraag naar het transcendentale, vooral in verband met Heidegger en Kant\". Doctoral dissertation Leiden University, Universitaire Pers Leiden.\n\n1967, 'Moeilijkheden en mogelijkheden bij een verscheidenheid van filosofieën', \"Wijsgerig Perspectief\", 7:5, pp. 255–269.\n\n1970, 'Moderne wetenschap en waardevrijheid', \"Algemeen Nederlands Tijdschrift voor Wijsbegeerte\", 62:1, januari, pp. 22–44. Ook in: T. de Boer en A.J.F. Köbben (red.), \"Waarden en wetenschap\". Bilthoven: Ambo, pp. 20–45.\n\n1977, \"Rondom regels—wijsgerige gedachten omtrent regelgeleid gedrag\". Amsterdam/Meppel: Boom. Derde druk: 1985.\n\n1983, 'Produceren en andere wijzen van mens-zijn. Een onderzoek naar uitgangspunten bij Marx die liggen in het verlengde van de overheersende traditie', \"Tijdschrift voor Filosofie\", 45:3, pp. 421–458.\n\n1984, 'Over natuur, vervreemding en heelwording', in W. Achterberg en W. Zweers (red.), \"Milieucrisis en filosofie\". Amsterdam: Ekologische Uitgeverij, pp. 189–207.\n\n1985, 'Spiritualiteit en de maatschappelijke wedren naar eindeloze expansie', \"Civis Mundi\", 24:4, 162-167.\n\n1986, 'De moderne verstrengeling van wetenschap, techniek en industrie als expansief \"Selbstzweck\"', in G.M. Huussen en H.E.S. Woldring (red.), \"Werken met wijsbegeerte: een cultuurprobleem\", Delft: Eburon (Filosofische Reeks van de Centrale interfaculteit, Universiteit van Amsterdam, No. 19), pp. 25-36.\n\n1988a, \"Rondom metafysica. Over 'transcendentie' en de dubbelzinnigheid van metafysica\". Amsterdam: Boom\n\n1988b, \"Hints voor een diagnose. Naar aanleiding van Kant\". Baarn: Ambo.\n\n1988c, 'Techniek en werkelijkheid', in A. Dekker (red.), \"Waarden in onze technische cultuur\". Kampen: Kok (Kamper Cahiers, dl. 62), pp. 8–25.\n\n1988d, 'Het belang van nieuwe spiritualiteit in een expansieve maatschappij', in Bruno Nagel (red.), \"Maken en breken, over produktie en spiritualiteit\". Kampen: Kok Agora, pp. 17–43.\n\n2002, \"Onuitputtelijk is de waarheid\". Budel: Damon.\n\n2007, 'De innerlijke weg: hoezo?' in Theo van Leeuwen en Heidi Muijen (red.), \"De innerlijke weg. Spirituele tradities over verinnerlijking\", Kampen: Ten Have, pp. 18–34.\n\n"}
{"id": "242753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242753", "title": "Philolaus", "text": "Philolaus\n\nPhilolaus (; , \"Philólaos\"; ) was a Greek Pythagorean and pre-Socratic philosopher. He argued that at the foundation of everything is the part played by the limiting and limitless, which combine together in a harmony. He is also credited with originating the theory that the Earth was not the center of the Universe. According to August Böckh (1819), who cites Nicomachus, Philolaus was the successor of Pythagoras.\n\nPhilolaus is variously reported as being born in either Croton, or Tarentum, or Metapontum—all part of Magna Graecia (the name of the coastal areas of Southern Italy on the Tarentine Gulf that were extensively colonized by Greek settlers). It is most likely that he came from Croton. He may have fled the second burning of the Pythagorean meeting-place around 454 BC, after which he migrated to Greece. According to Plato's \"Phaedo\", he was the instructor of Simmias and Cebes at Thebes, around the time the \"Phaedo\" takes place, in 399 BC. This would make him a contemporary of Socrates, and agrees with the statement that Philolaus and Democritus were contemporaries.\n\nThe various reports about his life are scattered among the writings of much later writers and are of dubious value in reconstructing his life. He apparently lived for some time at Heraclea, where he was the pupil of Aresas (maybe Oresas), or (as Plutarch calls him) Arcesus. Diogenes Laërtius is the only authority for the claim that Plato, shortly after the death of Socrates, traveled to Italy where he met with Philolaus and Eurytus. The pupils of Philolaus were said to have included Xenophilus, Phanto, Echecrates, Diocles, and Polymnastus. As to his death, Diogenes Laërtius reports a dubious story that Philolaus was put to death at Croton on account of being suspected of wanting to be the tyrant; a story which Laërtius even took the trouble to put into verse.\n\nDiogenes Laërtius speaks of Philolaus composing one book, but elsewhere he speaks of three books, as do Aulus Gellius and Iamblichus. It might have been one treatise divided into three books. Plato is said to have procured a copy of his book from which, it was later claimed, Plato composed much of his \"Timaeus\". One of the works of Philolaus was called \"On Nature\", which seems to be the same work which Stobaeus calls \"On the World\", and from which he has preserved a series of passages. Other writers refer to a work entitled \"Bacchae\", which may have been another name for the same work, and which may originate from Arignote. However, it has been mentioned that Proclus describes the \"Bacchae\" as a book for teaching theology by means of mathematics.\n\nAccording to in Sir William Smith's \"Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology\" (1870, p. 305):\nAdditionally Charles Peter Mason noted (p. 304):\nHistorians from the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", Chapter \"Philolaus' Book: Genuine Fragments and Testimonia\"), noted the following:\n\nThe book by Philolaus begins with the following:\nRobert Scoon explained Philolaus universe in 1922:\nPhilolaus did away with the ideas of fixed direction in space, and developed one of the first non-geocentric views of the universe. His new way of thinking quite literally revolved around a hypothetical astronomical object he called the Central Fire.\n\nIn Philolaus's system a sphere of the fixed stars, the five planets, the Sun, Moon and Earth, all moved round his Central Fire. According to Aristotle writing in \"Metaphysics\", Philolaus added a tenth unseen body, he called Counter-Earth, as without it there would be only nine revolving bodies, and the Pythagorean number theory required a tenth. However, according to Greek scholar George Burch, Aristotle was lampooning Philolaus's ideas. In reality, Philolaus' ideas predated the idea of spheres by hundreds of years. Nearly two-thousand years later Nicolaus Copernicus would mention in \"De revolutionibus\" that Philolaus already knew about the Earth's revolution around a central fire.\n\nHowever, it has been pointed out that Stobaeus betrays a tendency to confound the dogmas of the early Ionian philosophers, and he occasionally mixes up Platonism with Pythagoreanism.\n\nPhilolaus argued at the foundation of everything is the part played by the ideas of limit and the unlimited. One of the first declarations in the work of Philolaus was that all things in the universe result from a combination of the unlimited and the limiting; for if all things had been unlimited, nothing could have been the object of knowledge. Limiters and unlimiteds are combined together in a harmony (\"harmonia\"):\n\n"}
{"id": "16729798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16729798", "title": "Project 112", "text": "Project 112\n\nProject 112 was a biological and chemical weapon experimentation project conducted by the United States Department of Defense from 1962 to 1973.\n\nThe project started under John F. Kennedy's administration, and was authorized by his Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, as part of a total review of the US military. The name \"Project 112\" refers to this project's number in the 150 project review process authorized by McNamara. Funding and staff were contributed by every branch of the U.S. armed services and intelligence agencies—a euphemism for the Office of Technical Services of the Central Intelligence Agency's Directorate of Science & Technology. Canada and the United Kingdom also participated in some Project 112 activities.\n\nProject 112 primarily concerned the use of aerosols to disseminate biological and chemical agents that could produce \"controlled temporary incapacitation\" (CTI). The test program would be conducted on a large scale at \"extracontinental test sites\" in the Central and South Pacific and Alaska in conjunction with Britain, Canada and Australia.\n\nAt least 50 trials were conducted; of these at least 18 tests involved simulants of biological agents (such as BG), and at least 14 involved chemical agents including sarin and VX, but also tear gas and other simulants. Test sites included Porton Down (UK), Ralston (Canada) and at least 13 US warships; the shipborne trials were collectively known as Shipboard Hazard and Defense—SHAD. The project was coordinated from Deseret Test Center, Utah.\n\nIn January 1961, McNamara sent a directive about chemical and biological weapons to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, urging them to: \"consider all possible applications, including use as an alternative to nuclear weapons. Prepare a plan for the development of an adequate biological and chemical deterrent capability, to include cost estimates, and appraisal of domestic and international political consequences.\" The Joint Chiefs established a Joint Task Force that recommended a five-year plan to be conducted in three phases.\n\nOn April 17, 1963, President Kennedy signed National Security Action Memorandum 235 (NSAM 235) which approved: \n\nProject 112 was a highly classified military testing program which was aimed at both offensive and defensive human, animal, and plant reaction to biological and chemical warfare in various combinations of climate and terrain. The U.S. Army Chemical Corps sponsored the United States portion of an agreement between the U.S., Britain, Canada, and Australia to negotiate, host, conduct, or participate in mutual interest research and development activity and field testing.\n\nThe command structure for the Deseret Test Center, which was organized to oversee Project 112, somewhat bypassed standard Defense Department channels and reported directly to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and US Cabinet consisting of Secretary of Defense, Secretary of State, and to a much smaller extent, the Secretary of Agriculture . Experiments were planned and conducted by the Deseret Test Center and Deseret Chemical Depot at Fort Douglas, Utah. The tests were designed to test the effects of biological weapons and chemical weapons on personnel, plants, animals, insects, toxins, vehicles, ships and equipment. Project 112 and Project SHAD experiments involved unknowing test subjects who did not give informed consent, and took place on land and at sea in various climates and terrains. Experiments involved humans, plants, animals, insects, aircraft, ships, submarines and amphibious vehicles.\n\nThere was a large variety of goals for the proposed tests, for example: \"selected protective devices in preventing penetration of a naval ship by a biological aerosol,\" the impact of \"meteorological conditions on weapon system performance over the open sea,\" the penetrability of jungle vegetation by biological agents, \"the penetration of an arctic inversion\nby a biological aerosol cloud,\" \"the feasibility of an offshore release of Aedes aegypti mosquito as a vector for infectious diseases,\" \"the feasibility of a biological attack against an island complex,\" and the study of the decay rates of biowarfare agents under various conditions.\n\nProject 112 tests used the following agents and simulants: Francisella tularensis, Serratia marcescens, Escherichia coli, Bacillus globii, staphylococcal enterotoxin Type B, Puccinia graminis var. tritici (stem rust of wheat). Agents and simulants were usually dispensed as aerosols using spraying devices or bomblets.\n\nIn May 1965, vulnerability tests in the U.S. using the anthrax simulant \"Bacillus globigii\" were performed in the Washington D.C. area by SOD covert agents. One test was conducted at the Greyhound bus terminal and the other at the north terminal of the National Airport. In these tests the bacteria were released from spray generators hidden in specially built briefcases. SOD also conducted a series of tests in the New York City Subway system between 7 and 10 June 1966 by dropping light bulbs filled with \"Bacillus subtilis var. niger\". In the latter tests, results indicated that a city-level epidemic would have occurred. Local police and transit authorities were not informed of these tests.\n\nProject SHAD, an acronym for Shipboard Hazard and Defense (or sometimes Decontamination), was part of the larger program called Project 112, which was conducted during the 1960s. Project SHAD encompassed tests designed to identify U.S. warships' vulnerabilities to attacks with chemical or biological warfare agents and to develop procedures to respond to such attacks while maintaining a war-fighting capability. The Department of Defense (DoD) states that Project 112 was initiated out of concern for the ability of the United States to protect and defend against potential CB threats.<ref name=\"112/SHAD\"></ref> Project 112 consisted of both land-based and sea-based tests. The sea-based tests, called Project SHAD were primarily launched from other ships such as the USS Granville S. Hall (YAG-40) and USS George Eastman (YAG-39), Army tugboats, submarines, or fighter aircraft and was designed to identify U.S. warships' vulnerabilities to attacks with chemical or biological warfare agents and to develop decontamination and other methods to counter such attacks while maintaining a war-fighting capability. The classified information related to SHAD was not completely cataloged or located in one facility. Furthermore, The Deseret Test Center was closed in the 1970s and the search for 40-year-old documents and records kept by different military services in different locations was a challenge to researchers. A fact sheet was developed for each test that was conducted and when a test cancellation was not documented, a cancellation analysis was developed outlining the logic used to presume that the test had been cancelled.\n\nThe existence of Project 112 (along with the related Project SHAD) was categorically denied by the military until May 2000, when a CBS Evening News investigative report produced dramatic revelations about the tests. This report caused the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to launch an extensive investigation of the experiments, and reveal to the affected personnel their exposure to toxins.\n\nRevelations concerning Project SHAD were first exposed by independent producer and investigative journalist Eric Longabardi. Longabardi's 6-year investigation into the still secret program began in early 1994. It ultimately resulted in a series of investigative reports produced by him, which were broadcast on the CBS Evening News in May 2000. After the broadcast of these exclusive reports, the Pentagon and Veteran's Administration opened their own ongoing investigations into the long classified program. In 2002, Congressional hearings on Project SHAD, in both the Senate and House, further shed media attention on the program. In 2002, a class action federal lawsuit was filed on behalf of the US sailors exposed in the testing. Additional actions, including a multi-year medical study was conducted by National Academy of Sciences/Institute of Medicine to assess the potential medical harm caused to the thousands of unwitting US Navy sailors, civilians, and others who were exposed in the secret testing. The results of that study were finally released in May 2007.\n\nBecause most of the participants that were involved with Project 112 and SHAD were unaware of any tests being done, no effort was made to ensure the informed consent of the military personnel. The US Department of Defense (DoD) conducted testing of agents in other countries that were considered too unethical to perform within the continental United States. Until 1998, the Department of Defense stated officially that Project SHAD did not exist. Because the DoD refused to acknowledge the program, surviving test subjects have been unable to obtain disability payments for health issues related to the project. US Representative Mike Thompson said of the program and the DoD's effort to conceal it, \"They told me – they said, but don't worry about it, we only used simulants. And my first thought was, well, you've lied to these guys for 40 years, you've lied to me for a couple of years. It would be a real leap of faith for me to believe that now you're telling me the truth.\"\n\nThe Department of Veterans Affairs commenced a three-year study comparing known SHAD-affected veterans to veterans of similar ages who were not involved in any way with SHAD or Project 112. The study cost approximately 3 million US Dollars, and results are being compiled for future release. DoD has committed to providing the VA with the relevant information it needs to settle benefits claims as quickly and efficiently as possible and to evaluate and treat veterans who were involved in those tests. This required analyzing historical documents recording the planning and execution of Project 112/SHAD tests.\n\nThe released historical information about Project 112 from DoD consists of summary fact sheets rather than original documents or maintained federal information. As of 2003, 28 fact sheets have been released, focusing on the Deseret Test Center in Dugway, Utah, which was built entirely for Project 112/SHAD and was closed after the project was finished in 1973.\n\nOriginal records are missing or incomplete. For example, a 91-meter aerosol test tower was sprayed by an F-4E with \"aerosols\" on Ursula Island in the Philippines and appears in released original Project SHAD documentation but without a fact sheet or further explanation or disclosure as to the nature of the test that was conducted or even what the test was called.\n\nAuthor Sheldon H. Harris researched the history of Japanese Biological warfare and the American cover-up extensively. Harris and other scholars found that U.S. intelligence authorities had seized the Japanese researchers' archive after the technical information was provided by Japan. The information was transferred in an arrangement that exchanged keeping the information a secret and not pursuing war crimes charges. \nThe arrangement with the United States concerning Japanese WMD research provided extensive Japanese technical information in exchange for not pursuing certain charges and also allowed Japan's government to deny knowledge of the use of these weapons by Japan's military in China during World War II. German scientists in Europe also skipped war crimes charges and went to work as U.S. employed intelligence agents and technical experts in an arrangement known as Operation Paperclip.\n\nThe U.S. would not cooperate when the Soviet Union attempted to pursue war crimes charges against the Japanese. General Douglas MacArthur denied the U.S. Military had any captured records on Japan's military biological program. \"The U.S. denial was absolutely misleading but technically correct as the Japanese records on biological warfare were then in the custody of U.S intelligence agencies rather than in possession of the military\". A formerly top secret report by the U.S. War Department at the close of World War II, clearly stipulates that the United States exchanged Japan's military technical information on BW experimentation against humans, plants, and animals in exchange for war crimes immunity. The War department notes that, \"The voluntary imparting of this BW information may serve as a forerunner for obtaining much additional information in other fields of research.\" Armed with Nazi and Imperial Japanese biowarfare know-how, the United States government and its intelligence agencies began conducting widespread field testing of potential CBW capabilities on American cities, crops, and livestock.\n\nIt is known that Japanese scientists were working at the direction of the Japan's military and intelligence agencies on advanced research projects of the United States including America's covert biomedical and biowarfare programs from the end of World War II through at least the 1960s.\n\nThe U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO) in September 1994 found that between 1940 and 1974, DOD and other national security agencies studied \"hundreds, perhaps thousands\" of weapons tests and experiments involving large area coverage of hazardous substances. The report states:\n\nInnocent civilians in cities, on subways and at airports were sprayed with disease carrying mosquitoes, \"aerosols,\" containing bacteria, viruses, or exposed to a variety of dangerous chemical, biological and radiological agents as well as stimulant agents that were later found to be more dangerous than first thought.\n\nPrecise information on the number of tests, experiments, and participants is not available and the exact number of veterans exposed will probably never be known.\n\nOn December 2, 2002, The President signed Public Law 107–314 or the \"Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2003\" which included Section 709 entitled \"Disclosure of Information on Project 112 to Department of Veterans Affairs.\" Section 709 required disclosure of information concerning Project 112 to United States Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA) and the General Accounting Office (GAO). \nPublic Law 107–314 required the identification and release of not only Project 112 information to VA but also that of any other projects or tests where a service member might have been exposed to a CBW agent and directed The Secretary of Defense to work with veterans and veterans service organizations to identify the other projects or tests conducted by the Department of Defense that may have exposed members of the Armed Forces to chemical or biological agents.\nHowever, the issues surrounding the test program were not resolved by the passage of the law and \"the Pentagon was accused of continuing to withhold documents on Cold War chemical and biological weapons tests that used unsuspecting veterans as \"human samplers\" after reporting to Congress it had released all medically relevant information.\"\n\nA 2004 GAO report revealed that almost all participants who were identified from Project 112—-94 percent-were from ship-based tests of Project SHAD that comprised only about one-third of the total number of tests conducted. \nDoD informed VA that Project 112/SHAD and Mustard Gas programs have been officially closed as of June 2008 while Edgewood Arsenal testing remains open as DoD continues to identify Veterans who were \"test participants\" in the program. DoD's current effort to identify Cold War exposures began in 2004 and is endeavoring to identify all non-Project 112/SHAD veterans exposed to chemical and biological substances due to testing and accidents from World War II through 1975.\n\n\"America has a sad legacy of weapons testing in the Pacific...people were removed from their homes and their islands used as targets.\" While this statement during congressional testimony during the Department of Defense's inquiry into Project 112 was referring a completely different and separate testing program, there are common concerns about potential adverse health impacts and the timely release of information. Congress was unsatisfied with the DOD's unwillingness to disclose information relating to the scope of America's chemical and biological warfare past and provide the information necessary to assess and deal with the risks to public safety and U.S. service members' health that CBW testing may have posed or continue to pose.\n\nA Government Accounting Office May 2004 report, \"Chemical and Biological Defense: DOD Needs to Continue to Collect and Provide Information on Tests and Potentially Exposed Personnel\" states:\n\nOn appeal in Vietnam Veterans of America v. Central Intelligence Agency, a panel majority held in July 2015 that Army Regulation 70-25 (AR 70-25) created an independent duty to provide ongoing medical care to veterans who many years ago participated in U.S. chemical and biological testing programs. Prior to the finding that the Army is required to provide medical care long after a veteran last participated in a testing program was a 2012 finding that the Army has an ongoing duty to seek out and provide \"notice\" to former test participants of any new information that could potentially affect their health. The case was initially brought forward by concerned veterans who participated in the Edgewood Arsenal human experiments.\n\nCorroborating suspicions of Project 112 activities on Okinawa include \"An Organizational History of the 267th Chemical company\", which was made available by the U.S. Army Heritage and Education Center to Yellow Medicine County, Minnesota, Veteran's Service Officer Michelle Gatz in 2012. According to the document, the 267th Chemical Company was activated on Okinawa on December 1, 1962 as the 267th Chemical Platoon (SVC) was billeted at Chibana Depot. During this deployment, \"Unit personnel were actively engaged in preparing RED HAT area, site 2 for the receipt and storage of first increment items, [shipment] \"YBA\", DOD Project 112.\" The company received further shipments, code named YBB and YBF, which according to declassified documents also included sarin, VX, and mustard gas.\n\nThe late author Sheldon H. Harris in his book \"Factories of Death: Japanese Biological Warfare, 1932–1945, and the American cover up\" wrote about Project 112:\n\nThe U.S. government has previously disclosed information on chemical and biological warfare tests it held at sea and on land yet new-found documents show that the U.S. Army tested biological weapons in Okinawa in the early 1960s, when the prefecture was still under U.S. rule. During these tests, conducted at least a dozen times between 1961 and 1962, rice blast fungus was released by the Army using \"a midget duster to release inoculum alongside fields in Okinawa and Taiwan,\" in order to measure effective dosages requirements at different distances and the negative effects on crop production. Rice blast or Pyricularia oryzae produces a mycotoxin called Tenuazonic acid which has been implicated in human and animal disease.\n\nA number of studies, reports and briefings have been done on chemical and biological warfare exposures. A list of the major documents is provided below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18731794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18731794", "title": "Pure thought", "text": "Pure thought\n\nPure thought is an English translation of an expression originally attributed to Kant and Hegel. Their usage of the German counterpart revolved around the question of whether pure thought could exist without an object or some material. Today, more popular uses exist. That \"Pure Thought\" could existent and is part of the evidentiary change. The usage here is that pure thought is simply a process, another term for thought experiment. \n"}
{"id": "25895678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25895678", "title": "Ralph Johnson (philosopher)", "text": "Ralph Johnson (philosopher)\n\nRalph Henry Johnson (born 1940) is a Canadian American philosopher, born in Detroit, Michigan. Johnson has been credited as one of the founding members of the informal logic movement in North America, along with J. Anthony Blair who co-published one of the movement's most influential texts, “Logical Self-Defense,” with Johnson. Alongside its founder, Blair, Johnson co-directed the Centre for Research in Reasoning, Argumentation, and Rhetoric at the University of Windsor. As Johnson and Blair write in the preface to the newest edition of Logical Self-Defense on the influential nature of the text:\n\n\"We might note that the theoretical perspective introduced in Logical Self-Defense has proved quite influential among textbook authors. It is to be found in modified form in A Practical Study of Argument by Trudy Govier, in Attacking Faulty Reasoning by T. Edward Damer, in Logic in Everyday Life and Open Minds and Everyday Reasoning by Zachary Seech, in Thinking Logically by James B. Freeman, and in Good Reasoning Matters by Leo Groarke and Christopher W. Tindale.\"\n\nHe earned an Honors Bachelor of Arts at Xavier University and received his doctorate in philosophy from the University of Notre Dame in 1972. He has been a University Professor and University Professor emeritus at the University of Windsor, Ontario, Canada, where he had taught since 1966. He retired in Fall 2006 after 39 years, during which he served two terms as Head of Department. Ralph H. Johnson was a co-founder of the Newsletter of Informal Logic which has since become the Journal of Informal Logic in 1985, he also served as its co-editor along with J. Anthony Blair since its inception.\n\nHe has been a co-chair for the International Symposium on Informal Logic in Windsor in 1978, 1983, and 1989. Ralph H. Johnson has lectured and published widely on informal logic, fallacy theory, argumentation, and critical thinking. He is a founding member and has been a previous member of the Executive Committee of the Association for Informal Logic and Critical Thinking (AILACT); as well as of the National Council for Excellence in Critical Thinking (NCECT), and of the Canadian Research Group on Argumentation (Carga). In 2004 he co-founded the Network for the Study of Reasoning, a cluster of Canadian experts researching the theory and its applications of reasoning and argument. He has given workshop presentations and has been a consultant on informal logic and critical thinking across the United States and Canada.\n\nAccording to the University of Windsor’s website, “His articles have appeared in such journals as American Philosophical Quarterly, Synthese, Argumentation, Philosophy and Rhetoric and Informal Logic. In 1996, a collection of his articles and papers was published by Vale Press under the title The Rise of Informal Logic. In 2000, his book, Manifest Rationality: A Pragmatic Study of Argument, was published by Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. Johnson has conducted seminars and workshops on informal logic and critical thinking across North America and in Europe. In 1993, Johnson received a 3M Teaching Fellowship for outstanding university teachers, one of ten such awards conferred that year in Canada. In 1994, he was awarded the rank of University Professor by the University of Windsor. In 2000, he was awarded the Distinguished Research Award by the International Society for the Study of Argumentation. In 2003, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada. In 2005, he received the Career Achievement Award from the University of Windsor. Johnson is listed in Who’s Who in Canada.”\n\nCurrently, Johnson is working on a book about Dialectical Adequacy, which will be a follow up to his recently published work Manifest Rationality (2000).\n\nFrom Johnson’s website, “I love to read, especially contemporary fiction. Among my favourite authors: John Updike, Alistair MacLeod, Joan Barfoot, Michael Connelly, Robert B. Parker. I love the plays of Shakespeare (especially King Lear), and attend the plays at Stratford every year. This year, I look forward to seeing Oliver and Much Ado about Nothing.\nI love to listen to music, especially classical. Currently I am in a Chopin phase. I also am drawn to the music of Bach, Beethoven, Haydn, Schubert and Dvorak. I belong to The Mankind Project (www.mkp.org) — a worldwide organization dedicated to calling men to consciousness and lives of service. I serve as an Elder and Board member in our local community. I exercise (jog, walk or bike) almost everyday. I have been married to my wife Maggie for 38 years; have three children (Mary, Sean and Matthew) and two grandchildren— Brandin, 11, and Ivy Grace b. January 27, 2006!”\n\nAs Johnson explains both in Logical Self-Defense as well as his journal article Making Sense of “Informal Logic,” that Informal Logic is the philosophical practice of understanding and evaluating natural language argumentation. Here fallacies are used in order to evaluate arguments. However, more simply the idea is to evaluate arguments based upon three essential criteria, again as explained in both Making Sense of “Informal Logic,” and more thoroughly explained in Logical Self-Defense, the premises of arguments must be relevant to the conclusion, sufficient to support it, and acceptable to the audience. In this approach to logic, fallacies such as the straw man, red herring etc. point to a deficiency in the premises in one of these three criteria.\n\nJohnson and Blair also place emphasis on how to identify arguments in everyday life, so that evaluators do not misinterpret the author’s intention. In this way Logical Self-Defense identifies several different ways of interpreting arguments and their ‘look-alikes’. For instance Johnson and Blair explain the distinctions between mere opinion, proto-argument, argument, case, and explanation as well as provide criteria for helping to identify which is which, including: context, verbal cues and logical structure.\n\nIn his article “Charity Begins at Home” in Informal Logic Johnson combines and creates unified form of the ‘Principle of Charity’ which he found to exist in four other forms in the following works: Thomas’s Practical Reasoning in Natural Language (1973), Baum’s Logic (1975) and in Scriven’s Reasoning (1976). In doing so Johnson created a more developed ‘Principle of Charity’ which Informal Logicians could reference.\n\nAccordingly, in this article Section II attempts to unify these four versions by making one the foundation, while the others work as its corollaries. Then, after creating a better account of the ‘Principle of Charity’ Johnson spends Section III of the article addresses some of the issues involved in the application of the ‘Principle of Charity’ and finally Section IV addresses a proposed restriction for the use of the ‘Principle of Charity’.\n\nIn his article “The Principle of Vulnerability” in Informal Logic seeks to offer defence to the principle that all arguments should be considered susceptible to criticisms. As such Johnson argues that the arguer of an argument should not seek to “immunize” their argument from criticism. The article also takes considerations both in support of, and opposed to the principle into account.\n\nIn this article one of the more notable ideas presented is the notion of ‘manifest rationality’ which Johnson described in this way:\n\nThe practice (of arguing) is characterized by a trait I call manifest rationality. In the practice of argumentation, rationality is not merely the inner reality but also the outward appearance of the practice. The practice must not just be rational; it\nmust also appear rational. This is why the Arguer is expected to respond to objections and criticisms from others, and not ignore them or sweep them under the carpet. It's not just that sweeping them aside would not be rational and hence\nnot be in keeping with the spirit of the practice. It’s that it would be such an obvious violation of it—and it would be seen to be such.\n"}
{"id": "7414016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7414016", "title": "Richard Brandt", "text": "Richard Brandt\n\nRichard Booker Brandt (17 October 1910 – 10 September 1997) was an American philosopher working in the utilitarian tradition in moral philosophy. \n\nBrandt was originally educated at Denison University, a Baptist institution he was shepherded to by his minister father, and graduated in 1930 with majors in philosophy and classical studies. In 1933 he earned another B.A., this time in the philosophy of religion, from Cambridge University. He received his Ph.D. in Philosophy from Yale University in 1936. He taught at Swarthmore College before becoming Chair of the Department of Philosophy the University of Michigan in 1964, where he taught with Charles Stevenson and William K. Frankena (1908–1994) and spent the remainder of his career. The expressivist moral philosopher Allan Gibbard has mentioned his great intellectual debt to Brandt.\n\nBrandt gave the John Locke Lectures at Oxford University in 1974-75, material that later appeared in \"A Theory of the Good and the Right\" (1979).\n\nBrandt wrote \"Ethical Theory\" (1959), an influential textbook in the field. He defended a version of rule utilitarianism in \"Toward a credible form of utilitarianism\" (1963) and performed cultural-anthropological studies in \"Hopi Ethics\" (1954). In \"A Theory of the Good and the Right\", Brandt proposed a \"reforming definition\" of rationality, that one is rational if one's preferences are such that they survive cognitive psychotherapy in terms of all relevant information and logical criticism. He argued also that the morality such rational persons would accept would be a form of utilitarianism.\n\nBrandt believed that moral rules should be considered in sets which he called moral codes. A moral code is justified when it is the optimal code that, if adopted and followed, would maximise the public good more than any alternative code would. The codes may be society-wide standards or special codes for a profession like engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "174415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174415", "title": "Roland Barthes", "text": "Roland Barthes\n\nRoland Gérard Barthes (; ; 12 November 1915 – 26 March 1980) was a French literary theorist, philosopher, linguist, critic, and semiotician. Barthes' ideas explored a diverse range of fields and he influenced the development of many schools of theory, including structuralism, semiotics, social theory, design theory, anthropology, and post-structuralism.\n\nRoland Barthes was born on 12 November in the town of Cherbourg in Normandy. His father, naval officer Louis Barthes, was killed in a battle during World War I in the North Sea before Barthes' first birthday. His mother, Henriette Barthes, and his aunt and grandmother raised him in the village of Urt and the city of Bayonne. When Barthes was eleven, his family moved to Paris, though his attachment to his provincial roots would remain strong throughout his life.\n\nBarthes showed great promise as a student and spent the period from 1935 to 1939 at the Sorbonne, where he earned a \"licence\" in classical literature. He was plagued by ill health throughout this period, suffering from tuberculosis, which often had to be treated in the isolation of sanatoria. His repeated physical breakdowns disrupted his academic career, affecting his studies and his ability to take qualifying examinations. They also exempted him from military service during World War II.\n\nHis life from 1939 to 1948 was largely spent obtaining a \"licence\" in grammar and philology, publishing his first papers, taking part in a medical study, and continuing to struggle with his health. He received a \"\" (roughly equivalent to an MA by thesis) from the University of Paris in 1941 for his work in Greek tragedy.\n\nIn 1948, he returned to purely academic work, gaining numerous short-term positions at institutes in France, Romania, and Egypt. During this time, he contributed to the leftist Parisian paper \"Combat\", out of which grew his first full-length work, \"Writing Degree Zero\" (1953).\n\nIn 1952, Barthes settled at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, where he studied lexicology and sociology. During his seven-year period there, he began to write a popular series of bi-monthly essays for the magazine \"Les Lettres Nouvelles\", in which he dismantled myths of popular culture (gathered in the \"Mythologies\" collection that was published in 1957). Consisting of fifty-four short essays, mostly written between 1954–1956, \"Mythologies\" were acute reflections of French popular culture ranging from an analysis on soap detergents to a dissection of popular wrestling. Knowing little English, Barthes taught at Middlebury College in 1957 and befriended the future English translator of much of his work, Richard Howard, that summer in New York City.\n\nBarthes spent the early 1960s exploring the fields of semiology and structuralism, chairing various faculty positions around France, and continuing to produce more full-length studies. Many of his works challenged traditional academic views of literary criticism and of renowned figures of literature. His unorthodox thinking led to a conflict with a well-known Sorbonne professor of literature, Raymond Picard, who attacked the French New Criticism (a label that he inaccurately applied to Barthes) for its obscurity and lack of respect towards France's literary roots. Barthes' rebuttal in \"Criticism and Truth\" (1966) accused the old, bourgeois criticism of a lack of concern with the finer points of language and of selective ignorance towards challenging theories, such as Marxism.\n\nBy the late 1960s, Barthes had established a reputation for himself. He traveled to the US and Japan, delivering a presentation at Johns Hopkins University. During this time, he wrote his best-known work, the 1967 essay \"The Death of the Author,\" which, in light of the growing influence of Jacques Derrida's deconstruction, would prove to be a transitional piece in its investigation of the logical ends of structuralist thought.\n\nBarthes continued to contribute with Philippe Sollers to the avant-garde literary magazine \"Tel Quel\", which was developing similar kinds of theoretical inquiry to that pursued in Barthes' writings. In 1970, Barthes produced what many consider to be his most prodigious work, the dense, critical reading of Balzac's \"Sarrasine\" entitled \"S/Z\". Throughout the 1970s, Barthes continued to develop his literary criticism; he developed new ideals of textuality and novelistic neutrality. In 1971, he served as visiting professor at the University of Geneva.\n\nIn 1975 he wrote an autobiography titled \"Roland Barthes\" and in 1977 he was elected to the chair of Sémiologie Littéraire at the Collège de France. In the same year, his mother, Henriette Barthes, to whom he had been devoted, died, aged 85. They had lived together for 60 years. The loss of the woman who had raised and cared for him was a serious blow to Barthes. His last major work, \"Camera Lucida\", is partly an essay about the nature of photography and partly a meditation on photographs of his mother. The book contains many reproductions of photographs, though none of them are of Henriette.\n\nOn 25 February 1980, Roland Barthes was knocked down by a laundry van while walking home through the streets of Paris. One month later, on March 26, he died from the chest injuries he sustained in that accident.\n\nBarthes' earliest ideas reacted to the trend of existentialist philosophy that was prominent in France during the 1940s, specifically to the figurehead of existentialism, Jean-Paul Sartre. Sartre's \"What Is Literature?\" (1947) expresses a disenchantment both with established forms of writing and more experimental, avant-garde forms, which he feels alienate readers. Barthes’ response was to try to discover that which may be considered unique and original in writing. In \"Writing Degree Zero\" (1953), Barthes argues that conventions inform both language and style, rendering neither purely creative. Instead, form, or what Barthes calls \"writing\" (the specific way an individual chooses to manipulate conventions of style for a desired effect), is the unique and creative act. A writer's form is vulnerable to becoming a convention, however, once it has been made available to the public. This means that creativity is an ongoing process of continual change and reaction.\n\nIn \"Michelet\", a critical analysis of the French historian Jules Michelet, Barthes developed these notions, applying them to a broader range of fields. He argued that Michelet's views of history and society are obviously flawed. In studying his writings, he continued, one should not seek to learn from Michelet's claims; rather, one should maintain a critical distance and learn from his errors, since understanding how and why his thinking is flawed will show more about his period of history than his own observations. Similarly, Barthes felt that avant-garde writing should be praised for its maintenance of just such a distance between its audience and itself. In presenting an obvious artificiality rather than making claims to great subjective truths, Barthes argued, avant-garde writers ensure that their audiences maintain an objective perspective. In this sense, Barthes believed that art should be critical and should interrogate the world, rather than seek to explain it, as Michelet had done.\n\nBarthes' many monthly contributions, collected in his \"Mythologies\" (1957), frequently interrogated specific cultural materials in order to expose how bourgeois society asserted its values through them. For example, the portrayal of wine in French society as a robust and healthy habit is a bourgeois ideal that is contradicted by certain realities (i.e., that wine can be unhealthy and inebriating). He found semiotics, the study of signs, useful in these interrogations. Barthes explained that these bourgeois cultural myths were \"second-order signs,\" or \"connotations.\" A picture of a full, dark bottle is a signifier that relates to a specific signified: a fermented, alcoholic beverage. However, the bourgeoisie relate it to a new signified: the idea of healthy, robust, relaxing experience. Motivations for such manipulations vary, from a desire to sell products to a simple desire to maintain the status quo. These insights brought Barthes in line with similar Marxist theory. Barthes used the term \"myth\" while analyzing the popular, consumer culture of post-war France in order to reveal that \"objects were organized into meaningful relationships via narratives that expressed collective cultural values.\"\n\nIn \"The Fashion System\" Barthes showed how this adulteration of signs could easily be translated into words. In this work he explained how in the fashion world any word could be loaded with idealistic bourgeois emphasis. Thus, if popular fashion says that a ‘blouse’ is ideal for a certain situation or ensemble, this idea is immediately naturalized and accepted as truth, even though the actual sign could just as easily be interchangeable with ‘skirt’, ‘vest’ or any number of combinations. In the end Barthes' \"Mythologies\" became absorbed into bourgeois culture, as he found many third parties asking him to comment on a certain cultural phenomenon, being interested in his control over his readership. This turn of events caused him to question the overall utility of demystifying culture for the masses, thinking it might be a fruitless attempt, and drove him deeper in his search for individualistic meaning in art.\n\nAs Barthes' work with structuralism began to flourish around the time of his debates with Picard, his investigation of structure focused on revealing the importance of language in writing, which he felt was overlooked by old criticism. Barthes' \"Introduction to the Structural Analysis of Narratives\" is concerned with examining the correspondence between the structure of a sentence and that of a larger narrative, thus allowing narrative to be viewed along linguistic lines. Barthes split this work into three hierarchical levels: ‘functions’, ‘actions’ and ‘narrative’. ‘Functions’ are the elementary pieces of a work, such as a single descriptive word that can be used to identify a character. That character would be an ‘action’, and consequently one of the elements that make up the narrative. Barthes was able to use these distinctions to evaluate how certain key ‘functions’ work in forming characters. For example, key words like ‘dark’, ‘mysterious’ and ‘odd’, when integrated together, formulate a specific kind of character or ‘action’. By breaking down the work into such fundamental distinctions Barthes was able to judge the degree of realism given functions have in forming their actions and consequently with what authenticity a narrative can be said to reflect on reality. Thus, his structuralist theorizing became another exercise in his ongoing attempts to dissect and expose the misleading mechanisms of bourgeois culture.\n\nWhile Barthes found structuralism to be a useful tool and believed that discourse of literature could be formalized, he did not believe it could become a strict scientific endeavour. In the late 1960s, radical movements were taking place in literary criticism. The post-structuralist movement and the deconstructionism of Jacques Derrida were testing the bounds of the structuralist theory that Barthes' work exemplified. Derrida identified the flaw of structuralism as its reliance on a transcendental signifier; a symbol of constant, universal meaning would be essential as an orienting point in such a closed off system. This is to say that without some regular standard of measurement, a system of criticism that references nothing outside of the actual work itself could never prove useful. But since there are no symbols of constant and universal significance, the entire premise of structuralism as a means of evaluating writing (or anything) is hollow.\n\nSuch thought led Barthes to consider the limitations not just of signs and symbols, but also of Western culture's dependency on beliefs of constancy and ultimate standards. He travelled to Japan in 1966 where he wrote \"Empire of Signs\" (published in 1970), a meditation on Japanese culture's contentment in the absence of a search for a transcendental signifier. He notes that in Japan there is no emphasis on a great focus point by which to judge all other standards, describing the centre of Tokyo, the Emperor's Palace, as not a great overbearing entity, but a silent and nondescript presence, avoided and unconsidered. As such, Barthes reflects on the ability of signs in Japan to exist for their own merit, retaining only the significance naturally imbued by their signifiers. Such a society contrasts greatly to the one he dissected in \"Mythologies\", which was revealed to be always asserting a greater, more complex significance on top of the natural one.\n\nIn the wake of this trip Barthes wrote what is largely considered to be his best-known work, the essay \"The Death of the Author\" (1968). Barthes saw the notion of the author, or authorial authority, in the criticism of literary text as the forced projection of an ultimate meaning of the text. By imagining an ultimate intended meaning of a piece of literature one could infer an ultimate explanation for it. But Barthes points out that the great proliferation of meaning in language and the unknowable state of the author's mind makes any such ultimate realization impossible. As such, the whole notion of the ‘knowable text’ acts as little more than another delusion of Western bourgeois culture. Indeed, the idea of giving a book or poem an ultimate end coincides with the notion of making it consumable, something that can be used up and replaced in a capitalist market. \"The Death of the Author\" is considered to be a post-structuralist work, since it moves past the conventions of trying to quantify literature, but others see it as more of a transitional phase for Barthes in his continuing effort to find significance in culture outside of the bourgeois norms . Indeed, the notion of the author being irrelevant was already a factor of structuralist thinking.\n\nSince Barthes contends that there can be no originating anchor of meaning in the possible intentions of the author, he considers what other sources of meaning or significance can be found in literature. He concludes that since meaning can’t come from the author, it must be actively created by the reader through a process of textual analysis. In his \"S/Z\" (1970), Barthes applies this notion in an analysis of a short story by Balzac called \"Sarrasine\". The end result was a reading that established five major codes for determining various kinds of significance, with numerous lexias throughout the text – a \"lexia\" here being defined as a unit of the text chosen arbitrarily (to remain methodologically unbiased as possible) for further analysis. The codes led him to define the story as having a capacity for plurality of meaning, limited by its dependence upon strictly sequential elements (such as a definite timeline that has to be followed by the reader and thus restricts their freedom of analysis). From this project Barthes concludes that an ideal text is one that is reversible, or open to the greatest variety of independent interpretations and not restrictive in meaning. A text can be reversible by avoiding the restrictive devices that \"Sarrasine\" suffered from such as strict timelines and exact definitions of events. He describes this as the difference between the writerly text, in which the reader is active in a creative process, and a readerly text in which they are restricted to just reading. The project helped Barthes identify what it was he sought in literature: an openness for interpretation.\n\nIn the late 1970s Barthes was increasingly concerned with the conflict of two types of language: that of popular culture, which he saw as limiting and pigeonholing in its titles and descriptions, and neutral, which he saw as open and noncommittal. He called these two conflicting modes the Doxa and the Para-doxa. While Barthes had shared sympathies with Marxist thought in the past (or at least parallel criticisms), he felt that, despite its anti-ideological stance, Marxist theory was just as guilty of using violent language with assertive meanings, as was bourgeois literature. In this way they were both Doxa and both culturally assimilating. As a reaction to this he wrote \"The Pleasure of the Text\" (1975), a study that focused on a subject matter he felt was equally outside the realm of both conservative society and militant leftist thinking: hedonism. By writing about a subject that was rejected by both social extremes of thought, Barthes felt he could avoid the dangers of the limiting language of the Doxa. The theory he developed out of this focus claimed that, while reading for pleasure is a kind of social act, through which the reader exposes him/herself to the ideas of the writer, the final cathartic climax of this pleasurable reading, which he termed the bliss in reading or jouissance, is a point in which one becomes lost within the text. This loss of self within the text or immersion in the text, signifies a final impact of reading that is experienced outside the social realm and free from the influence of culturally associative language and is thus neutral with regard to social progress.\n\nDespite this newest theory of reading, Barthes remained concerned with the difficulty of achieving truly neutral writing, which required an avoidance of any labels that might carry an implied meaning or identity towards a given object. Even carefully crafted neutral writing could be taken in an assertive context through the incidental use of a word with a loaded social context. Barthes felt his past works, like \"Mythologies\", had suffered from this. He became interested in finding the best method for creating neutral writing, and he decided to try to create a novelistic form of rhetoric that would not seek to impose its meaning on the reader. One product of this endeavor was \"\" in 1977, in which he presents the fictionalized reflections of a lover seeking to identify and be identified by an anonymous amorous other. The unrequited lover's search for signs by which to show and receive love makes evident illusory myths involved in such a pursuit. The lover's attempts to assert himself into a false, ideal reality is involved in a delusion that exposes the contradictory logic inherent in such a search. Yet at the same time the novelistic character is a sympathetic one, and is thus open not just to criticism but also understanding from the reader. The end result is one that challenges the reader's views of social constructs of love, without trying to assert any definitive theory of meaning.\n\nThroughout his career, Barthes had an interest in photography and its potential to communicate actual events. Many of his monthly myth articles in the 50s had attempted to show how a photographic image could represent implied meanings and thus be used by bourgeois culture to infer 'naturalistic truths'. But he still considered the photograph to have a unique potential for presenting a completely real representation of the world. When his mother, Henriette Barthes, died in 1977 he began writing \"Camera Lucida\" as an attempt to explain the unique significance a picture of her as a child carried for him. Reflecting on the relationship between the obvious symbolic meaning of a photograph (which he called the studium) and that which is purely personal and dependent on the individual, that which ‘pierces the viewer’ (which he called the punctum), Barthes was troubled by the fact that such distinctions collapse when personal significance is communicated to others and can have its symbolic logic rationalized. Barthes found the solution to this fine line of personal meaning in the form of his mother's picture. Barthes explained that a picture creates a falseness in the illusion of ‘what is’, where ‘what was’ would be a more accurate description. As had been made physical through Henriette Barthes' death, her childhood photograph is evidence of ‘what has ceased to be’. Instead of making reality solid, it reminds us of the world's ever changing nature. Because of this there is something uniquely personal contained in the photograph of Barthes' mother that cannot be removed from his subjective state: the recurrent feeling of loss experienced whenever he looks at it. As one of his final works before his death, \"Camera Lucida\" was both an ongoing reflection on the complicated relations between subjectivity, meaning and cultural society as well as a touching dedication to his mother and description of the depth of his grief.\n\nA posthumous collection of essays was published in 1987 by François Wahl, \"Incidents\". It contains fragments from his journals: his \"Soirées de Paris\" (a 1979 extract from his erotic diary of life in Paris); an earlier diary he kept (his erotic encounters with boys in Morocco); and \"Light of the Sud Ouest\" (his childhood memories of rural French life). In November 2007, Yale University Press published a new translation into English (by Richard Howard) of Barthes' little known work \"What is Sport\". This work bears a considerable resemblance to \"Mythologies\" and was originally commissioned by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation as the text for a documentary film directed by Hubert Aquin.\n\nIn February 2009, Éditions du Seuil published \"Journal de deuil\" (Journal of Mourning), based on Barthes' files written from 26 November 1977 (the day following his mother's death) up to 15 September 1979, intimate notes on his terrible loss:\nHe grieved his mother's death for the rest of his life: \"Do not say mourning. It's too psychoanalytic. I'm not in mourning. I'm suffering.\" and \"In the corner of my room where she had been bedridden, where she had died and where I now sleep, in the wall where her headboard had stood against I hanged an icon—not out of faith. And I always put some flowers on a table. I do not wish to travel anymore so that I may stay here and prevent the flowers from withering away.\"\n\nIn 2012 the book \"Travels in China\" was published. It consists of his notes from a three-week trip to China he undertook with a group from the literary journal Tel Quel in 1974. The experience left him somewhat disappointed, as he found China \"not at all exotic, not at all disorienting\".\n\nRoland Barthes' incisive criticism contributed to the development of theoretical schools such as structuralism, semiotics, and post-structuralism. While his influence is mainly found in these theoretical fields with which his work brought him into contact, it is also felt in every field concerned with the representation of information and models of communication, including computers, photography, music, and literature. One consequence of Barthes' breadth of focus is that his legacy includes no following of thinkers dedicated to modeling themselves after him. The fact that Barthes’ work was ever adapting and refuting notions of stability and constancy means there is no canon of thought within his theory to model one's thoughts upon, and thus no \"Barthesism\".\n\n\"Readerly\" and \"writerly\" are terms Barthes employs both to delineate one type of literature from another and to implicitly interrogate ways of reading, like positive or negative habits the modern reader brings into one's experience with the text itself. These terms are most explicitly fleshed out in \"S/Z\", while the essay \"From Work to Text\", from \"Image—Music—Text\" (1977), provides an analogous parallel look at the active–passive and postmodern–modern ways of interacting with a text.\n\nA text that makes no requirement of the reader to \"write\" or \"produce\" their own meanings. The reader may passively locate \"ready-made\" meaning. Barthes writes that these sorts of texts are \"controlled by the principle of non-contradiction\" (156), that is, they do not disturb the \"common sense,\" or \"Doxa,\" of the surrounding culture. The \"readerly texts,\" moreover, \"are products [that] make up the enormous mass of our literature\" (5). Within this category, there is a spectrum of \"replete literature,\" which comprises \"any classic (readerly) texts\" that work \"like a cupboard where meanings are shelved, stacked, [and] safeguarded\" (200).<ref name=\"S/Z\">Barthes, Roland. S/Z: An Essay. Trans. Richard Miller. New York: Hill and Wang, 1974.</ref>\n\nA text that aspires to the proper goal of literature and criticism: \"... to make the reader no longer a consumer but a producer of the text\" (4). Writerly texts and ways of reading constitute, in short, an active rather than passive way of interacting with a culture and its texts. A culture and its texts, Barthes writes, should never be accepted in their given forms and traditions. As opposed to the \"readerly texts\" as \"product,\" the \"writerly text is ourselves writing, before the infinite play of the world is traversed, intersected, stopped, plasticized by some singular system (Ideology, Genus, Criticism) which reduces the plurality of entrances, the opening of networks, the infinity of languages\" (5). Thus reading becomes for Barthes \"not a parasitical act, the reactive complement of a writing\", but rather a \"form of work\" (10).\n\n\"Author\" and \"scriptor\" are terms Barthes uses to describe different ways of thinking about the creators of texts. \"The author\" is our traditional concept of the lone genius creating a work of literature or other piece of writing by the powers of his/her original imagination. For Barthes, such a figure is no longer viable. The insights offered by an array of modern thought, including the insights of Surrealism, have rendered the term obsolete. In place of the author, the modern world presents us with a figure Barthes calls the \"scriptor,\" whose only power is to combine pre-existing texts in new ways. Barthes believes that all writing draws on previous texts, norms, and conventions, and that these are the things to which we must turn to understand a text. As a way of asserting the relative unimportance of the writer's biography compared to these textual and generic conventions, Barthes says that the scriptor has no past, but is born with the text. He also argues that, in the absence of the idea of an \"author-God\" to control the meaning of a work, interpretive horizons are opened up considerably for the active reader. As Barthes puts it, \"the death of the author is the birth of the reader.\"\n\nIn 1964, Barthes wrote \"The Last Happy Writer\" (\"Le dernier des écrivains heureux\" in \"Essais critiques\"), the title of which refers to Voltaire. In the essay he commented on the problems of the modern thinker after discovering the relativism in thought and philosophy, discrediting previous philosophers who avoided this difficulty. Disagreeing roundly with Barthes' description of Voltaire, Daniel Gordon, the translator and editor of \"Candide\" (The Bedford Series in History and Culture), wrote that \"never has one brilliant writer so thoroughly misunderstood another.\"\n\nThe sinologist Simon Leys, in a review of Barthes' diary of a trip to China during the Cultural Revolution, disparages Barthes for his seeming indifference to the situation of the Chinese people, and says that Barthes \"has contrived—amazingly—to bestow an entirely new dignity upon the age-old activity, so long unjustly disparaged, of saying nothing at great length.\"\n\nBarthes' \"\" was the inspiration for the name of 1980s new wave duo The Lover Speaks.\n\nJeffrey Eugenides' \"The Marriage Plot\" draws out excerpts from Barthes' \"A Lover's Discourse: Fragments\" as a way to depict the unique intricacies of love that one of the main characters, Madeleine Hanna, experiences throughout the novel.\n\nIn the film \"Birdman\" (2014) by Alejandro González Iñárritu, a journalist quotes to the protagonist Riggan Thompson an extract from \"Mythologies\": \"The cultural work done in the past by gods and epic sagas is now done by laundry-detergent commercials and comic-strip characters\".\n\nIn the film \"The Truth About Cats & Dogs\" (1996) by Michael Lehmann, Brian is reading an extract from \"Camera Lucida\" over the phone to a woman whom he thinks to be beautiful but who is her more intellectual and less physically desirable friend.\n\nIn the film \"Elegy\", based on Philip Roth's novel \"The Dying Animal\", the character of Consuela (played by Penelope Cruz) is first depicted in the film carrying a copy of Barthes' \"The Pleasure of the Text\" on the campus of the university where she is a student.\n\nLaurent Binet's novel \"The 7th Function of Language\" is based on the premise that Barthes was not merely accidentally hit by a van but that he was instead murdered, as part of a conspiracy to acquire a document known as the \"Seventh Function of Language\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23451032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23451032", "title": "Rosen Method Bodywork", "text": "Rosen Method Bodywork\n\nRosen Method Bodywork (or Rosen Method) is a type of Complementary and alternative medicine. This bodywork, described as \"psycho-somatic\", claims to help integrate one's bodily and emotional/mental experience while identifying unconscious patterns of muscular holding, feeling, and behavior. The main theory underpinning this method is that a person protects themselves from past painful experiences through the body, separating one from one's true self. This alleged protection is said to be experienced most frequently as chronic musculoskeletal pain and tension, and purportedly can be observed by the bodywork practitioners as restricted patterns of movement and posture, muscular tension, or shortness of breath. Rosen Method Bodywork purports to integrate the body, mind, emotions and spirit; and unlock the unconscious.\n\nQuackwatch categorized the Rosen Method as an \"unnaturalistic method\" and says that it features \"non-intrusive\" touch, verbal interaction, and experiencing breath as \"gateway to awareness\".\n\nRosen Method bodywork has developed through its founder Marion Rosen's physical therapy practice and work with Lucy Heyer, a student of Elsa Gindler.\n"}
{"id": "21907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21907", "title": "Seven Laws of Noah", "text": "Seven Laws of Noah\n\nThe Seven Laws of Noah ( \"Sheva Mitzvot B'nei Noach\"), also referred to as the Noahide Laws or the Noachide Laws (from the Hebrew pronunciation of \"Noah\"), are a set of imperatives which, according to the Talmud, were given by God as a binding set of laws for the \"children of Noah\" – that is, all of humanity.\n\nAccordingly, any non-Jew who adheres to these laws because they were given by Moses is regarded as a \"righteous gentile\", and is assured of a place in the world to come ( \"Olam Haba\"), the final reward of the righteous.\n\nThe seven Noahide laws as traditionally enumerated are the following:\n\n\nAccording to the Talmud, the rabbis agree that the seven laws were given to the sons of Noah. However, they disagree on precisely which laws were given to Adam and Eve. Six of the seven laws are exegetically derived from passages in Genesis, with the seventh being the establishing of courts.\n\nAccording to the Genesis flood narrative, a deluge covered the whole world, killing every surface-dwelling creature except Noah, his wife, his sons and their wives, and the animals taken aboard Noah's Ark. According to this, all modern humans are descendants of Noah, thus the name Noahide Laws is referred to the laws that apply to all of humanity. After the flood, God sealed a covenant with Noah with the following admonitions ():\n\nThe Book of Jubilees, generally dated to the 2nd century BCE, may include an early reference to Noahide Law at verses 7:20–28:\n\nThe Jewish Encyclopedia article on Saul of Tarsus states:\nThe article \"New Testament\" states:\nThe earliest complete rabbinic version of the seven laws can be found in the Tosefta where they are listed as follows.\n\nSeven commandments were commanded of the sons of Noah:\n\nAccording to the Talmud, the Noahide Laws apply to all humanity. In Judaism, בני נח \"B'nei Noah\" (Hebrew, \"Descendants of Noah\", \"Children of Noah\") refers to all of humankind. The Talmud also states: \"Righteous people of all nations have a share in the world to come\". Any non-Jew who lives according to these laws is regarded as one of \"the righteous among the gentiles\".\n\nThe rabbis agree that the seven laws were given to the sons of Noah. However, they disagree on precisely which laws were given to Adam and Eve. Six of the seven laws are exegetically derived from passages in Genesis. The Talmud adds extra laws beyond the seven listed in the Tosefta which are attributed to different rabbis, such as the grafting of trees and sorcery among others, Ulla going so far as to make a list of 30 laws. The Talmud expands the scope of the seven laws to cover about 100 of the 613 mitzvoth.\n\nIn practice Jewish law makes it very difficult to apply the death penalty. No record exists of a gentile having been put to death for violating the seven laws. Some of the categories of capital punishment recorded in the Talmud are recorded as having never been carried out. It is thought that the rabbis included discussion of them in anticipation of the coming messianic age.\n\nThe Talmud lists the punishment for blaspheming the Ineffable Name of God as death. The sons of Noah are to be executed by decapitation for most crimes, considered one of the lightest capital punishments, by stoning if he has intercourse with a Jewish betrothed woman, or by strangulation if the Jewish woman has completed the marriage ceremonies, but had not yet consummated the marriage. In Jewish law the only form of blasphemy which is punishable by death is blaspheming the Ineffable Name (). Some Talmudic rabbis held that only those offences for which a Jew would be executed, are forbidden to gentiles. The Talmudic rabbis discuss which offences and sub-offences are capital offences and which are merely forbidden.\n\nMaimonides states that anyone who does not accept the seven laws is to be executed, as God compelled the world to follow these laws. However, for the other prohibitions such as the grafting of trees and bestiality he holds that the sons of Noah are not to be executed. Maimonides adds a universalism lacking from earlier Jewish sources. The Talmud differs from Maimonides in that it considers the seven laws enforceable by Jewish authorities on non-Jews living within a Jewish nation. Nahmanides disagrees with Maimonides reasoning. He limits the obligation of enforcing the seven laws to non-Jewish authorities taking the matter out of Jewish hands. The Tosafot seems to agree with Nahmanides reasoning. According to some opinions, punishment is the same whether the individual transgresses with knowledge of the law or is ignorant of the law.\n\nVarious rabbinic sources have different positions on the way the seven laws are to be subdivided in categories. Maimonides', in his Mishneh Torah, included the grafting of trees. Like the Talmud, he interpreted the prohibition against homicide as including a prohibition against abortion. David ben Solomon ibn Abi Zimra, a commentator on Maimonides, expressed surprise that he left out castration and sorcery which were also listed in the Talmud.\n\nThe Talmudist Ulla said that here are 30 laws which the sons of Noah took upon themselves. However he only lists three, namely the three that the Gentiles follow: not to create a Ketubah between males, not to sell carrion or human flesh in the market and to respect the Torah. The rest of the laws are not listed. Though the authorities seem to take it for granted that Ulla's thirty commandments included the original seven, an additional thirty laws is also possible from the reading. Two different lists of the 30 laws exist. Both lists include an additional twenty-three mitzvot which are subdivisions or extensions of the seven laws. One from the 16th-century work \"Asarah Maamarot\" by Rabbi Menahem Azariah da Fano and a second from the 10th century Samuel ben Hofni which was recently published from his Judeo-Arabic writings after having been found in the Cairo Geniza. Rabbi Zvi Hirsch Chajes suggests Menahem Azariah of Fano enumerated commandments are not related to the first seven, nor based on Scripture, but instead were passed down by oral tradition.\n\nIn earlier times, a Gentile living in the Land of Israel who accepted the Seven Laws in front of a rabbinical court was known as a \"ger toshav\" (literally stranger/resident). The regulations regarding Jewish-Gentile relations are modified in the case of a \"ger toshav\".\n\nHistorically, some rabbinic opinions consider non-Jews not only not obliged to adhere to all the remaining laws of the Torah, but actually forbidden to observe them.\n\nNoahide law differs radically from Roman law for gentiles (\"Jus Gentium\"), if only because the latter was enforceable judicial policy. Rabbinic Judaism has never adjudicated any cases under Noahide law, Jewish scholars disagree about whether Noahide law is a functional part of Halakha (\"Jewish law\").\n\nSome modern views hold that penalties are a detail of the Noahide Laws and that Noahides themselves must determine the details of their own laws for themselves. According to this school of thought – see N. Rakover, \"Law and the Noahides\" (1998); M. Dallen, \"The Rainbow Covenant\" (2003) – the Noahide Laws offer mankind a set of absolute values and a framework for righteousness and justice, while the detailed laws that are currently on the books of the world's states and nations are presumptively valid.\n\nIn recent years, the term \"Noahide\" has come to refer to non-Jews who strive to live in accord with the seven Noahide Laws; the terms \"observant Noahide\" or \"Torah-centered Noahides\" would be more precise but these are infrequently used. Support for the use of \"Noahide\" in this sense can be found with the Ritva, who uses the term \"Son of Noah\" to refer to a Gentile who keeps the seven laws, but is not a Ger Toshav. The rainbow, referring to the Noahide or First Covenant (Genesis 9), is the symbol of many organized Noahide groups, following .<ref>\n"}
{"id": "6958069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6958069", "title": "Shuddhadvaita", "text": "Shuddhadvaita\n\nShuddadvaita (Sanskrit: \"pure non-dualism\") is the \"purely non-dual\" philosophy propounded by Vallabhacharya (1479-1531 CE), the founding philosopher and guru of the (\"tradition of Vallabha\") or (\"The path of grace\"), a Hindu Vaishnava tradition focused on the worship of Krishna. Vallabhacharya's pure form (nondualist) philosophy is different from Advaita. The Shrinathji temple at Nathdwara, and compositions of eight poets (), including Sur, are central to the worship by the followers of the sect.\n\nThough the tradition originated near Vrindavana in the current Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, in modern times followers of Shuddadvaita are concentrated in the states of Rajasthan and Gujarat.\n\nIn the ancient Vedic tradition of knowledge and comprehension of reality, the central theme would be experiencing the Supreme Entity or Brahman. Vedas primarily contain references to the \"adwait\" nature of Brahm. However, depending on how a scholar perceives those verses, s/he might see duality— \"dwait\" aspect as well. This ambiguity has led to several philosophical traditions in the Indian history, such as:\n\n\nVallabhacharya was a devotional philosopher, who founded the Pushti sect in India. He won the title of acharya by traveling and debating advaita scholars from a young age.\n\nIn 1493-94 Vallabhacharya is said to have identified an image of Krishna at the Govardhan hill at Braj. This image, now called Shrinathji and located at Nathdwara, Rajasthan, is central to the worship by Vallabha followers.\n\nAccording to Vallabha tradition, one night in 1494, Vallabhacharya received the \"Brahmasambandha mantra\" (the mantra that binds one with Brahman, or Krishna) from Krishna himself (hence the name, ) at Gokula. The eight-syllable mantra, \"\" (Lord Krishna is my refuge), is passed onto new initiates in Vallabh sampradaya, and the divine name is said to rid the recipient of all impurities of the soul () .\n\nThe school of in-essence monism or purified non-dualism of Vallabha sees equality in \"essence\" of the individual self with God. There is no real difference between the two (like the analogy of sparks to fire). However, unlike Shankara's Advaita, Vallabha does not deny God as the whole and the individual as the part. The individual soul is not the Supreme (Satcitananda) clouded by the force of avidya, but is itself Brahman, with one attribute (ananda) rendered imperceptible. The soul is both a doer and enjoyer. It is atomic in size, but pervades the whole body through its essence of intelligence (like sandalwood makes its presence felt through its scent even if sandalwood can't be seen).\n\nUnlike Advaita, the world of Maya is not regarded as unreal, since Maya is nothing else than a power of Ishvara. He is not only the creator of the universe but is the universe itself. Vallabha cites the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad account, that Brahman desired to become many, and he became the multitude of individual souls and the world. Although Brahman is not known, He is known when He manifests Himself through the world.\n\nBhakti is the means of salvation, though Jnana is also useful. Karmas precede knowledge of the Supreme, and are present even when this knowledge is gained. The liberated perform all karmas. The highest goal is not Mukti or liberation, but rather eternal service of Krishna and participation along with His activities in His Divine abode of Vrindavana. Vallabha distinguishes the transcendent consciousness of Brahman as Purushottama. Vallabha lays a great stress on a life of unqualified love and devotion towards God.\n\nIn all the philosophical traditions, it is common practice to describe how the Supreme Entity Brahm is related to us and our surroundings. In the system of Suddhadwait Vedant, otherwise known as Brahmvaad, the One, secondless Ultimate Reality is the only category. Every other thing has proceeded from it at the time of creation, is non-different from it during creation and merges into it at the time of dissolution. The two other well known categories namely the animate souls and the inanimate objects are respectively its parts and modifications. The animate souls are its parts because they retain to some extent the essential qualities thereof namely consciousness and joy. The inanimate objects are its modification because the above said qualities are absent therein.\n\nAccording to the version of Vaishnava Theology Vallabhacharya espoused; the glorious Krishna in His \"Satcitananda\" form is the Absolute, Svayam Bhagavan. He is permanently playing out His sport (leela) from His seat in the Goloka which is even beyond the divine Vaikuntha, the abode of Vishnu and Satya-loka, the abode of Brahma the Creator, and Kailas, the abode of Shiva. Creation is His sport.\n\nFollowers of Vallabhacharya maintain that if one wants to obtain moksha and the bliss given by Krishna, the only path to do so is bhakti. In the Kali Yuga, it is believed that the forms of bhakti mentioned in the scriptures are nearly impossible to practice, so the followers of Vallabhacharya recommend \"pushti bhakti\" – which is the end itself and not means to an end, giving moksha, joy and oneness with Shree Krishna. It illustrates oneness with Shree Krishna can be achieved merely by having true belief and love for Shree Krsna and recitation of the Brahmasambandha mantra.\n\nIt is that bhakti which gives itself up body, heart and soul to the cause of God. It is considered to be the fullest expression of what is known as Atma-nivedana (= giving-up of oneself) among the nine forms of bhakti (Navadha Bhakti). It is the bhakti of the devotee who worships God not for any reward or presents but for His own sake. Such a devotee goes to Goloka after leaving this body and lives in eternal bliss enjoying the sports of the Lord. The classical example of this complete self-effacement is that of the cow-herdesses towards Krishna. They spoke no word except prayer and they moved no step except towards Krishna. Their supreme-most meditation was on the lotus-feet of Krishna.Thus it is by God's grace alone that one can obtain release from bondage and attain Krishna's heaven, Goloka.\n\nIn V.S. 1602, his son Vitthalnath, also known as Gusainji, established the eight-fold system of singing the name and glory of Shrinathji (Kirtana) and entrusted this responsibility to eight poet-disciples of Vallabhacharya and his own, called the ashta-chhaap after the eight divine services to Shrinathji from morning until going to sleep. Foremost among them was Sur, the blind poet of Agra.\n\nThese are Surdas, Krishna Das, Paramanand Das, Kumbhan Das, Chaturbhuj Das, Nand Das, Chhitswami, and Govind Das. The first four poets and singers were Vallabhacharya's disciples, while the other three were Gusainji's.\n\nShuddhadwait is defined more thoroughly in verse 27-28 from Shuddhadwait Martand:\n\nशुद्धाद्वैतापदे ज्ञेय: समास: कर्मधारय: I\n\nअद्वैतं शुद्धयो: प्राहुः षष्ठी तत्पुरुषमं बुधा: II\n\nमायासंबंधरहितमं शुद्धमित्युच्यते बुधै: I\n\nकार्यकरणरूपमं हि शुद्धं ब्रह्म न मायिकम़् II \n\nThe Shuddhadvaita philosophy has also been explained by various scholars of the sect, such as Devarshi Ramanath Shastri, who has enunciated the tenets of this philosophy in his books ‘Shuddhadvait Siddhantasaar’ (Hindi and Gujarati) and Shuddhadvaita Darshan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "586821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586821", "title": "Sokuhi Nyoitsu", "text": "Sokuhi Nyoitsu\n\nSokuhi was born in Fuzhou, Fujian, Southeast China. He was born into a declining Confucian scholar gentry family of the Chen clan. Life became difficult for him and his mother after his father died. He was ordained at 17 by Feiyin Tongrong. At 21 he became a disciple of Ingen, abbot of Wanfu Temple, Mount Huangbo, Fujian. There he became a colleague of Muyan. In 1651 he nearly died due to asphyxiation while fighting a forest fire near the temple, and was suddenly enlightened. Sokuhi received dharma transmission from Ingen and the next year received a promotion to high monastic office. He then became abbot of Chongsheng Temple on Mount Xuefeng, also in Fujian.\n\nIn 1654, Ingen and Muyan travelled to Japan and summoned Sokuhi, who followed to Nagasaki in 1657. Sokuhi was made abbot of Sōfuku-ji, a Chinese temple built in 1629, and Muyan was serving as abbot of Fukusai-ji. The two became known as \"nikanromon\" (\"two gates to enlightenment\"). In 1663 Sokuhi met Ingen for the first time in 12 years, after he received permission to go to Uji where he was abbot of Manpuku-ji. In 1664 Sokuhi left for Nagasaki intending to return to China but was convinced to stay by lord of Kokura and found a new temple Fukujū-ji on Mount Kujū (now in Fukuoka). In 1668 he passed this position to his Japanese disciple Houn Myodo and returned to Sōfuku-ji to retire. He became ill in 1670 and died at Nagasaki in 1671. He was cremated and his remains were placed at Fukujū-ji and Sōfuku-ji.\n\n"}
{"id": "15300335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15300335", "title": "Speculative realism", "text": "Speculative realism\n\nSpeculative realism is a movement in contemporary Continental-inspired philosophy (also known as post-Continental philosophy) that defines itself loosely in its stance of metaphysical realism against the dominant forms of post-Kantian philosophy (or what it terms \"correlationism\").\n\nSpeculative realism takes its name from a conference held at Goldsmiths College, University of London in April 2007. The conference was moderated by Alberto Toscano of Goldsmiths College, and featured presentations by Ray Brassier of American University of Beirut (then at Middlesex University), Iain Hamilton Grant of the University of the West of England, Graham Harman of the American University in Cairo, and Quentin Meillassoux of the École Normale Supérieure in Paris. Credit for the name \"speculative realism\" is generally ascribed to Brassier, though Meillassoux had already used the term \"speculative materialism\" to describe his own position.\n\nA second conference, entitled \"Speculative Realism/Speculative Materialism\", took place at the UWE Bristol on Friday 24 April 2009, two years after the original event at Goldsmiths. The line-up consisted of Ray Brassier, Iain Hamilton Grant, Graham Harman, and (in place of Meillassoux, who was unable to attend) Alberto Toscano.\n\nWhile often in disagreement over basic philosophical issues, the speculative realist thinkers have a shared resistance to philosophies of human finitude inspired by the tradition of Immanuel Kant.\n\nWhat unites the four core members of the movement is an attempt to overcome both \"correlationism\" and \"philosophies of access\". In \"After Finitude\", Meillassoux defines correlationism as \"the idea according to which we only ever have access to the correlation between thinking and being, and never to either term considered apart from the other.\" Philosophies of access are any of those philosophies which privilege the human being over other entities. Both ideas represent forms of anthropocentrism.\n\nAll four of the core thinkers within speculative realism work to overturn these forms of philosophy which privilege the human being, favouring distinct forms of realism against the dominant forms of idealism in much of contemporary Continental philosophy.\n\nWhile sharing in the goal of overturning the dominant strands of post-Kantian thought in Continental philosophy, there are important differences separating the core members of the speculative realist movement and their followers.\n\nIn his critique of correlationism, Quentin Meillassoux (who uses the term speculative materialism to describe his position) finds two principles as the locus of Kant's philosophy. The first is the \"principle of correlation\" itself, which claims essentially that we can only know the correlate of Thought and Being; what lies outside that correlate is unknowable. The second is termed by Meillassoux the \"principle of factiality\", which states that things could be otherwise than what they are. This principle is upheld by Kant in his defence of the thing-in-itself as unknowable but imaginable. We can imagine reality as being fundamentally different even if we never know such a reality. According to Meillassoux, the defence of both principles leads to \"weak\" correlationism (such as those of Kant and Husserl), while the rejection of the thing-in-itself leads to the \"strong\" correlationism of thinkers such as late Ludwig Wittgenstein and late Martin Heidegger, for whom it makes no sense to suppose that there is anything outside of the correlate of Thought and Being, and so the principle of factiality is eliminated in favour of a strengthened principle of correlation.\n\nMeillassoux follows the opposite tactic in rejecting the principle of correlation for the sake of a bolstered principle of factiality in his post-Kantian return to Hume. By arguing in favour of such a principle, Meillassoux is led to reject the necessity not only of all physical laws of nature, but all logical laws except the Principle of Non-Contradiction (since eliminating this would undermine the Principle of Factiality which claims that things can always be otherwise than what they are). By rejecting the Principle of Sufficient Reason, there can be no justification for the necessity of physical laws, meaning that while the universe may be ordered in such and such a way, there is no reason it could not be otherwise. Meillassoux rejects the Kantian \"a priori\" in favour of a Humean \"a priori\", claiming that the lesson to be learned from Hume on the subject of causality is that \"\"the same cause may actually bring about 'a hundred different events' \" (and even many more).\"\n\nThe central tenet of Graham Harman and Levi Bryant's object-oriented ontology (OOO) is that objects have been neglected in philosophy in favor of a \"radical philosophy\" that tries to \"undermine\" objects by saying that objects are the crusts to a deeper underlying reality, either in the form of monism or a perpetual flux, or those that try to \"overmine\" objects by saying that the idea of a whole object is a form of folk ontology. According to Harman, everything is an object, whether it be a mailbox, electromagnetic radiation, curved spacetime, the Commonwealth of Nations, or a propositional attitude; all things, whether physical or fictional, are equally objects. Sympathetic to panpsychism, Harman proposes a new philosophical discipline called \"speculative psychology\" dedicated to investigating the \"cosmic layers of psyche\" and \"ferreting out the specific psychic reality of earthworms, dust, armies, chalk, and stone\".\n\nHarman defends a version of the Aristotelian notion of substance. Unlike Leibniz, for whom there were both substances and aggregates, Harman maintains that when objects combine, they create new objects. In this way, he defends an a priori metaphysics that claims that reality is made up only of objects and that there is no \"bottom\" to the series of objects. For Harman, an object is in itself an infinite recess, unknowable and inaccessible by any other thing. This leads to his account of what he terms \"vicarious causality\". Inspired by the occasionalists of medieval Islamic philosophy, Harman maintains that no two objects can ever interact save through the mediation of a \"sensual vicar\". There are two types of objects, then, for Harman: real objects and the sensual objects that allow for interaction. The former are the things of everyday life, while the latter are the caricatures that mediate interaction. For example, when fire burns cotton, Harman argues that the fire does not touch the essence of that cotton which is inexhaustible by any relation, but that the interaction is mediated by a caricature of the cotton which causes it to burn.\n\nIain Hamilton Grant defends a position he calls transcendental materialism. He argues against what he terms \"somatism\", the philosophy and physics of bodies. In his \"Philosophies of Nature After Schelling\", Grant tells a new history of philosophy from Plato onward based on the definition of matter. Aristotle distinguished between Form and Matter in such a way that Matter was invisible to philosophy, whereas Grant argues for a return to the Platonic Matter as not only the basic building blocks of reality, but the forces and powers that govern our reality. He traces this same argument to the post-Kantian German Idealists Johann Gottlieb Fichte and Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, claiming that the distinction between Matter as substantive versus useful fiction persists to this day and that we should end our attempts to overturn Plato and instead attempt to overturn Kant and return to \"speculative physics\" in the Platonic tradition, that is, not a physics of bodies, but a \"physics of the All\".\n\nEugene Thacker has examined how the concept of \"life itself\" is both determined within regional philosophy and also how \"life itself\" comes to acquire metaphysical properties. His book \"After Life\" shows how the ontology of life operates by way of a split between \"Life\" and \"the living,\" making possible a \"metaphysical displacement\" in which life is thought via another metaphysical term, such as time, form, or spirit: \"Every ontology of life thinks of life in terms of something-other-than-life...that something-other-than-life is most often a metaphysical concept, such as time and temporality, form and causality, or spirit and immanence\" Thacker traces this theme from Aristotle, to Scholasticism and mysticism/negative theology, to Spinoza and Kant, showing how this three-fold displacement is also alive in philosophy today (life as time in process philosophy and Deleuzianism, life as form in biopolitical thought, life as spirit in post-secular philosophies of religion). Thacker examines the relation of speculative realism to the ontology of life, arguing for a \"vitalist correlation\": \"Let us say that a vitalist correlation is one that fails to conserve the correlationist dual necessity of the separation and inseparability of thought and object, self and world, and which does so based on some ontologized notion of 'life'.<nowiki>\"</nowiki>. Ultimately Thacker argues for a skepticism regarding \"life\": \"Life is not only a problem \"of\" philosophy, but a problem \"for\" philosophy.\"\n\nOther thinkers have emerged within this group, united in their allegiance to what has been known as \"process philosophy\", rallying around such thinkers as Schelling, Bergson, Whitehead, and Deleuze, among others. A recent example is found in Steven Shaviro's book \"Without Criteria: Kant, Whitehead, Deleuze, and Aesthetics\", which argues for a process-based approach that entails panpsychism as much as it does vitalism or animism. For Shaviro, it is Whitehead's philosophy of prehensions and nexus that offers the best combination of continental and analytical philosophy. Another recent example is found in Jane Bennett's book \"Vibrant Matter\", which argues for a shift from human relations to things, to a \"vibrant matter\" that cuts across the living and non-living, human bodies and non-human bodies. Leon Niemoczynski, in his book \"Charles Sanders Peirce and a Religious Metaphysics of Nature\", invokes what he calls \"speculative naturalism\" so as to argue that nature can afford lines of insight into its own infinitely productive \"vibrant\" ground, which he identifies as \"natura naturans\".\n\nIn \"Nihil Unbound: Extinction and Enlightenment\", Ray Brassier defends transcendental nihilism. He maintains that philosophy has avoided the traumatic idea of extinction, instead attempting to find meaning in a world conditioned by the very idea of its own annihilation. Thus Brassier critiques both the phenomenological and hermeneutic strands of continental philosophy as well as the vitality of thinkers like Gilles Deleuze, who work to ingrain meaning in the world and stave off the \"threat\" of nihilism. Instead, drawing on thinkers such as Alain Badiou, François Laruelle, Paul Churchland and Thomas Metzinger, Brassier defends a view of the world as inherently devoid of meaning. That is, rather than avoiding nihilism, Brassier embraces it as the truth of reality. Brassier concludes from his readings of Badiou and Laruelle that the universe is founded on the nothing, but also that philosophy is the \"organon of extinction,\" that it is only because life is conditioned by its own extinction that there is thought at all. Brassier then defends a radically anti-correlationist philosophy proposing that Thought is conjoined not with Being, but with Non-Being.\n\nIn an interview with Kronos magazine published in March 2011, Ray Brassier denied that there is any such thing as a \"speculative realist movement\" and firmly distanced himself from those who continue to attach themselves to the brand name:\n\nSpeculative realism has close ties to the journal \"Collapse\", which published the proceedings of the inaugural conference at Goldsmiths and has featured numerous other articles by 'speculative realist' thinkers; as has the academic journal \"Pli\", which is edited and produced by members of the Graduate School of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Warwick. The journal \"Speculations\", founded in 2010 published by Punctum books, regularly features articles related to Speculative Realism. Edinburgh University Press publishes a book series called \"Speculative Realism\".\n\nSpeculative realism is notable for its fast expansion via the Internet in the form of blogs. Websites have formed as resources for essays, lectures, and planned future books by those within the speculative realist movement. Many other blogs, as well as podcasts, have emerged with original material on speculative realism or expanding on its themes and ideas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34269896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34269896", "title": "Structural art", "text": "Structural art\n\nCertain works of structural engineering design are also works of structural art. Such works can be classified as structural art when they attain excellence in the three areas of efficiency, economy, and elegance, as defined by Prof. David P. Billington of Princeton University. A key part of the concept of structural art is that the structural engineer making the design must exercise his or her creativity and playfulness to create an elegant structure within the constraints imposed by engineering requirements. These constraints include the safety and serviceability of the structure. Therefore, a structure cannot be a successful work of structural art without also being a successful work of structural engineering design, yet many works of structural engineering design that are safe and serviceable do not rise to the level of structural art because they fail to be economical, efficient, or elegant. Structural art is a topic of active scholarly research at several universities in the United States, including Princeton University, Tufts University, Bucknell University, University of Massachusetts Amherst, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Roger Williams University, and in other parts of the world such as Spain (Universitat Politécnica de València) and Germany (HCU Hamburg). While structural artists often collaborate with architects, the discipline of structural art is based upon engineering rather than architectural design. A recent summary about this topic can be found in a review paper \n\nThe idea of structural art as a creative subdiscipline of structural engineering originates from the scholarship of Prof. David P. Billington of Princeton University. The term appears to have been coined in his 1983 book \"The Tower and the Bridge\", and arose out of scholarly study of great works of structural design made by engineers starting in the late 18th century with the beginning of the wide availability of iron as a structural material. Much of the impetus for the idea came from the personal and professional writings of engineers such as Thomas Telford, John Roebling, and Robert Maillart, among others, who wrote of the conscious way they attempted to create aesthetically pleasing, imaginative, and elegant structures, while meeting safety and serviceability requirements. A theme uniting many of the foundational structural artists is that they either were builders themselves (John Roebling) or had a builder's mentality (Fazlur Khan). Other scholars of structural engineering design have published works that can be considered part of the body of knowledge on structural art. Notable among these is Alan Holgate \n\nIt is also said that a work of structural art should be interpreted in terms of the 'Three S's'; the scientific, social, and symbolic meaning:\n\nAn example of three specific ideas related to the three S's are the 'Three E's'. A work of structural art must excel in efficiency, economy, and elegance, often referred to as the 'Three E's':\n\nProfessor Billington has also put forth in his lectures that works of structural art involve imagination, inspiration, and innovation - though this categorization is not found in his formal writings.\n\nSome of the structural artists who essentially defined the art form by their own works include: Thomas Telford, Gustav Eiffel, John Roebling, Othmar Ammann, Robert Maillart, Christian Menn, Heinz Isler, Fazlur Khan, Felix Candela, Pier Luigi Nervi, Eduardo Torroja, Eladio Dieste. Some of the great works of structural art include: Menai Straits Bridge, Craigellachie Bridge, Eiffel Tower, Brooklyn Bridge, George Washington Bridge, Verrazano Narrows Bridge, Salginatobel Bridge, Ganter Bridge, Sicli Company Building, John Hancock Center, Los Manantiales Restaurant at Xochimilco, Little Sports Palace.\n\nStructural art is distinct from architecture primarily in that the constraints under which structural artists practice are very different from those under which architects practice. Structural artists, while seeking elegance, must satisfy safety and serviceability, efficiency and economy, and usage needs. Architects are somewhat freer in making designs, constrained primarily by usage needs. \n\nEero Saarinen's Gateway Arch and the Eiffel Tower provide a contrast that illustrates the difference between structural art and architecture. The Gateway arch is widely thought to be a highly successful work of architecture, and the Eiffel Tower is recognized as a work of structural art. Both structures must primarily resist wind loads yet have very different forms. The Eiffel Tower has been shown to be the near optimal form for resisting wind loads, and therefore is more in line with the ideals of structural art than architecture. The Gateway Arch succeeds as a work of architecture and does not meet the ideals of efficiency and economy.\n\nContemporary scholarly debate regarding the definition of structural art continues to develop and advance the concept. Two areas in which such debate is occurring are the inclusion of a temporal aspect in the evaluation of structural art, and inclusion of the sustainability of a design. Regarding the temporal aspect, it has been argued that the time-dependent concept of a design process is missing from the conventional definition of structural art. This feature of a design can arise particularly regarding construction, when economy of time is an important consideration. Though sustainability of a design is not explicitly included in the current definition of structural art, it can be argued that a design that succeeds in efficiency, economy, and elegance will be sustainable, provided that evaluations of the 'Three E's' consider life-cycle performance of the structure. Probably the most elaborated critique on structural art was given in where widely accepted definition of structural art is considered counterproductive because imposes trivial limitations on developing real structural engineering\nartistry.\n\n"}
{"id": "385808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385808", "title": "The Enneads", "text": "The Enneads\n\nThe Enneads (), fully The Six Enneads, is the collection of writings of Plotinus, edited and compiled by his student Porphyry (270). Plotinus was a student of Ammonius Saccas and they were founders of Neoplatonism. His work, through Augustine of Hippo, the Cappadocian Fathers, Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite and several subsequent Christian and Muslim thinkers, has greatly influenced Western and Near-Eastern thought.\n\nPorphyry edited the writings of Plotinus in fifty-four treatises, which vary greatly in length and number of chapters, mostly because he split original texts and joined others together to match this very number. Then, he proceeded to set the fifty-four treatises in groups of nine (Greek. \"ennea\") or \"Enneads\". He also collected \"The Enneads\" into three volumes. The first volume contained the first three \"Enneads\" (I, II, III), the second volume has the \"Fourth\" (IV) and the \"Fifth\" (V) \"Enneads\", and the last volume was devoted to the remaining \"Enneads\". After correcting and naming each treatise, Porphyry wrote a biography of his master, \"Life of Plotinus\", intended to be an Introduction to the \"Enneads\".\n\nPorphyry's edition does not follow the chronological order in which \"Enneads\" were written (see \"Chronological Listing\" below), but responds to a plan of study which leads the learner from subjects related to his own affairs to subjects concerning the uttermost principles of the universe.\n\nAlthough not exclusively, Porphyry tells us (Cf. \"Life of Plotinus\", chapters.24-26) that the \"First Ennead\" deals with Human or ethical topics, the \"Second and Third Enneads \" are mostly devoted to cosmological subjects or physical reality, the \"Fourth\" concerns the Soul, the \"Fifth\" knowledge and intelligible reality, and finally the \"Sixth\" covers Being and what is above it, the One or first principle of all.\n\nSince the publishing of a modern critical edition of the Greek text by P. Henry and H.-R. Schwyzer (\"Plotini Opera\". 3 volumes. Paris-Bruxelles, 1951-1973) and the revised one (\"Plotini Opera\". 3 volumes. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1964-1984) there is an academic convention of citing the \"Enneads\" by first mentioning the number of \"Ennead\" (usually in Romans from I to VI), the number of treatise within each \"Ennead\" (in arabics from 1 to 9), the number of chapter (in arabics also), and the line(s) in one of the mentioned editions. These numbers are divided by periods, commas, or blank spaces.\n\nE.g. For \"Fourth Ennead\" (IV), treatise number seven (7), chapter two (2), lines one to five (1-5), we write:\n\n\nE.g. The following three mean \"Third Ennead\" (III), treatise number five (5), chapter nine (9), line eight (8):\n\n\nIt is important to remark that some translations or editions do not include the line numbers according to P. Henry and H.-R. Schwyzer's edition. In addition to this, the chronological order of the treatises is numbered between brackets or parentheses, and given below.\n\nE.g. For the previously given:\n\n\nThe names of treatises may differ according to translation. The numbers in square brackets before the individual works refer to the chronological order they were written according to Porphyry's \"Life of Plotinus\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe chronological listing is given by Porphyry (\"Life of Plotinus\" 4–6). The first 21 treatises (through IV.1) had already been written when Porphyry met Plotinus, so they were not necessarily written in the order shown.\n\nAfter the fall of Western Roman Empire and during the period of the Byzantine Empire, the authorship of some Plotinus' texts became clouded.\nMany passages of \"Enneads\" IV-VI, now known as \"Plotiniana Arabica\", circulated among Islamic scholars (as Al-Kindi, Al-Farabi and Avicenna) under the name \"The Theology of Aristotle\" or quoted as \"Sayings of an old [wise] man\".\nThe writings had a significant effect on Islamic philosophy, due to Islamic interest in Aristotle. A Latin version of the so-called \"Theology\" appeared in Europe in 1519. (Cf. O'Meara, \"An Introduction the Enneads\". Oxford: 1995, 111ff.)\n\nCritical editions:\n\n\nUseful tools for the study of the \"Enneads\" are\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43288688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43288688", "title": "The Magic Mountain (1982 film)", "text": "The Magic Mountain (1982 film)\n\nThe Magic Mountain () is a 1982 German film adaptation of Thomas Mann's 1924 novel \"The Magic Mountain\" directed by Hans W. Geißendörfer.\n\n"}
{"id": "3055177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3055177", "title": "Timothy Williamson", "text": "Timothy Williamson\n\nTimothy Williamson, (born 6 August 1955) is a British philosopher whose main research interests are in philosophical logic, philosophy of language, epistemology and metaphysics. He is the Wykeham Professor of Logic at the University of Oxford, and fellow of New College, Oxford. \n\nTimothy Williamson's education began at Leighton Park School and continued at Henley Grammar School. He then went to Oxford University. He graduated in 1976 with a B.A. (first class honours) in Mathematics and Philosophy, and in 1981 with a doctorate in philosophy (D.Phil.) for a thesis examining \"The Concept of Approximation to the Truth\".\n\nPrior to taking up the Wykeham Professorship in 2000, Williamson was Professor of Logic and Metaphysics at the University of Edinburgh (1995–2000); fellow and lecturer in Philosophy at University College, Oxford (1988–1994); and lecturer in Philosophy at Trinity College, Dublin (1980–1988). \n\nHe was president of the Aristotelian Society from 2004 to 2005.\n\nHe is a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (FRSE) and a Foreign Honorary Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences.\n\nWilliamson has contributed to analytic philosophy of language, logic, metaphysics and epistemology.\n\nOn vagueness, he holds a position known as epistemicism, which states that every seemingly vague predicate (like \"bald\", or \"thin\") actually has a sharp cutoff, which is impossible for us to know. That is, there is some number of hairs such that anyone with that number is bald, and anyone with even one more hair is not. In actuality, this condition will be spelled out only partly in terms of numbers of hairs, but whatever measures are relevant will have some precise cutoff. This solution to the difficult sorites paradox was considered an astonishing and unacceptable consequence, but has become a relatively mainstream view since his defense of it. Williamson is fond of using the statement, \"no one knows whether I am thin\" to illustrate his view.\n\nIn epistemology, he suggests that the concept of knowledge is unanalyzable. This goes against the common trend in philosophical literature up to that point, which was to argue that knowledge could be analysed into constituent concepts. (Typically this would be justified true belief plus an extra factor.) He agrees that knowledge entails justification, truth and belief, but argues that it is conceptually primitive. He accounts for the importance of belief by discussing its connections with knowledge, but avoids the disjunctivist position of saying that belief can be analyzed as the disjunction of knowledge with some distinct, non-factive mental state.\n\n\nWilliamson has also published more than 120 articles in peer-reviewed scholarly journals.\n\n"}
{"id": "5935150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5935150", "title": "Warnier/Orr diagram", "text": "Warnier/Orr diagram\n\nA Warnier/Orr diagram (also known as a logical construction of a program/system) is a kind of hierarchical flowchart that allows the description of the organization of data and procedures. They were initially developed in France by Jean-Dominique Warnier and in the United States by Kenneth Orr. This method aids the design of program structures by identifying the output and processing results and then working backwards to determine the steps and combinations of input needed to produce them. The simple graphic method used in Warnier/Orr diagrams makes the levels in the system evident and the movement of the data between them vivid.\n\nWarnier/Orr diagrams show the processes and sequences in which they are performed. Each process is defined in a hierarchical manner i.e. it consists of sets of subprocesses, that define it. At each level, the process is shown in bracket that groups its components.\n\nSince a process can have many different subprocesses, Warnier/Orr diagram uses a set of brackets to show each level of the system. Critical factors in s/w definition and development are iteration or repetition and alternation. Warnier/Orr diagrams show this very well.\n\nTo develop a Warnier/Orr diagram, the analyst works backwards, starting with systems output and using output oriented analysis. On paper, the development moves from the set to the element (from left to right) . First, the intended output or results of the processing are defined. At the next level, shown by inclusion with a bracket, the steps needed to produce the output are defined. Each step in turn is further defined. Additional brackets group the processes required to produce the result on the next level.\n\nWarnier/Orr diagrams offer some distinct advantages to systems experts. They are simple in appearance and easy to understand. Yet they are powerful design tools. They have advantage of showing groupings of processes and the data that must be passed from level to level. In addition, the sequence of working backwards ensures that the system will be result oriented. This method is useful for both data and process definition. It can be used for each independently, or both can be combined on the same diagram.\n\nThere are four basic constructs used on Warnier/Orr diagrams: hierarchy, sequence, repetition, and alternation. There are also two slightly more advanced concepts that are occasionally needed: concurrency and recursion.\n\nHierarchy is the most fundamental of all of the Warnier/Orr constructs. It is simply a nested group of sets and subsets shown as a set of nested brackets. Each bracket on the diagram (depending on how you represent it, the character is usually more like a brace \"{\" than a bracket \"[\", but we call them \"brackets\") represents one level of hierarchy. The hierarchy or structure that is represented on the diagram can show the organization of data or processing. However, both data and processing are never shown on the same diagram.\n\nSequence is the simplest structure to show on a Warnier/Orr diagram. Within one level of hierarchy, the features listed are shown in the order in which they occur. In other words, the step listed first is the first that will be executed (if the diagram reflects a process), while the step listed last is the last that will be executed. Similarly with data, the data field listed first is the first that is encountered when looking at the data, the data field listed last is the final one encountered.\n\nRepetition is the representation of a classic \"loop\" in programming terms. It occurs whenever the same set of data occurs over and over again (for a data structure) or whenever the same group of actions is to occur over and over again (for a processing structure). Repetition is indicated by placing a set of numbers inside parentheses beneath the repeating set.\n\nTypically there are two numbers listed in the parentheses, representing the fewest and the most number of times the set will repeat. By convention the first letter of the repeating set is the letter chosen to represent the maximum.\n\nWhile the minimum bound and maximum bound can technically be anything, they are most often either \"(1,n)\" as in the example, or \"(0,n).\" When used to depict processing, the \"(1,n)\" repetition is classically known as a \"DoUntil\" loop, while the \"(0,n)\" repetition is called a \"DoWhile\" loop. On the Warnier/Orr diagram, however, there is no distinction between the two different types of repetition, other than the minimum bound value.\n\nOn occasion, the minimum and maximum bound are predefined and not likely to change: for instance the set \"Day\" occurs within the set \"Month\" from 28 to 31 times (since the smallest month has 28 days, the largest months, 31). This is not likely to change. And on occasion, the minimum and maximum are fixed at the same number.\n\nIn general, though, it is a bad idea to \"hard code\" a constant other than \"0\" or \"1\" in a number of times clause—the design should be flexible enough to allow for changes in the number of times without changes to the design. For instance, if a company has 38 employees at the time a design is done, hard coding a \"38\" as the \"number of employees\" within company would certainly not be as flexible as designing \"(1,n)\".\n\nThe number of times clause is always an operator attached to some set (i.e., the name of some bracket), and is never attached to an element (a diagram feature which does not decompose into smaller features). The reason for this will become more apparent as we continue to work with the diagrams. For now, you will have to accept this as a formation rule for a correct diagram.\n\nAlternation, or selection, is the traditional \"decision\" process whereby a determination is made to execute one process or another. The Exclusive OR symbol (the plus sign inside the circle) indicates that the sets immediately above and below it are mutually exclusive (if one is present the other is not). This diagram indicates that an Employee is either Management or Non-Management, one Employee cannot be both. It is also permissible to use a \"negation bar\" above an alternative in a manner similar to engineering notation. The bar is read by simply using the word \"not\".\n\nAlternatives do not have to be binary as in the previous examples, but may be many-way alternatives.\n\nConcurrency is one of the two advanced constructs used in the methodology. It is used whenever sequence is unimportant. For instance, years and weeks operate concurrently (or at the same time) within our calendar. The concurrency operator is rarely used in program design (since most languages do not support true concurrent processing anyway), but does come into play when resolving logical and physical data structure clashes.\n\nRecursion is the least used of the constructs. It is used to indicate that a set contains an earlier or a less ordered version of itself. In the classic \"bill of materials\" problem components contain parts and other sub-components. Sub-components also contain sub-sub-components, and so on. The doubled bracket indicates that the set is recursive. Data structures that are truly recursive are rather rare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32899", "title": "William Alston", "text": "William Alston\n\nWilliam Payne Alston (November 29, 1921 – September 13, 2009) was an American philosopher. He made influential contributions to the philosophy of language, epistemology, and Christian philosophy. He earned his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago and taught at the University of Michigan, Rutgers University, University of Illinois, and Syracuse University.\n\nAlston was born to Eunice Schoolfield and William Alston on November 29, 1921, in Shreveport, Louisiana. He graduated from high school when he was 15 and went on to Centenary College of Louisiana, graduating in 1942 with a Bachelor of Music in piano. During World War II, he played clarinet and bass drum in a military band in California. During this time, he became interested in philosophy, sparked by W. Somerset Maugham's book \"The Razor's Edge\". After this, he engrossed himself in works by well-known philosophers such as Jacques Maritain, Mortimer J. Adler, Francis Bacon, Plato, René Descartes, and John Locke. After being discharged, he entered a graduate program for philosophy at the University of Chicago, even though he had never formally taken a class on the subject. While he was there, he learned more about philosophy from Richard McKeon and Charles Hartshorne, and he received his PhD in 1951.\n\nFrom 1949 until 1971, Alston was a professor at the University of Michigan, and he became professor of philosophy in 1961. He then taught at Rutgers University for five years, followed by the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign from 1976 to 1980 and then Syracuse University from 1980 to 1992.\n\nHis views on foundationalism, internalism versus externalism, speech acts, and the epistemic value of mystical experience, among many other topics, have been very influential. Like most contemporary American philosophers, Alston is counted among the analytic philosophers.\n\nTogether with Alvin Plantinga, Nicholas Wolterstorff, and Robert Adams, Alston helped to found the journal \"Faith and Philosophy\". With Plantinga, Wolterstorff, and others, Alston was also responsible for the development of \"Reformed epistemology\" (a term that Alston, an Episcopalian, never fully endorsed), one of the most important contributions to Christian thought in the twentieth century. Alston was president of the Western Division (now the Central Division) of the American Philosophical Association in 1979, the Society for Philosophy and Psychology, and the Society of Christian Philosophers, which he co-founded. He was widely recognized as one of the core figures in the late twentieth-century revival of the philosophy of religion. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1990.\n\nAlston died in a nursing home in Jamesville, New York, on September 13, 2009, at the age of 87.\n\n\n\n"}
