{"id": "1867733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1867733", "title": "2 Cold Scorpio", "text": "2 Cold Scorpio\n\nCharles Bernard Scaggs (born October 25, 1965) is an American professional wrestler, better known by the ring name 2 Cold Scorpio (sometimes spelled Too Cold Scorpio). He is best known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling, Extreme Championship Wrestling and World Wrestling Federation (as Flash Funk) throughout the 1990s, along with his appearances in Japan for New Japan Pro Wrestling and Pro Wrestling Noah.\n\nChampionships held by 2 Cold Scorpio over the course of his career include the ECW World Tag Team Championship, ECW World Television Championship, GHC Tag Team Championship and WCW World Tag Team Championship.\n\nScaggs made his professional wrestling debut in 1985, adopting the ring name 2 Cold Scorpio. He wrestled in various independent promotions in the United States, until, on the recommendation of Big Van Vader, he decided to go to New Japan Pro Wrestling, where he trained in the NJPW Dojo. He also wrestled in Europe and Mexico.\n\n2 Cold Scorpio debuted in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) on November 18, 1992, as Ron Simmons' mystery partner at Clash of the Champions XXI. He had a brief reign as World Tag Team Champion with Marcus Alexander Bagwell in October 1993. Although he was released in 1994, 2 Cold Scorpio competed on the WCW-promoted pay-per-view When Worlds Collide later that year and the WCW/New Japan produced pay-per-view Collision in Korea in 1995.\n\n2 Cold Scorpio debuted in Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) in 1994, where he had four reigns as World Television Champion and one reign as World Tag Team Champion with The Sandman. He had feuds with wrestlers such as Taz, Shane Douglas, Sabu, and Mikey Whipwreck.\n\nFollowing his departure for the WWF, 2 Cold Scorpio returned to ECW for one night at House Party in 1998 as a mystery opponent for Taz.\n\nIn 1996, he would return to Japan to wrestle for Tokyo Pro Wrestling, under the masked alter-ego, Black Wazuma.\n\n2 Cold Scorpio made his WWF debut on November 17, 1996, at Survivor Series, under the name Flash Funk. His gimmick involved dancing, wearing a zoot suit, and being accompanied to the ring by his \"Fly Girls\" or \"Funkettes\". Towards the end of his first WWF run, Funk reverted to his 2 Cold Scorpio name, later shortening it to \"Scorpio\", and began teaming with former WCW teammate and friend Ron Simmons, as well as Terry Funk through most of 1998. He soon after became a member of Al Snow's J.O.B. Squad. In mid-1998, he competed in the WWF's Brawl for All tournament, replacing Ken Shamrock. He lost in the quarterfinals to The Godfather. In early 1999, 2 Cold Scorpio requested time off due to personal problems, but was instead released from the WWF.\n\n2 Cold Scorpio next made sporadic appearances for ECW, which included a challenge against then-champion Mike Awesome for the ECW World Heavyweight Championship on the December 10, 1999, edition of \"ECW on TNN\". 2 Cold Scorpio competed for All Japan Pro Wrestling until native members of its roster defected to form Pro Wrestling Noah in 2000, and both Scorpio and Vader followed. During his tenure in Noah, he won the GHC Openweight Hardcore Championship, as well as the GHC Tag Team Championship with both Vader and Doug Williams.\n\nIn 2006, 2 Cold Scorpio signed a contract with World Wrestling Entertainment. Upon joining the promotion, he returned to using his Flash Funk character in the WWE developmental promotion Deep South Wrestling until he was released on May 11, 2007, without ever appearing on WWE television. On the 15th anniversary of \"WWE Raw\" on December 10, 2007, 2 Cold Scorpio participated in a battle royal as \"Flash Funk\", eliminating Steve Blackman while eliminating himself in the process.\n\nOn June 10, 2005, 2 Cold Scorpio wrestled at the ECW reunion event \"Hardcore Homecoming\", defeating Kid Kash.\n\nIn late 2007, 2 Cold Scorpio joined Booker T's Pro Wrestling Alliance promotion, based in Houston, Texas. He wrestled occasionally in Pasadena, Texas, at the city's convention center, and he participated in a feud with heel wrestler and student Gustavo Mendoza. His last PWA match was in February 2008 at \"Texas Tapout\" against Mendoza.\n\nOn August 8, 2010, 2 Cold Scorpio wrestled at Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's ECW reunion show, Hardcore Justice, defeating C.W. Anderson. On April 28, 2012, 2 Cold Scorpio wrestled Shane Douglas in the main event of Extreme Reunion (a wrestling event promoted by Douglas) in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. During the match, two masked men got involved. One was Kevin Sullivan, who attacked Douglas. The other was former ECW owner Tod Gordon, who hugged 2 Cold Scorpio. Douglas pinned 2 Cold Scorpio with a twisting sunset flip.\n\n2 Cold Scorpio made his debut for Chikara in September 2012, when he, Jerry Lynn and Tommy Dreamer entered the 2012 King of Trios as \"The Extreme Trio\", defeating Team WWF (1-2-3 Kid, Aldo Montoya and Tatanka) in their first round match. The following day, The Extreme Trio was eliminated from the tournament by Team ROH (Mike Bennett, Matt Jackson and Nick Jackson).\n\nOn February 2, 2013, 2 Cold Scorpio defeated ACH in the main event of the first ever National Pro Wrestling Day to become the 2013 Rey De Voladores. On June 23, 2013, 2 Cold Scorpio was defeated by John Hennigan in a match for the FWE Heavyweight Championship at \"House of Hardcore 2\".\n\nDuring a Ring of Honor's \"Straight Shootin\" interview in 2004, Scaggs admitted to hard drug use while he was in ECW and WWF, but it had been significantly accelerated during his stint in WWF due to the fact that he was simply making more money and thus had the opportunity to use more. Scaggs regretted his covert lifestyle at the time, and wondered that if he had admitted to WWF and himself that he had a problem, his career might have lasted longer in WWF. He also admitted to have kicked his hard drug use several years ago, although still actively using marijuana. \n\nOn November 14, 2016, Scaggs joined a class action lawsuit against WWE, litigated by Konstantine Kyros, who has been involved in a number of other lawsuits against them, alleging that \"he is suffering from multiple symptoms of repetitive traumatic brain injuries and is undergoing neurological care.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30335517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30335517", "title": "Al-Mahdi Ahmad bin Yahya", "text": "Al-Mahdi Ahmad bin Yahya\n\nAl-Mahdi Ahmad bin Yahya (1363? – 1436) was an imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen who briefly held the imamate in 1391–1392.\n\nAhmad bin Yahya was a 12th-generation descendant of the Zaidi imam ad-Da'i Yusuf (d. 1012), and was born in either 1363 or 1373. He was very well educated and a prolific writer in various subjects. In 1391, the old imam al-Nasir Muhammad Salah al-Din died, leaving only young offsprings. The qadi ad-Dawwari temporarily took care of the administration in the Zaidi domains of highland Yemen, in the name of an-Nasir's sons. However, the Zaidi ulema assembled in the Jamal ad-Din Mosque in San'a and appointed Ahmad bin Yahya imam under the name al-Mahdi Ahmad. This step was not accepted by ad-Dawwani, who immediately appointed the deceased imam's son al-Mansur Ali bin Salah ad-Din. Al-Mahdi Ahmad and his followers withdrew from San'a to Bayt Baws, and for one year the two imams fought each other for supremacy. In 1392, al-Mahdi Ahmad was captured by al-Mansur Ali's forces and imprisoned. In 1399 the ex-imam escaped with the help of sympathetic prison guards. He lived a private life until his death from the plague in 1436. While he lacked the administrative or military skills necessary for a Zaydiyyah imam, al-Mahdi Ahmad left a considerable amount of writings in dogmatics, logic, poetry, grammar and law. For example, he authored a theological-legal encyclopedia, \"Al-Bahr al-zahhar\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28807573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28807573", "title": "André Blanc", "text": "André Blanc\n\nAndré Blanc was a physiotherapist who became manager of Olympique de Marseille for the 1942-43 season. He won the Coupe de France in this season.\n"}
{"id": "29261482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29261482", "title": "Basanta Choudhury", "text": "Basanta Choudhury\n\nBasanta Choudhury, or Basanta Chowdhury (Bengali:বসন্ত চৌধুরী) (5 May 1928 – 20 June 2000), was an actor in the Kolkata-based Bengali film industry and the Mumbai-based Hindi film industry. He worked with directors Asit Sen, Rajen Tarafdar, Ajay Kar and Bijay Bose, often in leading roles.\n\nChoudhury's collection of Kashmiri and Persian shawls were enviable. Director Satyajit Ray admired those collections and used for his masterpieces.\n\nBasanta Chowdhury was born into an affluent Datta Chowdhury family of Andul, Howrah. He was the eldest son of Shiddeshwar Chowdhury and Kamala Devi. His younger brother was Prasanta Chowdhury. The actor was born and spent his early life in Nagpur where he had his schooling and college education. In 1945 AD he completed his Matriculation Examination from Deena Nath High School Nagpur.After shifting to Kolkata, Chowdhury used to stay at Ranikuthi in Tollygunge.\n\nHe was a numismatist i.e. an expert collector of Ganesha idols, rare coins, paper currency and was a collector of Kashmiri and Persian shawls.\n\nHis first film was \"Mahaprasthaner Pathe\" by director Kartik Chattopadhay in 1952. Some of his memorable films are, \"Bhagaban Shri Krishna Chaitanya\", \"Jadu Bhatta\", \"Andhare Alo\", \"Deep Jwele Jaai\" with Suchitra Sen, \"Anushtoop Chhanda\", \"Abhaya O Srikanta\", \"Raja Rammohan Roy\", \"Diba Ratrir Kabya\", \"Devi Chaudhurani\". He was also involved with amateur theater and radio.\n\n\nIn 1965, actor Chowdhury was awarded the Best Actor Prize for his film \"Raja Rammohan\" by B.F.J.A. In 1996, he also received Bangla Stage Centenary Star Theater award from Calcutta University. He had also acted in several Hindi films.\n\nThe actor had been the Sheriff of Kolkata. He was also appointed as the Chairman of Nandan-West Bengal Film Centre in Kolkata.\n\nThe actor suffered from lung cancer for quite some time. He died on 20 June 2000 in Kolkata.\n"}
{"id": "310234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310234", "title": "Battery (crime)", "text": "Battery (crime)\n\nBattery is a criminal offense involving the unlawful physical acting upon a threat, distinct from assault which is the act of creating apprehension of such contact.\n\nBattery is a specific common law misdemeanor, although the term is used more generally to refer to any unlawful offensive physical contact with another person, and may be a misdemeanor or a felony, depending on the circumstances. Battery was defined at common law as \"any unlawful and or unwanted touching of the person of another by the aggressor, or by a substance put in motion by him.\" In most cases, battery is now governed by statutes, and its severity is determined by the law of the specific jurisdiction.\n\nSpecific rules regarding battery vary among different jurisdictions, but some elements remain constant across jurisdictions. Battery generally requires that:\n\n\nUnder the US Model Penal Code and in some jurisdictions, there is battery when the actor acts recklessly without specific intent of causing an offensive contact. Battery is typically classified as either simple or aggravated. Although battery typically occurs in the context of physical altercations, it may also occur under other circumstances, such as in medical cases where a doctor performs a non-consented medical procedure.\n\nBattery is not defined in the Canadian Criminal Code. Instead, the Code has an offense of assault, and assault causing bodily harm.\n\nBattery is a common law offence within England and Wales.\n\nAs with the majority of offences in the UK, it has two elements:\n\nThis offence is a crime against autonomy, with more violent crimes such as ABH and GBH being punishable under the Offences Against the Person Act 1861.\n\nAs such, even the slightest of touches can amount to an unlawful application of force. However, it is assumed that everyday encounters (such as making contact with others on public transportation) are consented to and not punishable.\n\nMuch confusion can come between the terms 'assault' and 'battery'. While in everyday use the term assault may be used to describe a physical attack, this is indeed a battery. An assault is causing someone to apprehend that you will commit a battery. This issue is so prevalent that the crime of sexual assault would be better labelled a sexual battery. This confusion stems from the fact that both assault and battery can be referred to as common assault.\n\nThere is no separate offence for a battery relating to domestic violence, however the introduction of the crime of \"controlling or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship\" in Section 76 of the Serious Crime Act 2015, has given rise to new sentencing guidelines that take into account significant aggravating factors such as abuse of trust, resulting in potentially longer sentences for acts of battery within the context of domestic violence.\n\nIn DPP v. Taylor, DPP v. Little, it was held that battery is a statutory offence, contrary to section 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988. This decision was criticised in Haystead v. DPP where the Divisional court expressed the \"obiter\" opinion that battery remains a common law offence.\n\nTherefore, whilst it may be a better view that battery and assault have statutory penalties, rather than being statutory offences, it is still the case that until review by a higher court, DPP v Little is the preferred authority.\n\nIn England and Wales, it is a usually tried as a summary offence under section 39 of The Criminal Justice Act 1988. However, where section 40 applies, it can be an additional charge on an indictment.\n\nIt is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or both.\n\nSee Crown Prosecution Service Sentencing Manual for case law on sentencing.\n\nThere is an offence which could be (loosely) described as battery in Russia. Article 116 of the Russian Criminal Code provides that battery or similar violent actions which cause pain are an offence.\n\nThere is no distinct offence of battery in Scotland. The offence of assault includes acts that could be described as battery.\n\nIn the United States, criminal battery, or simple battery, is the use of force against another, resulting in harmful or offensive contact, including sexual contact. At common law, simple battery is a misdemeanor. The prosecutor must prove all three elements beyond a reasonable doubt:\n\n\nThe common-law elements serve as a basic template, but individual jurisdictions may alter them, and they may vary slightly from state to state. \n\nUnder modern statutory schemes, battery is often divided into grades that determine the severity of punishment. For example:\n\nIn the state of Kansas battery is defined as follows:\n\nThe law on battery in Louisiana reads:\n\nIn some jurisdictions, battery has recently been constructed to include directing bodily secretions (i.e., spitting) at another person without their permission. Some of those jurisdictions automatically elevate such a battery to the charge of aggravated battery. In some jurisdictions, the charge of criminal battery also requires evidence of a mental state (\"mens rea\"). The terminology used to refer to a particular offense can also vary by jurisdiction. Some jurisdictions, such as New York, refer to what, under the common law, would be battery as assault, and then use another term for the crime that would have been assault, such as menacing.\n\nThe overt behavior of an assault might be Person A advancing upon Person B by chasing after them and swinging a fist toward their head. The overt behavior of battery might be A actually striking B.\n\nBattery requires (1) a volitional act that (2) results in a harmful or offensive contact with another person and (3) is committed for the purpose of causing a harmful or offensive contact or under circumstances that render such contact substantially certain to occur or with a reckless disregard as to whether such contact will result. Assault is an attempted battery or the act of intentionally placing a person in apprehension of a harmful or offensive contact with their person.\n\nIn some places, assault is the threat of violence against another while aggravated assault is the threat with the clear and present ability and willingness to carry it out. Likewise, battery is undesired touching of another, while aggravated battery is touching of another with or without a tool or weapon with attempt to harm or restrain.\n\n"}
{"id": "1560475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560475", "title": "Blondi", "text": "Blondi\n\nBlondi (1941 – 29 April 1945) was Adolf Hitler's German Shepherd, a gift as a puppy from Martin Bormann in 1941. Blondi stayed with Hitler even after his move into the \"Führerbunker\" located underneath the garden of the Reich Chancellery on 16 January 1945.\n\nHitler was reportedly very fond of Blondi, keeping her by his side and allowing her to sleep in his bed in the bunker. According to Hitler's secretary Traudl Junge, this affection was not shared by Eva Braun, Hitler's companion, who preferred her two Scottish Terrier dogs named Negus and Stasi.\n\nBlondi played a role in Nazi propaganda by portraying Hitler as an animal lover. Dogs like Blondi were coveted as \"\", being close to the wolf, and became very fashionable during the Nazi era. On 29 April 1945, Hitler expressed doubts about the cyanide capsules he had received through Heinrich Himmler's SS. To verify the capsules' potency, Hitler ordered Dr. Werner Haase to test one on Blondi, who died as a result.\n\nIn March or in early April (likely 4 April) 1945, she had a litter of five puppies with Gerdy Troost's German Shepherd, Harras. Hitler named one of the puppies \"Wulf\", his favorite nickname and the meaning of his own first name, Adolf (\"noble wolf\"), and he began to train her. One of Blondi's puppies was reserved for Eva Braun's sister Gretl. Eva sent Gretl a letter containing a photo of Blondi and three of her puppies, Gretl's being indicated with an arrow.\n\nDuring his military service in World War I, Hitler rescued a stray white Fox Terrier named \"Fuchsl\". Hitler had great affection for the dog, and, when he was not on duty at the front, he would spend much of his free time playing with the dog in the barracks. Hitler was profoundly distraught when he lost him.\n\nHe had been given a German Shepherd before named \"Prinz\" in 1921, during his years of poverty, but he had been forced to lodge the dog elsewhere. However, she managed to escape and return to him. Hitler, who adored the loyalty and obedience of the dog, thereafter developed a great liking for the breed.\n\nHe also owned a German Shepherd called \"Muckl\". Before Blondi, Hitler had two German Shepherd dogs, a mother [born 1926] and daughter [born ca. 1930] – both named Blonda. In some photos taken during the 1930s the younger Blonda is incorrectly labeled as Blondi (in most cases photograph descriptions were written later).\n\nIn May 1942, Hitler bought another young German Shepherd \"from a minor official in the post office in Ingolstadt\" to keep Blondi company. He called her Bella. According to Traudl Junge, Eva Braun was very fond of her two Scottish Terrier dogs named Negus and Stasi. She usually kept them away from Blondi.\n\nDuring the course of 29 April 1945, Hitler learned of the death of his ally Benito Mussolini at the hands of Italian partisans. This, along with the fact the Soviet Red Army was closing in on his location, strengthened Hitler in his resolve not to allow himself or his wife to be captured. That afternoon, Hitler expressed doubts about the cyanide capsules he had received through Heinrich Himmler's SS. By this point, Hitler regarded Himmler as a traitor. To verify the capsules' contents, Hitler—who already intended to have Blondi killed so that she did not fall into the hands of the Russians—ordered Dr. Werner Haase to test one on Blondi, and the dog died as a result. Hitler became completely inconsolable.\n\nAccording to a report commissioned by Joseph Stalin and based on eyewitness accounts, Hitler's dog-handler \"Feldwebel\" Fritz Tornow took Blondi's pups and shot them in the garden of the bunker complex on 30 April, after Hitler and Eva Braun committed suicide. He also killed Eva Braun's two dogs, Frau Gerda Christian's dogs, and his own dachshund. Tornow was later captured by the Allies. Hitler's nurse, Erna Flegel, said in 2005 that Blondi's death had affected the people in the bunker more than Eva Braun's suicide. After the battle in Berlin ended, the remains of Hitler, Braun, and two dogs (thought to be Blondi and her offspring Wulf) were discovered in a shell crater by a unit of SMERSH, the Soviet counter-intelligence agency. The dog thought to be Blondi was exhumed and photographed by the Soviets.\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "38076607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38076607", "title": "Cazador (Chilean ship)", "text": "Cazador (Chilean ship)\n\nThe Cazador was a steamboat built 1848 in France and bought 1851 by the Chilean Navy for the transport of military and cargo along the coast of Chile.\n\nOn 30 January 1856 \"Cazador\" sailed off Talcahuano bound for Valparaíso at 11:30 AM carrying the 2nd Company of the Battalion \"Maipo\" and their families. In addition, she carried supplies, horses and guns. She sailed 6 miles from the coast at 9 kn.\n\nAt 20:00 the ship was driven on reef off Point Carranza, 10 km south of Constitución.\n\nThe sinking of the \"Cazador\" resulted in the greatest single-incident maritime loss of life in the history of Chile.\n\nSources disagree on the number rescued and final death toll. The ship's captain, Ramón Cavieses, in his report gives 23 rescued and 307 dead, but author Carlos Lopéz Urrutia gives 400 dead.\n\n"}
{"id": "35718068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35718068", "title": "Chayben Abou-Nehra", "text": "Chayben Abou-Nehra\n\nChayben Abou-Nehra (1974 – 21 December 2008), also referred to as Ben Bou-Nahra, was a Belizean businessman. He had a variety of business activities, including as a 10% shareholder in Miles Tropical Energy, which had various petroleum concessions off the coast near Dangriga. He was a controversial figure both in life and in death. Charged with manslaughter after killing a man in September 2005, he absented himself from Belize at a time when the charges were upgraded to murder, returned when the charges were downgraded to manslaughter, and then walked free in 2007 when witnesses against him refused to testify. Late the following year he was found dead in his hotel room of a gunshot wound, in what may have been a suicide.\n\nOn 17 September 2005 at roughly 3:30 AM, Abou-Nehra returned to his home in King's Park, Belize City to find 23-year-old Shawn Copious in his yard. Abou-Nehra claims Copious advanced on him in a threatening manner. Abou-Nehra had a licensed 9mm pistol on his person, which he drew and fired at Copious six times, killing him. Police found a large meat cleaver on Copious' person. Copious had previously had numerous run-ins with the law, with a conviction for theft and at the time of his death also standing trial for charges of handling stolen goods. Abou-Nehra had earlier that year been accused of shooting a man at BTL Park, but no charges were filed in that incident. Copious' stepfather Lawrence Mejia spoke with Abou-Nehra after Copious' death, and described him as \"a really good man\" who showed remorse for the killing and offered what help he could to the family, but expressed confusion that his stepson's injuries were not just limited to a gunshot wound but also consisted of broken teeth, hands, and nose. Abou-Nehra offered BZ$3,000 to Copious' mother Caroline Copious to pay the burial expenses.\n\nPolice held Abou-Nehra for 48 hours, but at the time regarded the killing as a justifiable use of force and did not file charges. However, in July 2006 police charged him with manslaughter; he was represented by attorneys Kareem Musa and Ellis Arnold in his first court appearance, at which his bail was set at BZ$10,000 and he was given a September court date. As more detail about the circumstances of Copious' death came to light, specifically the fact that he had been shot in the back from five feet away, then-Senior Crown Counsel Cheryl-Lynn Branker-Taitt wrote to Criminal Investigations Bureau chief Chester Williams to recommend that Abou-Nehra be charged with murder. In December 2006, Director of Public Prosecutions Kirk Anderson instructed Commissioner of Polize Gerald Westby to charge Abou-Nehra with murder. However, at that time Abou-Nehra had already departed Belize, according to his attorney Dickie Bradley for purposes of receiving medical care. He then failed to show up for his arraignment hearing in January 2007, at which the complaint of murder was supposed to have been read. A note purporting to be from a doctor in Fort Lauderdale, Florida stated that Abou-Nehra was medically incapable of travelling. In May 2007, he was finally indicted on charges of manslaughter rather than murder. He came before Judge Troadio Gonzalez, who ordered that the case be traversed to the following month's court session due to the large backlog of defendants with charges even older than Abou-Nehra's. His bail was set at BZ$10,000.\n\nAfter Anderson stepped down, the new DPP Lutchman Sooknandan reduced Abou-Nehra's charges back to manslaughter. In July, Sooknandan had to issue a declaration of \"nolle prosequi\" because the crown counsel assigned to the case, Cecil Ramirez, had been suspended from practicing law in 2002 and 2003, leading to a question of whether he could legally work for the Office of the DPP. However, Sooknandan said that Abou-Nehra could be re-arrested on the charges. Abou-Nehra came to trial on manslaughter charges again in October. However, three police officers called as witnesses claimed they could not identify him, and the signed record of the caution statement given to Abou-Nehra went missing. Justice Adolph Lucas had no choice but to direct the jury to find Abou-Nehra not guilty of manslaughter. He berated the witnesses as \"worthless and wicked\", while Sooknandan described the police's conduct as creating \"the most shameful miscarriage of justice\" he had ever seen. Belizean law prohibits double jeopardy, meaning that there was no possibility of a further trial.\n\nIn October 2007, two of the witnesses Darius Ramos and Anthony Poloni, both constables, were charged with perjury and contradicting previous evidence; they pleaded not guilty. The DPP declined to charge the third witness, former Inspector Clement Cacho, who by then had been demoted to sergeant. An internal police tribunal later found that Ramos, Polonio, and Cacho had committed an \"Act to the Prejudice of Good Order and Discipline against the Department\". Cacho was reduced in rank and given half-pay, but later filed suit in the Supreme Court against the police department and in 2010 was awarded reinstatement and back pay.\n\nIn 2008, Abou-Nehra was on holiday up country in Cayo District with his fiancée, 22-year-old Evita Bedran, the granddaughter of late hotel magnate Escander Bedran. They went to a disco in Benque Viejo del Carmen a few miles away, where he got into an altercation. His shirt stained with blood, he then returned with Bedran to San Ignacio town and went to their hotel, the San Ignacio Resort Hotel owned by Bedran's family, in order to get a new set of clothes. After changing, he got into another altercation, this time with a security guard at the hotel. Another security guard attempted to calm the two, and got himself pistol-whipped by Abou-Nehra for his trouble, receiving a laceration to the head requiring four stitches. The two security guards filed a police report against Abou-Nehra, while Abou-Nehra himself returned to his room. By the time police arrived at the hotel, Abou-Nehra was laid out on the floor of his hotel room with a gunshot wound.\n\nAbou-Nehra was taken first to San Ignacio's Loma Luz Hospital, and then Belize City's Karl Heusner Memorial Hospital, where he was declared dead at 7 AM the following morning. His family expressed suspicion that he would have committed suicide, and requested to have their own forensic pathologist observe the autopsy at KNMH. Pathologist Mario Estradaban declined comment. He was survived by a daughter Madison, as well as his mother Maria and sister Rachelle.\n"}
{"id": "22721456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22721456", "title": "Computational sustainability", "text": "Computational sustainability\n\nComputational sustainability is a broad field that attempts to optimize societal, economic, and environmental resources using methods from mathematics and computer science fields. Sustainability in this context is the ability to produce enough energy for the world to support its biological systems. Using the power of computers to process large quantities of information, decision making algorithms allocate resources based on real-time information.\n\nApplications are widespread. Smart grids implement renewable resources and storage capabilities to control the production and expenditure of energy. Intelligent transportation system analyze road conditions and relay information to drivers so they can make smarter decisions based on real time traffic information.\n\nIntelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) seek to improve safety and travel times while minimizing greenhouse gas emissions for all travelers, though focusing mainly on drivers. ITS has two systems: one for data collection/relaying, and another for data processing. Data collection can be achieved with video cameras over busy areas, sensors that detect various pieces from location of certain vehicles to infrastructure that's breaking down, and even drivers who notice an accident and use a mobile app, like Waze, to report its whereabouts.\n\nAdvanced Public Transportation Systems (APTS) aim to make public transportation more efficient and convenient for its riders. Electronic payment methods allow users to add money to their smart cards at stations and online. APTS relay information to transit facilities about current vehicle locations to give riders expected wait times on screens at stations and directly to customers' smart phones. Advanced Traffic Management Systems (ATMS) collect information using cameras and other sensors that gather information regarding how congested roads are. Ramp meters regulate the number of cars entering highways to limit backups. Traffic signals use algorithms to optimize travel times depending on the number of cars on the road. Electronic highway signs relay information regarding travel times, detours, and accidents that may affect drivers ability to reach their destination.\n\nWith the rise of consumer connectivity, less infrastructure is needed for these ITS to make informed decisions. Google Maps uses smartphone crowdsourcing to get information about real-time traffic conditions allowing motorists to make decisions based on toll roads, travel times, and overall distance traveled. Cars communicate with their manufacturers to remotely install software updates when new features are added or bugs are being patched. Tesla Motors even uses these updates to increase their cars efficiency and performance. These connections give ITS a means to accurately collect information and even relay that information to drivers with no other infrastructure needed.\n\nFuture ITS systems will aid in car communication with not just the infrastructure, but with other cars as well.\n\nThe electrical grid was designed to send consumers electricity from electricity generators for a monthly fee based on usage. Homeowners are installing solar panels and large batteries to store the power created by these panels. A smart grid is being created to accommodate the new energy sources. Rather than just electricity being sent to a household to be consumed by the various appliances in the home, electricity can flow in either direction. Additional sensors along the grid will improve information collection and decreased downtime during power outages. These sensors can also relay information directly to consumers about how much energy they're using and what the costs will be.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50726008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50726008", "title": "Death of Lynn Messer", "text": "Death of Lynn Messer\n\nLynn Marie Messer (June 4, 1962 – July 8, 2014) was an American woman who was last seen alive during the early hours of July 8, 2014, in the Bloomsdale, Missouri farmhouse she shared with her husband. Her disappearance generated national news coverage. On November 1, 2016, her remains were found on the edge of the farm where she had lived.\n\nAt approximately 4:00 a.m. on July 8, 2014, Kerry Messer woke up to find that his wife Lynn wasn't in bed beside him. He looked around the house for her, noticing that Lynn's personal belongings - including her ID, passport, wallet, cell phone, car keys, and the walking boot she used to help protect her broken toe - were all still in the house. Kerry checked the areas around their farm where Lynn would normally be as well as the gravel pathways and roads leading to their farmhouse, and began checking locations beyond the farm that morning before his son called the sheriff's office. After 10 months of cooperation and over 40 in-person and telephone visits with law enforcement, they refused to share where they were in the investigation. The last known communication Lynn had with anyone other than her husband Kerry was a phone call she made at 11:30pm on the night of July 7.\n\nPolice quickly classified Lynn as an \"endangered person,\" given the fact that she had a broken toe at the time and left without her walking boot, leading police to speculate that she found herself in physical danger. Local police, professional Search and Rescue, K-9 Teams, highway patrol, and the FBI were called in to locate her. Search dogs picked up a scent trail leading away from the farmhouse on the day Lynn disappeared, but later that day Kerry asked his son Abram to move their herd of cows to a different field, which destroyed the scent trail. The Messer farmhouse was meticulously searched on the first day and on later dates by both local and federal authorities. No evidence indicated any harm or wrongdoing by her husband Kerry, or any indication of a break-in or struggle of any kind, leading police to believe that she hadn't been abducted. Neither the police nor Kerry believed that Lynn had decided to run away from home; she hadn't taken any personal belongings with her, she appeared to enjoy her marriage and family life, and she had recently been discussing exciting future plans such as holidays and Bible classes. After four days of intensive searching, the local Sheriff said he was convinced that Lynn was not on the farm. The official search was suspended and law enforcement supported the family as they continued searching. One of Lynn's sons and one of her brothers-in-law took over directing volunteer search teams for the next 125 days, expending thousands of man-hours in the search.\n\nIt was later revealed that Lynn had left a note prior to her disappearance, but the note's contents have yet to be released to the public. Kerry Messer had provided it to the Sheriff's personnel, but said only that \"It was some kind of note of finality, but I don't know what that means and to this day I don't understand it.\"\nHe has said also that \"the first line was an apology (...). It was an 'I'm sorry to put you through this… I love you from the bottom of my heart.'\" Kerry Messer explained that the note reveals \"some conflicts she was going through.\", although he has not explicitly stated that there was an intention of suicide in the note.\n\nLynn Messer's son, Abram Messer, said that his mother had tried to kill herself one time: \"After I asked her several times about it, she said 'I went out to the barn to kill myself, and I shot the cats instead.'\" \n\nIn the first four days, law enforcement directed the search of the farm and key surrounding areas. From that point, friends and family organized the search parties beyond the farm to try to find Lynn. However, all efforts proved unsuccessful. In the months following Lynn's disappearance, over of land were searched, missing posters were posted in Ste. Genevieve county and its surrounding counties, and a Facebook page was set up in order to try and find her. Police sorted through tips provided by members of the public, including many possible sightings that proved to be mistaken identity, but none of the tips provided any useful leads.\n\nAs hunting season approached, Kerry created a new not-for-profit educational program, \"Support The Hurting\", urging hunters, hikers, and other outdoor enthusiasts to be on the lookout for anything suspicious in the woods. His new educational approach was to promote a simple three-step approach to report unusual items which hunters and others might typically ignore. The three-step rule is: \"Don't Touch, Document Location, Report to Local Law Enforcement\".\n\nOn November 1, 2016, bones were discovered on the Messer Farm about a mile from the house. They were immediately believed to be the remains of Lynn Messer because of glasses and artificial hips found with them, and shortly afterwards they were positively identified as her by means of dental records.\n\nHer remains were examined by Dr. Mary Case. According to Jason Schott, Ste. Genevieve County Sheriff's Department Major: \"She sent a report back on what she did and from what Dr. Case could determine from the bones recovered, it does appear (Lynn) was out there for the two year time period. From the time she disappeared until the time she was discovered.\" The cause of death had not been determined and Schott said the case will remain open until it is. The body was released to the family in March 2017 and Messer was buried in a private ceremony in Greene County, Arkansas, in June.\n"}
{"id": "5756038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5756038", "title": "Digital Monster (virtual pet)", "text": "Digital Monster (virtual pet)\n\nThe Digital Monster is a digital pet released in 1997 by Bandai. This pet was a masculine counterpart to the Tamagotchi, which, despite having fans of both genders, was deemed more appropriate for girls. It spawned the Digimon franchise. It was similar to earlier virtual pets with the distinctions of being a fighting pet that could connect with others like it.\n\nThe original Digital Monster model that released in 1997 sold units worldwide, including in Japan and overseas, up until March 2004. By 2005, more than Digital Monster units were sold.\n\nThe Digimon game consist of the following functions:\n\nThe original Digimon Device has three buttons and one reset button. The buttons are located to the right of the screen. The top \"A\" button scrolls through the icons and options on the screens. The middle \"B\" button activates the selected function. The bottom \"C\" button cancels out whatever is on the screen. Pressing \"A\" and \"C\" simultaneously toggles the sound. The reset button could only be pressed with a pen or other sharp object.\n\nWhen the v-pet was brought to the US, elements such as the \"Megalithic Mainframe\" were added to soften the concept of death (thus Digimon cannot die, but instead return to a fictional world). Devimon was renamed Darkmon because of censorship and the Japanese-related reference in Monzaemon's name was removed in favor of Teddymon.\n\nIn 1998, Bandai released a follow-up virtual pet series known as Pendulums which features higher evolution levels and is the first to introduce the Jogress function which enable combination between certain type of digimons. The pendulum is used to count the number of times the device has been shaken. Five versions of the Digimon Pendulum were released which is Nature Spirit for version 1, Deep Savers for version 2, Nightmare Soldier for version 3, Wind Guardian for version 4 and finally Metal Empire for version 5. Each of these being followed by a .5 version which contained a slightly-altered character lineup. A Version 0 representing Virus Busters was also later released.\n\nPendulum Progress was the successor of the original Pendulum series. There are three in total; the Pendulum Progress is an upgrade similar to the Tamagotchi Connection. The character lineup on each is expanded and it retains the pendulum feature that became a series standard; it also has the ability to have the current monster fight a computer monster in battle as opposed to linking up with another device.\n\nThe successor of the Pendulum Progress, the Pendulum X series, was released in 2003. It combined the RPG elements of the Digivice games with the standard pet-raising. Unlike its predecessors, the Pendulum X line was accompanied by a story titled , which was told mostly through prose text interspersed with short, non-sequitur six-page manga comics printed in the booklets. There were four \"chapters\", one sold with each progressive version of the Pendulum X. \n\nIn this storyline, the Digital World is controlled by an intelligent computer named Yggdrasil. Digimon have multiplied so much that Yggdrasil is unable to handle the load and the Digital Hazard occurs. This leads to the creation of the \"New Digital World\", which consists of three layers known as Urd (past), Versandi (present), and Skuld (future). Yggdrasil then lets loose the Project Ark as well as the X Program to eliminate any Digimon it no longer wants. However, some Digimon adapt by obtaining a program called the X-Antibody, which strengthens them, changes their appearances, and immunizes them against the X Program. Yggdrasil sends in the thirteen Royal Knights to keep order in the Digital World. After that, three human boys, Kouta, Yuuji, and Shinji, find their ways into the Digital World and meet their respective partner Digimon, Dorumon, Ryuudamon and Omnimon X. Kouta and Yuuji resist Yggdrasil and the Royal Knights, while Shinji sides with the computer and the thirteen Digimon.\n\nThe Digimon Mini is modeled similarly to the original pets but at a much smaller size. The character set has been minimized and functions are limited. For example, there is no status screen to view the Digimon's hunger. The player must simply feed it when it is hungry.\n\nThe Mini also uses the three-prong connector; it is thus compatible with the Pendulum X, the Digimon Accelerator, and the Digimon iC. The third Mini updates the character roster, expanding the available Digimon from 13 to 18.\n\nDigital Monster Ver. WonderSwan is a Japanese handheld version of the original Digimon pet for the WonderSwan. It includes all of the original Digimon from the first four virtual pet devices and the first pendulum device. In this game the player can have up to eight different Digimon with them at a time. It has computer-controlled opponents to battle with. The game has the ability to connect to another WonderSwan through a special link cable. It can also hook up to the original pets through a Digimon \"dock N rock\" connector.\n"}
{"id": "44490695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44490695", "title": "Diplopora oregonensis", "text": "Diplopora oregonensis\n\nDiplopora oregonensis is a species of algae in the genus \"Diplopora\" in the family Diploporaceae. It is a unique species of marine dasycladacean algae from the Triassic period. It was discovered by George Stanley of the University of Montana, with findings published in the 1980s. It is the oldest known green algae from the United States, dated some 200 million years in age. It was obtained from sands and shales of the Wallowa volcanic archipelago, more specifically the Hurwal Formation in eastern Oregon. The strata of this formation developed from geologic processing of limestone deposits. The deposits were produced along the floors of lagoons of an ancient shallow ocean.\n"}
{"id": "3130055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3130055", "title": "Duhem–Quine thesis", "text": "Duhem–Quine thesis\n\nThe Duhem–Quine thesis, also called the Duhem–Quine problem, after Pierre Duhem and Willard Van Orman Quine, is that it is impossible to test a scientific hypothesis in isolation, because an empirical test of the hypothesis requires one or more background assumptions (also called \"auxiliary assumptions\" or \"auxiliary hypotheses\"). In recent decades the set of associated assumptions supporting a thesis sometimes is called a \"bundle of hypotheses\".\n\nThe Duhem–Quine thesis argues that no scientific hypothesis is by itself capable of making predictions. Instead, deriving predictions from the hypothesis typically requires background assumptions that several other hypotheses are correct; for example, that an experiment works as predicted or that previous scientific theory is sufficiently accurate. For instance, as evidence against the idea that the Earth is in motion, some people objected that birds did not get thrown off into the sky whenever they let go of a tree branch. Later theories of physics and astronomy, such as classical and relativistic mechanics could account for such observations without positing a fixed Earth, and in due course they replaced the static-Earth auxiliary hypotheses and initial conditions.\n\nAlthough a bundle of hypotheses (i.e. a hypothesis and its background assumptions) \"as a whole\" can be tested against the empirical world and be falsified if it fails the test, the Duhem–Quine thesis says it is impossible to isolate a single hypothesis in the bundle. One solution to the dilemma thus facing scientists is that when we have rational reasons to accept the background assumptions as true (e.g. explanatory scientific theories together with their respective supporting evidence) we will have rational—albeit nonconclusive—reasons for thinking that the theory under test probably is wrong in at least one respect if the empirical test fails.\n\nThe pioneering work of Galileo Galilei in the application of the telescope to astronomical observation met with rejection from influential sceptics. They denied the truth of his most startling reports, such as that there were mountains on the moon and satellites around Jupiter. In particular some prominent philosophers, most notoriously Cesare Cremonini, refused to look through the telescope, arguing in effect that the instrument might have introduced artefacts producing illusions of mountains or satellites invisible to the unencumbered eye. To neglect such possibilities amounted to underdetermination in which argument for optical artefacts could be urged as being of merit equal to arguments for observation of new celestial effects, whether the latter were more parsimonious or not. On a similar principle in modern times a prevalent view is that extraordinary claims demand extraordinary proof.\n\nIn the early 17th century the modern version of the Duhem–Quine thesis had not been formulated, but commonsense objections to such elaborate and ad hoc implicit auxiliary assumptions certainly could be urged. To begin with, the mechanism of the (Galilean) telescopes had been explained in terms of geometrical optics and the nature of the objects that they imaged was consistent; for example a distant lake would not resemble a tree when seen through a telescope. The behaviour of telescopes on Earth denied any basis for arguing that they could create systematic artefacts in the sky, such as apparent satellites that behaved in the predictable manner of Jovian moons. Evidence also offered no basis to suggest that they could present yet other, more elaborate artefacts, fundamentally different from the satellites, such as Lunar mountains that cast shadows varying consistently with the direction of Solar illumination. \n\nIn practice of course, the politics and theology of the day trumped common sense, but the nature of the controversy was a clear example of how different bundles of (usually implicit) auxiliary assumptions could support mutually inconsistent hypotheses concerning a single topic. In terms of either version of the Duhem–Quine thesis it therefore is necessary to study the defensibility of the auxiliary assumptions together with the primary hypotheses if one is to select the most viable working hypotheses.\n\nAs popular as the Duhem–Quine thesis may be in philosophy of science, in reality Pierre Duhem and Willard Van Orman Quine stated very different theses. Duhem believed that \"only in the field of physics\" can a single individual hypothesis not be isolated for testing. He says in no uncertain terms that experimental theory in physics is not the same as in fields like physiology and certain branches of chemistry. Also, Duhem's conception of \"theoretical group\" has its limits, since he states that not all concepts are connected to each other logically. He did not include at all \"a priori\" disciplines such as logic and mathematics within the theoretical groups in physics, since they cannot be tested.\n\nQuine, on the other hand, in \"Two Dogmas of Empiricism\", presents a much stronger version of underdetermination in science. His theoretical group embraces \"all\" of human knowledge, including mathematics and logic. He contemplated the entirety of human knowledge as being one unit of empirical significance. Hence all our knowledge, for Quine, would be epistemologically no different from ancient Greek gods, which were posited in order to account for experience.\n\nQuine even believed that logic and mathematics can also be revised in light of experience, and presented quantum logic as evidence for this. Years later he retracted this position; in his book \"Philosophy of Logic\", he said that to revise logic would be essentially \"changing the subject\". In classic logic, connectives are defined according to truth values. The connectives in a multi-valued logic, however, have a different meaning than those of classic logic. As for quantum logic, it is not even a logic based on truth values, so the logical connectives lose the original meaning of classic logic. Quine also notes that deviant logics usually lack the simplicity of classic logic, and are not so fruitful.\n\n"}
{"id": "16598780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16598780", "title": "EXPOSE", "text": "EXPOSE\n\nEXPOSE is a multi-user facility mounted outside the International Space Station dedicated to astrobiology. EXPOSE was developed by the European Space Agency (ESA) for long-term spaceflights and was designed to allow exposure of chemical and biological samples to outer space while recording data during exposure.\n\nThe results will contribute to our understanding of photobiological processes in simulated radiation climates of planets (e.g. early Earth, early and present Mars, and the role of the ozone layer in protecting the biosphere from harmful UV-B radiation), as well as studies of the probabilities and limitations for life to be distributed beyond its planet of origin. EXPOSE data support long-term \"in situ\" studies of microbes in artificial meteorites, as well as of microbial communities from special ecological niches. Some EXPOSE experiments investigated to what extent particular terrestrial organisms are able to cope with extraterrestrial environmental conditions. Others tested how organic molecules react when subjected for a prolonged period of time to unfiltered solar light.\n\nEXPOSE has several objectives, specific to each experiments, but all linked to the astrobiology domain. Their collective objective is to better understand the nature and evolution of organic matter present in extraterrestrial environments and their potential implications in astrobiology. These experiments mostly study molecules of cometary interest in order to understand the results of the Rosetta\nmission, the chemistry of Titan (Cassini–Huygens mission), or the organic chemistry of the Martian environment (Mars Science Laboratory and ExoMars project).\n\nWith the experiments onboard of the EXPOSE facilities, various aspects of astrobiology were investigated that could not be sufficiently approached by use of laboratory facilities on ground. The chemical set of experiments is designed to reach a better understanding of the role of interstellar, cometary and planetary chemistry in the origin of life. Comets and meteorites are interpreted as exogenous sources of prebiotic molecules on the early Earth. All data achieved from the astrobiological experiments on both EXPOSE missions will add to the understanding of the origin and evolution of life on Earth and on the possibility of its distribution in space or origin elsewhere.\n\nData obtained from the studies on complex organics of cometary interest will support the interpretation of \"in-situ\" data obtained from the Rosetta mission after landing on Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko in 2014, and samples analyzed by the \"Curiosity\" and \"ExoMars\" rovers on Mars. Finally the chemical experiments will contribute to the understanding of the chemical processes on Saturn's moon Titan and possible analogies to the prebiotic chemistry on the early Earth.\n\nThe biology experiments used the full extraterrestrial spectrum of solar UV radiation and suitable cut-off filters to study both, the role of the ozone layer in protecting our biosphere and the likelihood of resistant terrestrial microorganisms (extremophiles) to survive in outer space. The latter studies will provide experimental data to the lithopanspermia hypothesis, and they will provide basic data to planetary protection issues. To get better insight into the habitability of Mars, one set of samples was exposed to simulated Martian conditions (UV-radiation climate, pressure, atmosphere), with and without a protective cover of simulated Martian soil. The biological test samples selected are hardy representatives of various branches of life.\n\nThere were three EXPOSE experiments completed between 2008 and 2015: EXPOSE-E, EXPOSE-R and EXPOSE-R2. <br>\nThe EXPOSE-E was launched on February 7, 2008 on board the Space Shuttle Atlantis and was mounted on the ISS European module \"Columbus\" to the European Technology Exposure Facility (EuTEF). EXPOSE-R was launched to the ISS on November 26, 2008 from Baikonur in Kazakhstan on board of a Progress capsule and was mounted on the ISS Russian module \"Zevzda\". EXPOSE-R2 was launched\n\nEXPOSE-E provided accommodation in three exposure trays for a variety of astrobiological test samples that were exposed to selected space conditions: either to space vacuum, solar electromagnetic radiation at >110 nm and cosmic radiation (trays 1 and 3) or to simulated Martian surface conditions (tray 2). The different experiments consisted in exposing solid molecules, gas mixtures or biological samples to the solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation, cosmic rays, vacuum and temperature fluctuations of outer space as the ISS repeatedly passed between areas of direct sunlight and the cold darkness of Earth's shadow.\n\nAt the end of the exposition period, EXPOSE-E was brought back to the ground in September 2009 as part of the Space Shuttle Discovery mission STS-128. EXPOSE-R was brought back in 2011 by a Soyuz spacecraft. From the landing site in Kazakhstan, the trays were returned via Moscow and distributed to scientists for further analysis in their laboratories.\n\nEXPOSE-R2 was launched on 24 July 2014, exposure was finished on April 2015, and was returned to Earth in early 2016 where it is still undergoing analyses.\n\nThe EXPOSE-E experiments are:\n\nThe search for organic molecules at the surface of Mars is a top priority of Mars exploration space missions. Therefore, a key step in interpretation of future data collected by these missions is to understand the preservation of organic matter in the Martian environment. A 1.5-year exposure to Mars-like surface UV radiation conditions in space resulted in complete degradation of the organic compounds (glycine, serine, phthalic acid, phthalic acid in the presence of a mineral phase, and mellitic acid). Their half-lives were between 50 and 150 h for Martian surface conditions.\n\nTo understand the chemical behavior of organic molecules in the space environment, amino acids and a dipeptide in pure form and embedded in meteorite powder were exposed to space conditions for 18 months; the samples were returned to Earth and analyzed in the laboratory for reactions caused by solar UV and cosmic radiation. The results show that resistance to irradiation is a function of the chemical nature of the exposed molecules and the wavelengths of the UV light. The most altered compounds were the dipeptide, aspartic acid, and aminobutyric acid. The most resistant were alanine, valine, glycine, and aminoisobutyric acid. The results also demonstrate the protective effect of meteorite powder, which reemphasizes the importance of exogenic contribution to the inventory of prebiotic organics on early Earth.\n\nBacterial endospores of the highly UV-resistant \"Bacillus subtilis\" strain MW01 were exposed to low-Earth orbit and simulated Martian surface conditions for 559 days. It was clearly shown that solar extraterrestrial UV radiation (λ ≥110 nm) as well as the Martian UV spectrum (λ ≥200 nm) was the most deleterious factor applied; in some samples only a few spore survivors were recovered from \"B. subtilis\" MW01 spores exposed in monolayers. However, \"if shielded from solar irradiation\", about 8% of MW01 spores survived, and 100% survived in simulated Martian conditions, compared to the laboratory controls.\n\nSpore-forming bacteria are of particular concern in the context of planetary protection because their tough endospores may withstand certain sterilization procedures as well as the harsh environments of outer space or planetary surfaces. To test their hardiness on a hypothetical mission to Mars, spores of \"Bacillus subtilis\" 168 and \"Bacillus pumilus\" SAFR-032 were exposed for 1.5 years to selected parameters of space. It was clearly shown that solar extraterrestrial UV radiation (λ ≥110 nm) as well as the Martian UV spectrum (λ ≥200 nm) was the most deleterious factor applied; in some samples only a few survivors were recovered from spores exposed in monolayers. Spores in multilayers survived better by several orders of magnitude. All other environmental parameters encountered did little harm to the spores, which showed about 50% survival or more. The data demonstrate the high chance of survival of spores on a Mars mission, if protected against solar irradiation. These results will have implications for planetary protection considerations.\n\nThe mutagenic efficiency of space was also studied in spores of \"Bacillus subtilis\" 168. The data show the unique mutagenic power of space and Martian surface conditions as a consequence of DNA injuries induced by solar UV radiation and space vacuum or the low pressure of Mars. Spores exposed to space demonstrated a much broader and more severe stress response than spores exposed to simulated Martian conditions.\n\nA comparative protein analysis (proteomics) of \"Bacillus pumilus\" SAFR-032 spores indicated that proteins conferring resistant traits (superoxide dismutase) were present in higher concentration in space-exposed spores when compared to controls. Also, the first-generation cells and spores derived from space-exposed samples exhibited elevated ultraviolet-C resistance when compared with their ground control counterparts. The data generated are important for calculating the probability and mechanisms of microbial survival in space conditions and assessing microbial contaminants as risks for forward contamination and \"in situ\" life detection.\n\n\nAfter 1.5 years in space, samples were retrieved, rehydrated and spread on different culture media. The only two organisms able to grow were isolated from a sample exposed to simulated Mars conditions beneath a 0.1% T Suprasil neutral density filter and from a sample exposed to space vacuum without solar radiation exposure, respectively. The two surviving organisms were identified as \"Stichococcus sp.\" (green algae) and \"Acarospora sp\". (lichenized fungal genus). Among other fungal spores tested were \"Cryomyces antarcticus\" and \"Cryomyces minteri\", and although 60% of the cells' DNA studied remained intact after the Mars-like conditions, less than 10% of the fungi were able to proliferate and form colonies after their return to Earth. According to the researchers, the studies provide experimental information on the possibility of eukaryotic life transfer from one planet to another by means of rocks and of survival in Mars environment.\n\nCryptoendolithic microbial communities and epilithic lichens have been considered as appropriate candidates for the scenario of lithopanspermia, which proposes a natural interplanetary exchange of organisms by means of rocks that have been impact ejected from their planet of origin. A 1.5 years exposure experiment in space was performed with a variety of rock-colonizing eukaryotic organisms. Selected organisms are known to cope with the environmental extremes of their natural habitats. It was found that some —but not all— of those most robust microbial communities from extremely hostile regions on Earth are also partially resistant to the even more hostile environment of outer space, including high vacuum, temperature fluctuation, the full spectrum of extraterrestrial solar electromagnetic radiation, and cosmic ionizing radiation. Although the reported experimental period of 1.5 years in space is not comparable with the time spans of thousands or millions of years believed to be required for lithopanspermia, the data provide first evidence of the differential hardiness of cryptoendolithic communities in space.\n\n\nThe plausibility that life was imported to Earth from elsewhere was tested by subjecting plant seeds to 1.5 years of exposure to solar UV, solar and galactic cosmic radiation, temperature fluctuations, and space vacuum outside the International Space Station. Of the 2100 exposed wild-type \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" and \"Nicotiana tabacum\" (tobacco) seeds, 23% produced viable plants after being returned to Earth. Germination was delayed in seeds shielded from solar light, yet full survival was attained, which indicates that longer space travel would be possible for seeds embedded in an opaque matrix. The team conclude that a naked, seed-like entity could have survived exposure to solar UV radiation during a hypothetical transfer from Mars to Earth, and even if seeds do not survive, components (e.g., their DNA) might survive transfer over cosmic distances.\n\nAs a consequence of the high shielding by the nearby ISS, the biological samples were predominantly exposed to galactic cosmic heavy ions, while electrons and a significant fraction of protons of the radiation belts and solar wind did not reach the samples.\n\n\nR3D measured ionizing and non-ionizing radiation as well as cosmic radiation reaching the biological samples located on the EXPOSE-E. Due to errors in data transmission or temporary termination of EXPOSE power, not all data could be acquired. Radiation was not constant during the mission. At regular intervals of about 2 months, low or almost no radiation was encountered. The radiation dose during the mission was 1823.98 MJ m−2 for PAR, 269.03 MJ m−2 for UVA, 45.73 MJ m−2 for UVB, or 18.28 MJ m−2 for UVC. Registered sunshine duration during the mission was about 152 days (about 27% of mission time). The surface of EXPOSE was most likely turned away from the Sun for considerably longer time.\nThe highest daily averaged absorbed dose rate of 426 μGy per day came from the 'South Atlantic Anomaly' (SAA) region of the inner radiation belt; galactic cosmic rays (GCR) delivered a daily absorbed dose rate of 91.1 μGy per day, and the outer radiation belt (ORB) source delivered 8.6 μGy per day.\n\nExpose-R (‘R’ stands for its mounting on the Russian module Zvezda) was mounted by Russian cosmonaut's extravehicular activity on March 11, 2009 and the exposure to outer space conditions continued for 682 days until January 21, 2011, when it was brought back to Earth by the last \"Discovery Shuttle\" flight STS 133 on March 9, 2011. EXPOSE-R was equipped with three trays housing eight experiments and 3 radiation dosimeters. Each tray was loaded with a variety of biological organisms including plant seeds and spores of bacteria, fungi and ferns that were exposed to the harsh space environment for about one and a half years. The ROSE (Response of Organisms to Space Environment) group of experiments are under the coordination of the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and has been composed of scientists from different European countries, from USA and from Japan. In its 8 experiments of biological and chemical content, more than 1200 individual samples were exposed to solar ultraviolet (UV) radiations, vacuum, cosmic rays or extreme temperature variations. In their different experiments, the involved scientists are studying the question of life's origin on Earth and the results of their experiments are contributing to different aspects of the evolution and distribution of life in the Universe.\n\nThe EXPOSE-R experiments are:\n\nPictures acquired during the spacewalk #27 on the final day of exposure indicated that many of the 75 small windows had turned brown. The brown film was clearly a deposit which had precipitated inside the windows during the spaceflight. The appearance of the brown film turned out to depend on two prerequisites: solar irradiation and vacuum. As the brown film should have impacted the quantity and quality of solar light that reached the test samples, affecting the core of the scientific goals, an investigation was started to identify the properties and the root cause of the colour change. The brown film contained hydrocarbons, so an inventory was made of materials contained inside Expose-R that could possibly have delivered the contaminating volatiles.\n\nThe true chemical identity was not established, but their origin may have been substances added to adhesives, plastics and printed circuit boards.\nSince not all the windows developed a contaminating brown film, some experiments were effectively exposed:\n\n\nA third mission, called EXPOSE-R2, was launched on 24 July 2014 aboard the Russian Progress M-24M, carrying 46 species of bacteria, fungi and arthropods, in 758 different samples that were exposed to different conditions, under different filters, and for various time periods. It was attached on 18 August 2014 to the exterior of the ISS on the Russian module Zvezda, and exposure was finished on 3 February 2016, and were stored inside the ISS until their return to Earth on 18 June 2016. Two main experiments (BIOMEX and BOSS) tested a desert strain of cyanobacterium called \"Chroococcidiopsis\" and \"Deinococcus geothermalis\", as well as bacteria, yeast (including Kombucha culture), archaea, algae, fungi, lichens and mosses, while the Biochip experiment will test affinity receptors to biomolecules. The organisms and organic compounds were exposed to partial and full space conditions for 12 to 18 months, and were returned to Earth in early 2016 for analyses.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8063330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8063330", "title": "Earl Devore", "text": "Earl Devore\n\nFrancis \"Earl\" Devore (December 2, 1889 in Macksville, Kansas – November 12, 1928) was an American racecar driver. Devore and fellow driver Norman Batten were aboard the SS \"Vestris\" when it sank. He is credited with saving the lives of his wife, and Batten's wife. Both Batten and Devore were lost at sea. Reports indicate that Devore was eaten by a shark in the icy waters.\n\n"}
{"id": "33349014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33349014", "title": "Eternal Silence (sculpture)", "text": "Eternal Silence (sculpture)\n\nEternal Silence, alternatively known as the Dexter Graves Monument or the Statue of Death, is a monument in Chicago's Graceland Cemetery and features a bronze sculpture set upon, and backdropped by, black granite. It was created by American sculptor Lorado Taft in 1909.\n\nThe monument commemorates Dexter Graves, who in 1831 led a group of thirteen families from Ohio to settle in Chicago. Graves died in 1844, 75 years before the statue's creation and 16 years before Graceland Cemetery was founded. His body was presumably relocated from its original resting place at the old City Cemetery (the present site of Lincoln Park). The will of Graves' son Henry, who died in 1907, provided $250,000 in funds for the monument and another $40,000 intended to commemorate Henry's favorite race horse, Ike Cook. The Cook monument was to stand alongside a drinking fountain for horses in Washington Park. The horse monument never materialized, despite the construction of a model; instead, in 1920, another Taft piece, \"Fountain of Time\", was built in its place and features a hooded figure similar to the one in \"Eternal Silence\".\n\nAda Bartlett Taft's 1946 book \"Lorado Taft; Sculptor and Citizen\" lists \"Eternal Silence\" as one of the artist's most important works. Images of \"Eternal Silence\" have been used in other artworks, including those by Claes Oldenburg. One folktale claims that looking into the eyes of the statue's hooded figure causes the viewer to see a vision of his or her own death.\n\n\"Eternal Silence\" has been called \"eerie\", \"somber\", \"grim-looking\", \"mysterious\", and \"haunting\". The bronze figure, based on traditional depictions of the Grim Reaper, is set against a black granite base and stands tall upon that base. The black granite provides contrast for the bronze statue, which is heavily oxidized because of its age. The cemetery used to shine the statue to return its true bronze patina but received many complaints and requests to return it to its more dramatic green sheen; the cemetery now keeps the statue in its preferred oxidized state. The hooded figure was influenced by Taft's own \"ideas on death and silence\". Historically speaking, the figure in \"Eternal Silence\" is related to the sculpted funeral procession around the Tomb of Philip the Bold in Dijon, France and the Adams Memorial by Augustus Saint-Gaudens in Washington, D.C. The statue is considered famous and has been noted as Graceland Cemetery's most \"unforgettable\" monument. The monument was designed by Taft and cast by Jules Bercham. On its base, Taft inscribed the north side with his signature; the south side is inscribed with \"Am. Art Bronze Foundry J. Bercham -Chicago-\". The monument falls within Art Nouveau style.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20016707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20016707", "title": "Fear of ghosts", "text": "Fear of ghosts\n\nThe fear of ghosts in many human cultures is based on beliefs that some ghosts may be malevolent towards people and dangerous (within the range of all possible attitudes, including mischievous, benign, indifferent, etc.). It is related to fear of the dark.\n\nThe fear of ghosts is sometimes referred to as phasmophobia and erroneously spectrophobia, the latter being an established term for fear of mirrors and one's own reflections.\n\nThe fear of ghosts is widespread even in post-industrial societies. Philosopher Peter van Inwagen wrote:\n\n\"...I am perfectly aware that the fear of ghosts is contrary to science, reason and religion. If I were sentenced to spend a night alone in a graveyard, <...> I should already know that twigs would snap and the wind moan and that there would be half-seen movements in the darkness. And yet, after I had been frog-marched into the graveyard, I should feel a thrill of fear every time one of these things happened...\"\nIn many traditional accounts, ghosts are often thought to be deceased people looking for vengeance, or imprisoned on earth for bad things they did during life. The appearance of a ghost has often been regarded as an omen or portent of death. Seeing one's own ghostly double or doppelgänger is a related omen of death.\n\nWari', an Amazon rainforest tribe, believe that the spirits of dead people may appear as scaring specters called \"jima\". The jima is said to grab a person with very strong, cold and poisonous hands and try to pull the person's spirit away.\n\nA 19th-century missionary describes the fear of ghosts among Papuans as follows:\n\n\"That a great fear\nof ghosts prevails among the Papuans is intelligible. Even\nby day they are reluctant to pass a grave, but nothing\nwould induce them to do so by night. For the dead\nare then roaming about in their search for \"gambier\" and\ntobacco, and they may also sail out to sea in a canoe.\nSome of the departed, above all the so-called \"Mambrie\" or\nheroes, inspire them with especial fear. In such cases for\nsome days after the burial you may hear about sunset a\nsimultaneous and horrible din in all the houses of all the\nvillages, a yelling, screaming, beating and throwing of sticks;\nhappily the uproar does not last long: its intention is to\ncompel the ghost to take himself off: they have given him\nall that befits him, namely, a grave, a funeral banquet, and\nfuneral ornaments; and now they beseech him not to thrust\nhimself on their observation any more, not to breathe any\nsickness upon the survivors, and not to kill them or \"fetch\"\nthem, as the Papuans put it.\"\nOnryō (怨霊) is a Japanese ghost (\"yurei\") who is able to return to the physical world in order to seek vengeance. While male onryō can be found, mainly in kabuki theatre, the majority are women, powerless in the physical world, they often suffer at the capricious whims of their male lovers. In death they become strong. Goryō are vengeance ghosts from the aristocratic classes, especially those who have been martyred.\n\nFear of ghosts, their vengeance and mischief is a common base for a plot in the ghost story literary genre and in ghost movies.\nIn cartoons and comics, Casper's efforts to make friends is hampered by humans, animals and even inanimate objects irrationally panicking, screaming and running away at the sight of him. It may be said that the characters Shaggy and Scooby from the TV and movie franchise \"Scooby-Doo\" suffer from phasmophobia, with the added joke that the ghosts they encountered were usually criminals masquerading as ghosts, specifically preying on people's phasmophobia as a cover for their criminal activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "27718126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27718126", "title": "Formosa Expedition", "text": "Formosa Expedition\n\nThe Formosa Expedition, or the Taiwan Expedition of 1867 was a punitive expedition launched by the United States against Formosa. The expedition was undertaken in retaliation for the Rover incident, in which the \"Rover\", an American bark, had been wrecked and its crew massacred by aboriginal Paiwan warriors in March 1867. A United States Navy and Marine company landed in southern Formosa and attempted to advance into the native village. The natives deployed a significant amount of guerrilla warfare, which they ambushed, skirmished, disengaged and retreated repeatedly. Eventually the Marines ceased their pursuit when their commander was killed, and retreated back to their ship due to fatigue and heat exhaustion. The event is regarded as a failure in United States naval history.\n\nOn 12 March 1867, the United States merchantman \"Rover\" was sailing off Oluanpi, Formosa when she wrecked on an uncharted reef and began drifting out to sea. Her crew of over two dozen safely made it ashore but were attacked and killed by the Paiwanans. The Royal Navy ship reached the \"Koalut country\" on March 26, discovered the fate of the \"Rover\" and informed the American East India Station. Squadron commander Rear Admiral Henry H. Bell ordered Commander John C. Febiger in the newly commissioned gunboat to proceed from Foochow to the island for an investigation of the incident.\n\nUpon arrival Qing authorities assured Commander Febiger that the attack was carried out by warriors of a village that did not practice respect of the nation's laws. With this information, \"Ashuelot\" returned and notified Rear Admiral Bell. The American consul to Amoy, C. W. Le Gendre, had spent the month of April trying to establish communication with the tribes but the Koaluts remained hostile.\n\nAt this point, diplomatic pressure proved a failure. After a delay of three months and \"a good deal of red tapeism in Washington\", a punitive expedition was decided on. Bell, with the screw sloop-of-war and his flagship left Shanghai in June for southern Formosa.\n\nThe passing from Shanghai to Formosa was uneventful, the two Americans warships arriving off the southeastern coast on 13 June 1867. The sloops anchored a half-mile off the shore and made preparations for landing. A total of 181 officers, sailors and marines were landed by boat. They were commanded by Commander George E. Belknap of \"Hartford\" and seconded by Lieutenant Commander Alexander Slidell MacKenzie. When on land the company was broken up into two forces, one commanded by Belknap and the other by Mackenzie. Captain James Forney directed the marines, twenty of whom were deployed as skirmishers in the front of the columns. Their objective was to defeat the aboriginals decisively and to capture their village. Formosa is a tropical island, very hot and humid in the summer, with mountainous jungle on the east and plains in the west. This made the march through the jungle difficult for the Americans who wore heavy uniforms designed for keeping men warm at sea.\nAfter marching for nearly an hour, the Formosans attacked with muskets from concealed positions on top of a hill directly in front of the American columns. Though difficult to see, the U.S. expedition later reported that the Formosan warriors wore colorful face paint and were armed with spears and some firearms. Lieutenant MacKenzie's force engaged first by immediately charging the Formosan ambush but the natives fled before the Americans had time to climb the hill. The expedition continued further and was ambushed again so once more the Americans charged and captured the position but without inflicting losses on the enemy. As the expedition continued on to the village, the Formosans ambushed the Americans several times but did not actually hit them.\n\nIt was not until the last action that the first and only American casualty was sustained: the warriors fired a volley and a musket ball hit Lieutenant Mackenzie, mortally wounding him. After the volley the Formosans retreated again but the Americans chose not to pursue. By this time, after six hours of marching, several men had either grown delirious or passed out from the heat so the expedition returned to the ship.\n\nWhen they arrived back at shore, the sailors and marines boarded their ships and then sailed back to China having failed to complete their objectives. Formosan casualties were minimal if any; no bodies were found by the Americans.\n\nAdmiral Bell and other American officers stated in their reports that the only way to make the region safe would be to drive out the natives and put the area under control of a powerful ally. American diplomat C.W. Le Gendre persuaded Governor General Liu of Foochow to send his own expedition to Formosa. He also requested that Rear Admiral Bell send a gunboat in support of the operation but this was denied. Le Gendre took command of the Chinese troops and left Foochow for southern Formosa on 25 July 1867. In September, Le Gendre arrived at Taiwanfu (the capital city, modern-day Tainan) to announce the object of his visit and take delivery of the Amoy viceroy's promises of assistance. According to his report, Le Gendre marched to the tribal capital and negotiated a treaty () with Chief Tauketok (also Tokitok; ) to assure the safe conduct of shipwrecked sailors throughout the Paiwan chiefdom.\n\nAttacks on wrecked merchant ships by Formosan natives did however continue. The Mudan Incident of 1871, where 54 shipwrecked Ryūkyūan sailors were captured and beheaded at the southeastern tip of Formosa, resulted in the Taiwan Expedition of 1874 in which the Japanese military campaigned against the Paiwanans. The Japanese succeeded in engaging the Paiwanan warriors in battle and received compensation from the Qing government for the massacre. From late 1867-early 1868, Bell was appointed commander of the new Asiatic Squadron and while supporting the Opening of Japan, he anchored off Osaka to increase pressure on the Japanese government to open Hyogo on 1 January 1868 as previously scheduled. On 11 January, in attempts to force the Japanese at Kobe to comply with American merchant trade, rear-Admiral Bell was killed along with all but three of the men after their vessel was overturned.\n\n"}
{"id": "423602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423602", "title": "Gibbeting", "text": "Gibbeting\n\nA gibbet is any instrument of public execution (including guillotine, executioner's block, impalement stake, hanging gallows, or related scaffold), but gibbeting refers to the use of a gallows-type structure from which the dead or dying bodies of criminals were hung on public display to deter other existing or potential criminals. Occasionally the gibbet was also used as a method of execution, with the criminal being left to die of exposure, thirst and/or starvation. The term \"gibbet\" may also be used to refer to the practice of placing a criminal on display within a gibbet. This practice is also called \"hanging in chains\".\n\nGibbeting was a common law punishment, which a judge could impose in addition to execution. This practice was regularised in England by the Murder Act 1751, which empowered judges to impose this for murder. It was most often used for traitors, murderers, highwaymen, pirates, and sheep stealers and was intended to discourage others from committing similar offences. The structures were therefore often placed next to public highways (frequently at crossroads) and waterways.\n\nExhibiting a body could backfire against a monarch, especially if the monarch was unpopular. The rebels Henry of Montfort and Henry of Wylynton, enemies of Edward II, were drawn and hanged before being exhibited on a gibbet near Bristol. However, the people made relics of these bloody and mutilated remains out of respect and later used the relics in violent protest. Miracles were even reported at the spot where the bodies were hanging.\n\nAlthough the intention was deterrence, the public response was complex. Samuel Pepys expressed disgust at the practice. There was Christian objection that prosecution of criminals should end with their death. The sight and smell of decaying corpses was offensive and regarded as \"pestilential\", so it was seen as a threat to public health.\n\nPirates were sometimes executed by hanging on a gibbet erected close to the low-water mark by the sea or a tidal section of a river. Their bodies would be left dangling until they had been submerged by the tide three times. In London, Execution Dock is located on the north bank of the River Thames in Wapping; after tidal immersion, particularly notorious criminals' bodies could be hung in cages a little farther downstream at either Cuckold's Point or Blackwall Point, as a warning to other waterborne criminals of the possible consequences of their actions (such a fate befell Captain William Kidd in May 1701). There were objections that these displays offended foreign visitors and did not uphold the reputation of the law, though the scenes even became gruesome tourist attractions.\n\nIn some cases, the bodies would be left until their clothes rotted or even until the bodies were almost completely decomposed, after which the bones would be scattered.\n\nIn cases of drawing and quartering, the body of the criminal was cut into four or five portions, with the several parts often gibbeted in different places.\nSo that the public display might be prolonged, bodies were sometimes coated in tar or bound in chains. Sometimes, body-shaped iron cages were used to contain the decomposing corpses. For example, in March 1743 in the town of Rye, East Sussex, Allen Grebell was murdered by John Breads. Breads was imprisoned in the Ypres Tower and then hanged, after which his body was left to rot for more than 20 years in an iron cage on Gibbet Marsh. The cage and Breads' skull are still kept in the town hall.\n\nAnother example of the cage variation is the gibbet iron, on display at the Atwater Kent Museum in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The cage, created in 1781, was intended to be used to display the body of convicted pirate Thomas Wilkinson, so that sailors on passing ships might be warned of the consequences of piracy; Wilkinson's planned execution never took place, so the gibbet was never used.\n\nAn example of an iron cage used to string up bodies on a gibbet can still be seen in the Westgate Museum at Winchester.\n\nThe Old Testament (Torah) law forbids gibbeting beyond sundown of the day that the body is hanged on the tree. Public crucifixion with prolonged display of the body after death can be seen as a form of gibbeting. Gibbeting was one of the methods said by Tacitus and Cassius Dio to have been used by Boudica's army in the massacre of Roman settlers in the destruction of Camulodunum (Colchester), Londinium (London) and Verulamium (St. Albans) in AD 60–61.\n\nBeing a seafaring nation in the 17th and 18th centuries, Bermuda inherited many of the same customs as England, including the gibbet. Located in Smith's Parish at the entrance to Flatt's Inlet is Gibbet Island, which was used to hang the bodies of escaped slaves as a deterrent to others. The small island was used for this purpose because it was not on the mainland and therefore satisfied the superstitious beliefs of locals who did not want gibbets near their homes.\n\nMarie-Josephte Corriveau (1733–1763), better known as \"La Corriveau\", is one of the most popular figures in Québécois folklore. She lived in New France, was sentenced to death by a British court martial for the murder of her second husband, and was hanged for it, and her body was hung in chains. Her story has become legendary in Quebec, and she is the subject of numerous books and plays.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars, the Royal Navy used Hangman's Beach on McNab's Island in Halifax Harbour to display the hanged bodies of deserters, in order to deter the crews of passing warships.\n\nA rocky outcrop not far into Port Jackson - originally called Mat-te-wan-ye in the local Aboriginal language, later renamed Rock Island by Governor Arthur Phillip but today known as Pinchgut Island, and the location of Fort Denison - was a gibbeting site. It took its name after a convict Thomas Hill was sentenced to a week on the rock in iron chains sustained by only bread and water; the conditions literally pinched his gut, hence the name. The rock was levelled in the 1790s, and a gibbet installed in 1796. Francis Morgan, transported for life to New South Wales after being convicted of murder in 1793, killed again in 1796 and was hung in chains on Pinchgut in November 1796. His dead body, later a skeleton, remained on display on the island for four years.\n\nThe body of Oliver Cromwell was gibbeted after his death, after monarchists disinterred it during the restoration of the monarchy. Robert Aske, who led the rebellion against Henry VIII known as Pilgrimage of Grace, was hanged in chains in 1537.\n\nThe leaders of the Anabaptist movement in Münster were executed in 1536, and their dead bodies were gibbeted in iron cages hanging from the steeple of St. Lambert's Church, and the cages are still on display there today. Similarly, following his execution by hanging in 1738, the corpse of Jewish financier Joseph Süß Oppenheimer was gibbeted in a human-sized bird cage that hung outside of Stuttgart on the so-called Pragsattel (the public execution place at the time) for six years, until the inauguration of Karl Eugen, Duke of Württemberg, who permitted the hasty burial of his corpse at an unknown location.\n\nIn 838, Babak Khorramdin had his hands and feet cut off and was then gibbeted alive while sewn into a cow's skin with the horns at ear level to crush his head gradually as the skin dried out.\n\nOn 4 February 1820 six British pirates were hanged on their vessel in the middle of the harbour at Valetta. Thereafter their bodies were hung in gibbets erected at the bastions of Fort Ricolli. Lieutenant Hobson of , in the tender \"Frederick\", had apprehended them and their vessel in the harbour at Smyrna.\n\nWhile still under British rule Bird Island and Nix's Mate island in Boston Harbor were used for gibbeting pirates and sailors executed for crimes in Massachusetts. Their bodies were left hanging as a warning to sailors coming into the harbor and approaching Boston. About 1755 a slave named Mark was hanged and gibbeted in Charlestown, Massachusetts; twenty years later Paul Revere passed the remains of Mark on his famous ride.\n\nAfter independence, a gang of Cuban pirates was gibbeted in New York ca. 1815.\n\nThe January 1921 issue of \"National Geographic Magazine\" contains two photographs of gibbet cages, referenced as \"man-cages,\" in use in Afghanistan. Commentary included with the photograph indicates that the gibbet was a practice still in active use. Persons sentenced to death were placed alive in the cage and remained there until some undefined time weeks or months after their deaths. \n\nIn 1837, five years after the practice had ceased in England, the body of John McKay was gibbeted near the spot where he had murdered Joseph Wilson near Perth, Tasmania. There was great outcry, but the body was not removed until an acquaintance of Wilson passed the spot and, horrified by the spectacle of McKay's rotting corpse, pleaded with the authorities to remove it. The place where this occurred was just to the right (when travelling towards Launceston, not to be confused with the private road with the same name) on the Midlands Highway on the northern side of Perth. It is the last case of gibbetting in a British colony.\n\nThe Murder Act 1751 stipulated that \"in no case whatsoever shall the body of any murderer be suffered to be buried\"; the cadaver was either to be publicly dissected or left \"hanging in chains\". The use of gibbeting had been in decline for some years before it was formally repealed by statute in 1834. In Scotland, the final case of gibbeting was that of Alexander Gillan in 1810. The last two men gibbeted in England were William Jobling and James Cook, both in 1832. Their cases are good examples of the changing attitudes toward the practice.\n\nWilliam Jobling was a miner hanged and gibbeted for the murder of Nicholas Fairles, a colliery owner and local magistrate, near Jarrow, Durham. After being hanged, the body was taken off the rope and loaded into a cart and taken on a tour of the area before arriving at Jarrow Slake, where the crime had been committed. Here, the body was placed into an iron gibbet cage. The cage and the scene were described thus:\n\nThe gibbet was a foot in diameter with strong bars of iron up each side. The post was fixed into a one-and-a-half-ton stone base sunk into the Slake. The body was soon removed by fellow miners and given a decent burial.\n\nJames Cook was a bookbinder convicted of the murder of his creditor Paas, a manufacturer of brass instruments, in Leicester. He was executed on Friday, 10 August 1832, in front of Leicester prison. Afterwards:\n\nHis body was to be displayed on a purpose-built gallows 33 ft high in Saffron Lane near the Aylestone Tollgate. According to \"The Newgate Calendar\":\nAlthough the practice of gibbeting had been abandoned by 1834 in Britain, during the British Raj of India in 1843, Charles James Napier threatened to have such structures built in parallel to any attempt to practice Sati, the ritualized burning of widows, to execute the perpetrators.\n\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "18263923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18263923", "title": "Improvision", "text": "Improvision\n\nImprovision is a software developer based in Coventry, England. The company is the developer of Confocal, live cell imaging solutions and image analysis software for 2D, 3D and 4D imaging.\n\nImprovision was founded in 1990 by Ken Salisbury, Andrew Waterfall and John Zeidler. Improvision was acquired by PerkinElmer on 2 April 2007, in a cash transaction.\n\nThe company is based in Coventry, England, and it develops and sells scientific imaging equipment and software including confocal microscopy systems and image analysis software (Volocity) for the Life Sciences industry.\n\nIn 2004, Improvision was runner-up in the Apple Design Awards for Best Mac OS X Scientific Computing Solution for their Volocity 2.6.1 software release.\nIn 2002, it was a winner in the annual Lord Stafford Awards for Innovation.\n\nIn April 2000, Improvision received a Queen's Award for Enterprise, the highest honour which can be given to a UK company, in recognition of outstanding achievement in export sales.\n\n"}
{"id": "48753248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48753248", "title": "Inappropriateness", "text": "Inappropriateness\n\nInappropriateness refers to standards or ethics that are typically viewed as being negative in society. It differs from things that are illicit in that inappropriate behavior does not necessarily have any accompanying legal ramifications.\n\nSynonyms of inappropriate include \"improper\", \"unbefitting\", and \"unsuitable\". Although social ills are usually outlawed in wider society, there are many examples wherein various jurisdictions give their inhabitants full discretion over certain aspects of their lives so they can police themselves without any intrusiveness. For instance although it is legal to flatulate in a crowded elevator, there are strong social pressures not to do so. Other socially contentious behavior, such as smoking while pregnant may procure a statement from a public health organization rather than from a law enforcement organization. The term has also been used to negatively refer to the usage of recreational drugs. Increasingly, the term is used in the context of sexual misconduct, especially touching of erogenous zones such as the genitalia.\n\nIn the United States, the Supreme Court has ruled in \"FCC v. Pacifica Foundation\" (1978) that the Federal Communications Commission has the power to punish constitutionally protected but \"indecent\" expression on radio and broadcast television. The FCC released guidelines on indecency in 2001. The radio and television broadcast of indecent material is prohibited between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m.\n\n"}
{"id": "5824627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5824627", "title": "Inheritance tax", "text": "Inheritance tax\n\nAn inheritance or estate tax is a tax paid by a person who inherits money or property or a levy on the estate (money and property) of a person who has died.\n\nInternational tax law distinguishes between an estate tax and an inheritance tax—an estate tax is assessed on the assets of the deceased, while an inheritance tax is assessed on the legacies received by the estate's beneficiaries. However, this distinction is not always observed; for example, the UK's \"inheritance tax\" is a tax on the assets of the deceased, and strictly speaking is therefore an estate tax. \n\nFor historical reasons, the term death duty is still used colloquially (though not legally) in the UK and some Commonwealth countries.\n\n\nSome jurisdictions formerly had estate or inheritance taxes, but have abolished them:\n\nSome jurisdictions have never levied any form of tax in the event of death:\n\nInheritance tax was introduced with effect from 18 March 1986.\n\nSuccession duty, in the English fiscal system, is \"a tax placed on the gratuitous acquisition of property which passes on the death of any person, by means of a transfer from one person (called the predecessor) to another person (called the successor)\". In order properly to understand the present state of the English law it is necessary to describe shortly the state of affairs prior to the Finance Act 1894 — an act which effected a considerable change in the duties payable and in the mode of assessment of those duties.\n\nThe Succession Duty Act 1853 was the principal act that first imposed a succession duty in England. By that act a duty varying from 1% to 10% according to the degree of consanguinity between the predecessor and successor was imposed upon every succession which was defined as \"every past or future disposition of property by reason whereof any person has or shall become beneficially entitled to any property, or the income thereof, upon the death of any person dying after the time appointed for the commencement of this act, either immediately or after any interval, either certainly or contingently, and either originally or by way of substitutive limitation and every devolution by law of any beneficial interest in property, or the income thereof, upon the death of any person dying after the time appointed for the commencement of this act to any other person in possession or expectancy\". The property which is liable to pay the duty is in realty or leasehold estate in the UK and personalty—not subject to legacy duty—which the beneficiary claims by virtue of English, Scottish, or Irish law. Personalty in England bequeathed by a person domiciled abroad is not subject to succession duty. Successions of a husband or a wife, successions where the principal value is under £100, and individual successions under £20, are exempt from duty. Leasehold property and personalty directed to be converted into real estate are liable to succession, not to legacy duty.\n\nSpecial provision is made for the collection of duty in the cases of joint tenants and where the successor is also the predecessor. The duty is a first charge on property, but if the property be parted with before the duty is paid the liability of the successor is transferred to the alienee. It is, therefore, usual in requisitions on title before conveyance, to demand for the protection of the purchaser the production of receipts for succession duty, as such receipts are an effectual protection notwithstanding any suppression or misstatement in the account on the footing of which the duty was assessed or any insufficiency of such assessment. The duty is by this act directed to be assessed as follows: on personal property, if the successor takes a limited estate, the duty is assessed on the principal value of the annuity or yearly income estimated according to the period during which he is entitled to receive the annuity or yearly income, and the duty is payable in four yearly instalments free from interest. If the successor takes absolutely he pays in a lump-sum duty on the principal value. On real property the duty is payable in eight half-yearly instalments without interest on the capital value of an annuity equal to the annual value of the property. Various minor changes were made. The Customs and Inland Revenue Act 1881 exempted personal estates under 300. The Customs and Inland Revenue Act 1888 charged an additional 1% on successions already paying 1% and an additional 11% on successions paying more than 1%. By the Customs and Inland Revenue Act 1889, an additional duty of 1% called an \"estate duty\" was payable on successions over 10,000.\n\nThe Finance Acts 1894 and 1909 effected large changes in the duties payable on death. As regards the succession duties they enacted that payment of the estate duties thereby created should include payment of the additional duties mentioned above. Estates under £1,000 (£2,000 in the case of widow or child of deceased) are exempted from payment of any succession duties. The succession duty payable under the Succession Duty Act 1853 was in all cases to be calculated according to the principal value of the property, i.e., its selling value, and though still payable by instalments interest at 3% is chargeable. The additional succession duties are still payable in cases where the estate duty is not charged, but such cases are of small importance and in practice are not as a rule charged.\n\nThe United States imposed a succession duty by the War Revenue Act of 1898 on all legacies or distributive shares of personal property exceeding $10,000. This was a tax on the privilege of succession, and devises and land distributions of land were unaffected. The duty ran from 75 cents on the $100 to $5 on the $100, if the legacy or share in question did not exceed $25,000. On those over that value, the rate was multiplied 11 times on estates up to $100,000, twofold on those from $100,000 to $200,000, 21 times on those from $500,000 to a $1 million, and threefold for those exceeding a million. This statute was upheld as constitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nMany of the states also impose succession duties, or transfer taxes; generally, however, on collateral and remote successions; sometimes progressive, according to the amount of the succession. The state duties generally touch real estate successions as well as those to personal property. If a citizen of state \"A\" owns registered bonds of a corporation chartered by state \"B\", which he has put for safe keeping in a deposit vault in state \"C\", his estate may thus have to pay four succession taxes, one to state \"A\", to which he belongs and which, by legal fiction, is the seat of all his personal property; one to state \"B\", for permitting the transfer of the bonds to the legatees on the books of the corporation; one to state \"C\", for allowing them to be removed from the deposit vault for that purpose; and one to the United States.\n\nThe different U.S. states all have other regulations regarding inheritance tax:\nSome U.S. states impose inheritance or estate taxes (see inheritance tax at the state level):\n\n\nIn some jurisdictions, when assets are transferred by inheritance, any unrealized increase in asset value is subject to capital gains tax, payable immediately. This is the case in Canada, which has no inheritance tax.\n\nWhen a jurisdiction has both capital gains tax and inheritance tax, inheritances are generally exempt from capital gains tax.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, like Austria, death gives rise to the local equivalent of gift tax. This was the UK model before the Inheritance Tax in 1986 was introduced, when estates were charged to a form of gift tax called Capital Transfer Tax. Where a jurisdiction has both gift tax and inheritance tax, it is usual to exempt inheritances from gift tax. Also, it is common for inheritance taxes to share some features of gift taxes, by taxing some transfers which happen during the lifetime of the giver rather than on death. The UK, for example, subjects \"lifetime chargeable transfers\" (usually gifts to trusts) to inheritance tax.\n\nNo inheritance tax was recorded for the Roman Republic, despite abundant evidence for testamentary law. The \"vicesima hereditatium\" (\"twentieth of inheritance\") was levied by Rome's first emperor, Augustus, in the last decade of his reign. The 5% tax applied only to inheritances received through a will, and close relatives were exempt from paying it, including the deceased's grandparents, parents, children, grandchildren, and siblings. The question of whether a spouse was exempt was complicated—from the late Republic on, husbands and wives kept their own property scrupulously separate, since a Roman woman remained part of her birth family and not under the legal control of her husband. Roman social values on marital devotion probably exempted a spouse. Estates below a certain value were also exempt from the tax, according to one source, but other evidence indicates that this was only the case in the early years of Trajan's reign.\n\nTax revenues went into a fund to pay military retirement benefits (\"aerarium militare\"), along with those from a new sales tax (\"centesima rerum venalium\"), a 1 tax% on goods sold at auction. The inheritance tax is extensively documented in sources pertaining to Roman law, inscriptions, and papyri. It was one of three major indirect taxes levied on Roman citizens in the provinces of the Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "22791652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22791652", "title": "Jim Bartley", "text": "Jim Bartley\n\nJames William Edward Bartley (baptised 28 May 1902 – 21 September 1939) was an English professional footballer of the 1920s.\n\nBartley was born in Coseley, Staffordshire, the son of George and Eliza Bartley. In 1916, during the First World War, his father died in Mesopotamia of wounds received while serving with the North Staffordshire (Prince of Wales's) Regiment. Bartley joined Gillingham from Bilston United in 1926. He made his debut for the club in September of the same year against Aberdare Athletic and played in the next three matches, but was then out of the team for six months. He returned to the team in April 1927 against Exeter City and played five more times that season, but played only once in 1927–28 and twice in 1928–29.\n\nBartley had a further run of eight games in the Gillingham team in September and October 1929, but after two further games later that season, he left to join Canterbury Waverley.\n\nBartley later ran a pub, the Good Intent, in Gillingham. In September 1939, \"after a period of indifferent health\", he died unexpectedly at age 37, the same age his father died. He was survived by a widow and two children.\n"}
{"id": "219048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219048", "title": "John Bingham, 7th Earl of Lucan", "text": "John Bingham, 7th Earl of Lucan\n\nRichard John Bingham, 7th Earl of Lucan (18 December 1934 – disappeared 8 November 1974), commonly known as Lord Lucan, was a British peer who disappeared after being suspected of murder. He was an Anglo-Irish aristocrat, the eldest son of George Bingham, 6th Earl of Lucan by his mother, Kaitlin Dawson. An evacuee during the Second World War, Lucan returned to attend Eton College, and then from 1953 to 1955 served with the Coldstream Guards in West Germany. He developed a taste for gambling and, skilled at backgammon and bridge, became an early member of the Clermont Club. Although his losses often exceeded his winnings, he left his job at a London-based merchant bank and became a professional gambler. He was known as Lord Bingham from April 1949 until January 1964, during his father's lifetime.\n\nOnce considered for the role of James Bond in the cinematic adaptations of Ian Fleming's novels, Lucan was known for his expensive tastes; he raced power boats and drove an Aston Martin. In 1963 he married Veronica Duncan, by whom he had three children. When the marriage collapsed late in 1972, he moved out of the family home at 46 Lower Belgrave Street, in London's Belgravia, to a property nearby. A bitter custody battle ensued, which Lucan lost. He began to spy on his wife and record their telephone conversations, apparently obsessed with regaining custody of the children. This fixation, combined with his gambling losses, had a dramatic effect on his life and personal finances.\n\nOn the evening of 7 November 1974, the children's nanny, Sandra Rivett, was bludgeoned to death in the basement of the Lucan family home. Lady Lucan was also attacked; she later identified Lucan as her assailant. As the police began their murder investigation, Lucan telephoned his mother, asking her to collect the children, and then drove a borrowed Ford Corsair to a friend's house in Uckfield, East Sussex. Hours later, he left the property and vanished without trace. The car was found abandoned in Newhaven, its interior stained with blood and its boot containing a piece of bandaged lead pipe similar to one found at the crime scene. A warrant for Lucan's arrest was issued a few days later, and in his absence the inquest into Rivett's death named him as her murderer, the last occasion in Britain a coroner's court did so.\n\nWithin Britain, there has been continuing interest in Lucan's fate. Since Rivett's murder, hundreds of reported sightings have been made in various countries around the world; none have been substantiated. Despite a police investigation and huge press interest, Lucan has not been found. He was presumed deceased in chambers on 11 December 1992 and declared legally dead in October 1999; a death certificate was issued in 2016.\n\nRichard John Bingham was born on 18 December 1934 at 19 Bentinck Street, Marylebone, London, the second child and elder son of George Bingham, 6th Earl of Lucan, an Anglo-Irish peer, and his wife Kaitlin Elizabeth Anne Dawson. A blood clot found in her lung forced his mother to remain in a nursing home, so John, as he became known, was initially cared for by the family's nurserymaid. Aged three years, he attended a pre-prep school in Tite Street with his elder sister Jane, but in 1939, with war approaching, the two were taken to the relative safety of Wales. The following year, joined by their younger siblings Sally and Hugh, the Lucan children travelled to Toronto, moving shortly thereafter to Mount Kisco, New York. They stayed for five years with multi-millionairess Marcia Brady Tucker; John was enrolled at The Harvey School and spent summer holidays away from his siblings at a summer camp in the Adirondack Mountains.\n\nWhile in the U.S., John and his siblings lived in grandeur and wanted for nothing, but on their return to England in February 1945 they were faced with the stark realities of wartime Britain. Rationing was still in force, their former home at Cheyne Walk had been bombed, and the house at 22 Eaton Square had had its windows blown out. Despite the family's noble ancestry, the 6th Earl and his wife were agnostics and socialists and preferred a more austere existence than that offered by Tucker, an extremely wealthy Christian. For a time, John suffered nightmares and was taken to a psychotherapist. As an adult he remained an agnostic, but ensured that his children attended Sunday school, preferring to give them a traditional childhood.\n\nAt Eton College, John developed a taste for gambling. He supplemented his pocket money with income from bookmaking, placing his earnings into a \"secret\" bank account, and regularly left the school's grounds to attend horse races. According to his mother his academic record was \"far from creditable\", but he became Captain of Roe's House, before leaving in 1953 to undertake his National Service. He became a second lieutenant in his father's regiment, the Coldstream Guards, and was stationed mainly in Krefeld, West Germany. While there, he also became a keen poker player.\n\nOn leaving the army in 1955, Lucan joined a London-based merchant bank, William Brandt's Sons and Co., on an annual salary of £500. In 1960 he met Stephen Raphael, a rich stockbroker who was a skilled backgammon player. They holidayed together in the Bahamas, went water-skiing, and played golf, backgammon and poker. Lucan became a regular gambler and an early member of John Aspinall's Clermont gaming club, located in Berkeley Square. He often won at games of skill like bridge and backgammon, but he also accumulated huge losses. On one occasion he lost £8,000, or about two-thirds of the money he received annually from various family trusts. On another disastrous night at a casino he lost £10,000. That time his stockbroker uncle by marriage, John Bevan, helped him to pay the debt, and Lucan repaid his uncle two years later.\n\nLucan left Brandt's in about 1960, shortly after he had won £26,000 playing chemin de fer. A colleague had been promoted before him, and he protested and then gave up his job, saying \"why should I work in a bank, when I can earn a year's money in one single night at the tables?\" He travelled to the United States, where he played golf, raced powerboats, and drove his Aston Martin around the West Coast. He also visited his elder sister Jane, and his former guardian, Marcia Tucker. On his return to England he moved out of his parents' home in St John's Wood and into a flat in Park Crescent.\n\nLucan met his future wife, Veronica Duncan, early in 1963. She was born in 1937 to Major Charles Moorhouse Duncan and his wife, Thelma. Her father had died in a car accident while she was still very young, following which the family had moved to South Africa. Her mother remarried, and when her new step-father became manager of a hotel in Guildford, the family returned to England. Along with her sister, Christina, she was educated at St Swithun's School, Winchester, and after displaying a talent for art she went on to study at an art college in Bournemouth. The two sisters later shared a flat in London, where Veronica worked as a model and later as a secretary. Christina's marriage to the wealthy William Shand Kydd (half-brother to Peter Shand Kydd, stepfather to Diana Spencer, later Princess of Wales) introduced her to London high society, and it was at a golf-club function in the country that Veronica and Lucan first met.\n\nNews of their engagement appeared in \"The Times\" and \"The Daily Telegraph\" newspapers on 14 October 1963, and the two were married at Holy Trinity Church, Brompton on 20 November. After a ceremony attended by Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone (one of whose ladies-in-waiting had been a relative of Lady Lucan), but by few other prominent members of high society, the couple honeymooned in Europe, travelling first class on the Orient Express. Lucan's already embattled finances were given a welcome boost by his father, who provided him with a marriage settlement designed to finance a larger family home and any future additions to the Lucan family. Lucan repaid some of his creditors and purchased 46 Lower Belgrave Street, Belgravia, redecorating it to suit Veronica's tastes. Two months after the wedding, on 21 January 1964, the 6th Earl of Lucan died of a stroke. In addition to a reputed £250,000 inheritance, Lucan acquired his father's titles: Earl of Lucan; Baron Lucan of Castlebar; Baron Lucan of Melcombe Lucan and Baronet Bingham of Castlebar. His wife became the Countess of Lucan. Their first child, Frances, was born on 24 October 1964, and early the next year they employed a nanny, Lillian Jenkins, to look after her. Lucan tried to teach Veronica about gambling and traditional pursuits like hunting, shooting, and fishing. He bought her golf lessons; she later gave up the sport.\n\nLucan's daily routine consisted of breakfast at 9:00 am, coffee, dealing with the morning's letters, reading the newspapers, and playing the piano. He sometimes jogged in the park and took his Doberman Pinscher for walks. Lunch at the Clermont Club was followed by afternoon games of backgammon. Returning home to change into evening dress, the earl typically spent the remainder of the day at the Clermont, gambling into the early hours, watched sometimes by Veronica. In 1956, while still working at Brandt's, he had written of his desire to have \"£2m in the bank\", claiming that \"motor-cars, yachts, expensive holidays, and security for the future would give myself and a lot of other people a lot of pleasure\". He was described by his friends as a shy and taciturn man, but with his tall stature, \"luxuriant guardsman's moustache,\" and masculine pursuits, his exploits made him popular. His profligacy extended to hiring private aircraft to take his friends to the races, asking a car dealer he knew to source an Aston Martin drophead coupé, drinking expensive Russian vodka and racing powerboats. In September 1966 he unsuccessfully screen tested for a part in \"Woman Times Seven\", prompting him to decline a later offer from film producer Cubby Broccoli to screen test him for the role of James Bond.\n\nAs a professional gambler he was undoubtedly a skilled player, once rated amongst the world's top ten backgammon competitors. He won the St James's Club tournament and was Champion of the West Coast of America. He gained the moniker \"Lucky\" Lucan, but his losses easily outweighed his winnings, and in reality he was anything but lucky. He had interests in thoroughbred horses; in 1968 he paid more in race entry fees than he received in winnings. Despite some arguments over money, his wife remained largely ignorant of his losses, retaining the use of accounts at Savile Row tailors and various Knightsbridge shops. Following the births of George (1967) and Camilla (1970), she suffered post-natal depression. Lucan became increasingly involved in her mental well-being, and in 1971 took her for treatment at a psychiatric clinic in Hampstead, where she refused to be admitted. Instead, she agreed to home visits from a psychiatrist and a course of anti-depressants. In July 1972 the family holidayed in Monte Carlo, but Veronica quickly returned to England, leaving Lucan with their two elder children. The combined pressures of maintaining their finances, paying for Lucan's gambling addiction, and Veronica's weakened mental condition took their toll on the marriage; two weeks after a strained family Christmas in 1972, Lucan moved into a small property in Eaton Row.\n\nSome months later Lucan moved again, to a larger rented flat in nearby Elizabeth Street. Despite an early attempt by his wife at reconciliation, by that point all Lucan wanted from the marriage was custody of his children. In an effort to demonstrate that Veronica was unfit to look after them, he began to spy on his family (his car was regularly seen parked in Lower Belgrave Street), later employing private investigators to perform the same task. Lucan also canvassed doctors, who explained that his wife had not \"gone mad\", but was suffering from depression and anxiety. Lucan told his friends that nobody would work for Veronica (she sacked the children's long-term nanny, Lillian Jenkins, in December 1972). Of the series of nannies employed in the house, one, 26-year-old Stefanja Sawicka, was told by Veronica that Lucan had hit her with a cane and had, on one occasion, pushed her down the stairs. The countess apparently feared for her safety and told Sawicka not to be surprised \"if he kills me one day.\"\n\nSawicka's time at the Lucan household ended late in March 1973. While with two of the children near Grosvenor Place, she was confronted by Lucan and two private detectives. They told her that the children had been made wards of court and that she must release them into his custody, which she did. Frances was collected from school later in the day. Lady Lucan applied to the court to have the children returned, but concerned about the case's complexity, the judge set a date for the hearing three months ahead, for June 1973. To defend herself against Lucan's claims about her mental state, Veronica booked herself a four-day stay at the Priory Clinic in Roehampton. While it was acknowledged that she still required some psychiatric support, the doctors reported that there was no indication that she was mentally ill. Lucan's case depended upon Veronica being unable to care for the children, but at the hearing, he was instead forced to defend his own behaviour toward her. After several weeks of witnesses and protracted arguments \"in camera\", on the advice of his lawyers he conceded the case. Unimpressed by Lucan's character, Mr Justice Rees awarded custody to Veronica. The earl was allowed access every other weekend.\n\nThus began a bitter dispute between the two, involving many of their friends and Veronica's own sister. Lucan again began to watch his wife's movements. He recorded some of their telephone conversations with a small Sony tape recorder and played excerpts to any friends prepared to listen; he also told them—and his bank manager—that Lady Lucan had been \"spending money like water\". He continued to pay her £40 a week and may have cancelled their regular food order with Harrods. He delayed payment to the milkman and—knowing that Veronica was required by the court to employ a live-in nanny—the childcare agency. With no income of her own, Veronica took a part-time job in a local hospital. A temporary nanny, Elizabeth Murphy, was befriended by Lucan, who bought her drinks and asked her for information on his wife. He instructed his detective agency to investigate Murphy, looking for evidence that she was failing in her duty of care to his children. This they found; he dispensed with the detective agency's services when they presented him with bills amounting to several hundred pounds. Murphy was later hospitalised with cancer. Another temporary nanny, Christabel Martin, reported strange telephone calls to the house, some with heavy breathing and some from a man asking for non-existent people. Following a series of temporary nannies, Sandra Rivett started work in late 1974.\n\nLosing the court case proved devastating for Lucan. It had cost him an estimated £20,000, and by late 1974 his financial position was dire. As he drank more heavily and started chain-smoking, his friends began to worry. In drunken conversations with some of them, including Aspinall's mother, Lady Osborne, and her son, Lucan discussed murdering his wife. Greville Howard later gave a statement to the police describing how Lucan had talked of how killing his wife might save him from bankruptcy, how her body might be disposed of in the Solent and how he \"would never be caught\". Lucan borrowed £4,000 from his mother and asked Marcia Tucker for a loan of £100,000. Having no luck there, he wrote to Tucker's son, explaining how he wished to \"buy\" his children from Veronica; the money was not forthcoming. He turned to his friends and acquaintances, asking anyone plausible to loan him money to fund his gambling addiction. The financier James Goldsmith guaranteed a £5,000 overdraft for him, which for years remained unpaid. Lucan also applied to the discreet Edgware Trust. On request, he supplied details of his income, which was apparently around £12,000 a year from various family trusts. He was required to provide a surety and received only £3,000 of the £5,000 he asked for. Much to their managers' consternation, his four bank accounts were overdrawn; Coutts, £2,841; Lloyds, £4,379; National Westminster, £1,290; Midland, £5,667. Even though by then he was playing for much lower stakes than had previously been the case, Lucan's gambling remained completely out of control. Ranson (1994) estimates that between September and October 1974 alone, the earl ran up debts of around £50,000. Taki Theodoracopulos, who recalled Lucan as a close friend for more than a decade, lent him £3,000 in cash three nights before the murder.\n\nDespite these problems, from late October 1974 his demeanour appeared to change for the better. His best man, John Wilbraham, remarked that Lucan's apparent obsession over regaining his children had diminished. While having dinner with his mother he cast aside talk of his family problems and turned instead to politics. On 6 November he met his uncle John Bevan, apparently in good spirits. Later that day he met 21-year-old Charlotte Andrina Colquhoun, who said that \"he seemed very happy, just his usual self, and there was nothing to suggest that he was worried or depressed\". He also dined at the Clermont with racing driver Graham Hill. At the time, casinos could open only between 2:00 pm and 4:00 am, so Lucan often gambled into the early hours of the morning. He took tablets to deal with his insomnia and therefore usually awoke around lunchtime. On 7 November though, he broke routine and called his solicitor early that morning, and at 10:30 am took a call from Colquhoun. They arranged to eat at the Clermont at about 3:00 pm, but Lucan failed to appear. Colquhoun drove past the Clermont and Ladbroke clubs, and past Elizabeth Street, but could not find his car anywhere. Lucan also failed to arrive for his 1:00 pm lunch appointment with artist Dominic Elwes and banker Daniel Meinertzhagen, again at the Clermont.\n\nAt 4:00 pm Lucan called at a chemist's on Lower Belgrave Street, close to Veronica's home, and asked the pharmacist there to identify a small capsule. It turned out to be Limbitrol 5, a drug for the treatment of anxiety and depression. Lucan had apparently made several similar visits since he separated from his wife; he never told the pharmacist where he got the drugs. At 4:45 pm he called a friend, literary agent Michael Hicks-Beach, and between 6:30 pm and 7:00 pm met with him at his flat on Elizabeth Street. Lucan wanted his help with an article on gambling he had been asked to write for an Oxford University magazine. He drove Hicks-Beach home for about 8:00 pm, not in his Mercedes-Benz, but in \"an old, dark, and scruffy Ford\", possibly the Ford Corsair he borrowed from Michael Stoop several weeks earlier. At 8:30 pm he called the Clermont to check on a reservation for dinner with Greville Howard and friends. Howard had called him at 5:15 pm and asked if he wished to come to the theatre, but Lucan had declined and made the alternative suggestion to meet at the Clermont at 11:00 pm. He failed to arrive and did not answer his telephone when called.\n\nSandra Eleanor Rivett was born on 16 September 1945, the third child of Albert and Eunice Hensby. The family moved to Australia when she was two years old, but returned in 1955. Sandra was a popular child, described at school as \"intelligent, although she does not excel academically\". She worked for six months as an apprentice hairdresser before taking a job as a secretary in Croydon. Following a failed romance she became a voluntary patient at a mental hospital near Redhill, Surrey, where she was treated for depression. She became engaged to a builder named John and took a job as a children's nanny for a doctor in Croydon. On 13 March 1964, she gave birth to a boy named Stephen, but, as her relationship with John was failing, she returned home to live with her parents and considered giving the baby up for adoption. Her parents took on the responsibility and adopted him in May 1965. Sandra later worked at an old people's home, before moving to Portsmouth to stay with her elder sister. While there she met Roger Rivett; the two married on 10 June 1967 in Croydon. Roger was serving as a Royal Navy able seaman and later worked as a loader for British Road Services, while Sandra worked part-time at Reedham Orphanage in Purley. In summer 1973 he took a job on an Esso tanker, returning to their flat in Kenley a few months later by which time Sandra was employed by a cigarette company in Croydon. Their marriage collapsed in May 1974 when, suspicious of Sandra's movements while he was away, Roger went to live with his parents. She was by then listed on the books of a Belgravia domestic agency and had been caring for an elderly couple in that district. A few weeks later she began to work for the Lucans.\n\nSandra normally went out with her boyfriend, John Hankins, on Thursday nights, but had decided to change her night off and thus, had seen him the previous day. The two last spoke on the telephone at about 8:00 pm on 7 November. After putting the younger children to bed, at about 8:55 pm she asked Veronica if she would like a cup of tea, before heading downstairs to the basement kitchen to make one. As she entered the room, she was bludgeoned to death with a piece of bandaged lead pipe. Her killer then placed her body into a canvas mailsack. Meanwhile, wondering what had delayed her nanny, Lady Lucan descended from the first floor to see what had happened. She called to Rivett from the top of the basement stairs and was herself attacked. As she screamed for her life, her attacker told her to \"shut up.\" Lady Lucan later claimed at that moment to have recognised her husband's voice. The two apparently continued to fight; she bit his fingers, and when he threw her face down to the carpet, managed to turn around and squeeze his testicles, causing him to release his grip on her throat and give up the fight. When she asked where Rivett was, Lucan was at first evasive, but eventually admitted to having killed her. Terrified, Lady Lucan told him she could help him escape if only he would remain at the house for a few days, to allow her injuries to heal. Lucan walked upstairs and sent his daughter to bed, then went into one of the bedrooms. When Veronica entered, to lie on the bed, he told her to put towels down first to avoid staining the bedding. Lucan asked her if she had any barbiturates and went to the bathroom to get a wet towel, supposedly to clean Veronica's face. Lady Lucan realised her husband would be unable to hear her from the bathroom, and made her escape, running outside to a nearby public house, the Plumbers Arms.\n\nLucan may have arrived at the Chester Square home of Madelaine Florman (mother of one of Frances's school friends) sometime between 10:00 pm and 10:30 pm. Alone in the house, Florman ignored the door, but shortly afterwards she received an incoherent telephone call and put the receiver down. Blood stains, which after forensic examination were found to be a mixture of blood groups A and B, were later discovered on her doorstep. Lucan certainly called his mother between 10:30 pm and 11:00 pm and asked her to collect the children from Lower Belgrave Street. According to the Dowager Countess, he spoke of a \"terrible catastrophe\" at his wife's home. He told her that he had been driving past the house when he saw Veronica fighting with a man, in the basement. He had entered the property and found his wife screaming. The location from which he made this, and possibly the call to Florman, remains unknown. The police forced their way into Lady Lucan's home and discovered Sandra Rivett's body before his wife was taken by ambulance to St George's Hospital. Lucan drove the Ford Corsair to Uckfield, in East Sussex, to visit his friends, the Maxwell-Scotts. Susan Maxwell-Scott's meeting with Lucan was his last confirmed sighting.\n\nBy the time Detective Chief Superintendent Roy Ranson arrived at Lower Belgrave Street early on Friday 8 November, the divisional surgeon had pronounced Sandra Rivett dead and forensic officers and photographers had been called to the property. Other than the front door, which the first two officers on the scene had kicked in, there was no sign of a forced entry. A bloodstained towel was found in Veronica's first-floor bedroom. The area around the top of the basement staircase was heavily bloodstained. A bloodstained lead pipe lay on the floor. Pictures hanging from the staircase walls were askew and a metal banister rail was damaged. At the foot of the stairs, two cups and saucers lay in a pool of blood. Rivett's arm protruded from the canvas sack, which lay in a slowly expanding pool of blood. The light fitting at the bottom of the stairs was missing its bulb; one was noted nearby, on a chair. Blood was also found on various leaves in the adjoining rear garden.\n\nOfficers also searched 5 Eaton Row, into which Lucan had moved early in 1973, and after interviewing his mother (who had called to take the children to her home in St John's Wood), his last address at 72a Elizabeth Street. Nothing untoward was found; on the bed, a suit and shirt lay alongside a book on Greek shipping millionaires, and Lucan's wallet, car keys, money, driving licence, handkerchief and spectacles were on a bedside table. His passport was in a drawer and his blue Mercedes-Benz parked outside, its engine cold and its battery flat. Ranson then visited Veronica Lucan at St George's Hospital. Although heavily sedated, she was able to describe what had happened to her. A police officer was left to guard her, should her assailant return. Rivett's body was taken to the mortuary, and a search was undertaken of all local basement areas and gardens, skips and open spaces.\n\nAfter removing her corpse from the canvas sack and beginning the post mortem examination, pathologist Keith Simpson told Ranson he was certain that Rivett had been killed before her body was placed in the sack, and that in his opinion the lead pipe found at the scene could be the murder weapon. Her estranged husband, Roger, had an alibi for the night concerned, and was eliminated from police inquiries. Other male friends and boyfriends were questioned and discounted as suspects. Her parents confirmed that Sandra had a good working relationship with Lady Lucan, and was extremely fond of the children. Meanwhile, Lucan had yet to make an appearance, and so his description was circulated to police forces across the country. Newspapers and television stations were told only that Lucan was wanted by the police for questioning.\n\nHours earlier, Lucan had again called his mother, at about 12:30 am. He told her that he would be in touch later that day, but declined to speak with the police constable who had accompanied her to her flat; instead, he said he would call the police later that morning. Ranson discovered that Lucan had travelled to Uckfield when he was called by Ian Maxwell-Scott, who told him that Lucan had arrived at his home a few hours after the murder, and spoken with his wife, Susan. While there, the earl had written two letters to his brother-in-law, Bill Shand Kydd, and posted them to his London address. Maxwell-Scott also called Shand Kydd at his country house near Leighton Buzzard and told him about the letters, prompting the latter to immediately drive to London to collect them. After reading them, and noting that they were bloodstained, he took them to Ranson.\n\nWhen asked why she did not immediately inform the police of Lucan's presence, Susan Maxwell-Scott said she had not seen any newspapers or television news, or listened to any radio broadcasts that might have warned her of the importance of his visit. Meanwhile, Lucan's children were taken by their aunt, Lady Sarah Gibbs, to her home in Guilsborough, Northamptonshire, where they would remain for several weeks. On the day Veronica Lucan was discharged from hospital, a High Court hearing confirmed that the children could return to live with her. Repeated press intrusions later forced the family to move to a friend's home in Plymouth.\n\nThe Ford Corsair that Lucan had been seen driving and whose details had the previous day been circulated across the country was found on Sunday in Norman Road, Newhaven, about from Uckfield. In its boot was a piece of lead pipe covered in surgical tape, and a full bottle of vodka. The car was removed for forensic examination. Later statements from two witnesses suggest that it was parked there sometime between 5:00 am and 8:00 am on the morning of Friday 8 November. Its owner, Michael Stoop, also received a letter from Lucan, delivered to his club, the St James's. However, Stoop threw the envelope away and it was therefore not possible to check its postmark to see where it had been sent from.\n\nRanson suspected a suicide, but a thorough search of Newhaven Downs was judged impossible. A partial search was made, using tracker dogs, but all that was found were the skeletal remains of a judge who had disappeared years earlier. Police divers searched the harbour, and a partial search using infrared photography was undertaken the following year, to no avail. A warrant for Lucan's arrest, to answer charges of murdering Sandra Rivett, and attempting to murder his wife, was issued on Tuesday 12 November 1974. Descriptions of his appearance, already issued to police forces across the UK, were then issued to Interpol.\n\nThe forensic examination of the lead pipes found at the murder scene and in the Corsair's boot revealed traces of blood on the pipe from 46 Lower Belgrave Street. This proved to be a mixture of Lady Lucan's (blood group A) and Sandra Rivett's (B) blood. Hair belonging to Veronica Lucan was also found on that pipe, but none belonging to Sandra Rivett. The pipe found inside the car had neither blood nor hair on it. Home Office scientists were unable to prove conclusively that both pipes were cut from the same, longer, piece of piping, although they thought it likely. The tape wrapped around both was similar, but those too could not be conclusively linked. The letters written to Bill Shand Kydd were stained with blood considered to be from both women. The letter to Michael Stoop had no blood on it, but it was later proven that the paper it was written on had been torn from a writing pad found in the Corsair's boot.\n\nAn examination of the blood stains found inside 46 Lower Belgrave Street demonstrated that Rivett had been attacked in the basement kitchen, while Lady Lucan had been attacked at the top of the basement stairs. The blood stains found inside the Ford Corsair were of the AB blood group; the report concluded that this might have been a mixture of blood from both women. Hair similar to Lady Lucan's was also found inside the car.\n\nBy the afternoon of Friday 8 November, the newspapers' early editions carried photographs of the Lucans across their front pages, accompanied by headlines like \"Body in sack ... countess runs out screaming\", and \"Belgravia murder – earl sought\". A meeting that day at the Clermont, between John Aspinall, Daniel Meinertzhagen, Charles Benson, Stephen Raphael, Bill Shand Kydd, and Dominick Elwes, became the cause of much press speculation. Meinertzhagen and Raphael later insisted that the gathering was just a rational discussion between concerned friends, keen to share anything they knew about what had happened, but the relationship between the police and Lucan's social circle was strained; some officers complained that an \"Eton mafia\" worked against them. Susan Maxwell-Scott refused to add to her statement, and when Aspinall's mother, Lady Osborne, was asked if she could help locate Lucan's body, she replied \"The last I heard of him, he was being fed to the tigers at my son's zoo\", prompting the police to search the house and the animal cages there. They searched fourteen country houses and estates, including Holkham Hall and Warwick Castle, to no avail. Amidst concerns expressed by the Labour MP Marcus Lipton that some people were \"being a bit snooty\" with the police, Benson wrote a letter to \"The Times\" asking him to either identify those people or \"kindly withdraw his remarks\". To their cost, \"Private Eye\" accused James Goldsmith of being at the Clermont meeting, when he was actually in Ireland. Dominic Elwes went to see Lady Lucan in hospital and was reportedly deeply shocked both by her appearance and her statement \"Who's the mad one now?\" Elwes was apparently unhappy at some of the negative press coverage of the countess, and was later ostracised by his friends for his part in an article critical of Lucan, which appeared in the \"Sunday Times Magazine\". He committed suicide in September 1975.\n\nRivett's case made headlines around the world. Within days of the murder, newspapers reported on Veronica Lucan's statement to the police, with claims that she had pretended to collude with her husband to ensure her safety. In January 1975 Veronica gave an exclusive interview to the \"Daily Express\". She also appeared in a murder reconstruction, in the same newspaper, complete with posed photographs taken inside the house.\n\nThe inquest into Sandra Rivett's death opened on 13 November 1974 and was led by the Coroner for Inner West London, Gavin Thurston. Two witnesses were called to the courtroom, which was packed with reporters; Roger Rivett, who confirmed that he had identified his wife's body, and the pathologist, Keith Simpson, who confirmed that Rivett had died from being hit on the head with a blunt instrument. At Ranson's request, the hearing was then adjourned. Further adjournments were made on 11 December 1974 and 10 March 1975, before a full inquest was scheduled for 16 June 1975.\n\nThe hearing began with introductions from various legal representatives, including a lawyer hired for Lucan by his mother. Thurston introduced the jury to the case and explained their duties. He had selected 33 witnesses to be called over the following few days, including Veronica Lucan, who each day wore a dark coat and white headscarf. Thurston questioned her on her relationship with Lucan, her marriage, her financial affairs, her employment of Rivett and what had happened on the night of the attack. The Dowager Countess's Queen's Counsel attempted to ask Lady Lucan about the nature of their relationship, if she hated her husband, but Thurston ruled his line of questioning inadmissible. Woman Detective Constable Sally Blower, who had taken a statement from Frances on 20 November 1974, read the young girl's words to the court. Frances had heard a scream, and a few minutes later had watched as her mother (blood on her face) and father had entered the room. Her mother had then sent her to bed. She later heard her father calling for her mother, asking where she was, and watched as he left the bathroom and walked downstairs. She also described how Sandra Rivett did not normally work on Thursday nights.\n\nThe landlord of The Plumbers Arms described how Lady Lucan had entered his bar covered \"head to toe in blood\" before she fell into \"a state of shock\". He claimed that she shouted \"Help me, help me, I've just escaped from being murdered\" and \"My children, my children, he's murdered my nanny\". Pathologist Keith Simpson outlined his post-mortem examination, concluding that death was caused by \"blunt head injuries\" and \"inhalation of blood\". He confirmed that the lead pipe found at the scene was most likely responsible for Rivett's injuries; some, to the left eye and mouth, he thought more likely to have been caused by punches from a clenched fist. The last person to confirm seeing Lucan alive, Susan Maxwell-Scott, told the court that the earl looked \"dishevelled\", and his hair \"a little ruffled\". His trousers had a damp patch on the right hip. Lucan had told her that he was walking, or passing by the house when he saw Veronica being attacked by a man. He let himself in but slipped in a pool of blood at the bottom of the stairs. He told Maxwell-Scott that the attacker ran off, and that Veronica was \"very hysterical\" and accused him of having hired a hitman to kill her.\nOnce the hearing had ended, Thurston made a summary of the evidence presented and told the jury their options. At 11:45 am, their foreman announced \"Murder by Lord Lucan\". Lucan became the first member of the House of Lords to be named a murderer since 1760, when Laurence Shirley, 4th Earl Ferrers, was hanged for killing his bailiff. He was also the last person to be committed by a coroner to a Crown Court for unlawful killing; the coroner's power to do so was removed by the Criminal Law Act 1977.\n\nRivett's body, which had been held for several weeks following the murder, was released to her family and cremated at Croydon crematorium on 18 December 1974. A police spokesman cited Lady Lucan's desire not to upset the family as a reason for her non-attendance at the cremation.\n\nLucan's friends and family were critical of the inquest, which they felt offered a one-sided view of events. His mother told reporters that it did not serve \"any useful purpose at all\". Veronica's sister, Christina, said that she felt \"great sadness and sorrow\" at the verdict. Susan Maxwell-Scott continued to press the earl's claims of innocence and claimed to feel \"awfully sorry\" for the countess.\n\nHowever, as Lucan remained absent, his description of \"a traumatic night of unbelievable coincidence\" came only from the letters he authored and the people he spoke with soon after Rivett's murder. While his fingerprints were not found at the scene, his assertions make no provision for the lead pipe discovered in the boot of the Ford Corsair, the claims by some that he discussed murdering his wife, or the lack of a viable suspect for the man he claimed to have seen fighting her. No sign of a forced entry was found, and officers attempting to demonstrate that Lucan could have seen into the basement kitchen, from the street, could only do so by stooping low to the pavement. The basement light was not working, making it even more difficult to see into the room; its lightbulb (which was tested and found to be in working order) was found removed from its holder and left lying on a chair. Furthermore, Lady Lucan claimed not to have entered the basement that night, contradicting the earl's version of events; his wife's account is supported by the forensic examination made of the blood splashes and stains around the property. Some traces of her blood were found in the basement, the rear garden and on the canvas sack used to store Rivett's body; this may have been due to contamination at the scene. The man Lucan claimed to have seen could not have left through the basement's front door as it was locked, and the rear door led to a walled garden through which no trace of an escape was found. No signs that the man left by the ground level front door were discovered, and no witnesses reported seeing any such person near 46 Lower Belgrave Street.\n\nIn contrast to his defenders, the national press were almost unanimous in their condemnation of Lucan. Their leader-writers ignored the threat of libel and identified him as Rivett's killer.\n\nAs Lucan's bankruptcy proceeded, in August 1975 his creditors were informed that the missing earl had unsecured debts of £45,000 and preferential liabilities for £1,326. His assets were estimated at £22,632. The family silver was sold in March 1976 for around £30,000. His remaining debts were repaid by the Lucan family trust in the years immediately following his disappearance. His family was granted probate over his estate in 1999, but no death certificate was issued, and his heir, George Bingham, Lord Bingham, was refused permission to take his father's title and seat in the House of Lords. Following the passage of the Presumption of Death Act 2013, Bingham began a new attempt to have his father declared dead, which proved successful in a High Court hearing at the Rolls Building on 3 February 2016. He therefore inherited his father's title, becoming the 8th Earl of Lucan.\n\nThe last confirmed sighting of Lucan was at about 1:15 am on 8 November 1974 as he exited the driveway of the Maxwell-Scott property, in his friend's Ford Corsair. Since then, his whereabouts and ultimate fate remain a mystery. Detective Chief Superintendent Roy Ranson initially claimed that Lucan had \"done the honourable thing\" and \"fallen on his own sword\", a view publicly repeated by many of Lucan's friends, including John Aspinall, who shortly before his death in 2000 said he believed the earl was guilty of Rivett's murder, and that he had committed suicide by scuttling his motorboat and jumping into the Channel with a stone tied around his body. Veronica Lucan, who committed suicide in 2017, believed her husband killed himself \"like the nobleman he was\".\n\nRanson later changed his view, explaining that he considered it more likely that suicide was far from Lucan's thoughts, that a rumoured drowning at sea was implausible and that the earl had moved to southern Africa. Thirty years after the murder, the detective leading a new investigation into Lucan's disappearance told the \"Telegraph\" that \"the evidence points towards the fact that Lord Lucan left the country and lived abroad for a number of years\". Speaking to author John Pearson before she died, Susan Maxwell-Scott suggested that Lucan might have been helped out of the country by shadowy underground financiers, before being judged too great a risk and killed and buried in Switzerland. A similar theory was proposed by advertising executive Jeremy Scott, who was familiar with some of the Clermont Set.\n\nLucan's disappearance has captivated the public's imagination for decades, with thousands of sightings reported across the world. One of the earliest, shortly after the murder, turned out to be a British ex-politician, John Stonehouse, who had attempted to fake his own death. The police travelled to France in June the following year to hunt another lead, to no avail. A sighting in Colombia turned out to be an American businessman. John Miller, a bounty hunter who kidnapped the fugitive train robber Ronnie Biggs, claimed in 1982 to have captured the earl, but was later exposed by the \"News of the World\" as a hoaxer. In 2003 a former Scotland Yard detective thought he had tracked the earl to Goa, India; the man he traced was actually Barry Halpin, a folk singer from St Helens. In 2007, reporters in New Zealand interviewed a homeless British expatriate who neighbours claimed was the missing earl.\n\nMore recently, responding to claims that the two eldest Lucan children were sent to Gabon in the early 1980s so that their father might secretly watch them \"from a distance\", George Bingham denied ever visiting the country. Veronica Lucan dismissed the newspaper claims of sightings as \"nonsense\", reiterating that in her opinion her husband \"was not the sort of Englishman to cope abroad\".\n\nFootnotes\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\nNon-fiction\n\nFiction\n\n"}
{"id": "46596400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46596400", "title": "Jovan Kursula", "text": "Jovan Kursula\n\nJovan Petrović (, 1768–16 August 1813), known as Jovan Kursula (Јован Курсула), was a Serbian \"vojvoda\" (commander) that participated in the Serbian Revolution. Petrović was born in Donja Gorevnica, in the Rudnik \"okrug\", near Čačak, at the time part of the Sanjak of Smederevo (now Serbia). Both his parents, Velimir and Magdalena, had ancestry from Drobnjaci in what is today Montenegro. After his father's death his mother remarried in the village of Cvetke near Kraljevo, bringing Jovan with her. Kursula had brown hair, light skin, full cheeks, youthful looks, broad shoulders and was slow-witted. He did not carry his sabre from his waist, as did most others, but \"over his shoulder, as it was easier to pull out\", as he was a master of swordsmanship. He was one of the Rudnik \"nahija\" commanders, alongside Lazar Mutap, Arsenije Loma, Milić Drinčić and Milan Obrenović. At the Battle of Varvarin he had a duel against an Ottoman commander known as the \"Black Arab\" (Crni arapin). He died from wounds from the Battle of Deligrad.\nA Yugoslav Partisan detachment in Kraljevo named after him was established in 1941. He has several primary schools named after him throughout Serbia, as well as streets in Vračar, Niš, Užice, Gornji Milanovac, Zaječar and Zrenjanin.\n\n"}
{"id": "34421535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34421535", "title": "Kentucky meat shower", "text": "Kentucky meat shower\n\nThe Kentucky meat shower was an incident occurring for a period of several minutes on March 3, 1876, where what appeared to be flakes of red meat fell from the sky in a area near the settlement of Rankin in Bath County, Kentucky. At the time, Mrs. Crouch, a farmer’s wife, was making soap on her porch one sunny afternoon when she reported seeing the meat pieces fall from the sky. She said she was merely 40 steps from her house when the meat started to slap the ground. The meat looked grisly, according to Mrs. Crouch. Mrs. Crouch and her husband believed the event signified a sign from God. A similar event was later reported, but in Europe. The phenomenon was reported by \"Scientific American\", the \"New York Times\", and several other publications at the time.\n\nMost of the pieces were approximately square; at least one was square. The meat appeared to be beef, but according to the first report in \"Scientific American\", two gentlemen who tasted it judged it to be lamb or deer. B. F. Ellington, a local hunter, identified it as bear meat. Writing in the \"Sanitarian\", Leopold Brandeis identified the substance as \"Nostoc\", a type of cyanobacteria. Brandeis gave the meat sample to the Newark Scientific Association for further analysis, leading to a letter from Dr. Allan McLane Hamilton appearing in the \"Medical Record\" and stating the meat had been identified as lung tissue from either a horse or a human infant, \"the structure of the organ in these two cases being almost identical\". The composition of this sample was backed-up by further analysis, with two samples of the meat being identified as lung tissue, three as muscle, and two as cartilage.\n\nBrandeis's \"Nostoc\" theory relied on the fact that \"Nostoc\" expands into a clear jelly-like mass when rain falls on it, often giving the sense that it was falling with the rain. Charles Fort noticed in his first book, \"The Book of the Damned\", that there had been no rain. Locals favored the explanation that the meat was vomited up by buzzards, \"who, as is their custom, seeing one of their companions disgorge himself, immediately followed suit\". Dr. L. D. Kastenbine presented this theory in the \"Louisville Medical News\" as the best explanation of the variety of meat. Vultures vomit as part of making a quick escape and also as a defensive method when threatened. Fort explained the flattened, dry appearance of the meat chunks as the result of pressure, and noted that nine days later, on March 12, 1876, red \"corpuscles\" with a \"vegetable\" appearance fell over London.\n"}
{"id": "55644385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55644385", "title": "Kim Jun (Goryeo)", "text": "Kim Jun (Goryeo)\n\nKim Jun (? - 1268) (김준) also known as Kim In-Jun or Musang was the ninth military leader who ruled during the late period of the Goryeo military regime.\n\nHis father was Kim Yun-Seong, a slave who betrayed his master, Choe Chung-Heon and fight with Manjeok. Kim Jun had a brother, Kim Seung-Jun but later, he was renamed Kim Chung. He was good at riding and archery. In 1258, Choe Ui was overthrown and killed by Kim Jun and Yu Gyeong (1211–1289). Kim Jun became the new military ruler and shortly after that, Goryeo concluded a war with Mongols. \n\nHowever, Kim Jun's power was much weaker than those of his predecessors, because his regime was sustained by a small number of sympathizers who coincide with the coup d'etat. Kim Jun continued to insist on the war with mongols and in this context, he began to give power to his relatives in order to strengthen his power, led to corruption and resulted in violent clashes with a few supporters of the regime. Im Yeon, who was an adopted child of Kim Jun, had a problem with Kim Chung and his wealth. \n\nThe new king, Wonjong of Goryeo was an opponent of Kim Jun and scholars who had insisted on peace with Mongolia gained power. In 1268, Im Yeon assassinated Kim Jun and became the new military leader.\nIn 1268, however, Kim Jun was annihilated by the Sambyeolcho under the order of Im Yeon. The next year, Im Yeon's attempt to replace King Wonjong was reversed by the crown prince with the help from the Mongol force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8682058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8682058", "title": "Lincoln Catafalque", "text": "Lincoln Catafalque\n\nThe Lincoln catafalque is a catafalque hastily constructed in 1865 to support the casket of Abraham Lincoln while the president's body lay in state in the Capitol Rotunda in Washington, D.C. The catafalque has since been used for all those who have lain in state in the Capitol Rotunda, as listed below. When not in use, the catafalque is kept in the United States Capitol Visitor Center in a small vaulted chamber. It was previously kept in an area called Washington's Tomb, which was originally intended, but never used, as the burial place for George Washington, the first President of the United States.\n\nNo law, written rule, or regulation specifies who may lie in state; use of the Rotunda is controlled by concurrent action of the House and Senate. Any person who has rendered distinguished service to the nation may lie in state if the family so wishes and Congress approves. In the case of unknown soldiers, the President or the appropriate branch of the armed forces initiates the action.\n\nSenators and representatives have lain in state on the catafalque elsewhere in the Capitol. An example of this was when the catafalque was used for the six hours that Senator Robert C. Byrd lay in repose on the Senate floor on July 1, 2010. The catafalque has also been used seven times in the Supreme Court Building, for the lying in state of former Chief Justice Earl Warren on July 11–12, 1974; former Justice Thurgood Marshall, January 27, 1993; former Chief Justice Warren Earl Burger, June 28, 1995; former Justice William J. Brennan, Jr., July 28, 1997; Justice Harry A. Blackmun, March 8, 1999, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist on September 6–7, 2005, and Justice Antonin Scalia on February 19, 2016. In addition, it was used in the Department of Commerce building on April 9–10, 1996, for the lying in state of Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown.\n\nThe catafalque is a simple bier of rough pine boards nailed together and covered with black cloth. Although the base and platform have occasionally been altered to accommodate the larger size of modern coffins and for the ease of the attending military personnel, it is basically the same today as it was in Lincoln's time. Presently the catafalque measures long, wide, and high. The attached base is long, wide, and high. The platform is long, wide, and high. Although the cloth covering the catafalque has been replaced several times, the style of the drapery is similar to that used in 1865.\n\nA list of those who have lain on the catafalque appears below.\n"}
{"id": "1431537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1431537", "title": "Lizardfolk", "text": "Lizardfolk\n\nLizardfolk (also lizard men) are a fictional humanoid species in the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" fantasy role-playing game, having appeared in every version of the game to date.\n\nLizard men first officially appeared as part of the original \"D&D\" game in the 1975 \"Greyhawk\" supplement booklet authored by Gary Gygax and Robert J. Kuntz. The lizardman artwork that appeared on the inside front cover of that supplement was used as part of the official TSR, Inc. logo from 1975 through 1978.\n\nThe lizard man was introduced to the game in its first supplement, \"Greyhawk\" (1975). It is described as an aquatic monster with a rude intelligence, that is fond of eating human flesh.\n\nThe lizard man appears in the first edition \"Monster Manual\" (1977), where it is described as a semi-aquatic creature that dwells underwater, and is omnivorous but prefers human flesh.\n\nThe lizard man is detailed as a player character race in \"White Dwarf\" #26 (Aug/Sept 1981).\n\nThe lizard king, a more intelligent and evil relative to the more common lizard man, was introduced in the \"Fiend Folio\" (1981).\n\nThis edition of the D&D game included its own version of the lizard man, in the \"Dungeons & Dragons Basic Set\" (1977, 1981, 1983), and was also later featured in the \"Dungeons & Dragons Game\" set (1991), the \"Dungeons & Dragons Rules Cyclopedia\" (1991), the \"Classic Dungeons & Dragons Game\" set (1994), and the \"Dungeons & Dragons Adventure Game\" set (1999).\n\nA variety of lizard men called \"Cay-Men,\" inhabiting a kingdom called Cay, were described in \"The Voyage of the Princess Ark\" in \"Dragon\" issue #185. Options for including varieties of lizard man (collectively called \"lizard-kin\") as player characters were included at the end of the article.\n\nThe Malpheggi lizard man was detailed as a player character race in the \"Hollow World Campaign Set\" in the \"Player's Guide\" (1990).\n\nThe lizard man and lizard king appear first in the \"Monstrous Compendium Volume One\" (1989), and are reprinted in the \"Monstrous Manual\" (1993).\n\nThe bakali, a relative of the lizard man from the world of Krynn in the Dragonlance campaign setting, was introduced in the \"Time of the Dragon\" boxed set, in the \"Rulebook of Taladas\" booklet (1989), and also appeared in the \"Tales of the Lance\" set, in the \"World Book of Ansalon\" booklet (1992).\n\nThe lizard man of Krynn was detailed in the \"Dragonlance Monstrous Compendium\". (1990)\n\nThe lizard man was presented as a player character race for the Spelljammer campaign setting in \"The Complete Spacefarer's Handbook\" (1992).\n\nThe lizard man is further detailed as a playable character race in \"The Complete Book of Humanoids\" (1993), and is later presented as a playable character race again in \"\" (1995).\n\nThe Athasian lizard man and lizard king were introduced for the Dark Sun campaign setting in \"Wanderer's Chronicle: Mind Lords of the Last Sea\" (1996).\n\nThe Malatran lizard man and lizard king were detailed in \"Polyhedron\" #121 (July 1996).\n\nThe lizard man appears in the \"Monster Manual\" for this edition (2000), where it is known as the lizardfolk.\n\nThe lizardfolk is detailed as a player character race for the Forgotten Realms campaign setting in \"Races of Faerûn\" (2003).\n\nThe lizardfolk appears in the revised \"Monster Manual\" for this edition (2003).\n\nThe lizardfolk is presented as both a race and a playable class for the Hollow World campaign setting in \"Dragon\" #318 (April 2004).\n\nThe lizard king, and lizard queen, are detailed in \"Serpent Kingdoms\" for the Forgotten Realms campaign setting. (2004).\n\nThe blackscale lizardfolk and the poison dusk lizardfolk were mentioned as monsters inhabiting the jungles of Q'barra in the \"Eberron Campaign Setting\" hardcover (2004). These variants were fully described in the \"Monster Manual III\" (2004).\n\nThe lizardfolk were detailed in \"Dragon\" #335 (September 2005), in the \"Ecology of the Lizardfolk\".\n\nThe dark talon lizardfolk, including the soldier, champion, shaman, wasp rider, and Yarshag the dark talon king, were introduced in \"Monster Manual IV\" (2006).\n\nLizardfolk appear in the \"Monster Manual\" for this edition (2008).\nWitchlight lizardfolk are a dangerous variant, worshiping the black dragon Shadowmire, appearing in \"\" (2011).\n\nLizardfolk appear in the \"Monster Manual\" for the 5th edition.\n\nThe Lizardfolk is a playable race in \"Volo's Guide to Monsters\".\n\nLizardfolk are omnivores, though they have a preference for meat.\n\nLizardfolk are normally found in temperate marshes and swamps. Lizardfolk are passable swimmers however, and may be found in underwater cave systems.\n\nLizardfolk are primitive reptilian humanoids typically standing from six to seven feet tall. Their scales are normally dull, earthy colors such as green, brown, or gray. They have a tail for balance, which measures three to four feet long. Typical weight is between 200 and 300 pounds (90 and 136 kg). There are several species of lizardfolk however, and these can range from pygmies to giants.\n\nLizardfolk are usually neutral.\n\nLizardfolk society is primarily patriarchal, with the strongest member normally in charge. Shamans are typically counselors, and normally do not lead tribes. Wherever they make their home, survival is the main priority for any lizardfolk. Lizardfolk mostly worship the deity Semuanya, whose main agenda is the reproduction and survival of the species.\n\n\nIn the Mystara Campaign Setting most lizardfolk worship Ka the Preserver.\n\nLizardfolk are one of the primary factions in the Spelljammer Campaign Setting. They are thought to originally have been groundlings who were captured as slaves by humans or mind flayers and transported into wildspace. Lizardfolk in wildspace are more advanced than their groundling cousins. They often decorate their bodies with tattoos and body paint.\n\nSpacefaring lizardfolk believe that the advances in their race are due to increased proximity to the various suns of wildspace. They seek to continue the advancement of their race and deliberately fly ships containing lizardfolk eggs close to suns.\n\nLizardfolk mostly use the same sort of ships as humans, but have a special breeding ship design called the bloatfly. The bloatfly is a heavily armed vessel containing a large tank of water for incubating eggs. They are normally coated with black tar in order to retain as much heat as possible.\n\nLizard men are available as player characters in this setting.\n\nIn the Arcanis Campaign Setting, lizardfolk are elevated to the point of being not only an important race but also a race playable as PCs. The lizardfolk of Arcanis are more often called Ss'ressen, and they are divided into several campaign-specific sub-races. Most Ss'ressen are part of the evil Ssethregoran Empire, though a few sub-races have separated geographically and theologically from their brethren to live in relative peace with mankind.\n\nThe lizardfolk is fully detailed in Paizo Publishing's book \"Classic Monsters Revisited\" (2008).\n\n"}
{"id": "7129751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7129751", "title": "MS Berge Vanga", "text": "MS Berge Vanga\n\nMS \"Berge Vanga\" was an ore-bulk-oil carrier with . The ship was owned by Norwegian shipping company Sig. Bergesen d.y. and registered in Liberia. The ship had build number 300 at the Uljanik shipyard in the port city Pula in Croatia where it was built in 1974.\n\nThe ship was en route from Brazil to Japan with iron ore when contact was lost with the vessel in the South Atlantic from 29 October 1979. The ship vanished and the ensuing search operation yielded no results. 40 people lost their lives.\n\nSome debris that could resemble parts from the tanker was found but no people. Still very little is known about the disaster, and the hearing after the accident was held behind closed doors. The principal theory holds that the cause could have been explosions caused by oil residue in the cargo compartments. MS \"Berge Vanga\" was, like its sister ship which disappeared under similar circumstances four years earlier, a ship which could transport both oil and iron ore. After these two disappearances no more combination ships like this were built, and oil was never again transported alongside ore.\n"}
{"id": "3397134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3397134", "title": "Moral responsibility", "text": "Moral responsibility\n\nIn philosophy, moral responsibility is the status of morally deserving praise, blame, reward, or punishment for an act or omission performed or neglected in accordance with one's moral obligations.\nDeciding what (if anything) counts as \"morally obligatory\" is a principal concern of ethics.\n\nPhilosophers refer to people who have moral responsibility for an action as moral agents. Agents have the capability to reflect upon their situation, to form intentions about how they will act, and then to carry out that action. The notion of free will has become an important issue in the debate on whether individuals are ever morally responsible for their actions and, if so, in what sense. Incompatibilists regard determinism as at odds with free will, whereas compatibilists think the two can coexist.\nMoral responsibility does not necessarily equate to legal responsibility. A person is legally responsible for an event when a legal system is liable to penalise that person for that event. Although it may often be the case that when a person is morally responsible for an act, they are also legally responsible for it, the two states do not always coincide.\n\nDepending on how a philosopher conceives of free will, they will have different views on moral responsibility.\n\nMetaphysical libertarians think actions are not always causally determined, allowing for the possibility of free will and thus moral responsibility. All libertarians are also incompatibilists; they think that if causal determinism were true of human action; people would not have free will. Accordingly, libertarians subscribe to the principle of alternate possibilities, which posits that moral responsibility requires that people could have acted differently.\n\nPhenomenological considerations are sometimes invoked by incompatibilists to defend a libertarian position. In daily life, we feel as though choosing otherwise is a viable option. Although this feeling doesn't firmly establish the existence of free will, some incompatibilists claim the phenomenological feeling of alternate possibilities is a prerequisite for free will.\n\nJean-Paul Sartre suggested that people sometimes avoid incrimination and responsibility by hiding behind determinism: \"...we are always ready to take refuge in a belief in determinism if this freedom weighs upon us or if we need an excuse\".\n\nA similar view has it that individual moral culpability lies in individual character. That is, a person with the character of a murderer has no choice other than to murder, but can still be punished because it is right to punish those of bad character. How one's character was determined is irrelevant from this perspective. Robert Cummins, for example, argues that people should not be judged for their individual actions, but rather for how those actions \"reflect on their character\". If character (however defined) is the dominant causal factor in determining one's choices, and one's choices are morally wrong, then one should be held accountable for those choices, regardless of genes and other such factors.\n\nIn law, there is a known exception to the assumption that moral culpability lies in either individual character or freely willed acts. The insanity defense—or its corollary, diminished responsibility (a sort of appeal to the fallacy of the single cause)—can be used to argue that the guilty deed was not the product of a guilty mind. In such cases, the legal systems of most Western societies assume that the person is in some way not at fault, because his actions were a consequence of abnormal brain function (implying brain function is a deterministic causal agent of mind and motive).\n\nThe argument from luck is a criticism against the libertarian conception of moral responsibility. It suggests that any given action, and even a person's character, is the result of various forces outside that person's control. It may not be reasonable, then, to hold that person solely morally responsible. Thomas Nagel suggests that four different types of luck (including genetic influences and other external factors) end up influencing the way that a person's actions are evaluated morally. For instance, a person driving drunk may make it home without incident, and yet this action of \"drunk driving\" might seem more morally objectionable if someone happens to jaywalk along his path (getting hit by the car).\n\nThis argument can be traced back to David Hume. If physical indeterminism is true, then those events that are not determined are scientifically described as probabilistic or random. It is therefore argued that it is doubtful that one can praise or blame someone for performing an action generated randomly by his nervous system (without there being any non-physical agency responsible for the observed probabilistic outcome).\n\nHard determinists (not to be confused with Fatalists) often use liberty in practical moral considerations, rather than a notion of a free will. Indeed, faced with the possibility that determinism requires a completely different moral system, some proponents say \"So much the worse for free will!\". Clarence Darrow, the famous defense attorney, pleaded the innocence of his clients, Leopold and Loeb, by invoking such a notion of hard determinism. During his summation, he declared:\n\nPaul the Apostle, in his Epistle to the Romans addresses the question of moral responsibility as follows: \"Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour?\" In this view, individuals can still be dishonoured for their acts even though those acts were ultimately completely determined by God.\n\nJoshua Greene and Jonathan Cohen, researchers in the emerging field of neuroethics, argue, on the basis of such cases, that our current notion of moral responsibility is founded on libertarian (and dualist) intuitions. They argue that cognitive neuroscience research (e.g. neuroscience of free will) is undermining these intuitions by showing that the brain is responsible for our actions, not only in cases of florid psychosis, but also in less obvious situations. For example, damage to the frontal lobe reduces the ability to weigh uncertain risks and make prudent decisions, and therefore leads to an increased likelihood that someone will commit a violent crime. This is true not only of patients with damage to the frontal lobe due to accident or stroke, but also of adolescents, who show reduced frontal lobe activity compared to adults, and even of children who are chronically neglected or mistreated. In each case, the guilty party can, they argue, be said to have less responsibility for his actions. Greene and Cohen predict that, as such examples become more common and well known, jurors’ interpretations of free will and moral responsibility will move away from the intuitive libertarian notion that currently underpins them.\n\nGreene and Cohen also argue that the legal system does not require this libertarian interpretation. Rather, they suggest that only retributive notions of justice, in which the goal of the legal system is to punish people for misdeeds, require the libertarian intuition. Many forms of ethically realistic and consequentialist approaches to justice, which are aimed at promoting future welfare rather than retribution, can survive even a hard determinist interpretation of free will. Accordingly, the legal system and notions of justice can thus be maintained even in the face of emerging neuroscientific evidence undermining libertarian intuitions of free will.\n\nNeuroscientist David Eagleman maintains similar ideas. Eagleman says that the legal justice system ought to become more forward looking. He says it is wrong to ask questions of narrow culpability, rather than focusing on what is important: what needs to change in a criminal's behavior and brain. Eagleman is not saying that no one is responsible for their crimes, but rather that the \"sentencing phase\" should correspond with modern neuroscientific evidence. To Eagleman, it is damaging to entertain the illusion that a person can make a single decision that is somehow, suddenly, independent of their physiology and history. He describes what scientists have learned from brain damaged patients, and offers the case of a school teacher who exhibited escalating pedophilic tendencies on two occasions—each time as results of growing tumors. Eagleman also warns that less attractive people and minorities tend to get longer sentencing—all of which he sees as symptoms that more science is needed in the legal system.\n\nDerk Pereboom defends a skeptical position about free will he calls hard incompatibilism. In his view, we cannot have free will if our actions are causally determined by factors beyond our control, or if our actions are indeterministic events—if they happen by chance. Pereboom conceives of free will as the control in action required for moral responsibility in the sense involving deserved blame and praise, punishment and reward. While he acknowledges that libertarian agent causation, the capacity of agents as substances to cause actions without being causally determined by factors beyond their control, is still a possibility, he regards it as unlikely against the backdrop of the most defensible physical theories. Without libertarian agent causation, Pereboom thinks the free will required for moral responsibility in the desert-involving sense is not in the offing. However, he also contends that by contrast with the backward-looking, desert-involving sense of moral responsibility, forward-looking senses are compatible with causal determination. For instance, causally determined agents who act badly might justifiably be blamed with the aim of forming faulty character, reconciling impaired relationships, and protecting others from harm they are apt to cause.\n\nPereboom proposes that a viable criminal jurisprudence is compatible with the denial of deserved blame and punishment. His view rules out retributivist justifications for punishment, but it allows for incapacitation of dangerous criminals on the analogy with quarantine of carriers of dangerous diseases. Isolation of carriers of the Ebola virus can be justified on the ground of the right to defend against threat, a justification that does not reference desert. Pereboom contends that the analogy holds for incapacitation of dangerous criminals. He also argues that the less serious the threat, the more moderate the justifiable method of incapacitation; for certain crimes only monitoring may be needed. In addition, just as we should do what we can, within reasonable bounds, to cure the carriers of the Ebola virus we quarantine, so we should aim to rehabilitate and reintegrate the criminals we incapacitate. Pereboom also proposes that given hard incompatibilism, punishment justified as general deterrence may be legitimate when the penalties don't involve undermining an agent's capacity to live a meaningful, flourishing life, since justifying such moderate penalties need not invoke desert.\n\nCompatibilists contend that even if determinism were true, it would still be possible for us to have free will. The Hindu text \"The Bhagavad Gita\" offers one very early compatibilist account. Facing the prospect of going to battle against kinsmen to whom he has bonds, Arjuna despairs. Krishna attempts to assuage Arjuna's anxieties. He argues that forces of nature come together to produce actions, and it is only vanity that causes us to regard ourselves as the agent in charge of these actions. However, Krishna adds this caveat: \"... [But] the Man who knows the relation between the forces of Nature and actions, witnesses how some forces of Nature work upon other forces of Nature, and becomes [not] their slave...\" When we are ignorant of the relationship between forces of Nature, we become passive victims of nomological facts. Krishna's admonition is intended to get Arjuna to perform his duty (i.e., fight in the battle), but he is also claiming that being a successful moral agent requires being mindful of the wider circumstances in which one finds oneself. Paramahansa Yogananda also said, \"Freedom means the power to act by soul guidance, not by the compulsions of desires and habits. Obeying the ego leads to bondage; obeying the soul brings liberation.\"\n\nIn the Western tradition, Baruch Spinoza echoes the \"Bhagavad Gita\"s point about agents and natural forces, writing \"men think themselves free because they are conscious of their volitions and their appetite, and do not think, even in their dreams, of the causes by which they are disposed to wanting and willing, because they are ignorant [of those causes].\" Krishna is hostile to the influence of passions on our rational faculties, speaking up instead for the value of heeding the dictates of one's own nature: \"Even a wise man acts under the impulse of his nature. Of what use is restraint?\" Spinoza similarly identifies the taming of one's passions as a way to extricate oneself from merely being passive in the face of external forces and a way toward following our own natures.\n\nDaniel Dennett asks why anyone would care about whether someone had the property of responsibility and speculates that the idea of moral responsibility may be \"a purely metaphysical hankering\".\n\nMauro suggests that a sense of personal responsibility does not operate or evolve universally among humankind. He argues that it was absent in the successful civilization of the Iroquois.\n\nIn recent years, research in experimental philosophy has explored whether people's untutored intuitions about determinism and moral responsibility are compatibilist or incompatibilist. Some experimental work has included cross-cultural studies. However, the debate about whether people naturally have compatibilist or incompatibilist intuitions has not come out overwhelmingly in favor of one view or the other, finding evidence for both views. For instance, when people are presented with abstract cases that ask if a person could be morally responsible for an immoral act when they could not have done otherwise, people tend to say no, or give \"incompatibilist\" answers. When presented with a specific immoral act that a specific person committed, people tend to say that that person is morally responsible for their actions, even if they were determined (that is, people also give \"compatibilist\" answers).\n\nThe neuroscience of free will investigates various experiments that might shed light on free will.\n\nWhen people attribute moral responsibility, they usually attribute it to individual moral agents. However, Joel Feinberg, among others, has argued that corporations and other groups of people can have what is called ‘collective moral responsibility’ for a state of affairs. For example, when South Africa had an apartheid regime, the country's government might have been said to have had collective moral responsibility for the violation of the rights of non-European South Africans.\n\nOne of the attributes defined for psychopathy is \"failure to accept responsibility for own actions\".\n\nThe emergence of automation, robotics and related technologies prompted the question, 'Can an artificial system be morally responsible?' The question has a closely related variant, 'When (if ever) does moral responsibility transfer from its human creator(s) to the system?'.\n\nThe questions \"arguably\" adjoin with but are distinct from machine ethics, which is concerned with the moral behavior of artificial systems. Whether an artificial system's behavior qualifies it to be morally responsible has been a key focus of debate.\n\nBatya Friedman and Peter Kahn Jr posited that intentionality is a necessary condition for moral responsibility, and that computer systems as conceivable in 1992 in material and structure could not have intentionality.\n\nArthur Kuflik asserted that humans must bear the ultimate moral responsibility for a computer's decisions, as it is humans who design the computers and write their programs. He further proposed that humans can never relinquish oversight of computers.\n\nFrances Grodzinsky et al. considered artificial systems that could be modelled as finite state machines. They posited that if the machine had a fixed state transition table, then it could not be morally responsible. If the machine could modify its table, then the machine's designer still retained some moral responsibility.\n\nPatrick Hew argued that for an artificial system to be morally responsible, its rules for behaviour and the mechanisms for supplying those rules must not be supplied entirely by external humans. He further argued that such systems are a substantial departure from technologies and theory as extant in 2014. An artificial system based on those technologies will carry zero responsibility for its behaviour. Moral responsibility is apportioned to the humans that created and programmed the system.\n\nColin Allen et al. proposed that an artificial system may be morally responsible if its behaviours are functionally indistinguishable from a moral person, coining the idea of a 'Moral Turing Test'. They subsequently disavowed the Moral Turing Test in recognition of controversies surrounding the Turing Test.\n\nAndreas Matthias described a 'responsibility gap' where to hold humans responsible for a machine would be an injustice, but to hold the machine responsible would challenge 'traditional' ways of ascription. He proposed three cases where the machine's behaviour ought to be attributed to the machine and not its designers or operators. First, he argued that modern machines are inherently unpredictable (to some degree), but perform tasks that need to be performed yet cannot be handled by simpler means. Second, that there are increasing 'layers of obscurity' between manufacturers and system, as hand coded programs are replaced with more sophisticated means. Third, in systems that have rules of operation that can be changed during the operation of the machine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2035310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2035310", "title": "Neurochip", "text": "Neurochip\n\nA neurochip is a chip (integrated circuit/microprocessor) that is designed for the interaction with neuronal cells.\n\nIt is made of silicon that is doped in such a way that it contains EOSFETs (electrolyte-oxide-semiconductor FET) that can sense the electrical activity of the neurons (action potentials) in the above-standing physiological electrolyte solution. It also contains capacitors for the electrical stimulation of the neurons. The University of Calgary, Faculty of Medicine scientists led by Pakistani born Canadian scientist Naweed Syed who proved it is possible to cultivate a network of brain cells that reconnect on a silicon chip—or the brain on a microchip—have developed new technology that monitors brain cell activity at a resolution never achieved before.\n\nDeveloped with the National Research Council Canada (NRC), the new silicon chips are also simpler to use, which will help future understanding of how brain cells work under normal conditions and permit drug discoveries for a variety of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's.\n\nNaweed Syed's lab cultivated brain cells on a microchip.\nThe new technology from the lab of Naweed Syed, in collaboration with the NRC, was published online in August 2010, in the journal, Biomedical Devices.\n\n\"This technical breakthrough means we can track subtle changes in brain activity at the level of ion channels and synaptic potentials, which are also the most suitable target sites for drug development in neurodegenerative diseases and neuropsychological disorders,\" says Syed, professor and head of the Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, member of the Hotchkiss Brain Institute and advisor to the Vice President Research on Biomedical Engineering Initiative of the University of Chicago.\n\nThe new neurochips are also automated, meaning that anyone can learn to place individual brain cells on them. Previously it took years of training to learn how to record ion channel activity from brain cells, and it was only possible to monitor one or two cells simultaneously. Now, larger networks of cells can be placed on a chip and observed in minute detail, allowing the analysis of several brain cells networking and performing automatic, large-scale drug screening for various brain dysfunctions.\n\nThis new technology has the potential to help scientists in a variety of fields and on a variety of research projects. Gerald Zamponi, professor and head of the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, and member of the Hotchkiss Brain Institute, says, “This technology can likely be scaled up such that it will become a novel tool for medium throughput drug screening, in addition to its usefulness for basic biomedical research”.\n\n\"In previous studies, researchers developed a neurochip that could directly stimulate and record brain cell activity. Now, Orly Yadid-Pecht and Naweed Syed have successfully developed a novel lab-on-a-chip technology that, through an ultra-sensitive component built directly on the microchip, also enables direct imaging of activity in brain cells.\"\n\nPresent applications are neuron research. Future applications (still in the experimental phase) are retinal implants or brain implants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29038352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29038352", "title": "Nysa (wife of Pharnaces I of Pontus)", "text": "Nysa (wife of Pharnaces I of Pontus)\n\nNysa or Nyssa (, flourished early 2nd century BC) was a Greek Seleucid princess and a queen of the Kingdom of Pontus.\n\nNysa was of Greek Macedonian and Persian descent. She was a daughter the Seleucid Prince Antiochus and Seleucid Queen Laodice IV. Her parents were blood siblings and her parent’s marriage was the first sibling marriage to occur in the Seleucid dynasty. The grandparents of Nysa were the Seleucid King Antiochus III the Great and Seleucid Queen Laodice III. Her father Antiochus, was appointed by Antiochus III to succeed him as his first heir.\n\nNysa was born between 196 BC and 193 BC. In 193 BC, her father had died. Her family grieved over his death, in particular Antiochus III. Laodice IV, later married her brothers Seleucus IV Philopator and Antiochus IV Epiphanes, who were both uncles and stepfathers of Nysa. Through her mother’s marriages, she had various half brothers and sisters. \n\nIn the year 172 BC or 171 BC, thanks to the diplomatic efforts of her maternal half-brother Seleucid King Demetrius I Soter, Nysa married the King Pharnaces I of Pontus. The marriage between Pharnaces and Nysa represented a continuation and a strengthening of the pro-Seleucid orientation of Pontus' foreign policy. Through his marriage to Nysa, Pharnaces tried to increase his political influence and Pontian power and affairs in foreign political relations with the Roman Republic and across Anatolia. Nysa and Pharnaces were related as he was a first cousin to Nysa’s parents, thus Pharnaces was related to the Seleucid dynasty. Little is known on Nysa’s relationship with Pharnaces and how she reigned as Queen of Pontus.\n\nHonorific statues and inscriptions have survived that were dedicated to Nysa. Pharnaces set about establishing good relations with the citizens of Athens and the Greek island of Delos. Pharnaces made a donation to the people of Athens. While the exact nature of the donation is unknown, it is thought that Pharnaces' donation to Athens occurred soon after 183 BC. A lengthy inscription from the Athenians on Delos honours Pharnaces and Nysa. Pharnaces and Nysa received a crown of gold from them and bronze statues of themselves were set up on Delos. Their lengthy Athenian honorific inscription, is dated during the archonship of the Athenian Tychandrus or Tychander which is now generally accepted to around 160 BC or 159 BC.\n\nNysa bore Pharnaces two children: a son called Mithridates V of Pontus and a daughter called Nysa of Cappadocia, who was also known as Laodice. Nysa is believed to have died during childbirth.\n\n"}
{"id": "56285691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56285691", "title": "Ochyrocera aragogue", "text": "Ochyrocera aragogue\n\nOchyrocera aragogue is a species of spider of the genus \"Ochyrocera\". It is endemic to Brazil. It was named after the giant spider Aragog in \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\". \n\n"}
{"id": "216151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216151", "title": "Pesticide resistance", "text": "Pesticide resistance\n\nPesticide resistance describes the decreased susceptibility of a pest population to a pesticide that was previously effective at controlling the pest. Pest species evolve pesticide resistance via natural selection: the most resistant specimens survive and pass on their acquired heritable changes traits to their offspring.\n\nCases of resistance have been reported in all classes of pests (\"i.e.\" crop diseases, weeds, rodents, \"etc.\"), with 'crises' in insect control occurring early-on after the introduction of pesticide use in the 20th century. The Insecticide Resistance Action Committee (IRAC) definition of insecticide resistance is 'a heritable change in the sensitivity of a pest population that is reflected in the repeated failure of a product to achieve the expected level of control when used according to the label recommendation for that pest species'.\n\nPesticide resistance is increasing. Farmers in the US lost 7% of their crops to pests in the 1940s; over the 1980s and 1990s, the loss was 13%, even though more pesticides were being used. Over 500 species of pests have evolved a resistance to a pesticide. Other sources estimate the number to be around 1,000 species since 1945.\n\nAlthough the evolution of pesticide resistance is usually discussed as a result of pesticide use, it is important to keep in mind that pest populations can also adapt to non-chemical methods of control. For example, the northern corn rootworm (\"Diabrotica barberi\") became adapted to a corn-soybean crop rotation by spending the year when field is planted to soybeans in a diapause.\n\nAs of 2014, few new weed killers are near commercialization, and none with a novel, resistance-free mode of action.\n\nPesticide resistance probably stems from multiple factors:\n\nMany pest species produce large broods. This increases the probability of mutations and ensures the rapid expansion of resistant populations.\n\nPest species had been exposed to natural toxins long before agriculture began. For example, many plants produce phytotoxins to protect them from herbivores. As a result, coevolution of herbivores and their host plants required development of the physiological capability to detoxify or tolerate poisons.\n\nHumans often rely almost exclusively on pesticides for pest control. This increases selection pressure towards resistance. Pesticides that fail to break down quickly contribute to selection for resistant strains even after they are no longer being applied.\n\nIn response to resistance, managers may increase pesticide quantities/frequency, which exacerbates the problem. In addition, some pesticides are toxic toward species that feed on or compete with pests. This can allow the pest population to expand, requiring more pesticides. This is sometimes referred to as \"pesticide trap\", or a \"pesticide treadmill\", since farmers progressively pay more for less benefit.\n\nInsect predators and parasites generally have smaller populations and are less likely to evolve resistance than are pesticides' primary targets, such as mosquitoes and those that feed on plants. Weakening them allows the pests to flourish. Alternatively, resistant predators can be bred in laboratories.\n\nPests with limited diets are more likely to evolve resistance, because they are exposed to higher pesticide concentrations and has less opportunity to breed with unexposed populations.\n\nPests with shorter generation times develop resistance more quickly than others.\n\nResistance has evolved in multiple species: resistance to insecticides was first documented by A. L. Melander in 1914 when scale insects demonstrated resistance to an inorganic insecticide. Between 1914 and 1946, 11 additional cases were recorded. The development of organic insecticides, such as DDT, gave hope that insecticide resistance was a dead issue. However, by 1947 housefly resistance to DDT had evolved. With the introduction of every new insecticide class – cyclodienes, carbamates, formamidines, organophosphates, pyrethroids, even \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" – cases of resistance surfaced within two to 20 years.\n\n\n\nPests becomes resistant by evolving physiological changes that protect them from the chemical.\n\nOne protection mechanism is to increase the number of copies of a gene, allowing the organism to produce more of a protective enzyme that breaks the pesticide into less toxic chemicals. Such enzymes include esterases, glutathione transferases, and mixed microsomal oxidases.\n\nAlternatively, the number and/or sensitivity of biochemical receptors that bind to the pesticide may be reduced.\n\nBehavioral resistance has been described for some chemicals. For example, some \"Anopheles\" mosquitoes evolved a preference for resting outside that kept them away from pesticide sprayed on interior walls.\n\nResistance may involve rapid excretion of toxins, secretion of them within the body away from vulnerable tissues and decreased penetration through the body wall.\n\nMutation in only a single gene can lead to the evolution of a resistant organism. In other cases, multiple genes are involved. Resistant genes are usually autosomal. This means that they are located on autosomes (as opposed to allosomes, also known as sex chromosomes). As a result, resistance is inherited similarly in males and females. Also, resistance is usually inherited as an incompletely dominant trait. When a resistant individual mates with a susceptible individual, their progeny generally has a level of resistance intermediate between the parents.\n\nAdaptation to pesticides comes with an evolutionary cost, usually decreasing relative fitness of organisms in the absence of pesticides. Resistant individuals often have reduced reproductive output, life expectancy, mobility, etc. Non-resistant individuals grow in frequency in the absence of pesticides, offering one way to combat resistance.\n\nBlowfly maggots produce an enzyme that confers resistance to organochloride insecticides. Scientists have researched ways to use this enzyme to break down pesticides in the environment, which would detoxify them and prevent harmful environmental effects. A similar enzyme produced by soil bacteria that also breaks down organochlorides works faster and remains stable in a variety of conditions.\n\nIntegrated pest management (IPM) approach provides a balanced approach to minimizing resistance.\n\nResistance can be managed by reducing use of a pesticide. This allows non-resistant organisms to out-compete resistant strains. They can later be killed by returning to use of the pesticide.\n\nA complementary approach is to site untreated refuges near treated croplands where susceptible pests can survive.\n\nWhen pesticides are the sole or predominant method of pest control, resistance is commonly managed through pesticide rotation. This involves switching among pesticide classes with different modes of action to delay or mitigate pest resistance. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) designates different classes of fungicides, herbicides and insecticides. Manufacturers may recommend no more than a specified number of consecutive applications of a pesticide class be made before moving to a different pesticide class.\n\nTwo or more pesticides with different modes of action can be tankmixed on the farm to improve results and delay or mitigate existing pest resistance.\n\nGlyphosate-resistant weeds are now present in the vast majority of soybean, cotton, and corn farms in some U.S. states. Weeds resistant to multiple herbicide modes of action are also on the rise.\n\nBefore glyphosate, most herbicides would kill a limited number of weed species, forcing farmers to continually rotate their crops and herbicides to prevent resistance. Glyphosate disrupts the ability of most plants to construct new proteins. Glyphosate-tolerant transgenic crops are not affected.\n\nA weed family that includes waterhemp (\"Amaranthus rudis\") has developed glyphosate-resistant strains. A 2008 to 2009 survey of 144 populations of waterhemp in 41 Missouri counties revealed glyphosate resistance in 69%. Weed surveys from some 500 sites throughout Iowa in 2011 and 2012 revealed glyphosate resistance in approximately 64% of waterhemp samples.\n\nIn response to the rise in glyphosate resistance, farmers turned to other herbicides—applying several in a single season. In the United States, most midwestern and southern farmers continue to use glyphosate because it still controls most weed species, applying other herbicides, known as residuals, to deal with resistance.\n\nThe use of multiple herbicides appears to have slowed the spread of glyphosate resistance. From 2005 through 2010 researchers discovered 13 different weed species that had developed resistance to glyphosate. From 2010-2014 only two more were discovered.\n\nA 2013 Missouri survey showed that multiply-resistant weeds had spread. 43% of the sampled weed populations were resistant to two different herbicides, 6% to three and 0.5% to four. In Iowa a survey revealed dual resistance in 89% of waterhemp populations, 25% resistant to three and 10% resistant to five.\n\nResistance increases pesticide costs. For southern cotton, herbicide costs climbed from between $50 and $75 per hectare a few years ago to about $370 per hectare in 2014. In the South, resistance contributed to the shift that reduced cotton planting by 70% in Arkansas and 60% in Tennessee. For soybeans in Illinois, costs rose from about $25 to $160 per hectare.\n\nDuring 2009 and 2010, some Iowa fields showed severe injury to corn producing Bt toxin Cry3Bb1 by western corn rootworm. During 2011, mCry3A corn also displayed insect damage, including cross-resistance between these toxins. Resistance persisted and spread in Iowa. Bt corn that targets western corn rootworm does not produce a high dose of Bt toxin, and displays less resistance than that seen in a high-dose Bt crop.\n\nProducts such as Capture LFR (containing the pyrethroid Bifenthrin) and SmartChoice (containing a pyrethroid and an organophosphate) have been increasingly used to complement Bt crops that farmers find alone to be unable to prevent insect-driven injury. Multiple studies have found the practice to be either ineffective or to accelerate the development of resistant strains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "360336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360336", "title": "Philip I, Count of Flanders", "text": "Philip I, Count of Flanders\n\nPhilip of Alsace (1143 – 1 August 1191) was count of Flanders from 1168 to 1191. He succeeded his father Thierry of Alsace.\n\nHis reign began in 1157, while he acted as regent and co-count for his father, Thierry, who was away on crusade. He defeated Floris III, Count of Holland and stopped the piracy. Floris was captured in Bruges and remained in prison until 1167, at which point he was being ransomed in exchange for recognition of Flemish suzerainty over Zeeland. By inheritance, Philip also recovered for Flanders the territories of Waasland and Quatre-Métiers.\n\nIn 1159, Philip married Elisabeth of Vermandois, also known as Isabelle, elder daughter of count Raoul I of Vermandois and Petronilla of Aquitaine. When his brother-in-law died (1167), his wife inherited the county of Vermandois. This pushed Flemish authority further south, to its greatest extent thus far, and threatened to completely alter the balance of power in northern France.\n\nPhilip governed wisely with the aid of Robert d'Aire, whose role was almost that of a prime minister. They established an effective administrative system and Philip's foreign relations were excellent. He mediated in disputes between Louis VII of France and Henry II of England, between Henry II and Thomas Becket, and arranged the marriage of his sister Margaret with Baldwin V, Count of Hainaut.\n\nPhilip and Elisabeth were childless. In 1175, Philip discovered that Elisabeth was committing adultery and had her lover, Walter de Fontaines, beaten to death. Philip then obtained complete control of her lands in Vermandois from King Louis VII of France. Philip's brothers Matthew and Peter of Alsace also died, so in 1177, before going on crusade, he designated Margaret and Baldwin as his heirs.\n\nIn the Holy Land, Philip hoped to take part in a planned invasion of Egypt, for which purpose the crusaders had allied with the Byzantine Empire. A Byzantine fleet of 150 galleys was waiting at Acre when Philip arrived on 2 August. Philip had other plans, however. He and King Baldwin IV of Jerusalem were first cousins, sharing a grandfather, King Fulk, whose daughter from his first marriage, Sibylla of Anjou, was Philip's mother. Baldwin IV was a leper and childless, and offered Philip the regency of the Kingdom of Jerusalem as his closest male relative currently present there. Philip refused both this and the command of the army of the kingdom, saying he was there only as a pilgrim. Instead Baldwin appointed Raynald of Châtillon, to whom Philip would act as an assistant. As William of Tyre says, \"this being the situation, the count at last revealed the secret thought of his mind and did not try to conceal to what end all his plans were.\" He had come to have his own vassals married to his cousins, Baldwin's sister Sibylla and half-sister Isabella.\n\nSibylla's husband William of Montferrat had just died, leaving her pregnant with the future Baldwin V. William of Tyre, the chief negotiator in this dispute, told the count it would be improper to marry her off again so soon. According to the chronicle of Ernoul, Philip was also rebuffed by Raymond III of Tripoli, who also claimed the regency, as well as by Raymond's supporters from the Ibelins, who hoped to marry the princesses into their own family. Baldwin of Ibelin insulted the count in public. Philip left Jerusalem in October to campaign in the north for the Principality of Antioch, participating in an unsuccessful siege of Harim before returning home. Meanwhile, the Byzantine alliance against Egypt was abandoned. In November, Baldwin IV and Raynald defeated Saladin at the Battle of Montgisard.\n\nPhilip returned from Palestine in 1179, at which point Louis VII, now sick, named him guardian of his young son Philip II. One year later, Philip of Alsace had his protégé married to his niece, Isabelle of Hainaut, offering the County of Artois and other Flemish territories as dowry, much to the dismay of Baldwin V. When Louis VII died, Philip II began to assert his independence. War broke out in 1180. Picardy and Île-de-France were devastated. King Philip refused to give open battle and gained the upper hand. Baldwin V, at first allied with his brother-in-law, intervened in 1184 on behalf of his son-in-law, King Philip, in support of his daughter's interests. The dispute between Count Philip and Baldwin was encouraged by King Philip, who went so far as to name Baldwin his representative in negotiations with the Count.\n\nCount Philip's wife, Elisabeth, died in 1183, prompting King Philip II to seize the province of Vermandois on behalf of Elisabeth's sister, Eleonore. Philip then remarried, to Matilda, daughter of Afonso I, the first King of Portugal. Philip gave Matilda a dower that included a number of major Flemish towns, in an apparent slight to Baldwin V. Fearing that he would be surrounded by the royal domain of France and the County of Hainaut, Count Philip signed a peace treaty with King Philip II and Count Baldwin V on 10 March 1186, recognizing the cession of Vermandois to the king, although he was allowed to retain the title Count of Vermandois for the remainder of his life.\n\nIn 1190, Philip took the cross for a second time and joined the Flemish contingents which had already gone to Palestine. After arriving at the Siege of Acre, he was stricken by the epidemic passing through the crusader camp, and died on 1 August 1191. His body was brought back to Flanders by his wife, who acted as regent during his absence. Philip was buried in Clairvaux Abbey. Since he was unsuccessful in producing an heir with Countess Matilda, he was succeeded by his sister Margaret and his brother-in-law, Baldwin, who thereupon ruled as Baldwin VII of Flanders.\n\nPhilip seems to represent the end of one kind of feudal world and the beginning of a new type of sovereignty, put into practice by King Philip: for the first time, a king of France ruled over a count of Flanders. Despite a costly war, the economic expansion of Flanders did not stop, as witnessed by the number of communal charters signed by Count Philip. By the end of his reign, the county had entered into a period of unprecedented prosperity.\n\nPhilip may have been the patron of Chrétien de Troyes while he was writing his last romance, \"Perceval, the Story of the Grail\". In the opening lines, Chrétien honours Philip with \"excessive praise\" (Roach, Frappier, Hilka, et al.) for providing him with the book he adapted into the \"best tale ever told in a royal court\". The work, which was obviously begun sometime before Philip's death, remains unfinished.\n\n"}
{"id": "26889539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26889539", "title": "Pokémon Black and White", "text": "Pokémon Black and White\n\nSimilar to previous installments of the series, the two games follow the journey of a young Pokémon trainer through the region of Unova, as they train Pokémon used to compete against other trainers, while thwarting the schemes of the criminal organization Team Plasma. \"Black\" and \"White\" introduced 156 new Pokémon to the franchise, 5 more than the previous record holder \"Red\" and \"Blue\", as well as many new features, including a seasonal cycle, rotation battles, fully animated Pokémon sprites and triple battles. Both titles are independent of each other, but feature largely the same plot, and while both can be played separately, trading Pokémon between both of the games is necessary in order to complete the games' Pokédex.\n\nUpon their release, \"Black\" and \"White\" received positive reviews; critics praised the advancements in gameplay, as well as several of the new Pokémon introduced; much acclaim went to the unique, complex plot. Reviewers, however, were divided on some of the character designs, and some critics felt that the games did not innovate as much as expected. Nevertheless, the games were commercial successes; prior to the games' Japanese release, \"Black\" and \"White\" sold one million consumer pre-orders and sold five million copies as of January 2011, making it one of the best selling DS games to date. As of September 2017, the games' combined sales have reached 15.64 million, putting the titles amongst the best selling games for the Nintendo DS, but still being outsold by their predecessors, \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\".\nSequels to \"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\", \"Pokémon Black 2\" and \"White 2\", were released in Japan for the Nintendo DS in June 2012, with October releases in North America, Europe, and Australia.\n\n\"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\" are role-playing video games with adventure elements, presented in a third-person, overhead perspective. There are three basic screens: an overworld, in which the player navigates the main character; a battle screen; and the menu, in which the player configures their party, items, or gameplay settings. The player controls a Pokémon Trainer who begins the game with a single Pokémon and is able to capture more using Poké Balls. Like all other Trainers, the player can carry up to six Pokémon at one time. However, the game also includes a network of PCs to store hundreds of Pokémon. PCs are found in certain buildings—namely, \"Pokémon Centers\", where the player heals their Pokémon with low health.\n\nMost Pokémon evolve into other forms when certain conditions are met, such as when they reach a certain level—levels range from 1 to 100—or have a certain item used on them. They can learn up to four moves, including attacking moves, healing moves, and moves that inflict status conditions on the opponent. They have six stats that affect battle performance: maximum HP (hit points), Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed. Attack and Special Attack are distinguished from Defense and Special Defense by the types of moves being considered: generally, moves involving physical exertion are physical, while moves involving supernatural or elemental powers are special. Moves are classed as one of seventeen types, (Normal, Water, Grass, Fire, Electric, Ghost, Bug, Fighting, Ice, Steel, Rock, Poison, Psychic, Dark, Dragon, Ground, and Flying); Pokémon can have one or two types. Generally, most of a Pokémon's moves correspond to its typing. A Pokémon's type makes it vulnerable or resistant to others; for example, Fire-type Pokémon are weak to Water-type moves, while Grass-type moves do little damage to them and Electric-type moves do normal damage.\n\nWhen the player encounters a wild Pokémon or is challenged by another Trainer to a battle, the screen switches to a turn-based battle screen where the Pokémon fight. During battle, the player may fight, use an item, switch the active Pokémon, or flee. However, the player cannot flee a battle against another Trainer or against certain wild Pokémon that are stronger than the player's. When a Pokémon's HP is reduced to zero, it faints until it is revived. If an opposing Pokémon faints, all of the player's Pokémon who participated in defeating it receive experience points. After accumulating enough experience points, a Pokémon may level up, increasing its stats. Many Pokémon evolve into other forms, usually by reaching certain levels. At the \"Day Care\" location, the player can breed two of their Pokémon—usually, a male and a female—to create Eggs that hatch into baby Pokémon at level 1.\n\nThe world of \"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\", known as Unova, consists of a number of cities and towns connected by \"Routes\". Random encounters may take place in tall grass along routes or in bodies of water. The player occasionally battles Trainers in cities and towns, as well as along routes. In addition, eight of the game's cities and towns are homes to \"Gym Leaders\", powerful Trainers specializing in certain types of Pokémon; beating a Gym Leader gives the player a \"Badge\". All eight Badges are needed to unlock the Pokémon League, where the player faces off against the \"Elite Four\" and, finally, the Champion. Across Unova, items can be found on the ground or purchased from \"Poké Marts\". For example, Hyper Potions restore HP, Antidotes cure poisoning, and Revives revitalize fainted Pokémon. TMs (Technical Machines) teach moves to Pokémon, and HMs (Hidden Machines) are a special class of TMs for important moves that allow the player to traverse the environment. The \"Surf\" HM move, as one example, is used to cross bodies of water.\n\nThe graphics have been improved from \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". The dialog boxes of previous games have been changed to speech balloons that appear over other characters' heads, allowing more than one character to speak at once. Japanese players can have kanji appear on screen, rather than only hiragana and katakana. During battles, the sprites of the Pokémon are fully animated and the camera changes position to highlight specific parts of the battle. In addition to continuing the day and night cycle introduced in \"Gold\" and \"Silver\", \"Black\" and \"White\" introduces a seasonal cycle, with the seasons advancing every month rather than being linked to the calendar. Outside areas appear differently depending on the season, such as changing of leaves in autumn or snow on the ground in winter. Certain areas are only accessible during certain seasons, and different Pokémon can be found in the wild in winter where others are encountered in the other seasons. The Pokémon Deerling and Sawsbuck change their physical appearance to match the seasons.\n\nThere are two new battle mechanics: Triple Battles and Rotation Battles. In Triple Battles, both teams must send out three Pokémon in a row at once; Pokémon on the left or right side can only attack the opponent's Pokémon on the same side or in the center. Changing position takes up one turn. In Rotation Battles, each side sends out three Pokémon at once, but they are arranged in a circle that can be rotated at will. \"Black\" has more Rotation Battles than Triple Battles, and the opposite is true in \"White\". Another introduction is Combination Moves: a starter Pokémon can be taught one of three moves, and using them together in Double or Triple battles produces more powerful attacks. In the wild, walking through different-colored tall grass can trigger Double Battles against wild Pokémon rather than only Single Battles as usual.\n\nOccasionally, the player can find rustling patches of grass and rippling water, where they can encounter either a rare Pokémon, a Pokémon more common in the opposite game version, or the highest evolutionary form of a Pokémon whose lower forms can normally be found in the area. This is the only way to capture Pokémon such as Audino, Emolga, and Alomomola. Also, dust clouds in caves and the shadows of flying Pokémon on certain bridges can be entered to either find a rare item or encounter Drilbur, Excadrill, Ducklett, or Swanna, none of which can be found in the wild otherwise. Occasionally, when throwing a Poké Ball, the capture rate is highly increased, triggered by a random event. There are also new side-games and sidequests: the player can compete in Pokémon Musicals, a side-game similar to the Pokémon Contests of previous games; the Battle Subway, similar to the Battle Towers and Battle Frontiers of previous games; and on the \"Royal Unova\", a cruise ship that the player can ride and fight Trainers aboard to win otherwise rare items.\n\nThe replaces the Pokétech from \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" on the Nintendo DS's bottom screen. It controls the game's wireless capabilities, including infrared (IR) communication for battling and trading, wireless communications in the Xtranceiver video chat access to the Entralink to transfer content from the Pokémon Dream World, using the Wi-Fi to sync with the Pokémon Global Link servers, and the new \"Pass By mode\" which allows the game to communicate with other copies through infrared while the DS is asleep. The function tests the compatibility between two players and awards them items accordingly. In the \"Pass By\" feature, the player answers various survey questions and receives one of several items depending on how many other players they have connected with. In the \"Random Matchup\" feature, the player can battle others randomly. When playing against others online or in IR battles, a new mechanic called the Wonder Launcher allows healing items to be used in battle.\n\nTwo features were added to transfer Pokémon from older DS \"Pokémon\" games to \"Black\" and \"White\". For normal transfer, the Poké Transfer feature is available after completion of the main storyline. Unlike the \"Pal Park\" feature from previous games, the Poké Transfer is a mini-game in which after six Pokémon are transferred, the player uses the touch screen to launch Poké Balls at the transferred Pokémon to catch them within a time limit. Another feature called the Relocator is used to transfer the Pokémon given away in promotions for the film \"\" so the player can obtain the rare Pokémon Zorua and Zoroark. Unlike the Poké Transfer, this is available before the main game is completed.\n\nUnique to \"Black\" and \"White\" is the Pokémon Dream World, which is dependent on the official Pokémon Global Link website. Here, the player can befriend Pokémon that are not normally obtainable in-game and that have unique abilities. This occurs after syncing the game back with the Dream World, similarly to the Pokéwalker from \"HeartGold\" and \"SoulSilver\". The player can maintain a house in the Dream World that other players can visit as well as grow berries. In addition to allowing access to Pokémon acquired in the Dream World, the Entralink also enables players to interact with each other and play side-games. These side-games award points that can be traded for temporary powers such as increasing experience, improving capture rate, or lowering prices of items in Poké Marts.\n\n\"Black\" and \"White\" are set in the Unova region, a continental mass located far away from the previous regions, Kanto, Johto, Hoenn and Sinnoh. Unlike the previous regions which were based on real locations in Japan, Unova is modeled after New York City, an idea developed by game director Junichi Masuda when he visited the city for the launch of \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". One particular example of this is Castelia City, which serves as the region's central metropolis and had such inspirations as its \"Brooklyn Bridge-style suspension bridge\" and its \"huge skyscrapers\". Masuda also wanted to convey a \"feeling of communities\" in Castelia's streets. Unova is host to large urban areas, a harbor, an airport, an amusement park, several bridges, and several mountain ranges. In addition to a diversity of new landscapes, the Unova region is also home to a diversity of people who vary in skin tone and occupation. The region's Japanese name is derived from the Japanese words and ; the many kinds of people and Pokémon seen up close look like only one kind of life from afar.\n\nLike previous \"Pokémon\" games, \"Black\" and \"White\" both follow a linear storyline; the main events occur in a fixed order. The protagonist of \"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\" is a teenager who sets out on a journey through Unova to become the Pokémon master. At the beginning of the games, the player chooses either Snivy, Tepig, or Oshawott as their starter Pokémon as a gift from Professor Juniper. The protagonist's friends, Cheren and Bianca, are also rival Pokémon Trainers who occasionally battle the player; Cheren will choose the Pokémon with a type advantage against the player's, while Bianca will choose the Pokémon with a type disadvantage. The player's primary goal is to obtain the eight Gym Badges of Unova and ultimately challenge the Elite Four of the Pokémon League, and its Champion, to win the game.\nIn addition to the standard gameplay, the player will also have to defeat the games' main antagonist force, Team Plasma, a Knights Templar-esque group who claim that Pokémon are oppressed by humanity and seek to liberate them from their trainers.<ref name=\"What You Need To Know About Pokemon Black/White\"></ref> Team Plasma is led by N, a young man who was brought up alongside Pokémon and sees them as friends rather than tools for sport. Throughout the game, the player has some encounters with N, who claims that by capturing one of the legendary Pokémon (Reshiram and Zekrom) of Unova and defeating the Pokémon Champion Alder, he will be recognized as Unova's hero and will be able to convince the humans to part with their Pokémon. Depending on the game version, N will capture Zekrom in \"Black\" or Reshiram in \"White\".\n\nAfter the player defeats the Elite Four and enters the Champion's chamber, he or she finds that N has defeated Alder and become the newest Pokémon Champion. Soon after, he summons a large castle that surrounds the Pokémon League, challenging the player to find him to take part in one final battle. When the player finally reaches him, Reshiram in \"Black\" or Zekrom in \"White\" appears before the player, and the player must capture the legendary Pokémon before challenging N. After his defeat, N laments the possibility that his ideals are mistaken, Ghetsis intrudes and angrily reveals that his true intentions were to use N to ensure that he would be the only human left with control over Pokémon and use them to rule the world. In his rage, Ghetsis challenges the player to battle. After Ghetsis's defeat, he is arrested, allowing Alder to resume his position as the Pokémon Champion of the Unova region. N then thanks the player for helping realize his mistake about the nature of the relationship between people and their Pokémon before leaving the castle on his captured Pokémon to a far-off land.\n\nAfter Team Plasma's defeat, Looker arrives in Unova and tasks the player with finding the remaining Sages of Team Plasma, so they can be brought to justice. The player can also challenge the Elite Four once again, and challenge Alder, ultimately becoming the Unova region's new Pokémon Champion. The player also gains access to the eastern portion of Unova, which contains Pokémon from the previous games in the series, as well as access to an area unique to each game version: the ultra-metropolitan Black City, home to powerful Pokémon trainers; and the White Forest, home to humans and Pokémon living in harmony. Cynthia, a former Champion of the Sinnoh region, is also found in this area of the game and can be challenged. A non-player character named after Shigeki Morimoto, a Game Freak programmer, creature designer, and the director of the \"HeartGold\" and \"SoulSilver\" games, can also be found and battled in the game.\n\nOn January 29, 2010, the Pokémon Company announced that a new game was in development for the Nintendo DS to be released later that year. Director Junichi Masuda stated that several aspects of the series were being revamped for the new generation. On April 9, 2010, the Japanese website updated with the titles of the versions as \"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\", and announced a Q3 2010 release date. The games feature an improved visual style from other Pokémon games, with an increased use of 3D computer graphics than any other of the handheld series. It also has a special feature that allows the user to upload their saved game to the Internet, allowing them to do certain things on an official website.\n\nOn August 3, 2010, Masuda announced on his blog that the \"Black\" and \"White\" game versions will initially only contain brand-new Pokémon to evoke a feeling of it being a brand-new game, like when the original \"Pokémon\" games were first released. In all of the games following the first generation, there were a series of new Pokémon introduced interspersed with Pokémon from the previous generations. For example, Pikachu was introduced in \"Red\" and \"Green\", and was obtainable in \"Blue\", \"Yellow\", and all subsequent main series games; however, Pikachu will not be obtainable in \"Black\" and \"White\" from the start of the game. It was later confirmed that \"Black\" and \"White\" are region locked on the Nintendo DSi and 3DS.\n\nGame director and composer Junichi Masuda stated that to keep the games fresh, he looks at every previous element to decide what to adapt to the new game, stating \"people may not like what they like in the past, trend wise\". He explained the new battle styles, stating that while triple battles take more strategy, rotation battles take more luck to win. Masuda stated that their goal when making the games was to make it fun for new players, but they also wanted to get players who have not played the series in a while to come back. He said that it was hard to find that balance to satisfy both kinds of players. For the new players, there is good explanation in how to play, while for old players, they incorporated the C-Gear, which makes the ability to trade and battle easier. When asked about the decision to introduce over 150 new species of Pokémon, Masuda stated that they did this so old players would not be able to know what is a good Pokémon to use, and it would level the playing ground for new players.\n\n is a four-disc soundtrack featuring the games' music scored by Masuda, Go Ichinose, Shota Kageyama, Hitomi Sato, Morikazu Aoki, Minako Adachi, and Satoshi Nohara. The soundtrack was released on October 20, 2010, in Japan. Ichinose was in charge of directing all Pokémon voices for the game while Minako Adachi produced all sound effects.\n\n\"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\" were released in Japan on September 18, 2010, in Europe on March 4, 2011, and in North America on March 6, 2011. The Australian release was on March 10, 2011.\n\nA silhouette of a new Pokémon was shown by Junichi Masuda on the February 7, 2010 episode of \"Pokémon Sunday\", stated to be in the film for the summer and to be identified in a future episode on February 21. This new Pokémon would also be featured in the March 2010 issue of \"CoroCoro Comic\" available on February 15, and is the start of the fifth generation of the Pokémon franchise. Since then, the Pokémon has been named \"Zoroark\", and it evolves from a Pokémon named \"Zorua\". Both were featured in the film \"\". For pre-order ticket holders, an alternate-colored Raikou, Entei, or Suicune was available for transfer to their \"Diamond\", \"Pearl\", \"Platinum\", \"HeartGold\", or \"SoulSilver\" games. At the theater, players would be able to download a Celebi to the same games. Both of these Pokémon would activate special events in \"Black\" and \"White\" involving Zoroark and Zorua, respectively.\n\nOn April 18, 2010, the episode of \"Pokémon Sunday\" showed game footage of a player character walking around in a 3D environment and a single screenshot depicting a battle between the player's Zoroark and an enemy Zorua. Host Shoko Nakagawa made note of how the player's Zoroark's sprite was a full body sprite as viewed from behind, when in the past all such sprites only showed a smaller portion of the player's Pokémon's body. On May 9, 2010, the episode of \"Pokémon Sunday\" revealed silhouettes of the three Pokémon available to choose from at the beginning of the games, which were later revealed to be the Grass Snake Pokémon Tsutarja, the Fire Pig Pokémon Pokabu, and the Sea Otter Pokémon Mijumaru. Other information revealed is that the game takes place in the Isshu Region which includes the Hiun City metropolis. On May 16, 2010, the episode of \"Pokémon Sunday\" showed game battle footage, illustrating the new in-battle animations and dynamic camera positioning; also described were Zoroark's Illusion ability and the special Zoroark acquired by the movie ticket pre-order gift Pokémon.\n\nOn May 28, 2010, both the official Japanese and English Pokémon websites revealed names and designs of the two major Legendary Pokémon of these games, who also serve as the game version mascots: the White Yang Pokémon Reshiram for \"Pokémon Black\" and the Black Yin Pokémon Zekrom for \"Pokémon White\". The July 2010 issue of \"CoroCoro Comic\" revealed the C-Gear wireless interactivity features, the ability to upload game data to the internet and the player's computer, several brand-new Pokémon, new Pokémon moves, Reshiram and Zekrom's Pokémon types, details on the Celebi/Zorua event, and a new character: Professor Araragi, the first female Pokémon professor to appear in the video games. The June 27, 2010, episode of \"Pokémon Sunday\", made the announcement of the release date as September 18, 2010, and a yet-to-be named character. The June 28 episode of \"Oha Suta\", showed a trailer, which included its release date, new gameplay footage, several new characters, more new Pokémon, and a three-on-three battle system. The August 2010 issue of \"CoroCoro Comic\" elaborated upon many new game mechanics: the three-on-three system, the online Global Link system, an online Dream World that can allow for access to other Pokémon, access to an area that uses the Wi-Fi called the Hilink (similar to the Underground), a special feature called the Live Caster for video chat on the Nintendo DSi and Nintendo 3DS, kanji support, aesthetic differences between the two versions of the game, areas exclusive to the game versions, new characters, new moves, new abilities, and new Pokémon.\n\nThe July 25, 2010, episode of \"Pokémon Sunday\" introduced the new phantom Pokémon Victini, which initially appeared in a trailer for the 2011 \"Pokémon\" film that was shown with screenings of \"Phantom Ruler: Zoroark\". It is noted to be Pokémon No. 000 in Isshu's regional Pokédex, and is only accessible by downloading a special item from Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, , and (such as those found in Japanese McDonald's restaurants) to a game save. This was initially available for a month following the games' release date. Another promotional Pokémon given out after the games' release is a Kumasyun, a Pokémon that is difficult to find in the games unless it is during the games' winter season.\n\nOn the day of the Japanese release, Nintendo of America sent cease and desist letters to two English language Pokémon fansites, PokéBeach and Serebii, after they published screenshots and various other media from the newly released games. Nintendo claimed the posting of the media was infringing copyright and noted their intention to shut down the websites under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act unless the media was removed. The screenshots were subsequently taken down from both websites. Luke Plunkett of video game blog Kotaku initially speculated that Nintendo of America issued the cease and desist letters over the belief that the images were illegally obtained via a ROM image; however, Jon Sahagian of PokéBeach stated the images in question had been obtained from the Japanese forum 2channel. Charlie Scibetta, Nintendo of America's senior director of corporate communications, later stated that it was the choice of images that were of concern to the company. In a statement to Kotaku, he said, \"Nintendo supports and appreciates the efforts that Pokémon fans go through to create fan sites. In most cases there is no issue with the content that is posted, but on this occasion we had to contact a select few websites to ask them to take down confidential images.\"\n\nThe foreign promotion for the games began on November 22, 2010, when the official website for the North American, European, and Australian markets was updated, including the localized names of the starter Pokémon (Snivy, Tepig, and Oshawott in English, Dutch, Italian, Brazilian Portuguese, and Spanish markets) and the setting (Unova Region). Floats of version mascots Reshiram and Zekrom accompanied the Pikachu balloon during the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade on November 25, 2010, the following Thursday.\n\nOn December 27, 2010, the official websites for the international releases updated once more, revealing the English names for many of the first Pokémon revealed during the promotion for the Japanese release. In addition, the English names for the game location Hiun City and the character Professor Araragi were revealed to be Castelia City and Professor Juniper, respectively.\n\nStarting on January 3 and lasting until January 9, 2011, in the United States, players of \"Diamond\", \"Pearl\", \"Platinum\", \"HeartGold\", and \"SoulSilver\" were able to visit GameStop stores to download the special shiny Raikou that was previously given out for \"Phantom Ruler: Zoroark\" pre-order ticket holders in Japan. Similar downloads would be available for the shiny Entei (January 17 to 23) and shiny Suicune (January 31 to February 6). All three of these Pokémon still enabled the event for Zoroark in the North American \"Black\" and \"White\" versions. These three Pokémon were later distributed via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection for European, Australian, and North American markets (for a second time) starting February 7 to 13 with Raikou, again, with subsequent staggered releases for Entei and Suicune throughout February.\n\nThe Celebi event was run in North America and distributed through GameStop stores from February 21 to March 6, 2011, or it could be acquired from the tour promoting the \"Black\" and \"White\" games that began on February 5, 2011. In France and Spain, this same Celebi was available through various retailers from February 1 through March 3, 2011. Italian players could get this Celebi from specific video game retailers from January 21 through March 3.\n\nThe event to distribute the item to allow players to capture Victini was also be run following the games' release internationally. North American players were able to download the item from Nintendo WFC from March 6 to April 10, 2011. European players were able to get the item from March 4 to April 22. Australian players were able to download it from March 10 to April 28, 2011.\n\n\"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\" have received largely positive reviews by critics, having an aggregate score of 87% on Metacritic, indicating generally favorable reviews. Japanese magazine \"Famitsu Weekly\" awarded the game a perfect 40/40 score, becoming the 15th game to receive such a distinction, as well as obtaining the highest score ever given to a \"Pokémon\" video game by the publication. \"Game Informer\"s Annette Gonzalez remarked that \"\"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\" do a great job building upon already solid features and taking them to the next level.\" \"VideoGamer.com\" Jamin Smith criticized the games for not innovating as much as some people would have liked, but stated that \"rest assured in the knowledge that \"Black\" and \"White\" are damn fine games; the best the series has to offer.\" \"Official Nintendo Magazine\" referred to them as \"A beautiful refinement of a great series [...] the best Pokémon ever.\" \"Nintendo Power\" expressed that \"the \"Pokémon\" series's latest pair of adventures is as addictive as ever. \" \"Edge\" acknowledged that \"where next for \"Pokémon\" \"Black\" and \"White\" don't suggest any answers, but they do remind us why we'd care in the first place.\"\n\nIGN gave the games a 9/10, a higher rating than any of the other Nintendo DS \"Pokémon\" games. The review praised the games for renewing interest in the series, though criticized some of the new Pokémon designs, explaining that \"aside from a weaker lineup of monsters (largely an aesthetic complaint), this is the best \"Pokémon\" has to offer on every level, renewing my waning interest in monster battling\". Jeremy Parish of Retronauts criticized \"Black\" and \"White\", commenting that he grew tired of it shortly after starting and feeling like it was too similar to all previous \"Pokémon\" games. He further went on to say that EVs and IVs, invisible mechanics in the game, are not necessarily beneficial. By contrast, he noted that it would be great to new players. He also compared it to the \"Pokémon Mystery Dungeon\" games and \"Final Fantasy XIII\", arguing that they all share the common element of being bad before they get good. Fellow Retronauts contributor Justin Haywald criticized the games' release on the DS, which had received two main \"Pokémon\" series games published before them. GamesRadar editor Carolyn Gudmundson stated \"It may not break the Pokemon mold, but Black/White offers enough new content coupled with the series' classic, deep battle mechanics to make it endlessly playable. If you could only play one game for the rest of your life, this would be a wise choice.\"\n\nIn August 2010, one month before the games' release in Japan, \"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\" gained a total of 1.08 million pre-orders, becoming the fastest game on the Nintendo DS to break the one million mark. In the first two days on sale, it sold more than 2.6 million copies, becoming the biggest launch in the series history in Japan. By November 3, the games had sold over 4.3 million copies in Japan. As of January 9, 2011, the games became the fastest DS titles to sell five million copies.\n\nUpon its release in the UK, \"White\" and \"Black\" took the #1 and #2 spots respectively in the UK overall sales charts, with \"White\" becoming the second fastest-selling DS game ever in the UK after \"Professor Layton and Pandora's Box\", selling 13,000 more copies than \"Black\". Combined, their sales became Nintendo's third biggest ever launch in the UK, behind \"Wii Fit\" and \"Mario Kart Wii\", and the biggest opening weekend ever for a pair of \"Pokémon\" titles.\n\nIn the US, \"Black\" and \"White\" sold more than 1.08 million copies on day one, breaking the previous day-one record held by predecessors \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" of 780,000 copies. According to the NPD Group, Nintendo sold 1.3 million units of \"White\" and 1.1 million units of \"Black\" in March 2011, making them the #1 and #2 top selling games in the US for the month. In April 2011, Nintendo's financial earnings report confirmed that \"Pokémon Black and White\" had sold 11.5 million copies worldwide, making them the highest selling DS games for Nintendo in the 2010-11 financial year, and third overall, behind only the Wii games, \"Wii Sports\" and \"Wii Sports Resort\". As of September 2017, the games' combined sales have reached 15.64 million.\n"}
{"id": "1065272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1065272", "title": "Polystrate fossil", "text": "Polystrate fossil\n\nA polystrate fossil is a fossil of a single organism (such as a tree trunk) that extends through more than one geological stratum. This term is typically applied to \"fossil forests\" of upright fossil tree trunks and stumps that have been found worldwide, i.e. in the Eastern United States, Eastern Canada, England, France, Germany, and Australia, typically associated with coal-bearing strata. Within Carboniferous coal-bearing strata, it is also very common to find what are called \"Stigmaria\" (root stocks) within the same stratum. Stigmaria are completely absent in post-Carboniferous strata, which contain either coal, polystrate trees, or both. The word \"polystrate\" is not a standard geological term. This term is typically found in creationist publications.\n\nIn geology, such fossils are referred to as either upright fossil trunks, upright fossil trees, or \"T0 assemblages\". According to mainstream (actualistic) models of sedimentary environments, they are formed by rare to infrequent brief episodes of rapid sedimentation separated by long periods of either slow deposition, nondeposition, or a combination of both.\n\nUpright fossils typically occur in layers associated with an actively subsiding coastal plain or rift basin, or with the accumulation of volcanic material around a periodically erupting stratovolcano. Typically, this period of rapid sedimentation was followed by a period of time - decades to thousands of years long - characterized by very slow or no accumulation of sediments. In river deltas and other coastal-plain settings, rapid sedimentation is often the end result of a brief period of accelerated subsidence of an area of coastal plain relative to sea level caused by salt tectonics, global sea-level rise, growth faulting, continental margin collapse, or some combination of these factors. For example, geologists such as John W. F. Waldron and Michael C. Rygel have argued that the rapid burial and preservation of polystrate fossil trees found at Joggins, Nova Scotia directly result from rapid subsidence, caused by salt tectonics within an already subsiding pull-apart basin, and from the resulting rapid accumulation of sediments. The specific layers containing polystrate fossils occupy only a very limited fraction of the total area of any of these basins.\n\nThe upright fossil trees of the Gallatin Petrified Forest in the Gallatin Range and the Yellowstone Petrified Forest at Amethyst Mountain and Specimen Ridge in Yellowstone National Park, occur buried within the lahars and other volcanic deposits comprising the Eocene Lamar River Formation as the result of periods of rapid sedimentation associated with explosive volcanism. This type of volcanism generates and deposits large quantities of loose volcanic material as a blanket over the slope of a volcano, as happened during the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo. Both during and for years after a period of volcanism, lahars and normal stream activity wash this loose volcanic material downslope. These processes result in the rapid burial of large areas of the surrounding countryside beneath several meters of sediment, as directly observed during the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo. As with modern lahar deposits, the sedimentary layers containing upright trees of the Yellowstone petrified forest are discontinuous and very limited in areal extent. Individual layers containing upright trees and individual buried forests occupy only a very small fraction of the total area of Yellowstone National Park.\n\nGeologists have recognized innumerable fossil soils (paleosols) throughout the strata containing upright fossils at Joggins in Nova Scotia, in the Yellowstone petrified forests, in the coal mines of the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama, and at many other locations. The layer immediately underlying coal seams, often called either \"seatearth\" or \"underclay\", typically either consists of or contains a paleosol. Paleosols are soils which were formed by subaerial weathering during periods of very slow or no accumulation of sediments. Later, renewed sedimentation buried these soils to create paleosols. These paleosols are identified on the basis of the presence of structures and microstructures unique to soils; animal burrows and molds of plant roots of various sizes and types; recognizable soil-profile development; and alteration of minerals by soil processes. In many cases, these paleosols are virtually identical to modern soils.\n\nGeologists who have long studied upright fossils found in sedimentary rocks exposed in various outcrops for decades have described the upright fossil trees as being deeply rooted in place and typically rooted in recognizable paleosols. This is in sharp contrast to the claims made by creationists such as Harold Coffin and N. A. Rupke. Geologists, such as Falcon and Rygel et al., have published detailed field-sketches and pictures of upright tree-fossils with intact root systems, which are rooted within recognizable paleosols. In the case of the upright fossil trees of the Yellowstone petrified forests, geologists – again in sharp disagreement with creationists like Harold Coffin – found that the upright fossil trees, except for relatively short stumps, are rooted in place within the underlying sediments. Typically, the sediments within which trees are rooted have paleosols developed within them. Retallack (1981, 1997) has published pictures and diagrams of the Yellowstone upright fossil trees having intact root systems developed within paleosols found within these strata.\n\nGeologists have also found that some of the larger upright fossil trees found within Carboniferous coal-bearing strata show evidence of regeneration after being partially buried by sediments. In these cases, the trees were clearly alive when they were partially buried by sediments. The accumulated sediment was insufficient to kill the trees immediately because of their size. As a result, some of them developed a new set of roots from their trunks just below the new ground surface. Until they either died or were overwhelmed by the accumulating sediments, these trees would likely continue to regenerate by adding height and new roots with each increment of sediment, eventually leaving several meters of former \"trunk\" buried underground as sediments accumulated.\n\nIn addition, part of the Carboniferous Period was a period of extensive and thick continental ice sheets. During the Carboniferous ice age, the repeated glacial – interglacial cycles caused major changes in the thickness and extent of continental ice sheets. When these ice sheets expanded in extent and thickness, eustatic sea level typically fell by over a . When these ice sheets shrank in extent and thickness, eustatic sea level typically rose again by typically over a . As occurred during the Holocene Epoch for Meltwater pulse 1A and Meltwater pulse 1B, brief episodes of rapid melting of Carboniferous, Gondwanan continental ice sheets likely caused very rapid rises in sea level that would have abruptly inundated low-lying coastal swamps and drowned the forests growing on them. Based on the sedimentology of roof strata of surface and underground coal mines and cyclothems containing the fossils of upright and in situ tree trunks, geologists proposed that the flooding of coastal swamp by deglacial meltwater pulses resulted in the rapid flooding of coastal forests, particularly along preexisting coastal rivers and streams, over large areas of coastal swamp. During and after their submergence, upright trunks of drowned coastal forests were buried by tidally influenced sedimentation.\n\nGeologists find nothing anomalous about upright fossil trees found in Carboniferous coal-bearing strata being associated with marine or brackish-water fossils. Because they lived on subsiding coastal plains or pull-apart basins open to the coast, it was quite frequent for subsidence to periodically outpace the accumulation of sediments such that adjacent shallow marine waters would periodically inundate coastal plains in which the trees were buried. As a result, sediments containing marine fossils would periodically accumulate within these areas before being replaced by coastal swamps - either as sediments filled in the shallow sea or as the sea level fell. Also, according to ecological reconstructions by geologists, specific assemblages of the types of trees found as upright fossils occupied brackish water, even saline coastal swamps much like modern mangrove swamps. Thus, finding marine and brackish water fossils associated with these trees is no different than finding brackish water or marine animals living in modern mangrove swamps.\n\nA detailed study by Taylor and Vinn (2006) of the microstructure of fossils which have been traditionally identified as \"Spirorbis\" in the geological literature revealed that they consist of the remains of at least two completely different animals. Taylor and Vinn discovered that the \"Spirorbis\" fossils found in sedimentary strata, including the Joggins and other Carboniferous coal measures deposited from the Ordovician to Triassic periods are the remains of an extinct order of lophophorates (now called microconchids) unrelated to modern marine tube-worms (Annelids) to which the genus \"Spirorbis\" belongs. This contradicts arguments made by Harold Coffin and other creationists that \"Spirorbis\" fossils within strata containing polystrate fossils indicate their deposition in a marine environment, because these fossils are classified as the remains of extinct fresh and brackish water microconchids instead of the remains of the marine genera \"Spirorbis\" as they have been misidentified in the geologic literature.\n\nScientists interpret \"polystrate fossils\" as fossils buried in a geologically short time span - either by one large depositional event or by several smaller ones. Geologists see no need to invoke a global flood to explain upright fossils. This position of geologists is supported by numerous documented examples, a few of which are discussed in the paragraphs below, of buried upright tree-trunks that have been observed buried in the Holocene volcanic deposits of Mount St. Helens, Skamania County, Washington, and Mount Pinatubo, Philippines; in the deltaic and fluvial sediments of the Mississippi River Delta; and in glacial deposits within the midwestern United States. These buried upright trees demonstrate that conventional geologic processes are capable of burying and preserving trees in an upright position such that in time, they will become fossilized.\n\nAt this time, the best documented occurrences of unfossilized buried upright trees occur within the historic and late-Holocene volcanic deposits of Mount St. Helens (Skamania County, Washington) and of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines. At Mount St. Helens, both unfossilized and partially fossilized trees have occurred in many outcrops of volcanic debris and mud flows (lahars) and pyroclastic flow deposits, which date from 1885 to over 30,000 BP., along the South Toutle and other rivers. Late Holocene forests of upright trees also occur within the volcanic deposits of other Cascade Range volcanoes. In the space of a few years after the eruption of Mount Pinatubo in 1991, the erosion of loose pyroclastic deposits covering the slopes of the mountain generated a series of volcanic lahars, which ultimately buried large parts of the countryside along major streams draining these slopes beneath several meters of volcanic sediments. The repeated deposition of sediments by volcanic lahars and by sediment-filled rivers not only created innumerable polystrate trees, but also \"polystrate\" telephone-poles, churches, and houses, over a period a few years. The volcanic deposits enclosing modern upright trees are often virtually identical in their sedimentary structures, external and internal layering, texture, buried soils, and other general character to the volcanic deposits containing the Yellowstone buried forests. As in case of modern forests buried by lahars, the individual buried forests of the Yellowstone Petrified Forest and the layers containing them are very limited in their areal extent.\n\nWithin excavations for Interstate Highway 10 in the United States of America, and in borrow pits, in landfills, and archaeological surveys, unfossilized upright trees have been found buried within late Holocene, even historic, fluvial and deltaic sediments underlying the surface of the Mississippi River Delta and the Atchafalaya Basin of Louisiana. In one case, borrow pits dug in the natural levees of Bayou Teche near Patterson, Louisiana, have exposed completely buried, 4 to 6 feet (1.2 to 1.8 meters) high, upright trunks of cypress trees. Northeast of Donaldsonville, Louisiana, a borrow pit excavated for fill used to maintain nearby artificial levees, exposed three levels of rooted upright tree trunks stacked on top of each other lying completely buried beneath the surface of Point Houmas, a patch of floodplain lying within a meander loop of the current course of the Mississippi River. While searching for buried archaeological sites, archaeologists excavated a 12 ft (3.6 meter) high upright rooted cypress tree completely buried within a natural levee of the Atchafalaya River within the Indian Bayou Wildlife Management Area just south of Krotz Springs, Louisiana. Radiocarbon dates and historic documents collected for this archaeological survey, during which this and other upright trees were found, of the Indian Bayou Wildlife Management Area demonstrated that these upright trees were buried in the 1800s, during the initial diversion of Mississippi River's flow into the Atchafalaya River.\n\nUnfossilized, late Pleistocene upright trees have been found buried beneath glacial deposits within North America along the southern edge of the Laurentide ice sheet. These buried forests were created when the southern edge of the Laurentide ice sheet locally dammed valleys. As a result, meltwater lakes filled these valleys and submerged forests within them. Sediments released by the melting of the adjacent ice sheet rapidly filled these lakes, which quickly buried and preserved the submerged forests lying within them. One forest of \"in situ\", 24,000-year-old unfossilized upright trees was exposed by excavations for a quarry near Charleston, Illinois. Excavations for a tailings pond about Marquette, Michigan, exposed an \"in situ\" forest of unfossilized trees, which are about 10,000 years old, buried in glacial lake and stream sediments.\n\n"}
{"id": "24401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24401", "title": "Psychology of torture", "text": "Psychology of torture\n\nTorture is the use of physical or psychological pain to control the victim or fulfill some needs of the perpetrator. The psychology of torture refers to the psychological processes underlying all aspects of torture including the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim, the immediate and long-term effects, and the political and social institutions that influence its use.\n\nResearch during the past 60 years, starting with the Milgram experiment, suggests that under the right circumstances, and with the appropriate encouragement and setting, most people can be encouraged to actively torture others.\n\nJohn Conroy:\"When torture takes place, people believe they are on the high moral ground, that the nation is under threat and they are the front line protecting the nation, and people will be grateful for what they are doing.\"\n\nStages of the perpetrator's torture mentality include:\n\n\nExample:\nOne of the apparent ringleaders of the Abu Ghraib prison torture, Charles Graner Jr., exemplified the stages of dehumanization and disinhibition when he was reported to have said, \"The Christian in me says it's wrong, but the corrections officer in me says, 'I love to make a grown man piss himself.'\"\n\nAs P. Saliya Sumanatilake concludes:\n\n\"Whether it be for securing a justifiable or reprehensible end, torture cannot be effectuated without invoking and focusing one's diffused innate cruelty. Accordingly, it is the prevalence of this congenital trait of heinousness that renders every human being a potential torturer: hence, the existence of torture! Moreover, it is the natural occurrence of such nascent evil within each successive generation of human beings that serves to propagate torture!\"\n\nThe effects of torture on the victim and the perpetrator are likely to be influenced by many factors. Therefore, it is unlikely that providing diagnostic categories of symptoms and behavior will be applicable across countries with very different personal, political or religious beliefs and perspectives. There is always a question about applying diagnostic categories and descriptions of symptoms or behavior developed in Western societies to people from the developing countries with very different personal, political, or religious beliefs and perspectives. One of the most marked cultural differences may occur between individualist societies where realization of personal goals often takes priority over the needs of kin and societal expectations, and collectivist societies in which the needs of family and prescribed roles take precedence over personal preferences. Another evident difference is the belief in a subsequent life in which suffering in this life is rewarded, and this has emerged in some studies of torture survivors in South East Asia.\n\nTorture has profound and long-lasting physical and psychological effects. Torture is a form of collective suffering that is not limited to the victim. The victims' family members and friends are often also affected due to adjustment problems such as outbreaks of anger and violence directed towards family members. According to research, psychological and physical torture have similar mental effects. Often torture victims suffer from elevated rates of the following:\n\nNo diagnostic terminology encapsulates the deep distrust of others which many torture survivors have developed, nor the destruction of all that gave their lives meaning. Guilt and shame about humiliation during torture, and about the survivor's inability to withstand it, as well as guilt at surviving, are common problems which discourage disclosure. Additional stress may be added due to uncertainty about the future, any possibility of being sent back to the country in which the survivor was tortured, and the potential lack of close confidants or social support systems. In addition, the presence of social isolation, poverty, unemployment, institutional accommodation, and pain can all predict higher levels of emotional distress in victims who survive torture.\n\nThe development of the diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) for American veterans of the Vietnam War can be understood as a political act which labeled the collective distress of a defeated USA as individual psychopathology. Proponents of this view, point to the de-politicization of the distress of torture survivors by describing their distress, disturbance, and profound sense of injustice in psychiatric terms. These are not only conceptual issues, because they may influence treatment outcomes. Recovery is associated with reconstruction of social and cultural networks, economic supports, and respect for human rights.\n\nThe rich research on treatment of PTSDs in veterans has substantially informed treatment offered to torture survivors. It is more appropriate than extrapolation from work with civilian survivors of single events as individuals (assault, accidents) or as communities or groups (natural or man-made disasters). Some literature distinguishes between single-event trauma (type 1) and prolonged and repeated trauma, such as torture (type 2). There is no doubt that (disregarding concerns about the diagnosis) rates of PTSD are much higher in refugees than among people of a similar age in the countries where the refugees settle, and that, among refugees, rates of PTSD are even higher among those seeking asylum.\n\nThe argument that torture causes unique problems waxes and wanes, and is often associated with claims to particular expertise in treatment, and therefore claims on funding. Gurr et al. describe how torture targets the person as a whole – physically, emotionally, and socially – so that PTSD is an inadequate description of the magnitude and complexity of the effects of torture. When the diagnosis of PTSD is applied, some survivors of torture who have very severe symptoms related to trauma may still not reach the criteria for diagnosis. Categories such as 'complex trauma' have been proposed, and it may be that the next iterations of the diagnostic compendia may modify the criteria\n\nMany people who engage in torture have various psychological deviations and often they derive sadistic satisfaction. Torture may fulfill the emotional needs of perpetrators when they willingly engage in these activities. They lack empathy and their victims' agonized painful reactions, screaming and pleading give them a sense of authority and feelings of superiority.\n\nTorture can harm not only the victim but the perpetrators as well. After the fact, perpetrators will often experience failing mental health, PTSD, suicidal tendencies, substance dependency and a myriad of other mental defects associated with inducing physical or mental trauma upon their victims.\n\nThe perpetrators may experience flashbacks of torture, intense rage, suicidal and homicidal ideas, alienation, impulse deregulation, alterations in attention and consciousness, alterations in self-perception, alterations in relationships with others, inability to trust and inability to maintain long-term relationships, or even mere intimacy.\n\nFor physicians, it is useful to recognize that symptoms of post-traumatic stress can complicate presentation and treatment. Pain predicts greater severity of both PTSD symptoms and major depression, and intrusive memories and flashbacks can exacerbate existing pain. While under-recognition and under-treatment of torture victims is common, there are useful guidelines for evidence-based medical practice, although not specifically concerned with pain, and for evidence-based psychological practice.\n\nSome people die during torture; many survivors are too disabled and destitute to find their way to safety. A large element of chance, and, to a lesser extent, resources and resilience, enable a minority to arrive in developed countries. Nevertheless, they often present multiple and complex problems, which the clinician can find overwhelming. For all these reasons, an interdisciplinary approach to assessment and treatment is therefore recommended, guarding against either disregarding significant psychological distress as inevitable in torture survivors or discounting physical symptoms by attributing them to psychological origin.\n\nRehabilitation and reparation are part of the rights of the torture survivor under the United Nations Convention, yet far less attention is paid to health needs on a national or international basis than to legal and civil claims. Collaborative efforts involving survivors themselves are needed to better understand the usefulness and limitations of existing assessment instruments and treatment methods. Some studies exist, such as that by Elsass et al. who interviewed Tibetan Lamas on the quantification of suffering in scales used to evaluate intervention with Tibetan torture survivors.\nEducation of medical and other healthcare personnel needs to address issues concerning treatment of torture survivors, who will be seen in all possible settings but not necessarily recognized or treated adequately. Teaching on ethics is also important, since medical students can have tolerant views of torture, and the complicity of medical and healthcare staff in torture continues in many countries. Medical staff are often in a key position to try to prevent torture and to help those who have survived.\n\nIn addition to providing treatment for victims of torture, psychologists have the skills and knowledge to conduct research regarding interrogation methods and determine when the methods used become torture. The standards, policies, and procedures of each country's professional psychological association may influence the participation of psychologists in administering torture, researching torture methods, and evaluating the effectiveness of the results. Kenneth Pope (2011) used direct quotes to indicate the American Psychological Association believes psychologists have a key role in eliciting information from people since interrogations require an understanding of psychological processes. Each professional association sets the standards for ethics and expected professional behavior which may influence psychologist researchers who investigate interrogation or torture and clinical psychologists' participation in interrogations that use methods deemed to be consistent with torture.\n\nFor an example of policy that influences the use of torture by American psychologists, please see the American Psychological Association Council of Representatives policy released in 2015. For an example of an external review of whether psychologists adhered to the APA ethics and policy please see the Hoffman Report (2015).\n\nDue to differences in political power globally, professional psychological organizations in well-developed countries may have a greater influence on discovering and defining what constitutes torture. Psychological associations in less developed countries may choose to adopt the definitions, standards, and ethical positions regarding torture developed by the APA when they are unable to support research regarding torture themselves within their own culture. The professional associations in well developed countries, such as the APA are likely to have a strong influence in defining the psychology of torture globally.\n\nPeople within an organization may be influenced to participate in torturing people. The culture and procedures of an organization provide the foundation to allow professionals, such as physicians, to violate the medical code of ethics in a manner that appears to align and meet the necessary standards of their employment. Annas and Crosby (2015) reported that lawyers provided advanced confirmation that physicians who participated in the enhanced interrogation techniques used at CIA sites would be given immunity for their actions since they were deemed a necessary requirement to protect the country (see also; Milgram experiment ) . \n\nThe physicians assisted by providing medical evaluations to ensure victims were healthy enough to undergo torture, developed methods of torture, ensured victims would survive the torture, and assisted victims to heal following torture procedures. Working in a secret facility with policies and procedures that promoted an expectation that torture and enhanced interrogation practices were required to protect the nation and would not result in negative personal consequences resulted in a setting in which physicians were willing to ignore the Hippocratic oath.\n\nThe policies and procedures within the United States military have also been found to produce an environment in which torture and enhanced interrogation techniques were used. Although the military has an excellent process for recruiting and training interrogators who use non abusive techniques successfully, changes in funding resulted in fewer highly trained interrogators being available. As more interrogators were recruited after 9/11, they were not as rigorously assessed, trained, or mentored and did not demonstrate the same abilities as the previous generation of military interrogators. In addition, the military rank of interrogators is not sufficient to control the decisions made when interrogation is needed. Military interrogators may be ordered to perform techniques they know to be inappropriate and ineffective by higher ranking officers who have not been adequately educated about effective interrogation procedures. The combination of a change in recruitment, reduced education and mentorship, and relatively low rank result in opportunities for torture and abuse to be used during interrogations.\n\nFictional stories, movies, and television shows may influence the beliefs people have regarding the efficacy of torture as a means for rapidly obtaining life-saving information. People who believe torture is an effective interrogation method are more supportive of using torture and enhanced interrogation techniques than those who do not think it provides accurate information. In addition, the information obtained through torture is also perceived as more valuable by people who support using torture than the same information obtained through non-abusive means of interrogation. These findings suggest confirmation bias (perception is skewed toward what a person already believes) influences the support for torture and is influenced by many commercially available sources of fictional examples.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45603444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45603444", "title": "Sissel Tolaas", "text": "Sissel Tolaas\n\nSissel Tolaas is an artist and researcher known for her work with smells.\n\nSissel Tolaas was born in 1963 in Stavanger, Norway and is based in Berlin. Tolaas has a background in chemistry; mathematics, linguistics; languages and art; she studied at the universities of Oslo, Warsaw, Moscow, St. Petersburg and Oxford. \n\nTolaas is working actively on diverse aspects of the topic of scents. She began to concentrate on this in 1990, researching its importance in different sciences, fields of art /design and other disciplines. At that time she developed a \"smell archive\" in over 7000 airtight jars.In January 2004 Tolaas established the SMELL RE_searchLab Berlin, for smell & communication / language, supported by IFF International Flavours and Fragrances. Her research has won recognition through numerous national and international scholarships, honours, and prizes including the 2014 CEW, New York award for chemistry & innovation; 2009 Rouse Foundation Award from Harvard University GSD; an Honorary Mention at the 2010 ArsElectronica in Linz, Austria; and the 2010-2011-2012-2014 Synthetic Biology / Synthetic Aesthetics Award from Stanford and Edinburgh Universities including a residency at Harvard Medical School. Tolaas founded the Institute of Functional Smells in 2010 (i.e. health, education, well-being) and in 2016 became a founding member of FUTURE OF EDUCATION, a collaboration with the Nanyang Technical University Singapore and The Future Education Platform, Berlin.\n\nShe has worked and is working with numerous companies and institutions; she participates actively in international colloquiums, conferences and networking. Her projects and research have been presented in institutions such as TED Global, US; Interactive Africa/Design Indaba, South Africa; What Design Can Do, Holland and Brazil; World Science Festival, New York; World Congress of Synthetic Biology, Stanford University; Documenta 13, Kassel Germany; MOMA New York; MOMA San Francisco; Fondation Cartier, Paris; Serpentine Gallery, London; Hamburger Bahnhof, Berlin; Tate Gallery, Liverpool; Venice Biennale; Kochi Biennale; Liverpool Biennale; Sao Paulo Biennale; National Art Museum of China Beijing; Cooper-Hewitt Museum, New York , Minsheng Art Museum, Shanghai; Art Institute of Chicago; Architecture Biennale 2015, Shanghai; Time Museum Guangzhou, Edinburgh International Fashion Festival 2012, Louisiana Museum, Denmark. \n\nShe has had engagements with many universities around the world. These include MIT; Harvard University; Liverpool University; Oslo University; Moscow State University; Stanford University; TU, Berlin; Toronto University; Lund University; Edinburgh University; Bangkok University; Hong Kong University; University of Michigan; Pasadena Art Centre; Cape Town University; Koc University Istanbul; Brown University; RCA, London; Aalto University, Helsinki; Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Montreal University; Princeton University; Yale University; Humboldt University, Berlin; Tsinghua University, Beijing; Columbia University, New York; Parsons The New School For Design, New York; Aalto University, Helsinki; Vienna University; Oxford University; Montreal University; Princeton University; Yale University; Strelka Institute, Moscow; Polytechnic University, Moscow; London School of Economics; Design Academy Eindhoven, Netherlands.\n\nThe institutes with which Tolaas has worked include Fraunhofer Science Institute, Germany; Grenoble INP, France; Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel; Copernicus Science Gallery, Warsaw; Charité Humboldt University Hospital, Berlin; Max Planck Institute, Berlin; San Francisco Neurosciences Institute; Hexagram Science Centre, Quebec; Institute for the Future, Palo Alto USA; Sandberg Institute, Amsterdam, Chronus Art Center, Shanghai;\n\nClients in government agencies and business have included Science NASA; ESA; IEEE Aerospace Research; BBC London; Sony Computer Science Lab, Paris; IFF Inc. New York; Statoil New Energy Program, Norway; Louis Vuitton, Paris; E. Lauder Paris/NY; KPMG (law) Berlin; BMG SONY, Germany; ShowStudio/Nick Knight; Mercedes Benz Future Lab, Berlin; ADIDAS; New York; Johnson & Johnson, New York; Bangalore High Tech Park; Deutsche Bank, Germany; Beijing Olympics; NESTA, London.\n\nTolaas has completed 52 City SmellScape research projects since 1998, of, for and with major cities all over the world such as Paris, Stockholm, Kansas City, Kansas, & Kansas City, Missouri, Berlin, Oslo, London, Cape Town, Kochi, Istanbul, Shanghai, Singapore, Tokyo, Amman, New York Central Park and Seoul. \n\nIn 2018 Tolaas is working on an archive of the world's oceans and a project on the morbidity and decay of Detroit. Since 2014 Tolaas has been active in several start-ups in the field of the senses. In 2016 Tolaas launched the world's first Smell Memory Kit; several other devices and sense tools are in the pipeline.\n\nThe Re_Search Lab continues to support interdisciplinary projects and research involving smell, odor, and fragrance. It establishes communication among experts in different fields dealing with olfaction\n\nHer project \"SWEAT FEAR | FEAR SWEAT\" from 2005 examines the body odors of twenty men, all of whom have a severe phobia of other bodies. Their smells were collected and chemically reproduced. The simulated sweat molecules were painted onto the gallery walls using a micro-encapsulation process, where they became activated by touch.\n\nFrom her artist's statement about the installation \"the FEAR of smell — the smell of FEAR\" at the 2005 Tirana Biennale, Tolaas explains: \"In the modern West, we tend to think of smell in purely aesthetic terms, pleasant or unpleasant. In many other cultures however, smells have provided and still provide a basic means of defining the and interacting with the world. This is particularly the case in so far as odours are closely associated with personal and group identity. The study of the history, anthropology, and sociology of smells is, in a very real sense, an investigation into the ‘essence’ of human culture itself.\"\n\nSome of the topics of concern in Tolaas’s work are:\n\n\nApplications for and projects on:\n\n"}
{"id": "3732830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732830", "title": "Suicide (book)", "text": "Suicide (book)\n\nSuicide () is an 1897 book written by French sociologist Émile Durkheim. It was the first methodological study of a social fact in the context of society. It is ostensibly a case study of suicide, a publication unique for its time that provided an example of what the sociological monograph should look like.\n\nAccording to Durkheim,\nIn his view, suicide comes in four kinds:\n\nThese four types of suicide are based on the degrees of imbalance of two social forces: social integration and moral regulation. Durkheim noted the effects of various crises on social aggregates – war, for example, leading to an increase in altruism, economic boom or disaster contributing to anomie.\n\nDurkheim concluded that:\n\nDurkheim stands accused of committing an ecological fallacy. Indeed, Durkheim's conclusions about individual behaviour (e.g. suicide) are based on aggregate statistics (the suicide rate among Protestants and Catholics). This type of inference, which explains micro events in terms of macro properties, is often misleading, as Simpson's paradox shows.\n\nHowever, diverging views have contested whether Durkheim's work really contained an ecological fallacy. Van Poppel and Day (1996) argue that differences in reported suicide rates between Catholics and Protestants could be explained entirely in terms of how these two groups record deaths. Protestants would record \"sudden deaths\" and \"deaths from ill-defined or unspecified cause\" as suicides, while Catholics would not. If so, then Durkheim's error was empirical, not logical. Inkeles (1959), Johnson (1965), and Gibbs (1958) claimed that Durkheim only intended to explain suicide \"sociologically,\" within a holistic perspective, emphasizing that \"he intended his theory to explain variation among social environments in the incidence of suicide, not the suicides of particular individuals\".\n\nMore recently, Berk (2006) questions the micro-macro relations underlying criticisms of Durkheim's work. He notices that\n\nDurkheim explores the differing suicide rates among Protestants and Catholics, arguing that stronger social control among Catholics results in lower suicide rates. According to Durkheim, Catholic society has normal levels of integration while Protestant society has low levels. \n\nThere are at least two problems with this interpretation. First, Durkheim took most of his data from earlier researchers, notably Adolph Wagner and Henry Morselli, who were much more careful in generalizing from their own data. Second, later researchers found that the Protestant-Catholic differences in suicide seemed to be limited to German-speaking Europe and thus may always have been the spurious reflection of other factors. Despite its limitations, Durkheim's work on suicide has influenced proponents of control theory, and is often mentioned as a classic sociological study.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849209", "title": "Syringe driver", "text": "Syringe driver\n\nA syringe driver or syringe pump is a small infusion pump (some include infuse and withdraw capability), used to gradually administer small amounts of fluid (with or without medication) to a patient or for use in chemical and biomedical research.\n\nApplications include electrospinning, electrospraying, microdialysis, microfluidics, dispensing/dilution, organ/tissue perfusion and fluid circulation.\n\nAnother use of syringe drivers is in palliative care, to continuously administer analgesics (painkillers), antiemetics (medication to suppress nausea and vomiting) and other drugs. This prevents periods during which medication levels in the blood are too high or too low, and avoids the use of multiple tablets (especially in people who have difficulty swallowing). As the medication is administered subcutaneously, the area for administration is practically limitless, although edema may interfere with the action of some drugs.\n\nSyringe drivers are also useful for delivering IV medications over several minutes. In the case of a medication which should be slowly pushed in over the course of several minutes, this device saves staff time and reduces errors.\n\nSyringe pumps are also useful in microfluidic applications, such as microreactor design and testing, and also in chemistry for slow incorporation of a fixed volume of fluid into a solution. In enzyme kinetics syringe drivers can be used to observe rapid kinetics as part of a stopped flow apparatus. They are also sometimes used as laboratory media dispensers.\n"}
{"id": "3130555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3130555", "title": "The Michael Teachings", "text": "The Michael Teachings\n\nThe Michael Teachings is a body of channeled New Age spiritual doctrine that originated in the early 1970s as a 'conversation' via a Ouija board between members of a spiritual study group in the San Francisco Bay Area and a channeled spiritual entity who became known as 'Michael'. The teachings received from the entity were first published in book form in 1979 as \"Messages from Michael,\" by novelist Chelsea Quinn Yarbro, the first in a series of four books by Yarbro chronicling the Bay Area sessions. Since that time, the teachings purportedly from the same entity have continued to accumulate and expand via a growing number of channels based in other locations.\n\nThe core belief of the Michael Teachings is Agape (unconditional love) – specifically, teaching people how to love themselves and how to love others through personality understanding methods, communication skills and other practices that encourage deeper self-awareness.\n\nThe name \"Michael\" is simply one way to name a system of personality understanding (or \"teaching\"). It has no real significance other than to make it known in some definitive way. Modern schools of philosophy and psychology represent facets of this system. Readers of Abraham Maslow, Carl Jung, Eric Erikson and Sigmund Freud, as well as others, will find a ring of familiarity here. Elements of this system were being taught in the 1920s by George Gurdjieff, P.D. Ouspensky and later Rodney Collin.\n\nFrom those early beginnings of a few friends gathered in Sarah Chambers' living room seeking answers to their own questions, there are now more than 40 books published about the body of work that came to be called the Michael Teachings. As students became teachers of the material and it moved out of the United States, many of the books about the teachings have been translated into other languages. The work of José & Lena Stevens has been translated into Finnish Shepherd Hoodwin's books have been translated into Russian, Spanish, Indonesian, Dutch and German Websites in other countries evolved to cover the material in the United Kingdom, Germany, South Africa, Brazil and Czechia.\n\nA number of academic scholars have included the Michael Teachings in their research. These include: Jon Klimo, Olav Hammer, Michael F. Brown and Mary Meeker Albert.\n\nJon Klimo, professor of psychology and parapsychology author, researched channeling and writes in the introduction to his book \"Channeling: Investigations on Receiving Information from Paranormal Sources\", \"I intended for this book to be a balanced and objective treatment of the phenomenon of channeling so that you the reader can make your own judgements.\" He goes on to say \"Although, as we shall see, channeling has been around since the beginning of recorded history, it is enjoying a remarkable resurgence today.\"\n\nProfessor Klimo stated that the \"Messages from Michael\" book series helped to make Michael-channeling into one of the best-known examples of channeling during the 1970s and early 1980s, and noted similarities in the events of the initial Michael channeling sessions to those that led to the Seth Material. Klimo reported that more than a dozen people in the San Francisco Bay Area claimed to channel the same \"Michael\", using a variety of methods, ranging from automatic writing to speaking while in a trance.\n\nOlav Hammer, an expert on new religious movements, describes the \"Michael Teachings\" as a \"fairly well-structured set of doctrines, expressed in a distinct vocabulary\". According to Hammer, Michael is described by believers as a \"group soul, a collective consciousness of 1050 essences\". Hammer states that the channelers of Michael study the earlier \"transmissions\" and use similar terminology, making it easier for readers to accept the new material as part of a doctrines. Dr. Hammer has a degree in Computer Science and a Ph.D. from Lund University (Sweden) in History of Religions.\n\nMichael Brown didn't set out to study channeling. An anthropology and Latin American studies professor at Williams College, he was living in Santa Fe temporarily and working on a book about a Peruvian guerrilla movement when he became interested in some drumming from his next door neighbors. Assuming that was an American Indian ceremony, he wanted to learn more. Eventually, he spent five years of research where he tried to make sense of channeling \"in an anthropological sense.\" That research eventually became his book, \"The Channeling Zone\". Brown said the experiences he underwent in his research didn't change his own beliefs. In 2014, Brown was named president of the School for Advanced Research, after shifting into emeritus status as Lambert Professor of Anthropology and Latin American studies at Williams College in Williamstown, Massachusetts.\n\nNancy Piatkowski, writing in the \"Journal of American Folklore\", reviewed the book \"The Channeling Zone: American Spirituality in an Anxious Age\" by Michael F. Brown. Nancy writes that \"He uses as prime examples The Seth Material and Michael Teachings, which have been copyrighted and published.\" ... \"In \"The Channeling Zone\", Michael Brown has provided us with a lively, easy to read, yet scholarly look into a spiritual movement whose critics see it as Satanic and evil but whose followers are among the best-educated people in the country. Those who seek the guidance of channels are those who have found dissatisfaction with organized religion yet feel the need for the spiritual in a complex and changing society.\" Nancy Piatkowski was the Archivist of the Episcopal Diocese of Western New York and Archive Coordinator of the Department of Anthropology, Buffalo State College.\n\nMary Meeker Alber, in her Ph.D. dissertation, compared several different methods of conscious development that included: Sri Aurobinda's Integral Yoga, Tibetan Buddhism and Reincarnation, as well as Essence and Personality Systems, which include: the Fourth Way system (George Gurdjieff), The Arica School founded by Óscar Ichazo, The Michael system teachings and Personnessence™.\n\nDr. Alber commented on the similarities of the various Essence and Personality systems: \"When I asked him [Dr. Jose Stevens] why the Michael teachings and Personessence™ were so strikingly similar to Fourth Way and Arica programs even though the founders claim to be uninformed by the other, he explained that their commonality reflects the underlying truths about consciousness and its development..\" (p 166) ... \"To test the appeal of the Michael system approach to self-understanding in my community, I developed and taught a workshop at a regional conference that I entitled \"The Keys to Self-Mastery\" in which I gave the revised I-MAP introductory presentation to a group of twenty individuals. I also invited José Stevens to conduct an introductory weekend workshop to a group of ten individuals in my community. From these experiences, I have direct awareness of the important insights that this system offers to individuals beyond the integral paradigm originally embodied by the IMAP. Years after these events, participants have expressed an enduring appreciation for the insights they gained about themselves and others, and ask when and how I intend to continue the work.\" (pp 373–374). She goes on to compare - in great detail - the Michael Teachings to aspects of the various systems that she reviewed. Dr. Alber is a graduate of Dartmouth College, B.A., Engineering Sciences and Economics, Wharton School of Business, MBA; MA, Anthropology, Human and Organizational Change; PhD Transformative Learning and Change. She is a Co-founder and Board President of Education Innovation Collaborative in Nevada.\n\nSally Jo \"Sarah\" (McCord) Chambers (1937-1998) was an American teacher who wrote the body of work now known as the Michael Teachings.\n\nSarah Chambers was born Sally Jo McCord on November 30, 1937, in Cincinnati, Ohio to Elmer Ernest McCord and Dorothy Lee Clark. She died in Santa Fe, New Mexico, on December 8, 1998. As a teenager, Sarah lived in Michigan, then later lived for a time in Orange County, CA. In 1961, she married her first husband, Walter James Polhemus, in Kansas; they divorced in Solano County, California in 1968.\n\nIn 1972, Sarah married Richard \"Dick\" Chambers in Oakland, CA. Together, they were involved in early groups studying the self-understanding work of George Ivanovich Gurdjieff in Oakland, California. After leaving those Gurdjieff groups, they started hosting meetings of friends at their home in Oakland, California Starting in August 1973 and using a Ouija board, Sarah Chambers \"brought through\" information about personality and how to get along better in the world in answer to questions that members of the group asked.\n\nStarting in the early 1970s, Sarah had been meeting in a small study group along with Alice Hannah, their husbands (both named Richard) and other close friends who were interested in more advanced spiritual study. Friends invited friends to the groups. Some stayed for a time and many others just passed through. Over the years the group existed, the core of what has become known today as \"the Michael Teachings\" was revealed. Alice Hannah, \"secretary\" for the original Michael study group in the early 1970s, kept the group's records and created transcripts of their sessions. The information they brought forth provides the foundation of the body of knowledge, which has now expanded as more teachers are trained and students develop more advanced skills. As advanced students progress in their awareness and needs, new levels of information are being revealed that deepen and broaden the original work.\n\nOne concern of the early group was how they would be perceived by others as many of them were professionals, doctors, lawyers, teachers, scientists, psychologists, community leaders and business people. Channeling and spiritual subjects at the time were not considered \"mainstream\" activities. In 1995, Sarah answered some questions about why the groups stopped. She said \"Our meetings in the beginning — and I'm sure Alice & Dick feel this way too — were fun and they were like big family gatherings. Quite often, there were 18-20 people staying here at the house on the weekends for mega-sessions. No money ever changed hands, since Michael always said the teaching would pay for itself. Then, in 1976, the atmosphere changed ... I just lost interest, that's all and went on to other things. I miss the camaraderie very much. There was a tightness in the group that made it stick together. We came to the meetings, whether they were here or at Alice & Dick's, with potluck dishes and stayed until early in the morning. Those sessions went on for many hours with breaks for dinner and, sometimes, breakfast.\" \n\nAround that same time, Sarah took a full-time job and her interests changed to other things. During this time, she encountered Chelsea Quinn Yarbro, a fiction writer who had heard about Sarah's groups. Some of the early transcripts of the groups were used in Yarbro's books \"Messages from Michael\" and \"More Messages from Michael.\". Yarbro's book \"Michael's People\" describes the fictionalized people involved in the early study groups.\n\nPublic Domain transcripts of Sarah's early groups have been published by the non-profit Center for Michael Teachings in three volumes in a series called \"The Legacy of Sarah Chambers.\"\n\nAfter Sarah stopped hosting the large public groups, a student of hers, Leslie Briggs, hosted her own groups, starting in 1974 and continuing until 1983. Transcribed sessions from Leslie that have survived have been published by the Center for Michael Teachings.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, Sarah came back to channeling and the Michael Teachings. In 1996, she attended a conference of 16 Michael channels in Colorado. She stayed involved and allowed her name to be used publicly until her death in 1998 at age 61.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "734814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=734814", "title": "Thomas Urquhart", "text": "Thomas Urquhart\n\nSir Thomas Urquhart (* 1611; † 1660) was a Scottish aristocrat, writer, and translator. He is best known for his translation of the works of French Renaissance writer François Rabelais to English.\n\nUrquhart was born to an old landholding family in Cromarty in northern Scotland. At the age of eleven he attended King's College, University of Aberdeen. Afterwards he toured the Continent, returning in 1636. In 1639, he participated in the Royalist uprising known as the Trot of Turriff; he was knighted by Charles I at Whitehall for his support. In 1641 he published his first book, a volume of epigrams.\n\nUrquhart's father died in 1642, leaving behind a large estate encumbered by larger debts. As the eldest son, Urquhart was from that time on harassed by creditors. He left for the Continent in order to economize, but returned in 1645 and published \"Trissotetras\", a mathematical treatise.\n\nIn 1648, Urquhart participated in the Royalist uprising at Inverness. He was declared a traitor by Parliament, though he doesn't seem to have suffered any other consequences. Two years later he marched with Charles II and fought in the Battle of Worcester. The Royalist forces were decisively defeated and Urquhart was taken prisoner. He lost all his manuscripts, which he had brought with him for safekeeping, and he had to forfeit all his property. He was held first at the Tower of London and later at Windsor, but he was given considerable freedom by his captors. The following year he published \"Pantochronachanon\", a work of genealogy, and \"The Jewel\", a defense of Scotland. In 1652, he was paroled by Cromwell and returned to Cromarty. Soon after he published \"Logopandecteision\", his plan for a universal language, and his most celebrated work, his translation of Rabelais.\n\nUrquhart returned to the Continent some time after 1653, perhaps as a condition of his release by Cromwell. \nLittle is known of his life after this time. He died no later than 1660, because in that year his younger brother took up his hereditary titles. \nThere is a legend that Urquhart died in a fit of laughter on receiving news of the Restoration of Charles II.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUrquhart's prose style is unique. His sentences are long and elaborate and his love of the odd and recondite word seems boundless . At its worst his style can descend into almost unintelligible pretension and pedantry (\"a pedantry which is gigantesque and almost incredible\", in the words of George Saintsbury), but at its best it can be rich, rapid and vivid, with arresting and original imagery. He coined words constantly, although none of Urquhart's coinages have fared as well as those of his contemporary Browne.\n\nUrquhart appears as the protagonist of Alasdair Gray's short story \"Sir Thomas's Logopandocy\" (included in \"Unlikely Stories, Mostly\"), the title taken from Urquhart's \"Logopandecteision\" and some of the material pastiching \"The Jewel (Ekskybalauron)\". Urquhart appears in the illustrations throughout \"Unlikely Stories\".\n\nUrquhart appears as a major character in the novel \"A Hand-book of Volapük\" by Andrew Drummond. Urquhart's language proposal \"The Jewel\" as well as Volapük, Esperanto, and other constructed languages are prominent plot devices in the novel.\n\nOne of the characters in Robertson Davies' Cornish Trilogy claims to be a descendant of Urquhart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1591026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591026", "title": "Togo (dog)", "text": "Togo (dog)\n\nTogo (October 17, 1913 – December 5, 1929) was the lead sled dog of Leonhard Seppala and his dog sled team in the 1925 serum run to Nome across central and northern Alaska.\n\nTogo was one of the offspring of Seppala's former lead dog, \"Suggen\". He was named after the Japanese admiral Tōgō Heihachirō. Initially, he did not\nlook like he had potential as a sled dog. He only grew to about 48 pounds (22 kg) in adulthood, which was small compared to typical sled dogs, and had a black, brown, and gray coat that made him appear perpetually dirty.\n\nTogo was ill as a young puppy and required intensive nursing from Seppala's wife. He was very \nbold and rowdy, thus seen as \"difficult and mischievous\", showing \"all the signs of becoming a ... canine delinquent\" according to one reporter. At first, this behaviour was interpreted as evidence that he had been spoiled by the individual attention given to him during his illness. As he did not seem suited to be a sled dog, Seppala gave him away to be a pet dog at 6 months of age.\n\nAfter only a few weeks as a house pet, Togo jumped through the glass of a closed window and ran several miles back to his original master's kennel. This devotion to the team impressed Seppala, so he did not try to give him away again. However, Togo continued to cause trouble by breaking out of the kennel when Seppala took the team out on runs. He would attack the lead dogs of oncoming teams, \"as if ... to clear the way for his master\". However, one day, he attacked a much stockier malamute leader and was mauled and severely injured. When he recovered, Togo stopped attacking other teams' lead dogs. This would eventually prove a valuable early experience, as it was difficult to teach a lead dog to keep a wide berth of oncoming teams.\n\nWhen Togo was 8 months old, he proved his worth as a sled dog. He had run after the team yet again and slept, unnoticed, near the cabin where Seppala was spending the night. The next day, Seppala spotted him far off in the distance, and understood why his dogs had been so keyed up. Togo continued to make Seppala's work difficult, trying to play with the work dogs and leading them in \"charges against reindeer\", pulling them off the trail. Seppala had no choice but to put him in a harness to control him, and was surprised that Togo instantly settled down. As the run wore on, Seppala kept moving Togo up the line until, at the end of the day, he was sharing the lead position with the lead dog (named \"Russky\"). Togo had logged 75 miles on his first day in harness, which was unheard of for an inexperienced young sled dog, especially a puppy. Seppala called him an \"infant prodigy\", and later added that \"I had found a natural-born leader, something I had tried for years to breed\"\n\nTogo began training, and after a few years filled the lead dog position. He became one of Seppala's most treasured dogs, a close and mutually beneficial relationship that would continue to the end of Togo's life. At the time of the historic Serum Run, he was 12 years old and had been a lead dog for 7 years. \n\nAccording to the historian Earl Aversano, in 1960, in his old age, Seppala recalled \"I never had a better dog than Togo. His stamina, loyalty and intelligence could not be improved upon. Togo was the best dog that ever traveled the Alaska trail.\"\n\nThe first batch of 300,240 units of serum was delivered by train from Anchorage to Nenana, Alaska, where it was picked up by the first of twenty mushers and more than 100 dogs who relayed the serum a total of 674 miles (1,085 km) to Nome.\n\nTogo and Seppala traveled 170 miles (274 km) from Nome in three days, and picked up the serum in Shaktoolik on January 31. The temperature was estimated at −30 °F (−34 °C), and the gale force winds causing a wind chill of −85 °F (−65 °C).\n\nThe return trip crossed the exposed open ice of the Norton Sound. The night and a ground blizzard prevented Seppala from being able to see the path but Togo navigated to the roadhouse at Isaac's Point on the shore by 8 preventing certain death to his team. After traveling 84 miles (134 km) in one day, the team slept for six hours before continuing at 2 AM.\n\nBefore the night the temperature dropped to −40 °F (−40 °C), and the wind increased to 65 mi/h (105 km/h). The team ran across the ice, which was breaking up, while following the shoreline. They returned to shore to cross Little McKinley Mountain, climbing 5,000 feet (1,500 m). After descending to the next roadhouse in Golovin, Seppala passed the serum to Charlie Olsen, who in turn would pass it to Gunnar Kaasen and Balto.\n\nKaty Steinmetz in Time Magazine wrote that “the dog that often gets credit for eventually saving the town is Balto, but he just happened to run the last, 55-mile leg in the race. The sled dog who did the lion's share of the work was Togo. His journey, fraught with white-out storms, was the longest by 200 miles and included a traverse across perilous Norton Sound — where he saved his team and driver in a courageous swim through ice floes.”\n\nAfter the successful serum run, the hero dog Balto became the most famous canine of the run. Many mushers today consider Balto to be the back up dog, as Seppala's team led by Togo covered the longest and most hazardous leg. They made a round trip of 365 miles.\n\nImmediately after the relay, Togo and another dog on the team escaped to chase after reindeer, eventually returning to their kennel in Little Creek. Seppala was dismayed that the champion was neglected by the press, commenting \"it was almost more than I could bear when the newspaper dog Balto received a statue for his 'glorious achievements'\".\n\nIn October 1926, Seppala, Togo, and a team of dogs went on a tour from Seattle, Washington to California; Seppala and Togo drew large crowds at stadiums and department stores, and even appeared in a Lucky Strike cigarette campaign. In New York City, Seppala drove his team from the steps of City Hall along Fifth Avenue and made a pass through Central Park. The team appeared multiple times at Madison Square Garden, which was being managed by Tom Rickard, formerly of Nome, and where Togo was awarded a gold medal by Roald Amundsen.\n\nIn New England, they competed in several dog sled races against local Chinooks and won by huge margins. Seppala sold most of his team to a local kennel.\n\nTogo retired in Poland Spring, Maine, where he was euthanized on December 5, 1929 at 16 years old. The headline in \"The New York Sun Times\" the next day was \"Dog Hero Rides to His Death\" (Salisbury & Salisbury, 2003), and he was eulogized in many other papers. After his death, Seppala had him custom mounted. The mounted skin was on display at the Shelburne Museum in Shelburne Vermont. Alaskan students started a letter campaign to return Togo to Alaska. Today the mounted skin is on display in a glass case at the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race Headquarters museum in Wasilla, Alaska. The Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale University has his skeleton in their collection.\n\nTogo's reputation earned him enduring fame. The popular fictional teen sleuth Nancy Drew named a stray terrier after him in the 1937 novel \"The Whispering Statue\". The dog appears in most of the Nancy Drew novels.\n\nA film adaptation about Togo's efforts is being produced by Disney for their streaming service. Willem Dafoe will star in the film as Leonhard Seppala, the owner of Togo. Principal production on the film will occur from September 24, 2018 to February 2019 in Calgary.\n\n"}
{"id": "288490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288490", "title": "Tom Thomson", "text": "Tom Thomson\n\nThomas John Thomson (August 5, 1877July 8, 1917) was a Canadian artist active in the early 20th century. During his short career he produced roughly 400 oil sketchs on small wood panels along with around 50 larger works on canvas. His works consist almost entirely of landscapes, depicting trees, skies, lakes, and rivers. His paintings use broad brush strokes and a liberal application of paint to capture the beauty and colour of the Ontario landscape. Thomson's accidental death at 39 by drowning came just after the founding of the Group of Seven and is seen as a tragedy for Canadian art.\n\nRaised in rural Ontario, Thomson was born into a large family of farmers and displayed no immediate artistic talent. He worked several jobs before attending a business college, eventually developing skills in penmanship and copperplate writing. At the turn of the 20th century, he was employed in Seattle and Toronto as a pen artist at several different photoengraving firms, including Grip Ltd. There he met those who eventually formed the Group of Seven, including J. E. H. MacDonald, Lawren Harris, Frederick Varley, Franklin Carmichael and Arthur Lismer. In May 1912, he visited Algonquin Park—a major public park and forest reservation in Central Ontario—for the first time. It was there that he acquired his first sketching equipment and, following MacDonald's advice, began to capture nature scenes. He became enraptured with the area and repeatedly returned, typically spending his winters in Toronto and the rest of the year in the Park. While his earliest paintings were not outstanding technically, they showed a good grasp of composition and colour handling. His later paintings vary in composition and contain vivid colours and thickly applied paint. His later work has had a great influence on Canadian art—paintings such as \"The Jack Pine\" and \"The West Wind\" have taken a prominent place in the culture of Canada and are some of the country's most iconic works.\n\nThomson developed a reputation during his lifetime as a veritable outdoorsman, talented in both fishing and canoeing, although his talents in the latter have been contested. The circumstances of his drowning on Canoe Lake in Algonquin Park, linked with his image as a master canoeist, led to unsubstantiated but persistent rumours that he had been murdered or committed suicide.\n\nAlthough he died before the formal establishment of the Group of Seven, Thomson is often considered an unofficial member. His art is typically exhibited with the rest of the Group's, nearly all of which remains in Canada—mainly at the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto, the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, the McMichael Canadian Art Collection in Kleinburg and the Tom Thomson Art Gallery in Owen Sound.\n\nThomas John \"Tom\" Thomson was born in Claremont, Ontario, the sixth of John and Margaret Thomson's ten children. He was raised in Leith, Ontario, near Owen Sound, in the municipality of Meaford. Thomson and his siblings enjoyed both drawing and painting, although he did not immediately display any major talents. He was eventually taken out of school for a year because of ill health, including a respiratory problem variously described as \"weak lungs\" or \"inflammatory rheumatism\". This gave him free time to explore the woods near his home and develop an appreciation of nature.\n\nThe family were unsuccessful as farmers; both Thomson and his father often abandoned their chores to go hiking, hunting and fishing. Thomson regularly went on walks with Dr. William Brodie (1831–1909), his grandmother's first cousin. Brodie was a well-known entomologist, ornithologist and botanist, and Thomson's sister Margaret later recounted that they collected specimens on long walks together.\n\nThomson was also enthusiastic about sports, once breaking his toe while playing football. He was an excellent swimmer and fisherman, inheriting his passion for the latter from his grandfather and father. Like most of those in his community, he regularly attended church. Some stories say that he sketched in the hymn books during services and entertained his sisters with caricatures of their neighbours. His sisters later said that they had fun \"guessing who they were\", indicating that he was not necessarily adept at capturing people's likeness.\n\nEach of Thomson's nine siblings received an inheritance from their paternal grandfather. Thomson received $2000 in 1898 but seems to have spent it quickly. A year later, he entered a machine shop apprenticeship at an iron foundry owned by William Kennedy, a close friend of his father, but left only eight months later. Also in 1899, he volunteered to fight in the Second Boer War, but was turned down because of a medical condition. He tried to enlist for the Boer War three times in all, but was denied each time.\n\nIn 1901, Thomson enrolled at Canada Business College in Chatham, Ontario. The school advertised instruction in stenography, bookkeeping, business correspondence and \"plain and ornamental penmanship\". There, he developed abilities in penmanship and copperplate—necessary skills for a clerk. After graduating at the end of 1901, he travelled briefly to Winnipeg before leaving for Seattle in January 1902, joining his older brother, George Thomson. George and cousin F. R. McLaren had established the Acme Business School in Seattle, listed as the 11th largest business school in the United States. Thomson worked briefly as an elevator operator at The Diller Hotel. By 1902, two more of his brothers, Ralph and Henry, had moved west to join the family's new school.\n\nAfter studying at the business school for six months, Thomson was hired at Maring & Ladd as a pen artist, draftsman and etcher. He mainly produced business cards, brochures and posters, as well as three-colour printing. Having previously learned calligraphy, he specialized in lettering, drawing and painting. While working at Maring & Ladd, he was known to be stubborn; his brother Fraser wrote that, instead of completing his work according to the direction provided, he would use his own design ideas, which angered his boss. Thomson may have also worked as a freelance commercial designer, but there are no extant examples of such work.\n\nHe eventually moved on to a local engraving company. Despite a good salary he left by the end of 1904. He quickly returned to Leith, possibly prompted by a rejected marriage proposal after his brief summer romance with Alice Elinor Lambert. Lambert, who never married, later became a writer; in one of her stories, she describes a young girl who refuses an artist's proposal and later regrets her decision.\n\nThomson moved to Toronto in the summer of 1905. His first job upon his return to Canada was at the photo-engraving firm Legg Brothers, earning $11 a week. He spent his free time reading poetry and going to concerts, the theatre and sporting events. In a letter to an aunt, he wrote, \"I love poetry best.\" Friends described him during this time as \"periodically erratic and sensitive, with fits of unreasonable despondency\". Apart from buying art supplies, he spent his money on expensive clothes, fine dining and tobacco. Around this time, he may have studied briefly with William Cruikshank, a British artist who taught at the Ontario College of Art. Cruikshank was likely Thomson's only art instructor.\n\nIn 1908 or 1909, Thomson joined Grip Ltd., a firm in Toronto that specialized in design and lettering work. Grip was the leading graphic-design company in the country and introduced Art Nouveau, metal engraving and the four-colour process to Canada. Albert Robson, then the art director at Grip, recalled that Thomson's early work at the firm was mostly in lettering and decorative designs for booklets and labels. He wrote that Thomson made friends slowly but eventually found similar interests to his coworkers. Several of the employees at Grip had been members of the Toronto Art Students' League, a group of newspaper artists, illustrators and commercial artists active between 1886 and 1904. The members sketched in parts of eastern Canada and published an annual calendar with illustrations depicting Canadian history and rural life.\n\nThe senior artist at Grip, J. E. H. MacDonald, encouraged his staff to paint outside in their spare time to better hone their skills. It was at Grip that many of the eventual members of the Group of Seven would meet. In December 1910, artist William Smithson Broadhead was hired, joined by Arthur Lismer in February 1911. Robson eventually hired Frederick Varley, followed by Franklin Carmichael in April 1911. Although Thomson was not himself a member, it was at the Arts and Letters Club that MacDonald introduced Thomson to Lawren Harris. The club was considered the \"centre of living culture in Toronto\", providing an informal environment for the artistic community. Every member of what would become the original Group of Seven had now met. MacDonald left Grip in November 1911 to do freelance work and spend more time painting, after the Ontario government purchased his canvas \"By the River (Early Spring)\" (1911).\n\nAlgonquin Park was established in 1893 by Oliver Mowat and the Ontario Legislature. Covering eighteen rectangular townships in Central Ontario, the Park was created to provide a space dedicated to recreation, wildlife and watershed protection, though logging operations continued to be permitted. Thomson learned of the Park from fellow artist Tom McLean. In May 1912, aged 34, he first visited the Park, venturing through the area on a canoe trip with his Grip colleague H. B. (Ben) Jackson. Together, they took the Grand Trunk Railway from Toronto to Scotia Junction, then transferred to the Ottawa, Arnprior and Parry Sound Railway, arriving at Canoe Lake Station. McLean introduced Thomson to the Park superintendent, G. W. Barlett. Thomson and Jackson later met ranger Harry (Bud) Callighen while they camped nearby on Smoke Lake.\n\nIt was also at this time that Thomson acquired his first sketching equipment. He did not yet take painting seriously. According to Jackson, Thomson did not think \"his work would ever be taken seriously; in fact, he used to chuckle over the idea\". Instead, they spent most of their time fishing, except for \"a few notes, skylines and colour effects\".\n\nDuring the same trip, Thomson read Izaak Walton's 1653 fishing guide, \"The Compleat Angler\". Primarily a fisherman's bible, the book also provided a philosophy of how to live, similar to the one described in Henry David Thoreau's 1854 book, \"Walden, or Life in the Woods\", a reflection on simple living in natural surroundings. His time in Algonquin Park gave him an ideal setting to imitate Walton's \"contemplative\" life. Ben Jackson wrote:\n\nUpon returning to Toronto, Jackson published an article about his and Thomson's experience in the Park in the \"Toronto Sunday World\", included in which were several illustrations. After this initial experience, Thomson and another colleague, William Broadhead, went on a two-month expedition, going up the Spanish River and into Mississagi Forest Reserve (today Mississagi Provincial Park). Thomson's transition from commercial art towards his own original style of painting became apparent around this time. Much of his artwork from this trip, mainly oil sketches and photographs, was lost during two canoe spills; the first was on Green Lake in a rain squall and the second in a series of rapids.\n\nIn fall 1912, Albert Robson, Grip's art director, moved to the design firm Rous & Mann. A month after returning to Toronto, Thomson followed Robson and left Grip to join Rous & Mann too. They were soon joined by Varley, Carmichael and Lismer. Robson later spoke favourably of Thomson's loyalty, calling him \"a most diligent, reliable and capable craftsman\". Robson's success in attracting great talent was well understood. Employee Leonard Rossell believed that the key to Robson's success \"was that the artists felt that he was interested in them personally and did all he could to further their progress. Those who worked there were all allowed time off to pursue their studies ... Tom Thomson, so far as I know, never took definite lessons from anyone, yet he progressed quicker than any of us. But what he did was probably of more advantage to him. He took several months off in the summer and spent them in Algonquin Park.\"\nIn October, MacDonald introduced Thomson to Dr. James MacCallum. A frequent visitor to the Ontario Society of Artists' (OSA) exhibitions, MacCallum was admitted to the Arts and Letters Club in January 1912. There, he met artists such as John William Beatty, Arthur Heming, MacDonald and Harris. MacCallum eventually persuaded Thomson to leave Rous and Mann and start a painting career. In October 1913, MacCallum introduced Thomson to A. Y. Jackson, later a founder of the Group of Seven. MacCallum recognized Thomson's and Jackson's talents and offered to cover their expenses for one year if they committed themselves to painting full time. MacCallum and Jackson both encouraged Thomson to \"take up painting seriously, [but] he showed no enthusiasm. The chances of earning a livelihood by it did not appear to him promising. He was sensitive and independent, and feared he might become an object of patronage.\" MacCallum wrote that when he first saw Thomson's sketches, he recognized their \"truthfulness, their feeling and their sympathy with the grim fascinating northland ... they made me feel that the North had gripped Thomson as it had gripped me since I was eleven when I first sailed and paddled through its silent places.\" He described Thomson's paintings as \"dark, muddy in colour, tight and not wanting in technical defects\". After Thomson's death, MacCallum helped preserve and advocate for his work.\n\nThomson accepted MacCallum's offer under the same terms offered to Jackson. He travelled around Ontario with his colleagues, especially to the wilderness of Ontario, which was to become a major source of inspiration. Regarding Algonquin Park, he wrote in a letter to MacCallum: \"The best I can do does not do the place much justice in the way of beauty.\" He ventured to rural areas near Toronto and tried to capture the surrounding nature. He may have worked as a fire ranger on the Mattagami reserve. Addison and Little suggest that he guided fishing tours, although Hill finds this unlikely since Thomson had only spent a few weeks in the Park the previous year. Thomson became as familiar with logging scenes as with nature in the Park and painted them both.\n\nWhile returning to Toronto in November 1912, Thomson stopped in Huntsville. The visit was possibly to meet with Winfred Trainor, a woman whose family owned a cottage on Canoe Lake in Algonquin Park. Trainor was later rumoured to have been engaged to Thomson with a wedding planned for the late 1917, although little is known about their relationship.\n\nThomson first exhibited with the OSA in March 1913, selling his painting \"Northern Lake\" (1912–13) to the Ontario Government for $250 (). The sale afforded him time to paint and sketch through the summer and fall of 1913.\n\nThomson often experienced self-doubt. A. Y. Jackson recalled that in the fall of 1914, Thomson threw his sketch box into the woods out of frustration, and was \"so shy he could hardly be induced to show his sketches\". Harris expressed similar sentiments, writing that Thomson \"had no opinion of his own work\", and would even throw burnt matches at his paintings. Several of the canvases he sent to exhibitions remained unsigned. If someone praised one of his sketches, he immediately gave it to them as a gift. A turning point in his career came in 1914, when the National Gallery of Canada, under the directorship of Eric Brown, began to acquire his paintings. Although the money was not enough to live on, the recognition was unheard of for an unknown artist.\n\nFor several years he shared a studio and living quarters with fellow artists, initially living in the Studio Building with Jackson in January 1914. Jackson described the Studio Building as \"a lively centre for new ideas, experiments, discussions, plans for the future and visions of an art inspired by the Canadian countryside\". It was there that Thomson, \"after much self-deprecation, finally submitted to becoming a full-time artist\". They split the rent—$22 a month—on the ground floor while construction on the rest of the building was finished. After Jackson moved out in December to go to Montreal, Carmichael took his place. Thomson and Carmichael shared a studio space through the winter. On March 3, 1914, Thomson was nominated as a member of the OSA by Lismer and T. G. Greene. He was elected on the 17th. He did not participate in any of their activities, however, beyond sending paintings for annual exhibitions. Harris described Thomson's strange working hours years later:\n\nIn late April 1914, Thomson arrived in Algonquin Park, where he was joined by Lismer on May 9. They camped on Molly's Island in Smoke Lake, travelling to Canoe, Smoke, Ragged, Crown and Wolf Lakes. He spent his spring and summer divided between Georgian Bay and Algonquin Park, visiting James MacCallum by canoe. His travels during this time have proved difficult to discern, with such a large amount of ground covered in such a short time, painting the French River, Byng Inlet, Parry Sound and Go-Home Bay from May 24 through August 10. H. A. Callighen, a park ranger, wrote in his journal that Thomson and Lismer left Algonquin Park on May 24. By May 30, Thomson was at Parry Sound and on June 1 was camped at the French River with MacCallum.\n\nArt historian Joan Murray noted that Thomson was at Go-Home Bay for the next two months, or at least until August 10 when he was seen again in Algonquin Park by Callighan. According to Wadland, if this timeline is correct, it would require \"an extraordinary canoeist ... The difficulty is augmented by the fact of stopping to sketch at intervals along the way.\" Wadland suggested that Thomson may have travelled by train at some point and by steamship thereafter. Addison and Harwood instead said that Thomson had found much of the inland \"monotonously flat\" and the rapids \"ordinary\". Wadland found this characterization unhelpful, pointing out that the rapids Thomson had faced were hardly \"ordinary\".\n\nMacCallum provided specific dates for two of Thomson's paintings—May 30 and June 1 for \"\" and \"\", respectively. These are some of the only instances of precise dating for his work. In addition, \"Cottage on a Rocky Shore\" is a depiction of MacCallum's cottage contrasted with the vast expanse of sky and water. \"\" is of a nearby island MacCallum took Thomson to visit. He continued to paint around the islands until he departed, probably because he found MacCallum's cottage too demanding socially, writing to Varley that it was \"too much like north Rosedale\".\n\nThomson continued canoeing alone until he met with A. Y. Jackson at Canoe Lake in mid-September. Though World War I had erupted that year, he and Jackson went on a canoe trip, in October meeting up with Varley and his wife Maud, as well as Lismer and his wife Esther, and daughter Marjorie. This marked the first time three Group of Seven members painted together, and the only time they worked with Thomson. In his 1958 autobiography, \"A Painter's Country\", A. Y. Jackson wrote that, \"Had it not been for the war, the Group [of Seven] would have formed several years earlier and it would have included Thomson.\"\n\nWhy Thomson did not serve in the war has been debated. Mark Robinson and Thomson's family said that he was turned down after multiple attempts to enlist, likely due to his poor health and age but also possibly because he had flat feet. Blodwen Davies wrote that Thomson's artist friends tried to convince him to not risk his life, but he decided to secretly volunteer anyway. Andrew Hunter has found this scenario to be improbable, especially given that other artist friends \"did\" volunteer for the war, such as A. Y. Jackson. Thomson's sister suggested that he was a pacifist and that \"he hated war and said simply in 1914 that he never would kill anyone but would like to help in a hospital, if accepted\". William Colgate wrote that Thomson \"brooded much upon\" the war and that \"he himself did not enlist. Rumour has it that he tried, and failed to pass the doctor. This is doubtful.\" Edward Godin, a companion, said \"We had many discussions on the war. As I remember it he did not think that Canada should be involved. He was very outspoken in his opposition to Government patronage. Especially in the Militia. I do not think that we would offer himself for service. I know up until that time he had not tried to enlist.\" There is only one verifiable example of Thomson's opinion on the war, taken from a letter he wrote to J. E. H. MacDonald in 1915:\n\nWith MacCallum's year of financial support over, Thomson's financial future became uncertain. He briefly looked into applying for a position as a park ranger, but balked after seeing that it could take months for the application to go through. Instead, he considered working in an engraving shop over the winter. He made little effort to sell his paintings, preferring to give them away, though he brought in some money from the paintings he sold. In mid-November, he donated \"In Algonquin Park\" to an exhibition organized to raise money for the Canadian Patriotic Fund. It was sold to Marion Long for $50 ().\n\nIn the spring of 1915, Thomson returned to Algonquin Park earlier than he had in any previous year and had already painted twenty-eight sketches by April 22. From April through July, he spent much of his time fishing, assisting groups on several different lakes, and sketching when he had time. In July, he was invited to send paintings to the Nova Scotia Provincial Exhibition in September. Because he was in Algonquin Park, his friends selected three works to send—two unidentified works from 1914 and the sketch \"Canadian Wildflowers\". From the end of September to mid-October, he spent his time at Mowat, a village on the north end of Canoe Lake. By November, he was at Round Lake with Tom Wattie and Dr. Robert McComb. In late November, he returned to Toronto and moved into a shack behind the Studio Building that Harris and MacCallum fixed up for him, renting it for $1 a month.\n\nIn 1915, MacCallum commissioned MacDonald, Lismer and Thomson to paint decorative panels for his cottage on Go-Home Bay. In October of that year, MacDonald went up to take dimensions. Thomson produced four panels which were probably meant to go over the windows. In April 1916, when MacDonald and Lismer went to install them, they found that MacDonald's measurements were incorrect and the panels did not fit.\n\nIn March 1916, Thomson exhibited four canvases with the OSA: \"In the Northland\" (at that time titled \"The Birches\"), \"Spring Ice\", \"Moonlight\" and \"October\" (then titled \"The Hardwoods\"), all of which were painted over the winter of 1915–16. Sir Edmund Walker and Eric Brown of the National Gallery of Canada wanted to purchase \"In the Northland\", but Montreal trustee Dr. Francis Shepherd convinced them to purchase \"Spring Ice\" instead. The reception of Thomson's paintings at this time was mixed. Margaret Fairbairn of the \"Toronto Daily Star\" wrote, \"Mr. Tom Thomson's 'The Birches' and 'The Hardwoods' show a fondness for intense yellows and orange and strong blue, altogether a fearless use of violent colour which can scarcely be called pleasing, and yet which seems an exaggeration of a truthful feeling that time will temper.\" A more favourable take came from artist Wyly Grier in \"The Christian Science Monitor\":\n\nIn 1916, Thomson left for Algonquin Park earlier than any previous year, evidenced by the large number of snow studies he produced at this time. In April or early May, MacCallum, Harris and his cousin Chester Harris joined Thomson at Cauchon Lake for a canoe trip. After MacCallum and Chester left, Harris and Thomson paddled together to Aura Lee Lake. Thomson produced many sketches which varied in composition, although they all had vivid colour and thickly-applied paint. MacCallum was present when he painted his \"Sketch for \"The Jack Pine\"\", writing that the tree fell over onto Thomson before the sketch was completed. He added that Harris thought the tree killed Thomson, \"but he sprang up and continued painting\".\n\nAt the end of May, Thomson took a job as a fire ranger stationed at Achray on Grand Lake with Ed Godin. He followed the Booth Lumber Company's log drive down the Petawawa River to the north end of the park. He found that fire ranging and painting did not mix well together, writing, \"[I] have done very little sketching this summer as the two jobs don't fit in... When we are travelling two go together, one for canoe and the other the pack. And there's no place for a sketch outfit when your fire ranging. We are not fired yet but I am hoping to get put off right away.\" He likely returned to Toronto in late October or early November.\n\nOver the following winter, encouragement from Harris, MacDonald and MacCallum saw Thomson move into the most productive portion of his career, with Thomson writing in a letter that he \"got quite a lot done\". Despite this, he did not submit any paintings to the OSA exhibition in the spring of 1917. It was during this time that he produced many of his most famous works, including \"The Jack Pine\" and \"The West Wind\". Dr. MacCallum suggested that several canvas works were unfinished, including \"Woodland Waterfall\", \"The Pointers\" and \"The Drive\". Barker Fairley similarly described \"The West Wind\" as unfinished. Charles Hill has written that there are no reasons to believe \"Woodland Waterfall\" was unfinished. Similarly, while it has sometimes been suggested that \"The Drive\" was modified after Thomson's death, a reproduction from 1918 displays no discernible differences.\n\nThomson returned to Canoe Lake at the beginning of April, arriving early enough to paint the remaining snow and the ice breaking up on the surrounding lakes. He had little money but wrote that he could manage for about a year. On April 28, 1917, he received a guide's licence. Unlike previous years, he remained at Mowat with Lieutenant Crombine and his wife, Daphne. Thomson invited Daphne Crombie to select something from his spring sketches as a gift, and she selected \"\".\n\nBesides the deep love he had come to develop for Algonquin Park, Thomson was beginning to show an eagerness to depict areas beyond the park and explore other northern subjects. In an April 1917 letter to his brother-in-law, he wrote that he was considering taking the Canadian Northern Railway west so he could paint the Canadian Rockies in July and August. A. Y. Jackson suggested Thomson would have traveled even further north, just as the other members of the Group of Seven eventually did.\n\nOn July 8, 1917, Thomson disappeared during a canoeing trip on Canoe Lake. His upturned canoe was spotted later in the afternoon, and his body was discovered in the lake eight days later. It was noted that he had a four-inch cut on his right temple and had bled from his right ear. The cause of death was officially determined to be \"accidental drowning\". The day after the body was discovered, it was interred in Mowat Cemetery near Canoe Lake. Under the direction of Thomson's older brother George, the body was exhumed two days later, and re-interred on July 21 in the family plot beside the Leith Presbyterian Church in what is now the Municipality of Meaford.\n\nIn September 1917, J. E. H. MacDonald and John William Beatty erected a memorial cairn at Hayhurst Point on Canoe Lake, to honour Thomson where he died.\n\nThere has been much speculation about the circumstances of Thomson's death, including that he was murdered or committed suicide. Though these ideas lack substance, they have continued to persist in the popular culture. Andrew Hunter has pointed to Park ranger Mark Robinson as being largely responsible for the suggestion that there was more to his death than accidental drowning. Hunter expands on this thought, writing, \"...I am convinced that people's desire to believe the Thomson murder mystery/soap opera is rooted in the firmly fixed idea that he was an expert woodsman, intimate with nature. Such figures aren't supposed to die by 'accident.' If they do, it is like Grey Owl's being exposed as an Englishman.\"\n\nThomson was largely self-taught. His experiences as a graphic designer with Toronto's Grip Ltd. honed his draughtsmanship. Although he began painting and drawing at an early age, it was only in 1912, when he was well into his thirties, that he began to paint seriously. His first trips to Algonquin Park inspired him to follow the lead of fellow artists in producing oil sketches of natural scenes on small, rectangular panels for easy portability while travelling. Between 1912 and his death in 1917, Thomson produced hundreds of these small sketches, many of which are now considered works in their own right, and are mostly found in the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto, the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, the McMichael Canadian Art Collection in Kleinburg and the Tom Thomson Art Gallery in Owen Sound.\n\nThomson's produced nearly all of his works between 1912 and 1917. Most of his large canvases were completed in his most productive period, from late 1916 to early 1917. The patronage of James MacCallum enabled Thomson's transition from graphic designer to professional painter. Although the Group of Seven was not founded until after his death, his work was sympathetic to that of group members A. Y. Jackson, Frederick Varley, and Arthur Lismer. These artists shared an appreciation for rugged, unkempt natural scenery, and all used broad brush strokes and a liberal application of paint to capture the beauty and colour of the Ontario landscape. Thomson's art also bears some stylistic resemblance to the work of European post-impressionists such as Vincent van Gogh. Other key influences were the Art Nouveau and Arts and Crafts movements of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, styles with which he became familiar while working in the graphic arts.\n\nThomson's artwork is typically divided into two bodies: the first are the small oil sketches on wood panels, of which there are around 400, and the second is of around 50 larger works on canvas. The smaller sketches were typically done \"en plein air\" in \"the North\", primarily Algonquin Park, in the spring, summer and fall. Mark Robinson later recounted that Thomson usually had a particular motif he wanted to depict before going into nature to find a comparison. The larger canvases were instead completed over the winter in Thomson's studio—an old utility shack with a wood-burning stove on the grounds of the Studio Building, an artist's enclave in Rosedale, Toronto. About a dozen of the major canvases were derived directly from smaller sketches. Paintings like \"Northern River\", \"Spring Ice\", \"The Jack Pine\" and \"The West Wind\" were only later expanded into larger oil paintings.\n\nSketches from 1913 and earlier use a variety of supports, including canvas laid down on paperboard, canvas laid down on wood and commercial canvas-board. In 1914, he began to favour the larger birch wood panels used by A. Y. Jackson, typically measuring around 21.6 × 26.7 cm (8½ × 10½ in.). From late 1914 on, Thomson alternated between painting on these inexpensive pieces of wood—some from crates, bookbinder's board, and other assorted sources—and composite wood-pulp boards.\n\nAlthough the sketches were produced quickly, the canvases were developed over weeks or even months. Compared to the panels, they display an \"inherent formality\", and lack much of the \"energy, spontaneity, and immediacy\" of the original sketches. The transition from small to large required a reinvention or elaboration of the original details; by comparing sketches with their respective canvases, one can see the changes Thomson made in colour, detail and background textural patterns. Although few of the larger paintings were sold during his lifetime, they formed the basis of posthumous exhibitions, including one at Wembley in London in 1924, that eventually brought his work to international attention.\n\nDescribed as having an \"idiosyncratic palette\", Thomson had exceptional control of colour. He often mixed available pigments to create new, unusual colours that, along with his brushwork, made his art instantly recognizable regardless of its subject. His painting style and the atmosphere, colours and forms of his work influenced the work of his colleagues and friends, especially Jackson, Lismer, MacDonald, Harris and Carmichael.\n\nThomson's most famous paintings are his depictions of pine trees, particularly \"The Jack Pine\" and \"The West Wind\". David Silcox has described these paintings as \"the visual equivalent of a national anthem, for they have come to represent the spirit of the whole country, notwithstanding the fact that vast tracts of Canada have no pine trees\", and as \"so majestic and memorable that nearly everyone knows them\". Arthur Lismer described them similarly, saying that the tree in \"The West Wind\" was a symbol of the Canadian character, unyielding to the wind and emblematic of steadfastness and resolution.\n\nThomson had a great enthusiasm for trees and worked to capture their forms, their surrounding locations, and the effect of the seasons on them. He normally depicted trees as amalgamated masses, giving \"form structure and colour by dragging paint in bold strokes over an underlying tone\". His favourite motif was of a slight hill next to a body of water. His enthusiasm is especially apparent in an anecdote from Ernest Freure, who invited Thomson to camp on an island on Georgian Bay:\n\nThe theme of the single tree is common in Art Nouveau, while the motif of the lone, heroic tree goes back even further to at least Caspar David Friedrich and early German Romanticism. Thomson may also have been influenced by the work of MacDonald while working at Grip Limited. MacDonald in turn was influenced by the landscape art of John Constable, whose work he likely saw while in England from 1903 to 1906. Constable's art influenced Thomson's as well, something apparent when Constable's \"\" () is compared with Thomson's \"\".\n\nThomson's earlier paintings were closer to literal renderings of the trees in front of him, and as he progressed the trees became more expressive as Thomson amplified their individual qualities. \"Byng Inlet, Georgian Bay\" shows the broken, high-keyed colour that Thomson and his colleagues experimented with later in his career, and is similar to Lismer's \"Sunglow\". While Lismer only applied the technique to the water, Thomson applied it throughout the composition. According to MacCallum, Thomson worked on \"Pine Island, Georgian Bay\" over an extended period. He wrote that this painting had \"more emotion and feeling than any other of [Thomson's] canvases\". In contrast, MacDonald found it \"rather commonplace in color & composition & not representative of Thomson at his best\".\n\nThomson was preoccupied with capturing the sky, especially near the end of his career from 1915 onward. Paintings like \"Sunset\"—which was painted at water level in a canoe—illustrate his excited brushstrokes in capturing the lake's reflection. The painting was done over a grey-green ground, adding depth to both the light of the sky and the reflecting water. Paintings from 1913 and on consistently utilize the perspective of the canoe, with a narrow foreground of water, a distant shoreline and a dominating sky.\n\nThe 1915 volcanic eruption of Lassen Peak in California provided dramatic sunrises and sunsets in the northern hemisphere for the year. These skies provided artistic inspiration for Thomson and other artists in the same way that the eruption of Krakatoa in the previous century had inspired Edvard Munch. Sky effects were one of Thomson's main interests for the entire year, indicated by his heightened use of colour.\n\nHarold Town has compared \"Sky (The Light That Never Was)\" to the works of J. M. W. Turner. In particular, he notes the way that the sky \"[creeps] into the landscape, big rhythms supplanting small movement\". The horizon disappears and pure movement is left behind.\n\nThomson produced more nocturnes than the rest of the Group of Seven combined—roughly two dozen. MacCallum recalled that Thomson often spent his nights lying in his canoe in the middle of the lake, stargazing and avoiding mosquitoes. Besides capturing the nighttime sky, he also captured silhouettes of spruce and birch trees, lumber camps, two moose emerging from water and the northern lights, painting five different sketches of the aurora.\n\nMark Robinson recounted that Thomson stood and contemplated the aurora for an extended period of time before going back into his cabin to paint by lamplight. He sometimes completed nocturnes this way, going back and forth between painting indoors and looking at the subject outside until he completed the sketch. Other times, given the difficulty of painting by moonlight, many of the nocturnes were painted entirely from memory. MacCallum confirmed that the sketch \"Moose at Night\" was completed in this way, writing on the back \"Winter 1916—at studio\", implying it was probably painted in Toronto. His moonlight paintings use a \"dreamy, pale-toned style\", applying the techniques of Impressionism in his observations of light, reflection and atmosphere.\n\nAs was typical for painters of the early twentieth century, Thomson produced still lifes of flowers, all of which appear in the form of sketches. His love of flowers may have developed from his father who, as a neighbour noted, had \"a permanent half acre of a really good garden which was always worth going to see\". Thomson's time spent as a child collecting samples with his naturalist relative Dr. William Brodie may have similarly influenced him, though his interest in painting flowers seems to have been more focused on patterning and decoration than on the horticultural specifics of the subject.\n\nThese paintings, especially \"Marguerites, Wood Lilies and Vetch\" and \"Wildflowers\", are particularly powerful examples of the genre. J. E. H. MacDonald—himself deeply invested in floral imagery—was so captured by \"Marguerites, Wood Lilies and Vetch\" that he kept it for himself, writing \"Not For Sale\" on the back. Thomson's work is contrasted from MacDonald's by what Joan Murray calls, \"its elegant, slightly funky form and throwaway spontaneity.\" Lawren Harris instead noted \"Wildflowers\" as a favourite, writing \"1st class\" on the verso. The colour of the sketch is less brilliant, but has superb brushwork and is well coordinated, setting blues against yellows and reds against whites.\n\nResponding to his subject with improvisation, every painting is different in its colour scheme and arrangement. In all the sketches, he redirected emphasis from the delicacy of the flowers towards simple broad strokes of colour, something Harold Town thought \"[imparted] a toughness of design sometimes missing in his harder themes of rock and bracken\". In \"Water Flowers\" particularly, the shapes are handled so summarily that the focus moves entirely to the colour of the flowers. This, combined with the black background, produces a more abstract effect. The black backdrop also causes the colours of the flowers to appear more vivid.\n\nDuring Thomson's time in Algonquin Park, logging and the lumber industry were a constant presence. He often painted the machinery left behind by lumber companies, with Lismer, MacDonald and himself being especially drawn to the subject. A. Y. Jackson wrote, \n\nAround 1916, Thomson followed the drive of logs down the Madawaska River, painting the subject in \"The Drive\". MacDonald similarly expressed the drive in his 1915 painting \"\". Besides the dams, pointer and alligator boats and log drives that appear in Thomson's work, other less obvious depictions of the lumber industry are evident. For example, areas cleared out due to logging appear in early sketches, such as \"\" (1913) and \"\". The painting \"Drowned Land\" similarly displays the damage caused by logging operations and flooding due to damming. As well, the white birches present in many paintings only thrive in \"sunny, open areas whose previous tree cover had been removed\", meaning that logging was in some way necessary for them to flourish.\n\nThomson's and the Group of Seven's work reflects the typical Canadian attitudes of the time, namely that the available natural resources were meant to be exploited. Harold Town has argued that, while Thomson was not directly critical of industry, mining and logging, he \"did not glorify industry in the bush.\"\n\nThomson, like most of the members of the Group of Seven, rarely painted people. When he did, the human subject was usually someone close to him personally, such as the depiction of Shannon Fraser in \"In the Sugar Bush\". The figure in \"The Poacher\" is recorded deliberately, including his hat, hunting vest and blue shirt. The hot coal grill in front of him is drying his poach—likely venison. Harold Town observed that both Thomson and Canadian artist David Milne \"shared in common a similar inability to draw the human figure\", something professor John Wadland thought was \"embarrassingly evident\" in several of Thomson's portraits.\n\nTown described paintings like \"Man with Axe (Lowery Dixon) Splitting Wood\" as stiff, yet still held together in a cohesive crudity. He described \"Figure of a Lady, Laura\" differently, interpreting it as a tender work, \"well-designed and plainly expressed, this loving picture is so secure in intention that it survives, indeed triumphs, over the severe cracking of the paint\". Thomson's most successful attempts at capturing people typically feature figures far off in the distance, allowing them to blend in to the scene. This is apparent in paintings like \"Little Cauchon Lake\", \"Bateaux\", \"The Drive\", \"The Pointers\" and \"\".\n\nSince his death, Thomson's work has grown in value and popularity. Group of Seven member Arthur Lismer wrote that he \"is the manifestation of the Canadian character\". Another contemporaneous Canadian painter, David Milne, wrote to National Gallery of Canada Director H. O. McCurry in 1930, \"Your Canadian art apparently, for now at least, went down in Canoe Lake. Tom Thomson still stands as \"the\" Canadian painter, harsh, brilliant, brittle, uncouth, not only most Canadian but most creative. How the few things of his stick in one's mind.\" For Canadian artists Roy Kiyooka and Dennis Lee, he is a \"haunting presence\" and \"embodies the Canadian artistic identity\".\n\nAs of 2015, the highest price achieved by a Thomson sketch was \"\", which sold in 2009 for CAD$2,749,500. Few major canvases remain in private collections, making the record unlikely to be broken. One example of the demand his work has achieved is the previously lost \"\". This was discovered in an Edmonton basement in 2018 and went on to sell for nearly half a million dollars at a Toronto auction. The increased value of his work has led to the discovery of numerous forgeries on the market.\n\nIn 1967, the Tom Thomson Art Gallery opened in Owen Sound. In 1968, Thomson's shack from behind the Studio Building was moved to the McMichael Canadian Art Collection in Kleinburg. Many of his works are also on display at the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, the Art Gallery of Ontario, and the McMichael Canadian Art Collection in Kleinburg, Ontario. His influence can be seen in the work of later Canadian artists, including Joyce Wieland. In 2004, another historical marker honouring Thomson was moved from its previous location nearer the centre of Leith to the graveyard in which he is now buried. The grave site has become popular spot for visitors to the area with many fans of his work leaving pennies or art supplies behind as tribute.\n\nThough he is most known for his painting, Thomson is often mythologized as a veritable outdoorsman. Dr. James MacCallum contributed stories to this image. He has often been remembered as an expert canoeist, though David Silcox has argued that this image is romanticized. In the case of fishing however, he was no doubt proficient. He had a deep love of fishing for his entire life, so much so that his reputation through Algonquin Park was equally divided between art and angling. While most who visited the Park were led by hired guides, he moved through on his own. Indeed, many of his fishing locations appear in his work.\n\nBooks\n\nArticles\n\nArchives and letters\n\nBooks and catalogues\n\nJournal articles\n\nFilms\n\nThe Group of Seven and Canadian art\n\n"}
{"id": "232940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232940", "title": "War on Poverty", "text": "War on Poverty\n\nThe War on Poverty is the unofficial name for legislation first introduced by United States President Lyndon B. Johnson during his State of the Union address on Wednesday, January 8, 1964. This legislation was proposed by Johnson in response to a national poverty rate of around nineteen percent. The speech led the United States Congress to pass the Economic Opportunity Act, which established the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO) to administer the local application of federal funds targeted against poverty.\n\nAs a part of the Great Society, Johnson believed in expanding the federal government's roles in education and health care as poverty reduction strategies. These policies can also be seen as a continuation of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, which ran from 1933 to 1937, and the Four Freedoms of 1941. Johnson stated, \"Our aim is not only to relieve the symptom of poverty, but to cure it and, above all, to prevent it\".\n\nThe legacy of the War on Poverty policy initiative remains in the continued existence of such federal programs as Head Start, Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA), TRiO, and Job Corps.\n\nDeregulation, growing criticism of the welfare state, and an ideological shift to reducing federal aid to impoverished people in the 1980s and 1990s culminated in the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act of 1996, which President Bill Clinton claimed, \"ended welfare as we know it.\"\n\n\nThe Office of Economic Opportunity was the agency responsible for administering most of the War on Poverty programs created during Johnson's Administration, including VISTA, Job Corps, Head Start, Legal Services and the Community Action Program. The OEO was established in 1964 and quickly became a target of both left-wing and right-wing critics of the War on Poverty. Directors of the OEO included Sargent Shriver, Bertrand Harding, and Donald Rumsfeld.\n\nThe OEO launched Project Head Start as an eight-week summer program in 1965. The project was designed to help end poverty by providing preschool children from low-income families with a program that would meet emotional, social, health, nutritional, and psychological needs. Head Start was then transferred to the Office of Child Development in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (later the Department of Health and Human Services) by the Nixon Administration in 1969.\n\nPresident Johnson also announced a second project to follow children from the Head Start program. This was implemented in 1967 with Project Follow Through, the largest educational experiment ever conducted.\n\nThe policy trains disadvantaged and at-risk youth and has provided more than 2 million disadvantaged young people with the integrated academic, vocational, and social skills training they need to gain independence and get quality, long-term jobs or further their education. Job Corps continues to help 70,000 youths annually at 122 Job Corps centers throughout the country. Besides vocational training, many Job Corps also offer GED programs as well as high school diplomas and programs to get students into college.\n\nIn the decade following the 1964 introduction of the war on poverty, poverty rates in the U.S. dropped to their lowest level since comprehensive records began in 1958: from 17.3% in the year the Economic Opportunity Act was implemented to 11.1% in 1973. They have remained between 11 and 15.2% ever since. It is important to note, however, that the steep decline in poverty rates began in 1959, 5 years before the introduction of the war on poverty (see figure 4 below).\n\nThe 'absolute poverty line' is the threshold below which families or individuals are considered to be lacking the resources to meet the basic needs for healthy living; having insufficient income to provide the food, shelter and clothing needed to preserve health. Poverty among Americans between ages 18–64 has fallen only marginally since 1966, from 10.5% then to 10.1% today. Poverty has significantly fallen among Americans under 18 years old from 23% in 1964 down to less than 17%, although it has risen again to 20% in 2009. The most dramatic decrease in poverty was among Americans over 65, which fell from 28.5% in 1966 to 10.1% today.\n\nIn 2004, more than 35.9 million, or 12% of Americans including 12.1 million children, were considered to be living in poverty with an average growth of almost 1 million per year. According to the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, since the Johnson Administration, almost $15 trillion has been spent on welfare, with poverty rates being about the same as during the Johnson Administration. A 2013 study published by Columbia University asserts that without the social safety net, the poverty rate would have been 29% for 2012, instead of 16%. According to OECD data from 2012, the poverty rate before taxes and transfers was 28.3%, while the poverty rate after taxes and transfers fell to 17.4%.\n\nThe OEO was dismantled by President Nixon in 1973, though many of the agency's programs were transferred to other government agencies.\n\nAccording to the \"Readers' Companion to U.S. Women's History\",\n\nMany observers point out that the War on Poverty's attention to Black America created the grounds for the backlash that began in the 1970s. The perception by the white middle class that it was footing the bill for ever-increasing services to the poor led to diminished support for welfare state programs, especially those that targeted specific groups and neighborhoods. Many whites viewed Great Society programs as supporting the economic and social needs of low-income urban minorities; they lost sympathy, especially as the economy declined during the 1970s.\n\nUnited States Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare under President Jimmy Carter, Joseph A. Califano, Jr. wrote in 1999 in an issue of the \"Washington Monthly\" that:\n\nIn waging the war on poverty, congressional opposition was too strong to pass an income maintenance law. So LBJ took advantage of the biggest automatic cash machine around: Social Security. He proposed, and Congress enacted, whopping increases in the minimum benefits that lifted some two million Americans 65 and older above the poverty line. In 1996, thanks to those increased minimum benefits, Social Security lifted 12 million senior citizens above the poverty line ... No Great Society undertaking has been subjected to more withering conservative attacks than the Office of Economic Opportunity. Yet, the War on Poverty was founded on the most conservative principle: Put the power in the local community, not in Washington; give people at the grassroots the ability to stand tall on their own two feet. Conservative claims that the OEO poverty programs were nothing but a waste of money are preposterous ... Eleven of the 12 programs that OEO launched in the mid-'60s are alive, well and funded at an annual rate exceeding $10 billion; apparently legislators believe they're still working.\nPresident Johnson's \"War on Poverty\" speech was delivered at a time of recovery (the poverty level had fallen from 22.4% in 1959 to 19% in 1964 when the War on Poverty was announced) and it was viewed by critics as an effort to get the United States Congress to authorize social welfare programs.\n\nSome economists, including Milton Friedman, have argued that Johnson's policies actually had a negative impact on the economy because of their interventionist nature, noting in a PBS interview that \"the government sets out to eliminate poverty, it has a war on poverty, so-called \"poverty\" increases. It has a welfare program, and the welfare program leads to an expansion of problems. A general attitude develops that government isn't a very efficient way of doing things.\" Adherents of this school of thought recommend that the best way to fight poverty is not through government spending but through economic growth.\n\nProf. Tony Judt, the late historian, said in reference to the earlier proposed title of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act that \"a more Orwellian title would be hard to conceive\" and attributed the decline in the popularity of the Great Society as a policy to its success, as fewer people feared hunger, sickness, and ignorance. Additionally, fewer people were concerned with ensuring a minimum standard for all citizens and social liberalism.\n\nConservative Research Fellow at the Independent Institute James L. Payne followed this line of thinking when he wrote that \"the war on poverty was a costly, tragic mistake [because]...abolishing poverty did not seem far-fetched to the activists ... [and] it was a perspective that led to intolerance ... The simple economic theory of poverty led to a single underlying principle for welfare programs ... In adopting the handout approach for their programs, the war-on-poverty activists failed to notice – or failed to care – that they were ignoring over a century of theory and experience in the social welfare field ... The war-on-poverty activists not only ignored the lessons of the past on the subject of handouts; they also ignored their own experience with the poor.\"\n\nEconomist Thomas Sowell also criticized the War on Poverty's programs, writing \"The black family, which had survived centuries of slavery and discrimination, began rapidly disintegrating in the liberal welfare state that subsidized unwed pregnancy and changed welfare from an emergency rescue to a way of life.\"\n\nOthers took a different tack. In 1967, in his book \"\" Martin Luther King \"criticized Johnson's War on Poverty for being too piecemeal\", saying that programs created under the \"war on poverty\" such as \"housing programs, job training and family counseling\" all had \"a fatal disadvantage [because] the programs have never proceeded on a coordinated basis...[and noted that] at no time has a total, coordinated and fully adequate program been conceived.\" In his speech on April 4, 1967 at Riverside Church in New City, King connected the war in Vietnam with the \"war on poverty\":\n\nThere is at the outset a very obvious and almost facile connection between the war in Vietnam and the struggle I, and others, have been waging in America. A few years ago there was a shining moment in that struggle. It seemed as if there was a real promise of hope for the poor –both black and white – through the poverty program. There were experiments, hopes, new beginnings. Then came the buildup in Vietnam and I watched the program broken and eviscerated as if it were some idle political plaything of a society gone mad on war, and I knew that America would never invest the necessary funds or energies in rehabilitation of its poor so long as adventures like Vietnam continued to draw men and skills and money like some demonic destructive suction tube. So I was increasingly compelled to see the war as an enemy of the poor and to attack it as such. Perhaps the more tragic recognition of reality took place when it became clear to me that the war was doing far more than devastating the hopes of the poor at home.\n\nThis criticism was repeated in his speech at the same place later that month when he said that \"and you may not know it, my friends, but it is estimated that we spend $500,000 to kill each enemy soldier, while we spend only fifty-three dollars for each person classified as poor, and much of that fifty-three dollars goes for salaries to people that are not poor. So I was increasingly compelled to see the war as an enemy of the poor, and attack it as such.\" The next year, King started the Poor People's Campaign to address the shortcomings of the \"war on poverty\" and to \"demand a check\" for suffering African-Americans which was carried on briefly after his death with the construction and maintenance of an encampment, Resurrection City, for over six weeks. Years later, a writer in \"The Nation\" remarked that \"the war on poverty has too often been a war on the poor themselves,\" but that much can be done.\n\nIn 1989, the former executive officer of the Task Force on Poverty Hyman Bookbinder addressed such criticisms of the \"war on poverty\" in an op-ed in \"The New York Times\". He wrote that:\n\nToday, the ranks of the poor are again swelling ... These and other statistics have led careless observers to conclude that the war on poverty failed. No, it has achieved many good results. Society has failed. It tired of the war too soon, gave it inadequate resources and did not open up new fronts as required. Large-scale homelessness, an explosion of teen-age pregnancies and single-parent households, rampant illiteracy, drugs and crime – these have been both the results of and causes of persistent poverty. While it is thus inappropriate to celebrate an anniversary of the war on poverty, it is important to point up some of the big gains ... Did every program of the 60's work? Was every dollar used to its maximum potential? Should every Great Society program be reinstated or increased? Of course not ... First, we cannot afford not to resume the war. One way or another, the problem will remain expensive. Somehow, we will provide for the survival needs of the poorest: welfare, food stamps, beds and roofs for the homeless, Medicaid. The fewer poor there are, the fewer the relief problems. Getting people out of poverty is the most cost-effective public investment.\"\n\nIn March 3, 2014, as Chairman of the Budget Committee of the House of Representatives, Paul Ryan released his \"\" report, asserting that some of 92 federal programs designed to help lower-income Americans have not provided the relief intended and that there is little evidence that these efforts have been successful. At the core of the report are recommendations to enact cuts to welfare, child care, college Pell grants and several other federal assistance programs. In the appendix titled \"Measures of Poverty\", when the poverty rate is measured by including non-cash assistance from food stamps, housing aid and other federal programs, the report states that these measurements have \"implications for both conservatives and liberals. For conservatives, this suggests that federal programs have actually decreased poverty. For liberals, it lessens the supposed need to expand existing programs or to create new ones.\" Several economists and social scientists whose work had been referenced in the report said that Ryan either misunderstood or misrepresented their research.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10525687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10525687", "title": "Zilphia Horton", "text": "Zilphia Horton\n\nZilphia Horton (April 14, 1910 – April 11, 1956) was an American musician, community organizer, educator, Civil Rights activist, and folklorist. She is best known for her work with her husband Myles Horton at the Highlander Folk School where she is generally credited with turning such songs as \"We Shall Overcome\", \"Keep Your Eyes on the Prize,\" \"We Shall Not Be Moved,\" and \"This Little Light of Mine\" from hymns into songs of the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nZilphia was born Zilphia Mae Johnson in the mining town of Spadra, Arkansas. She was the second child of Robert Guy Johnson and Ora Ermon Howard Johnson. Her father was superintendent of the local coal mine which he later owned and operated. Her mom was a school teacher. She was of Spanish and Indian heritage. She was trained as a classical musician.\n\nShe was a graduate of the College of the Ozarks (now the University of the Ozarks). She was determined to use her talents for the better good of the southern working class. She was disowned by her family after she tried to organize her father's coal mine. In 1935, she attended a labor education workshop at the Highlander Folk School in Monteagle, Tennessee. Two months later, she married the school's founder, Myles Horton.\n\nAs a member of the staff, Zilphia served in many ways. She directed workers' theatre productions, junior union camps, and various community programs, organized union locals, and led singing at workshops, picket lines, union meetings, and fund-raising concerts. She had students collect folk songs, religious music, and union songs around the South which she then re-wrote or re-worked to turn into anthems of the Civil Rights movement.\n\nShe and Myles Horton had two children. On April 11, 1956, she died of kidney failure after accidentally drinking a glass of typewriter cleaning fluid containing carbon tetrachloride she mistook for water.\n\nShe is best known for helping to rewrite the song \"We Shall Overcome\" into a secular civil rights anthem in 1946. Other musicians credited with transforming the song are Frank Hamilton, Guy Carawan, and Pete Seeger. Other songs she reworked were \"Keep Your Eyes on the Prize,\" \"We Shall Not Be Moved,\" and \"This Little Light of Mine.\" She collected hundreds of songs. Her papers are deposited in the Tennessee State Library and Archives in Nashville.\n\n\n"}
