{"id": "16807997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16807997", "title": "Applied Neuroscience Society of Australasia", "text": "Applied Neuroscience Society of Australasia\n\nThe Applied Neuroscience Society of Australasia (ANSA) is a non-profit professional organization for applied neuroscience in Australia, with members in Australia, New Zealand and Asia. \n\nIt is established in 2007, following an amalgamation of AAAPB (Australian Association of Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback) and Australian Chapter of the ISNR (International Society for Neuronal Regulation). \n\nMembers include clinicians and researchers. They comprise psychologists, psychiatrists, pediatricians, behavioral optometrists, speech therapists, trainers and other professionals who have a university degree, appropriate clinical training as well as registration with their professional board. \n\nThe aim of the society is to promote expertise and high standards in the optimization of brain functioning through the application of knowledge in brain science, nutrition, psychology and medicine.\n\nMany members are practitioners or researchers of biofeedback and neurofeedback. Their interests include the non-medication treatment of developmental disorders (e.g. ADHD, dyslexia, learning disorders, behavioural problems), psychiatric disorders, as well as performance improvement for the normal individuals. \n\nThe Society maintains a close relationship with related international societies, including the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback, International Society for Neurofeedback and Research, and the Biofeedback Foundation of Europe. \n\nIt holds an annual Conference, Annual Workshops with invited international speakers, as well as skill training workshops during the year.\n\nInternational speakers for the 2014 Annual Conference and Workshops include Dirk De Ridder M.D., PhD, Robert W. Thatcher PhD., and Randy Beck PhD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40799693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40799693", "title": "Audrey Arnott", "text": "Audrey Arnott\n\nAudrey Juliet Arnott (1901–1974) was a medical illustrator who worked with the neurosurgeon Hugh Cairns at the London Hospital and followed him to Oxford when he was appointed Nuffield Professor of Surgery in 1939. She founded the Medical Artists’ Association of Great Britain from her home in Wolvercote in 1949.\n\nWhen Audrey Arnott graduated from the Royal College of Art, she was employed by Hugh Cairns as an artist. The surgeon arranged for Arnott to be trained at the Academy of Fine Arts in Leipzig as a medical illustrator under Max Brödel, founder of the first 'Department of Art as Applied to Medicine' at Johns Hopkins University in 1911. Brödel taught Arnott the technique of drawing on Ross-board with carbon dust, a method which Arnott later passed onto other British medical illustrators. As Arnott was the only British student of Brödel, she is credited with introducing the technique to United Kingdom.\n\nArnott accompanied Cairns to the University of Oxford when he opened the neurosurgical department there in 1939. During her time there she produced a number of neurosurgical illustrations for Hugh Cairns, using the Ross-board and carbon dust technique taught to her by Brödel. Her illustrations have been regarded as showing the clarity of black and white photography, intricate in their anatomical, surgical, and pathological detail whilst maintaining a unique artistic style.\n\nWithin the United Kingdom, Arnott was highly influential in the field of medical illustration, training numerous artists in the Ross-board technique, including Margaret McLarty (medical artist for the anaesthetic department). McLarty's later publication \"Illustrating Medicine and Surgery\" became a core text for medical illustrators. Arnott and McLarty, with two other illustrators, founded the Medical Artists Association of Great Britain on 2 April 1949. The foundation acted as a professional body for medical artists and raise the standard of medical art through training, education and examinations.\n"}
{"id": "55269598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55269598", "title": "Austria at the Deaflympics", "text": "Austria at the Deaflympics\n\nAustria has been participating at the Deaflympics since 1931 and has earned a total of 78 medals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5603334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5603334", "title": "Baum test", "text": "Baum test\n\nThe Baum test, (also known as the \"Tree test\" or, in other countries, the \"Koch test\") is a projective test developed by Swiss psychologist Charles Koch in 1952. It is used extensively across the world as a method of analyzing an individual’s personality and underlying emotional history.\n\nPatients are asked to draw a broad-leaved tree on a standard 8.5″ × 11″ blank sheet of paper. A psychologist or a psychiatrist will then evaluate the different aspects of the tree drawing as well as the individual’s behavior /comments while completing the test.\n\nA tree is selected as the object to be drawn because trees serve as an important element in mythologies all over the world. Additionally, trees are a nonthreatening element that allow for a wide range of adaptation. It is suggested that the type of tree an individual draws relates to the structure of the psyche or unconscious itself.\n\nTwo forms of analysis are used to evaluate and interpret the Baum test. The global structure analysis views the tree as a whole, such the tree’s overall size and location on the paper. The internal structure analysis focuses on the finer details of the tree. There are 59 detail oriented aspects of the tree drawing that are used to evaluate an individual's thoughts or feelings including roots, trunk, branches, crown, leaves, knots, shading, symmetry, archetypal features etc.\n\nAdvantages of the Baum test are that it can be administered quickly (usually 5–10 minutes), to a wide range of individuals, and it offers the clinician an opportunity to observe the patients motor skills.\n\nLimitations of the Baum test are that it cannot be scored objectively. “One problem concerning the validity of the drawing technique is that researchers choose procedures that will no doubt result in nonsignificant findings. For example, they isolate one or a few indices from a figure drawing rating scale, taken completely out of context, and then attempt to correlate these indices with measure they view as excellent criterion variables, such as self-report inventories.” Additionally, the test typically not used on patients with very low IQs because their drawings tend to be quite meager.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30344442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30344442", "title": "Bird kill", "text": "Bird kill\n\nBird kill is a localized event resulting in the death of large numbers of birds at the same time.\n\nLarge die offs of animals are not unusual in nature, and happen for a variety of reasons including bad weather, disease, and poisonings, with pollution and climate change adding to the stresses on wildlife. According to the USGS National Wildlife Health Center in the US over the past 10 years 175 mass deaths events exceeding 1,000 birds occurred.\n\nRussian scientist Afanasiy Ilich Tobonov researched mass animal deaths in the 1990s and concluded that the mass deaths of birds and wildlife in the Sakha Republic were noted only along the flight paths of space rockets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39477458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39477458", "title": "Blind bill folding", "text": "Blind bill folding\n\nIn the United States, some blind or otherwise visually-impaired people fold dollar bills in specific ways so that they can identify the denominations of the bills by feel. Though some people have their own idiosyncratic systems, there is a method recommended by the American Foundation for the Blind:\n\n\nUnlike the banknotes of most countries, all denominations of United States paper money are the same size, preventing the visually impaired from identifying bills by feel. This alleged lack of access for the blind led to a 2002 court case, \"American Council of the Blind v. Paulson\". In 2006, U.S. District Judge James Robertson ruled that the American bills gave an undue burden to the blind and denied them \"meaningful access\" to the U.S. currency system.\nRobertson accepted the plaintiff's argument that current practice violates Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act. As a result of the court's injunction, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing is planning to implement a raised tactile feature in the next redesign of each note, except the $1 (which it is by law not allowed to redesign).\n"}
{"id": "70547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70547", "title": "Breast cancer", "text": "Breast cancer\n\nBreast cancer is cancer that develops from breast tissue. Signs of breast cancer may include a lump in the breast, a change in breast shape, dimpling of the skin, fluid coming from the nipple, a newly inverted nipple, or a red or scaly patch of skin. In those with distant spread of the disease, there may be bone pain, swollen lymph nodes, shortness of breath, or yellow skin.\nRisk factors for developing breast cancer include being female, obesity, lack of physical exercise, drinking alcohol, hormone replacement therapy during menopause, ionizing radiation, early age at first menstruation, having children late or not at all, older age, prior history of breast cancer, and family history. About 5–10% of cases are due to genes inherited from a person's parents, including BRCA1 and BRCA2 among others. Breast cancer most commonly develops in cells from the lining of milk ducts and the lobules that supply the ducts with milk. Cancers developing from the ducts are known as ductal carcinomas, while those developing from lobules are known as lobular carcinomas. In addition, there are more than 18 other sub-types of breast cancer. Some cancers, such as ductal carcinoma in situ, develop from pre-invasive lesions. The diagnosis of breast cancer is confirmed by taking a biopsy of the concerning lump. Once the diagnosis is made, further tests are done to determine if the cancer has spread beyond the breast and which treatments are most likely to be effective.\nThe balance of benefits versus harms of breast cancer screening is controversial. A 2013 Cochrane review stated that it is unclear if mammographic screening does more good or harm. A 2009 review for the US Preventive Services Task Force found evidence of benefit in those 40 to 70 years of age, and the organization recommends screening every two years in women 50 to 74 years old. The medications tamoxifen or raloxifene may be used in an effort to prevent breast cancer in those who are at high risk of developing it. Surgical removal of both breasts is another preventative measure in some high risk women. In those who have been diagnosed with cancer, a number of treatments may be used, including surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, hormonal therapy and targeted therapy. Types of surgery vary from breast-conserving surgery to mastectomy. Breast reconstruction may take place at the time of surgery or at a later date. In those in whom the cancer has spread to other parts of the body, treatments are mostly aimed at improving quality of life and comfort.\nOutcomes for breast cancer vary depending on the cancer type, extent of disease, and person's age. Survival rates in the developed world are high, with between 80% and 90% of those in England and the United States alive for at least 5 years. In developing countries survival rates are poorer. Worldwide, breast cancer is the leading type of cancer in women, accounting for 25% of all cases. In 2012 it resulted in 1.68 million new cases and 522,000 deaths. It is more common in developed countries and is more than 100 times more common in women than in men.\n\nThe first noticeable symptom of breast cancer is typically a lump that feels different from the rest of the breast tissue. More than 80% of breast cancer cases are discovered when the woman feels a lump. The earliest breast cancers are detected by a mammogram. Lumps found in lymph nodes located in the armpits can also indicate breast cancer.\n\nIndications of breast cancer other than a lump may include thickening different from the other breast tissue, one breast becoming larger or lower, a nipple changing position or shape or becoming inverted, skin puckering or dimpling, a rash on or around a nipple, discharge from nipple/s, constant pain in part of the breast or armpit, and swelling beneath the armpit or around the collarbone. Pain (\"mastodynia\") is an unreliable tool in determining the presence or absence of breast cancer, but may be indicative of other breast health issues.\n\nInflammatory breast cancer is a particular type of breast cancer which can pose a substantial diagnostic challenge. Symptoms may resemble a breast inflammation and may include itching, pain, swelling, nipple inversion, warmth and redness throughout the breast, as well as an orange-peel texture to the skin referred to as \"peau d'orange\". As inflammatory breast cancer does not present as a lump there can sometimes be a delay in diagnosis.\n\nAnother reported symptom complex of breast cancer is Paget's disease of the breast. This syndrome presents as skin changes resembling eczema, such as redness, discoloration, or mild flaking of the nipple skin. As Paget's disease of the breast advances, symptoms may include tingling, itching, increased sensitivity, burning, and pain. There may also be discharge from the nipple. Approximately half of women diagnosed with Paget's disease of the breast also have a lump in the breast.\n\nIn rare cases, what initially appears as a fibroadenoma (hard, movable non-cancerous lump) could in fact be a phyllodes tumor. Phyllodes tumors are formed within the stroma (connective tissue) of the breast and contain glandular as well as stromal tissue. Phyllodes tumors are not staged in the usual sense; they are classified on the basis of their appearance under the microscope as benign, borderline, or malignant.\n\nOccasionally, breast cancer presents as metastatic disease—that is, cancer that has spread beyond the original organ. The symptoms caused by metastatic breast cancer will depend on the location of metastasis. Common sites of metastasis include bone, liver, lung and brain. Unexplained weight loss can occasionally signal breast cancer, as can symptoms of fevers or chills. Bone or joint pains can sometimes be manifestations of metastatic breast cancer, as can jaundice or neurological symptoms. These symptoms are called \"non-specific\", meaning they could be manifestations of many other illnesses.\n\nMost symptoms of breast disorders, including most lumps, do not turn out to represent underlying breast cancer. Fewer than 20% of lumps, for example, are cancerous, and benign breast diseases such as mastitis and fibroadenoma of the breast are more common causes of breast disorder symptoms.\n\nRisk factors can be divided into two categories:\nThe primary risk factors for breast cancer are being female and older age. Other potential risk factors include genetics, lack of childbearing or lack of breastfeeding, higher levels of certain hormones, certain dietary patterns, and obesity. One study indicates that exposure to light pollution is a risk factor for the development of breast cancer.\n\nObesity and drinking alcoholic beverages are among the most common modifiable risk factors.\n\nSmoking tobacco appears to increase the risk of breast cancer, with the greater the amount smoked and the earlier in life that smoking began, the higher the risk. In those who are long-term smokers, the risk is increased 35% to 50%. A lack of physical activity has been linked to about 10% of cases. Sitting regularly for prolonged periods is associated with higher mortality from breast cancer. The risk is not negated by regular exercise, though it is lowered.\n\nThere is an association between use of hormonal birth control and the development of premenopausal breast cancer, but whether oral contraceptives use may actually cause premenopausal breast cancer is a matter of debate. If there is indeed a link, the absolute effect is small. Additionally, it is not clear if the association exists with newer hormonal birth controls. In those with mutations in the breast cancer susceptibility genes \"BRCA1\" or \"BRCA2\", or who have a family history of breast cancer, use of modern oral contraceptives does not appear to affect the risk of breast cancer.\n\nThe association between breast feeding and breast cancer has not been clearly determined; some studies have found support for an association while others have not. In the 1980s, the abortion–breast cancer hypothesis posited that induced abortion increased the risk of developing breast cancer. This hypothesis was the subject of extensive scientific inquiry, which concluded that neither miscarriages nor abortions are associated with a heightened risk for breast cancer.\n\nA number of dietary factors have been linked to the risk for breast cancer. Drinking alcoholic beverages increases the risk of breast cancer, even at relatively low (one to three drinks per week) and moderate levels. The risk is highest among heavy drinkers. Dietary factors which may increase risk include a high-fat diet and obesity-related high cholesterol levels. Dietary iodine deficiency may also play a role. Evidence for fiber is unclear. A 2015 review found that studies trying to link fiber intake with breast cancer produced mixed results. In 2016 a tentative association between low fiber intake during adolescence and breast cancer was observed.\n\nOther risk factors include radiation and shift-work. A number of chemicals have also been linked, including polychlorinated biphenyls, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and organic solvents Although the radiation from mammography is a low dose, it is estimated that yearly screening from 40 to 80 years of age will cause approximately 225 cases of fatal breast cancer per million women screened.\n\nSome genetic susceptibility may play a minor role in most cases. Overall, however, genetics is believed to be the primary cause of 5–10% of all cases. Women whose mother was diagnosed before 50 have an increased risk of 1.7 and those whose mother was diagnosed at age 50 or after has an increased risk of 1.4. In those with zero, one or two affected relatives, the risk of breast cancer before the age of 80 is 7.8%, 13.3%, and 21.1% with a subsequent mortality from the disease of 2.3%, 4.2%, and 7.6% respectively. In those with a first degree relative with the disease the risk of breast cancer between the age of 40 and 50 is double that of the general population.\n\nIn less than 5% of cases, genetics plays a more significant role by causing a hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome. This includes those who carry the \"BRCA1\" and \"BRCA2\" gene mutation. These mutations account for up to 90% of the total genetic influence with a risk of breast cancer of 60–80% in those affected. Other significant mutations include \"p53\" (Li–Fraumeni syndrome), \"PTEN\" (Cowden syndrome), and \"STK11\" (Peutz–Jeghers syndrome), \"CHEK2\", \"ATM\", \"BRIP1\", and \"PALB2\". In 2012, researchers said that there are four genetically distinct types of the breast cancer and that in each type, hallmark genetic changes lead to many cancers.\n\nBreast changes like atypical ductal hyperplasia and lobular carcinoma \"in situ\", found in benign breast conditions such as fibrocystic breast changes, are correlated with an increased breast cancer risk.\n\nDiabetes mellitus might also increase the risk of breast cancer. Autoimmune diseases such as lupus erythematosus seem also to increase the risk for the acquisition of breast cancer.\n\nBreast cancer, like other cancers, occurs because of an interaction between an environmental (external) factor and a genetically susceptible host. Normal cells divide as many times as needed and stop. They attach to other cells and stay in place in tissues. Cells become cancerous when they lose their ability to stop dividing, to attach to other cells, to stay where they belong, and to die at the proper time.\n\nNormal cells will commit cell suicide (programmed cell death) when they are no longer needed. Until then, they are protected from cell suicide by several protein clusters and pathways. One of the protective pathways is the PI3K/AKT pathway; another is the RAS/MEK/ERK pathway. Sometimes the genes along these protective pathways are mutated in a way that turns them permanently \"on\", rendering the cell incapable of committing suicide when it is no longer needed. This is one of the steps that causes cancer in combination with other mutations. Normally, the PTEN protein turns off the PI3K/AKT pathway when the cell is ready for programmed cell death. In some breast cancers, the gene for the PTEN protein is mutated, so the PI3K/AKT pathway is stuck in the \"on\" position, and the cancer cell does not commit suicide.\n\nMutations that can lead to breast cancer have been experimentally linked to estrogen exposure.\n\nAbnormal growth factor signaling in the interaction between stromal cells and epithelial cells can facilitate malignant cell growth. In breast adipose tissue, overexpression of leptin leads to increased cell proliferation and cancer.\n\nIn the United States, 10 to 20 percent of people with breast cancer and people with ovarian cancer have a first- or second-degree relative with one of these diseases. The familial tendency to develop these cancers is called hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndrome. The best known of these, the \"BRCA\" mutations, confer a lifetime risk of breast cancer of between 60 and 85 percent and a lifetime risk of ovarian cancer of between 15 and 40 percent. Some mutations associated with cancer, such as \"p53\", \"BRCA1\" and \"BRCA2\", occur in mechanisms to correct errors in DNA. These mutations are either inherited or acquired after birth. Presumably, they allow further mutations, which allow uncontrolled division, lack of attachment, and metastasis to distant organs. However, there is strong evidence of residual risk variation that goes well beyond hereditary \"BRCA\" gene mutations between carrier families. This is caused by unobserved risk factors. This implicates environmental and other causes as triggers for breast cancers. The inherited mutation in \"BRCA1\" or \"BRCA2\" genes can interfere with repair of DNA cross links and DNA double strand breaks (known functions of the encoded protein). These carcinogens cause DNA damage such as DNA cross links and double strand breaks that often require repairs by pathways containing BRCA1 and BRCA2. However, mutations in \"BRCA\" genes account for only 2 to 3 percent of all breast cancers. Levin \"et al.\" say that cancer may not be inevitable for all carriers of \"BRCA1\" and \"BRCA2\" mutations. About half of hereditary breast–ovarian cancer syndromes involve unknown genes.\n\nGATA-3 directly controls the expression of estrogen receptor (ER) and other genes associated with epithelial differentiation, and the loss of GATA-3 leads to loss of differentiation and poor prognosis due to cancer cell invasion and metastasis.\n\nMost types of breast cancer are easy to diagnose by microscopic analysis of a sample—or biopsy—of the affected area of the breast. Also, there are types of breast cancer that require specialized lab exams.\n\nThe two most commonly used screening methods, physical examination of the breasts by a healthcare provider and mammography, can offer an approximate likelihood that a lump is cancer, and may also detect some other lesions, such as a simple cyst. When these examinations are inconclusive, a healthcare provider can remove a sample of the fluid in the lump for microscopic analysis (a procedure known as fine needle aspiration, or fine needle aspiration and cytology—FNAC) to help establish the diagnosis. The needle aspiration may be performed in a healthcare provider's office or clinic using local anaesthetic if required. A finding of clear fluid makes the lump highly unlikely to be cancerous, but bloody fluid may be sent off for inspection under a microscope for cancerous cells. Together, physical examination of the breasts, mammography, and FNAC can be used to diagnose breast cancer with a good degree of accuracy.\n\nOther options for biopsy include a core biopsy or vacuum-assisted breast biopsy, which are procedures in which a section of the breast lump is removed; or an excisional biopsy, in which the entire lump is removed. Very often the results of physical examination by a healthcare provider, mammography, and additional tests that may be performed in special circumstances (such as imaging by ultrasound or MRI) are sufficient to warrant excisional biopsy as the definitive diagnostic and primary treatment method.\n\nBreast cancers are classified by several grading systems. Each of these influences the prognosis and can affect treatment response. Description of a breast cancer optimally includes all of these factors.\n\nWomen can reduce their risk of breast cancer by maintaining a healthy weight, reducing alcohol use, increasing physical activity, and breast-feeding. These modifications might prevent 38% of breast cancers in the US, 42% in the UK, 28% in Brazil and 20% in China. The benefits with moderate exercise such as brisk walking are seen at all age groups including postmenopausal women. High levels of physical activity reduce the risk of breast cancer by about 14%. Strategies that encourage regular physical activity and reduce obesity could also have other benefits, such as reduced risks of cardiovascular disease and diabetes.\n\nHigh intake of citrus fruit has been associated with a 10% reduction in the risk of breast cancer.\n\nMarine omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids appear to reduce the risk. High consumption of soy-based foods may reduce risk.\n\nRemoval of both breasts before any cancer has been diagnosed or any suspicious lump or other lesion has appeared (a procedure known as \"prophylactic bilateral mastectomy\" or \"risk reducing mastectomy\") may be considered in people with BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, which are associated with a substantially heightened risk for an eventual diagnosis of breast cancer. Evidence is not strong enough to support this procedure in anyone but those at the highest risk. BRCA testing is recommended in those with a high family risk after genetic counseling. It is not recommended routinely. This is because there are many forms of changes in \"BRCA\" genes, ranging from harmless polymorphisms to obviously dangerous frameshift mutations. The effect of most of the identifiable changes in the genes is uncertain. Testing in an average-risk person is particularly likely to return one of these indeterminate, useless results. Removing the second breast in a person who has breast cancer (contralateral risk‐reducing mastectomy or CRRM) may reduce the risk of cancer in the second breast, however, it is unclear if removing the second breast in those who have breast cancer improves survival.\n\nThe selective estrogen receptor modulators (such as tamoxifen) reduce the risk of breast cancer but increase the risk of thromboembolism and endometrial cancer. There is no overall change in the risk of death. They are thus not recommended for the prevention of breast cancer in women at average risk but may be offered for those at high risk. The benefit of breast cancer reduction continues for at least five years after stopping a course of treatment with these medications.\n\nBreast cancer screening refers to testing otherwise-healthy women for breast cancer in an attempt to achieve an earlier diagnosis under the assumption that early detection will improve outcomes. A number of screening tests have been employed including clinical and self breast exams, mammography, genetic screening, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging.\n\nA clinical or self breast exam involves feeling the breast for lumps or other abnormalities. Clinical breast exams are performed by health care providers, while self-breast exams are performed by the person themselves. Evidence does not support the effectiveness of either type of breast exam, as by the time a lump is large enough to be found it is likely to have been growing for several years and thus soon be large enough to be found without an exam. Mammographic screening for breast cancer uses X-rays to examine the breast for any uncharacteristic masses or lumps. During a screening, the breast is compressed and a technician takes photos from multiple angles. A general mammogram takes photos of the entire breast, while a diagnostic mammogram focuses on a specific lump or area of concern.\n\nA number of national bodies recommend breast cancer screening. For the average woman, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends mammography every two years in women between the ages of 50 and 74, the Council of Europe recommends mammography between 50 and 69 with most programs using a 2-year frequency, and in Canada screening is recommended between the ages of 50 and 74 at a frequency of 2 to 3 years. These task force reports point out that in addition to unnecessary surgery and anxiety, the risks of more frequent mammograms include a small but significant increase in breast cancer induced by radiation.\n\nThe Cochrane collaboration (2013) states that the best quality evidence neither demonstrates a reduction in cancer specific, nor a reduction in all cause mortality from screening mammography. When less rigorous trials are added to the analysis there is a reduction in mortality due to breast cancer of 0.05% (a decrease of 1 in 2000 deaths from breast cancer over 10 years or a relative decrease of 15% from breast cancer). Screening over 10 years results in a 30% increase in rates of over-diagnosis and over-treatment (3 to 14 per 1000) and more than half will have at least one falsely positive test. This has resulted in the view that it is not clear whether mammography screening does more good or harm. Cochrane states that, due to recent improvements in breast cancer treatment, and the risks of false positives from breast cancer screening leading to unnecessary treatment, \"it therefore no longer seems beneficial to attend for breast cancer screening\" at any age. Whether MRI as a screening method has greater harms or benefits when compared to standard mammography is not known.\n\nThe management of breast cancer depends on various factors, including the stage of the cancer and the person's age. Treatments are more aggressive when the prognosis is worse or there is a higher risk of recurrence of the cancer following treatment.\n\nBreast cancer is usually treated with surgery, which may be followed by chemotherapy or radiation therapy, or both. A multidisciplinary approach is preferable. Hormone receptor-positive cancers are often treated with hormone-blocking therapy over courses of several years. Monoclonal antibodies, or other immune-modulating treatments, may be administered in certain cases of metastatic and other advanced stages of breast cancer.\n\nSurgery involves the physical removal of the tumor, typically along with some of the surrounding tissue. One or more lymph nodes may be biopsied during the surgery; increasingly the lymph node sampling is performed by a sentinel lymph node biopsy.\n\nStandard surgeries include:\nOnce the tumor has been removed, if the person desires, breast reconstruction surgery, a type of plastic surgery, may then be performed to improve the aesthetic appearance of the treated site.\nAlternatively, women use breast prostheses to simulate a breast under clothing, or choose a flat chest. Nipple prosthesis can be used at any time following the mastectomy.\n\nDrugs used after and in addition to surgery are called adjuvant therapy. Chemotherapy or other types of therapy prior to surgery are called neoadjuvant therapy. Aspirin may reduce mortality from breast cancer.\n\nThere are currently three main groups of medications used for adjuvant breast cancer treatment: hormone-blocking agents, chemotherapy, and monoclonal antibodies.\n\nHormone blocking therapy\nChemotherapy\nMonoclonal antibodies\n\nRadiotherapy is given after surgery to the region of the tumor bed and regional lymph nodes, to destroy microscopic tumor cells that may have escaped surgery. It may also have a beneficial effect on tumor microenvironment. Radiation therapy can be delivered as external beam radiotherapy or as brachytherapy (internal radiotherapy). Conventionally radiotherapy is given \"after\" the operation for breast cancer. Radiation can also be given at the time of operation on the breast cancer. Radiation can reduce the risk of recurrence by 50–66% (1/2 – 2/3 reduction of risk) when delivered in the correct dose and is considered essential when breast cancer is treated by removing only the lump (Lumpectomy or Wide local excision).\n\nThe stage of the breast cancer is the most important component of traditional classification methods of breast cancer, because it has a greater effect on the prognosis than the other considerations. Staging takes into consideration size, local involvement, lymph node status and whether metastatic disease is present. The higher the stage at diagnosis, the poorer the prognosis. The stage is raised by the invasiveness of disease to lymph nodes, chest wall, skin or beyond, and the aggressiveness of the cancer cells. The stage is lowered by the presence of cancer-free zones and close-to-normal cell behaviour (grading). Size is not a factor in staging unless the cancer is invasive. For example, Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS) involving the entire breast will still be stage zero and consequently an excellent prognosis with a 10-year disease free survival of about 98%.\n\n\nThe breast cancer grade is assessed by comparison of the breast cancer cells to normal breast cells. The closer to normal the cancer cells are, the slower their growth and the better the prognosis. If cells are not well differentiated, they will appear immature, will divide more rapidly, and will tend to spread. Well differentiated is given a grade of 1, moderate is grade 2, while poor or undifferentiated is given a higher grade of 3 or 4 (depending upon the scale used). The most widely used grading system is the Nottingham scheme.\n\nYounger women with an age of less than 40 years or women over 80 years tend to have a poorer prognosis than post-menopausal women due to several factors. Their breasts may change with their menstrual cycles, they may be nursing infants, and they may be unaware of changes in their breasts. Therefore, younger women are usually at a more advanced stage when diagnosed. There may also be biologic factors contributing to a higher risk of disease recurrence for younger women with breast cancer.\n\nNot all people with breast cancer experience their illness in the same manner. Factors such as age can have a significant impact on the way a person copes with a breast cancer diagnosis. Premenopausal women with estrogen-receptor positive breast cancer must confront the issues of early menopause induced by many of the chemotherapy regimens used to treat their breast cancer, especially those that use hormones to counteract ovarian function.\n\nWorldwide, breast cancer is the most common invasive cancer in women. It affects about 12% of women worldwide. (The most common form of cancer is non-invasive non-melanoma skin cancer; non-invasive cancers are generally easily cured, cause very few deaths, and are routinely excluded from cancer statistics.) Breast cancer comprises 22.9% of invasive cancers in women and 16% of all female cancers. In 2012, it comprised 25.2% of cancers diagnosed in women, making it the most common female cancer.\n\nIn 2008, breast cancer caused 458,503 deaths worldwide (13.7% of cancer deaths in women and 6.0% of all cancer deaths for men and women together). Lung cancer, the second most common cause of cancer-related death in women, caused 12.8% of cancer deaths in women (18.2% of all cancer deaths for men and women together).\n\nThe incidence of breast cancer varies greatly around the world: it is lowest in less-developed countries and greatest in the more-developed countries. In the twelve world regions, the annual age-standardized incidence rates per 100,000 women are as follows: in Eastern Asia, 18; South Central Asia, 22; sub-Saharan Africa, 22; South-Eastern Asia, 26; North Africa and Western Asia, 28; South and Central America, 42; Eastern Europe, 49; Southern Europe, 56; Northern Europe, 73; Oceania, 74; Western Europe, 78; and in North America, 90.\n\nThe number of cases worldwide has significantly increased since the 1970s, a phenomenon partly attributed to the modern lifestyles. Breast cancer is strongly related to age with only 5% of all breast cancers occurring in women under 40 years old. There were more than 41,000 newly diagnosed cases of breast cancer registered in England in 2011, around 80% of these cases were in women age 50 or older Based on U.S. statistics in 2015 there were 2.8 million women affected by breast cancer. In the United States, the age-adjusted incidence of breast cancer per 100,000 women rose from around 102 cases per year in the 1970s to around 141 in the late 1990s, and has since fallen, holding steady around 125 since 2003. However age-adjusted deaths from breast cancer per 100,000 women only rose slightly from 31.4 in 1975 to 33.2 in 1989 and have since declined steadily to 20.5 in 2014.\n\nBecause of its visibility, breast cancer was the form of cancer most often described in ancient documents. Because autopsies were rare, cancers of the internal organs were essentially invisible to ancient medicine. Breast cancer, however, could be felt through the skin, and in its advanced state often developed into fungating lesions: the tumor would become necrotic (die from the inside, causing the tumor to appear to break up) and ulcerate through the skin, weeping fetid, dark fluid.\n\nThe oldest discovered evidence of breast cancer is from Egypt and dates back 4200 years, to the Sixth Dynasty. The study of a woman's remains from the necropolis of Qubbet el-Hawa showed the typical destructive damage due to metastatic spread. The Edwin Smith Papyrus describes 8 cases of tumors or ulcers of the breast that were treated by cauterization. The writing says about the disease, \"There is no treatment.\" For centuries, physicians described similar cases in their practices, with the same conclusion. Ancient medicine, from the time of the Greeks through the 17th century, was based on humoralism, and thus believed that breast cancer was generally caused by imbalances in the fundamental fluids that controlled the body, especially an excess of black bile. Alternatively it was seen as divine punishment. In the 18th century, a wide variety of medical explanations were proposed, including a lack of sexual activity, too much sexual activity, physical injuries to the breast, curdled breast milk, and various forms of lymphatic blockages, either internal or due to restrictive clothing. In the 19th century, the Scottish surgeon John Rodman said that fear of cancer caused cancer, and that this anxiety, learned by example from the mother, accounted for breast cancer's tendency to run in families.\n\nAlthough breast cancer was known in ancient times, it was uncommon until the 19th century, when improvements in sanitation and control of deadly infectious diseases resulted in dramatic increases in lifespan. Previously, most women had died too young to have developed breast cancer. Additionally, early and frequent childbearing and breastfeeding probably reduced the rate of breast cancer development in those women who did survive to middle age.\n\nBecause ancient medicine believed that the cause was systemic, rather than local, and because surgery carried a high mortality rate, the preferred treatments tended to be pharmacological rather than surgical. Herbal and mineral preparations, especially involving the poison arsenic, were relatively common.\n\nMastectomy for breast cancer was performed at least as early as AD 548, when it was proposed by the court physician Aetios of Amida to Theodora. It was not until doctors achieved greater understanding of the circulatory system in the 17th century that they could link breast cancer's spread to the lymph nodes in the armpit. The French surgeon Jean Louis Petit (1674–1750) performed total mastectomies which included removing the axillary lymph nodes, as he recognized that this reduced recurrence. Petit's work was built on by another French surgeon, Bernard Peyrilhe (1737–1804), who additionally removed the pectoral muscle underlying the breast, as he judged that this greatly improved the prognosis. The Scottish surgeon Benjamin Bell (1749–1806) advocated removal of the entire breast, even when only a portion was affected.\n\nTheir successful work was carried on by William Stewart Halsted who started performing radical mastectomies in 1882, helped greatly by advances in general surgical technology, such as aseptic technique and anesthesia. The Halsted radical mastectomy often involved removing both breasts, associated lymph nodes, and the underlying chest muscles. This often led to long-term pain and disability, but was seen as necessary in order to prevent the cancer from recurring. Before the advent of the Halsted radical mastectomy, 20-year survival rates were only 10%; Halsted's surgery raised that rate to 50%. Extending Halsted's work, Jerome Urban promoted superradical mastectomies, taking even more tissue, until 1963, when the ten-year survival rates proved equal to the less-damaging radical mastectomy.\n\nRadical mastectomies remained the standard of care in America until the 1970s, but in Europe, breast-sparing procedures, often followed by radiation therapy, were generally adopted in the 1950s. One reason for this striking difference in approach may be the structure of the medical professions: European surgeons, descended from the barber surgeon, were held in less esteem than physicians; in America, the surgeon was the king of the medical profession. Additionally, there were far more European women surgeons: Less than one percent of American surgical oncologists were female, but some European breast cancer wards boasted a medical staff that was half female. American health insurance companies also paid surgeons more to perform radical mastectomies than they did to perform more intricate breast-sparing surgeries.\n\nBreast cancer staging systems were developed in the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nDuring the 1970s, a new understanding of metastasis led to perceiving cancer as a systemic illness as well as a localized one, and more sparing procedures were developed that proved equally effective. Modern chemotherapy developed after World War II.\n\nProminent women who died of breast cancer include Anne of Austria, the mother of Louis XIV of France; Mary Washington, mother of George, and Rachel Carson, the environmentalist.\n\nThe first case-controlled study on breast cancer epidemiology was done by Janet Lane-Claypon, who published a comparative study in 1926 of 500 breast cancer cases and 500 controls of the same background and lifestyle for the British Ministry of Health.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, thousands of women who had successfully completed standard treatment then demanded and received high-dose bone marrow transplants, thinking this would lead to better long-term survival. However, it proved completely ineffective, and 15–20% of women died because of the brutal treatment.\n\nThe 1995 reports from the Nurses' Health Study and the 2002 conclusions of the Women's Health Initiative trial conclusively proved that hormone replacement therapy significantly increased the incidence of breast cancer.\n\nBefore the 20th century, breast cancer was feared and discussed in hushed tones, as if it were shameful. As little could be safely done with primitive surgical techniques, women tended to suffer silently rather than seeking care. When surgery advanced, and long-term survival rates improved, women began raising awareness of the disease and the possibility of successful treatment. The \"Women's Field Army\", run by the American Society for the Control of Cancer (later the American Cancer Society) during the 1930s and 1940s was one of the first organized campaigns. In 1952, the first peer-to-peer support group, called \"Reach to Recovery\", began providing post-mastectomy, in-hospital visits from women who had survived breast cancer.\n\nThe breast cancer movement of the 1980s and 1990s developed out of the larger feminist movements and women's health movement of the 20th century. This series of political and educational campaigns, partly inspired by the politically and socially effective AIDS awareness campaigns, resulted in the widespread acceptance of second opinions before surgery, less invasive surgical procedures, support groups, and other advances in care.\n\nA pink ribbon is the most prominent symbol of breast cancer awareness. Pink ribbons, which can be made inexpensively, are sometimes sold as fundraisers, much like poppies on Remembrance Day. They may be worn to honor those who have been diagnosed with breast cancer, or to identify products that the manufacturer would like to sell to consumers that are interested in breast cancer.\n\nThe pink ribbon is associated with individual generosity, faith in scientific progress, and a \"can-do\" attitude. It encourages consumers to focus on the emotionally appealing ultimate vision of a cure for breast cancer, rather than on the fraught path between current knowledge and any future cures.\n\nWearing or displaying a pink ribbon has been criticized by the opponents of this practice as a kind of slacktivism, because it has no practical positive effect. It has also been criticized as hypocrisy, because some people wear the pink ribbon to show good will towards women with breast cancer, but then oppose these women's practical goals, like patient rights and anti-pollution legislation. Critics say that the feel-good nature of pink ribbons and pink consumption distracts society from the lack of progress on preventing and curing breast cancer. It is also criticized for reinforcing gender stereotypes and objectifying women and their breasts. Breast Cancer Action launched the \"Think Before You Pink\" campaign, and said that businesses have co-opted the pink campaign to promote products that cause breast cancer, such as alcoholic beverages.\n\nBreast cancer culture, also known as pink ribbon culture, is the set of activities, attitudes, and values that surround and shape breast cancer in public. The dominant values are selflessness, cheerfulness, unity, and optimism. \n\nIn breast cancer culture, breast cancer therapy is viewed as a rite of passage rather than a disease. To fit into this mold, the woman with breast cancer needs to normalize and feminize her appearance, and minimize the disruption that her health issues cause anyone else. Anger, sadness, and negativity must be silenced.\n\nAs with most cultural models, people who conform to the model are given social status, in this case as cancer survivors. Women who reject the model are shunned, punished and shamed.\n\nThe culture is criticized for treating adult women like little girls, as evidenced by \"baby\" toys such as pink teddy bears given to adult women.\n\nThe primary purposes or goals of breast cancer culture are to maintain breast cancer's dominance as the pre-eminent women's health issue, to promote the appearance that society is doing something effective about breast cancer, and to sustain and expand the social, political, and financial power of breast cancer activists.\n\nCompared to other diseases or other cancers, breast cancer receives a proportionately greater share of resources and attention. In 2001 MP Ian Gibson, chairman of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom all party group on cancer stated \"The treatment has been skewed by the lobbying, there is no doubt about that. Breast cancer sufferers get better treatment in terms of bed spaces, facilities and doctors and nurses.\" Breast cancer also receives significantly more media coverage than other, equally prevalent cancers, with a study by Prostate Coalition showing 2.6 breast cancer stories for each one covering cancer of the prostate. Ultimately there is a concern that favoring sufferers of breast cancer with disproportionate funding and research on their behalf may well be costing lives elsewhere. Partly because of its relatively high prevalence and long-term survival rates, research is biased towards breast cancer. Some subjects, such as cancer-related fatigue, have been studied little except in women with breast cancer.\n\nOne result of breast cancer's high visibility is that statistical results can sometimes be misinterpreted, such as the claim that one in eight women will be diagnosed with breast cancer during their lives—a claim that depends on the unrealistic assumption that no woman will die of any other disease before the age of 95. This obscures the reality, which is that about ten times as many women will die from heart disease or stroke than from breast cancer.\n\nThe emphasis on breast cancer screening may be harming women by subjecting them to unnecessary radiation, biopsies, and surgery. One-third of diagnosed breast cancers might recede on their own. Screening mammography efficiently finds non-life-threatening, asymptomatic breast cancers and pre-cancers, even while overlooking serious cancers. According to H. Gilbert Welch of the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, research on screening mammography has taken the \"brain-dead approach that says the best test is the one that finds the most cancers\" rather than the one that finds dangerous cancers.\n\nBreast cancers occur during pregnancy at the same rate as breast cancers in non-pregnant women of the same age. Breast cancer then becomes more common in the 5 or 10 years following pregnancy but then becomes less common than among the general population. These cancers are known as postpartum breast cancer and have worse outcomes including an increased risk of distant spread of disease and mortality. Other cancers found during or shortly after pregnancy appear at approximately the same rate as other cancers in women of a similar age.\n\nDiagnosing new cancer in a pregnant woman is difficult, in part because any symptoms are commonly assumed to be a normal discomfort associated with pregnancy. As a result, cancer is typically discovered at a somewhat later stage than average in many pregnant or recently pregnant women. Some imaging procedures, such as MRIs (magnetic resonance imaging), CT scans, ultrasounds, and mammograms with fetal shielding are considered safe during pregnancy; some others, such as PET scans are not.\n\nTreatment is generally the same as for non-pregnant women. However, radiation is normally avoided during pregnancy, especially if the fetal dose might exceed 100 cGy. In some cases, some or all treatments are postponed until after birth if the cancer is diagnosed late in the pregnancy. Early deliveries to speed the start of treatment are not uncommon. Surgery is generally considered safe during pregnancy, but some other treatments, especially certain chemotherapy drugs given during the first trimester, increase the risk of birth defects and pregnancy loss (spontaneous abortions and stillbirths). Elective abortions are not required and do not improve the likelihood of the mother surviving or being cured.\n\nRadiation treatments may interfere with the mother's ability to breastfeed her baby because it reduces the ability of that breast to produce milk and increases the risk of mastitis. Also, when chemotherapy is being given after birth, many of the drugs pass through breast milk to the baby, which could harm the baby.\n\nRegarding future pregnancy among breast cancer survivors, there is often fear of cancer recurrence. On the other hand, many still regard pregnancy and parenthood to represent normalcy, happiness and life fulfillment.\n\nIn breast cancer survivors, non-hormonal birth control methods should be used as first-line options. Progestogen-based methods such as depot medroxyprogesterone acetate, IUD with progestogen or progestogen only pills have a poorly investigated but possible increased risk of cancer recurrence, but may be used if positive effects outweigh this possible risk.\n\nIn breast cancer survivors, it is recommended to first consider non-hormonal options for menopausal effects, such as bisphosphonates or selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) for osteoporosis, and vaginal estrogen for local symptoms. Observational studies of systemic hormone replacement therapy after breast cancer are generally reassuring. If hormone replacement is necessary after breast cancer, estrogen-only therapy or estrogen therapy with an intrauterine device with progestogen may be safer options than combined systemic therapy.\n\nTreatments are being evaluated in trials. This includes individual drugs, combinations of drugs, and surgical and radiation techniques Investigations include new types of targeted therapy, cancer vaccines, oncolytic virotherapy, gene therapy and immunotherapy.\n\nThe latest research is reported annually at scientific meetings such as that of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, and the St. Gallen Oncology Conference in St. Gallen, Switzerland. These studies are reviewed by professional societies and other organizations, and formulated into guidelines for specific treatment groups and risk category.\n\nFenretinide, a retinoid, is also being studied as a way to reduce the risk of breast cancer (retinoids are medications related to vitamin A).\n\nAs of 2014 cryoablation is being studied to see if it could be a substitute for a lumpectomy in small cancers. There is tentative evidence in those with tumors less than 2 centimeters. It may also be used in those in who surgery is not possible. Another review states that cryoablation looks promising for early breast cancer of small size.\n\nA considerable part of the current knowledge on breast carcinomas is based on in vivo and in vitro studies performed with cell lines derived from breast cancers. These provide an unlimited source of homogenous self-replicating material, free of contaminating stromal cells, and often easily cultured in simple standard media. The first breast cancer cell line described, BT-20, was established in 1958. Since then, and despite sustained work in this area, the number of permanent lines obtained has been strikingly low (about 100). Indeed, attempts to culture breast cancer cell lines from primary tumors have been largely unsuccessful. This poor efficiency was often due to technical difficulties associated with the extraction of viable tumor cells from their surrounding stroma. Most of the available breast cancer cell lines issued from metastatic tumors, mainly from pleural effusions. Effusions provided generally large numbers of dissociated, viable tumor cells with little or no contamination by fibroblasts and other tumor stroma cells.\nMany of the currently used BCC lines were established in the late 1970s. A very few of them, namely MCF-7, T-47D, and MDA-MB-231, account for more than two-thirds of all abstracts reporting studies on mentioned breast cancer cell lines, as concluded from a Medline-based survey.\n\nNFAT transcription factors are implicated in breast cancer, more specifically in the process of cell motility at the basis of metastasis formation. Indeed, NFAT1 (NFATC2) and NFAT5 are pro-invasive and pro-migratory in breast carcinoma and NFAT3 (NFATc4) is an inhibitor of cell motility.\nNFAT1 regulates the expression of the TWEAKR and its ligand TWEAK with the Lipocalin 2 to increase breast cancer cell invasion and NFAT3 inhibits Lipocalin 2 expression to blunt the cell invasion.\n\nClinically, the most useful metabolic markers in breast cancer are the estrogen and progesterone receptors that are used to predict response to hormone therapy. New or potentially new markers for breast cancer include BRCA1 and BRCA2 to identify people at high risk of developing breast cancer, HER-2, and SCD1, for predicting response to therapeutic regimens, and urokinase plasminogen activator, PA1-1 and SCD1 for assessing prognosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17985942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17985942", "title": "Capital punishment in Serbia", "text": "Capital punishment in Serbia\n\nCapital punishment was used from the creation of the modern Serbian state in 1804. On 26 February 2002, Serbian Parliament adopted amendments striking the death penalty from the Criminal Code. The last execution, by shooting, took place on 14 February 1992, and the last death sentences were pronounced in 2001. Serbia is bound by the following international conventions prohibiting capital punishment (dates of ratification are given in parentheses): Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (6 September 2001), Protocols No. 6 and No. 13 to the European Convention on Human Rights (3 March 2004). According to Article 24 of the Serbian constitution (2006): „Human life is inviolable. There shall be no death penalty in the Republic of Serbia“.\n\nIn the first decades of the 19th century, the death penalty was widely used in Serbia for a variety of offenses: murder, theft, political crimes, infanticide and even for extramarital sexual relations.\n\nUntil 1858, different modes of execution were in use: shooting, hanging, breaking on the wheel, „lethal gauntlet“ (a double file of men facing each other and armed with birch rods with which to strike at a person who is made to run between them) and decapitation; in the very beginning, there were a few instances of impalement. Until 1842, murderers were subject to „mirror“ punishments, meaning that a murderer was to be killed in an identical manner in which he killed the victim (often with the same weapon). In addition, the bodies of executed offenders were almost always publicly displayed on wheels and kept there for a set period of time or until „complete decay“. In 1858, shooting became the only legal mode of execution, while the practice of displaying the bodies was discontinued.\n\nUnder the first Serbian Penal Code, passed in 1860, the death sentences were to be executed in public, by shooting, while the executed body was to be buried immediately at the place of execution. The Code included sixteen capital offenses: various forms of murder and robbery leading to death, as well as treason. In 1863, however, the death penalty was re-introduced for theft and certain other crimes. The death penalty for theft was finally abolished only in 1902. In 1905, executions in Belgrade ceased to be public (the offenders were shot furtively in places not frequented by public), but they remained public (until 1930) in other towns and in the country, where thousands of spectators gathered for the spectacle.\n\nRegular statistics on capital punishment began to be kept in 1889. Before that, reliable data exist for some years only. For example, in 1844 there were 62 death sentences (and 50 executions), in 1857 – 87 (10), 1868 – 64 (36) and in 1887 – 34 (23). In 1883, the year of a massive rebellion against the government (\"Timočka buna\"), 117 persons (mostly rebels) were sentenced to death and 47 executed. According to the official statistics, in the 25 years from 1889 to 1914 there were 600 death sentences and 344 executions.\n\nWhen Yugoslavia was created in 1918, different legal systems remained in force in different parts of the new country. In the north-western provinces (Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia and Vojvodina), executions were by hanging in an enclosed space with restricted public attendance. In the remainder of the country (Serbia, Kosovo, Montenegro and Macedonia), executions were by shooting and in public. When a single Penal Code was introduced for the whole country (1929), hanging remained the only legal mode of execution, with the exception of sentences passed by military courts, which were executed by shooting.\n\nCrimes punished by death were mostly murder and robbery leading to death, as well as terrorism. The terrorists sentenced to death were mainly the communists and the Croatian, Macedonian and Albanian separatists.\n\nAccording to the official statistics, there were 459 death sentences and 232 executions in Serbia from 1920 to 1940 (on average, 22 sentences and 11 executions per year). In the same period, in the whole of Yugoslavia there were 904 sentences and 291 executions (43 and 14 per year).\n\nHangings were performed by state executioners: Alois Seyfried (1918-1922), Florian Mausner (1922-1928) and Karlo Dragutin Hart (1928-1941).\n\nIn the first years after World War II, death sentences were passed in large numbers daily on collaborationists and war criminals, but also on the „enemies of the people“, i.e. all those who opposed the new communist regime. There are no reliable data, but it seems likely that in Yugoslavia until 1951 there were as many as 10,000 death sentences, a majority of which were executed. In the same period, there must have been several thousands of death sentences and executions in Serbia. In addition to political offenses, capital crimes included the theft of the government property, as well as aggravated murder and robbery. Until 1959, executions were either by shooting or by hanging, as determined by the sentence of the court in each individual case, although hangings were considered as an aggravated form and were used less frequently. In the first post-war years, executions of major war criminals were often public. After 1950, the number of death sentences fell sharply. According to the official statistics, from 1950 to 1958 there were 229 death sentences in Yugoslavia (ca. 29 p.a.) and 122 in Serbia (ca. 15 p.a.). No official data were published on executions, but it is safe to assume that about two thirds of all death sentences were executed.\n\nThe 1959 reforms resulted in a less strict system of criminal justice. Number of capital offenses was reduced and capital punishment was abolished for property offenses. Hanging was abolished and the only legal mode of execution remained shooting, performed by a platoon of eight policemen, only half of whom had rifles loaded with live ammunition. Executions could not be performed publicly. From 1959 to 1991, there were, on average, two or three executions per year in Yugoslavia and about two in Serbia (over 70% of all death sentences in Yugoslavia were passed by courts in Serbia).\n\nFrom April 1992, Serbia was a part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which consisted of two federal units – Serbia and Montenegro. From 1991 to 2002, Serbian courts passed 19 death sentences, none of which had been executed. On 14 February 1992, Johan Drozdek was executed in Sombor. He was sentenced to death in 1988 for rape and murder of a six-year-old girl.\n\nIn 1826, poet Sima Milutinović Sarajlija (1791–1847) wrote to Prince Miloš Obrenović, advising him to abolish the death penalty. The Prince never received the letter and nothing came out of the poet’s project. During the drafting of the Penal Code in 1858, a law professor and a judge Jovan Filipović (1819–1876) proposed an abolition of capital punishment, arguing that it was unconstitutional under the then Serbian constitution. His proposal was rejected by a majority vote in the Drafting Committee. In January 1881, deputies of the People's Radical Party made two motions to completely abolish the death penalty in the Serbian Parliament, but both were rejected by a majority vote. A similar motion, although restricted to an abolition for political crimes only, was made in the Parliament in 1887 and was also rejected. A committee appointed to draft a new constitution for Serbia in 1888 held a debate on the death penalty, but the motion to abolish it was rejected. Another parliamentary debate was held in 1906, with the same result. Among those who spoke against capital punishment was the then minister of justice, Milenko Vesnić.\n\nIn the parliamentary debates on the draft constitution for the newly created Yugoslavia in 1921, the leftist parties (Communists and Republicans), as well as several smaller parties from Slovenia and Croatia, called for an abolition of the death penalty, but the majority decided to keep it in the constitution. In 1926, women’s organizations in Yugoslavia, headed by the Popular Union of Women (\"Narodni ženski savez\"), demanded abolition of capital punishment \"for women as well as for men\".\n\nMarxists scholars, gathered around the \"Praxis\" journal, proposed an abolition of the death penalty in 1963. In 1980, a Belgrade lawyer Srđa M. Popović submitted a petition to the Yugoslav authorities to abolish the death penalty. A Society Against the Death Penalty was founded in Belgrade in 1981, but the authorities refused to allow it. In 1983, more than a thousand Yugoslav citizens, mostly from Slovenia, signed a petition to the federal parliament calling for an abolition of capital punishment.\n\nConstitution of FR Yugoslavia (which consisted of Serbia and Montenegro), adopted on 25 April 1992, abolished capital punishment for federal crimes (including genocide, war crimes, political and military offenses), but the federal units kept the right to prescribe capital punishment for crimes under their jurisdiction (murder and robbery).\n\nOn 26 February 2002, the Serbian parliament amended Serbia's Penal Code by deleting from it all references to capital punishment. As was stressed in the parliamentary debate, a paramount motive for this abolition was the intention of the then FR Yugoslavia to join the Council of Europe. At the time of the abolition, there were 12 people in Serbia under the sentence of death. Their sentence was commuted to 40 years in prison.\n\nIn 2006, new Constitution of Serbia was adopted. Article 24 of the Constitution explicitly forbids enactment of capital punishment.\n\nIn the Fall of 2001, shortly before the Serbian abolition, a study of attitudes to the death penalty, based on a poll of 926 citizens, found the respondents to be equally divided: 43% were for the death penalty and 43% were against it, with 14% undecided. Subsequent polls, taken every year since 2007 on a representative sample of around 1,000 citizens, confirm this result. Those for and those against capital punishment remain equally divided with minor year-to-year variations, like a seesaw: one year a majority of a few per cent would be for, and the next against the death penalty (see Table below).\nOpinion polls, Serbia, 2002, 2007–2017 (“undecided” excluded)\nSource: SPSK Database\n"}
{"id": "3461608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3461608", "title": "Deep sleep therapy", "text": "Deep sleep therapy\n\nDeep sleep therapy (DST), also called prolonged sleep treatment or continuous narcosis, is a psychiatric treatment in which drugs are used to keep patients unconscious for a period of days or weeks.\n\nInduction of sleep for psychiatric purposes was first tried by Scottish psychiatrist Neil Macleod at the turn of the 20th century. He used bromide sleep in a few psychiatric patients, one of whom died. His method was adopted by some other physicians but soon abandoned, perhaps because it was considered too toxic or reckless. In 1915, Giuseppe Epifanio tried barbiturate-induced sleep therapy in a psychiatric clinic in Italy, but his reports made little impact. Electronarcosis was also developed and used for various psychiatric disorders, involving current passed through the brain to induce deep sleep.\n\nDeep sleep therapy was popularised in the 1920s by Swiss psychiatrist Jakob Klaesi, using a combination of two barbiturates marketed as Somnifen by the pharmaceutical company Roche. Klaesi's method became widely known and was used in some mental hospitals in the 1930s and 1940s. It was adopted and promoted by some leading psychiatrists in the 1950s and 1960s, such as William Sargant in the United Kingdom and by Donald Ewen Cameron, a North American psychiatrist of Scottish origin practising in Canada, some of whose research was funded by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) as part of their Project MKULTRA.\n\nSargant wrote in his standard textbook \"An introduction to physical methods of treatment in psychiatry\":\nMany patients unable to tolerate a long course of ECT, can do so when anxiety is relieved by narcosis ... What is so valuable is that they generally have no memory about the actual length of the treatment or the numbers of ECT used ... After 3 or 4 treatments they may ask for ECT to be discontinued because of an increasing dread of further treatments. Combining sleep with ECT avoids this ... All sorts of treatment can be given while the patient is kept sleeping, including a variety of drugs and ECT [which] together generally induce considerable memory loss for the period under narcosis. As a rule the patient does not know how long he has been asleep, or what treatment, even including ECT, he has been given. Under sleep ... one can now give many kinds of physical treatment, necessary, but often not easily tolerated. We may be seeing here a new exciting beginning in psychiatry and the possibility of a treatment era such as followed the introduction of anaesthesia in surgery.\n\nDeep sleep therapy was also practised (in combination with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and other therapies) by Harry Bailey between 1962 and 1979 in Pennant Hills, New South Wales, at the Chelmsford Private Hospital. As practised by Bailey, deep sleep therapy involved long periods of barbiturate-induced unconsciousness. It was prescribed for various conditions ranging from schizophrenia to depression to obesity, premenstrual stress syndrome and addiction.\n\nTwenty-six patients died at Chelmsford Private Hospital during the 1960s and 1970s. After the failure of the agencies of medical and criminal investigation to tackle complaints about Chelmsford, a series of articles in the early 1980s in the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" and television coverage on \"60 Minutes\" exposed the abuses at the hospital, including 24 deaths from the treatment. That forced the authorities to take action, and the Chelmsford Royal Commission was appointed. The Citizens Commission on Human Rights, founded by the Church of Scientology in 1969, was an advocate for victims; it received documents from the hospital, copied by a nurse, \"Rosa\".\n\nIn 1978, Sydney psychiatrist Brian Boettcher had convened a meeting of doctors working at Chelmsford and found there was little support for deep sleep therapy (Bailey did not attend). However, the treatment continued to be used into 1979. \n\nLegal action on behalf of former patients was pursued in New South Wales.\n\nIn her book \"First Half\", Toni Lamond described what it was like when she was admitted there in 1970. She had an addiction to prescription drugs and a friend told her about Bailey and he became her psychiatrist.\n\nI was given a semi-private room. On the way to it I saw several beds along the corridors with sleeping patients. The patient in the other bed in my room was also asleep. I thought nothing of it at the time. Although it was mid-morning, the stillness was eerie for a hospital that looked to be full to overflowing. I was given a handful of pills to take and the next thing I remember was Dr Bailey standing by the bed asking how I felt. I told him I'd had a good night's sleep. He laughed and informed me it was ten days later and, what's more, he had taken some weight off me. I was checked out of the hospital and this time noticed the other patients were still asleep or being taken to the bathroom while out on their feet.\n\nIn New South Wales in 2011, following the publication of a story in the \"Sydney Morning Herald\", the Minister for Police and Emergency Services, representing the Minister for Health, in answer to a parliamentary question on notice, made a statement on the use of court-ordered prolonged sedation with ECT:\nProlonged sedation is used on rare occasions with the administration of ECT where there has been a clinical indication to combine the two procedures, such as in complex cases when the risk to the patient and others from severe mental illness is extreme and other treatments have been unable to safely contain this risk. The primary purpose of the sedation is to keep the patient and staff safe from the patient's severe aggression and to control agitation. The primary purpose of the ECT is to treat the underlying mental illness. \nThe minister said that all three cases had positive outcomes and \"accepted procedures and clinical governance processes available at the time were followed\". The New South Wales Mental Health Review Tribunal has power to approve or prohibit administration of ECT treatment in respect to both voluntary and involuntary patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "23167842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23167842", "title": "Drug Metabolism Reviews", "text": "Drug Metabolism Reviews\n\nEstablished in 1972, Drug Metabolism Reviews is an academic journal that publishes review articles on all aspects of drug metabolism research. It is the official journal of the \"International Society for the Study of Xenobiotics\" (ISSX).\n\nThe journal is published by Informa. Jack A. Hinson, Professor and Director of the Division of Toxicology at University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, serves as its editor-in-chief.\n\nTopics covered include:\n\n\nThe journal publishes 4 issues per year in simultaneous print and online editions. All back-issues of the journal are available online and are hosted on the publisher's website.\n\nAccording to ISI it received an impact factor of 5.356 as reported in the 2014 \"Journal Citation Reports\" by Thomson Reuters, ranking it 16th out of 254 journals in the category “Pharmacology & Pharmacy”.\n\n"}
{"id": "19482983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19482983", "title": "Emergency medical services in Israel", "text": "Emergency medical services in Israel\n\nEmergency medical services in Israel are provided by the Magen David Adom (MDA) organization, supplemented in some areas by Hatzalah, and the Palestinian Red Crescent Society.\n\nMDA and United Hatzalah are the nationally recognized EMS organizations of the State of Israel.\nMDA consists of approx. 14,000 volunteers and 1850 employees, Paramedics and first responders. The organization operates 95 stations with a fleet of over 728 ambulances. The majority of the fleet consists of Basic Life Support (BLS) ambulances. These are supplemented by Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulances, mobile intensive care units (MICU) and a variety of first responders. In an unusual feature, armored ambulances are not uncommon nationwide. The system is highly dependent on volunteers, many of whom are from outside of Israel. As a recognized national aid society, according to the Geneva Conventions MDA may become an auxiliary arm of the Israeli Defence Force during wartime. \nMost major stations also include special units for responding to mass-casualty incidents like natural disasters or terrorist attacks. The system, for the most part, used to conform to the Franco-German (as opposed to the Anglo-American) model of EMS care, and the presence of physicians at high-acuity emergencies was not uncommon. As of 2015 MDA no longer employs physicians on its ALS/MICU ambulances, volunteer physicians may still be encountered in the field but employee physicians' main task is to provide on-line medical support through a special hot-line.\nUnited Hatzalah consists of 3,200 volunteers, that provide completely free services. The United Hatzalah volunteers utilize various vehicles, including ambucycles, e-bikes, ambuboats, and etc. to reach the patients in their most vital time of need. They are Israel's first on the scene, first responders. Across Israel, United Hatzalah has a response time of 3 minutes, and in Jerusalem a response time of 90 seconds. United Hatzalah is known not only for their fast response times, but also their inclusiveness. United Haztalah has hundreds of Arab, Christian and Druze volunteers, coming together for the sake of saving lives. United Hatzalah offers many services, including EMS response, the world's first Psychotrauma Unit which treats emotional injuries at the scene of traumatic incidents, and the Ten Kavod program, which provides free weekly medical care to at risk seniors, including survivors of the Holocaust.\nIn addition, emergency ambulance service is supplemented by a variety of private carriers who are tasked with interfacility transfers only.\n\nAir ambulance service was provided by Israeli Air Force MEDEVAC helicopters, however, in 2008 civil HEMS was introduced by Magen David Adom in partnership with a private company called Lahak Aviation Ltd, utilizing four German-made MBB Bo 105s staffed with MDA paramedics. Lahak deployed them throughout the country in order to improve response times in peripheral areas. Previous attempts to integrate independent helicopter service in the 1970s were unsuccessful due to high cost. Non-emergency and repatriation air ambulance service is normally provided by a variety of private charter carriers such as Arrow Aviation in Israel.\n\nMost of the fleet is made up of regular size vans staffed by \"medics\" (Hovesh) and \"advanced medics\" (Hovesh Bachir) as well as an additional Hovesh or a first responder, and advanced life support ambulances, staffed by paramedics; mobile intensive care units, staffed by paramedics, respond only to the most medically serious cases. The vehicles compare in general terms with American or European ambulances, however compliance with either the KKK 1822 or CEN 1789 standard is not compulsory. In addition, first responders will often proceed to calls in their own vehicles, and could be anything from a private car to a motor scooter.\n\nUnited Hatzalah was the first organization in Israel to create motorcycles equipped with life-saving equipment, Ambucycles. Ambucycles enable the EMT rider to beat traffic and congestion, allowing for United Hatzalah's quick 3 minute and less response time. Currently, United Hatzlah has a fleet of 500 Ambucycles.\n\nAs previously stated, the MDA uses a broad range of staff from First Responders to Paramedics, and both volunteers and paid staff. First responders typically receive 60 hours of training to prepare them for their roles. Paid employees are required to be certified at the Hovesh level, which requires approximately 170–200 hours of training. The next step is the Hovesh Bachir (EMT-I) which requires a further four weeks of training or a part-time 180 additional hours of training. Those certified at the Hovesh level (EMT-B) are permitted to operate AEDs and to start IVs.(AED) Paramedics may be trained over a period of 15 months, with nine months of didactic and hospital clinical time, and a six-month preceptorship with a qualified paramedic on a mobile intensive care unit ambulance. Increasingly, however, paramedics are choosing another option; obtaining a three-year B.EMS degree in Emergency Medicine from Ben Gurion University in Beer Sheva or Zefat Academic College in Zefat.\nIn an unusual move aimed at raising revenue to offset operating costs, MDA has begun to market its expertise at emergency care and system organization on an international level. They have achieved some success in this endeavour, assisting the nation of Chile with the development of a national EMS system.\n\nAmbulances are dispatched from regional dispatch centres, except during wars or other emergencies when service is provided from a national dispatch centre. This centre uses dispatch technologies such as Automatic Vehicle Locating (AVL) and decision-support software that are comparable with U.S. and European systems. The national emergency number for an ambulance in Israel is 101. This number is answered by MDA around the clock.\n\nAccording to 2011 figures, the average MDA ambulance response time in Israel is 9 minutes.\n\n"}
{"id": "42241898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42241898", "title": "Emotional symbiosis", "text": "Emotional symbiosis\n\nEmotional symbiosis is when an individual has the limited capacity to be aware of, respect, appreciate, and comprehend the subjectivity of another. This occurs in the phase of early development when a child is completely dependent, and both physically and emotionally closely bonded with their mother. Emotional symbiosis is a very common occurrence as it originates from the early childhood treatment of babies. People who have emotional symbiosis tend to put others down in order to make themselves feel as if they have all of the right answers. Emotional symbiosis is usually handed down through generations and can have a negative impact on one's family life.\n\nIn Erik Erikson's psychosocial theory, he believes that once babies are born, the first phase that they have to go through is figuring out whether the people that they are around are trustworthy or untrustworthy. Babies begin to trust the people that are around them by giving them their basic needs – care, food, and attention. Once infants have a bond with a person that has fulfilled their needs, they begin to put their trust into that individual.\n\nOnce infants begin to form into toddlers, they begin to test out their freedoms and the extent that they should go with their freedoms. For example, a baby may want to play with the scissors on the ground, but once a parent snatches those scissors away from them, they begin to realize what they are expected to touch and not to touch. Also, they feel shameful because they notice the unhappy expressions that are on their parent's faces.\n\nAs children began to grow into their early childhood phase, they begin to take charge of their actions and see how far they can go until someone stops these actions. A child may shred paper on the ground and laugh, but once they get caught, they will feel guilty because they know that they were not supposed to do that certain action. Again, in this phase, children try to find out the extent that they can go until someone stops them.\n\nAs a child begins to grow, they fully realize that they are children are expected to act in a certain type of manner. A question that children may ask themselves in this phase is, \"Can I make it in the world of people and things?\". Children typically began to realize how small they are in the world during this phase, and how much they are able to achieve on their own.\n\nIn this phase, peer influence really begins to take control of an adolescent's mind. Children began to wonder, \"where do I truly belong?\", and the way that most children find out who they really are is through peer influences, which can be positive influences or negative.\n\nWhen an individual is transforming into a young adult, a common question in their mind is, essentially, \"can I love?\". In this phase, an individual begins to wonder if there is someone for them in the world, if they will ever find love, or if love just isn't for them. Also, they wonder if it's better to be in a relationship, single, or just completely be alone.\n\nIn this stage, an individual wonders whether or not they want to contribute to the society. In Generativity, the individual would want to set an example for the generations to come, and leave their mark on society. On the other hand, a person who chooses Stagnation would care less for the society and the generations who are coming. People who are in favor of Stagnation are usually self-absorbed and would rather focus on their own well being.\n\nIn this final stage of life, people began to figure out whether they are mentally prepared to move onto the next stage of life, whatever they choose to believe in. The other alternative is to stay as strong as they possibly can to remain on Earth and make these last moments of life count. When an individual is in Despair, they focus on death more than the last moments that they have on Earth. On the other hand, a person who chooses to have ego integrity chooses to make the best of their life, and they have more confidence for what's ahead of them in the future.\n\nThis theory, created by Margaret Mahler, explains how infants begin to get self-absorbed in 3 phases. These phases are the normal autistic phase, normal symbiotic phase, and the separation-individuation phase.\n\nThis phase shows that infants are usually self-absorbed, because they spend most of them time sleeping and crying, and spending less time actually trying to figure out the world that they are living in and the people they are around.\n\nIn the normal symbiotic phase, infants grow a very close connection with themselves and their mother. This relationship is very essential to them, and they focus on this relationship more than they focus on the outside world. During this phase, the infant realizes that it is living in order to please its mother.\n\nThis is the phase where an infant begins to separate from its mother in order to find out its purpose in the world. This phase is divided into 3 subcategories that go further in depth into how infants begin to grow into an individual.\n\n – In this phase, infants begin to have a certain alertness about the outside world, and they're wanting to look at the world in a more enthusiastic way.\n\n – In this phase, usually, infants begin to crawl and look for ways to explore their surroundings.\n\n – In this phase, the infant wants to further explore the world, but wants to have the mother's attention throughout their exploration. If the mother doesn't pay attention to the child's enthusiasm to observe their surroundings, the infant may feel abandoned or anxious.\n\n\nGETTING THE LOVE YOU WANT: A GUIDE FOR COUPLES\n"}
{"id": "55695713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55695713", "title": "Enid Gordon Graham", "text": "Enid Gordon Graham\n\nEnid Gordon Graham (née Finley 1894-1974) was a leading founder of physiotherapy in Canada. She was named a Person of National Historic Significance in 2014.\n\nGraham was born Enid Gordon Finley in 1894 in Montreal, Quebec. She completed her education in the United States and Europe.\n\nGraham began her career in World War I when she worked alongside the Voluntary Aid Detachment as a physiotherapist for injured soldiers in Montreal. During the war, she created two courses at McGill University Faculty of Education and was asked to work in Toronto as a professor in 1917. While in Toronto, she worked at the Military School of Orthopaedic Surgery and Physiotherapy and co-created a diploma in physiotherapy at the University of Toronto with her second husband.\n\nOutside of education, Graham co-founded the Canadian Association of Massage and Remedial Gymnastics in 1920, which was later renamed to the Canadian Physiotherapy Association. During World War II, she established a military committee for the CPA and was named an honourary president in 1961.\n\nGraham was previously married with two children when her first husband died in 1922. She later married again in 1929 and had a child together.\n\nIn 1979, Graham was posthumously honoured by the Canadian Physiotherapy Association with the creation of the Enid Graham Memorial Lecture. In 2014, Graham was named a Person of National Historic Significance of Canada. and a memorial dedicated to her was unveiled at the University of Toronto's Hart House in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "23035042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23035042", "title": "Environmental impact of paint", "text": "Environmental impact of paint\n\nThe environmental impact of paint is diverse. Traditional painting materials and processes can have harmful effects on the environment, including those from the use of lead and other additives. Measures can be taken to reduce environmental impact, including accurately estimating paint quantities so waste is minimized, and use of environmentally preferred paints, coating, painting accessories, and techniques.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency guidelines and Green Star standards can be applied.\n\nVolatile organic compounds are gases emitted by various solids or liquids, many of which have short- and long-term adverse health effects. Solvents in traditional paints often contain high quantities of VOCs. Low VOC paints improve indoor air quality and reduce urban smog. The beneficial characteristics of such paints include low odor, clean air, and safer technology, as well as excellent durability and a washable finish.\n\nLow-VOC paint types include latex (water-based), recycled latex (water-based), acrylic, and milk paint.\n\nThe labels of paint cans can be checked for the following information:\n\n\nIn the US, items containing toxic ingredients have registration numbers with either the:\n\nAntifouling paint (or bottom paint) is used to protect the hulls of boats from fouling by marine organisms. Antifouling paint protects the surface from corrosion and prevents drag on the ship from any build-up of marine organisms. These paints have contained organotin compounds such as tributyltin, which are considered to be toxic chemicals with negative effects on humans and the environment. Tributyltin compounds are moderately to highly persistent organic pollutants that bioconcentrate up the marine predators' food chain. One common example is it leaching from marine paints into the aquatic environment, causing irreversible damage to the aquatic life. Tributyltin has also been linked to obesity in humans, as it triggers genes that cause the growth of fat cells.\n\nTributyltin is harmful to some marine organisms, including the dog whelk, it causes dog whelks to suffer from imposex; females develop male sexual characteristics such as a penis. This causes them to become infertile or even die. In severe cases, males can develop egg sacs.\n\nAlternatives include biomimetic antifouling coatings.\n\nHeavy metals are used in paints and have raised concerns due to their toxicity at high levels of exposure and since they build up in the food chain.\n\nLead paint contains lead as pigment. Lead is also added to paint to speed drying, increase durability, retain a fresh appearance, and resist moisture that causes corrosion. Paint with significant lead content is still used in industry and by the military. For example, leaded paint is sometimes used to paint roadways and parking lot lines. Lead, a poisonous metal, can damage nerve connections (especially in young children) and cause blood and brain disorders. Because of lead's low reactivity and solubility, lead poisoning usually only occurs in cases when it is dispersed, such as when sanding lead-based paint prior to repainting.\n\nPrimer paint containing hexavalent chromium is still widely used for aerospace and automobile refinishing applications. Zinc chromate has been used as a pigment for artists' paint, known as zinc yellow or yellow 36. It is highly toxic and now rarely used.\n\nAs a response to the environmental and health concerns, some paint manufacturers now offer environmentally friendly alternatives. Also, in some countries, paint recycling is carried out on surplus paints and resold.\n\nProducts like ECOBOND LBP are available to treat lead. Ecobond can chemically change lead to make it less leechable and, therefore, easier on the environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "37419934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37419934", "title": "Farm assurance in Scotland", "text": "Farm assurance in Scotland\n\nThe term farm assurance was first used in Scotland in the late 1980s to describe new certification schemes established by farmers, meat processors, consumers and supporting agencies, in response to emerging consumer concerns about food production. Organisations involved included the National Farmers Union of Scotland, Scottish Association of Meat Wholesalers, the Scottish Consumer Council, Scottish Enterprise, Highlands and Islands Development Board, the Meat and Livestock Commission and the Scottish Agricultural College. These schemes introduced independent, on-farm auditing of animal welfare, environmental care and staff competence. \n\nThe first farm assurance scheme was the Scottish Pig Industry Initiative, established in 1990, followed by Farm Assured Scotch Lamb and Scottish Quality Cereals. Food produced through these schemes carry Scotch and Scottish branding (e.g. Scotch Beef). Other farming sectors in Scotland quickly followed. Scottish farmed salmon producers established similar assurance schemes (Scottish Quality Salmon and Shetland Quality Salmon) during the same period, followed by farmed trout (Scottish Quality Trout). Farmers in England established their own (and sometimes UK-wide) farm assurance schemes in the second half of the 1990s, these eventually being encompassed within Assured Food Standards which operates the \"Red Tractor\" mark. The rest of Europe took up farm assurance in the late 1990s (e.g. EurepGap) with many other parts of the world adopting farm assurance in the early 2000s (e.g. GlobalGap). \n\nThe individuals who established farm assurance in Scotland included Maitland Mackie (SPII Chair), Jim Royan (FASL Chair), John Ross (NFUS President), John MacNaughton (SQBLA Chair), Alistair Donaldson (MLC Scotland Director), Brian Simpson (SQBLA Chief Executive), Ian Duncan Miller (livestock farmer), Alan Stevenson (SAMW), David Jack (cereal farmer), David Taylor (Scottish Enterprise), George Russell (Scottish Enterprise) and Peter Brown (HIDB then SPII & FASL Chief Executive).\n\nScottish Food Quality Certification is an independent company which monitors Scottish farm produce. Founded in 1995 it was the world's first farm and food certification business accredited to ISO Guide 65. By the late 1990s SFQC certified approximately 15,000 farms (circa 90% of Scottish farm output).\n\n"}
{"id": "18125031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18125031", "title": "Health in Finland", "text": "Health in Finland\n\nThe major causes of deaths in Finland are cardiovascular diseases, malignant tumors, dementia and alzheimers disease, respiratory diseases, alcohol related diseases and accidental poisoning by alcohol. In 2010 the leading causes of death among men aged 15 to 64 were alcohol related deaths, ischaemic heart disease, accident, suicides, lung cancer and cerbrovascular diseases. Among women the leading causes were breast cancer, alcohol related deaths, accidents, suicides, ischaemic heart disease and lung cancer.\n\nA new measure of expected human capital calculated for 195 countries from 1990 to 2016 and defined for each birth cohort as the expected years lived from age 20 to 64 years and adjusted for educational attainment, learning or education quality, and functional health status was published by the Lancet in September 2018. Finland had the highest level of expected human capital: 28·4 health, education, and learning-adjusted expected years lived between age 20 and 64 years. \n\nThe total annual alcohol consumption has risen from 7.6 litres (in 1985) to 10.0 litres of 100% alcohol equivalent per capita in 2010. There has been a small reduction in alcohol consumption in the recent years. Alcohol use is highest in the Northern Finland with 10,9 liters and lowest at the Åland Islands with 5,7 liters per person. Although the consumption is average to other western countries, binge drinking with especially teenagers and becoming intoxicated has remained as a characteristic of Finnish drinking habits. Finland has a national alcohol programme to reduce the long-term effects of alcohol. The World Health Organization has published a list of countries by alcohol consumption.\n\nSmoking among adults has shown a marked decline over the past thirty years in most OECD countries. Much of this decline also in Finland can be attributed to policies aimed at reducing tobacco consumption through public awareness campaigns, advertising bans and increased taxation. Smoking in Finland has reduced, and now the smoking rates among adults in Finland in 2009 stood at 18.6%, lower than the OECD average of 22.3%.\n\nDrug use is not a major public health problem in Finland. The most commonly used drug is cannabis. According to a study from 2008, the percentage of the population aged 15 to 69 who had at some point in their lives tried cannabis was 13%; 3% of the population had used cannabis within the previous 12 months.\n\nOverweight and obesity are common in Finland. Half of the adults are overweight, and every fifth adult is obese. The weight in men has increased since 1970’s, in women since 1980’s. Among the Nordic countries Finland ranks the highest in a percentage of adults who are overweight. In comparison to other European countries, Finland is slightly above the average but overweight is still more common in South Europe and Great Britain. Overweight among children and adolescents has also become widespread. The number of overweight 12- to 18-year-olds has nearly tripled in the past four decades. 10% of boys and 15% of girls in preschool were overweight in a follow-up from 2007 to 2009\n\nHIV/AIDS is not a major public health concern in Finland. The prevalence among adult population on 2009 was 0.1%. HIV/AIDS in Europe is much more common than in Finland, and the countries very near to Finland have much higher prevalence rates, due to increased travel HIV/AIDS rates in Finland may rise. It had the lowest rate of death from communicable diseases in Europe (9 per 100,000) in 2015.\n\nThe most significant public health problems are currently circulatory diseases, cancer, muscoloskeletal diseases and mental health problems. Emerging problems are obesity, chronic lung diseases and type 2 diabetes. 300 000 Finns are diagnosed with diabetes. Approximately 200 000 suffer from type 2 diabetes unknowingly and many more have prediabetes. The number of people with diabetes are estimated to double in 10 years. Most of the incidences could be prevented with healthy life styles, i.e. sufficient level of physical activity, obtaining normal weight and eating healthy.\n\nMajor causes of deaths in Finland are cardiovascular diseases, malignant tumors, dementia and alzheimers disease, respiratory diseases, alcohol related diseases and accidental poisoning by alcohol. In 2010 the leading causes of death among men aged 15 to 64 were alcohol related deaths, ischaemic heart disease, accident, suicides, lung cancer and cerbrovascular diseases. Among women the leading causes were breast cancer, alcohol related deaths, accidents, suicides, ischaemic heart disease and lung cancer.\n\nSuicide mortality in Finland has generally been one of the highest in Europe, but it has reduced to 18 per 100 000 population in\n2005. One reason for this may be the large national suicide prevention project which was carried out between 1986 and 1996. The World Health Organization has compiled a list of countries by suicide rate. There is a high level of education of mental health workers in Finland and several effective mental health programs have been conducted within at-risk groups\n\n"}
{"id": "26331881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26331881", "title": "Healthcare in Moldova", "text": "Healthcare in Moldova\n\nThe Moldovan state has a universal health care system. \n\nThe Republic of Moldova became independent in 1991. Since that time the country has become a parliamentary republic and has embarked on an ambitious programme of economic reform. Agriculture and food processing dominate the economy and the country is dependent on imports for its energy needs. Economic transition has caused great socioeconomic hardship in the country and the health status of the population has fallen. There has been a steep rise in the death rate and there has been large-scale labour migration – currently 40% of the working age population works abroad and remittances account for 30% of GDP.\n\nHealth care in Moldova known dynamic development in the past years, the hospitals being equipped with ultra-modern equipment, the new surgical blocks and general medical departments being built in Chisinau - capital city. The birth rate is at one and a half children per woman. Public expenditure on health was 4.2% of the GDP and private expenditure on health 3.2%. There are about 264 physicians per 100,000 people. Health expenditure was 138 US$ (PPP) per capita in 2004. In 2011, accordingly to World Bank, the health expenditures per capita was at about 223 US$.\n\nThe reform of health financing in the Republic of Moldova began in earnest in 2004 with the introduction of a mandatory health insurance (MHI) system. Since then, MHI has become a sustainable financing mechanism that has improved the technical and allocative efficiency of the system as well as overall transparency. This has helped to further consolidate the prioritization of primary care in the system, which has been bas ed on a family medicine model since the 1990s. Hospital stock in the country has been reduced since independence as the country inherited a Semashko health system with excessive infrastructure, but there is still room for efficiency gains, particularly through the consolidation of specialist services in the capital city. The rationalization of duplicated specialized services, therefore, remains a key challenge facing the Moldovan health system. Other challenges include health workforce shortages (particularly in rural areas) and improving equity in financing and access to care by reducing out of pocket (OOP) payments. OOP spending on health is dominated by the cost of pharmaceuticals and this is currently a core focus of reform efforts. \n\nThe Republic of Moldova has a double epidemiological burden as rates of both communicable and noncommunicable diseases have steadily increased since independence. The main causes of death in the Republic of Moldova are diseases of the circulatory system followed by cancer and diseases of the digestive system. Many of these deaths can be attributed to very heavy alcohol and tobacco consumption – 57.6% of total male mortality and 62.3% of female mortality in 2010 could be attributed to smoking-related causes while 18.8% of male mortality and 13.7% of female mortality were related to alcohol consumption. Though incidence of chronic liver disease and cirrhosis has decreased over the last five years, this remains a very significant overall cause of mortality in the Republic of Moldova (118.95 per population of 100 000 men and 89.82 per population of 100 000 women in 2010). \n\nThe economic and social crises have negatively influenced the population's mental health: a continuous increase in the incidence of mental health disorders has been registered (500.22 per 100 000 general population in 2005 and 576.13 per 100 000 general population in 2009). \n\nHowever, the key challenges in communicable disease control in the Republic of Moldova are tuberculosis (TB) and HIV/AIDS. Incidence of TB has been rising since 1990 and has more than doubled, reaching 182 per 100 000 population in 2010, the most dramatic increase being registered in children. The TB mortality rate increased from 16.9 per 100 000 people in 2000 to 23 in 2010, and rates in prisons are even much higher. \n\nMoldova is among the few countries in the world which reached its Millennium objective of reducing child mortality, registering a mortality rate of 13.4 to 1,000 live births in 2011 in children under 5 (compared to 23.3 in 2000). The most frequent causes of young children’s deaths in Moldova are accidents, intoxications, traumas, as well as diseases of the respiratory apparatus – causes which can be prevented if parents and caregivers would supervise children better. \n\nInfant mortality\nThe infant mortality rate has been falling steadily since the mid-1990s reaching 11.8 per 1000 live births in 2010, which is close to average for countries of the CIS (11.7 per 1000 live births in 2010), but still more than double the European Union average of 4.2 per 1000 live births in 2010. Maternal mortality levels have fluctuated widely, reaching a low of 16 per 100 000 births in 2006 and 21 maternal deaths per 100 000 live births in 2013. This is almost double the average for countries of the European Union, which was 6.1 in 2010. However, actual numbers are low (18 in 2010, 7 in 2009) and as there are only around 40 000 births annually each tragic death increases the maternal mortality rate substantially. \n\nChild immunization\nChild immunization levels have been consistently high in the Republic of Moldova for all vaccine-preventable diseases, and in 2010, 97.1% of children were immunized against measles, 97.9% of infants were vaccinated against TB, 97.4% against polio and 97.6% against hepatitis B. The combined vaccination\nfor diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus (DPT) covered 89.8% of infants in 2010, and vaccination against Haemophilus influenzae type b covered 61.2% of infants. Sexually transmitted infections sharply increased following independence, with syphilis showing one of the biggest increases (71.51 per 100 000 population in 2008). \n\nDespite the Republic of Moldova being the poorest country in the WHO European Region, life expectancy estimates are 2–5 years higher than similar estimates for considerably richer countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), namely 69.13 years in 2010. Mortality rates are particularly high for the working age population – and the reduction of life expectancy through death before 65 years of age was 12 years for men and 6.4 years for women in 2010. This has contributed to a significant and growing gender gap in life expectancy: 64.86 for males and 73.5 years for females in 2010. This is also reflected in disability-adjusted life expectancy (DALE), which was 58 years for men and 63 years for women in 2007. \n\nThe largest national emergency aid service is concentrated and is being in service within Chisinau - the capital region of Moldova. Nowadays in Chisinau operate 60 ambulance municipal cars, instead of 92 how is required and a douzen cars of private emergency service - Calmed. Everyday there are registered and served 800 emergency calls within Chisinau and more than 2000 emergency calls within the whole Moldova per day. The core of emergency system in Chisinau is National Scientific and Practical Centre for Emergency Medicine, having 620 beds, enrolling 3138 of personnel.\n\nhttp://www.euro.who.int/__data/assets/pdf_file/0015/120291/e81265.pdf\n\nhttps://www.gapminder.org/tools/#$state$time$value=2005;&marker$select@$geo=mda&trailStartTime=2005;;&axis_x$which=time&domainMin:null&domainMax:null&zoomedMin:null&zoomedMax:null&scaleType=time&spaceRef:null;&axis_y$which=underweight_children&domainMin:null&domainMax:null&zoomedMin:null&zoomedMax:null&spaceRef:null;;;&chart-type=bubbles"}
{"id": "56315577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56315577", "title": "Hearing protection device", "text": "Hearing protection device\n\nA hearing protection devices, also known as a HPD, is an ear protection device worn in or over the ears while exposed to hazardous noise to protect against noise-induced hearing loss. HPDs reduce (not eliminate) the level of the noise entering the ear. HPDs can also protect against other effects of noise exposure such as tinnitus and hyperacusis. There are many different types of HPDs available for use, including earmuffs, earplugs, electronic hearing protection devices, and semi-insert devices. \n\nEarmuff style hearing protection devices are designed to fit over the outer ear, or pinna. Earmuff HPDs typically consist of two ear cups and a head band. Ear cups are usually lined with a sound-absorbing material, such as foam. The cups should be fit so that the center of the ear canal aligns with the ear canal opening. The soft cushions seal around the pinna of the ears. The head band, centered at the top of the head, applies force/pressure to seal the ear cups over the ears. \n\nEarplug style hearing protection devices are designed to fit in the ear canal. Earplugs come in a variety of different subtypes.\n\nSome HPDs reduce the sound reaching the eardrum through a combination of electronic and structural components. Electronic HPDs are available in both earmuff and custom earplug styles. Electronic microphones, circuitry, and receivers perform active noise reduction, also known as noise-cancelling, in which a signal that is 180-degrees out-of-phase of the noise is presented, which in theory cancels the noise.\nSome electronic HPDs, known as Hearing Enhancement Protection Systems, provide hearing protection from high-level sounds while allowing transmission of other sounds like speech. Some also have the ability to amplify low-level sounds. This type may be beneficial for users who are in noisy environments, but still need access to lower level sounds. For example, soldiers who need to protect their hearing but also need to be able to identify enemy forces and communicate in noise, hunters who rely on detecting and localizing soft sounds of wildlife but still wish to protect their hearing from recreational firearm blasts, as well as users with pre-existing hearing loss who are in noisy environments may all benefit from Hearing Enhancement Protection Systems.\n\nElectronic HPDs require the use of batteries and are typically more expensive than non-electronic types. \n\nCanal caps are similar to earplugs in that they consists of soft tip that is inserted into the opening of the ear canal. Some styles are inserted slightly into the ear canal while others sit in place at the opening of the ear canal. In this case, the tips or caps are connected by a lightweight band which also serves to hold them in position.\n\nIn order to prevent irritation or infection of the ear, HPDs should be cleaned on a regular basis. Before using any HPD, it should be inspected for damage or dirt to ensure that it is safe to use. Single-use, disposable earplugs are available in addition to reusable options.\n\nMost reusable earplugs can be cleaned using mild soap and warm water between uses and should be replaced every 2-4 weeks. Earmuff cups and cushions should be cleaned regularly and be replaced if they become cracked or otherwise compromised. Ear cushions can last from 3-8 months depending on use. Use of a clean, protective case to store your HPDs when not in use is recommended to prevent damage or contamination.\n\nAny damage to a HPD can compromise its integrity, thus reducing its effectiveness. Damaged HPDs should not be used.\n\nUse of hearing protection devices is recommended by the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, audiologists and other hearing healthcare professionals when exposure to noise meets or exceeds 85 dB-A as an 8-hour time-weighted average. This level of noise may be encountered in both occupational and recreational settings. HPDs are recommended for use in settings where it is difficult to control the noise level, and the person exposed to the noise cannot be removed from the environment. \n\nThe amount of protection from noise can vary based on the physical fit of the device. Hearing protection devices with accurate placement (an airtight seal) and/or accurate insertion (deep into the ear canal) will provide the most attenuation of noise.\n\nIn occupational settings in the US, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations dictate whether employees are required to wear hearing protection devices or participate in a hearing conservation program. \n\nHearing protection device manufacturers are required by the EPA to label HPDs with a Noise Reduction Rating, or NRR. The NRR indicates the effectiveness of the HPD to reduce the level of noise, measured in decibels. The higher the NRR, the greater the reduction of noise. \n\nThe NRR is measured by manufacturers using American National Standards Institute (ANSI) specified procedures in a laboratory environment. The NRR tends to overestimate the amount of protection the HPDs provide in real-world conditions. These differences are most likely attributed to inaccurate insertion depth of earplugs. Because the actual amount of attenuation is typically less than the labeled NRR, the U.S. Department of Labor/OSHA suggest \"derating\" or reducing the NRR when using it to evaluate how much noise attenuation the user can expect from the HPD. The EPA proposed new procedures for measuring the NRR for hearing protection devices in 2009, which would yield NRRs closer to those obtained in real-world conditions. However, these proposed changes have yet to be implemented.\n\nSince NRRs can overestimate the attenuation of the HPD, procedures have been developed in order to determine the actual attenuation of the device as it is worn. These tests for checking attenuation values summarize the real-world attenuation in a personal attenuation rating (PAR). The PAR is unique to the HPD tested and the individual wearing the protection. When obtaining a PAR, it is recommended to test both ears individually as there may be asymmetry between ears. This asymmetry can be caused by anatomical differences between ears or improper fit of the HPD and could lead to a unilateral threshold shift. A PAR can be reported as C-weighted values, A-weighted values, or attenuation values for specific frequencies. The PAR can then be used to determine if the HPD is providing adequate attenuation so that an individual's noise exposure does not exceed the recommended limits set forth by regulatory agencies such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). \n\n"}
{"id": "21148921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21148921", "title": "Hypoplastic right heart syndrome", "text": "Hypoplastic right heart syndrome\n\nHypoplastic right heart syndrome is a congenital heart defect in which the right atrium and right ventricle are underdeveloped. This defect causes inadequate blood flow to the lungs and thus, a blue or cyanotic infant.\n\nCommon symptoms include a grayish-blue (cyanosis) coloration to the skin, lips, fingernails and other parts of the body. Other pronounced symptoms can be rapid/difficulty breathing, poor feeding, cold hands or feet, or being inactive and drowsy. \"In a baby with hypoplastic left heart syndrome, if the natural connections between the heart's left and right sides (foramen oval and ductus arteriosus) are allowed to close, he or she may go into shock.\" Signs of shock can include cool or clammy skin, a weak or rapid pulse, and dilated pupils.\nThe Notch-signaling pathway is involved in multiple processes during heart development, along with Wnt signaling.[6] Cardiomyocyte differentiation, patterning of the different cardiac regions, valve development, ventricular trabeculation, and outflow tract development have all been shown to depend on the activity of specific Notch-signaling elements.[6] The importance of Notch signaling in human disease is evident from the discovery that many mutations in components of this pathway are inherited in several genetic and acquired disorders, though one cannot acquire hypoplastic right heart syndrome.[6] Some of the mutations are thought to be on chromosome 2.[9] Other deletions are thought to be chromosomal arms 9q34 and 20p12, which contain NOTCH1 and JAG1 and deletion of band q22 or q24.[6] Wnt signaling also plays a role along with Notch 1,2 and JAG in the formation of cardiac tissues and heart development.[2] When there are mutations in the Notch and Wnt pathways, Notch and Wnt are either not signaled or inhibited.[2] These pathways have to signal proteins and other pathways, like Tbx2, 3 and 20, Bmp2, 10, and Hey1 and 2 which play a major role in different parts of the heart developing. When these proteins and other pathways aren’t signaled or are inhibited abnormalities form[6]\n\nWhen the right side of the heart is more underdeveloped than the left side, this is known as hypoplastic right heart syndrome. HRHS is known for the pulmonary atresia valves, the tricuspid valve, and the hypoplastic pulmonary artery fail to form properly. HRHS also causes the right ventricle to be a fair amount smaller than the left side.\nIn people with hypoplastic right heart syndrome, the heart is not able to adequately pump blood to the lungs. The result of this is an inadequate supply of oxygenated blood to be circulated to the body. The severity of underdevelopment varies for each individual. A special team of pediatric cardiologists is required to develop a treatment plan.\nA healthy heart has four valves, separated by flaps that open and close to control blood flow between the chambers. When the heart beats, oxygen-poor blood enters the right atrium. The blood then flows into the right ventricle, where it enters the pulmonary artery to travel to the lungs for oxygen. Oxygen-rich blood returns to the left atrium, where it then travels into the left ventricle. The left ventricle pushes the oxygenated blood into the aorta to be circulated to the rest of the body.\n\nThe heart is a mesoderm-derived organ; Mesoderm is the middle germ layer of an embryo, whose formation is regulated by various genes. Initially, the most important is expression of Nkx2.5, CR1, pitx2, anf and mhc2a, is responsible for differentiation of the types of cardiomyocytes to determine which part of the heart they go to.[5] In a later in differentiation, activation of hand1, hand2 and other genes was revealed to help in development. [5] Expression of these genes expression is regulated by various processes, including transcription and growth factors, as well as proteins like fibrillin, Wnt, BMP2, BMP 4, BMP5, BMP7, which aid in different heart development features like the valves and septum, and other substances, such as retinoid and folic acid.[5] \nCrucial steps in heart formation are development of the ventricles and atrium formation, as well as septation and valve formation. Any disturbances of such processes may lead to various congenital heart diseases and defects that could be initiated by various genetic, epigenetic or environmental factors. The most common heart malformations from genetic or epigenetic problems are: stenosis of the aorta and pulmonary trunk, which is a narrowing of the vessels, atrial and/or ventricular septal defect, tricuspid atresia, hypoplastic left and right heart. When you have hypoplastic right or left heart more than one of these problems occur together [5]\nThere is no cure for hypoplastic right heart syndrome. A three-stage surgical procedure is commonly used to treat the condition. The surgeries rearrange the blood flow within the heart and allow the left ventricles to do the work for the underdeveloped right side of the heart. The three surgeries are spread out over the patients first few years of life. The first procedure, usually either the Norwood procedure or BT shunt, is typically done within the first few days or weeks of life. The second procedure, called the Glenn procedure, is usually performed between four and twelve months of age. The last surgery, known as the Fontan procedure, is typically performed around the age of 18 months and older. These surgeries change the blood flow to the lungs so that there is always oxygenated blood. \nIn a stage 1 Norwood procedure for hypoplastic right heart, the main pulmonary artery is separated from the left and right portions of the pulmonary artery and joined with the upper portion of the aorta.[7] The proximal pulmonary artery is connected to the aortic arch, while the narrowed segment of the pulmonary trunk is repaired. An aortopulmonary shunt is created to connect the aorta to the main pulmonary artery to provide pulmonary blood flow to the lungs.[7] The Glen procedure disconnects the superior vena cava from the heart and connects it to the right pulmonary artery so deoxygenated blood from the upper body goes directly to the lungs.[10] The Fontan procedure, done usually after the patient is two years old, disconnects the inferior vena cava from the heart and connects it directly with the other pulmonary artery so that deoxygenated blood from the lower body then is sent directly to the lungs.[1]\n\nWith a series of operations or even a heart transplant, a newborn can be treated but not be cured. Young individuals who have undergone reconstructive surgery must refer to a cardiologist who is experienced in congenital heart diseases, \"Children with HLHS are at an increased level for developing endocarditis.\" Kids that have been diagnosed with HRHS must limit the physical activity they participate in to their own endurance level.\nHypoplastic right heart syndrome is more common than hypoplastic left heart syndrome with in the United States alone it occurs in 1 in 2,500 births as opposed to the latter that occurs in 1 in 4,300 births.\nThis rare anomaly requires prenatal diagnosis since it needs immediate and emergency treatment. Pregnant women whose pregnancy is complicated with this anomaly should be referred to a level 3 hospital with pediatric cardiology and pediatric cardiothoracic surgical team.[3]\n\nIt can be associated with aortic stenosis.\n"}
{"id": "28341761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28341761", "title": "Illegal drug trade in El Salvador", "text": "Illegal drug trade in El Salvador\n\nIllegal drug trade in El Salvador has included, according to some sources, trans-shipping of cocaine by the Nicaraguan Contras.\n\nFormer DEA agent Celerino Castillo alleged that during the 1980s Ilopango Airport in El Salvador was used by Nicaraguan Contras for drug smuggling flights with the knowledge and complicity of the CIA. These allegations were part of an investigation by the United States Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General. Castillo also testified before the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Between 1996 and 1998 the Central Intelligence Agency investigated and then published a report about its alleged involvement in cocaine sales in the US. This was prompted by the journalist Gary Webb's report in the \"San Jose Mercury News\" alleging that the CIA was behind the 1980s crack epidemic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34939121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34939121", "title": "Isshin-ji", "text": "Isshin-ji\n\nIsshin-ji is said to have been founded in 1185 by Hōnen. Tokugawa Ieyasu camped at the compound in 1614/15 during the Siege of Osaka Castle and became a patron of the temple after his victory. Kobori Enshū designed the temple's tea room or \"chashitsu\" in this period. The popular Kabuki actor Ichikawa Danjūrō VIII was buried in the grounds in 1854 and from that time large numbers of urns were deposited there. By the mid-1880s there were over fifty thousand and, in part due to limitations of space, in 1887 the head priest commissioned sculptors skilled in casting to create a statue of Amida, combining the ashes with resin. Bombing during the Pacific War destroyed the temple and the six statues completed by then.\n\nThe Nōkotsudō was the first structure to be rebuilt, in 1957, in order to house the images; this was followed by the Hondō in 1966, Guest Centre (Nissōden) in 1977, and the Nenbutsu dō in 1992. The main gate, with two bronze guardian statues (Kongōrikishi), was added in 1997, and was constructed with steel, reinforced concrete, and glass. The Sanzen Butsudō of 2002, designed to resemble a church, features a large mural of Amida, Kannon, and Seishi appearing to welcome the dying. It is claimed that this painting is the largest tempera mural in the world. The hall is used for services, weddings, and as a theatre for the local experimental troupe.\n\nThe phenomenon of (\"lit.\" 'bone Buddhas') may be traced to a four-metre polychrome statue of Jizō dating to 1700, formed by the priest Shingan (1647–1706) from crushed bones mixed with clay and dedicated at the temple of Daien-ji in Kanazawa, where it still stands. in Takamatsu and in Kyoto have since followed Isshin-ji's example. While the first six sculptures were lost in the war, a further seven have since been formed with collection underway for the fourteenth; all are of Amida:\n\nTreasures designated as Municipal Cultural Properties comprise an Edo-period picture scroll of temple legends, eight surviving documents relating to the temple's history, and an early eighteenth-century portrait of a temple priest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5918633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5918633", "title": "List of Permanent Representatives of New Zealand to the United Nations in Geneva", "text": "List of Permanent Representatives of New Zealand to the United Nations in Geneva\n\nThe Permanent Representative of New Zealand to the United Nations in Geneva is New Zealand's foremost diplomatic representative at the offices of the United Nations in Geneva, and in charge of New Zealand's diplomatic mission to the United Nations in Geneva.\n\nThe Permanent Delegation is located at New Zealand's consulate-general in Geneva. New Zealand has maintained a resident Permanent Representative to the UN in Geneva since 1961.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50951887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50951887", "title": "List of antimicrobial peptides in the female reproductive tract", "text": "List of antimicrobial peptides in the female reproductive tract\n\nAntimicrobial peptides are short peptides that possess antimicrobial properties. The female reproductive tract and its tissues produce antimicrobial peptides as part of the immune response. These peptides are able to fight pathogens and at the same time allow the maintenance of the microbiota that are part of the reproductive system in women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8268432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8268432", "title": "List of association footballers who died while playing", "text": "List of association footballers who died while playing\n\nThe following is a list of association footballers who died while playing a game, died directly from injuries sustained while playing, or died after being taken ill on the pitch. Following an increase in deaths, both during matches and training, the Federation of International Football Associations (FIFA) considered mandatory cardiac testing, already in place for years in some countries, such as Italy.\n\nBy 2009, FIFA player Pre-Competition Medical Assessment (PCMA) included family history, heart rhythm, sounds, and electrocardiogram (ECG) results. The Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) required extensive medical tests, including ECG and echocardiogram for players in the Europa League 2011–12. Constant monitoring has been advised.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30933214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30933214", "title": "List of burials at St. Martin's Cathedral, Bratislava", "text": "List of burials at St. Martin's Cathedral, Bratislava\n\nThis is a partial list of people buried at St. Martin's Cathedral in Bratislava, Slovakia. St. Martin's Cathedral is known especially for previously being the coronation church of the Kingdom of Hungary and since it was built over an old cemetery, it contains catacombs of unknown length and several crypts containing the sepulchres of many significant historical figures, up to six meters beneath the church.\n\nOver the centuries, the cathedral's sepulchres filled with many significant figures, such as ecclesiastic dignitaries, presidents of the historic Pozsony county as well as J. I. Bajza, the author of the first Slovak novel, but also with dozens of bishops, cannons, French priests fleeing the French revolution and many people outside the Catholic church.\n\nThis is a partial list of graves at St. Martin's Cathedral:\nThere is also the grave of Schomberg George - the Vice-Chancellor of Academia Istropolitana, Mikuláš II. Pálfi (Palffy) who died in 1606 in Červený Kameň, Pavol IV. Pálfi (Palffy) who died on November 26, 1653 (except his heart), a Palatine of Hungary, Ján III. Anton Pálfi (Palffy) who died in 1694 in Bratislava (except his heart), Štefan II. Pálfi (Palffy) who died on May 29, 1646, buried together with his mother and his brother Ján II. Pálfi (Palffy).\n\n"}
{"id": "3717915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3717915", "title": "Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health", "text": "Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health\n\nThe Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health (LRCBH), officially the Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, opened on May 21, 2010 in Las Vegas, Nevada that is operated by the Cleveland Clinic and was designed by the world-renowned architect Frank Gehry.\n\nKeep Memory Alive (also known as KMA) was founded by Larry Ruvo, senior managing partner of Southern Wines and Spirits, in memory of his father, Lou Ruvo, a victim of Alzheimer's Disease, together with his wife Camille, Mirage Resorts CEO Bobby Baldwin (who also lost his father to Alzheimer's Disease), and Bobby Baldwin's wife Donna. KMA supports the mission of the Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health and has held several star-studded galas, attended by celebrities and notables from around the world. It has become one of Las Vegas' most important charity initiatives and a key participant in the nation fight against Alzheimer's disease. Since its inception, the event has raised more than $20 million towards achieving its goal – the realization of the Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health. Funds committed by such supporters as the Spector Family Foundation, the Roland and Terri Sturm Foundation, Steinberg Diagnostics, the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino and America Online will be utilized for the construction and operation of this state-of-the-art facility. The Center is planned to become a national resource for the most current research and scientific information for the treatment of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington 's Diseases, Multiple Sclerosis and ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) as well as focusing on prevention, early detection and education.\n\nThe ceremonial groundbreaking of the Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health occurred on February 9, 2007. Dignitaries who attended the groundbreaking ceremonies for the $70 million project included founder Larry Ruvo, Frank Gehry, U.S. Senator Harry Reid and John Ensign; U.S. Representative Shelley Berkley, Jon Porter and Dean Heller, Gov. Jim Gibbons, Mayor Oscar Goodman, former Gov. Kenny Guinn, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Kevin Spacey, and John Cusack. The Center operates as an outpatient treatment and research facility in downtown Las Vegas on land deeded to Keep Memory Alive, the fund raising arm of LRCBH, by the City of Las Vegas as part of its Symphony Park. The Center is approximately and includes 13 examination rooms, offices for health care practitioners and researchers, a \"Museum of the Mind,\" and a community auditorium. The Center will also serve as the headquarters for Keep Memory Alive, the Las Vegas Alzheimer's Association and the Las Vegas Parkinson's Disease Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20425790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20425790", "title": "Lowermoor Water Treatment Works", "text": "Lowermoor Water Treatment Works\n\nThe Lowermoor Water Treatment Works supplies drinking water to the north Cornwall water distribution network. Raw water is obtained from the Crowdy Reservoir, which is 3/4 mile to the north east, and which is filled predominantly by run-off and drainage from surrounding moorland. The works were constructed in 1973.\n\nAt the time of the Camelford water pollution incident, water treatment was being carried out by South West Water.\n"}
{"id": "38030797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38030797", "title": "Maulana Abul Kalam Hyderabad Sujala Saravanthi scheme", "text": "Maulana Abul Kalam Hyderabad Sujala Saravanthi scheme\n\nThe Maulana Abul Kalam Hyderabad Sujala Saravanthi scheme is a drinking water project in Hyderabad on the Godavari River. It is expected to start by December 2013. It draws water through the Yellampalli project.\n\nThe total pipeline length is 186 km. It passes through the Karimnagar, Medak and Ranga Reddy districts at an expected cost of 3375 crores.\n"}
{"id": "25371700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25371700", "title": "Mental Health Act 2001", "text": "Mental Health Act 2001\n\nThe Mental Health Act 2001 is an Act of the Irish Parliament, the Oireachtas, which sets out the legal procedures for admissions and treatment in approved centres. It aims to protect the rights of everyone using the mental health services. It aims to ensure the patient's best interest is the most important aspect of mental health. The Act says that the patient has the right to receive good quality mental health care, and mental health services should be properly run and regulated. Under the act, mental health workers are obliged to ensure the patient is treated in a way that respects their rights. The Mental Health Act 2001 was enacted by the Oireachtas of Ireland on 8 July 2001. Most of the important provisions came into force on 1 November 2006. Some less important sections came into force in 2002.\n\nThe Act provides for the involuntary civil admission of patients on grounds of mental disorder. It also establishes the Mental Health Commission and the Inspectorate of Mental Health Services. It establishes three-person Mental Health Tribunals which review the detention of patients on a regular basis.A patient has the right to attend their own tribunal. It also outlines the voluntary admission policy. Patients can leave the hospital at any time if they are under voluntary status. If staff feel that they may be a harm to themselves or to others they can hold them for up to 24 hours, and they will be reviewed by two consultant psychiatrists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59066884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59066884", "title": "Ministry of Health &amp; Wellness", "text": "Ministry of Health &amp; Wellness\n\nThe Ministry of Health & Wellness is a ministry of the Government of Barbados. Its stated aim is to promote and manage health and ensure environmental concerns are considered in all aspects of national development.\n\nThe minister is Lt. Col. (Ret.) Jeffrey Bostic.\n\nThe ministry runs the Barbados Psychiatric Hospital, the Barbados Drug Service, the Children's Development Centre and the National Nutrition Centre.\n\nIt launched a Dental Health Promotion Project for Secondary School Students in November 2018 with support from the Massy Foundation which donated just under BDS$23 000 for a dental health education programme.\n\nIt is considering setting up an international nursing school on the island.\n"}
{"id": "13151756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13151756", "title": "National Institute of Virology", "text": "National Institute of Virology\n\nThe National Institute of Virology, Pune is an Indian virology research institute, and one of the Translational science cells part of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It was previously known as 'Virus Research Center' and was founded in collaboration with the Rockefeller Foundation. It has been designated as a WHO H5 reference Laboratory for SE Asia region \n\nThe Virus Research Center (VRC), Pune came into existence in 1952 under the joint auspices of the ICMR and the Rockefeller Foundation, as a part of the global programme of investigations on the arthropod-borne group of viruses. In view of its expanded scope and activities, the VRC was redesignated as the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in 1978.\n\nThe NIV is identified today as the WHO Collaborating Center for arboviruses reference and hemorrhagic fever reference and research. NIV is also the National Monitoring Center for Influenza, Japanese encephalitis, Rota, Measles and Hepatitis.\n\nThe National Institute of Virology is one of the major Institutes of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It was established at Pune, Maharashtra State in 1952 as Virus Research Centre (VRC) under the auspices of the ICMR and the Rockefeller Foundation (RF), USA. It was an outcome of the global programme of the RF for investigating the Arthropod Borne viruses. Since the studies on arboviruses and their arthropod vectors involve most of the basic principles and techniques of general virology, entomology and zoology, these viruses were also considered to be an ideal group, to begin with, for intensive training and research in virology. The RF withdrew its support in 1967 and since then the institute has been funded by the ICMR.\n\nThe institute was designated as one of the collaborating laboratories of the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1967 and it started functioning as the regional centre of the WHO for South-East Asia for arbovirus studies from 1969. Since 1974, it has been functioning as a WHO collaborating centre for arbovirus reference and research. In 1995 it has been redesignated as the WHO Collaborating Centre for Arbovirus and Haemorrhagic Fever Reference and Research and Rapid Diagnosis of Viral Diseases. NIV is also the National Centre for Hepatitis and Influenza. The field unit of NIV at Bangalore is one of the centers under National Polio Surveillance Program conducting surveillance of acute flaccid paralysis cases from Karnataka as a part of Global Polio Eradication Programme of the WHO South-East Asia region since 1997.\n\nThe institute conducts an M.Sc. in Virology and a PhD course, under the aegis of the University of Pune.\n\nResearch areas include Cell repository, Electron microscopy, Rickettsioses, Hepatitis, Influenza and related viruses, Clinical virology, Biochemistry, Virus registry, and Biostatistics. The research activities of the Institute are coordinated by a Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) consisting of eminent scientists.\n\nOn the recommendation of the SAC, the VRC acquired its status of national importance and was renamed as the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in 1978. Subsequently, studies on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), Rotavirus gastroenteritis, acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis, Rabies, Herpes sirnplex, Buffalo pox, Measles, and Poliomyelitis were also initiated.\n\nA Microbial Containment Complex (MCC) having P-3 biosafety levels for handling microorganisms of highly infectious nature is being established at Pashan, 11 km off the main laboratory at Pune. The laboratory will provide a National Containment facility for the safe handling of hazardous pathogens.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19803562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19803562", "title": "Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test", "text": "Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test\n\nPaced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT) is a neuropsychological test used to assess capacity and rate of information processing and sustained and divided attention. \n\nOriginally the test was known as the Paced Auditory Serial Addition Task (PASAT). The subjects are given in the version used as part of the Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite a number every 3 seconds and are asked to add the number they just heard with the number they heard before. This is a challenging task that involves working memory, attention and arithmetic capabilities. Versions with numbers presented every 2 seconds are also available. The original version presented the numbers every 2.4 seconds with 0.4 decrements for subsequent trials. The PASAT was originally developed for use in evaluating patients with head injury. The advantage in this population was supposed to be minimal practice effects. This test has been widely used in other conditions besides traumatic brain injury.\n\nIt has become widely used in the testing of patients with multiple sclerosis as patients with this disease frequently have an impaired performance on this test. The PASAT was included in the Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite as a cognitive measure. However, the use of the PASAT in clinical trials in MS it has shown to be problematic as there are significant practice effects over repeated measures; typically the effect of treatment is reflected by a larger improvement on the test compared to the control group.\n\nBrainmetric PASAT - http://brainmetric.com/products/pasat.htm\n"}
{"id": "20774354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20774354", "title": "Patricia K. Kuhl", "text": "Patricia K. Kuhl\n\nPatricia Katherine Kuhl is a Professor of Speech and Hearing Sciences and co-director of the Institute for Learning & Brain Sciences at the University of Washington. She specializes in language acquisition and the neural bases of language, and she has also conducted research on language development in autism and computer speech recognition. Kuhl currently serves as an associate editor for the journals \"Journal of the Acoustical Society of America\", \"Neuroscience\", and \"Developmental Science\".\n\nKuhl received a B.A. in speech science from St. Cloud State University in 1967, an M.A. in speech science from the University of Minnesota in 1971, and a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in speech science and psychology in 1973. She completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the Central Institute for the Deaf at Washington University in St. Louis in 1976. Since 1977, she has been employed as a professor of Speech and Hearing Sciences at the University of Washington, with adjunct appointments in the departments of Linguistics, Psychology, Otolaryngology, Neuroscience, and Education. She serves as a co-director of the UW Institute for Brain and Learning Sciences, an interdisciplinary scientific research center on human learning, with her husband, Andrew Meltzoff.\n\nKuhl is internationally recognized for her research on early language and brain development, and studies that show how young children learn. Kuhl’s work has played a major role in demonstrating how early exposure to language alters the brain. It has implications for critical periods in development, for bilingual education and reading readiness, for developmental disabilities involving language, and for research on computer understanding of speech.\n\nKuhl has proposed the Native Language Magnet/Neural Commitment Theory to account for the developmental change by which infants' ability to discriminate speech sounds becomes increasingly specific to their native language as they age. The model shows that infants use their computational abilities to \"crack\" the speech code and that infants' social skills play an important role in learning.\n\nKuhl was one of six scientists invited to the White House in 1997 to make a presentation at President and Mrs. Clinton's Conference on Early Learning and the Brain. In 2001, she was invited to make a presentation at President and Mrs. Bush’s White House Summit on Early Cognitive Development: Ready to Read, Ready to Learn.\n\nKuhl's work has been widely covered by the media. She has appeared in the Discovery television series \"The Baby Human\"; the NOVA series \"The Mind\"; \"The Power of Ideas\" on PBS; and \"The Secret Life of the Brain,\" also on PBS. She has discussed her research findings on early learning and the brain on The Today Show, Good Morning America, CBS Evening News, NBC Nightly News, NHK, CNN, and in The New York Times, Time, TED (conference), and Newsweek.\n\nKuhl is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Rodin Academy, and the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. She has also been elected a fellow in the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Psychological Association, the Cognitive Science Society, and the Association for Psychological Science.\n\nKuhl was awarded the Silver Medal of the Acoustical Society of America in 1997, the Kenneth Craik Research Award from Cambridge University in 2005, and the Gold Medal from the acoustics branch of the American Institute of Physics in 2008. She received the University of Washington's Faculty Lectureship Award in 1998, and she was awarded the University of Minnesota’s Outstanding Achievement Award in 2007.\n\nIn 2018 she received the APA Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions to Psychology from the American Psychological Association. \n\n"}
{"id": "38749606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38749606", "title": "Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record", "text": "Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record\n\nThe Personally Controlled Electronic Health Record (PCEHR) is a shared electronic health summary set up by the Australian government with implementation overseen by the National Electronic Health Transition Authority (NEHTA). The purpose of the PCEHR is to provide a secure electronic summary of people's medical history which will eventually include information such as current medications, adverse drug reactions, allergies and immunisation history in an easily accessible format. This PCEHR is stored in a network of connected systems with the ability to improve the sharing of information amongst health care providers to improve patient outcomes no matter where in Australia a patient presents for treatment. It is currently an opt-in system with a unique individual healthcare identifier (IHI) being assigned to participants and the option of masking and limiting information available for viewing controlled by the patient or a nominated representative.\n\nCurrently it is reported that on average, each Australian has 22 health system interactions annually, be that General practitioner (GP) visits, specialists, or prescriptions. All of these interactions are held in individual, separate, paper-based records making the entire health picture of an individual difficult to ascertain. It is also reported that up to 10% of hospital admissions are due to adverse drug events, 18% are due to medical errors relating to lack of adequate available patient information, and an estimated 25% of clinicians time is spent collecting information regarding the patient than actually treating them. These facts combined with the ageing Australian population, vast geographic expanse, and ever increasing population, have necessitated the implementation of the PCEHR in an effort to bring the medical record into the 21st century.\n\nAs part of the 2010/11 Australian federal budget the Hon. Nicola Roxon (Minister for Health and Aging) announced the PCEHR as a \"key building block of the National Health and Hospitals Network\". The system went live on 1 July 2012\n\nThe system is based on the XDS (Cross Enterprise Document Sharing) Profile published by Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE). However, the usual IHE Patient Management system (PIX/PDQ) has been replaced by the National Health Identity (HI) Service. In addition the usual authentication and security IHE profiles have been replaced by, or significantly modified to work with, existing infrastructure.\n\nHL7 CDA format is used to transfer information between different healthcare clinical systems whilst still allowing information to be accessed and viewed\n\nThe six GP Desktop Vendor Panel members are :-\n\n\nNational Authentication Service for Health Public Key Infrastructure is a certificate that authenticates healthcare professionals accessing the eHealth records system. These certificates can be loaded onto smart cards which are then used in combination with the healthcare professionals HPI-I to log on to patients who have a PCEHR using the patients IHI. This system also facilitates secure electronic communications with other healthcare provider organisations.\n\nThe PKI allows users to know:\n\nThese benefits allow users to securely and confidently relay patient information to trustworthy sources.\n\nFor the PKI to work there must be a Chain of Trust on your computer. This Chain of Trust is composed of three certificates, namely:\n\nThe PKI Certificates are based on the Australian Gatekeeper framework and met the International Organisation for Standardization (ISO) Health Informatics-Public Key Infrastructure technical specification (ISO/TS 17090).\n\nIt was budgeted to cost $466.7m but had surpassed this to $766m before the actual launch date with the final figure still to be calculated.\n\nIn contrast a recent study published by Deloitte projected the PCEHR to save approximately $11.5 billion over the 2010 to 2025 period. This consists of approximately $9.5 billion in net direct benefits to the Australian Government and $2.0 billion in net direct benefits to the private sector.\n\n 1233 healthcare organisations had registered for the PCEHR with NEHTA CEO Peter Fleming estimating 98% of GP-specific software was PCEHR compatible.\n\nAt the 7-month mark 56,761 patients had registered with the 12-month target at 500,000 patients. This target figure was still considered achievable according to the DoHA deputy secretary Rosemary Huxtable who had released this information to a Senate Estimates committee.\n\nOn 16 August 2012 the Hon. Tanya Plibersek, the then Minister for Health announced the \"Personally Controlled Electronic Health Records Act 2012 (PCEHR)\" The legislation was amended in late 2015 to be known as the \"My Health Records Act 2012\" (Cth)\n\nPatients can read in full everything that is added to their eHealth record. They may choose to include additional information in their own local clinical information system that is not included in the eHealth record. In any event, patients have a right under the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) to access the personal information that healthcare professionals hold about them.\n\nFrom November 2015 the \"My Health Records Act 2012\" (Cth) was amended to reflect that representatives of persons who require decision-making support related to the Act must support the person to make decisions, or make decisions on their behalf, reflecting the individual's \"will and preferences\". This reflects the principle that people with disability or varied capacity have an equal right to have their decisions respected. \n\n\"Healthcare Identifiers Act 2010\" This Act outlines how unique identifying numbers are allocated to each health provider and individuals as healthcare recipients to provide a way of ensuring that health information is correctly matched to the individual that received healthcare or the entity that provides healthcare. \n\n\"Healthcare Identifiers Regulations 2010\" regulates the collection, use and disclosure of healthcare record identifiers and information.\n\nThe PCEHR Act established the PCEHR Jurisdictional Advisory Committee (PCEHR JAC) to advise the System Operator on matters relating to the interests of the Commonwealth, States and Territories in the PCEHR system. The PCEHR JAC meets at least four times per year, or more frequently as agreed between the System Operator and the Chair.\nThe PCEHR JAC has nine members, a member to represent the Commonwealth and a member to represent each State and Territory.\n\nThe PCEHR Independent Advisory Council (PCEHR IAC) was established under the PCEHR Act to advise on the operation and participation in the PCEHR system, clinical, privacy and security matters relating to PCEHR system operations. The PCEHR IAC meets at least four times per year.\n\nPatients are able to opt into the PCEHR by providing personal details such as full name, date of birth, Medicare/Department of Veteran Affairs number, and sex.\nCurrently there are several mediums for consumers to register via:\n\nIf a consumer registers over the phone, in writing, or in person an identity verification code IVC is issued to enable access to the e-Health record online for the first time. After this first log, or post 30 days from issuance the IVC becomes obsolete. \nThere are four steps in the registration process:\n\nThe Healthcare Identifiers Service (HI Service) was established by the federal, state and territory governments to create unique identifiers for healthcare providers and individuals seeking healthcare. It was designed and implemented by Medicare Australia under the control of the NEHTA.\nThe HI Service allocates three types of Healthcare Identifiers:\n\n\nThe eHealth Practice Incentives Program (ePIP)aims to encourage GP's to adopt and embrace the latest technology and developments within the eHealth industry as they occur. \nGP's are only eligible for ePIP if they are already registered in the Practice Incentives Program (PIP) administered by the Australian Government Department of Human Services (Human Services) on behalf of the Department of Health and Ageing(DoHA). There are five further requirements for this incentive:\n\nThe benefits of participation in this incentive is practices can receive a maximum of $12,500 per quarter, based on $6.50 per Standardised Whole Patient Equivalent (SWPE) per year.\n\nThe System Operator is the entity that is responsible for creating and operating the PCEHR. Currently this position is held by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Ageing.\n\nThe System Operator during their duties must have regard to the advice and recommendations (if any) given by the PCEHR Jurisdictional Advisory Committee and the PCEHR Independent Advisory Council.\n\nMyMedicalRecords.com, a subsidiary of MMRGlobal has begun investigations about the PCEHR use of its intellectual property.\n\n"}
{"id": "10562714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10562714", "title": "Prescriptive authority for psychologists movement", "text": "Prescriptive authority for psychologists movement\n\nThe Prescriptive authority for psychologists (RxP) movement is a movement among certain psychologists to give prescriptive authority to psychologists with 2 years of postdoctoral training, or Continuing Education training in clinical psychopharmacology and related sciences, followed by 1 – 2 years of supervised prescribing, or a Certificate from the Department of Defense program, or the Board Certified Diploma from the Prescribing Psychologists Register (FICPP or FICPPM) to enable them, according to state law, to prescribe psychotropic medications to treat mental and emotional disorders. This approach is a non-traditional medical training focused on the specialized training to prescribe for mental health disorders by a psychologist. It includes rigorous didactics and supervised practicuums. Legislation pertaining to prescriptive authority for psychologists has been introduced over 180 times in over half of the United States. It has passed in five states, due largely to substantial lobbying effort by the American Psychological Association. Prior to RxP legislation and in states where it has not been passed, this role is played by psychiatrists, who possess a medical degree and thus the authority to prescribe medication (whose numbers are at a critical shortage), and by primary care physicians who can prescribe psychotropics but lack extensive training in psychotropic drugs and in diagnosing and treating psychological disorders. According to the American Psychological Association, the professional organization of psychologists, the movement is a reaction to the growing public need for mental health services, particularly in under-resourced areas where patients have little or no access to psychiatrists.\n\nCurrently, in states where RxP legislation has been passed, psychologists who seek prescriptive authority must possess a doctoral level degree (PhD/PsyD) and a license to practice independently, with five years of clinical experience working with patients as a health care provider, and complete a post-doctoral Master of Science degree or any of the training programs from the Department of Defense, the Prescribing Psychologists' Register Diplomate Certification, or a post-doctoral Master of Science in Clinical Psychopharmacology degree. A Preceptorship of one year of supervised work experience working directly with a licensed prescribing health professional for 100 patient supervision, makes the training a total of approximately 4 years. The medications the psychologist may then prescribe are limited to those indicated for mental and emotional health problems.\n\nPsychologists' involvement in pharmacotherapy exists on a continuum, with psychologists serving as prescribers, collaborators, and information providers in the medical decision-making process. Currently, psychologists may prescribe in five states, Iowa, Idaho, Illinois, New Mexico and Louisiana, as well as in the Public Health Service, the Indian Health Service, the U.S. military and Guam. When psychologists act as collaborators, they lack the authority to make the final decision to prescribe; however, they may assist in the process by recommending clinically desirable treatment effects, certain classes of medications, specific medications, dosages, or other aspects of the treatment regimen. Psychologists also provide information that may be relevant to the prescribing professional. Psychologists may express concerns about treatment, refer patients for medication consults, direct patients to referral or information sources, or discuss with patients how to address their concerns about medication with the prescriber.\n\nThe first bill seeking to authorize prescription privileges to psychologists was introduced in Hawaii in 1985 under Hawaii State Resolution 159. The bill allowed licensed psychologists in the state of Hawaii to administer and prescribe psychotropic medication for the treatment of nervous, mental, and organic brain disorders. A total of 88 prescriptive authority bills have been introduced in 21 jurisdictions since then.\n\nIn 1988, the U.S. Department of Defense approved a pilot project to train psychologists in issuing psychotropic medications \"under certain circumstances\". Guam became the first U.S. territory to approve RxP legislation in 1999. New Mexico became the first state to approve RxP legislation in 2002, and Louisiana followed in 2004. In 2014, Illinois became the third state to approve RxP legislation. In 2016 Iowa became the fourth state to grant prescriptive authority. In 2017 Idaho became the fifth state to grant prescriptive authority. Five other states have introduced RxP bills that are under discussion but have yet to be approved.\n\nThe State of New Mexico was the first to enact a Psychologists prescribing law, which is still in effect. Louisiana's legislature established medical psychology as a separate and distinct healthcare profession and transferred the regulation of their practice of medical psychology to the Louisiana State Board of Medical Examiners. At this time, the entire practice of psychology (for medical psychologist) including psychotherapy and psychological testing was also transferred to the Louisiana Board of Medical Examiners, effectively making Louisiana the only state in the U.S. where, for some psychologists, a medical board has authority over the regulation of the entire practice of psychology. Because of this, several national organizations, including the American Psychological Association and the Association of State and Provincial Psychology Boards have expressed concern over a practice of psychology being regulated by another profession (i.e., medicine). The Louisiana Psychological Association has strongly echoed such concerns. However, the Louisiana Academy of Medical Psychologists, a Political Action Committee representing medical psychologists in that state, strongly endorsed this change of regulation by another profession.\n\nIn December 2011, the American Psychological Association (APA) published a list of practice guidelines that apply to all prescribing activities, with some also applicable to collaborating and information providing activities. The list is categorized according to the area of psychologists' involvement in pharmacological issues (general, education, assessment, intervention and consultation). The following list summarizes the guidelines by section.\n\n\nThere are several core arguments put forth by RxP advocates, including the following:\n\nAccording to a survey assessing the views of psychology interns, residents, and psychologists published in the journal , significant support exists regarding the APA's prescriptive authority initiative. Proponents of the prescriptive authority initiative believe that it would improve the economic stability of the profession, provide better opportunities to underserved populations, and enhance psychologists' clinical skills through a better understanding of biopsychosocial interactions. Support for the prescriptive authority initiative also appears higher amongst those with PsyDs and early-career psychologists than those with PhDs and mid- and late-career psychologists. Demographically, females and Caucasians expressed more willingness to seek prescription privileges. Also, those who attended a clinical or counseling graduate program, received a PhD degree, and those employed in a university counseling center, medical school hospital, or independent practice tend to demonstrate higher levels of support for the initiative. In terms of training, an overwhelming majority of those surveyed believe training should begin at the graduate level, but prior to completion of a doctorate. Additionally, respondents preferred that training occur on a part-time basis, be completed within two to two and a half years and cost $12,000-$18,000.\n\nToday, evidence exists to indicate a continual and growing level of support for the American Psychological Association's prescriptive authority initiative. Such support reflects psychologists' willingness to open their minds to learning about psychotropic medications, incorporating pharmacological treatment with therapy, and adapting to the demands of a rapidly changing health care world.\n\nPrescriptive authority for psychologists has been controversial, even within the healthcare community.which has created entire organizations dedicated to objecting to prescriptive authority for clinical psychologists. Specifically, critics within the medical profession have expressed concern that they have no medical training. The current RxP model explicitly states that this movement includes no medical training, But this can be accomplished with an abbreviated master's degree in psychopharmacology, typically from a post-doctoral education program at a professional school. This would culminate in substantially fewer years and hours compared to Physicians assistants and nurse practitioners, who are granted full prescriptive authority, and can elect to specialize in psychiatry, and unlike the majority of psychologists.\n\nThe strongest opposition to date has come from current psychiatrists who point out that psychologists (even after attending additional training) lack the proper general medical knowledge obtained in medical school and residency necessary to effectively and safely manage patients' care (while exposing any patient to undue risk).\n\nSome psychologists opposing prescriptive authority fear caseload pressures that might press increasing numbers of psychologists to respond to patients' needs via only one treatment modality (pharmacology), as do many psychiatrists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15910867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15910867", "title": "Progeny testing", "text": "Progeny testing\n\nProgeny Testing is a test of the value for selective breeding of an individual's genotype by looking at the progeny produced by different matings.\n\nIt is used in the breeding of both plants and animals, but is most commercially important in animal breeding to determine the true breeding value of an animal esp. males which are used extensively for propagation of best germplasm. The extensive use of artificial insemination in domestic animals has helped in increasing the selection intensity on the male animals. This selection tool is usually used for characters that are sex-limited, expressed after death(meat characteristics) and usually with low heritability, for example milk or egg production in females. A bull for example cannot be assessed for milk production, however the performance of its female offsprings can be used to determine the use of the animal for future crosses. \nA progeny test is performed by mating the male with a number of females to produce many progenies in different environment and over a long time period involving different seasons to nullify the impact of season, management, environment in breeding value estimation. The average performance of the offspring is then found, giving a measure of the male's respective value to the breeder.\n\nIn animals the progeny testing could be conducted in a large herd or involving associated herds or in the field in farmers place. The field based progeny testing is highly required when the selected bulls are to be distributed in a large area, to many farmers in different environments. Conducting a field based progeny testing esp. in small holder production systems of Asia and Africa require huge resources both financial and infrastructural - a large AI network, robust and dynamic data collection and analysis system. Usually the breeding companies conduct progeny testing of their bulls so that they can be commercially promoted. But when the breeding organisations are Government controlled (eg.India), the onus of conducting the testing also lies with them if required genetic improvement is to be achieved.\n\n"}
{"id": "2895048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2895048", "title": "Pulled elbow", "text": "Pulled elbow\n\nA pulled elbow, also known as a radial head subluxation, is when the ligament that wraps around the radial head slips off. Often a child will hold their arm against their body with the elbow slightly bent. They will not move the arm as this results in pain. Touching the arm, without moving the elbow, is usually not painful.\nA pulled elbow typically results from a sudden pull on an extended arm. This may occur when lifting or swinging a child by the arms. The underlying mechanism involves slippage of the annular ligament off of the head of the radius followed by the ligament getting stuck between the radius and humerus. Diagnosis is often based on symptoms. Xrays may be done to rule out other problems.\nPrevention is by avoiding potential causes. Treatment is by reduction. Moving the forearm into a palms down position with straightening at the elbow appears to be more effective than moving it into a palms up position followed by bending at the elbow. Following a successful reduction the child should return to normal within a few minutes. A pulled elbow is common. It generally occurs in children between the ages of 1 and 4 years old, though it can happen up to 7 years old.\n\nSymptoms include:\n\nThis injury has also been reported in babies younger than six months and in older children up to the preteen years. There is a slight predilection for this injury to occur in girls and in the left arm. The classic mechanism of injury is longitudinal traction on the arm with the wrist in pronation, as occurs when the child is lifted up by the wrist. There is no support for the common assumption that a relatively small head of the radius as compared to the neck of the radius predisposes the young to this injury.\n\nThe distal attachment of the annular ligament covering the radial head is weaker in children than in adults, allowing it to be more easily torn. The older child will usually point to the dorsal aspect of the proximal forearm when asked where it hurts. This may mislead one to suspect a buckle fracture of the proximal radius. There is no tear in the soft tissue (probably due to the pliability of young connective tissues).\n\nThe forearm contains two bones: the radius and the ulna. These bones are attached to each other both at the proximal, or elbow, end and also at the distal, or wrist, end. Among other movements, the forearm is capable of pronation and supination, which is to say rotation about the long axis of the forearm. In this movement the ulna, which is connected to the humerus by a simple hinge-joint, remains stationary, while the radius rotates, carrying the wrist and hand with it. To allow this rotation, the proximal (elbow) end of the radius is held in proximity to the ulna by a ligament known as the annular ligament. This is a circular ligamentous structure within which the radius is free, with constraints existing elsewhere in the forearm, to rotate.The proximal end of the radius in young children is conical, with the wider end of the cone nearest the elbow. With the passage of time the shape of this bone changes, becoming more cylindrical but with the proximal end being widened.\n\nIf the forearm of a young child is pulled, it is possible for this traction to pull the radius into the annular ligament with enough force to cause it to be jammed therein. This causes significant pain, partial limitation of flexion/extension of the elbow and total loss of pronation/supination in the affected arm. The situation is rare in adults, or in older children, because the changing shape of the radius associated with growth prevents it.\n\nDiagnosis is often based on symptoms. Xrays may be done to rule out other problems.\n\nTo resolve the problem, the affected arm is moved in a way that causes the joint to move back into a normal position. The two main methods are hyperpronation and a combination of supination and flexion. Hyperpronation has a higher success rate and is less painful than a supination-flexion maneuver.\n\n"}
{"id": "42193567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42193567", "title": "Qadhi Saeed Almurooshid", "text": "Qadhi Saeed Almurooshid\n\nQadhi Saeed Almurooshid (Arabic:قاضي سعيد المروشد), born 16 January 1971, is an Emirati businessman and a former member of the Government of Dubai. He currently serves as a member of several Dubai boards and as chairman of Al Murooshid Investment LLC.\n\nAfter completing his formative education in the United Arab Emirates, Almurooshid continued his studies in the United States, where he graduated from Salem Teikyo University, West Virginia in 1994 with a bachelor's in business administration and marketing.\n\nFollowing his graduation, Almurooshid returned to Dubai where he took his first position in the public sector in the Department of Economic Development. Working within the compliance department he quickly rose to become the head of the newly established Commercial Protection Unit (CPU), and soon after, the head of the Corporate Service Centre. During his time with the CPU, Almurooshid worked closely with major corporations where he earned a reputation for his effective campaigning against issues such as piracy and counterfeit goods.\n\nWith a primary focus on supporting international companies and brands successfully establish themselves in the UAE; Almurooshid was part of the team that helped to cultivate a business friendly environment for corporations arriving in the region. Working not only among companies, but also sectors, Almurooshid was also key in establishing initiatives such as the Dubai Shopping Festival (DSF) in 1996 and Dubai Summer Surprises (DSS). In 1998 he was appointed as head of compliance, and became responsible for overseeing a team of seventy.\n\nAlmurooshid references his time with the economic department as an inspirational period of his development that helped to shape his on going career, and indeed, the department has been the foundry for many Emirati business figures and government officials.\n\nAlmurooshid was one of the first members of the Executive Council of Dubai, established under Law No.3 issued in 2003 by the royal decree of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Vice President of the United Arab Emirates and Ruler of Dubai, in order address the Emirate's security, public services and economic and social progress. Almurooshid served as a founding member and vice chairman of the Executive Council’s Social Committee, member of the Budgetary Committee and member of the Safety and Justice Committee from 2007 till 2010.\n\nAlmurooshid was officially appointed director general of the Dubai Health and Medical Services (DOHMS) on 9 March 2002. As director general, Almurooshid, focused his administration towards increasing the integration of technology into national medical services as well as ensuring sufficient medical care for all, in line with the vision of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and under the directive of His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Deputy Ruler of Dubai and President of DOHMS.\n\nEstablished in 2006, Almurooshid’s team opened the Dubai Cord Blood & Research Centre on 6 June 2006 making it the first and only centre of its kind in the United Arab Emirates. As a licensed government entity, the centre was established to support the ongoing development of stem cell research as well as developing a more substantial registry of stem cells for the country.\n\nSince taking the position as director general of DOHMS, Almurooshid led his team in the creation and development of Rashid Hospital Trauma Centre, the only fully integrated emergency department and regional facility dedicated to emergency and trauma care in the MENA region. With 130 beds, it operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and receives approximately 180,000 cases per annum, catering for a variety of acute emergencies such as medical, surgical, cardiac and neurology. The facility is also equipped with ten ambulance bays, two helipads, four state of the art resuscitation units, six operating theatres and the first STAT scanner in the region, and has an active emergency medicine residency training programme in support of the educational objectives of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum.\n\nIn June 2007, the issue of Law No.13 by the royal decree of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum transformed the DOHMS into the Dubai Health Authority (DHA). A separate decree thenselected Almurooshid as the most suitable candidate to again lead Dubai’s health care programme under the direction of His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and chairman of the Executive Council of the Government of Dubai, and was subsequently appointed as director general of the Dubai Health Authority.\n\nAlmurooshid’s tenure as director general emphasised the realisation of the vision of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum to provide primary health care for all citizens of the UAE. To this end, three primary healthcare centres, strategically placed to offer the maximum amount of coverage to their respective communities and costing approximately $19 million each were established in Nad Al Hammar, Al Mizhar and Al Barsha. Today, the DHA has 14 primary healthcare centres, or one centre for every 30,000 individuals in the Emirate.\n\nDiabetes is a widespread issue in the United Arab Emirates with an estimated 20% of the population suffering from the disease. In response to this, during his tenure as the director general of DOHMS, Almurooshid signed a memorandum of understanding with Joslin Diabetes Center and Harvard Medical Faculty Physicians, to work together to set up an advanced diabetes centre in the Latifa Hospital in Dubai.\n\nIn June 2012, Almurooshid then announced the launch of a project for a new, state-of-the-art facility at Dubai Diabetic Centre, offering two and a half times the capacity of the existing centre to 20,000 square feet. Located on 2 December St, additional features included a paediatric endocrinology service, offering a more ‘child friendly’ experience to children under the age of 18 who suffer from the disease.\n\nThe centre also provided extensive podiatry, which is recognised as a highly important aspect of diabetes management. Almurooshid also introduced a new training programme for ten primary health care physicians from the DHA, bolstering the authority’s capacity for diabetes care and management.\n\nConsidered by Almurooshid as one of the most important projects overseen by his administration, the Al Jalila Children’s Specialty Hospital was ordered by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum as a gift to the children of the UAE to celebrate his daughter Al Jalila’s first birthday on Tuesday 2 December 2008. The Dubai hospital covers a built up area of 76,500 square metres and is equipped with 200 beds and facilities such as a paediatric trauma, heart and transplant centres, coupled with surgical departments, outpatient facilities, dialysis equipment and oncology care.\nAl Jalila Hospital has been recognised as the first facility of its kind in the region, designed on the basis of extensive research and visits to globally renowned paediatric facilities in order to ensure that visiting children will be made to feel more at ease and less intimidated by their surroundings. The hospital is already the recipient of two awards, namely the Future Projects Health Award, presented at the World Architecture Festival in Barcelona (2009) and for Best Sustainable Hospital Projects at the 2011 Hospital Build Awards.\n\nOffering multi-disciplinary modalities, Almurooshid’s team successfully delivered the country’s first fully functional rehabilitation centre in August 2012, in line with the vision of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, to offer patients the option to fully recover post-surgery in country. The centre offers care to patients aged 14 years or above, and is also designed to cater for those with disabilities, sports injury and geriatric care. It was decided that the facility would be managed by the South Korea-based Bobath Memorial Hospital, a specialised medical centre with extensive experience in the field of rehabilitation. The facility has a capacity of 30 inpatients and between 80-120 outpatient cases per day.\n\nAlmurooshid led the joint committee between the Unified Ambulance Centre in Dubai that was created under Law No.13 of 2006 between DOHMS and the Dubai Police General Headquarters.\n\nBy royal decree, the Centre of Ambulance Services (CAS) was restructured under Law No. 17 of 2007, issued by His Highness Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Ruler of Dubai, replacing the Unified Ambulance Centre in Dubai. Almurooshid’s team were responsible for preparing, developing and applying the necessary policies that provided ambulance services not only in response to emergencies, but also providing patient mobility for the elderly, injured or disabled. The centre was also charged with operating a centralised control centre within the Emirate of Dubai. Today DCAS had a fleet of 177 ambulance vehicles, three mass casualty buses and 68 ground stations.\n\nDubai’s ambulatory services were restructured again by Almurooshid under the directive of Law No. 15 of 2010, issued by His Highness Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Ruler of Dubai, as Dubai Corporation for Ambulance Services (DCAS).\n\nAppointed directly by His Highness Sheikh Mohammed, Almurooshid became the first chairman of DCAS when it opened in May 2012, and was further inaugurated in the presence of His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum. Worth $12.25 million, the facility covers 270,000 square feet and includes training facilities designed specifically for Ambulance Services.\n\nIn response to orders from His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Dubai Health Authority, under the leadership of Almurooshid, had sought the accreditation from the Joint Commission International (JCI), and in March 2007 the Thalassaemia Centre (winner of the \"Outstanding Clinical Department in the Public Sector\" Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum Award for Medical Sciences in 2006), became the first public entity in the Middle East to receive such accreditation. The following year Rashid, Dubai and Al Wasl hospitals, were acknowledged with the same credentials.\n\nOne of the more remarkable acknowledgements from the JCI came in 2010 when the Airport Medical Centre, located at Terminal 3 of Dubai International Airport was given accreditation for ambulatory standards, making it the first airport clinic to receive such recognition. Almurooshid presented the award to His Highness Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, president of Dubai Aviation City Corporation and chairman of Emirates Airline.\n\nPart of the Joint Commission’s criteria for must be to maintain its standards, something that was adhered to under Almurooshid’s administration. Today a total of 27 institutions from both the public and private sector are accredited.\n\nLaunched on 1 July 2009, Enaya was launched under Almurooshid’s administration and was hailed as ‘by far one of the finest programmes developed in the Emirate of Dubai’. Providing a broad range of insurance, Enaya is an initiative designed for all staff based in the 39 government-owned departments as well as their immediate family members, covering over 90,000 people.\n\nProviding cover for both chronic and/or acute ailments, Enaya also covers preventative treatment, highlighting the Government’s commitment to providing health care for its people.\n\nAlmurooshid was also behind the launch of the Enaya ‘E-claims’, an initiative that enables electronic claiming for insurance, in conjunction with the Dubai Employee Health Programme. Supporting the 100,000 public sector employees who use Enaya, ‘E-claims’ was designed to help both regulate health insurance as well as provide a transparent, user friendly experience for its users.\n\nAs part of the government's on going initiatives to support technical innovation and integration, Almurooshid introduced H.I.S., (Health Information System), to Rashid Hospital in July 2010. Tracking both procedures, as well as the general requirements of the patients, H.I.S provides a totally electronic system for organising everything from physician order entry (including booking Radiological, laboratory, and physiotherapy requests), through to ordering prescriptions. The system was also successfully used to track patients through, as well as posting lab results and clinical information for critically ill patients.\n\nAs part of Rashid Hospital’s investment in Health Information System (H.I.S), Almurooshid was oversaw the introduction of the Picture Archiving Communication System (PACS), allowing for total digital convergence of all x-ray images allowing doctors unprecedented accessibility to patient information. Special work stations with high resolution monitors were also installed as part of the initiative offering detailed images of the operating rooms for the neurosurgical, orthopaedic-trauma and breast surgery teams, intensive care units and emergency department.\n\nUnder Almurooshid’s leadership, the DHA went under a massive overhaul with ‘e-health’ and ‘e-government’. In recognition for the department’s contribution towards improving healthcare in Dubai, the Dubai Health Authority was awarded Best Technology Project for its PACS at the Dubai Government Excellence Program, awarded in person by His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum.\n\nLaunched in the beginning of 2010, the DHA’s Electronic Medical Record Project (EMR), was launched allowing patients throughout the Emirate of Dubai to view a variety of up to date information about their health ranging from lab reports through to patient history.\n\nAlmurooshid presented the EMR to His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Vice President of the United Arab Emirates and Ruler of Dubai at the Arab Health Congress 2010.\n\nOfficially announced in August 2009, Almurooshid oversaw the establishment of the Health Regulation Department. Charged with multiple responsibilities, the core the HRD was to simplify the regulatory sector by managing and coordinating all resources within Dubai’s health sector. From monitoring healthcare facilities, to assessing professional performance the HRD created greater synergy for Dubai’s medical community. One of the most important initiatives introduced by Almurooshid’s administration was Sheryan; a centralised online licensing system designed for all healthcare professionals and facilities where all licensing and payments can be processed.\n\nAs part of His Highness’ vision for improved mobile medical facilities, Almurooshid’s team introduced three mass casualty ambulances into service, including a vehicle recognised by the Guinness World Records as the ‘Largest ambulance in the world’. Added to the DCAS fleet on 25 September 2009, and measuring 20.03 metres in length, it comes equipped woth an operating theatre, three intensive care units and eight immediate care units. Designed by Dr Martin von Bergh of Global Medical Consulting, it was built by Gebr. Heymann GmBH, outfitted by Cytomed Middle East, and has a total treatment and transport capacity for 123 patients and staff.\n\nIn February 2011 in the presence of Her Highness Princess Haya Bint Al Hussein, Almurooshid oversaw one of the DHA’s hospitals (Al Wasl) become recognised by UNICEF as a ‘Baby friendly hospital’.\n\nIn response to instructions issued by His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum and His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed Al Maktoum, Almurooshid initiated dialogue between both the public and privates sectors to coordinate a unified medical tourism initiative in 2012. Illustrating Dubai’s highly skilled professional medical personnel, including 4,750 doctors and physicians speaking over 40 languages, Almurooshid’s administration had significantly developed Dubai’s medical facilities over the period of a decade making it the ideal location, not just geographically, but also professionally.\n\nAs part of the DHA’s commitment to highlighting Dubai’s position as a destination for medical tourism, Almurooshid travelled to countries such as Turkey, Jordan and the United States, as well as hosting delegations from countries such as Brazil in order promote and spread awareness about the Emirate’s available facilities. Today, it is estimated that Dubai’s medical tourism market is worth over $1.2 billion per annum.\n\nAfter three years of campaigning Almurooshid successfully brought the FDI Dental Congress to Dubai in 2007. Acknowledged as the single largest gathering of dental professionals in the world, the event attracted 13,593 attendees and 344 exhibiting companies.\n\nRecognised as the largest World Diabetes Congress in IDF history, Almurooshid was chairman the Dubai’s successful bid which subsequently attracted 15,100 participants, a 20% increase on the previous IDF conference held in 2009 in Montreal. Inaugurated by His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Deputy Ruler of Dubai, Minister of Finance and president of Dubai Health Authority, the exhibition attracted organisations from over 160 countries and showcased a wide range of technologies related to the diagnosis and treatment of diabetes. During the congress Almurooshid also announced the expansion of the Dubai Diabetes Centre to include a paediatric endocrinologist that would specialise in providing care for children under the age of 18 with diabetic care and management, and increase in-patient capacity by 50%. The 2011 congress was also the first time an event of this kind was hosted in the Middle East.\n\nIn 2012 Almurooshid successfully secured the World Congress of Cardiology to be hosted in Dubai, beating competition from Singapore, Cape Town and Kyoto. The event attracted thousands of cardiologists and other healthcare professionals from over 100 countries who discussed a variety of issues in particular cardiovascular disease.\n\nIn 2012 Almurooshid officially opened the Hospital Build & Infrastructure Middle East conference, during which the UAE won five of the eight available awards including Best Hospital Design (Built), Best Sustainable Hospital Project and Best Physical Environment.\n\nLaunched in 1995, DUPHAT is recognised as the largest pharmaceutical and technology event in the Middle East, Almurooshid continuously sought to promote and engage the international community at this annual event hosted in Dubai. Providing a convergence point for the global industry, DUPHAT is held in Dubai annually under the patronage of His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum.\n\nAnnually attracting representatives from over 120 countries, the AEEDC Dubai has shown strong levels of growth in the past decade, attracting over 20,000 dentists every year. In Almurooshid’s own words, he described the 2010 event as \"a great opportunity for all dentists and decision makers in the private and public sectors, as it catered to the needs of all medical equipment and services displayed by major international companies.\"\n\nRecognised as the largest healthcare exhibition in the Middle East and Asia, Arab Health annually attracts the key decision makers and leaders from around the world over a four-day event hosted under at the Dubai International Convention Centre. During Almurooshid’s administration starting at DOHMS through to the end of his administration with the DHA, participation for this event increased from 13,000 attendees and 500 companies to 65,000 attendees and over 3000 exhibitors from over 60 countries.\n\nAlmurooshid served as the chairman of the board of trustees for the Noor Dubai Foundation from the day of its decree till November 2012. Founded in September 2008 by His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Vice President of the United Arab Emirates and Ruler of Dubai, the Noor Dubai Foundation was established with the aim of delivering preventive eye care services to one million people suffering from either blindness or impairment in the world.\nDuring Almurooshid’s tenure as chairman, for which he was directly appointed by His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the foundation signed a memorandum of understanding whereby the Dubai Police provided financial and logistic support to prevention of blindness programs in the UAE and abroad. He was also intrinsic in involving further support from other corporations, including Dubai Islamic Bank, through its foundation arm, Al Islami.\n\nOther initiatives instigated by Almurooshid include working with organisations such as Lions Clubs International, the world’s largest volunteer organisation with a global network of 1.3 million members in 202 countries, who within a period of six months working together managed to protect the sight of half a million people.\nAlmurooshid was also behind the collaboration with Orbis International, a nonprofit organization that works to prevent and treat blindness in partnerships with local health care organisations.\nNoor Dubai honoured the Lions Clubs and Orbis International in a ceremony attended by Almurooshid and Sheikh Majid Bin Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Chairman of Dubai Culture and Arts Authority and Noor Dubai.\nBy the end of 2012, the programme provided over six million individuals with services that either prevent blindness or enable healthy vision.\n\nAlmurooshid was a founding committee member of Dubai 2020, an initiative to explore Dubai’s potential to host the World Expo, Olympics and Paralympics. In late November 2013, Dubai was confirmed as the host for the World Expo in 2020, beating off competition from São Paulo, Ekaterinburg and Izmir. As well as being the first World Expo to be hosted in the Middle East, it is estimated that the victory will create approximately 277,000 job opportunities between 2013 and 2020.\n\nAlmurooshid served as the vice-chairman of the board of trustees, Sheikh Hamdan bin Rashid Al Maktoum Medical Award for Medical Sciences from 2007 to 2012.\n\nAlmurooshid served as a member of the board of trustees for the Dubai School of Government in 2012.\n\nAlmurooshid served as a member of the board of Dubai Healthcare City Authority, under the chair of Her Royal Highness Princess Haya bint Al Hussein between January 2011 and November 2012. Noteworthy accomplishments include establishing a mutual recognition of medical licences between DHCA and the Dubai Health Authority, offering greater convenience for the estimated 25,000 healthcare professionals working in the Emirate.\n\nEstablished in 1996, Almurooshid is a founding member of the Dubai Cultural Sports Club football club and was appointed general secretary assistant upon its establishment.\n\nRecognised as the oldest club in the UAE (est. 1945), Almurooshid served as chairman of the board of Al Nasr SC for the UAE Pro-league team between 2006 and 2009. In addition to the football side, Al Nasr trains athletes in thirteen different sporting disciplines. Almurooshid still retains his position as a member of the board.\n\nAlmurooshid has been a keen investor in a wide range of enterprises, including being a founding investor for some of the UAE’s more notable companies including Mawarid Finance, Emaar Industries & Investments and Al Salam Bank Bahrain.\n\nSince retiring from his government positions, Almurooshid continues to support the UAE’s national vision through the creation of local partnerships with companies that can offer significant value to the country’s on going development. His notable current partnerships include those with Kele Construction, Bilfinger Sielv, Fairmount Holidays & Travel, Inara Tech and RCS Sport - Media & Events JLT.\n\nAlmurooshid continues to serve as a board member with Union Coop, a society established by Ministerial Resolution in 1982 to establish and manage hypermarkets and shopping malls in Dubai. Assisting to support and improve the social and economic conditions of its members, Union Coop has ten branches spread across the Emirate of Dubai. In February 2014, the society was honoured by Dubai Municipality for its implementation of e-service for importing and exporting foodstuff.\n\nAlmurooshid is chairman of Al Murooshid Investment LLC, a company that specialises in forging partnerships with international businesses from different sectors who are looking to enter and operate in the GCC.\n"}
{"id": "10637965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10637965", "title": "Radboud University Medical Center", "text": "Radboud University Medical Center\n\nThe Radboud University Medical Center (Dutch: \"Radboudumc\"), is the teaching hospital affiliated with the Radboud University Nijmegen, in the city of Nijmegen in the eastern-central part of the Netherlands.\n\nThe Radboud University Medical Center was founded in 1956. It changed its name to \"UMC St Radboud\" and transformed to a complete new organization in 1999 by a merger of the \"Academisch Ziekenhuis Nijmegen\" (AZN) (Academic Hospital of Nijmegen) and the medical faculty of the \"Katholieke Universiteit Nijmegen\" (Catholic University of Nijmegen), now the Radboud University Nijmegen. Thus, it is a semi-independent medical university and hospital, which is not directly linked to the Radboud University. In 2013 the hospital changed its name to \"Radboudumc\" in Dutch and \"Radboud University Medical Center\" in English. \nIt is one of the largest and leading hospitals of The Netherlands, providing supraregional tertiary care for residents of a large part of the eastern section of The Netherlands.\n\nThe medical center has about 1,000 beds, employs about 10,000 employees, and offers educational services to about 3,000 students in the following academic courses:\n\nThe medical center's infrastructure consists of several technology centers and three research institutes:\n\nThe scientists perform cross-disciplinary research regarding 18 clinically relevant research themes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "559764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559764", "title": "Roentgen equivalent man", "text": "Roentgen equivalent man\n\nThe roentgen equivalent man (or rem) is an older, CGS unit of equivalent dose, effective dose, and committed dose which are measures of the health effect of low levels of ionizing radiation on the human body. \n\nQuantities measured in rem are designed to represent the stochastic biological risk of ionizing radiation; primarily radiation-induced cancer. These quantities are derived from absorbed dose, which in the CGS system has the unit rad which is also an older unit. There is no universally applicable conversion constant from rad to rem; the conversion depends on relative biological effectiveness (RBE).\n\nThe rem has been defined since 1976 as equal to 0.01 sievert, which is the more commonly used SI unit outside the United States. A number of earlier definitions going back to 1945 were derived from the roentgen unit, which was named after Wilhelm Röntgen, a German scientist who discovered X-rays. The acronym is now a misleading historical artifact, since 1 roentgen actually deposits about 0.96 rem in soft biological tissue, when all weighting factors equal unity. Older units of rem following other definitions are up to 17% smaller than the modern rem.\n\nOne rem carries with it a 0.05% chance of eventually developing cancer. Doses greater than 100 rem received over a short time period are likely to cause acute radiation syndrome (ARS), possibly leading to death within weeks if left untreated. Note that the quantities that are measured in rem were not designed to be correlated to ARS symptoms. The absorbed dose, measured in rad, is the best indicator of ARS.\n\nA rem is a large dose of radiation, so the millirem (mrem), which is one thousandth of a rem, is often used for the dosages commonly encountered, such as the amount of radiation received from medical x-rays and background sources.\n\nThe rem and millirem are CGS units in widest use among the American public, industry, and government. SI units are the norm outside of the United States, and they are increasingly encountered within the US in academic, scientific, and engineering environments.\n\nThe conventional units for dose rate is mrem/h. Regulatory limits and chronic doses are often given in units of mrem/yr or rem/yr, where they are understood to represent the total amount of radiation allowed (or received) over the entire year. In many occupational scenarios, the hourly dose rate might fluctuate to levels thousands of times higher for a brief period of time, without infringing on the annual total exposure limits. There is no exact conversion from hours to years because of leap years, but approximate conversions are:\nThe ICRP once adopted fixed conversion for occupational exposure, although these have not appeared in recent documents:\nTherefore, for occupation exposures of that time period,\n\nThe US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) strongly discourages Americans from expressing doses in rem, in favor of recommending the SI unit. The NIST recommends defining the rem in relation to the SI in every document where this unit is used. For US industries and US firms that do not require the sole use of SI, however, the unit rem is often preferred.\n\nIonizing radiation has deterministic and stochastic effects on human health. The deterministic effects that can lead to acute radiation syndrome only occur in the case of high doses (> ~10 rad or > 0.1 Gy) and high dose rates (> ~10 rad/h or > 0.1 Gy/h). A model of deterministic risk would require different weighting factors (not yet established) than are used in the calculation of equivalent and effective dose. To avoid confusion, deterministic effects are normally compared to absorbed dose in units of rad, not rem.\n\nStochastic effects are those that occur randomly, such as radiation-induced cancer. The consensus of the nuclear industry, nuclear regulators, and governments, is that the incidence of cancers due to ionizing radiation can be modeled as increasing linearly with effective dose at a rate of 0.055% per rem (5.5%/Sv). Individual studies, alternate models, and earlier versions of the industry consensus have produced other risk estimates scattered around this consensus model. There is general agreement that the risk is much higher for infants and fetuses than adults, higher for the middle-aged than for seniors, and higher for women than for men, though there is no quantitative consensus about this. There is much less data, and much more controversy, regarding the possibility of cardiac and teratogenic effects, and the modelling of internal dose.\n\nThe International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) recommends limiting artificial irradiation of the public to an average of 100 mrem (1 mSv) of effective dose per year, not including medical and occupational exposures. For comparison, radiation levels inside the US United States Capitol are 85 mrem/yr (0.85 mSv/yr), close to the regulatory limit, because of the uranium content of the granite structure. According to the ICRP model, someone who spent 20 years inside the capitol building would have an extra one in a thousand chance of getting cancer, over and above any other existing risk. (20 yr × 85 mrem/yr × 0.001 rem/mrem × 0.055%/rem = ~0.1%) That \"existing risk\" is much higher; an average person would have a one in ten chance of getting cancer during this same 20-year period, even without any exposure to artificial radiation.\n\nThe concept of the rem first appeared in the literature in 1945, and was given its first definition in 1947. The definition was refined in 1950 as \"that dose of any ionizing radiation which produces a relevant biological effect equal to that produced by one roentgen of high-voltage x-radiation.\" Using data available at the time, the rem was variously evaluated as 83, 93, or 95 erg/gram. Along with the introduction of the rad in 1953, the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) decided to \"continue\" the use of the rem. The US National Committee on Radiation Protection and Measurements noted in 1954 that this effectively implied an increase in the magnitude of the rem to match the rad (100 erg/gram). The ICRP officially adopted the rem as the unit of equivalent dose in 1962 to measure the way different types of radiation distribute energy in tissue, and began recommending values of relative biological effectiveness (RBE) for various types of radiation. In practice, the unit of rem was used to denote that an RBE factor had been applied to a number which was originally in units of rad or roentgen. In 1977 the rem was redefined by the ICRP as 0.01 sievert or 0.01 J/kg, with the intention that the sievert would come to replace the rem.\n\nThe International Committee for Weights and Measures (CIPM) adopted the sievert in 1980, but never accepted the use of the rem. The US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) recognizes that this unit is outside the SI, but temporarily accepts its use in the US with the SI. The rem remains in widespread use as an industry standard in the US. The United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission still permits the use of the units curie, rad and rem alongside SI units.\n\nThe following table shows radiation quantities in SI and non-SI units:\n"}
{"id": "1431534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1431534", "title": "Ryan (film)", "text": "Ryan (film)\n\nRyan is a 2004 animated documentary created and directed by Chris Landreth about Canadian animator Ryan Larkin, who had lived on skid row in Montreal as a result of drug and alcohol abuse. Landreth's chance meeting with Larkin in 2000 inspired him to develop the film, which took 18 months to complete. It was co-produced by Copper Heart Entertainment and the National Film Board of Canada (NFB), and its creation and development is the subject of the NFB documentary \"Alter Egos\". The film incorporated material from archive sources, particularly Larkin's works at the NFB.\n\nThe film is an animated interpretation of an interview of Larkin by Landreth, and includes interviews with Larkin's previous partner and coworkers, as well as Landreth. Development of the characters was partially inspired by the plastinated human bodies of the Body Worlds exhibition. The distorted and disembodied appearance of the film's characters is based on Landreth's use of psychological realism to portray emotion visually, and expression is modelled by use of straight ahead animation. The animation was created at the Animation Arts Centre of Seneca College in Toronto. Some of the animation was based on \"cords\", mathematical equations modelling the physical properties of curves and used to animate filamentous objects in the film. The visual effects of the film has been described by reviewers and film critics as difficult to describe and having a distinctive visceral style.\n\n\"Ryan\" won over 60 awards, including the 2004 Academy Award for Animated Short Film and the 25th Genie Award for Best Animated Short. It was presented and won awards at many film festivals, including Cannes Film Festival, San Francisco International Film Festival, and Worldwide Short Film Festival. It also won Jury awards at SIGGRAPH and the Annecy International Animated Film Festival, and honourable mention at the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nAs a result of the film's popularity, Larkin became famous once again and received requests for his animation services. He began work with Laurie Gordon on an animated film \"Spare Change\" about his panhandling on the streets of Montreal, and created several bumpers for MTV Canada. Larkin died in 2007, and \"Spare Change\" was completed by Gordon and released in 2008. Landreth received offers to produce feature films, but instead chose to continue producing animated short films, releasing \"The Spine\" in 2009.\n\nLarkin was a Canadian animator who had worked at the National Film Board of Canada in the 1960s and 1970s, producing several celebrated works. Best known for his film \"Walking\" composed of animated vignettes of people walking, Larkin was considered one of the best animators of his generation. In 1969, the \"Montreal Gazette\" referred to him as the \"Frank Zappa or George Harrison of animation\". In the 1970s, unable to cope with his success and the pressure to develop more works, and facing a creative block, he became addicted to alcohol and cocaine. By 1978, he was broke and no longer working for the NFB. He worked as a commercial animator and painter for the next ten years, but by the late 1980s he was living in the streets of Montreal. He continued to draw and sculpt.\n\nChris Robinson first learned of Larkin in 2000 after his name was mentioned in a discussion by staff member Lesya Fesiak, who had heard about Larkin panhandling in Montreal from a friend. Fesiak and Robinson, who is the director of the Ottawa International Animation Festival, drove to Montreal to meet Larkin in June 2000, where they found him panhandling near Schwartz's on Saint Laurent Boulevard. At the time, he resided at the Old Brewery Mission and spent his days \"wandering around town\" visiting art galleries, museums, and libraries. He always had a notepad with him for drawing. They offered him dinner at a nearby bar, where he recounted his life story, which Robinson found \"comical and heartbreaking, pathetic and inspiring\". Before leaving, Robinson invited Larkin to Ottawa to watch a few entries for that year's film festival.\n\nLandreth met Larkin at the suggestion of Robinson. Landreth had been taking part in the festival's selection committee when a fourth member of the committee dropped out. Robinson asked Larkin to take the missing committee member's place, and personally drove him to Ottawa in July 2000. Committee members Landreth, Pjotr Sapegin, and Andrei Svislotksi, in addition to Larkin, reviewed the commissioned films competition entries. Nobody on the selection committee knew of Larkin's identity at the time, and Landreth found his presence on the committee to be odd. Committee members were only told about Larkin's identity at the end of the viewings, when they screened each other's films. Larkin was last, showing \"Walking\", \"Street Musique\", and \"Syrinx\". Landreth later described his surprise, and stated \"I looked at him and wondered, how did this happen?\"\n\nLandreth, at the time employed by Alias, was \"immediately inspired\" to create a film based on Larkin's life, but waited a few months before acting on it. He met Larkin again in September during the Ottawa International Animation Festival, and asked him if he would agree to be the subject of a film. Larkin agreed, and on 13 February 2001, Landreth decided to make the film.\n\nLandreth spent several years developing the film. Instead of first creating a storyboard on which the animation would be based, he conceived the theme after interviews with Larkin. After the screenplay was developed, the production followed a more typical process of creating a storyboard, character modelling, scene design, animation, and post-production.\n\nIn February 2001, Landreth contacted producer Steven Hoban at Copper Heart Entertainment. Hoban liked the concept for the film, and wanted to include it as a 3D rendering in the IMAX film CyberWorld he was producing. A manager rejected the idea, as the subject material was deemed to be inappropriate for CyberWorld's young target audience.\n\nA production team was assembled with Copper Heart Entertainment, and it received a grant from the Canada Council for the Arts. The National Film Board of Canada agreed to be a co-producer. Landreth also secured studio space at the Animation Arts Centre of Seneca College in Toronto, and in 2003 four graduates and fifteen undergraduates from its 3D Animation program were recruited to work on the film. The core development team consisted of one computer graphics supervisor, four animators, one texture mapper, one renderer, two set modellers, and a few character modellers.\n\nIn the summer of 2001, he conducted several interviews with Larkin, who gave Landreth carte blanche for the project. Landreth accumulated about 20 hours of audio footage, but did not think it was sufficient material on which to base a story, so in August he interviewed him again, this time asking about his alcoholism. Larkin, who had been drinking throughout the interview, responded angrily, and this would become the \"climactic moment in the film\". This led Landreth to change the production from a story primarily narrated by Larkin to an interview-style cinéma vérité documentary in which Landreth's character had a larger role.\n\nLandreth acquired a comprehensive set of Larkin's works from the National Film Board of Canada and other reference material. He also conducted interviews with Felicity Fanjoy, who had been Larkin's girlfriend in the past, and Derek Lamb, who directed films at the NFB and was a producer for Larkin in the 1970s. He used the interviews and reference material to create a script, which he completed by December.\n\nThe animation used the technique of psychological realism, blending dialogue from interviews with subjective screen characters who are \"sometimes fragmented, distorted, or in some way unusual\". The representation of the characters was partly inspired by Body Worlds, a travelling exhibition of human bodies preserved by plastination to reveal internal anatomical structures.\n\nLandreth has stated that Larkin's character in the film is a subjective interpretation based on his own ideology and experiences, citing one of his favourite quotations \"we don't see things as they are, we see things as we are\". He animated Larkin as a beaten character \"battered by years of substance abuse and still bearing the scars of his artistic failure\". Landreth stated that the visual appearance of the characters \"reflect pain, insanity, fear, mercy, shame, and creativity\", and that the effect was to show the characters' \"souls or mental states or psyches\".\n\nLandreth incorporated Larkin's alcoholism as part of the narrative of the film, at first in the background as Larkin sips from a thermos, and later directly as Landreth asks Larkin about his alcoholism. The attention to Larkin's alcoholism also reflects Landreth's mother's troubles with alcohol.\n\nPre-production and production took about 18 months. Use of the Seneca College computing infrastructure, which was loaned for free for the production, was valued by NFB producer Marcy Page at about . Intel donated the use of a render farm for the production. The overall cost to produce \"Ryan\" was about .\n\nThe film was dedicated to Landreth's mother, Barbara.\n\nThe animation consists of three-dimensional avatars representing the interview subjects, each \"mutilated and deformed in ways expressive of emotional and artistic trauma\". The film uses emotional realism instead of photorealism, using graphic elements to represent the characters' state of mind. There is a shift between techniques throughout the animation, particularly the use of hand-drawn vectors, rotoscoping, and 3D rendering of characters and the environments in which they are set. The setting is a dilapidated cafeteria in which the characters representing Larkin and Landreth are seated across from each other at a table. It was chosen to bring the characters into one setting for interaction, instead of having to deal with multiple settings. It also provides a neutral setting with a relaxed atmosphere to mitigate any initial bias toward the characters. In some scenes, colour correction was used to \"achieve a dark mood\".\n\nIncorporated into the film in their entirety are two of Larkin's most famous animated shorts, \"Walking\" and the 1972 line animation \"Street Musique\". As Larkin's character dances with one of the characters from \"Street Musique\", stroboscoping arms are shown, an homage to \"Pas de deux\" by Norman McLaren, Larkin's mentor at the NFB. An animated rendering of Larkin attending the 42nd Academy Awards in 1970 is also included.\n\nAnimators were required to present a \"continuously varying viewpoint\" using distortion effects on a linear perspective camera. Each object in the three-dimensional scene had to be independently specified, and frame composition had to be independent of the projection. Three types of projection systems were used for the production of \"Ryan\": perspective linear projection for lines converging at a common vanishing point, parallel linear projection for objects to maintain \"parallel line relationships\", and nonlinear projection for curvilinear distortion of nearby objects. The latter was defined by the viewing and projection transformations of the cameras and spatial weight functions applied to each camera. Included in the model was support for independent manipulation of two-dimensional transformations, particularly for changing an object's translation, rotation, and scaling. The model was then incorporated into Maya for animation using scene geometry deformation. This would render \"multiple simultaneous projections and camera angles\" to a single frame. The nonlinear projections were also used to establish a \"cinematic mood\" for the setting.\n\nThe students at Seneca College used eight workstations with \"the latest 3D digital technology\". The Maya software by Alias (now part of Autodesk) was used for 3D modeling, rigging, lighting, rendering, and animation. The brushes \"smear\", \"blur\", and \"erase\" were used extensively to create the psychological realism effects of the film. Landreth stated that Maya was chosen because of its paint effects, which were an integral part of the film.\n\nDiscreet Combustion was used for compositing and all 2D computer graphics. According to lead compositor Belma Abdicevic, the frequently used compositing tools were paint, colour correction, and motion blur. Adobe Photoshop was used for painting and texture mapping, and Adobe Premiere was used for creative development and editing.\n\nLandreth contacted Mathematics of Information Technology and Complex Systems (MITACS), a network funded by the Government of Canada, to create algorithms for digitally modelling and rendering hair. The MITACS team, headed by computer science associate professor Karan Singh of the University of Toronto, created a mathematical formula known as a \"cord\", which is used to represent the physical characteristics of animated curves. The cord was based on a cubic function with uniform parametrization. This cord enables rope-like objects, such as hair, string, or wire, to \"behave intuitively\" when rendered in animation, preserving \"length, elasticity and stiffness\". Implemented using Maya, cords could be generated by defining a \"guide curve\", a parametric curve in space, which the software would then follow to create an analytic, continuous shape wrapping around scene geometry. Singh was the software research and development director for the film. The MITACS team also executed all technical scripting and programming for the animation.\n\nAlthough it appears to be live action, all aspects of character movement are rendered animations conceived for the film, and are not based on motion capture. Patrick Louguet and Fabien Maheu state that the characters are brought to life as disembodied, skinned, and broken. The characters have faces that are \"dissipated and decimated\", representing each individual's personal demons, and temporary protrusions from the head represent emotions. Larkin's character is presented as incomplete and fragile, and is the \"most ravaged of all the characters\".\n\nAbout half of the facial animation was performed by Landreth, and the other half by the Seneca College students. Character expression and gesture was modelled using straight ahead animation, which was used to avoid the cartoonish style of \"one gesture per accent of dialogue\" in pose-to-pose animation. Landreth chose this style after having studied anatomy and biomechanics, and a body's expression of emotion, such as finger movements and facial expressions. The expression of Larkin's character changes from nostalgia, joy, anger, anxiety, nervousness, defensiveness, and passivity during the film. The thermos is imbued with character, persistently demanding Larkin's attention, who submits to it compulsively. The settings also exhibit character, morphing at times reflecting the state of mind of the primary characters.\n\nLandreth directed the animators to use graph editing rather than the exposure sheets typically used in 2D animation. The latter enable an animator to \"break down the individual motions in a character\", but Landreth preferred an approach that did not involve characters moving in curves. He wanted the characters to portray realistic motion, which begins with an abrupt twitch for a muscle contraction and must also account for momentum and mass. For example, Landreth stated that an individual's arm should be slightly in front of the body, at 30 degrees with respect to the \"scapular plane of the skeleton\".\n\nCords are used to animate coloured threads that wrap themselves around the character's heads, and are used metaphorically in the film to represent Landreth's fear of failure and Larkin's loss of creativity. The use of coloured threads is explained by Landreth's character in first-person narrative at the beginning of the film as metaphorically representing emotional scars and frustrations. Landreth's character is rendered so that a halo appears above his head \"when he gets too sanctimonious\". Other characters appear when mentioned by Larkin, rendered as three-dimensional interpretations of Larkin's sketches.\n\nThe soundtrack consists of audio from previously recorded interviews, and uses a technique employed in the development of Aardman Animation's 1989 film \"Creature Comforts\". It uses character action to reveal \"the half-truths and self-deceptions of the dialogue\". Throughout, Landreth narrates the story based on information obtained from the interviews and the archives. Landreth did not remove Larkin's stutter, a condition resultant from Larkin's cocaine use.\n\n\"Ryan\" debuted at the Cannes Film Festival on 17 May 2004, where it was well received. Its Canadian debut was at the Worldwide Short Film Festival, and it was later shown at the Ottawa International Animation Festival, for which Robinson arranged to screen \"Walking\" in the Friday night competition as a special event and for publicity. Its US premiere was at SIGGRAPH 2004 in Los Angeles.\n\nRoger Ebert reviewed the film in his coverage of Academy Award nominees, stating that the \"animation technique is dramatic, striking and wholly original\" and that the \"effect is hard to describe, impossible to forget\". The Toronto Film Critics' Association stated that \"Ryan\" was \"an historic achievement in Canadian animation\". David Kehr stated in an article in \"The New York Times\" that \"Ryan\" is a \"work of art that exists on its own highly original terms\". F.C. Luz stated that \"Ryan\" is an example of the \"new visual and narrative forms\" enabled by computer-generated imagery.\n\nRick Baumgartner of Animation World Network described \"Ryan\" as a \"3D hand-animated symphony of creativity and color\" with a \"visceral graphic style\". M.J. Stone of The Globe and Mail stated that the film has \"astonishing imagery\". Ellen Besen stated that \"breaking away from the one gesture per accent standard is a hallmark of Landreths approach\".\n\nLarkin had a \"pained reaction to his psychorealistic portrayal\", stating that he was not fond of his \"skeleton image\". Landreth stated that Larkin first found his character's appearance in the film disturbing, but came to like it after realizing that all the characters in the film had a \"disconnected, distorted appearance\".\n\nBy 2007, the film had won over 60 awards, including:\n\nThe film also received honourable mention at the 2005 Sundance Film Festival for short filmmaking. It was one of \"Canada's Top Ten\" features of 2004 compiled by the Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nLarkin attended the Ottawa International Animation Festival, and when it was announced as the grand prize winner, accompanied Landreth to the stage and \"took a bow\". The NFB invited Larkin to attend the Academy Awards, but he declined the offer. The NFB sent staff to Los Angeles one month before the Academy Awards in order to promote \"Ryan\", the \"most aggressive Oscar campaign\" it had ever undertaken.\n\nLandreth dedicated the Academy Award to Larkin, stating in his acceptance speech that receiving the award was made possible because of \"the grace and humility of one guy watching in Montreal\". Larkin was watching the Academy Awards with friends at Copacabana, his favourite Montreal bar which he also referred to as his \"office\". He did not hear the speech because his friends and other bar patrons were cheering loudly and congratulating him after the film was announced as the winner.\n\nLandreth hoped that winning the Academy Award would enable him to convince theatre operators to include \"Ryan\" preceding a full-length film in order to obtain greater mainstream exposure. In Canada, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) bought first window broadcast rights for \"Ryan\" and \"Alter Egos\", and Alliance Atlantis bought second window rights. The CBC had already broadcast both films on \"The Passionate Eye\" and \"Rough Cuts\". The NFB also signed agreements with specialty channels in Canada, the United States, and Europe to broadcast the film.\n\n\"Ryan\" was in the 2004 collection of the Animation Show of Shows, and was included in the 11th volume and second box set it released.\n\nOwing to the film's popularity, Larkin \"found himself gaining unusual fame for someone who supposedly lived in obscurity\". Larkin stated that because of the film, \"there are millions of people out there wanting to see another Ryan Larkin film\". Landreth established a fund at the Old Brewery Mission for Larkin who in 2005 began working on an animated film titled \"Spare Change\" about his panhandling on the streets of Montreal based on poems he had recently written. It was a collaboration with composer Laurie Gordon of the band Chiwawa, who would be responsible for the film's music and voices. When he began the project, he continued to panhandle on Saint-Laurent Boulevard, stating that \"I can't disappoint my clientele\". He was one of the panhandlers interviewed for the documentary film \"Chez Schwartz\" about the delicatessen.\n\nIn 2006, Larkin signed a contract with MTV Canada to create three five-second bumpers that aired on 25 and 26 December 2006. They were the only channel IDs to be broadcast by MTV Canada on those days. He died on Valentine's Day 2007 as a result of lung cancer that had metastasized to his brain. The ten-minute animation \"Spare Change\" was completed alone by Gordon, and premiered in a double bill with \"All Together Now\" at the Festival du nouveau cinéma in Montreal on 8 October 2008. The two films were shown together in theatres throughout Canada that month. Gordon and Nicola Zavaglia later released \"Ryan's Renaissance\", a documentary film about Larkin and \"Spare Change\".\n\nRobinson stated in his book \"Ballad of a Thin Man: In Search of Ryan Larkin\" that although Larkin did not change because of the new-found attention, that \"by knowing him, he seems to trigger change in others\". In the book \"The Animation Pimp\", Robinson states that he \"quit drinking and started to make amends for the swamp of a life I created\" after his few meetings with Larkin.\n\nThe eleven Seneca College students who were responsible for the animation of Ryan all found employment in the animation industry. Landreth received offers to produce feature films, but rejected them to create another animated short film, \"The Spine\", which was released in 2009 and used the same production team and psychological realism technique that was used in \"Ryan\". The software model created for the production of \"Ryan\" was the basis for a Master of Science thesis by Patrick Coleman.\n\n\"Ryan\" is considered to be one of the high-profile examples of animated documentary. It was screened at the Ontario Science Centre in November 2005, during which the Body Worlds exhibit was on display. The film \"Alter Egos\" was commissioned by the NFB to document the making of \"Ryan\", and includes interviews with Landreth, Larkin, and others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58937913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58937913", "title": "Sally Byng", "text": "Sally Byng\n\nSally Byng is a British speech and language therapist specialising in the treatment of aphasia, Chief executive of the Barnwood Trust, and Deputy lieutenant of Gloucestershire.\n\nByng was the Head of Division of Language and Communication Science at City, University of London from 1993–2002 and is named as one of the \"City's Extraordinary Women\". In 2018 she was named as one the \"50 Greatest Gloucestershire Women of all time\" by Gloucestershire Live.\n\nByng was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists in 1991 and was awarded an OBE in 2005. She is a Deputy lieutenant of Gloucestershire and a Trustee of the Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust. \n\n"}
{"id": "2234566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234566", "title": "Serious adverse event", "text": "Serious adverse event\n\nA serious adverse event (SAE) in human drug trials is defined as any untoward\nmedical occurrence that at any dose \n\nThe term \"life-threatening\" in the definition of \"serious\" refers to an event in which the patient was at risk of death at the time of the event; it does not refer to an event which hypothetically might have caused death if it were more severe. Adverse events are further defined as “Any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment.”\n\nInvestigators in human clinical trials are obligated to report these events in clinical study reports. Research suggests that these events are often inadequately reported in publicly available reports. Because of the lack of these data and uncertainty about methods for synthesising them, individuals conducting systematic reviews and meta-analyses of therapeutic interventions often unknowingly overemphasise health benefit. To balance the overemphasis on benefit, scholars have called for more complete reporting of harm from clinical trials.\n\nSerious adverse reactions are serious adverse events judged to be related to drug therapy. A SUSAR (suspected unexpected serious adverse reaction) should be reported to a drug regulatory authority under an investigational license by using the CIOMS form (or in some countries an equivalent form). \"Unexpected\" means that for an authorised (approved) medicinal product that the event is not described in the product's labeling, or in the case of an investigational (unapproved) product that the event is not listed in the Investigator’s Brochure.\n\nAn adverse effect is an adverse event which is believed to be caused by a health intervention.\n\n"}
{"id": "34321809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34321809", "title": "Sexual Health Resource Centre", "text": "Sexual Health Resource Centre\n\nThe Sexual Health Resource Centre (SHRC) is a non-profit information and referral service that addresses sex, sexuality, and sexual health. It serves the community of Kingston, Ontario, Canada, and is located in the John Deutsch University Centre of Queen’s University. It is operated by volunteers year round who respond to inquiries by phone or in person. It is funded by student fees from the Alma Mater Society and Society of Graduate and Professional Students at Queen’s University.\n\nDr. Jim Whitley, a math professor and assistant to the Principal, helped spearhead a student project in 1971 called the Birth Control and Abortion Information and Referral Centre, which was also staffed by full-time coordinators. One of the initial goals of the Centre was to provide information on “birth control, abortion, infertility, vasectomies and veneral disease, and medical referrals.” By 1974, its expanding mandate led to a name change to the Birth Control, VD & Abortion Referral Centre. The Centre moved to the Grey House at 51 Bader Lane in 1975 and established a lending library. The name was again changed to the shorter “Birth Control Centre” in 1983. The Centre began selling sexual health products at cost with the introduction of spermicidal foam and condom wallets in the late 1980s. This selection expanded by 1991 to include spermicidal jelly and sponges. In 1995, the Centre was again renamed as the “(Not Just the) Birth Control Centre” in recognition of its growing mandate, which was again promptly changed to the Sexual Health Resource Centre, which it remains today. In 2004, theSHRC began receiving direct funding from Queen’s University undergraduate students through the establishment of a mandatory $0.85 CAD fee per student. The fee withstood a challenge that it discriminated against students on the basis of religion that same year.\n\nThe SHRC is an educational resource to the community it serves. It has its own lending library, separate from the Queen’s University library, and has a diverse selection of pamphlets. SHRC volunteers have also offered educational teach-in sessions for audiences ranging from elementary school to university students and other community groups since 1984. Teach-ins cover a range of topics from healthy relationships, contraception, sexually transmitted infections, and sex toys.\n\nThe SHRC also sells an assortment of sexual health and pleasure products at cost. The Centre began selling products in 1987, beginning with spermicidal foam. Contraceptive and protective methods currently sold include a variety of condoms, dental dams, and reality condoms (aka female condoms). The SHRC has also sold sex toys at cost since 2001, such as dildos, masturbatory sleeves, vibrators, and bondage play items.\n\nThe SHRC also regularly collaborates with community groups in Kingston with a similar mandate, such as HIV/AIDS Regional Services, ReelOut Queer Film Festival, and Sexual Assault Centre Kingston.\n"}
{"id": "27304640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27304640", "title": "Sindh Institute of Urology &amp; Transplantation", "text": "Sindh Institute of Urology &amp; Transplantation\n\nThe Sindh Institute of Urology & Transplantation ('SIUT') is a dialysis & kidney transplant centre located in Pakistan.\n\nSIUT was founded by Dr. Adibul Hasan Rizvi and it is Pakistan's largest kidney disease center, as well as Pakistan's largest public sector health organisation. It began as a department of urology at the government-run Civil Hospital in 1970 and became autonomous in 1991. 10-12 transplants are performed weekly, and in 2003 doctors at SIUT performed Pakistan's first liver transplant. In 2004, a child care unit was opened.\n\nAll services provided by SIUT, including dialysis and transplantation, are provided free of cost.\n\n"}
{"id": "22760807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22760807", "title": "Stand Up and Take Action", "text": "Stand Up and Take Action\n\nStand Up and Take Action is the name of an annual global mobilization coordinated by the United Nations Millennium Campaign and the Global Call to Action against Poverty.\n\nIn 2000, leaders of 189 countries assembled in New York City to outline a series of targets to address the most serious challenges in the developing world. The MDGs are an eight-point road map with measurable targets and clear deadlines for improving the lives of the world's poorest people. World leaders have agreed to achieve the MDGs by 2015.\n\nThe Stand Up is organized by the United Nations Millennium Campaign. The United Nations Millennium Campaign is a UNDP campaign unit in response to the Millennium Declaration signed by 189 member states. Established in October, 2002, it aims to increase support to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and seek a coalition of partners for action. The Millennium Campaign targets intergovernmental, government, civil society organizations and media at both global and regional levels.\n\nThe forms of participation vary.\n\nCommon ways to make noise for MDG include:\n\nUnited Nations Millennium Campaign encourages the participants to record the events and inform the Campaign about the details to measure the level of support and increase the political impact.\n\nOn 15–16 October 2006, 23,542,614 people, in over eighty countries around the world set a new Guinness World Record for the largest number of people to \"STAND UP AGAINST POVERTY\". In Asia, 18,195,126 people took the pledge for poverty eradication. The Stand Up record attempt was an initiative of the Millennium Campaign in partnership with the Global Call to Action against Poverty (GCAP), set in time for the United Nations International Day for Poverty Eradication on 17 October 2006.\n\nMore than 43.7 million people in 127 countries participated in the second Stand Up in 2007.\n\nFrom October 17–19, more than 116 million people took part in the third Stand Up. The three days of action saw huge concerts in Lagos, Singapore, Togo, Manila and Nairobi. From Pretoria, Harare and Delhi, there were vast campaign marches and mass mobilizations.\n\nOther events included a countrywide caravan rally in Togo focusing on specific MDG goals, hundreds of mosques \"standing up\" in a statement of solidarity and, in Indonesia, a ‘Stand Up and Take Action’ Rap Contest for community youth groups in Manila.\n\nIn Belgium. there was a football event mass campaign while, in Germany, Bianca Jagger presented video messages from members of the World Future Council.\n\nSchools across the world also took part from Malta to Palestinian Authority, where 500,000 pupils organized debates. There were cinema screenings, mass signings, marches, and ant-poverty actions across the globe.\n\n173 million people, 2.5% of the world population, around the world took part in the fourth Stand Up. This was a new Guinness World Record. Over 3,000 events were held in more than 120 countries in the fourth year of the “Stand Up, Take Action, End Poverty Now!” campaign over the weekend. At least 100 million people in Asia took part in the campaign, while Africa saw the participation of almost 40 million, the Arab region over 30 million, Europe more than 2 million, Latin America and North America some 200,000 each, and Oceania more than 170,000.\n\nStand Up 2010 took place on September 17 to 19. The theme is “Make a Noise for the MDGs”. A global day of action will take place on September 18. This is designed to ensure that the support of the MDGs is seen and heard around the world prior to the UN MDG Review Summit taking place in New York City from September 20 to 22.\n\n"}
{"id": "1591617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591617", "title": "Stressor", "text": "Stressor\n\nA stressor is a chemical or biological agent, environmental condition, external stimulus or an event that causes stress to an organism. Psychologically speaking, a stressors can be events or environments that an individual would consider demanding, challenging, and or threaten the individual's safety.\n\nAn event that triggers the stress response may include:\n\nStressors have physical, chemical and mental responses inside of the body. Physical stressors produce mechanical stresses on skin, bones, ligaments, tendons, muscles and nerves that cause tissue deformation and in extreme cases tissue failure. Chemical stresses also produce biomechanical responses associated with metabolism and tissue repair. Physical stressors may produce pain and impair work performance. Chronic pain and impairment requiring medical attention may result from extreme physical stressors or if there is not sufficient recovery time between successive exposures.\n\nStressors may also affect mental function and performance. One possible mechanism involves stimulation of the hypothalamus, CRF (corticotropin release factor) -> pituitary gland releases ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone) -> adrenal cortex secretes various stress hormones (e.g., cortisol) -> stress hormones (30 varieties) travel in the blood stream to relevant organs, e.g., glands, heart, intestines -> flight-or-fight response. Between this flow there is an alternate path that can be taken after the stressor is transferred to the hypothalamus, which leads to the sympathetic nervous system. After which, the adrenal medulla secretes epinephrine. Mental and social stressors may affect behavior and how individuals respond to physical and chemical stressors.\n\nLife requires everyone to make sudden and planned adjustments to meet its demands, but the greater the demand comes with a greater adjustment and possibly more stress. Determining the impact of these various stressors allow individuals to decide the relationship between the types of stressors and the degree of distress. Identifying the stressor-stress relationship must involve quantifying the impact of life demands and all stress spurred from it. To do this, subjective measures and objective measures will be used depending on the situation. Individuals determine the degree of adjustment themselves in subjective measures, but a degree of adjustment will be or has already been assigned to the individual in an objective measure. The degrees of adjustment are measured by life change units, where one unit equals a degree of adjustment necessary to cope with the life change. The practice of measuring life change units led to the creation of many scales composed of these units that are tailored to certain life events or situations, such as social readjustment and college students . \n\nPsychological Stressors \n\nStressors occur when an individual is unable to cope with the demands of their environment (such as crippling debt with no clear path to resolving it). Generally, stressors take many forms, such as: traumatic events, life demands, sudden medical emergencies, and daily inconveniences, to name a few. There are also a variety of characteristics that a stressor may possess (different durations, intensity, predictability, and controllability).\n\nPredictability and Controllability\n\nWhen individuals are informed about events before they occur, the magnitude of the stressor is less than when compared to individuals who were not informed of the stressor. For example, an individual would prefer to know when they have a deadline ahead of time in order to prepare for it in advance, rather than find out about the deadline the day of. In knowing that there is a deadline ahead of time, the intensity of the stressor is smaller for the individual, as opposed to the magnitude of intensity for the other unfortunate individual who found out about the deadline the day of. When this was tested, psychologists found that when given the choice, individuals had a preference for the predictable stressors, rather than the unpredictable stressors.\n\nAdditionally, the degree to which the stressor can be controlled plays a variable in how the individual perceives stress. Research has found that if an individual is able to take some control over the stressor, then the level of stress will be decreased. During this study, it was found that the individuals become increasingly anxious and distressed if they were unable to control their environment. As an example, imagine an individual who detests baths in the Middle Ages, taking a bath. If the individual was forced to take the bath with no control over the temperature of the bath (one of the variables), then their anxiety and stress levels would be higher than if the individual was given some control over the environment (such as being able to control the temperature of the water).\n\nBased on these two principles (predictability and control), there are two hypotheses that attempt to account for these preferences; the preparatory response hypothesis and safety hypothesis attempt to accommodate these preferences.\n\nPreparatory Response Hypothesis\n\nThe idea behind this hypothesis is that an organism can better prepare for an event if they are informed beforehand, as this allows them to prepare for it (biologically). In biologically preparing for this event beforehand, the individual is able to better decrease the event's aversiveness. In knowing when a potential stressor will occur (such as an exam), the individual could, in theory, prepare for it in advance, thus decreasing the stress that may result from that event.\n\nSafety Hypothesis\n\nIn this hypothesis, there are two time periods, one in which is deemed safe (where there is no stressor), and one which is deemed unsafe (in which the stressor is present). This is similar to procrastination and cramming; during the safe intervals (weeks before an exam) the individual is relaxed and not anxious, and during the unsafe intervals (the day or night before the exam) the individual most likely experiences stress and anxiety.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32820308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32820308", "title": "Sulemanki Headworks", "text": "Sulemanki Headworks\n\nSulemanki Headworks is a headworks on the River Sutlej near Okara, in the Punjab province of Pakistan.\n\nSulemanki Headworks is used for irrigation and flood control.\n\nSulemanki Headworks is part of the Sutlej Valley Project completed between 1922-1927 at the behest of the Nawab of Bahawalpur, Amir Sadiq Mohammed Khan V and the British Government. It was an irrigation scheme to develop the neighbouring areas. http://www.bahawalnagar.net/History.aspx\n\nMore specifically, the construction of the Pakpattan Canal took place in British Punjab in 1925 to on the right bank of the Sulemanki Headworks. This was undertaken to develop the Nilli bar colony in the south of Punjab.\n\nThis headworks is located about a mile from the Indian border on the Sutlej River. From here originate three major canals which supply irrigation water to a large area in Southern Punjab and the Bahawalnagar district. The Upper Pakpattan Canal arises from its right bank and two canals arise from the left. The canals on the left bank are Fordwah and Eastern Sadiqia Canal. The later canal runs along the Pakistan-India border. After 46 miles at Jalwala headworks, Eastern Sadiqia Canal trifurcates into Sirajwah distributary, Malik Branch Canal and Hakara Branch Canal. Hakara branch runs in a southwesterly direction for another 75 miles and is at few places it is a few meters from the Indian border. According to Pakistan army it provides a major defensive landmark against any possible Indian intrusion. Therefore, it is of a significant strategic importance. http://vatsrohit.blogspot.com/2012/08/pakistan-defensive-canals-in-south.html\n\nAbout ten miles upriver from the Sulemanki Headworks the Baloki-Sulemanki Link Canal has its outfall connecting the Ravi River to the Sutlej River and thus offsetting the loss of water to India as agreed upon in Indus Basin Water Treaty of 1960. According to that treaty, three Eastern rivers, Ravi, Sutlej and Beas are allocated for the exclusive use of India before they enter Pakistan.\n\nIn accordance with the popularity of Retreat Ceremony at other Indo-Pakistan border crossings such as at Wagah and Hussainiwala near Lahore, a smaller ceremony also takes place here at the check point Sadki by Pakistan Rangers and Indian Border Security Force. It attracts a sizable number of tourists on both sides. http://pakarmedforces.com/2013/12/major-shabbir-sharif-6-december-1971.html\n\nIn fact the small hilltop Pakistani check point of Sadki was transferred to the Pakistani control by India by a treaty signed on January 17, 1961. Pakistan needed to have border adjustments for efficient operation of the Headworks which was not possible otherwise. In return Pakistan ceded a part of its territory to India. That territory in itself is noteworthy for the memorial constructed in memory of Bhaghat Singh, a freedom fighter who was executed by the colonial British government.\n\nMajor Shabbir Sharif, a Pakistani officer, the elder brother of General Raheel Sharif, former Chief of Pakistan Army Staff was myrtyred in Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 in this border region. He was posthumously awarded Nishan-Haider the highest Pakistani military honor for bravery.\n\n"}
{"id": "18481934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18481934", "title": "William Penhall", "text": "William Penhall\n\nWilliam Penhall (27 October 1858 – 3 August 1882) was an English mountaineer.\n\nThe son of Dr John Penhall MRCS LSA (born 1833 at St Pancras, Middlesex, in 1871 a general practitioner in Hastings, Sussex), Penhall was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge, where he graduated BA in 1881. At the time of the 1881 census, he was enumerated at Trinity, giving his place of birth as Hastings, Sussex, and his occupation as \"No Occ.\"\n\nPenhall made the first ascent of a number of peaks and routes in the Alps during the silver age of alpinism.\n\nTogether with Martin Conway, G. S. Scriven and guides Ferdinand Imseng and Peter and M. Truffer he made the first ascent (in two and a half hours) of the west face of the Zinalrothorn in August 1878. With Albert Frederick Mummery and guides Alexander Burgener and Ferdinand Imseng he made the first ascent of the Dürrenhorn on 7 September 1879.\n\nPenhall was involved in a race with Mummery to be the first to climb the Zmutt ridge of the Matterhorn, a race which Mummery eventually won. According to Penhall, his interest in finding a new way up the mountain had been kindled by Edward Whymper's account of the successful first ascent in 1865 in \"Scrambles amongst the Alps\". As Mummery and Burgener approached the mountain to attempt the ridge they met Penhall, and guides Ferdinand Imseng and Louis Zurbrücken, who had retreated from the mountain after a bad-weather bivouac on the ridge. After a brief rest in Zermatt, Penhall returned to the Matterhorn, making the first ascent of the its west face on 3 September 1879, a harder climb than the Zmutt ridge; his party reached the summit one hour after Mummery's. Penhall wrote an account of the west face climb in the Alpine Journal entitled 'The Matterhorn from the Zmutt Glacier'. The Penhall Couloir on the west face is named after him.\n\nPenhall and Meiringen guide Andreas Maurer were killed by an avalanche high up on the Wetterhorn on 3 August 1882. Penhall and Maurer share a double gravestone in the Grindelwald cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "26876920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26876920", "title": "ZAMBART Project", "text": "ZAMBART Project\n\nZAMBART Project is a public health research non-governmental organization conducting scientific research into the dual epidemics of tuberculosis and HIV. The organization is based in Lusaka, Zambia at the University of Zambia's School of Medicine Ridgeway Campus. ZAMBART has over 200 employees and works in 16 study sites throughout the country.\n\nThe Zambia AIDS Related Tuberculosis (ZAMBART) Project is a Zambian NGO formed in 2004 from a collaboration between the University of Zambia’s School of Medicine and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine that spans more than 20 years. From the initial studies of the impact of HIV on the clinical presentation and outcome of tuberculosis, the scope and partnership of the research have expanded widely. Based in Lusaka, ZAMBART now collaborates closely with government, non-governmental and academic institutions within Zambia, Africa and the rest of the world. ZAMBART staff form an interdisciplinary team with a range of expertise including epidemiology, clinical science, social science, laboratory, operations research, health systems and services research, health policy analysis, health economics, development communication and counselling.\n\nZAMBART focuses on the overlap between HIV and TB in order to improve the quality of life of people affected by the dual epidemic. Conducting research within a limited resource setting, ZAMBART is committed to: bridging research and action through operational research and through forging effective collaboration with local stakeholders; providing evidence-based and high quality research; addressing relevant scientific and priority questions; and capacity building for Zambian research - both scientific and managerial.\n\nInternationally, ZAMBART is recognised as one of the foremost TB/HIV research groups in the world. Representatives sit on the World Health Organization (WHO) TB/HIV working group and have assisted in the writing of WHO technical guidelines and policy documents. In addition, ZAMBART is actively involved in regional and international research consortia through TARGETS , Evidence for Action and the Consortium to Respond Effectively to the AIDS/TB Epidemic (CREATE).\n\nZAMBART has no core funding but has been successful in attracting grants from a wide range of sources. Much of the current portfolio of activity is funded through the Department For International Development (DFID) Knowledge Programmes on Tuberculosis (TARGETS) and HIV (Evidence for Action) and the CREATE Consortium, funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.\n"}
