{"id": "1261305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261305", "title": "Act (drama)", "text": "Act (drama)\n\nAn act is a division or unit of a theatre work, including a play, film, opera, and musical theatre. The term can either refer to a conscious division placed within a work by a playwright (usually itself made up of multiple scenes) or a unit of analysis for dividing a dramatic work into sequences. The former use of the term may or may not align with the latter. The word \"act\" can also be used for major sections of other entertainment, such as variety shows, television programs, music hall performances, and cabaret.\n\nAn act is a part of a play defined by elements such as rising action, climax and resolution.:» A scene is a part of an act defined with the changing of characters.\n\nTo be more specific, the elements that create the plot of a play or any story, and divide a play into acts include the exposition, which give information, setting up the rest of the story. Another is the inciting incident, which starts all of the action that will follow. Going along with the inciting incident, the major dramatic question is formed; this holds the rest of the play. The majority of the play is made up of complications. These are the things that change the action. These complications lead up to the crisis, this is the turning point. Most of the time, at this point, the major dramatic question has been answered. Finally, there is the resolution. This is the end of the play where everything comes together and the situation has been resolved. This leaves the audience satisfied with the play as a whole. These more specific elements of plot in a play are the main things used to divide a play up into acts and sometimes scenes.\n\nRoman theatre was the first to divide plays into a number of acts separated by intervals. Acts may be further divided into scenes; in classical theater each regrouping between entrances and exits of actors is a scene, while later use describes a change of setting.\n\nThough there are no limits to the number of acts which might exist within a dramatic work, the most common formats are the three-act and five-act structures. Both of these are derived from different interpretations of Aristotle's \"Poetics\" in which he stresses the primacy of plot over character and \"an orderly arrangement of parts\".\n\nModern plays often have only one level of structure, which can be referred to as either scenes or acts at the whim of the writer; and some writers dispense with firm divisions entirely. Successive scenes are normally separated from each other in either time or place; but the division between acts is more to do with the overall dramatic structure of the piece. The end of an act often coincides with one or more characters making an important decision, else having an important decision to make. A decision which has a profound impact on the story being told.\n\nContemporary theatre, in line with screenwriting and novel forms, tends towards a three-act structure. Many operettas and most musicals are divided into just two acts, so in practice the intermission is seen as dividing them, and the word \"act\" comes to be used for the two halves of a show whether or not the script divides it into acts.\n\nA one-act play is a short drama that consists of only one act; the phrase is not used to describe a full-length play that does not utilize act-divisions. Unlike other plays which usually are published one play per book, one-act plays are often published in anthologies or collections.\n\nIn a three-act play, each act usually has a different tone to it. The most commonly used structure is the first act having a lot of introductory elements, the second act can usually be the darkest with the antagonists having a greater encompass, while the third act is the resolution and the protagonists prevailing. There is an age-old saying that \"the second act is the best\" because it was in between a starting and ending act and thus being able to delve deeper into more of the meat of the story since it does not need to have as prominent introductory or resolutive portions. This is not always so, since a third act or even a first act can have the common second act characteristics, but that type of structure is the most used.\n\nUntil the 18th century, most plays were divided into five acts. The work of William Shakespeare, for example, generally adheres to a five act structure . This format is known as the five-act play, and was famously analyzed by Gustav Freytag in \"Die Technik des Dramas\" (Dramatic techniques). The five acts played specific functions in the overall structure of the play; but in performance there was not necessarily any clear separation between them.\n\nA similar five-part structure is also used in traditional Japanese Noh drama, particularly by Zeami Motokiyo. Zeami, in his work \"Sandō\" (The Three Paths), originally described a five-part (five \"dan\") Noh play as the ideal form. It begins slowly and auspiciously in the first part (\"jo\"), building up the drama and tension in the second, third, and fourth parts (\"ha\"), with the greatest climax in the third \"dan\", and rapidly concluding with a return to peace and auspiciousness in the fifth \"dan\" (\"kyū\").\n\nAs part of a television program, each individual act can be separated by commercials.\nIn film, a number of scenes grouped together bring to an audiovisual work to life. The three act structure is commonly referred to in film adaptation of theatrical plays.\n\n"}
{"id": "17389577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17389577", "title": "Afghanistan Pakistan People's Friendship Association", "text": "Afghanistan Pakistan People's Friendship Association\n\nThe Afghanistan Pakistan People's Friendship Association is a non-governmental organization group which operates in Pakistan and Afghanistan. These two nations neighbor each other and have had at times turbulent relationships. The aims of the association are to promote various issues such as refugees, free trade zones, education, landmines, and poverty, as well as challenging government policies. The organisation organises various conferences, including collaborative efforts with the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan.\n\nThe Afghanistan Pakistan People's Friendship Association was established in December 2001. Under this Friendship Association, three conferences have been held at Peshawar, Quetta and Karachi.\n\nIn June 2003 the association, along with the human rights commission of Pakistan, organised a conference in the city of Karachi to discuss the situation of Afghan refugees. The conference criticised various government policies including military action in the Mohmand Agency which borders Afghanistan. The conference claimed that such actions were an impediment to the normalisation of relations between the two countries. The association has also urged both countries to release each other's citizens in jail for petty offences as well as urging Pakistan to relax visa restrictions for Afghans.\n\nAfrasiab Khattak\n"}
{"id": "20592794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20592794", "title": "Ancient Roman sarcophagi", "text": "Ancient Roman sarcophagi\n\nIn the burial practices of ancient Rome and Roman funerary art, marble and limestone sarcophagi elaborately carved in relief were characteristic of elite inhumation burials from the 2nd to the 4th centuries AD. At least 10,000 Roman sarcophagi have survived, with fragments possibly representing as many as 20,000. Although mythological scenes have been mostly widely studied, sarcophagus relief has been called the \"richest single source of Roman iconography,\" and may also depict the deceased's occupation or life course, military scenes, and other subject matter. The same workshops produced sarcophagi with Jewish or Christian imagery. Early Christian sarcophagi produced from the late 3rd century onwards, represent the earliest form of large Christian sculpture, and are important for the study of Early Christian art.\n\nThey were mostly made in a few major cities, including Rome and Athens, which exported them to other cities. Elsewhere the stela gravestone remained more common. They were always a very expensive form reserved for the elite, and especially so in the relatively few very elaborately carved examples; most were always relatively plain, with inscriptions, or symbols such as garlands. Sarcophagi divide into a number of styles, by the producing area. \"Roman\" ones were made to rest against a wall, and one side was left uncarved, while \"Attic\" and other types were carved on all four sides; but the short sides were generally less elaborately decorated in both types.\n\nThe time taken to make them encouraged the use of standard subjects, to which inscriptions might be added to personalize them, and portraits of the deceased were slow to appear. The sarcophagi offer examples of intricate reliefs that depict scenes often based on Greek and Roman mythology or mystery religions that offered personal salvation, and allegorical representations. Roman funerary art also offers a variety of scenes from everyday life, such as game-playing, hunting, and military endeavors. Early Christian art quickly adopted the sarcophagus, and they are the most common form of early Christian sculpture, progressing from simple examples with symbols to elaborate fronts, often with small scenes of the Life of Christ in two rows within an architectural framework. The Sarcophagus of Junius Bassus (c. 359) is of this type, and the earlier Dogmatic Sarcophagus rather simpler. The huge porphyry Sarcophagi of Helena and Constantina are grand Imperial examples.\n\nCremation was the predominant means of disposing of remains in the Roman Republic. Ashes contained in cinerary urns and other monumental vessels were placed in tombs. From the 2nd century AD onward, inhumation became more common, and after the Roman Empire came under Christian rule, was standard practice. The Sarcophagus of Lucius Cornelius Scipio Barbatus is a rare example from much earlier. A sarcophagus, which means \"flesh-eater\" in Greek, is a stone coffin used for inhumation burials. Sarcophagi were commissioned not only for the elite of Roman society (mature male citizens), but also for children, entire families, and beloved wives and mothers. The most expensive sarcophagi were made from marble, but other stones, lead, and wood were used as well. Along with the range in production material, there existed a variety of styles and shapes, depending on where the sarcophagus was produced and whom it was produced for.\n\nInhumation burial practices and the use of sarcophagi were not always the favored Roman funerary custom. The Etruscans and Greeks used sarcophagi for centuries before the Romans finally adopted the practice in the second century. Prior to that period, the dead were usually cremated and placed in marble ash chests or ash altars, or were simply commemorated with a grave altar that was not designed to hold cremated remains. Despite being the main funerary custom during the Roman Republic, ash chests and grave altars virtually disappeared from the market only a century after the advent of the sarcophagus.\n\nIt is often assumed that the popularity for sarcophagi began with the Roman aristocracy and gradually became more accepted by the lower classes. However, in the past, the most expensive and ostentatious grave altars and ash chests were commissioned more frequently by wealthy freedmen and other members of the emerging middle class than by the Roman elite. Due to this fact and the lack of inscriptions on early sarcophagi, there is not enough evidence to make a judgment on whether or not the fashion for sarcophagi began with a specific social class. Surviving evidence does indicate that a great majority of early sarcophagi were used for children. This suggests that the change in burial practice may not have simply stemmed from a change in fashion, but perhaps from altered burial attitudes. It is possible that the decision to begin inhuming bodies occurred because families believed that inhumation was a kinder, and less disturbing burial rite than cremation, thus necessitating a shift in burial monument.\n\nAlthough grave altars and ash chests virtually disappeared from the market in the second century, aspects of their decoration endured in some stylistic elements of sarcophagi. The largest stylistic group of early sarcophagi in the second century is garland sarcophagi, a custom of decoration that was previously used on ash chests and grave altars. Though the premise of the decoration is the same, there are some differences. The garland supports are often human figures instead of the animal heads used previously. In addition, specific mythological scenes fill the field, rather than small birds or other minor scenes. The inscription panel on garland ash altars and chests is also missing on garland sarcophagi. When a sarcophagus did have an inscription, it seemed to be an extra addition and usually ran along the top edge of the chest or between the decorations. The fact that early garland sarcophagi continued the tradition of grave altars with decorated garlands suggests that the customers and sculptors of sarcophagi had similar approaches to those who purchased and produced grave altars. Both monuments employed a similar collection of stylistic motifs with only subtle shifts in iconography.\n\nSarcophagi production of the ancient Roman Empire involved three main parties: the customer, the sculpting workshop that carved the monument, and the quarry-based workshop that supplied the materials. The distance between these parties was highly variable due to the extensive size of the Empire. Metropolitan Roman, Attic, and Asiatic were the three major regional types of sarcophagi that dominated trade throughout the Roman Empire. Although they were divided into regions, the production of sarcophagi was not as simple as it might appear. For example, Attic workshops were close to Mount Pentelikon, the source of their materials, but were usually very far from their client. The opposite was true for the workshops of Metropolitan Rome, who tended to import large, roughed out sarcophagi from distant quarries in order to complete their commissions. Depending on distance and customer request (some customers might choose to have elements of their sarcophagi left unfinished until a future date, introducing the possibility of further work after the main commission), sarcophagi were in many different stages of production during transport. As a result, it is difficult to develop a standardized model of production.\n\nRome was the primary production center in the western part of the empire. A Metropolitan Roman sarcophagus often took the shape of a low rectangular box with a flat lid. As the sarcophagus was usually placed in a niche or against a wall in a mausoleum, they were usually only decorated on the front and two shorter sides. Many were decorated with carvings of garlands and fruits and leaves, as well as narrative scenes from Greek mythology. Battle and hunting scenes, biographical events from the life of the deceased, portrait busts, the profession of the deceased and abstract designs were also popular.\n\nAthens was the main production center for Attic style sarcophagi. These workshops mainly produced sarcophagi for export. They were rectangular in shape and were often decorated on all four sides, unlike the Metropolitan Roman style, with ornamental carvings along the bottom and upper edge of the monument. The lids were also different from the flat metropolitan Roman style and featured a pitched gable roof, or a kline lid, which is carved in the style of couch cushions on which the form of the deceased reclines. The great majority of these sarcophagi also featured mythological subjects, especially the Trojan War, Achilles, and battles with the Amazons.\n\nThe Dokimeion workshops in Phrygia specialized in architecturally formed large-scale Asiatic sarcophagi. Many featured a series of columns joined together by an entablature on all four sides with human figures in the area between the columns. The lids were often made in the gabled-roof design in order to complete the architectural-style sarcophagi so the coffin formed a sort of house or temple for the deceased. Other cities in Asia Minor produced sarcophagi of the garland tradition as well. In general, the sarcophagi were decorated on either three or four sides, depending on whether they were to be displayed on a pedestal in an open-air setting or against the walls inside tombs.\n\nA transition from the classical garland and seasonal reliefs with smaller mythological figures to a greater focus on full mythological scenes began with the break up of the classical style in the late second century towards the end of Marcus Aurelius' reign. This shift led to the development of popular themes and meanings portrayed through mythological scenes and allegories. The most popular mythological scenes on Roman sarcophagi functioned as aids to mourning, visions of life and happiness, and opportunities for self-portrayal for Roman citizens.\n\nImages of Meleager, the hero who slew the Calydonian Boar, being mourned by his lover and hunting companion Atlanta, as well as images of Achilles mourning Patroclus were very common on sarcophagi that acted as grieving aids. In both cases, the mythological scenes were akin to mourning practices of ordinary Roman citizens in an effort to reflect their grief and comfort them when they visited the tomb. Playful images depicting Nereids, Dionysiac triumphs, and love scenes of Dionysus and Ariadne were also commonly represented on sarcophagi. It is possible that these scenes of happiness and love in the face of death and mourning encouraged the living to enjoy life while they could, and reflected the celebration and meals that the mourners would later enjoy in the tomb when they returned to visit the deceased. The third century involved the return in popularity of self-representation on Roman sarcophagi.\n\nThere were several different ways Roman citizens approached self-representation on sarcophagi. Some sarcophagi had actual representations of the face or full figure of the deceased. In other cases, mythological portraits were used to connect characteristics of the deceased with traits of the hero or heroine portrayed. For example, common mythological portraits of deceased women identified them with women of lauded traits in myth, such as the devoted Selene or loyal Alcestis. Scenes featuring the figures of Meleager and Achilles expressed bravery and were often produced on sarcophagi holding deceased men. Biographical scenes that emphasize the true virtues of Roman citizens were also used to commemorate the deceased. Scholars argue that these biographical scenes as well as the comparisons to mythological characters suggest that self-portrayal on Roman sarcophagi did not exist to celebrate the traits of the deceased, but rather to emphasize favored Roman cultural values and demonstrate that the family of the deceased were educated members of the elite that could understand difficult mythological allegories.\n\nThe breakup of the classical style led to a period in which full mythological reliefs with an increase in the number of figures and an elongation of forms became more popular, as discussed above. The proportion of figures on the reliefs also became increasingly unbalanced, with the main figures taking up the greatest area with smaller figures crowded in the small pockets of empty space. In the third century, another transition in theme and style of sarcophagi involved the return in popularity of representing mythological and non-mythological portraits of the deceased. Imagery of the four seasons also becomes popular during the third and fourth centuries. With the advent of Christianity in the third century, traditional motifs, like the seasons, remained, and images representing a belief in the afterlife appeared. The change in style brought by Christianity is perhaps most significant, as it signals a change in emphasis on images of retrospection, and introduced images of an afterlife.\n\nDetails from sarcophagus reliefs\n\nSarcophagi personalization is the customization of a sarcophagus to display the attributes, achievements, or history of the deceased through art and/or inscriptions.\n\nThe sculpted scene on the front of the coffin shows the deceased in the Underworld between two Charuns (Etruscan death demons) in which signified that his journey to the afterlife was successful. On the lid, Pulena is shown laid across, in a reclining position, resting on his left arm and in front of him, a list of his life’s achievements which were inscribed on an open scroll.\n\nThe Asiatic sarcophagus with kline portrait of a woman also carried an Etruscan influence of sculpting portraiture on the lid. Made of marble, with reliefs on all four sides of the box (a feature in Eastern Sarcophagi production), and sculpted mini statues of Greek gods and heroes in frames are depicted. The lid displays a portrait of the woman with Cupid (right end) and a little dog (in which the paws only remain at the left end).\n\nThe Portonaccio sarcophagus is an example of one of a group of about twenty-five late Roman battle sarcophagi, with one exception all apparently dating to 170-210, made in Rome or in some cases Athens. These derive from Hellenistic monuments from Pergamon in Asia Minor showing Pergamene victories over the Gauls, and were all presumably commissioned for military commanders. The Portonaccio sarcophagus is the best known and most elaborate of the main Antonine group, and shows both considerable similarities to the Great Ludovisi sarcophagus, the late outlier from about 250, and a considerable contrast in style and mood.\n\nThe face of the general is unfinished, either because the sculptors awaited a model to work from, or they had produced the work speculatively with no specific commission. The general and his wife are also each shown twice on the lid frieze, together holding each other's hands at the centre, and singly at the ends, again with unfinished faces.\nThe unusually large Ludovisi Battle sarcophagus shows a chaotic battle scene between the Romans and barbarian foes. At the centre, a young general wears no helmet nor wields any weapon and has emblem of Mithras, the Persian god of light, truth, and victory over death carved into his forehead. Several scholars have identified him as one of the sons of Trajan Decius, who died of plague.\n\nA sarcophagus from the church of Santa Maria Antiqua with philosopher, orant, and Old and New Testament scenes is Early Christian art in which displays the story of Jonah on the left one-third, heads of a praying woman and a seated man reading from a scroll which are unfinished (intended to be portraits of the deceased) in the center, and continuing on, Christ as Good Shepherd, and the baptism of Christ.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "66640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66640", "title": "Arnold J. Toynbee", "text": "Arnold J. Toynbee\n\nArnold Joseph Toynbee, (; 14 April 1889 – 22 October 1975) was a British historian, philosopher of history, research professor of international history at the London School of Economics and the University of London and author of numerous books. Toynbee in the 1918–1950 period was a leading specialist on international affairs.\n\nHe is best known for his 12-volume \"A Study of History\" (1934–1961). With his prodigious output of papers, articles, speeches and presentations, and numerous books translated into many languages, Toynbee was a widely read and discussed scholar in the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nToynbee (born in London on 14 April 1889) was the son of Harry Valpy Toynbee (1861–1941), secretary of the Charity Organization Society, and his wife Sarah Edith Marshall (1859–1939); his sister Jocelyn Toynbee was an archaeologist and art historian. Toynbee was the grandson of Joseph Toynbee, nephew of the 19th-century economist Arnold Toynbee (1852–1883) and descendant of prominent British intellectuals for several generations. He won scholarships to Winchester College and Balliol College, Oxford (Literae Humaniores, 1907-1911), and studied briefly at the British School at Athens, an experience that influenced the genesis of his philosophy about the decline of civilizations. \n\nIn 1912 he became a tutor and fellow in ancient history at Balliol College, and in 1915 he began working for the intelligence department of the British Foreign Office. After serving as a delegate to the Paris Peace Conference in 1919 he served as professor of Byzantine and modern Greek studies at the University of London. It was here that Toynbee was appointed to the Koraes Chair of Modern Greek and Byzantine History, Language and Literature at King's College, although he would ultimately resign following a controversial academic dispute with the professoriate of the College. From 1921 to 1922 he was the Manchester Guardian correspondent during the Greco-Turkish War, an experience that resulted in the publication of \"The Western Question in Greece and Turkey\". In 1925 he became research professor of international history at the London School of Economics and director of studies at the Royal Institute of International Affairs in London. He was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the United Kingdoms national academy for the humanities and social sciences, in 1937.\n\nHis first marriage was to Rosalind Murray (1890–1967), daughter of Gilbert Murray, in 1913; they had three sons, of whom Philip Toynbee was the second. They divorced in 1946; Toynbee then married his research assistant, Veronica M. Boulter (1893-1980), in the same year. He died on 22 October 1975, age 86.\n\nMichael Lang says that for much of the twentieth century: \nIn his best-known work, \"A Study of History\", published 1934–1961, Toynbee:\n\n...examined the rise and fall of 26 civilizations in the course of human history, and he concluded that they rose by responding successfully to challenges under the leadership of creative minorities composed of elite leaders.\n\"A Study of History\" was both a commercial and academic phenomenon. In the U.S. alone, more than seven thousand sets of the ten-volume edition had been sold by 1955. Most people, including scholars, relied on the very clear one-volume abridgement of the first six volumes by Somervell, which appeared in 1947; the abridgement sold over 300,000 copies in the U.S. The press printed innumerable discussions of Toynbee's work, not to mention there being countless lectures and seminars. Toynbee himself often participated. He appeared on the cover of \"Time\" magazine in 1947, with an article describing his work as \"the most provocative work of historical theory written in England since Karl Marx’s \"Capital\"”, and was a regular commentator on BBC (examining the history of and reasons for the current hostility between east and west, and considering how non-westerners view the western world).\n\nCanadian historians were especially receptive to Toynbee's work in the late 1940s. The Canadian economic historian Harold Adams Innis (1894–1952) was a notable example. Following Toynbee and others (Spengler, Kroeber, Sorokin, Cochrane), Innis examined the flourishing of civilizations in terms of administration of empires and media of communication.\n\nToynbee's overall theory was taken up by some scholars, for example, Ernst Robert Curtius, as a sort of paradigm in the post-war period. Curtius wrote as follows in the opening pages of \"European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages\" (1953 English translation), following close on Toynbee, as he sets the stage for his vast study of medieval Latin literature. Curtius wrote, \"How do cultures, and the historical entities which are their media, arise, grow and decay? Only a comparative morphology with exact procedures can hope to answer these questions. It was Arnold J. Toynbee who undertook the task.\"\n\nAfter 1960, Toynbee's ideas faded both in academia and the media, to the point of seldom being cited today. However, his work continued to be referenced by classical historians, at least, because \"his training and surest touch is in the world of classical antiquity.\" His roots in classical literature are also manifested by similarities between his approach and that of classical historians such as Herodotus and Thucydides. Comparative history, by which his approach is often categorized, has been in the doldrums. Yet, in Jared Diamond's book \"Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed\" there are similarities between Toynbee's \"Challenge and Response\" theory and Diamond's analysis on how elites make decisions at critical moments. For example, Diamond writes in \"Collapse\" that if the elites are insulated from problems in society and not actively engaged, they are more apt to make mistakes. Thus, Diamond may be stating that elites can not mount effective responses to challenges if their knowledge, sympathy, or own self-interest are not sufficiently the same as the broader society.\n\n While the writing of the Study was under way, Toynbee produced numerous smaller works and served as director of foreign research of the Royal Institute of International Affairs (1939–43) and director of the research department of the Foreign Office (1943–46); he also retained his position at the London School of Economics until his retirement in 1956.\nToynbee worked for the Political Intelligence Department of the British Foreign Office during World War I and served as a delegate to the Paris Peace Conference in 1919. He was director of studies at Chatham House, Balliol College, Oxford University, 1924–43. Chatham House conducted research for the British Foreign Office and was an important intellectual resource during World War II when it was transferred to London. With his research assistant, Veronica M. Boulter, Toynbee was co-editor of the RIIA's annual \"Survey of International Affairs,\" which became the \"bible\" for international specialists in Britain.\n\nWhile on a visit in Berlin in 1936 to address the Nazi Law Society, Toynbee was invited to have a private interview with Adolf Hitler, at Hitler's request. Hitler emphasized his limited expansionist aim of building a greater German nation, and his desire for British understanding and cooperation. Toynbee believed that Hitler was sincere and endorsed Hitler's message in a confidential memorandum for the British prime minister and foreign secretary.\n\nToynbee was troubled by the Russian Revolution, for he saw Russia as a non-Western society and the revolution as a threat to Western society. However, in 1952 he argued that the Soviet Union had been a victim of Western aggression. He portrayed the Cold War as a religious competition that pitted a Marxist materialist heresy against the West's spiritual Christian heritage—a heritage that had already been foolishly rejected by a secularized West. A heated debate ensued; an editorial in \"The Times\" promptly attacked Toynbee for treating communism as a \"spiritual force\".\n\nToynbee was a leading analyst of developments in the Middle East. His support for Greece and hostility to the Turks during World War I had gained him an appointment to the Koraes Chair of Modern Greek and Byzantine History at King's College, University of London. However, after the war he changed to a pro-Turkish position, accusing Greece's military government in occupied Turkish territory of atrocities and massacres. This earned him the enmity of the wealthy Greeks who had endowed the chair, and in 1924 he was forced to resign the position.\n\nHis stance during World War I reflected less sympathy for the Arab cause and took a pro-Zionist outlook. He also expressed support for a Jewish State in Palestine, which he believed had \"begun to recover its ancient prosperity\" as a result. Toynbee investigated Zionism in 1915 at the Information Department of the Foreign Office, and in 1917 he published a memorandum with his colleague Lewis Namier which supported exclusive Jewish political rights in Palestine. In 1922, however, he was influenced by the Palestine Arab delegation which was visiting London, and began to adopt their views. His subsequent writings reveal his changing outlook on the subject, and by the late 1940s he had moved away from the Zionist cause and toward the Arab camp.\n\nThe views Toynbee expressed in the 1950s continued to oppose the formation of a Jewish state, partly out of his concern that it would increase the risk of a nuclear confrontation. However, as a result of Toynbee's debate in January 1961 with Dr. Yaakov Herzog, the Israeli ambassador to Canada, Toynbee softened his view and called on Israel to fulfill its special \"mission to make contributions to worldwide efforts to prevent the outbreak of nuclear war.\" In his article \"Jewish Rights in Palestine\", he challenged the views of the editor of the Jewish Quarterly Review, historian and talmudic scholar Solomon Zeitlin, who published his rebuke, \"Jewish Rights in Eretz Israel (Palestine)\" in the same issue. Toynbee maintained, among other contentions, that the Jewish people have neither historic nor legal claims to Palestine, stating that the Arab\nIn 1972, Toynbee met with Daisaku Ikeda, president of Soka Gakkai International (SGI), who condemned the \"demonic nature\" of the use of nuclear weapons under any circumstances. Toynbee had the view that the atomic bomb was an invention that had caused warfare to escalate from a political scale to catastrophic proportions and threatened humanity's very existence. In his dialogue with Ikeda, Toynbee stated his worry that humankind would not be able to strengthen ethical behavior and achieve self-mastery \"in spite of the widespread awareness that the price of failing to respond to the moral challenge of the atomic age may be the self-liquidation of our species.\"\n\nThe two men first met on 5 May 1972 in London. In May 1973, Ikeda again flew to London to meet with Toynbee for 40 hours over a period of 10 days. Their dialogue and ongoing correspondence culminated in the publication of \"Choose Life\", a record of their views on critical issues confronting humanity. The book has been published in 24 languages to date. Toynbee also wrote the foreword to the English edition of Ikeda's best-known book, \"The Human Revolution\", which has sold more than 7 million copies worldwide.\n\nAn exhibition celebrating the 30th anniversary of Toynbee and Ikeda's first meeting was presented in SGI's centers around the world in 2005, showcasing contents of the dialogues between them, as well as Ikeda's discussions for peace with over 1,500 of the world's scholars, intellects, and activists. Original letters Toynbee and Ikeda exchanged were also displayed.\n\nIn 1984 his granddaughter Polly Toynbee wrote a critical article for \"The Guardian\" on meeting Daisaku Ikeda.\n\nWith the civilizations as units identified, he presented the history of each in terms of challenge-and-response, sometimes referred to as theory about the law of challenge and response. Civilizations arose in response to some set of challenges of extreme difficulty, when \"creative minorities\" devised solutions that reoriented their entire society. Challenges and responses were physical, as when the Sumerians exploited the intractable swamps of southern Iraq by organizing the Neolithic inhabitants into a society capable of carrying out large-scale irrigation projects; or social, as when the Catholic Church resolved the chaos of post-Roman Europe by enrolling the new Germanic kingdoms in a single religious community. When a civilization responded to challenges, it grew. Civilizations disintegrate when their leaders stopped responding creatively, and the civilizations then sank owing to nationalism, militarism, and the tyranny of a despotic minority. According to an Editor's Note in an edition of Toynbee's \"A Study of History,\" Toynbee believed that societies always die from suicide or murder rather than from natural causes, and nearly always from suicide. He sees the growth and decline of civilizations as a spiritual process, writing that \"Man achieves civilization, not as a result of superior biological endowment or geographical environment, but as a response to a challenge in a situation of special difficulty which rouses him to make a hitherto unprecedented effort.\" \n\nNamed after Arnold J. Toynbee, the [Toynbee Prize] Foundation was chartered in 1987 'to contribute to the development of the social sciences, as defined from a broad historical view of human society and of human and social problems.' In addition to awarding the Toynbee Prize, the foundation sponsors scholarly engagement with global history through sponsorship of sessions at the annual meeting of the American Historical Association, of international conferences, of the journal \"New Global Studies\" and of the Global History Forum.\n\nThe Toynbee Prize is an honorary award, recognizing social scientists for significant academic and public contributions to humanity. Currently, it is awarded every other year for work that makes a significant contribution to the study of global history. The recipients have been Raymond Aron, Lord Kenneth Clark, Sir Ralf Dahrendorf, Natalie Zemon Davis, Albert Hirschman, George Kennan, Bruce Mazlish, John McNeill, William McNeill, Jean-Paul Sartre, Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., Barbara Ward, Lady Jackson, Sir Brian Urquhart, Michael Adas, Christopher Bayly, and Jürgen Osterhammel.\n\nToynbee's ideas also feature in the Ray Bradbury short story named \"The Toynbee Convector\". He appears alongside T. E. Lawrence as a character in an episode of \"The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles\", dealing with the post-World War I treaty negotiations at Versailles. He also receives a brief mention in the Charles Harness classic, \"The Paradox Men\" (a working title was \"Toynbee 22\"). Frederick Buechner also mentions him in the 1957 novel \"The return of Ansel Gibbs\". Most versions of the \"Civilization\" computer game refer to his work as a historian as well. Toynbee receives mention in Pat Frank's post-apocalyptic novel \"Alas, Babylon\". A character in the P. Schuyler Miller short story \"As Never Was\" adopts the name Toynbee \"out of admiration for a historian of that name\". He is also mentioned in the Tom Robbins novel, \"Another Roadside Attraction\". The Toynbee tiles may be a reference to Toynbee.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1303657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303657", "title": "Autoethnography", "text": "Autoethnography\n\nAutoethnography is a form of qualitative research in which an author uses self-reflection and writing to explore anecdotal and personal experience and connect this autobiographical story to wider cultural, political, and social meanings and understandings. Autoethnography is a self-reflective form of writing used across various disciplines such as communication studies, performance studies, education, English literature, anthropology, social work, sociology, history, psychology, religious studies, marketing, business and educational administration, arts education, and physiotherapy.\n\nAccording to Maréchal (2010), \"autoethnography is a form or method of research that involves self-observation and reflexive investigation in the context of ethnographic field work and writing\" (p. 43). A well-known autoethnographer, Carolyn Ellis (2004) defines it as \"research, writing, story, and method that connect the autobiographical and personal to the cultural, social, and political\" (p. xix). However, it is not easy to reach a consensus on the term's definition. For instance, in the 1970s, autoethnography was more narrowly defined as \"insider ethnography,\" referring to studies of the (culture of) a group of which the researcher is a member (Hayano, 1979). Nowadays, however, as Ellingson and Ellis (2008) point out, \"the meanings and applications of autoethnography have evolved in a manner that makes precise definition difficult\" (p. 449).\n\nAccording to Adams, Jones, and Ellis in \"Autoethnography: Understanding Qualitative Research\", \"Autoethnography is a research method that: Uses a researcher's personal experience to describe and critique cultural beliefs, practices, and experiences. Acknowledges and values a researcher's relationships with others. . . . Shows 'people in the process of figuring out what to do, how to live, and the meaning of their struggles'\" (Adams, 2015). \"Social life is messy, uncertain, and emotional. If our desire to research social life, then we must embrace a research method that, to the best of its/our ability, acknowledges and accommodates mess and chaos, uncertainty and emotion\" (Adams, 2015).\n\n1970s: The term autoethnography was used to describe studies in which cultural members provide insight about their own cultures. Walter Goldschmidt proposed that all \"autoethnography\" is focused around the self and reveals, \"personal investments, interpretations, and analyses.\" David M. Hayano was an Associate Professor of Anthropology at California State University in Northridge. As an anthropologist, Hayano was interested in the role that an individual's own identity had in their research. Unlike more traditional research methods, Hayano believed there was value in a researcher \"conducting and writing ethnographies of their own people.\" \n\n1980s: Scholars became interested in the importance of culture and storytelling as they gradually became more engaged through the personal aspects in ethnographic practices. At the end of the 1980s, the scholars applied the term \"autoethnography\" to work that explored the interplay of introspective, personally engaged selves and cultural beliefs, practices, systems, and experiences.\n\n1990s: Emphasis began to be heavily placed on personal narratives and expansion of \"autoethnography\" use. Series such as \"Ethnographic Alternatives\" and the first \"Handbook of Qualitative Research\" were published to better explain the importance of autoethnographic use..\n\nAutoethnography differs from ethnography, a social research method employed by anthropologists and sociologists, in that autoethnography embraces and foregrounds the researcher's subjectivity rather than attempting to limit it, as in empirical research. While ethnography tends to be understood as a qualitative method in the social sciences that describes human social phenomena based on fieldwork, autoethnographers are themselves the primary participant/subject of the research in the process of writing personal stories and narratives. Autoethnography \"as a form of ethnography,\" Ellis (2004) writes, is \"part \"auto\" or self and part \"ethno\" or culture\" (p. 31) and \"something different from both of them, greater than its parts\" (p. 32). In other words, as Ellingson and Ellis (2008) put it, \"whether we call a work an \"autoethnography\" or an \"ethnography\" depends as much on the claims made by authors as anything else\" (p. 449).\n\nIn embracing personal thoughts, feelings, stories, and observations as a way of understanding the social context they are studying, autoethnographers are also shedding light on their total interaction with that setting by making their every emotion and thought visible to the reader. This is much the opposite of theory-driven, hypothesis-testing research methods that are based on the positivist epistemology. In this sense, Ellingson and Ellis (2008) see autoethnography as a social constructionist project that rejects the deep-rooted binary oppositions between the researcher and the researched, objectivity and subjectivity, process and product, self and others, art and science, and the personal and the political (pp. 450–459). Dr Ian McCormick has outlined many of the benefits of combining visual technologies (such as film) with participant-led community development.\n\nAutoethnographers, therefore, tend to reject the concept of social research as an objective and neutral knowledge produced by scientific methods, which can be characterized and achieved by detachment of the researcher from the researched. Autoethnography, in this regard, is a critical \"response to the alienating effects on both researchers and audiences of impersonal, passionless, abstract claims of truth generated by such research practices and clothed in exclusionary scientific discourse\" (Ellingson & Ellis, 2008, p. 450). Anthropologist Deborah Reed-Danahay (1997) also argues that autoethnography is a postmodernist construct:\nThe concept of autoethnography…synthesizes both a postmodern ethnography, in which the realist conventions and objective observer position of standard ethnography have been called into question, and a postmodern autobiography, in which the notion of the coherent, individual self has been similarly called into question. The term has a double sense - referring either to the ethnography of one's own group or to autobiographical writing that has ethnographic interest. Thus, either a self- (auto-) ethnography or an autobiographical (auto-) ethnography can be signaled by \"autoethnography. (p. 2)\nSince autoethnography is a broad and ambiguous \"category that encompasses a wide array of practices\" (Ellingson & Ellis, 2008, pp. 449–450), autoethnographies \"vary in their emphasis on the writing and research process (\"graphy\"), culture (\"ethnos\"), and self (\"auto\")\" (Reed-Danahay, 1997, p. 2). According to Ellingson and Ellis (2008), autoethnographers recently began to make distinction between two types of autoethnography; one is analytic autoethnography and the other is evocative autoethnography.\nAnalytic autoethnographers focus on developing theoretical explanations of broader social phenomena, whereas evocative autoethnographers focus on narrative presentations that open up conversations and evoke emotional responses. (p. 445)\nA special issue of the \"Journal of Contemporary Ethnography\" (Vol 35, Issue 4, August 2006) contains several articles on the diverse definitions and uses of autoethnography. An autoethnography can be analytical (see Leon Anderson), written in the style of a novel (see Carolyn Ellis's methodological novel \"The Ethnographic I\"), performative (see the work of Norman K. Denzin, and the anthology \"The Ends of Performance\") and many things in between.\n\nSymbolic interactionists are particularly interested in this method, and examples of autoethnography can be found in a number of scholarly journals, such as \"Qualitative Inquiry\", the \"Journal of the Society for the Study of Symbolic Interactionism\", the \"Journal of Contemporary Ethnography\", and the \"Journal of Humanistic Ethnography\". It is not considered \"mainstream\" as a method by most positivist or traditional ethnographers, yet this approach to qualitative inquiry is rapidly increasing in popularity, as can be seen by the large number of scholarly papers on autoethnography presented at annual conferences such as the International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry, and the Advances in Qualitative Methods conference sponsored by the International Institute of Qualitative Methodology. The spread of autoethnography into other fields is also growing (e.g., psychology), and a recent special issue of the journal \"Culture and Organization\" (Volume 13, Issue 3, Summer 2007) explores the idea of organizational autoethnography.\n\nAutoethnography in performance studies acknowledges the researcher and the audience having equal weight. Portraying the performed \"self\" through writing then becomes an aim to create an embodied experience for the writer and the reader. This area acknowledges the inward and outward experience of ethnography in experiencing the subjectivity of the author. Audience members may experience the work of ethnography through reading/hearing/feeling (inward) and then have a reaction to it (outward), maybe by emotion. Ethnography and performance work together to invoke emotion in the reader.\n\nHigher education is also featuring more as the contextual backdrop for autoethnography probably due to the convenience of researching one's own organisation (see Sambrook, Stewart, & Roberts, 2008; Doloriert & Sambrook, 2009, 2011). Such contributions explore the autoethnographer as a researcher/ teacher/ administrator doing scholarly work and/or as an employee working in Higher Education. Recent contributions include Humphreys' (2005) exploration of career change, Pelias' (2003) performance narrative telling of the competing pressures faced by an early career academic and Sparkes' (2007) heartfelt story of an academic manager during the stressful Research Assessment Exercise (2008). There are several contributions that are insightful for the student autoethnographer including Sambrook, et al. (2008) who explore power and emotion in the student-supervisor relationship, Doloriert and Sambrook (2009) who explore the ethics of the student autoreveal, Rambo (2007) and her experiences with review boards, and finally Doloriert & Sambrook (2011) discussion on managing creativity and innovation within a PhD thesis.\n\nResearchers have begun to explore the intersection of diversity, transformative learning, and autoethnography. Glowacki-Dudka, Treff, and Usman (2005) first proposed autoethnography as a tool to encourage diverse learners to share diverse worldviews in the classroom and other settings. Both transformative learning and autoethnography are steeped in an epistemological worldview that reality is ever-changing and largely based on individual reflexivity. Drick Boyd (2008) examines the impact of white privilege on a diverse group of individuals. Through the autoethnographical process and transformative learning he comes to appreciate the impact of \"whiteness\" on his own actions and those of others. Similarly, Brent Sykes (2014) employs autoethnography to make meaning of his identity as both Native American and caucasian. In his implications, he challenges higher education institutions and educators to provide spaces for learners to engage in autoethnography as a tool to promote transformative learning.\n\nAnother recent extension of autoethnographic method involves the use of collaborative approaches to writing, sharing, and analyzing personal stories of experience. This approach is also labeled \"collaborative autobiography\" (Allen-Collinson & Hockey, 2001; Lapadat, 2009), and has been used in teaching qualitative research methods to university students.\n\nAutoethnography is also used in film as a variant of the standard documentary film. It differs from the traditional documentary film, in that its subject is the filmmaker himself or herself. An autoethnography typically relates the life experiences and thoughts, views and beliefs of the filmmaker, and as such it is often considered to be rife with bias and image manipulation. Unlike other documentaries, autoethnographies do not usually make a claim of objectivity. An important text on autoethnography in filmmaking is Catherine Russell's \"Experimental Ethnography: The Work of Film in the Age of Video\" (Duke UP, 1999). For Autoethnographic artists, see also Jesse Cornplanter, Kimberly Dark, Peter Pitseolak, Ernest Spybuck.\n\nAutoethnography is being used in multiple subdisciplines in Communication and Media Studies. For example, Bob Krizek took an autoethnographic approach to sports communication during the closing of Comisky Park. Tony Adams utilized autoethnography to examine gay identity and the metaphor of \"coming out of the closet.\" Andrew F. Herrmann examined a period of unemployment during the financial crisis through an autoethnographic approach. Autoethnographic approaches are also being used in family and interpersonal communication research.\n\nAutoethnography is being used to examine popular culture artifacts and our relationships with pop culture. As Herrmann (2013) wrote, \"Our identities and identifications with popular culture artifacts assist in our creation of self. Our identities and pop culture have a long-term recursive relationship\" (p. 7). Jimmie Manning and Tony Adams (2015) noted five strengths for autoethnographic approaches to popular culture, including \"1) use personal experience to write alongside popular culture theories and texts, especially to show how personal experiences resemble or are informed by popular culture; 2) use personal experience to criticize, write against, and talk back to popular culture texts, especially texts that do not match their personal experiences or that espouse harmful messages; 3) describe how they personally act as audience members, specifically how they use, engage, and relate to popular texts, events, and/or celebrities; 4) describe the processes that contribute to the production of popular culture texts; and 5) create accessible research texts that can be understood by a variety of audiences.\" (p. 199-200). Autoethnographer Robyn Boylorn examined televised media and the representations of race. Jimmie Manning used autoethnography to examine polymediated narrative and relationships in reference to \"catfishing.\"\n\nSimilarly, autoethnography is becoming more widely accepted as a method by which to study organizations. According to Parry and Boyle, organizational autoethnography illuminates the relationship between the individual and the organization, especially culture as it is practiced and understood within institutional and organizational settings. As Maree Boyle and Ken Parry noted, \"organizational autoethnographies can provide first-hand accounts of taboo topics such as sexual harassment and bullying, motherhood at work, various moral dilemmas and highly charged emotional situations in the workplace\" (p. 189). In one early organizational autoethnography, Kathy Miller (2002) presented a how one professor continued to be a professor after a bonfire incident at Texas A & M, which killed twelve people. In her 2015 article, Shawna Redden (2015) explores the impacts of moving from a storyteller to a \"story-told-about\" position in a near fatal airplane accident. Examining a non-profit arts center, Herrmann (2011) examined cooptation and reistance of various economic discourses by organizational volunteers. In her layered account, Vickers (2007) explored her experiences of workplace bullying. Herrmann, Barnhill, and Poole (2013) wrote a co-authored autoethnography of their experiences and impressions at an academic conference.\n\nIn different academic disciplines (particularly communication studies and performance studies), the term autoethnography itself is contested and is sometimes used interchangeably with or referred to as personal narrative or autobiography. Autoethnographic methods include journaling, looking at archival records - whether institutional or personal, interviewing one's own self, and using writing to generate a self-cultural understandings. Reporting an autoethnography might take the form of a traditional journal article or scholarly book, performed on the stage, or be seen in the popular press. Autoethnography can include direct (and participant) observation of daily behavior; unearthing of local beliefs and perception and recording of life history (e.g. kinship, education, etc.); and in-depth interviewing: \"The analysis of data involves interpretation on the part of the researcher\" (Hammersley in Genzuk). However, rather than a portrait of the Other (person, group, culture), the difference is that the researcher is constructing a portrait of the self.\n\nAutoethnography can also be \"associated with narrative inquiry and autobiography\" (Maréchal, 2010, p. 43) in that it foregrounds experience and story as a meaning-making enterprise. Maréchal argues that \"narrative inquiry can provoke identification, feelings, emotions, and dialogue\" (p. 45). Furthermore, the increased focus on incorporating autoethnography and Narrative Inquiry into qualitative research indicates a growing concern for how the style of academic writing informs the types of claims made. As Laurel Richardson articulates \"I consider writing as a method of inquiry, a way of finding out about a topic...form and content are inseparable\" (2000, p. 923). For many researchers, experimenting with alternative forms of writing and reporting, including autoethnography, personal narrative, performative writing, layered accounts and writing stories, provides a way to create multiple layered accounts of a research study, creating not only the opportunity to create new and provocative claims but also the ability to do so in a compelling manner. Ellis (2004) says that autoethnographers advocate \"the conventions of literary writing and expression\" in that \"autoethnographic forms feature concrete action, emotion, embodiment, self-consciousness, and introspection portrayed in dialogue, scenes, characterization, and plot\" (p. xix).\n\nAccording to Bochner and Ellis (2006), an autoethnographer is \"first and foremost a communicator and a storyteller.\" In other words, autoethnography \"depicts people struggling to overcome adversity\" and shows \"people in the process of figuring out what to do, how to live, and the meaning of their struggles\" (p. 111). Therefore, according to them, autoethnography is \"ethical practice\" and \"gifts\" that has a caregiving function (p. 111). In essence autoethnography is a story that re-enacts an experience by which people find meaning and through that meaning are able to be okay with that experience.\n\nIn Dewan's (2017) opinion this can be a problem because many readers may see us as being too self-indulgent but they have to realise that our stories and experiences we share are not solely ours, but rather that they also represent the group we are autoethnographically representing \n\nIn this storytelling process, the researcher seeks to make meaning of a disorienting experience. A life example in which autoethnography could be applied is the death of a family member or someone close by. In this painful experience people often wonder how they will go about living without this person and what it will be like. In this scenario, especially in religious homes, one often asks \"Why God?\" thinking that with an answer as to why the person died they can go about living. Others, wanting to be able to offer up an explanation to make the person feel better, generally say things such as \"At least they are in a better place.\" or \"God wanted him/her home.\". People, who are never really left with an explanation as to why, generally fall back on the reason that \"it was their time to go\" and through this somewhat \"explanation\" find themselves able to move on and keep living life. Over time when looking back at the experience of someone close to you dying, one may find that through this hardship they became a stronger more independent person, or that they grew closer to other family members. With these realizations, the person has actually made sense of and has become fine with the tragic experience that occurred. And through this autoethnography is performed.\n\nThe main critique of autoethnography — and qualitative research in general — comes from the traditional social science methods that emphasize the objectivity of social research. In this critique, qualitative researchers are often called \"journalists, or soft scientists,\" and their work, including autoethnography, is \"termed unscientific, or only exploratory, or entirely personal and full of bias\". Many quantitative researchers regard the materials produced by narrative as \"the means by which a narrating subject, autonomous and independent...can achieve authenticity...This represents an almost total failure to use narrative to achieve serious social analysis\".\n\nAccording to Maréchal (2010), the early criticism of autobiographical methods in anthropology was about \"their validity on grounds of being unrepresentative and lacking objectivity\". She also points out that evocative and emotional genres of autoethnography have been criticized by mostly analytic proponents for their \"lack of ethnographic relevance as a result of being too personal.\" As she writes, they are criticized \"for being biased, navel-gazing, self-absorbed, or emotionally incontinent, and for hijacking traditional ethnographic purposes and scholarly contribution\".\n\nThe reluctance to accept narrative work as serious extends far beyond the realm of academia. In 1994, Arlene Croce refused to evaluate or even attend Bill T. Jones \"Still/Here\" performance. She echoed a quantitative stance towards narrative research by explaining\nI can't review someone I feel sorry or hopeless about...I'm \"forced\" to feel sorry because of the way they present themselves as: dissed blacks, abused women, or disenfranchised homosexuals - as performers, in short, who make victimhood victim art\nCroce illustrates what Tony E. Adams, Stacy Holman Jones, and Carolyn Ellis refer to as \"illusory boundaries and borders between scholarship and criticism\". These \"borders\" are seen to hide or take away from the idea that autoethnographic evaluation and criticism present another personal story about the experience of an experience. Or as Craig Gingrich-Philbrook wrote, \"any evaluation of autoethnography...is simply another story from a highly situated, privileged, empowered subject about something he or she experienced\".\n\nProminent philosopher of science, Karl Popper, when claiming that falsifiability was a basic criteria of a scientific theory said:A theory is falsifiable ... if there exists at least one non-empty class of homotypic basic statements which are forbidden by itAs autoethnography makes no claims that can be verified, it is no longer falsifiable. Under this criterion, autoethnography becomes pseudoscience.\n\nIn her book's tenth chapter, titled \"Evaluating and Publishing Autoethnography\" (pp. 252~255), Ellis (2004) discusses how to evaluate an autoethnographic project, based on other authors' ideas about evaluating alternative modes of qualitative research. (See the special section in \"Qualitative Inquiry\" on \"Assessing Alternative Modes of Qualitative and Ethnographic Research: How Do We Judge? Who Judges?\") She presents several criteria for \"good autoethnography\" mentioned by Bochner (2000), Clough (2000), Denzin (2000) and Richardson (2000), and indicates how these ideas resonate with each other.\n\nFirst, Ellis mentions Laurel Richardson (2000, pp. 15–16) who described five factors she uses when reviewing personal narrative papers that includes analysis of both evaluative and constructive validity techniques. The criteria are:\n\nAutoethnographic manuscripts might include dramatic recall, unusual phrasing, and strong metaphors to invite the reader to \"relive\" events with the author. These guidelines may provide a framework for directing investigators and reviewers alike.\nFurther, Ellis suggests how Richardson's criteria mesh with criteria mentioned by Bochner who describes what makes him understand and feel with a story. (Bochner, 2000, pp. 264~266) He looks for concrete details (similar to Richardson's expression of lived experience), structurally complex narratives (Richardson's aesthetic merit), author's attempt to dig under the superficial to get to vulnerability and honesty (Richardson's reflexivity), a standard of ethical self-consciousness (Richardson's substantive contribution), and a moving story (Richardson's impact) (Ellis, 2004, pp. 253~254).\n\nIn 2015, Ellis, Adams, and Jones collaborated to bring about a similar list of Goals for Assessing Autoethnography. The list takes encompasses descriptive, prescriptive, practical, and theoretical goals for evaluating autoethnographic work.\n\n\nAdams, Ellis, and Jones define the first goal of autoethnography as a conscious effort to \"extend existing knowledge and research while recognizing that knowledge is both situated and contested\". As Adams explains in his critique of his work \"Narrating the Closet\"\n\nI knew I had to contribute to knowledge about coming out by saying something new about the experience...I also needed a new angle toward coming out; my experience, alone, of coming out was not sufficient to justify a narrative.\nWith the critic's general decree of narrative as narcissism, Adams, Jones, and Ellis use the first goal of assessing autoethnography to explain the importance of striving to combine personal experience and existing theory while remaining mindful of the \"insider insight that autoethnography offers researchers, participants, and readers/audiences\". Ellis' \"Maternal Connections\" can be considered a successful incorporation of the first goal in that she \"questions the idea of care-giving as a burden, instead of portraying caregiving as a loving and meaning-making relationship\".\n\nAdams, Jones, and Ellis define the second goal for assessing autoethnography with four elements which include \"featuring the perspective of the self in context and culture, exploring experience as a means of insight about social life, embracing the risks of presenting vulnerable selves in research, and using emotions and bodily experience as means and modes of understanding\". This goal fully recognizes and commends the \"I\" in academic writing and calls for analysis of the subjective experience. In Jones' \"Lost and Found\" essay she writes, \n\nI convey the sadness and the joy I feel about my relationships with my adopted child, the child I chose not to adopt, and my grandmother. I focus on the emotions and bodily experiences of both losing and memorializing my grandmother'\n\nThe careful and deliberate incorporation of \"auto\" (the \"I\", the self) into research is considered one of the most crucial aspects of the autoethnography process. The exploration of the ethics and care of presenting vulnerable selves is addressed at length by Adams in \"A Review of Narrative Ethics\".\n\nAutoethnography showcases stories as the means in which sensemaking and researcher reflexivity create descriptions and critiques of culture. Adams, Jones, and Ellis write: \n\nReflexivity includes both acknowledging and critiquing our place and privilege in society and using the stories we tell to \"break long-held silences\" on power, relationships, cultural taboos, and forgotten and/or suppressed experiences.\n\nA focus is placed a writer's ability to develop writing and representation skills alongside other analytic abilities. Adams switches between first-person and second-person narrationin \"Living (In) the Closet: The Time of Being Closeted\" as a way to \"bring readers into my story, inviting them to live my experiences alongside me, feeling how I felt and suggesting how they might, under similar circumstances, act as I did\". Similarly, Ellis in \"Maternal Connections\" chose to steer away from the inclusion of references to the research literature or theory instead opting to \"call on sensory details, movements, emotions, dialogue, and scene setting to convey an experience of taking care of a parent\".\nThe examples included above are incomplete. Autoethnographers exploring different narrative structures can be seen in Andrew Herrmann's use of layered accounts, Ellis' use of haibun, and the use of autoethnographic film by Rebecca Long and Anne Harris.\n\nAmong the concepts in qualitative research is \"relational responsibility\". Researchers should work to make research relationships as collaborative, committed, and reciprocal as possible while taking care to safeguard identities and privacy of participants. Included under this concept is the accessibility of the work to a variety of readers which allows for the \"opportunity to engage and improve the lives of our selves, participants, and readers/audiences\".\nAutoethnographers struggle with relational responsibility as in Adams' critique of his work on coming out and recognizing:\n\n...how others can perceive my ideas as \"relationally irresponsible\" concessions to homophobic others and to insidious heteronormative cultural structures; by \"not\" being aggressively critical, my work does not do enough to \"engage\" and \"improve\" the lives of others \n\nIn the critique he also questions how relationally irresponsible he was by including several brief conversations in his work without consent and exploited other's experiences for his own benefit. Similar sentiments are echoed throughout Adams, Jones, and Ellis critiques of their own writing.\n\nAs an idea that emerged from the tradition of social constructionism and interpretive paradigm, autoethnography challenges the traditional social scientific methodology that emphasizes the criteria for quality in social research developed in terms of validity. Carolyn Ellis writes, \"In autoethnographic work, I look at validity in terms of what happens to readers as well as to research participants and researchers. To me, validity means that our work seeks verisimilitude; it evokes in readers a feeling that the experience described is lifelike, believable, and possible. You also can judge validity by whether it helps readers communicate with others different from themselves or offers a way to improve the lives of participants and readers- or even your own.\" (Ellis, 2004, p. 124). In this sense, Ellis (2004) emphasizes the \"narrative truth\" for autoethnographic writings.\nI believe you should try to construct the story as close to the experience as you can remember it, especially in the initial version. If you do, it will help you work through the meaning and purpose of the story. But it's not so important that narratives represent lives accurately – only, as Art(Arthur Bochner) argues, \"that narrators believe they are doing so\" (Bochner, 2002, p. 86). Art believes that we can judge one narrative interpretation of events against another, but we cannot measure a narrative against the events themselves because the meaning of the events comes clear only in their narrative expression. (p.126)\nInstead, Ellis suggests to judge (autoethnographic writings) on the usefulness of the story, (Bochner, 2001) rather than only on accuracy. (Ellis, 2004, p. 126) Art argues that the real questions is what narratives do, what consequences they have, to what uses they can be put. Narrative is the way we remember the past, turn life into language, and disclose to ourselves and others the truth of our experiences (Bochner, 2001). In moving from concern with the inner veridicality to outer pragmatics of evaluating stories, Plummer also looks at uses, functions, and roles of stories, and adds that they \"need to have rhetorical power enhanced by aesthetic delight\" (Plummer, 2001, p. 401).\n\nSimilarly, Laurel Richardson uses the metaphor of a crystal to deconstruct traditional validity (Richardson, 1997, p. 92). A crystal has an infinite number of shapes, dimensions and angles. It acts as a prism and changes shape, but still has structure. Another writer, Patti Lather, proposes counter-practices of authority that rupture validity as a \"regime of truth\" (Lather, 1993, p .674) and lead to a critical political agenda (Olesen, 2000, p. 231). She mentions the four subtypes: \"ironic validity, concerning the problems of representation; paralogical validity, which honors differences and uncertainties; rhizomatic validity, which seeks out multiplicity; and voluptuous validity, which seeks out ethics through practices of engagement and self-reflexivity (Lather, 1993, pp. 685~686)\" (Ellis, 2004, pp. 124~125).\n\nWith regard to the term of \"generalizability\", Ellis (2004) points out that autoethnographic research seeks generalizability not just from the respondents but also from the readers. Ellis says, \"I would argue that a story's generalizability is always being tested – not in the traditional way through random samples of respondents, but by readers as they determine if a story speaks to them about their experience or about the lives of others they know. Readers provide theoretical validation by comparing their lives to ours, by thinking about how our lives are similar and different and the reasons why. Some stories inform readers about unfamiliar people or lives. We can ask, after Stake, \"does the story have 'naturalistic generalization'?\" meaning that it brings \"felt\" news from one world to another and provides opportunities for the reader to have vicarious experience of the things told (Stake, 1994). The focus of generalizability moves from respondents to readers (p.195). This generalizability through the resonance of readers' lives and \"lived experience\" (Richardson, 1997) in autoethnographic work, intends to open up rather than close down conversation (Ellis, 2004, p. 22).\n\nDenzin's criterion is whether the work has the possibility to change the world and make it a better place (Denzin, 2000, p. 256). This position fits with Clough, who argues that good autoethnographic writing should motivate cultural criticism. Autoethnographic writing should be closely aligned with theoretical reflection, says Clough, so that it can serve as a vehicle for thinking \"new sociological subjects\" and forming \"new parameters of the social\" (Clough, 2000, p. 290). Though Richardson and Bochner are less overtly political than Denzin and Clough, they indicate that good personal narratives should contribute to positive social change and move us to action (Bochner, 2000, p. 271).\n\nIn addition to helping the researcher make sense of his or her individual experience, autoethnographies are political in nature as they engage their readers in political issues and often ask us to consider things, or do things differently Chang (2008). argues that autoethnography offers a research method friendly to researchers and readers because autoethnographic texts are engaging and enable researchers to gain a cultural understanding of self in relation to others, on which cross-cultural coalition can be built between self and others.\n\nAlso, autoethnography as a genre frees us to move beyond traditional methods of writing, promoting narrative and poetic forms, displays of artifacts, photographs, drawings, and live performances (Cons, p. 449). Denzin says authoethnography must be literary, present cultural and political issues, and articulate a politics of hope. The literary criteria he mentions are covered in what Richardson advocates: aesthetic value (Richardson, 2000, p. 15). Ellis elaborates her idea in autoethnography as good writing that through the plot, dramatic tension, coherence, and verisimilitude, the author shows rather than tells, develops characters and scenes fully, and paints vivid sensory experiences.\n\nWhile advocating autoethnography for its value, some researchers argue that there are also several concerns about autoethnography. Chang (2008) warns autoethnographers of pitfalls that they should avoid in doing autoethnography: \"(1) excessive focus on self in isolation from others; (2) overemphasis on narration rather than analysis and cultural interpretation; (3) exclusive reliance on personal memory and recalling as a data source; (4) negligence of ethical standards regarding others in self-narratives; and (5) inappropriate application of the label autoethnography\" (p. 54).\n\nAlso some qualitative researchers have expressed their concerns about the worth and validity of autoethnography. Robert Krizek (2003) contributed a chapter titled \"Ethnography as the Excavation of Personal Narrative\" (pp. 141–152) to the book of \"Expressions of Ethnography\" in which he expresses concern about the possibility for autoethnography to devolve into narcissism. Krizek goes on to suggest that autoethnography, no matter how personal, should always connect to some larger element of life.\n\nThere are several critiques about evaluating autoethnographical works grounded in interpretive paradigm. First, some researchers have criticized that within qualitative research there are those that dismiss anything but positivist notions of validity and reliability. (see Doloriert and Sambrook, 2011, pp. 593–595) For example, Schwandt (1996, p. 60) argues that some social researchers have \"come to equate being rational in social science with being procedural and criteriological.\" Building on quantitative foundations, Lincoln and Guba (1985) translate quantitative indicators into qualitative quality indicators, namely: credibility (parallels internal validity), transferability (parallels external validity), dependability (parallels reliability), and confirmability (parallels objectivity and seeks to critically examine whether the researcher has acted in good faith during the course of the research). Smith (1984) and Smith and Heshusius (1986) critique these qualitative translations and warn that the claim of compatibility (between qualitative and quantitative criteria) cannot be sustained and by making such claims researches are in effect closing down the conversation. Smith (1984, p. 390) points out that\nWhat is clear . . . is that the assumptions of interpretive inquiry are incompatible with the desire for foundational criteria. How we are to work out this problem, one way or another, would seem to merit serious attention.\nSecondly, some other researchers questions the need for specific criteria itself. Bochner (2000) and Clough (2000) both are concerned that too much emphasis on criteria will move us back to methodological policing and will takes us away from a focus on imagination, ethical issues in autographic work, and creating better ways of living. (Bochner, 2000a, p. 269) The autoethnographer internally judges its quality. Evidence is tacit, individualistic, and subjective (see Richardson, 2000; Holman Jones, 2005; Ellis & Bochner, 2003). Practice-based quality is based in the lived research experience itself rather than in its formal evidencing per se. Bochner (2000) says:\nSelf-narratives . . . are not so much academic as they are existential, reflecting a desire to grasp or seize the possibilities of meaning, which is what gives life its imaginative and poetic qualities . . . a poetic social science does not beg the question of how to separate good narrativization from bad . . . [but] the good ones help the reader or listener to understand and feel the phenomena under scrutiny. (p. 270)\nFinally, in addition to this anti-criteria stance of some researchers, some scholars have suggested that the criteria used to judge autoethnography should not necessarily be the same as traditional criteria used to judge other qualitative research investigations (Garratt & Hodkinson, 1999; Holt, 2003; Sparkes, 2000). They argue that autoethnography has been received with a significant degree of academic suspicion because it contravenes certain qualitative research traditions. The controversy surrounding autoethnography is in part related to the problematic exclusive use of the self to produce research (Denzin & Lincoln, 1994). This use of self as the only data source in autoethnography has been questioned (see, for example, Denzin & Lincoln, 1994; Sparkes, 2000). Accordingly, autoethnographies have been criticized for being too self-indulgent and narcissistic (Coffey, 1999). Sparkes (2000) suggested that autoethnography is at the boundaries of academic research because such accounts do not sit comfortably with traditional criteria used to judge qualitative inquiries(Holt, 2003, p. 19).\n\nHolt (2003) associates this problem with this problem as two crucial issues in \"the fourth moment of qualitative research\" Denzin & Lincoln (2000) presented; the dual crises of representation and legitimation. The crisis of representation refers to the writing practices (i.e., how researchers write and represent the social world). Additionally, verification issues relating to methods and representation are (re)considered as problematic (Marcus & Fischer, 1986). The crisis of legitimation questions traditional criteria used for evaluating and interpreting qualitative research, involving a rethinking of terms such as validity, reliability, and objectivity (Holt, 2003, p. 19). Holt (2003) says:\nMuch like the autoethnographic texts themselves, the boundaries of research and their maintenance are socially constructed (Sparkes, 2000). In justifying autoethnography as proper research, it should be noted that ethnographers have acted autobiographically before, but in the past they may not have been aware of doing so, and taken their genre for granted (Coffey, 1999). Autoethnographies may leave reviewers in a perilous position. [...] the reviewers were not sure if the account was proper research (because of the style of representation), and the verification criteria they wished to judge this research by appeared to be inappropriate. Whereas the use of autoethnographic methods may be increasing, knowledge of how to evaluate and provide feedback to improve such accounts appears to be lagging. As reviewers begin to develop ways in which to judge autoethnography, they must resist the temptation to \"seek universal foundational criteria lest one form of dogma simply replaces another\" (Sparkes, 2002b, p. 223). However, criteria for evaluating personal writing have barely begun to develop (DeVault, 1997). (p. 26)\n\n"}
{"id": "68868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68868", "title": "Big Dumb Object", "text": "Big Dumb Object\n\nIn discussion of science fiction, a Big Dumb Object (BDO) is any mysterious object (usually of extraterrestrial or unknown origin and immense power) in a story which generates an intense sense of wonder by its mere existence; to a certain extent, the term deliberately deflates this.\n\nThe term was not in general use until Peter Nicholls included it in \"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" as a joke in 1993, while its creation has been attributed to reviewer Roz Kaveney.\n\nBig Dumb Objects often exhibit extreme or unusual properties, or a total absence of some expected properties:\n\n\nSuch unexpected properties are usually used to rule out conventional origins for the BDO and increase the sense of mystery, and even fear, for the characters interacting with it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28811278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28811278", "title": "Cain (novel)", "text": "Cain (novel)\n\nCain is the final novel by Nobel Prize-winning author José Saramago; it was first published in 2009. The novel is told through the eyes of Cain as he witnesses passages from the Bible that add to his increasing hatred of God.\n"}
{"id": "938085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938085", "title": "Cuman language", "text": "Cuman language\n\nCuman (Kuman) was a Kipchak Turkic language spoken by the Cumans (Polovtsy, Folban, Vallany, Kun) and Kipchaks; the language was similar to today's various languages of the Kipchak-Cuman branch. Cuman is documented in medieval works, including the Codex Cumanicus, and it was a literary language in the Central and Eastern Europe that left a rich literary inheritance. The language became the main language (lingua franca) of the Golden Horde.\n\nThe Cumans were nomadic people who lived in the steppes of Eastern Europe, north of the Black Sea before the Golden Horde. Many Turkic peoples including the Crimean Tatars, Karachays, Kumyks, and Balkars are descended from the Cumans. Today, the speakers of these various languages belonging to the Kipchak-Cuman branch speak variations closely related to the Cuman language.\n\nThe Cuman language became extinct in the early 17th century in the region of Cumania in Hungary, which was its last stronghold. Tradition holds that the last speaker of the Cuman language there was a person named István Varró, a resident of Karcag (Hungary) who died in 1770.\n\nThe Cuman-Kipchaks had an important role in the history of Hungary, Romania (see, for example, the Besarab dynasty), Moldavia, Bessarabia and Bulgaria\n\nFrom the book known as the Codex Cumanicus, a Cuman Kipchak Turkic Pater Noster:\n\nIn Oghuz, or Western, Turkish, the same text is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9628483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9628483", "title": "Djellaba", "text": "Djellaba\n\nThe djellaba (; Moroccan Arabic: جلابة; Berber: \"Aselham\") is a long, loose-fitting unisex outer robe with full sleeves that is worn in the Maghreb region of North Africa; its origin is Morocco. The word literally means \"attractive\", from \"jalaba\", \"to bring\", \"fetch\"; its Semitic root is \"glb\".\n\nTraditionally, djellabas are made of wool in different shapes and colours, but lightweight cotton djellabas have now become popular. Among the Berbers, or Imazighen, such as the Imilchil in the Atlas Mountains, the colour of a djellaba traditionally indicates the marital status (single or married) of the bearer: a dark brown djellaba indicating bachelorhood.\n\nTraditionally, djellabas reached down to the ground but lightweight djellabas are somewhat slimmer and shorter. Men often wear a light-coloured djellaba sometimes along with a traditional Arab red fez hat and soft yellow babouche slippers (\"balgha\" in Arabic) for religious celebrations and weddings.\n\nAlmost all djellabas of both styles (male or female) include a baggy hood called a \"qob\" (Arabic: قب) that comes to a point at the back. The hood is important for both sexes, as it protects the wearer from the sun, and in earlier times, it was used as a defence against sand being blown into the wearer's face by strong desert winds. In colder climes, as in the mountains of Morocco and Algeria, it also serves the same function as a winter hat, preventing heat loss through the head and protecting the face from snow and rain. It is common for the roomy hood to be used as a pocket during times of warm weather; it can fit loaves of bread or bags of groceries.\n\nTraditional djellabas are generally made of two types of material, cotton for summer wear and coarse wool for the winter. The wool is typically obtained from sheep in the surrounding mountains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2354244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2354244", "title": "Droste effect", "text": "Droste effect\n\nThe Droste effect (), known in art as \"mise en abyme\", is the effect of a picture recursively appearing within itself, in a place where a similar picture would realistically be expected to appear.\nThe effect is named for a Dutch brand of cocoa, with an image designed by Jan Misset in 1904. It has since been used in the packaging of a variety of products. The effect was anticipated in medieval works of art such as Giotto's Stefaneschi Triptych of 1320.\n\nThe effect is named after the image on the tins and boxes of Droste cocoa powder, one of the main Dutch brands, which displayed a nurse carrying a serving tray with a cup of hot chocolate and a box with the same image, designed by Jan Misset. This image, introduced in 1904, and maintained for decades with slight variations from 1912 by artists including Adolphe Mouron, became a household notion. Reportedly, poet and columnist Nico Scheepmaker introduced wider usage of the term in the late 1970s.\n\nThe appearance is recursive: the smaller version contains an even smaller version of the picture, and so on. Only in theory could this go on forever, as fractals do; practically, it continues only as long as the resolution of the picture allows, which is relatively short, since each iteration geometrically reduces the picture's size.\n\nThe Droste effect was anticipated by Giotto in 1320, in his Stefaneschi Triptych. The polyptych altarpiece portrays in its center panel Cardinal Giacomo Gaetani Stefaneschi offering the triptych itself to St. Peter. There are also several examples from medieval times of books featuring images containing the book itself or window panels in churches depicting miniature copies of the window panel itself.\n\nThe Dutch artist M. C. Escher made use of the Droste effect in his 1956 lithograph Print Gallery, which depicts a gallery containing a print which depicts the gallery, each time both reduced and rotated, but with a void at the centre of the image. The work has attracted the attention of mathematicians including Bart de Smit and Hendrik Lenstra. They devised a method of filling in the artwork's central void in an additional application of the Droste effect by successively rotating and shrinking an image of the artwork.\n\nThe Droste effect was used in the packaging of Land O'Lakes butter, which features a Native American woman holding a package of butter with a picture of herself. Morton Salt similarly makes use of the effect. The cover of the 1969 vinyl album \"Ummagumma\" by Pink Floyd shows the band members sitting in various places, with a picture on the wall showing the same scene, but the order of the band members rotated. The logo of \"The Laughing Cow\" cheese spread brand pictures a cow with earrings. On closer inspection, these are seen to be images of the circular cheese spread package, each bearing the image of the laughing cow. The Droste effect is a theme in Russell Hoban's children's novel, \"The Mouse and His Child\", appearing in the form of a label on a can of \"Bonzo Dog Food\" which depicts itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12510620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12510620", "title": "Eduard Rhein Foundation", "text": "Eduard Rhein Foundation\n\nThe Eduard Rhein Foundation was founded in 1976 in Hamburg (Germany) by Eduard Rhein. The goal of the foundation is to promote scientific research, learning, arts, and culture. This is done in particular by granting awards for outstanding achievements in research an/or development in the areas of radio, television and information technology.\n\nThe foundation grants the following awards and honor:\n\n\n1979 to 2006 award winners are listed in the .\n\n2007:\n\n2008\n\n2009 \n\n2010 \n\n2011 \n\n2012 \n\n2013 \n\n2014 \n\n2015 \n\n"}
{"id": "2581625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2581625", "title": "Epiphanius Slavinetsky", "text": "Epiphanius Slavinetsky\n\nEpifany Slavinetsky () (died November 19, 1675) was an ecclesiastical expert of the Russian Orthodox Church who helped Patriarch Nikon to revise ancient service-books. His actions precipitated the \"raskol\", the great schism of the national church.\nEpifany was born in Moscow. In the 1620s, he attended the Kiev Brotherhood School and furthered his education abroad. He was one of the most educated people of his period in Central and Eastern Europe . He came to master Latin, Polish, Ancient Greek and Hebrew. On his return to Kiev, he took monastic vows in the Kiev Pechersk Lavra. In the late 1630s, he compiled the first Latin-Church Slavonic lexicon, which he would revise on several occasions.\n\nUpon hearing about Epifany's scholarly expertise, the Imperial Russian Tsar Alexis invited him to correct the ecclesiastical books of Muscovy. Epifany arrived in Moscow in 1649 and visited the Trinity-Sergius monastery the same year. He quickly managed to secure the patronage of the Boyar Boris Morozov and Metropolitan Nikon of Novgorod, who was elected Patriarch a short time later.\n\nEpifany joined the Chudov Monastery in the Moscow Kremlin where he was appointed head of the Patriarchal school and charged with administrating the Printery. He revived the mediaeval tradition of delivering sermons in Russian churches. In the 1650s and early 1660s, he revised the Muscovite service-books and translating Erasmus and Copernicus from Latin.\n\nWhen Nikon fell into disgrace, he gained the support of the scholar, who proved that his deposition was contrary to the laws of the church. He spent his last years translating the Septuagint and the New Testament as commissioned by his patron Fyodor Rtishchev. Epifany died in Moscow in 1675.\n"}
{"id": "34446150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34446150", "title": "Erra-Pater", "text": "Erra-Pater\n\nErra-Pater (or Erra Pater) is the assumed name of the author of an astrological almanac first published in 1535, and referred to by Samuel Butler in \"Hudibras\" (I.i), and by William Congreve in \"Love for Love\".\n"}
{"id": "50564046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50564046", "title": "Face of Nepal", "text": "Face of Nepal\n\nFace of Nepal is Asia’s largest model hunt platform where Nepalese models participate to be offered the chance to represent Nepal at the Asia New Star Model Contest.\n\nFace of Nepal was started in 2016 by Badal Saboo, with the prize for the 4 top winners going to Suwon City, Korea to compete in the Asia New Model Contest, a contest partnered with the Korea Model Association (KMA). The KMA has organized the Asia Model Festival, Asia's largest, for the past 10 years.\n\nThe Face of Nepal 2016 pageant took place on April 29, 2016 at Kathmandu. The winners were Ritesh Raj Gurung and Al Hang Rae, who won the prize. First runner up went to Parmita RL Rana and Sameer Kunwar Rana who withdrew due to personal reasons, resulting in Bhaskar Baniya being given the 1st runner up title. The Asia New Model Contest took place on the 19th of May 2016, with 25 countries taking place.\n\nColor key\n\nOfficial Website \n"}
{"id": "27523125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27523125", "title": "Feminist Library", "text": "Feminist Library\n\nThe Feminist Library was founded as the Women’s Research and Resources Centre in 1975 by a group of women concerned about the future of the Fawcett Library to ensure that the history of the women's liberation movement survived. The founders included feminist academics like Diana Leonard and Leonore Davidoff. \n\nThe library started out as a small collection of contemporary material, but is now considered to be the most significant library of feminist material in England, containing some 7500 books, of which around 5000 are non-fiction, 500 poetry publications, and 1500 periodical titles, many self-published, spanning over about 85 metres of shelving. There is also a large number of pamphlets, currently held at the Bishopsgate Institute.\n\nThe library faced a financial crisis in 2003 when Lambeth Council dramatically increased the rent on the building housing the collections.\n\nFour years later, in 2007, the management committee called an emergency meeting as a final attempt to gather support. Fortunately, the meeting was well attended and the library was saved, although it still struggles today, depending on grants to survive. \n\nIn January 2010, the library announced that it had received a grant from Awards for All, which it intended to use to train volunteers in radical librarianship, using the library itself as a resource. In March 2010, fifteen volunteers were chosen from many applicants and they began working at the library in April 2010. One of the trainees began writing an anonymous blog about her experiences.\n\nOpening hours had increased in 2013 - 2014 but remained dependent on the availability of volunteers. In 2015 the Library celebrated its 40th anniversary, while by 2018 it was open afternoons or evenings from Tuesday to Saturday.\n\nThe amount of poetry and fiction in the library is unusual for a special collection focused on a political movement. The reason for this is that the library wanted to ensure individual women were represented as part of their liberation, as explained by Gail Chester, a member of the library's management committee, in an interview with Anne Welsh in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1810126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810126", "title": "Girdle-measurers", "text": "Girdle-measurers\n\nGirdle-measurers were practitioners of a specific type of curative English folk magic. They claimed to be able to tell whether fairies had placed a person under a spell, or otherwise caused trouble for them. They did this by measuring the changing length of the afflicted person's belt or girdle.\n"}
{"id": "1051508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1051508", "title": "Iolo Morganwg", "text": "Iolo Morganwg\n\nEdward Williams, better known by his bardic name Iolo Morganwg (; 10 March 1747 – 18 December 1826), was an influential Welsh antiquarian, poet, collector, and literary forger. In his day he was widely considered a leading collector and expert on Medieval Welsh literature, but after his death it was revealed that he had forged a number of his manuscripts, especially parts of the Third Series of Welsh Triads. Nonetheless, he had a lasting impact on Welsh culture, seen most notably in his foundation of the Gorsedd, and the philosophy he developed in his forgeries had a huge impact on the early neo-druid movement. His bardic name is Welsh for \"Iolo of Glamorgan\" (the county's name is spelt \"Morgannwg\" in modern Welsh). \"Iolo\" is the diminutive of \"Iorwerth\", a Welsh name often seen as equivalent to \"Edward\", although neither name is a translation of the other.\n\nEdward Williams was born at , near Llancarfan in Glamorgan, Wales, and was raised in the village of Flemingston (or Flimston; \"Trefflemin\" in Welsh). He followed his father into a career as a stonemason. In Glamorgan he took an interest in manuscript collection, and learned to compose Welsh poetry from poets such as Lewis Hopkin, Rhys Morgan, and especially Siôn Bradford. In 1773 he moved to London where the antiquary Owen Jones introduced him to the city's Welsh literary community, and where he became a member of the Gwyneddigion Society: he would later also be active in the Cymreigyddion Society. In 1777 he returned to Wales, where he married and tried his hand at farming, but evidently met with no success. It was during this time that he produced his first forgeries.\n\nWilliams's son, Taliesin (bardic name, Taliesin ab Iolo), whom he had named after the early medieval bard Taliesin, later went on to collect his manuscripts in twenty-six volumes, a selection was published under the title of the Iolo Manuscripts by the Welsh Manuscripts Society in 1848.\n\nFrom an early date Williams was concerned with preserving and maintaining the literary and cultural traditions of Wales. To this end he produced a large number of manuscripts as evidence for his claims that ancient druidic tradition had survived the Roman conquest, the conversion of the populace to Christianity, the persecution of the bards under King Edward I, and other adversities. His forgeries develop an elaborate mystical philosophy, which he claimed represented a direct continuation of ancient druidic practice. Williams's reported heavy use of laudanum may have been a contributing factor.\n\nWilliams first came to public notice in 1789 when he produced \"Barddoniaeth Dafydd ab Gwilym\", a collection of the poetry of the 14th-century Dafydd ap Gwilym. Included in this edition was a large number of previously unknown poems by Dafydd that he claimed to have discovered; these poems are regarded as Williams's first forgeries. His success led him to return to London in 1791. There he founded the Gorsedd, a community of Welsh bards, at a ceremony on 21 June 1792 at Primrose Hill. He organised the proceedings, which he claimed were based on ancient druidic rites. In 1794 he published some of his own poetry, which was later collected in the two-volume \"Poems, Lyric and Pastoral\". Essentially his only genuine work, it proved quite popular.\n\nWilliams worked with Owen Jones and William Owen Pughe on \"The Myvyrian Archaiology of Wales\", a three-volume collection of medieval Welsh literature published between 1801 and 1807. The \"Myvyrian Archaiology \" relied partially on manuscripts in Williams's collection, some of which included his forgeries. Forged material included a false \"Brut\" chronicle and a book attributed to Saint Cadoc. The second volume, which collected the Welsh Triads, contained an additional \"third series\" of forged triads, as well as Williams's alterations to the authentic ones.\nAfter Williams's death some of his collection was compiled into \"The Iolo Manuscripts\" by his son, Taliesin Williams. His papers were used by many later scholars and translators, and were used for reference by Lady Charlotte Guest as she was translating the prose collection \"Mabinogion\". Guest did not, however, rely on William's editions of the tales themselves except for \"Hanes Taliesin\". Later still, more of Williams's forgeries were published in the text known as \"Barddas\". This work, published in two volumes in 1862 and 1874, was claimed to have been a translation of works by Llywelyn Siôn detailing the history of the Welsh bardic system from its ancient origins to the present day. Though it contains nothing of authentic druidic lore, it is the fullest account of the mystical cosmology Williams developed. Other works by Williams include the \"Druid's Prayer\", still used by the Gorsedd and by neo-druid groups; a treatise on Welsh metrics called \"Cyfrinach Beirdd Ynys Prydain\" (\"The Mystery of the Bards of the Isle of Britain\"), published posthumously in 1828; and a series of hymns published as \"Salmau yr Eglwys yn yr Anialwch\" (\"Psalms of the church in the wilderness\") in 1812.\n\nIolo's philosophy represented a fusion of Christian and Arthurian influences, a romanticism comparable to that of William Blake and the Scottish poet and forger James MacPherson, the revived antiquarian enthusiasm for all things \"Celtic\", and such elements of bardic heritage as had genuinely survived among Welsh-language poets. Part of his aim was to assert the Welshness of South Wales, particularly his home region of Glamorgan, against the prevalent idea that North Wales represented the purest survival of Welsh traditions. The metaphysics elucidated in his forgeries and other works proposed a theory of concentric \"rings of existence\", proceeding outward from Annwn (the Otherworld) through Abred and Ceugant to Gwynfyd (purity or Heaven).\n\nOutside his shop in Cowbridge was a sign explaining that the sugar he sold was from plantations which did not employ slaves. He also refused inheritance from his brothers, who owned plantations in Jamaica which used slave labour.\n\nBy 1799 he had become a Unitarian and he was the leading spirit when a Unitarian Association was formed in South Wales in 1802; it was he who drew up the \"Rheolau a Threfniadau\" (Rules and Procedures) of that body published in 1803.\n\nIolo Morganwg developed his own runic system, in Welsh Coelbren y Beirdd (\"the Bardic Alphabet\"). It was said to be the alphabetic system of the ancient druids. It consisted of 20 main letters, and 20 others \"to represent elongated vowels and mutations.\" These symbols were to be represented in a wooden frame, known as \"peithynen\".\n\nSuch was the extent of his forgery that, even into the 21st century, some of his tampered versions of medieval Welsh texts are better known than the original versions.\n\nA Welsh-language school in Cowbridge, Ysgol Iolo Morganwg, is named after him, and Super Furry Animals vocalist Gruff Rhys dedicated a song to him on his 2014 album, \"American Interior\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27574319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27574319", "title": "Jormungand (manga)", "text": "Jormungand (manga)\n\nThe series follows Koko Hekmatyar, a young arms dealer who sells weapons under HCLI, an international shipping corporation and illegal smuggling operation. As one of the company's unofficial weapon dealers, she sells weapons in a variety of countries while avoiding both local and international authorities. Traveling with her is a team of bodyguards, mostly composed of former soldiers. The newest addition to her crew is Jonah, an inexpressive and deadly child soldier who hates arms dealers.\n\nThe manga is published in North America by Viz Media. In Japan, Jormungand is officially published by Shogakukan. In Taiwan, it is licensed and published by Taiwan Tohan.\n\nAn anime animated by White Fox and produced by Geneon was announced on the 10th volume of the manga. The anime began airing on April 10, 2012 on Tokyo MX, Television Kanagawa, TV Aichi and KBS and on later dates on Sun TV, BS11 and AT-X. The show will also be seen online in Showtime, NicoNico, Bandai Channel and GyaO. A second season of the series, Jormungand: Perfect Order, was also announced and slated to be released in October 2012, which began broadcasting on Japanese TV on October 9, 2012. The two seasons aired on Japanese TV at 12:30 AM.\n\nThe first release of Jormungand on DVD and Blu-ray was on June 27, 2012 with the first two episodes, \"Gun Metal, Calico Road\" and \"Pulsar\" included. Subsequent releases followed with two episodes each on both Blu-rays and DVDs on July 25, August 29 and September 26 of 2012. The Perfect Order DVD/Blu-rays was first released in Japan on December 21, 2012.\n\nShowgate handles licensing aspect of Jormungand outside Japan. A sneak preview of the anime was held on March 31 to April 1, 2012 at the Anime Contents Expo at the Makuhari Messe in Chiba.\n\nThe Jormungand Original Soundtrack was released on June 27, 2012 following the conclusion of the first season. It was composed by Taku Iwasaki and released by the record label Geneon Universal Entertainment.\n\nFor the first season, both the opening and ending themes were produced by I've Sound. The opening song is \"Borderland\" by Mami Kawada, and the ending theme is \"Ambivalentidea\" by Nagi Yanagi. \"Borderland\" was released as a single on May 30, 2012, while \"Ambivalentidea\" was released as a single on June 6, 2012. Both songs were released as singles by Geneon Universal Entertainment.\n\nFor the second season, the opening is \"Under / Shaft\" by Maon Kurosaki, while the ending is by Nagi Yanagi.\n\nAdditionally, the song \"Time To Attack\" by American rapper/hip-hop artist SANTA is featured in episodes throughout both seasons of the show, as well as during the next-episode previews at the end of each episode.\n\nA 6-part Drama CD had been released prior to the anime, based on the Orchestra story arc. Of all the voice actors involved in the CD, only Unsho Ishizuka reprised his role as Lehm while the voice actors for everyone else involved in the drama were replaced.\n\nA radio show dedicated to Jormungand has been made public with Shizuka Ito and Mutsumi Tamura as the hosts.\n\nScott Green, writing for Ain't It Cool News, summed up the series as being enjoyable, but underachieving. Matthew Warner feels that the story in the fourth volume is more focused on the business of trading weapons, describing it as a nice change of pace for the story, but Warner was disappointed that the violence and \"dark, twisted plot points\" of earlier volumes in the series were not present. Erica Friedman, organiser of Yuricon, noted the yuri potential of Valmet, but declared the manga to be \"just a dumb manga that I really like\". Karen Maeda enjoyed the action shown in the sixth volume, regarding the panels as being easy to follow, and hoped that \"Jormungand\" would be produced as an anime.\n\nAnime News Network's review of \"Jormungand\" points out the \"challenging ideas about war, peace, and world affairs—and throws in some whiz-bang military action for good measure.\"\n\nIn Japan, the manga's 9th Volume sold 41,712 copies in a week for a total of 42,337 in the 27th place out of 30. Jormungand's 11th Volume was in 10th place and had sold 70,593 copies. It later placed itself in the 20th place out of 30, selling 34,697 copies weekly for a total of 105,290.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6495074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6495074", "title": "Kianda", "text": "Kianda\n\nIn Angolan mythology, Kianda is a goddess of the sea, deity of the waters, protector of the fishermen. She was traditionally worshipped by throwing offerings such as food and clothing into the sea. \nEquivalent to Iemanja, Brazilian water goddess of African origin Yoruba. Her English translation would be Mermaid.\nEvery year there are held festivities Kianda Festivity to worship this deity in Luanda, Angola, a week before the festival of the patron saint of the Ilha and Ibendoa (Bengo province) in July.\nThe name kianda is also the specific epithet for mosasaur Prognathodon kianda from Angola.\n\n"}
{"id": "15963214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15963214", "title": "Latobici", "text": "Latobici\n\nLatobici (\"Latovici\", \"Λατόβικοι\") were a Celtic tribe settling in modern-day Slovenia mentioned by Ptolemy. In Roman times, their cities were \"Praetorium Latobicorum\" (modern Trebnje) and \"Municipium Latobicorum\", or later \"Neviodunum\" (modern Drnovo). Their name seems to be connected to the theonym \"Latobius\" ('He who is most ardent'), of which 6 inscriptions have been found at two locations in Austria.\n"}
{"id": "221742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221742", "title": "Legal history", "text": "Legal history\n\nLegal history or the history of law is the study of how law has evolved and why it changed. Legal history is closely connected to the development of civilisations and is set in the wider context of social history. Among certain jurists and historians of legal process, it has been seen as the recording of the evolution of laws and the technical explanation of how these laws have evolved with the view of better understanding the origins of various legal concepts; some consider it a branch of intellectual history. Twentieth century historians have viewed legal history in a more contextualised manner more in line with the thinking of social historians. They have looked at legal institutions as complex systems of rules, players and symbols and have seen these elements interact with society to change, adapt, resist or promote certain aspects of civil society. Such legal historians have tended to analyse case histories from the parameters of social science inquiry, using statistical methods, analysing class distinctions among litigants, petitioners and other players in various legal processes. By analysing case outcomes, transaction costs, number of settled cases they have begun an analysis of legal institutions, practices, procedures and briefs that give us a more complex picture of law and society than the study of jurisprudence, case law and civil codes can achieve.\n\nAncient Egyptian law, dating as far back as 3000 BC, had a civil code that was probably broken into twelve books. It was based on the concept of Ma'at, characterised by tradition, rhetorical speech, social equality and impartiality. By the 22nd century BC, Ur-Nammu, an ancient Sumerian ruler, formulated the first extant law code, consisting of casuistic statements (\"if... then...\"). Around 1760 BC, King Hammurabi further developed Babylonian law, by codifying and inscribing it in stone. Hammurabi placed several copies of his law code throughout the kingdom of Babylon as stelae, for the entire public to see; this became known as the Codex Hammurabi. The most intact copy of these stelae was discovered in the 19th century by British Assyriologists, and has since been fully transliterated and translated into various languages, including English, German and French. Ancient Greek has no word for \"law\" as an abstract concept, retaining instead the distinction between divine law (\"thémis\"), human decree (\"nomos\") and custom (\"díkē\"). Yet Ancient Greek law contained major constitutional innovations in the development of democracy.\n\nAncient India and China represent distinct traditions of law, and had historically independent schools of legal theory and practice. The \"Arthashastra\", dating from the 400 BC, and the \"Manusmriti\" from 100 BCE were influential treatises in India, texts that were considered authoritative legal guidance. Manu's central philosophy was tolerance and pluralism, and was cited across South East Asia. But this Hindu tradition, along with Islamic law, was supplanted by the common law when India became part of the British Empire. Malaysia, Brunei, Singapore and Hong Kong also adopted the common law.\n\nThe eastern Asia legal tradition reflects a unique blend of secular and religious influences. Japan was the first country to begin modernising its legal system along western lines, by importing bits of the French, but mostly the German Civil Code. This partly reflected Germany's status as a rising power in the late nineteenth century. Similarly, traditional Chinese law gave way to westernisation towards the final years of the Qing dynasty in the form of six private law codes based mainly on the Japanese model of German law. Today Taiwanese law retains the closest affinity to the codifications from that period, because of the split between Chiang Kai-shek's nationalists, who fled there, and Mao Zedong's communists who won control of the mainland in 1949. The current legal infrastructure in the People's Republic of China was heavily influenced by soviet Socialist law, which essentially inflates administrative law at the expense of private law rights. Today, however, because of rapid industrialisation China has been reforming, at least in terms of economic (if not social and political) rights. A new contract code in 1999 represented a turn away from administrative domination. Furthermore, after negotiations lasting fifteen years, in 2001 China joined the World Trade Organization.\n\n\nThe legal history of the Catholic Church is the history of Catholic canon law, the oldest continuously functioning legal system in the West. Canon law originates much later than Roman law but predates the evolution of modern European civil law traditions. The cultural exchange between the secular (Roman/Barbarian) and ecclesiastical (canon) law produced the jus commune and greatly influenced both civil and common law.\n\nThe history of Latin canon law can be divided into four periods: the \"jus antiquum\", the \"jus novum\", the \"jus novissimum\" and the \"Code of Canon Law\". In relation to the Code, history can be divided into the \"jus vetus\" (all law before the Code) and the \"jus novum\" (the law of the Code, or \"jus codicis\"). Eastern canon law developed separately.\n\nIn the twentieth century, canon law was comprehensively codified. On 27 May 1917, Pope Benedict XV codified the 1917 Code of Canon Law. John XIII, together with his intention to call the Second Vatican Council, announced his intention to reform canon law, which culminated in the 1983 Code of Canon Law, promulgated by John Paul II on 25 January 1983. John Paul II also brought to a close the long process of codifying the legal elements common to all 23 sui juris Eastern Catholic Churches on 18 October 1990 by promulgating the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches.\n\nOne of the major legal systems developed during the Middle Ages was Islamic law and jurisprudence. A number of important legal institutions were developed by Islamic jurists during the classical period of Islamic law and jurisprudence. One such institution was the \"Hawala\", an early informal value transfer system, which is mentioned in texts of Islamic jurisprudence as early as the 8th century. \"Hawala\" itself later influenced the development of the \"Aval\" in French civil law and the \"Avallo\" in Italian law.\n\nRoman law was heavily influenced by Greek teachings. It forms the bridge to the modern legal world, over the centuries between the rise and decline of the Roman Empire. Roman law, in the days of the Roman republic and Empire, was heavily procedural and there was no professional legal class. Instead a lay person, \"iudex\", was chosen to adjudicate. Precedents were not reported, so any case law that developed was disguised and almost unrecognised. Each case was to be decided afresh from the laws of the state, which mirrors the (theoretical) unimportance of judges' decisions for future cases in civil law systems today. During the 6th century AD in the Eastern Roman Empire, the Emperor Justinian codified and consolidated the laws that had existed in Rome so that what remained was one twentieth of the mass of legal texts from before. This became known as the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\". As one legal historian wrote, \"Justinian consciously looked back to the golden age of Roman law and aimed to restore it to the peak it had reached three centuries before.\"\n\nDuring the Byzantine Empire the Justinian Code was expanded and remained in force until the Empire fell, though it was never officially introduced to the West. Instead, following the fall of the Western Empire and in former Roman countries, the ruling classes relied on the Theodosian Code to govern natives and Germanic customary law for the Germanic incomers - a system known as folk-right - until the two laws blended together. Since the Roman court system had broken down, legal disputes were adjudicated according to Germanic custom by assemblies of learned lawspeakers in rigid ceremonies and in oral proceedings that relied heavily on testimony.\n\nAfter much of the West was consolidated under Charlemagne, law became centralized so as to strengthen the royal court system, and consequently case law, and abolished folk-right. However, once Charlemagne's kingdom definitively splintered, Europe became feudalistic, and law was generally not governed above the county, municipal or lordship level, thereby creating a highly decentralized legal culture that favored the development of customary law founded on localized case law. However, in the 11th century, crusaders, having pillaged the Byzantine Empire, returned with Byzantine legal texts including the Justinian Code, and scholars at the University of Bologna were the first to use them to interpret their own customary laws. Medieval European legal scholars began researching the Roman law and using its concepts and prepared the way for the partial resurrection of Roman law as the modern civil law in a large part of the world. There was, however, a great deal of resistance so that civil law rivaled customary law for much of the late Middle Ages.\n\nAfter the Norman conquest of England, which introduced Norman legal concepts into medieval England, the English King's powerful judges developed a body of precedent that became the common law. In particular, Henry II instituted legal reforms and developed a system of royal courts administered by a small number of judges who lived in Westminster and traveled throughout the kingdom. Henry II also instituted the Assize of Clarendon in 1166, which allowed for jury trials and reduced the number of trials by combat. Louis IX of France also undertook major legal reforms and, inspired by ecclesiastical court procedure, extended Canon-law evidence and inquisitorial-trial systems to the royal courts. Also, judges no longer moved on circuits becoming fixed to their jurisdictions, and jurors were nominated by parties to the legal dispute rather than by the sheriff. In addition, by the 10th century, the Law Merchant, first founded on Scandinavian trade customs, then solidified by the Hanseatic League, took shape so that merchants could trade using familiar standards, rather than the many splintered types of local law. A precursor to modern commercial law, the Law Merchant emphasised the freedom of contract and alienability of property.\n\nThe two main traditions of modern European law are the codified legal systems of most of continental Europe, and the English tradition based on case law.\n\nAs nationalism grew in the 18th and 19th centuries, \"lex mercatoria\" was incorporated into countries' local law under new civil codes. Of these, the French Napoleonic Code and the German Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch became the most influential. As opposed to English common law, which consists of massive tomes of case law, codes in small books are easy to export and for judges to apply. However, today there are signs that civil and common law are converging. European Union law is codified in treaties, but develops through the precedent set down by the European Court of Justice.\n\nThe United States legal system developed primarily out of the English common law system (with the exception of the state of Louisiana, which continued to follow the French civilian system after being admitted to statehood). Some concepts from Spanish law, such as the prior appropriation doctrine and community property, still persist in some US states, particularly those that were part of the Mexican Cession in 1848.\n\nUnder the doctrine of federalism, each state has its own separate court system, and the ability to legislate within areas not reserved to the federal government.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49086", "title": "Libanius", "text": "Libanius\n\nLibanius (, \"Libanios\"; c. 314 – 392 or 393) was a Greek teacher of rhetoric of the Sophist school. During the rise of Christian hegemony in the later Roman Empire, he remained unconverted and in religious matters was a pagan Hellene.\n\nLibanius was born into a once-influential, deeply cultured family of Antioch that had recently come into diminished circumstances. At fourteen years old he began his study of rhetoric, for which he withdrew from public life and devoted himself to philosophy. Unfamiliar with Latin literature, he deplored its influence.\n\nLibanius used his arts of rhetoric to advance various private and political causes. He attacked the increasing imperial pressures on the traditional city-oriented culture that had been supported and dominated by the local upper classes.\nHe studied in Athens and began his career in Constantinople as a private tutor. He was temporarily exiled to Nicomedia but returned to Constantinople and taught there until 354. Before his exile, Libanius was a friend of the emperor Julian, with whom some correspondence survives, and in whose memory he wrote a series of orations; they were composed between 362 and 365. In 354 he accepted the chair of rhetoric in Antioch, his birthplace, where he stayed until his death. His pupils included both pagans and Christians.\n\nThe surviving works of Libanius, which include over 1,600 letters and 64 speeches, are valuable as a historical source for the changing world of the later 4th century. His oration \"A Reply To Aristides On Behalf Of The Dancers\" is one of the most important records of Roman concert dance, particularly that immensely popular form known as pantomime. His first \"Oration I\" is an autobiographical narrative, first written in 374 and revised throughout his life, a scholar's account that ends as an old exile's private journal.\n\nAlthough Libanius was not a Christian his students included such notable Christians as John Chrysostom and Theodore of Mopsuestia. Despite his friendship with the restorationist Emperor Julian he was made an honorary \"praetorian prefect\" by the Christian Emperor Theodosius I.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14839949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14839949", "title": "Lighthouse Furniture", "text": "Lighthouse Furniture\n\nLighthouse Furniture Ltd is located in Hutton, Essex.\nIt is a Not for Profit Organisation which aims \"to provide good quality furniture and household items to all those who wish to use the scheme.\"\n\nLighthouse aims to sell, at low prices, reusable and repaired furniture to those in the local community of Brentwood and the near surrounding areas in Essex who are marginalized as a result of hardship, poverty, social exclusion, disability or mental distress. This includes all that are on benefits and struggling after situations such as house fires, divorces or loss of work.\n\n"}
{"id": "12154712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12154712", "title": "List of Christmas markets", "text": "List of Christmas markets\n\nThis is a list of Christmas markets from around the world.\n\nChristmas markets are listed using their unique name. The list is ordered by continent and then by country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39486245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39486245", "title": "List of The Aquabats! Super Show! characters", "text": "List of The Aquabats! Super Show! characters\n\nThe following is a list of characters in The Aquabats! Super Show!, an American action-comedy television series which aired on the United States cable channel The Hub for two seasons from March 3, 2012 to January 18, 2014.\n\nA mix of live-action and animation, \"The Aquabats! Super Show!\" follows the adventures of The Aquabats, a band of superhero rock musicians as they defend the world against a variety of villains and monsters. The series is predominantly based upon The Aquabats' own background as a real-life band, and as such has adapted numerous characters from the band's stage shows and elaborate fictional mythology.\n\nThe Aquabats are a band of superhero rock musicians who travel the countryside fighting the forces of evil while moonlighting as a struggling rock and roll band. Despite their variety of superpowers, abilities and technology, the group are generally bumbling and inexperienced, and more often than not save the day by sheer luck or crudely unorthodox methods. In the series' first season, The Aquabats are depicted as an obscure and mostly out-of-work local superhero team, overshadowed by other, more competent superheroes and usually only stumbling into trouble they're directly or indirectly the cause of. After saving the world in the season finale, however, the band are recognized and treated as international heroes and celebrities in the second season, receiving top-priority government assignments and even sponsoring their own summer camp.\n\nThe Aquabats live and travel by way of the BattleTram, a modified recreational vehicle which serves as a combination tour bus and mobile command center. Unlike most other superheroes, The Aquabats have no alter egos to speak of, and are never seen without their trademark masks and helmets. The band's origin story was kept intentionally vague by the series' writers; while the first season made no references or allusions to the group's history, several episodes of the second season feature each member of The Aquabats recounting how they came together via animated flashback sequences. However, as each of these flashbacks directly contradict one another, it remains unknown if any could be considered officially canonical.\n\nThe five members of The Aquabats are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43726790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43726790", "title": "List of canonically crowned images", "text": "List of canonically crowned images\n\nThe following list enumerates the various Marian, Josephian, and Christological images venerated in the Roman Catholic Church, by which a Pope has officially issued a Papal bull of canonical coronation either by the Pontiff, a Papal legate or a Papal nuncio.\n\nThe very first Marian image crowned without a direct papal approval was by Cardinal Francesco Sforza Pallavicino with \"La Madonna della Oropa\" on 30 August 1620. The first Marian image Pontifically crowned was the painted image of \"La Madonna della Febbre\" (Madonna of Fever) on 27 May 1631 by Pope Urban VIII through the Vatican Chapter located at the Sacristy of Saint Peter's Basilica.\n\nThe solemn prescription of ritual to crowning images is embedded in \"Ordo Coronandi Imaginem Beatae Mariae Virginis\" published by the Holy Office on 25 May 1981. Prior to 1989, papal bulls concerning the authorization of canonical coronations were handwritten on parchment. After 1989, the Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments began issuing the specific recognition to crown a religious image, spelling out its approved devotional title and authorizing Papal legate. Several venerated images of the Child Jesus and Saint Joseph have also been granted a Pontifical coronation.\n\nThe list below enumerates approved Christological images with a written and expressed Pontifical recognition and were granted a canonical coronation.\n\nThe list below enumerates approved Josephian images with a written and expressed Pontifical recognition and were granted a canonical coronation.\n"}
{"id": "3035197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3035197", "title": "List of grand couturiers", "text": "List of grand couturiers\n\nA grand couturier is a member of the French \"Chambre syndicale de la haute couture\", part of the \" Fédération française de la couture, du prêt-à-porter des couturiers et des créateurs de mode\".\nThe official criteria, designed in 1945, originally implied presenting a certain number of original models each season, created by a permanent designer, handmade and bespoke models, a minimum number of people employed in the workshop and a minimum number of patterns \"presented usually in Paris\". In 2001, these criteria have been relaxed. The number of models to be shown on a seasonal basis has been reduced from 50 to 25. Also, the official appellation can be granted by the \"Chambre syndicale de la haute couture\" even if one criterion is not met.\n\nBeside official members, the \"Chambre syndicale\" officially \"invites\" each season some \"guests.\" They cannot use the term \"haute couture\" but only the term \"couture\" and can become grands couturiers after 2 years.\n\nThe \"Chambre syndicale\" also recognizes foreign grands couturiers who do not show in Paris, referring to them as \"membres correspondants\".\n\nMembers at the end of 2016:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51123", "title": "Literary criticism", "text": "Literary criticism\n\nLiterary criticism (or literary studies) is the study, evaluation, and interpretation of literature. Modern literary criticism is often influenced by literary theory, which is the philosophical discussion of literature's goals and methods. Though the two activities are closely related, literary critics are not always, and have not always been, theorists.\n\nWhether or not literary criticism should be considered a separate field of inquiry from literary theory, or conversely from book reviewing, is a matter of some controversy. For example, the \"Johns Hopkins Guide to Literary Theory and Criticism\" draws no distinction between literary theory and literary criticism, and almost always uses the terms together to describe the same concept. Some critics consider literary criticism a practical application of literary theory, because criticism always deals directly with particular literary works, while theory may be more general or abstract.\n\nLiterary criticism is often published in essay or book form. Academic literary critics teach in literature departments and publish in academic journals, and more popular critics publish their reviews in broadly circulating periodicals such as the \"Times Literary Supplement\", the \"New York Times Book Review\", the \"New York Review of Books\", the \"London Review of Books\", the \"Dublin Review of Books\", \"The Nation\", and \"The New Yorker\".\n\nLiterary criticism is thought to have existed as long as literature. In the 4th century BC Aristotle wrote the \"Poetics\", a typology and description of literary forms with many specific criticisms of contemporary works of art. \"Poetics\" developed for the first time the concepts of mimesis and catharsis, which are still crucial in literary studies. Plato's attacks on poetry as imitative, secondary, and false were formative as well. The Sanskrit \"Natya Shastra\" includes literary criticism on ancient Indian literature and Sanskrit drama.\n\nLater classical and medieval criticism often focused on religious texts, and the several long religious traditions of hermeneutics and textual exegesis have had a profound influence on the study of secular texts. This was particularly the case for the literary traditions of the three Abrahamic religions: Jewish literature, Christian literature and Islamic literature. \n\nLiterary criticism was also employed in other forms of medieval Arabic literature and Arabic poetry from the 9th century, notably by Al-Jahiz in his \"al-Bayan wa-'l-tabyin\" and \"al-Hayawan\", and by Abdullah ibn al-Mu'tazz in his \"Kitab al-Badi\".\n\nThe literary criticism of the Renaissance developed classical ideas of unity of form and content into literary neoclassicism, proclaiming literature as central to culture, entrusting the poet and the author with preservation of a long literary tradition. The birth of Renaissance criticism was in 1498, with the recovery of classic texts, most notably, Giorgio Valla's Latin translation of Aristotle's \"Poetics\". The work of Aristotle, especially \"Poetics\", was the most important influence upon literary criticism until the late eighteenth century. Lodovico Castelvetro was one of the most influential Renaissance critics who wrote commentaries on Aristotle's \"Poetics\" in 1570.\n\nIn the Enlightenment period (1700s to 1800s), literary criticism became more popular. During this time period literacy rates started to rise in the public, no longer was reading exclusive for the wealthy or scholarly. With the rise of the literate public and swiftness of printing, criticism arose too. Reading was no longer viewed solely as educational or as a sacred source of religion; it was a form of entertainment. Literary criticism was influenced by the values and stylistic writing, including clear, bold, precise writing and the more controversial criteria of the author's religious beliefs. These critical reviews were published in many magazines, newspapers, and journals. Many works of Jonathan Swift were criticized including his book \"Gulliver's Travels\", which one critic described as \"the detestable story of the Yahoos\".\n\nThe British Romantic movement of the early nineteenth century introduced new aesthetic ideas to literary studies, including the idea that the object of literature need not always be beautiful, noble, or perfect, but that literature itself could elevate a common subject to the level of the sublime. German Romanticism, which followed closely after the late development of German classicism, emphasized an aesthetic of fragmentation that can appear startlingly modern to the reader of English literature, and valued \"Witz\" – that is, \"wit\" or \"humor\" of a certain sort – more highly than the serious Anglophone Romanticism. The late nineteenth century brought renown to authors known more for their literary criticism than for their own literary work, such as Matthew Arnold.\n\nHowever important all of these aesthetic movements were as antecedents, current ideas about literary criticism derive almost entirely from the new direction taken in the early twentieth century. Early in the century the school of criticism known as Russian Formalism, and slightly later the New Criticism in Britain and in the United States, came to dominate the study and discussion of literature, in the English-speaking world. Both schools emphasized the close reading of texts, elevating it far above generalizing discussion and speculation about either authorial intention (to say nothing of the author's psychology or biography, which became almost taboo subjects) or reader response. This emphasis on form and precise attention to \"the words themselves\" has persisted, after the decline of these critical doctrines themselves.\n\nIn 1957 Northrop Frye published the influential \"Anatomy of Criticism\". In his works Frye noted that some critics tend to embrace an ideology, and to judge literary pieces on the basis of their adherence to such ideology. This has been a highly influential viewpoint among modern conservative thinkers. E. Michael Jones, for example, argues in his \"Degenerate Moderns\" that Stanley Fish was influenced by his adulterous affairs to reject classic literature that condemned adultery. Jürgen Habermas in \"Erkenntnis und Interesse\" [1968] (\"Knowledge and Human Interests\"), described literary critical theory in literary studies as a form of hermeneutics: knowledge via interpretation to understand the meaning of human texts and symbolic expressions—including the interpretation of texts which themselves interpret other texts.\n\nIn the British and American literary establishment, the New Criticism was more or less dominant until the late 1960s. Around that time Anglo-American university literature departments began to witness a rise of a more explicitly philosophical literary theory, influenced by structuralism, then post-structuralism, and other kinds of Continental philosophy. It continued until the mid-1980s, when interest in \"theory\" peaked. Many later critics, though undoubtedly still influenced by theoretical work, have been comfortable simply interpreting literature rather than writing explicitly about methodology and philosophical presumptions.\n\nRelated to other forms of literary criticism, the history of the book is a field of interdisciplinary inquiry drawing on the methods of bibliography, cultural history, history of literature, and media theory. Principally concerned with the production, circulation, and reception of texts and their material forms, book history seeks to connect forms of textuality with their material aspects.\n\nAmong the issues within the history of literature with which book history can be seen to intersect are: the development of authorship as a profession, the formation of reading audiences, the constraints of censorship and copyright, and the economics of literary form.\n\nToday, interest in literary theory and continental philosophy coexists in university literature departments with a more conservative literary criticism of which the New Critics would probably have approved. Disagreements over the goals and methods of literary criticism, which characterized both sides taken by critics during the \"rise\" of theory, have declined. Many critics feel that they now have a great plurality of methods and approaches from which to choose.\n\nSome critics work largely with theoretical texts, while others read traditional literature; interest in the literary canon is still great, but many critics are also interested in minority and women's literatures, while some critics influenced by cultural studies read popular texts like comic books or pulp/genre fiction. Ecocritics have drawn connections between literature and the natural sciences. Darwinian literary studies studies literature in the context of evolutionary influences on human nature. Many literary critics also work in film criticism or media studies. Some write intellectual history; others bring the results and methods of social history to bear on reading literature.\n\nThe value of extensive literary analysis has been questioned by several prominent artists. Vladimir Nabokov once wrote that good readers do not read books, and particularly those which are considered to be literary masterpieces, \"for the academic purpose of indulging in generalizations\". At a 1986 Copenhagen conference of James Joyce scholars, Stephen J. Joyce (the modernist writer's grandson) said, \"If my grandfather was here, he would have died laughing ... \"Dubliners\" and \"A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man\" can be picked up, read, and enjoyed by virtually anybody without scholarly guides, theories, and intricate explanations, as can \"Ulysses\", if you forget about all the hue and cry.\" He later questioned whether anything has been added to the legacy of Joyce's art by the 261 books of literary criticism stored in the Library of Congress.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1544319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1544319", "title": "Nanosocialism", "text": "Nanosocialism\n\nNanosocialism refers generally to a set of economic theories of social organization advocating state or collective ownership and administration of the research, development and use of nanotechnology.\n\nNanosocialism is a stance that favors participatory politics to guide state intervention in the effort to manage the transition to a society revolutionized by molecular nanotechnology.\n\n\"Nanosocialism\" is a term coined by David M. Berube, the associate director of Nanoscience and Technology Studies at the USC NanoCenter, who argues that nanotechnological projections need to be tempered by technorealism about the implications of nanotechnology in a technocapitalist society, but that its applications also offer enormous opportunities for economic abundance and social progress.\n\nIn the role-playing game \"Transhuman Space\", nanosocialism is described as a descendant of infosocialism, in which intellectual property is nationalized and freely distributed by the state. It is adopted by some developing nations to counter the hold corporations from wealthier nations have on copyrights and patents. This fictional version of nanosocialism was coined by David L. Pulver, the game's creator, who was unaware that the term had already been used by Berube.\n\n"}
{"id": "886895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=886895", "title": "Narrativity", "text": "Narrativity\n\nNarrativity is the extent to which a text tells a story, which is a storyteller's account of an event or a sequence of events leading to a transition from an initial state to a later state or outcome. There are four theoretical foundations of narrativity, represented by the notions of \nNarrative content and discourse are the linguistic antecedents of narrativity. Narrative content reflects the linear sequence of events as characters live through them—that is, the backbone and structure describing who did what, where, when, and why. Narrative discourse represents how the story is told—that is, storytellers' use of literary devices to expand on the narrative content, such as emotional change over the course of the story line and sequencing of events to create drama. Narrative transportation is the engrossing, transformational experience of being swept away by a story. Narrative persuasion is the effect of narrative transportation, which manifests itself in story receivers' positive attitudes toward the story, story-consistent attitudes toward the experience described therein, and story-consistent intentions. The higher the quality of narrative content and discourse in a text, the greater its narrativity and its real-world implications, such as narrative transportation and persuasion, as van Laer, Escalas, Ludwig, and van den Hende show.\n\nThe extent to which story receivers experience narrative transportation and are \"lost\" in the narrative world depends on the level of narrativity of a text. Narratologists distinguish two components of narrativity: content and discourse. The difference between narrative content and narrative discourse is the difference between what is conveyed and how it is conveyed. The features of narrative content align with the structural components of a story (i.e., characters and events). Literary devices, which grant storytellers the power to frame the narrative, are associated with narrative discourse. Variations in these narrative elements affect transportation into the narrative and subsequent persuasion, as the theory of narrativity proposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "7575660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7575660", "title": "National Cultural Foundation", "text": "National Cultural Foundation\n\nThe National Cultural Foundation (NCF) is a statutory body in Barbados, created by an Act of Parliament in March 1983. It organises several major local Barbadian events including Congaline, National Independence Festival of Creative Arts and the crop over festival, as well as sponsoring the Holders Opera Season celebration, the Holetown Festival, B’dos Jazz Festival and the Oistins Fish Festival.\n\nThe traditional celebration was started by African slaves to celebrate the end of the sugar harvest. During the 1940s, the crop over festival declined and remained discreet throughout the following decades. From 1958 to 1964, the event took place in the Kensington Oval. The Barbados government, through its Tourism Authority, returned to organizing the event in 1974. The National Cultural Foundation was established in 1983 (and officially started to operate in January 1984) to conceptualize and organize the crop over festival from then on. The 2014 edition lasted 8 weeks.\n\nThe purpose of the National Cultural Foundation is to:\n\nThe Foundation relies on donors and a yearly-voted government budget to sustain its activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "118691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=118691", "title": "Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act", "text": "Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act\n\nThe Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA), Pub. L. 101-601, 25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq., 104 Stat. 3048, is a United States federal law enacted on 16 November 1990.\n\nThe Act requires federal agencies and institutions that receive federal funding to return Native American \"cultural items\" to lineal descendants and culturally affiliated Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations. Cultural items include human remains, funerary objects, sacred objects, and objects of cultural patrimony. A program of federal grants assists in the repatriation process and the Secretary of the Interior may assess civil penalties on museums that fail to comply.\n\nNAGPRA also establishes procedures for the inadvertent discovery or planned excavation of Native American cultural items on federal or tribal lands. While these provisions do not apply to discoveries or excavations on private or state lands, the collection provisions of the Act may apply to Native American cultural items if they come under the control of an institution that receives federal funding.\n\nLastly, NAGPRA makes it a criminal offense to traffic in Native American human remains without right of possession or in Native American cultural items obtained in violation of the Act. Penalties for a first offense may reach 12 months imprisonment and a $100,000 fine.\n\nThe intent of the NAGPRA legislation is to address long-standing claims by federally recognized tribes for the return of human remains and cultural objects unlawfully obtained from prehistoric, historic, former, and current Native American homelands. Interpretation of human and indigenous rights, prehistoric presence, cultural affiliation with antiquities, and the return of remains and objects can be controversial and contested. It includes provisions that delineate the legal processes by which museums and federal agencies are required to return certain Native American cultural items—human remains, gravesite materials, and other objects of cultural patrimony—to proven lineal descendants, culturally related Native American tribes, and Native Hawaiian groups.\n\nOutcomes of NAGPRA repatriation efforts are slow and cumbersome, leading many tribes to spend considerable effort documenting their requests; collections' holders are obliged to inform and engage with tribes whose materials they may possess. NAGPRA was enacted primarily at the insistence and by the direction of members of Native American nations.\n\nTribes had many reasons based in law that made legislation concerning tribal grave protection and repatriation necessary.\n\nThe Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act is a law that establishes the ownership of cultural items excavated or discovered on federal or tribal land after November 16, 1990. The act also applies to land transferred by the federal government to the states under the Water Resources Department Act. However, the provisions of the legislation do not apply to private lands. The Act states that Native American remains and associated funerary objects belong to lineal descendants. If lineal descendants cannot be identified, then those remains and objects, along with associated funerary and sacred objects, and objects of cultural patrimony belong to the tribe on whose lands the remains were found or the tribe having the closest known relationship to them. Tribes find the burden of proof is on them, if it becomes necessary to demonstrate a cultural relationship that may not be well-documented or understood. Nowhere has this issue been more pronounced than in California, where many small bands were extinguished before they could be recognized, and only a handful, even today, have obtained federal recognition as Native Americans and descendants of Native American bands.\n\nCongress attempted to \"strike a balance between the interest in scientific examination of skeletal remains and the recognition that Native Americans, like people from every culture around the world, have a religious and spiritual reverence for the remains of their ancestors.\"\n\nThe act also requires each federal agency, museum, or institution that receives federal funds to prepare an inventory of remains and funerary objects and a summary of sacred objects, cultural patrimony objects, and unassociated funerary objects. The act provides for repatriation of these items when requested by the appropriate descendant of the tribe. This applies to remains or objects discovered at any time, even before November 16, 1990.\n\nSince the legislation passed, the human remains of approximately 32,000 individuals have been returned to their respective tribes. Nearly 670,000 funerary objects, 120,000 unassociated funerary objects, and 3,500 sacred objects have been returned. \nThe statute attempts to mediate a significant tension that exists between the tribes' communal interests in the respectful treatment of their deceased ancestors and related cultural items and the scientists' individual interests in the study of those same human remains and items. The act divides the treatment of American Indian human remains, funerary objects, sacred objects, and objects of cultural patrimony into two basic categories. Under the inadvertent discovery and planned excavation component of the act and regulations, if federal officials anticipate that activities on federal and tribal lands after November 16, 1990 might have an effect on American Indian burials—or if burials are discovered during such activities—they must consult with potential lineal descendants or American Indian tribal officials as part of their compliance responsibilities. For planned excavations, consultation must occur during the planning phase of the project. For inadvertent discoveries, the regulations delineate a set of short deadlines for initiating and completing consultation. The repatriation provision, unlike the ownership provision, applies to remains or objects discovered at any time, even before the effective date of the act, whether or not discovered on tribal or federal land. The act allows archaeological teams a short time for analysis before the remains must be returned. Once it is determined that human remains are American Indian, analysis can occur only through documented consultation (on federal lands) or consent (on tribal lands).\n\nA criminal provision of the Act prohibits trafficking in Native American human remains, or in Native American \"cultural items.\" Under the inventory and notification provision of the act, federal agencies and institutions that receive federal funds are required to summarize their collections that may contain items subject to NAGPRA. Additionally, federal agencies and institutions must prepare inventories of human remains and funerary objects. Under the act, funerary objects are considered \"associated\" if they were buried as part of a burial ceremony with a set of human remains still in possession of the federal agency or other institution. \"Unassociated\" funerary objects are artifacts where human remains were not initially collected by—or were subsequently destroyed, lost, or no longer in possession of—the agency or institution. Consequently, this legislation also applies to many Native American artifacts, especially burial items and religious artifacts. It has necessitated masscataloguing of the Native American collections in order to identify the living heirs, culturally affiliated Indian tribes, and Native Hawaiian organizations of remains and artifacts. NAGPRA has had a dramatic effect on the day-to-day practice of archaeology and physical anthropology in the United States. In many cases, NAGPRA helped stimulate interactions of archaeologists and museum professionals with Native Americans that were felt to be constructive by all parties.\n\nThe late 19th century was one of the most difficult periods in Native American history in regards to the loss of cultural artifacts and land. With the founding of museums and scholarly studies of Native American peoples increasing with the growth of anthropology and archeology as disciplines, private collectors and museums competed to acquire artifacts, which many Native Americans considered ancestral assets, but others sold. This competition existed not only between museums such as the Smithsonian Institution (founded in 1846) and museums associated with universities, but also between museums in the United States and museums in Europe. In the 1880s and 1890s, collecting was done by untrained adventurers. As of the year 1990, federal agencies reported having the remains of 14,500 deceased Natives in their possession, which had accumulated since the late 19th century. Many institutions said they used the remains of Native Americans for anthropological research, to gain more information about humans. At one time, in since discredited comparative racial studies, institutions such as the Army Medical Museum sought to demonstrate racial characteristics to prove the inferiority of Native Americans.\n\nMaria Pearson is often credited with being the earliest catalyst for the passage of NAGPRA legislation; she has been called \"the Founding Mother of modern Indian repatriation movement\" and the \"Rosa Parks of NAGPRA\". In the early 1970s, Pearson was appalled that the skeletal remains of Native Americans were treated differently from white remains. Her husband, an engineer with the Iowa Department of Transportation, told her that both Native American and white remains were uncovered during road construction in Glenwood, Iowa. While the remains of 26 white burials were quickly reburied, the remains of a Native American mother and child were sent to a lab for study instead. Pearson protested to Governor Robert D. Ray, finally gaining an audience with him after sitting outside his office in traditional attire. \"You can give me back my people's bones and you can quit digging them up\", she responded when the governor asked what he could do for her. The ensuing controversy led to the passage of the Iowa Burials Protection Act of 1976, the first legislative act in the United States that specifically protected Native American remains.\n\nEmboldened by her success, Pearson went on to lobby national leaders, and her efforts, combined with the work of many other activists, led to the creation of NAGPRA. Pearson and other activists were featured in the 1995 BBC documentary \"Bones of Contention\".\n\nThe 1987 looting of a 500-year-old burial mound at the Slack Farm in Kentucky, in which human remains were tossed to the side while relics were stolen, made national news and helped to galvanize popular support for protection of Native American graves. Likewise, several protests at the Dickson Mounds site in Illinois, where numerous Indian skeletons were exposed on display, also increased national awareness of the issue.\n\n\"Return to the Earth\" is an inter-religious project whose goal is to inter unidentified remains in regional burial sites. Over 110,000 remains that cannot be associated with a particular tribe are held in institutions across the United States, as of 2006. The project seeks to enable a process of reconciliation between Native and non-Native peoples, construct cedar burial boxes, produce burial cloths and fund the repatriation of remains. The first of the burial sites is near the Cheyenne Cultural Center in Clinton, Oklahoma.\n\nA few archeologists are concerned that they are being prevented from studying ancient remains which cannot be traced to any historic tribe. Many of the tribes migrated to their territories at the time of European encounter within 100–500 years from other locations, so their ancestors were not located in the historic territories. Such controversies have repeatedly stalled archaeological investigations, such as in the case of the Spirit Cave mummy; fears have been voiced that an anti-scientific sentiment could well have permeated politics to an extent that scientists might find their work to be continuously barred by Native Americans rights activists.\n\nCompliance with the legislation can be complicated. One example of controversy is that of Kennewick Man, a skeleton found on July 28, 1996 near Kennewick, Washington. The federally recognized Umatilla, Colville, Yakima, and Nez Perce tribes had each claimed Kennewick Man as their ancestor, and sought permission to rebury him. Kennewick, Washington is classified as part of the ancestral land of the Umatilla.\n\nArchaeologists said that because of Kennewick Man's great age, there was insufficient evidence to connect him to modern tribes. The great age of the remains makes this discovery scientifically valuable. As archaeologists, forensic specialists, and linguists differed about whether the adult male was of indigenous origin, the standing law, if conclusively found by a preponderance of evidence to be Native American, would give the tribe of the geographic area where he was found a claim to the remains. New evidence could still emerge in defense of tribal claims to ancestry, but emergent evidence may require more sophisticated and precise methods of determining genetic descent, given that there was no cultural evidence accompanying the remains.\n\nOne tribe claiming ancestry to Kennewick Man offered up a DNA test, and in 2015 it was found that the Kennewick man is \"more closely related to modern Native Americans than any other living population.\" In September 2016, the US House and Senate passed legislation to return the ancient bones to a coalition of Columbia Basin tribes for reburial according to their traditions. The coalition includes the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Nation, the Nez Perce Tribe, the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Reservation, and the Wanapum Band of Priest Rapids. The remains were buried on February 18, 2017, with 200 members of five Columbia Basin tribes, at an undisclosed location in the area.\n\nThe issues of such resources are being addressed by international groups dealing with indigenous rights. For example, in 1995 the United States signed an agreement with El Salvador in order to protect all pre‑Columbian artifacts from leaving the region. Soon after, it signed similar agreements with Canada, Peru, Guatemala, and Mali and demonstrated leadership in implementing the 1970 UNESCO Convention. The UNESCO convention had membership increase to 86 countries by 1997, and 193 by 2007. UNESCO appears to be reducing the illicit antiquities trade. It is not an easy business to track, but the scholar Phyllis Messenger notes that some antiquities traders have written articles denouncing the agreements, which suggests that it is reducing items sold to them.\n\nAn international predecessor of the UNESCO Convention and NAGPRA is the 1954 Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. The Hague Convention was the first international convention to focus on preserving cultural heritage from the devastation of war. Looting and destruction of other civilizations have been characteristics of war recorded from the first accounts of all cultures.\nOn September 30, 1897, Lieutenant Robert Peary brought six Inuit people from Greenland to the American Museum of Natural History in New York, at the request of the anthropologist Franz Boas, in order to \"obtain leisurely certain information which will be of the greatest scientific importance\" regarding Inuit culture. About two weeks after arrival at the museum, all six of the Inuit people became sick with colds and fever. They began to perform their tribal healing process and were mocked for their bizarre behavior. These people became a form of entertainment for the Americans. By November 1, 1897, they were admitted to the Bellevue Hospital Center with tuberculosis, which they likely had contracted before their trip. In February, the first Inuit died and shortly after that two more followed. By the time the sickness had run its course, two men survived. \"Minik\" was adopted by a superintendent of the museum, while \"Uissakassak\" returned to his homeland in Greenland. Later, after being lied to and being told that his father Qisuk had received a proper Inuit burial, Minik was shocked to find his father's skeleton on display in the museum.\n\nIn 1993 the museum finally agreed to return the four Inuit skeletons to Greenland for proper burial. Representatives of the Museum went to Greenland that year to participate. In contrast to peoples in other areas, some local Inuit thought that the burial was more desired by the Christian representatives of the museum, and that the remains could have just as appropriately been kept in New York. David Hurst Thomas' study of the case shows the complexity of reburial and repatriation cases, and the need for individual approaches to each case by all affected parties.\n\nIn the United States, the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (ARPA) protects archaeological sites on federally owned lands. Privately owned sites are controlled by the owners. In some areas, archaeological foundations or similar organizations buy archaeological sites to conserve associated the cultural property.\n\nOther countries may use three basic types of laws to protect cultural remains:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "72462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72462", "title": "Northwest Caucasian languages", "text": "Northwest Caucasian languages\n\nThe Northwest Caucasian languages, also called West Caucasian, Abkhazo-Adyghean, Circassic, or sometimes Pontic (as opposed to \"Caspian\" for the Northeast Caucasian languages), are a group of languages spoken in the northwestern Caucasus region, chiefly in three Russian republics (Adygea, Kabardino-Balkaria, Karachay–Cherkessia), the disputed territory of Abkhazia (whose sovereignty is claimed by Georgia), and Turkey, with smaller communities scattered throughout the Middle East. This language group's relationship to other language families is uncertain. One language, Ubykh, became extinct in 1992, while all of the other languages are in some form of endangerment, with UNESCO classifying all as either \"vulnerable,\" \"endangered,\" or \"severely endangered.\"\n\nThe entire family is characterised by a paucity of phonemic vowels (two or three, depending upon the analysis) coupled with rich consonantal systems that include many forms of secondary articulation. Ubykh (Ubyx), for example, had both the minimal number of vowels (two), and probably the largest inventory of consonants outside Southern Africa.\n\nLinguistic reconstructions suggest that both the richness of the consonantal systems and the poverty of the vocalic systems may be the result of a historical process, whereby vowel features such as labialisation and palatalisation were reassigned to adjacent consonants. For example, ancestral may have become and may have become , losing the old vowels */i/ and */u/ but gaining the new consonants and . The linguist John Colarusso has further postulated that some instances of this may also be due to the levelling of an old grammatical class prefix system (so may have become ), on the basis of pairs like Ubykh vs. Kabardian and Abkhaz \"heart\". This same process is claimed by some to lie behind the development of labiovelars in Proto-Indo-European which once neighboured Proto-NWC.\n\nNorthwest Caucasian languages have rather simple noun systems, with only a handful of cases at the most, coupled with highly agglutinative verbal systems that can contain almost the entire syntactic structure of the sentence. All finite verbs are marked for agreement with three arguments: absolutive, ergative, and indirect object, and there are also a wide range of applicative constructions. There is a split between \"dynamic\" and \"stative\" verbs, with dynamic verbs having an especially complex morphology. A verb's morphemes indicate the subject's and object's person, place, time, manner of action, negative, and other types of grammatical categories.\n\nAll Northwest Caucasian languages are left-branching, so that the verb comes at the end of the sentence and modifiers such as relative clauses precede a noun.\n\nNorthwest Caucasian languages do not generally permit more than one finite verb in a sentence, which precludes the existence of subordinate clauses in the Indo-European sense. Equivalent functions are performed by extensive arrays of nominal and participial non-finite verb forms, though Abkhaz appears to be developing limited subordinate clauses, perhaps under the influence of Russian.\n\nThere are five recognized languages in the Northwest Caucasian family: Abkhaz, Abaza, Kabardian or East Circassian, Adyghe or West Circassian, and Ubykh. They are classified as follows:\n\n\nCircassian (Cherkess) is a cover term for the series of dialects that include the literary languages of Adyghe and Kabardian.\n\nAdyghe is one of the more widely spoken Northwest Caucasian languages. It has 500,000 speakers spread throughout Russia and the Middle East: 280,000 in Turkey; 125,000 in Russia, where it is official in the Republic of Adygea; 45,000 in Jordan, 25,000 in Syria, 20,000 in Iraq, and 4,000 in Israel. There is even a small community in the United States. Four main dialects are recognised: Temirgoy, Abadzekh, Shapsugh and Bzhedugh, as well as many minor ones such as Hakuchi spoken by the last speakers of Ubykh in Turkey. Adyghe has a large number of consonants: between 50 and 60 consonants in the various Adyghe dialects but it has only three phonemic vowels. Its consonants and consonant clusters are less complex than the Abkhaz–Abaza dialects.\n\nKabardian has just over one million speakers: 550,000 in Turkey and 450,000 in Russia, where it is an official language of the republics of Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay–Cherkessia. Kabardian has the least number of consonants of any North-Western Caucasian language, with 48, including some rather unusual ejective fricatives and a small number of vowels. Kabardian itself has several dialects, including Terek, the literary standard, and Besleney, which is intelligible with both Terek and Adyghe. Unlike the Adyghe, Kabardian lost many of the consonants that existed in the Proto-Circassian language, for example the consonants /ʃʷʼ/ /ʐʷ/ /ʂʷ/ /ʐ/ /ʂ/ /tsʷ/ /dzʷ/ became /fʼ/ /v/ /f/ /ʑ/ /ɕ/ /f/ /v/.\n\nAbkhaz has 100,000 speakers in Abkhazia (a \"de facto\" independent republic, but a \"de jure\" autonomous entity within Georgia), where it is the official language, and an unknown number of speakers in Turkey. It has been a literary language from the beginning of the 20th century. Abkhaz and Abaza may be said to be dialects of the same language, but each preserves phonemes which the other has lost. Abkhaz is characterised by unusual consonant clusters and one of the world's smallest vowel inventories: It has only two distinctive vowels, an open vowel /a/ and a mid vowel /ə/. Next to palatalized or labialized consonants, /a/ is realized as [e] or [o], and /ə/ as [i] or [u]. There are three major dialects: Abzhuy and Bzyp in Abkhazia and Sadz in Turkey.\n\nAbaza has some 45,000 speakers, 35,000 in Russia and 10,000 in Turkey. It is a literary language, but nowhere official. It shares with Abkhaz the distinction of having just two phonemic vowels. Abaza is phonologically more complex than Abkhaz, and is characterised by large consonant clusters, similar to those that can be found in Georgian. There are three major dialects, Tapant and Ashkhar. Some are partially intelligible with Abkhaz.\n\nUbykh forms a third branch, with parallels to both Adyghe and Abkhaz. The population switched to speaking Adyghe, and Ubykh became extinct on October 7, 1992, with the death of Tevfik Esenç. A dialectal division within Ubykh was suspected by Georges Dumézil, but the divergent form he described in 1965 was never investigated further. With eighty-one consonants, Ubykh had perhaps the largest inventory in the world aside from the Kx'a and Tuu families of southern Africa with their extensive system of clicks. There are pharyngealised consonants and a four-way place contrast among sibilants. It was the only Northwest Caucasian language never to have a literary form.\n\nA number of factors make the reconstruction of the Northwest Caucasian proto-language problematic:\n\nFor these reasons, Proto–Northwest Caucasian is widely accepted as being one of the most difficult proto-languages to deal with, and it is therefore more difficult than most to relate to other families.\n\nSome scholars have seen affinities between the Northwest Caucasian (Circassian) family and the extinct Hattic language. Hattic was spoken in Anatolia (Turkey), in the area around ancient Hattusa (modern Boğazköy), until about 1800 BCE, when it was replaced by the Indo-European Hittite language. The name Hetto-Iberian (or Proto-Iberian) was proposed by Georgian historian Simon Janashia for a superfamily comprising the South Caucasian languages, other Caucasian language groups, Hattic and other languages of ancient Anatolia. (The Iberian in the name refers to Caucasian Iberia, a kingdom centered in eastern Georgia which lasted from the 4th century BCE to the 5th century CE; it is not related to the Iberian Peninsula.)\n\nMany Northwest Caucasian (Adygean) family names have prefixes like \"Hath\" or \"Hatti\", and one of the well known Adyghe tribes has the name \"Hatuqwai\" () (From Хьаты (\"Hatti\") + Кхъуэ (\"male or son\"); meaning \"HattiSon\").\n\nIt has been conjectured that the North-West Caucasian languages may be genetically related to the Indo-European family, at a time depth of perhaps 12,000 years before the present. This hypothesised proto-language is called Proto-Pontic, but is not widely accepted.\n\nThere does at least appear to have been extensive contact between the two proto-languages, and the resemblances may be due to this influence.\n\nMany linguists join the Northwest and Northeast Caucasian languages into a \"North Caucasian\" family, sometimes simply called Kavkazian (in opposition to Kartvelian (South Caucasian), which is thought to be unrelated, albeit heavily influenced by their northern neighbours). This hypothesis has perhaps been best illustrated by Sergei A. Starostin and Sergei Nikolayev, who present a set of phonological correspondences and shared morphological structure. However, there is no consensus that the relationship has been demonstrated, and many consider the correspondences to be spurious for the reasons mentioned above. See the article on North Caucasian languages for details, as well as the external links below.\n\nA few linguists have proposed even broader relationships, of which the Dene–Caucasian hypothesis is perhaps the most popular. Dene–Caucasian links the North Caucasian (including Northwest Caucasian), Basque, Burushaski, Yeniseian, Sino-Tibetan, and Na–Dene families. However, this is an even more tentative hypothesis than Nostratic, which attempts to relate Kartvelian, Indo-European, Uralic, and Altaic, etc., and which is widely considered to be undemonstrated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35672752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35672752", "title": "Parentocracy", "text": "Parentocracy\n\nA parentocracy is a system in which a child's education must conform to the wealth and wishes of parents rather than the abilities and efforts of the pupil, in contrast to a meritocracy, which distributes educational and financial rewards according to abilities and efforts. Parentocracy is a sociological concept that reflects political ideology, and has influenced the organization of schools since the 1988 Education Reform act. Fundamentally, the parents have dominating rights and choice in education regardless of means.\n\nSince the 1988 Education Reform Act, social policy has created a relationship between parents and schools in the UK, which is characterised by the principles of marketization. It is argued that parents are now primarily seen as educational consumers, whose choices determine the type of education their child receives. For example, a parent's choice to live in the catchment area for a particular school potentially determines that child’s educational success. This ideathat parents are consumers through marketizationis countered by obligations and restrictions. The capacity to exercise choice is limited by social class, both on economic grounds and cultural capital, e.g., the actual cost of moving into an catchment area with a desirable school.\n\nSociologists Fulcher and Scott say that in a parentocracy, Resources + Preferences = Choice. As Ball, et al. says, not everyone has the same resources to make the same decisions. For example, middle class parents are more likely to pay for tutoring for their child to pass exams, while working class may have the same intention but cannot. Ball also discusses how marketization only ‘appeared’ to create a parentocracy, by providing equal right to education and letting parents choose which they want their child to attend.\n\nSharon Gerwitz explored this, writing that middle class parents have more economic and cultural capital than working class parents, and this lets them take advantage of the choices available. They can send their children to schools they desire by having the ability to afford travel expenses, and that they can move into a catchment area easier than that of a working-class family. She also noted how middle class parents socialised their children into attending church just to get their children into schools considered reputable. This shows how, as Ball, et al. says, wealth largely determines the extent of choice.\n\nDespite the argued inequality and lack of choice, many factors counter-act this. For instance labour policies included things such as education action zones to improve choices. Education action zones supposedly identify areas considered deprived so that they could be improved through additional resources. A recently approved proposal raises the school leaving age to 18. This increases parentocracy as it helps student of all backgrounds receive a higher education, as opposed to the previous age, 16, which restricted many students and families.\n\nAnother policy, EMA, also encourages more choice, as it enables students from a low income family ( e.g., working class) to have education equal to those from any class or ethnicity by providing an educational maintenance allowance that helps students stay in school past 16. Witty does think that the EMA policy helps keep working class students continue past 16, but he thinks that higher education fees stops them going further.\n\nAs witty shows, fees are important in education, especially considering types of schools such as private schools, which require fees for admission, and even explored fees in higher education, such as universities. Educationalists believed that a meritocracy would foster 'equality of opportunity' in education, breaking down some of the social class barriers that restrict people with fees.\n\nBrown, however, suggests that we are now entering a 'third wave' in the history of schooling, moving away from the 'ideology of meritocracy' to a new \"ideology of parentocracy\". This is driven by a belief in parental rights, and strongly favours the philosophy of market principles in education.\n\nChoice breeds competition—but if schools must compete for reputation, choices may actually become limited as popular schools cannot expand, so they become increasingly selective. The big school lottery programme explores this, providing statistical evidence that out of 830 appeals of parents who didn't get their choice for their child’s education, only 28 were successful and 95 per cent were dismissed all together. Judd agrees with the views expressed by the programme, saying that between 25-50% of parents do not get their children into their choice of school. This is similar to the fact that schools can opt out of government control. This elaborates how those who can afford it can choose a school with high admissions cost ( such as a private school), while those who cannot are restricted to limited to free or less expensive choices. Even expensive schools, however, can fail.\n\nAdditionally, By 2008, nearly 90% of secondary schools in England became specialist schools, providing a range of specialist options from business, engineering, or maths—to humanities, music, and art.\n\nRaey says that marketization created growing inequalities in education among parents especially in relation to class, gender, and ethnicity. With the introduction of \"parent contracts\", home and school contracts made parents responsible for students truancy, and put them at risk of fine, prosecution, or even prison.\n\nBrown, P. (1990) The 'third wave':education and the ideology of parentocracy. British Journal of Sociology 11:1.\nIs Britain a parentocracy? Exploration of whether we really have a choice in our childs schooling.://bloggerbinding.hubpages.com/hub/parentocracy\n"}
{"id": "423388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423388", "title": "Political colour", "text": "Political colour\n\nPolitical colours are colours used to represent a political party, either officially or unofficially. Parties in different countries with similar ideologies sometimes use similar colours. For example, the colour red symbolises left-wing ideologies in many countries (see the red flag, Red Army and Red Scare) while the colour orange symbolizes Christian democratic political ideology. However, the political associations of a given colour vary from country to country: red is also the colour associated with the conservative Republican Party in the United States. Politicians making public appearances will often identify themselves by wearing rosettes, flowers or ties in the colour of their political party.\n\nBlue is usually associated with centre-right or conservative parties, originating from its use by the Tory party (the predecessor of the Conservative Party) in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n\nGreen is the colour for both environmentalist and Islamic political parties and movements (see green in Islam).\n\nOrange is the traditional colour of the Christian democratic political ideology and most Christian democratic political parties, which are based on Catholic social teaching and/or neo-Calvinist theology. Christian democratic political parties came to prominence in Europe and the Americas after World War II.\n\nOrange since 1989 has represented Post-Communist Democratic Revolutions in Eastern Europe.\nIt less frequently represents various kinds of populist parties. Such is the case in Austria, Germany, France, Portugal, Switzerland, Finland, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Turkey.\n\n\nAlthough purple has some older associations with monarchism, it is the most prominent colour that is not traditionally connected to any major contemporary ideology. As such, it is sometimes used to represent a mix of different ideologies, or new protest movements that are critical of all previously-existing parties.\n\nRed is traditionally associated with socialism and communism. The oldest symbol of socialism (and by extension communism) is the Red Flag, which dates back to the French Revolution in the 18th century and the revolutions of 1848. Before this nascence, the colour red was generally associated with monarchy or the Church due to the symbolism and association of Christ's blood. The colour red was chosen to represent the blood of the workers who died in the struggle against capitalism. All major socialist and communist alliances and organisations—including the First, Second and Third Internationals—used red as their official colour. The association between the colour red and communism is particularly strong. Communists use red much more often and more extensively than other ideologies use their respective traditional colours.\n\nIn India, saffron is traditionally associated with Hinduism, Hindutva and the Hindu nationalist movement. Saffron was chosen because in Hindu Sanatana Dharma, the deep saffron colour is associated with sacrifice, religious abstinence, quest for light and salvation. Saffron or \"Bhagwa\" is the most sacred colour for the Hindus and is often worn by Sanyasis who have left their home in search of the ultimate truth.\n\nWhite is today mainly linked to pacifism (as in the surrender flag) and in politics of the United Kingdom to independent politicians such as Martin Bell.\n\nYellow is the colour most commonly associated with liberalism. It is the official colour of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE), as well as being the colour of liberal parties in Germany, Romania, Estonia and the United Kingdom (the Liberal Democrats). Yellow or gold, usually together with blue or purple, is also often used to represent right-libertarianism and classical liberalism.\n\nNotable national political colour schemes include:\n\n"}
{"id": "57361466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57361466", "title": "Prefect Qiao Rearranges Matches in an Arbitrary Decision", "text": "Prefect Qiao Rearranges Matches in an Arbitrary Decision\n\n\"Prefect Qiao Rearranges Matches in an Arbitrary Decision\" (喬太守亂點鴛鴦譜) is a Chinese comedy from the 1627 short-story anthology \"Stories to Awaken the World\" by Feng Menglong. An earlier and much shorter version titled \"They Become a Couple Thanks to Their Brother and Sister\" (因兄姊得成夫婦) is found in Luo Ye (羅燁)'s \"The Drunken Man's Talk\" (醉翁談錄) from the 13th century, but because this book was lost for centuries and not re-discovered until 1941 (in Japan), this version is relatively unknown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33129621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33129621", "title": "Representative Men", "text": "Representative Men\n\nRepresentative Men is a collection of seven lectures by Ralph Waldo Emerson, published as a book of essays in 1850. The first essay discusses the role played by \"great men\" in society, and the remaining six each extol the virtues of one of six men deemed by Emerson to be great:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1172310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172310", "title": "Ritualism in the Church of England", "text": "Ritualism in the Church of England\n\nRitualism, in the history of Christianity, refers to an emphasis on the rituals and liturgical ceremony of the church, in particular of Holy Communion.\n\nIn the Anglican church in the 19th century, the role of ritual became a contentious matter. The debate over ritual was also associated with struggles between High Church and Low Church movements.\nIn Anglicanism, the term \"ritualist\" is controversial (i.e. rejected by some of those to whom it is applied). It was often used to describe the second generation of the Oxford Movement/Anglo-Catholic/High Church revival of the 19th century which sought to reintroduce into the Church of England a range of Catholic liturgical practices. The term is also used to describe those who follow in their tradition.\n\nArguments about ritualism in the Church of England were often shaped by opposing (and often unannounced) attitudes towards the concept of \"sola scriptura\" and the nature of the authority of the Bible for Christians.\n\nThose who support the ritualist outlook in the Church of England have often argued that the adoption of key elements of Roman Catholic ritual:\n\nThose who oppose ritualism in the Church of England have generally argued that it:\n\nThe development of ritualism in the Church of England was mainly associated with what is commonly called \"second generation\" Anglo-Catholicism, i.e. the Oxford Movement as it developed after 1845 when John Henry Newman left the Church of England to become a Roman Catholic. Some scholars argued that it was almost inevitable that some of the leaders of Anglo-Catholicism turned their attentions to questions of liturgy and ritual and started to champion the use of practices and forms of worship more commonly associated with Roman Catholicism. There was only limited enthusiasm amongst ritualists to introduce the widespread use of Latin in the liturgy.\nThe leaders of the first generation of the Anglo-Catholic revival or Oxford Movement (e.g. Newman, Edward Bouverie Pusey, and John Keble) had been primarily concerned with theological and ecclesiological questions and had little concern with questions of ritual. They championed the view that the fundamental identity of the Church of England was Catholic rather than Protestant. They had argued that Anglicans were bound by obedience to the use of the \"Book of Common Prayer\". \"Tract 3\" of the \"Tracts for the Times\" series had strenuously argued against any revision of the \"Book of Common Prayer\", viewing its use as a matter of absolute obligation. Even \"Tract 90\", which analysed the 39 Articles, was more concerned with the theological dimension of the issue. It gave little attention to the question of altering current liturgical practice in the Church of England.\n\nThe ecclesiological questions gave rise to an interest in giving liturgical expression to the theological conviction that the Church of England had sustained a fundamentally Catholic character after the English Reformation. In some circles, the shift of focus to the question of liturgy proved as provocative as had been the theological assertions of the first generation of Anglo-Catholicism.\n\nThe clearest illustration of the shift that took place within Anglo-Catholicism from theological to liturgical questions is to be found in Pusey's attitude towards ritualism. Pusey, the only pre-eminent first-generation leader of Anglo-Catholicism to survive into the second generation, had no sympathy with the preoccupation with ritual. However, when priests started to be prosecuted and imprisoned as a result of the Public Worship Regulation Act 1874, Pusey was quick to show his support for those who were prosecuted.\n\nFrom the 1850s to the 1890s, several liturgical practices espoused by many ritualists led to some occasional and intense local controversies – some leading to prosecutions (most notably as a result of the Public Worship Regulation Act 1874). Those considered most important by adherents of the Catholic movement were known as the \"six points\":\n\nOther contentious practices included:\n\nIn regard to the \"North Side\" celebration. At the time of the Reformation, altars were fixed against the east end of the church, and the priests would celebrate the Mass standing at the front of the altar. Beginning with the rubrics of the Second Prayer Book of Edward VI published in 1552, and through the 1662 Book of Common Prayer (which prevailed for almost 300 years), the priest is directed to stand \"at the north syde of the Table.\" This was variously interpreted over the years to mean the north side of the front of a fixed communion table, the north end of a fixed table (i.e., facing south), the north side of a free-standing table (presumably facing those intending to receive the Elements who would be sitting in the quire stalls opposite), or at the north end of a free-standing table lengthwise in the chancel, facing a congregation seated in the nave. If the last option then it would copy the practice of the Early Church when the celebrant stood before a small stone or marble table, usually rectangular, facing the nave.\n\nThe ritualist movement (see Cambridge Camden Society) also played a substantial role in promoting:\nThe prosecution and conviction of Arthur Tooth in 1876, Sidney Faithorn Green in 1879 and Richard William Enraght in 1880 are good illustrative examples of the kind of issues that could be involved in controversies caused by these liturgical practices. The prosecutions (which were often instigated by the Church Association) gave considerable impetus to the foundation and work of the English Church Union. The Society of the Holy Cross (SSC) played a crucial role in championing and developing the use of elements of proscribed Catholic ritual in Anglicanism.\n\nFor many who opposed ritualism, the key concern was to defend what they saw as the fundamentally Protestant identity of the Church of England. Nor was this just a matter of an ecclesiological argument: for many, there was a sense that Catholic worship is somehow \"un-English\". Catholicism was deeply associated in many minds with cultural identities which, historically, many English people had commonly treated with suspicion, especially the Spanish, the French, and the Irish.\n\nFor an ideological defence of this position, it was argued that English identity was closely tied in with England's history as a Protestant country that, after the Reformation, had played a key role in opposing Catholic powers in Continental Europe (especially Spain and then France). In the minds of such people, Protestantism was inextricably identified with anti-despotic values and Catholicism with autocracy that, in the religious arena, hid behind the \"disguise\" of such things as complicated rituals whose meaning deliberately lacked transparency. The opposition to ritualism therefore had a deeply cultural and symbolic significance that extended far beyond purely theological concerns.\n\nRitualists themselves were often at pains to try and present the \"Englishness\" of the ritual they championed by (mostly) keeping English as the language of the liturgy and reconstructing Anglo-Catholicism as a recovery of pre-Reformation Catholic forms that were specifically English: a revival of interest in the Sarum Rite (the pre-Reformation Catholic liturgy of Salisbury) was sparked off by the Ritualist movement. This tendency was also often expressed in such details as the revival in the use of the pre-Reformation Gothic forms rather than the Baroque – the Baroque was more closely linked in the minds of many with specifically continental and Counter Reformation forms.\n\nAlthough ritualism had an aesthetic and ideological appeal for many in the cultural elite, and had a cognate relationship with the Gothic Revival, the idea that it was inextricably linked with an inclination towards political despotism was a misapprehension. Ritualism had an appeal for many who were politically conservative and had supporters highly placed in the establishment (e.g. Viscount Halifax and the 4th Marquess of Bath). However, the outlook of many of the ritualist clergy themselves, many of whom inevitably operated in some of the most deprived communities in England, resulted in their becoming politically radicalised by the experience – some became ardent Christian Socialists.\n\nIn the spectrum of hostility that it aroused, ritualism also provoked in some of its opponents a reaction that saw its theatricality and its aestheticism as symptoms of \"effeminacy\". A typical charge was that ritualistic clergy were \"man milliners\", more concerned with lace and brocade than doctrine. Adverse reaction to this played a significant role in the evolution of the Broad and Low Church enthusiasm for \"muscular Christianity\".\n\nOne of the key ideological justifications used by many of the early ritualists, apart from the fact that it was a symbolic way of affirming their belief in the essentially Catholic nature of Anglicanism, was the argument that it provided a particularly effective medium for bringing Christianity to the poorest, \"slum parishes\" of the Church of England.\n\nIt was argued that ritual and aesthetically impressive liturgy did not only provide a powerful contrast to the drabness of the lives of the poor, its emphasis on symbol and action rather than word was a more effective medium for spreading Christian faith in areas with poor literacy rates than the highly cerebral and logocentric worship that was focused on the Book of Common Prayer. This argument may have had some merits, but, very often, the respect that the most successful ritualists often gained in the highly impoverished communities they went to serve was based on the fact that they had expressed a genuine pastoral concern for the poor amongst whom they lived.\n\nThe argument for ritualism in Anglicanism was also based on the analogy of the success of the Roman Catholic Church amongst the highly impoverished Irish migrant communities in the urban areas of England – it was argued by some that ritual played a key role in the growth of the Roman Catholic Church amongst the poor. However, the use of ritual probably played little more than a subsidiary role in the success of the Catholic Church in this area: its success was probably largely due to a special cultural identity that many Irish migrants felt with the Roman Catholic Church as one of the few institutions that they encountered in diaspora that was also a feature of life in their homeland.\n\nThe ritualists use of vestments and wafer bread have become widespread, even normative, in the Church of England for much of the 20th century.\n\nAlthough many members of the Church of England today still feel uncomfortable or sceptical about certain 'Catholic' or 'Romish' liturgical practices, they would be astonished to be told that, in the late 19th century, using incense, wearing vestments, putting candles on the altar, the mixed cup, making the sign of the Cross over the congregation, and using unleavened (wafer) bread in the Eucharist could spark riots, put priests in prison and even led in 1888–90 to the prosecution of a bishop – Edward King, Bishop of Lincoln. The lasting legacy is that the Ritualists won: the current liturgical style in its various manifestations in almost all Anglican parishes world-wide is much closer to the way Mass was celebrated 500 years ago even in Low Church and 'mid-range' parishes. What offended so many 150 years ago are the new norm and even fewer seem to care or even know about past fights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33270508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33270508", "title": "Sword Art Online", "text": "Sword Art Online\n\nAn anime television series produced by A-1 Pictures, known simply as \"Sword Art Online\", aired in Japan between July and December 2012, with television film \"Sword Art Online: Extra Edition\" airing on December 31, 2013, and a second season, titled \"Sword Art Online II\", airing between July and December 2014. An animated film titled \"\" featuring an original story by Kawahara premiered in Japan and Southeast Asia on February 18, 2017, and was released in the United States on March 9, 2017. A spin-off anime series titled \"Sword Art Online Alternative Gun Gale Online\" premiered in April 2018, while a third season titled \"Sword Art Online: Alicization\" premiered on October 7, 2018. A live-action series will be produced by Netflix. Six video games based on the series have been released for multiple consoles.\n\n\"Sword Art Online\" has received widespread commercial success, with the light novels having over 20 million copies sold worldwide. The anime series has received mixed to positive reviews, praised for its animation, musical score, and exploration of the psychological aspects of virtual reality, but criticized for its pacing and writing.\n\nThe light novel series spans several virtual reality worlds, beginning with the titular world of \"Sword Art Online\". Each world is built on a game engine called the World Seed, which was initially developed specifically for \"SAO\" by Akihiko Kayaba, but was later duplicated for \"ALO\", and later willed to Kirito, who had it leaked online with the successful intention of reviving the virtual reality industry.\n\nIn 2022, a virtual reality massively multiplayer online role-playing game (VRMMORPG) called \"Sword Art Online\" (\"SAO\") is released. With the NerveGear, a helmet that stimulates the user's five senses via their brain, players can experience and control their in-game characters with their minds. Both the game and the NerveGear were created by Akihiko Kayaba.\n\nOn November 6, 10,000 players log into the \"SAO\"s mainframe cyberspace for the first time, only to discover that they are unable to log out. Kayaba appears and tells the players that they must beat all 100 floors of Aincrad, a steel castle which is the setting of \"SAO\", if they wish to be free. Those who suffer in-game deaths or forcibly remove the NerveGear out-of-game will suffer real-life deaths.\n\nOne of the players, named Kazuto \"Kirito\" Kirigaya, is one of 1,000 testers in the game's previous closed beta. With the advantage of previous VR gaming experience and a drive to protect other beta testers from discrimination, he isolates himself from the greater groups and plays the game alone, bearing the mantle of \"beater\", a portmanteau of \"beta tester\" and \"cheater\". As the players progress through the game Kirito eventually befriends a young girl named Asuna Yuuki, forming a relationship with and later marrying her in-game. After the duo discover the identity of Kayaba's secret ID, who was playing as the leader of the guild Asuna joined in, they confront and destroy him, freeing themselves and the other players from the game.\n\nIn the real world, Kazuto discovers that 300 \"SAO\" players, including Asuna, remain trapped in their NerveGear. As he goes to the hospital to see Asuna, he meets Shouzou Yuuki, Asuna's father, who is asked by an associate of his, Nobuyuki Sugou, to make a decision, which Sugou later reveals to be his marriage with Asuna, angering Kazuto. Several months later, he is informed by Agil, another \"SAO\" survivor, that a figure similar to Asuna was spotted on \"The World Tree\" in another VRMMORPG cyberspace called \"Alfheim Online\" (\"ALO\"). Assisted in-game by his cousin Suguha \"Leafa\" Kirigaya and Yui, a navigation pixie (originally an AI from \"SAO\"), he quickly learns that the trapped players in \"ALO\" are part of a plan conceived by Sugou to perform illegal experiments on their minds. The goal is to create the perfect mind-control for financial gain and to subjugate Asuna, whom he intends to marry in the real world, to assume control of her family's corporation. Kirito eventually stops the experiment and rescues the remaining 300 \"SAO\" players, foiling Sugou's plans. Before leaving \"ALO\" to see Asuna, Kayaba, who has uploaded his mind to the Internet using an experimental and destructively high-power version of NerveGear at the cost of his life, entrusts Kirito with The Seed – a package program designed to create virtual worlds. Kazuto eventually reunites with Asuna in the real world and The Seed is released onto the Internet, reviving Aincrad as other VRMMORPGs begin to thrive.\n\nSoon after, at the prompting of a government official investigating strange occurrences in VR, Kazuto takes on a job to investigate a series of murders involving another VRMMORPG called \"Gun Gale Online\" (\"GGO\"), the AmuSphere (the successor of the NerveGear), and a player called Death Gun. Aided by a female player named Shino \"Sinon\" Asada, he participates in a gunfight tournament called the Bullet of Bullets (BoB) and discovers the truth behind the murders, which originated with a player who participated in a player-killing guild in \"SAO\". Through his and Sinon's efforts, two suspects are captured, though the third suspect, Johnny Black, escapes.\n\nKazuto is later recruited to assist in testing an experimental FullDive machine, Soul Translator (STL), which has an interface that is far more realistic and complex than the previous machine he had played to help develop an artificial intelligence for the Ministry of Defense (MOD) named A.L.I.C.E. He tests the STL by entering a virtual reality cyberspace created with The Seed package, named UnderWorld (UW). In the UW, the flow of time proceeds a thousand times faster than in the real world, and Kirito's memories of what happens inside are restricted. However, Black injures Kazuto with suxamethonium chloride. The MOD recovers Kazuto and places him back into the STL to preserve his mind while attempts are made to save him. Meanwhile, it is revealed that UnderWorld was created as part of an experiment to create artificial intelligence that could be used for military purposes.\n\nReki Kawahara wrote the first volume in 2002 as a competition entry for ASCII Media Works' , but refrained from submitting it as he had exceeded the page limit; he instead published it as a web novel under the pseudonym Fumio Kunori. Over time, he added three further episodes and several short stories. In 2008, he participated in the competition again by writing \"Accel World\", this time winning the Grand Prize. Aside from \"Accel World\", he was requested to get his earlier work, \"Sword Art Online\", published by ASCII Media Works. He agreed and withdrew his web novel versions.\n\nFor the character protagonist Kirito, Kawahara was asked if Kirito's personality and character were based on his own; he answered that he usually does not put aspects of himself into his characters, and jokingly remarked: \"but if I had to say there was a point of similarity between Kirito and myself, it is the fact that neither of us are good at forming parties. We [both] tend to play solo in these games a lot.\" He also noted that the female characters in the story were not based on anyone he knew in the real world, stating: \"I don't usually make a character, setting, or anything before I start writing. As I write the story, the girls become what they are now. So, somehow, I don’t know exactly, but somehow, my subliminal idea or some hidden emotion creates the characters to be strong and capable.\" He added that he wrote the series to demonstrate that he views online gaming not as a social ill or escape from real life, but rather decided to show games in a more positive light in his light novels. He noted that \"the character of Asuna I might have created a little too perfectly for \"Sword Art Online\"\".\n\nAfter Kawahara's request for \"Sword Art Online\" to be published was approved, he started working with illustrator abec on the light novel series. The first volume was published in print on April 10, 2009, and 20 volumes have been published as of September 8, 2017. The first eight volumes of the light novel series told the story arcs for \"Sword Art Online\", \"Alfheim Online\", and \"Gun Gale Online\". The Alicization story arc was covered by volumes 9 through 18, while volumes 19 and 20 told a side story called Moon Cradle. Kawahara plans on writing \"one more big arc\" called \"Sword Art Online: Unital Ring\" that will go \"back to the real world.\" The Unital Ring story arc will begin in volume 21, which is scheduled to be released in Japan on December 7, 2018.\n\nKawahara also writes the \"Sword Art Online: Progressive\" series, which covers Kirito's adventures on the first few floors of Aincrad. The first volume of \"Progressive\" was released on October 10, 2012, and four volumes have been released as of December 10, 2015. The first volume of a light novel series based on \"Sword Art Online\" titled \"Sword Art Online Alternative Gun Gale Online\", written by Keiichi Sigsawa with illustrations by Kouhaku Kuroboshi, was published by ASCII Media Works on December 10, 2014. An original 100-page prequel novel to \"\" written by Kawahara, titled \"Hopeful Chant\", was released to people who watched the film in Japan during March 4–10, 2017.\n\nAt their Japan Expo USA panel, Yen Press announced the rights to publish the light novels; the first volume was released on April 22, 2014. Yen Press later announced their license of the \"Sword Art Online: Progressive\" series, which is scheduled for release in 2015. The novels are also published in China, Taiwan, South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam, with future plans for publications in France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Switzerland and others.\n\nThere are a number of \"dōjinshi\" (fan works) written by Kawahara under the pseudonym Fumio Kunori, titled . An 80-page assemblage of some of the \"Material Edition\" volumes was published on February 13, 2011; the latest release is \"Material Edition\" volume 25 on November 23, 2017. The author has also created some other \"dōjinshi\" including \"Lisbeth Edition\", \"Silica Edition\" and \"Pina Edition\" under cooperation with Kurusu Tatsuya from ponz.info. It is reported that these \"dōjinshi\" gain traction from the involvement of the original author in its creation process, as well as from supplying more details on characters from the original work.\n\nThere are ten manga adaptations of the series, all written by Reki Kawahara and published by ASCII Media Works. , illustrated by Tamako Nakamura, was serialized in \"Dengeki Bunko Magazine\" between the September 2010 and May 2012 issues. Two \"tankōbon\" volumes of \"Aincrad\" were released on September 27, 2012. A comedy four-panel manga, titled and illustrated by Jūsei Minami, began serialization in the September 2010 issue of \"Dengeki Bunko Magazine\". The first volume of \"Sword Art Online.\" was released on September 27, 2012. A third manga, titled and illustrated by Hazuki Tsubasa, began serialization in the May 2012 issue of \"Dengeki Bunko Magazine\". The first volume of \"Fairy Dance\" was released on October 27, 2012; the third volume was released on June 27, 2014. The \"Aincrad\" and \"Fairy Dance\" manga have been acquired for release in North America by Yen Press. The first volume of \"Aincrad\" was published on March 25, 2014.\n\nA spin-off manga starring Lisbeth, Silica, and Leafa, titled and illustrated by Neko Nekobyō, began serialization in the July 2013 issue of \"Dengeki Bunko Magazine\". \"Girls Ops\" was licensed by Yen Press in November 2014, the first volume of which was released on May 19, 2015. A manga adaption of \"Sword Art Online: Progressive\", illustrated by Kiseki Himura, began serialization in the August 2013 issue of \"Dengeki G's Magazine\". The manga ended serialization in the magazine's May 2014 issue and was transferred to \"Dengeki G's Comic\" starting with the June 2014 issue. The \"Progressive\" manga adaption has been licensed by Yen Press, with the first two volumes released in January and April 2015, respectively.\n\nA sixth manga, titled \"Sword Art Online: Phantom Bullet\" and illustrated by Kōtarō Yamada, had its first chapter serialized in the May 2014 issue of \"Dengeki Bunko Magazine\", with following chapters being digitally serialized on Kadokawa's Comic Walker website. A seventh manga, titled \"Sword Art Online: Calibur\" and illustrated by Shii Kiya, was serialized in \"Dengeki G's Comic\" between the September 2014 and July 2015 issues. A single compilation volume was released on August 10, 2015. An eighth manga, titled \"Sword Art Online: Mother's Rosario\" and also by Tsubasa, is based on the seventh volume of the novel series and began serialization in the July 2014 issue of \"Dengeki Bunko Magazine\". A ninth manga, an adaptation of \"Sword Art Online Alternative Gun Gale Online\", began serialization in the November 2015 issue of \"Dengeki Maoh\".\n\nA tenth manga, titled \"Sword Art Online: Project Alicization\" and illustrated by Kōtarō Yamada, based on the Alicization arc of the light novel series, began serialization in the September 2016 issue of \"Dengeki Bunko Magazine\".\n\nAn anime adaptation of \"Sword Art Online\" was announced at Dengeki Bunko Autumn Festival 2011, along with Reki Kawahara's other light novel series, \"Accel World\". The anime is produced by Aniplex and Genco, animated by A-1 Pictures and directed by Tomohiko Ito with music by Yuki Kajiura. The anime aired on Tokyo MX, tvk, TV Saitama, TV Aichi, RKB, HBC and MBS between July 7 and December 22, 2012, and on AT-X, Chiba TV and BS11 at later dates. The series was also streamed on Crunchyroll and Hulu. The anime is adapted from the first four novels and parts of volume seven.\n\nThe anime has been licensed in North America by Aniplex of America and an English-language dub premiered on Adult Swim's Toonami from July 27, 2013 to February 15, 2014. The series was released by Aniplex of America in four DVD and Blu-ray sets, with special extras on the BD sets, between August 13 and November 19, 2013. Manga Entertainment released the first series on BD/DVD in the United Kingdom in December 2013, whilst Madman Entertainment released the series in Australia and the English-language version began airing on ABC3 on June 7, 2014. \"Sword Art Online\" has been available on Netflix in North America since March 15, 2014.\n\nA year-end special, titled \"Sword Art Online Extra Edition\", aired on December 31, 2013. The special recapped the previously aired anime series and included some new footage. \"Extra Edition\" was streamed worldwide a few hours after its airing in Japan. The two-hour-long special was available on Daisuki worldwide except for French-speaking areas, as well as China and Korea. Daisuki offered subtitles in various languages such as English, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, and German. English-speaking countries, Mexico, Central and South America could also watch the stream on Crunchyroll. \"Extra Edition\" was also simulcast in Korea on Aniplus cable channel and in China on the LeTV streaming website. French-speaking countries could watch on the Wakanim streaming website. The Blu-ray Disc and DVD of \"Extra Edition\" was released on April 23, 2014 in Japan. The limited edition included a Yui character song titled \"Heart Sweet Heart\" by Kanae Itō and an original side story written by Kawahara titled .\n\nAt the end of the special, the anime television series was confirmed for a second season, titled \"Sword Art Online II\", which premiered on July 5, 2014. The first 14 episodes of the second season is an adaptation of volumes five and six the light novels that cover the Phantom Bullet arc. Episodes 15 to 17 cover the Calibur arc from volume 8 of the novels, with episodes 18 to 24 covering volume 7 of the novels, the Mother's Rosario arc. Premiere screening events of the second season were held in the United States, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea and Japan before the television premiere between June 29 and July 4, 2014. At Katsucon, it was announced that the English dub of the second season would air on Toonami beginning March 28, 2015.\n\nAn animated film titled \"\", featuring an original story by Kawahara set after the events of \"Sword Art Online II\", premiered in Japan and Southeast Asia on February 18, 2017, and was released in the United States on March 9, 2017.\n\nThe third season of \"Sword Art Online\", titled \"Sword Art Online: Alicization\", and a spin-off anime, titled \"Sword Art Online Alternative Gun Gale Online\", were announced in 2017. \"Sword Art Online Alternative Gun Gale Online\", animated by 3Hz, premiered in April 2018. \"Sword Art Online: Alicization\" began airing on October 7, 2018, with a one-hour world premiere which aired in Japan, the United States, Australia, France, Germany, Russia and South Korea on September 15, 2018. It will air for four cours (around 50 episodes) and will adapt from the novel's ninth volume, \"Alicization Beginning\", to the eighteenth volume, \"Alicization Lasting\".\n\nYuki Kajiura composed the soundtrack for the \"Sword Art Online\" anime, which was later released in the limited edition of the anime's fourth and seventh Blu-ray and DVD volumes. The first volume of the second season's soundtrack was bundled with the limited edition of the season's third and seventh Blu-ray and DVD volumes.\n\nFor the first 14 episodes of season one, the opening theme song is \"Crossing Field\" by LiSA, and the ending theme song is by Haruka Tomatsu. From episode 15 onward, the opening theme is \"Innocence\" by Eir Aoi and the ending theme is \"Overfly\" by Luna Haruna. The main theme for \"Sword Art Online: Extra Edition\" is by Aoi.\n\nFor the second season, the first opening theme is \"Ignite\" by Aoi, and the first ending theme is \"Startear\" by Haruna. The second opening theme is \"Courage\" by Tomatsu, and the second ending theme is \"No More Time Machine\" by LiSA, with the third ending theme being , also by LiSA. The song \"Catch the Moment\" by LiSA is used as the theme song to \"Sword Art Online: Ordinal Scale\".\n\nFor the third season, the first opening theme is \"Adamas\" by LiSA, and the first ending theme is by Aoi.\n\nA number of character songs were included in the Blu-ray and DVD volume releases of the anime. These were collected into two compilation albums: \"Sword Art Online Song Collection\", which included character songs released in the season one volumes, was released on August 27, 2014, while \"Sword Art Online Song Collection II\", which included character songs released in the season two volumes, was released on March 22, 2017.\n\nA stage event at the Dengeki Bunko Autumn Festival 2011 revealed that Reki Kawahara's light novels would get video game adaptations. The first \"Sword Art Online\" adaptation, titled , was developed by Namco Bandai Games for the PlayStation Portable. The game follows an alternate storyline, in which a glitch causes Kirito and the other players to remain in Sword Art Online despite defeating Heathcliff, and players from other VMMORPGs such as Leafa and Sinon get sucked into the game themselves. The game was released in both regular and limited edition box sets on March 14, 2013.\n\n\"\" is a PlayStation Vita game released in Japan on April 24, 2014. \"Sword Art Online: Hollow Fragment\" takes place in the same alternative storyline as \"Sword Art Online: Infinity Moment\", and it includes all content of \"Floor Clearing\" from that previous game with the addition of new unexplored \"Hollow Area\" of Aincrad. The protagonist Kirito will cross swords with a mysterious player who would become one of the key characters in the game. The game sold 145,029 physical retail copies within the first week of release in Japan, topping the Japanese software sales charts for that particular week. The game had also been released in Taiwan by Namco Bandai Games Taiwan with Chinese and English subtitles. A digital-only North American, European and Australian release was released in August 2014.\n\nA third video game developed by Artdink and titled \"\" was released in Japan on March 26, 2015 on the PlayStation 3 and Vita platforms, with an English version being released in Asia. The game's producer revealed in October 2014 that the game is an open-world action RPG featuring an original storyline, set within Alfheim Online, where characters are able to fly. The game sold 139,298 physical retail copies on the PlayStation Vita in addition to another 55,090 units on the PlayStation 3 within its first week of release in Japan, ranking second and sixth place respectively within the Japanese software sales charts for that particular week, narrowly behind \"Bloodborne\" taking the top spot.\n\nA fourth game titled \"\" was released in Japan for the PS4, Vita, and Windows on October 27, 2016 and worldwide on November 8, 2016 for the PS4 and Vita.\n\nA social network game called \"Sword Art Online: End World\" was released for Japanese feature phones and smartphones on February 28, 2013 with more than 1 million registered users. Another freemium game for Android and iOS titled \"\" launched in 2014, and over 3,000,000 users have downloaded the game. Another game called \"Sword Art Online: Progress Link\" designed for the Mobage browser game platform on smartphones was released on February 10, 2015. In 2016, Bandai Namco released \"Sword Art Online: Memory Defrag\" for Android and iOS.\n\nKirito, Asuna, Leafa, Yuuki and \"SAO Alternative: Gun Gale Online\" protagonist LLENN appear in \"\", a fighting game by Sega featuring various characters from works published under the \"Dengeki Bunko\" imprint. A browser game titled \"Sword Art Quest\" and its sequel smartphone game, \"Sword Art Quest II\" provide challenges to users to upgrade their characters to receive rewards. There is also a paid Android game titled \"SAO -Log Out-\" that users can download and play with characters from the series and obtain wallpapers from it.\n\nA virtual reality massive multiplayer online game was in development by Kadokawa and IBM Japan, but was only a demo and will not be released as a full game. An action role-playing game titled \"Accel World VS Sword Art Online: Millennium Twilight\" was announced in October 2016. The game is a crossover with \"Accel World\", developed by Bandai Namco Entertainment for PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and Windows via Steam, and was released to western audiences on July 7, 2017.\n\n\"Sword Art Online: Memory Defrag\", launched by Bandai Namco Entertainment, was released outside of Japan on January 24, 2017. This RPG is available on iOS and Android devices. Featuring content from the anime series, \"Ordinal Scale\", and some original shorts written for event characters, players are allowed to play solo and progress through the story, or join up with others online to farm special items, equipment, and materials. Common events include ranked challenges against other players, floor clearing, character introductions and seasonal events. Players have the choice of spending real money to speed-up their progress.\n\nA game based in \"Gun Gale Online\", \"\", was released for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows on February 23, 2018.\n\nBandai Namco Entertainment released the \"Sword Art Online VR: Lovely Honey Days\" mobile game for iOS and Android devices in Japan. The game's first episode is free-to-play, while the second episode and so on can be purchased as additional content. Bandai Namco has announced \"\", an exploration action RPG that supports up to three players in online co-op and it is the first arcade game in the \"Sword Art Online\" series. It will launch in Japanese arcades in spring 2019.\n\n\"Sword Art Online\" is a planned American live-action television adaptation of \"Sword Art Online\". Skydance Television announced on August 2, 2016, that they had acquired the global rights to produce a live-action television adaptation of Reki Kawahara's \"Sword Art Online\" light novel series. Laeta Kalogridis has been attached to write a script for the pilot, and will also serve as executive producer for the series alongside Skydance CEO David Ellison, Dana Goldberg, and Marcy Ross. Skydance has stated their intent to \"fast-track\" the launch of the series, along with plans to follow the TV series with the release of a \"Sword Art Online\" virtual reality experience. In February 2018, it was reported that the live-action series had been sold to Netflix.\n\nAccording to Oricon, \"Sword Art Online\" was the top selling light novel series of 2012, with eight volumes figuring among the top selling light novels. It was ranked first in the 2012 and 2013 \"Kono Light Novel ga Sugoi!\" rankings, as well as top ten placement in 2011, 2014 and 2015. It was also the second best selling light novel series for the first half of 2016 in Japan, selling 489,374 copies. \"Sword Art Online: Progressive\" sold 321,535 copies in the same time period. As of 2017, the series has an estimated 20 million copies in print worldwide.\n\nRichard Eisenbeis of Kotaku hails \"Sword Art Online\" as the smartest series in recent years, praising its deep insight on the psychological aspects of virtual reality on the human psyche, its sociological views on creating a realistic economy and society in a massively multiplayer online game setting, and the writing staff's ability to juggle a wide variety of genres within the series. Eisenbeis particularly noted how the romance between Kirito and Asuna is explored bringing \"definition to exactly what love is like in a virtual world.\" However, at the time of this preliminary review, he had only watched the first 12 episodes of the series. He has since gone on to review the second half of the series, lauding its excellent use of plot twists and praising its well written and believable villain. However, he felt that some of the initial positive aspects of the series were lost in the second half, such as the focus on psychological repercussions and social interactions that could be realistically seen in an online game. Criticism was also levied on the aspect of turning Asuna into a damsel in distress, stating that a female lead as strong as her was \"reduced to nothing but the quest item the male lead is hunting for.\" Eisenbeis closes his review of the series by stating in regards to the two halves, \"Both, however, are enjoyable for what they are.\"\n\nRebecca Silverman of Anime News Network has criticized the series as having pacing problems, logical gaps, and \"sloppy writing\". Theron Martin of Anime News Network criticized the story as struggling \"to achieve and maintain the level of gravitas that life-or-death danger should have\", while calling it unwilling to commit to Kirito's \"lone wolf\" image. DeviceCritique explains that \"Sword Art Online\" influences the virtual reality market to grow, and references the Oculus Rift as a prime example of the starting point of virtual reality. It also praises \"Sword Art Online\" for exploring the psychological and social aspects of virtual reality gaming. Adam Facey of \"The Muse,\" criticized the series as being sexist and the female characters as being overly sexualized.\n\nKirito has a cameo appearance in episode 8 of the anime series \"Eromanga Sensei\", with Yoshitsugu Matsuoka reprising his role.\n\nSteven Spielberg's 2018 film \"Ready Player One\" contains a reference to \"Sword Art Online\". Ernest Cline, the writer of 2011 novel \"Ready Player One\", discussed \"Sword Art Online\" in an interview, noting how he met its writer Reki Kawahara at an event in Japan where they discussed how they independently developed similar ideas related to virtual reality.\n\nOn June 12, 2015, the Chinese Ministry of Culture listed \"Sword Art Online II\" among 38 anime and manga titles banned in China.\n\nIn September 2018, AbemaTV hosted an election for \"Sword Art Online\". The character that received the most retweets would be crowned the winner and become the focus of a smartphone wallpaper. According to the poll, Yuuki Konno had the most votes, with 2,243 points, followed by Shino Asada with 2,145 points and Asuna Yuuki with 1,345 points.\n\n"}
{"id": "12617345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12617345", "title": "Sympathetic character", "text": "Sympathetic character\n\nA sympathetic character is a fictional character in a story whom the writer expects the reader to identify with and care about, if not necessarily admire. Protagonists, almost by definition, fit into the category of a sympathetic character; so, however, do many supporting characters and even villains.\n\n"}
{"id": "47185391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47185391", "title": "Teacher quality", "text": "Teacher quality\n\nTeacher quality is said to be the most important factor influencing learner outcomes. The Education for All Goals set by UNESCO have been achieved by some countries but many millions of children remain out of school or with poor teachers.\n\nAccording to UNESCO and the OECD, developed and developing countries across the world are grappling unsuccessfully with the problem of providing up to date teacher education both Initial Professional Development and continuing professional development to a diverse and large workforce (450,000 in England, 1.3M in Pakistan in 2006).\n\nTeachers have varied backgrounds making the targeting of professional development programmes difficult. Some may have little or no teacher training, others may have doctorates in specialist subjects but no training in pedagogy – the science of teaching and learning. In other cases, teachers may be much more deeply knowledgeable having studied for their qualifications over four or more years. As well as varied backgrounds, teachers often work in remote areas.\nOrganisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD research across 20 countries (2009) confirms that improving the quality of teachers’ knowledge (see Lee Shulman’s definition) is the intervention most likely to bring about improvements in learning and educational outcomes.\n\nTo address this problem, the OECD calls for the: “creation of ‘knowledge-rich’, evidence-based education systems…in many countries, education is still far from being a knowledge industry in the sense that its own practices are not yet being transformed by knowledge about the efficacy of those practices.” (OECD, 2009, p. 3)\n\nBy way of contrast, the medical sector has established structures and processes worldwide addressing knowledge mobilisation. \nThe concept of Translational Research i.e. how research findings might apply in practice is much more developed in medicine than in the education sector.\n\nSystematic reviews and rapid evidence assessment methodology are also well developed and engage tens of thousands of medical practitioners worldwide via the Cochrane Collaboration and the associated Cochrane Library. The Campbell Collaboration is the educational equivalent.\n\nThe Clinical Pathway approach which appears well established in medicine as demonstrated by the Map of Medicine HealthGuides and National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) pathways is embryonic in education with the MESHGuides initiative.\nThe medical sector sets a standard for knowledge sharing that the education sector could aspire to.\n\nThe above examples from the medical sector use information technology to connect up experts across the world for the benefit of all. With respect to teachers having access to online resources, even those in areas with no electricity or internet can access the latest online knowledge with a simple set up using a compujector and generator backed up by central support uploading materials to the hard disk in the compujector.\n\nThe challenge is how to ensure knowledge about effective teaching in every subject, for every concept, for every type of learner is available to teachers at the time they need it.\n\nTeacher attrition rates are high in some locations e.g. 40% in the UK in 2015. In the UK, it was reported in 2015 that 40% of teachers leave in their first year. \nLack of professional development is cited by teachers leaving the profession as a major contributing factor. As the OECD suggests, more efficient knowledge management is suggested as a way to reduce losses to national economies due to pupil underperformance, teacher attrition and lack of continuing professional development to keep teachers up to date.\n"}
{"id": "32697943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32697943", "title": "The Flea (poem)", "text": "The Flea (poem)\n\n\"The Flea\" is an erotic metaphysical poem (first published posthumously in 1633) by John Donne (1572–1631). The exact date of its composition is unknown. The poem uses the conceit of a flea, which has sucked blood from the male speaker and his female lover, to serve as an extended metaphor for the relationship between them. The speaker tries to convince a lady to sleep with him, arguing that if their blood mingling in the flea is innocent, then sexual mingling would also be innocent. His argument hinges on the belief that bodily fluids mix during sexual intercourse. \n\nThe poem evokes the aphorism \"carpe diem\", which is Latin for \"seize the day\". Donne encourages the lady to focus on the present day and time versus saving herself for the afterlife. Donne is able to hint at the erotic without explicitly referring to sex, using images such as the flea that \"pamper'd swells\" with the blood of the lady (line 8). This evokes the idea of an erection. The speaker complains that \"This is more than we would do!\" (line 9) The speaker claims it would be \"sacrilege\" to kill the flea. He holds the flea up in the second stanza as \"our marriage bed\" and \"our marriage temple,\" begging for the lady to spare its innocent life (line 13). He argues that by killing the flea, she would be killing herself, himself, and the flea itself, \"Three crimes in killing three\" (line 18). The lady, in the third stanza, kills the flea, presumably rejecting the speaker's advances. He then claims she will lose no more honor when she decides to sleep with him than she did when she killed the flea.\n"}
{"id": "44810823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44810823", "title": "The Fountain of Life (painting)", "text": "The Fountain of Life (painting)\n\nThe Fountain of Life or The Fountain of Grace and the Triumph of the Church over the Synagogue are names given to an oil on panel painting completed c 1432. For most of its history the painting has been in Spain, where it is currently features in a special exhibition in the Museo del Prado, Madrid. Stylistically and thematically, the painting is related to the work of Jan van Eyck, but it is unsigned and there have been competing theories as to whether it is by van Eyck himself.\n\nThe subject matter of the painting would have been of particular interest in 15th century Spain which had the world´s largest Jewish community.\nThere has been recent speculation that it was painted by van Eyck himself, possibly while he was on a diplomatic mission to the Iberian peninsula. However, technical analysis suggests that it was painted in the Netherlands, albeit possibly in response to a commission from Spain, in van Eyck's workshop. \n\n\"The Fountain of Life\" closely resembles passages in the 1432 \"Ghent Altarpiece\" by Jan and his brother Hubert. Although there is consensus among specialists that it is the product of a workshop, some attribute \"The Fountain of Life\" to a youthful Jan, his brother Hubert, or much later, and less likely, Petrus Christus.\n\nThe painting is structured into three levels. The top terrace shows a Deësis of God the Son, the Virgin Mary and St. John the Evangelist. The middle section shows four groups of angels, while the lower level has two groups of holy men; with Christians led by a Pope and princes to the right, and Jews led by blindfolded high priests to the left. These two groups represent true believers and non true believers in Christ as the messiah respectively. \nThe Fountain of Life is a symbol referring to baptism and or eucharist. The water that flows from the top to the lower terrace, is intended as a symbol of \"the Grace that illuminates the Triumphant Church and blinds the Synagogue\".\n\nThe painting is organised into three horizontal levels or planes, each showing a terrace on which the figures are positioned.\n\nThe top level shows a Deësis scene, with God the Father in the center, flanked by the Virgin Mary and St. John the Evangelist. This passage closely resembles a similar scene in the \"Ghent Altarpiece\". All three figures are seated in front of hanging oriental style carpets.\nGod holds a staff in his right hand, and holds up his left up in the act of blessing. He is enthroned within a tall, elaborate Gothic architectural setting. His throne contains symbols of the Evangelists, while the baldachin around and above him is decorated with illusionistic painted reliefs of Old Testament prophets intended to look like sculptures. The lamb sits on a pedestal before God, on a structure through which the water of grace, symbolising the rite of baptism, flows before reaching the fountain of life in the lowest terrace.\n\nMary is seated and reading a red book, probably a book of hours. She wears a blue gown, the folds and cloth of which are closely detailed. She has blond hair which is unbranded and falls over her shoulders. In contrast to her depiction in the \"Ghent Altarpiece\", here her dress is plain, lacks any embroidery or gilded lining, while her book is not girdled. John is dressed in a green robe, also has blond hair and sits writing in a holy book.\n\nThe middle level shows two groups of musical angels dressed in white robes and sitting on grass. Choirs of singing angels are positioned in towers on either side of them. This section is again similar to a panel in the \"Ghent Altarpiece\". The instruments include a harp, a type of viol and a lute.\n\nThe lower section represents the triumph of the Church over the Jewish Synagogue, through the depiction of the Christians as collect as almost serene, and the Jews as chaotic, blinded and resistant. The fountain of life is positioned in the center, with a group of Christians to its left, including a Pope (possibly Martin V), members of his service, an emperor and various princes.\nTo the right is a grouping of \"despairing Jews\" who seem to be fleeing from the scene. The figure on the far left of this group is a high priest who has been blindfolded, symbolising his blinding to the true significance of Jesus. A rabbi in the immediate foreground holds a Torah scroll with, according to historian Norman Roth, \"gibberish Hebrew writing\", while another \"Jew shows a scroll to a figure, apparently Christian, who tears his clothing at the sight\". In contrast to the Christians, the Jews do not wear grand, ceremonious hats or badges.\n\nThey carry a variety of banners, scrolls and parchments, which contains texts that while illegible, can be recognised as mostly written in Hebrew, with some lettering that is almost nonsensical. The texts are arranged across the passage in a haphazard way, reflecting the disorder of the figures, and more generally within the Synagogue. This placement must be contrasted with those on the two level, where the books held by Mary and John rest stably on their laps.\n\nThe painting's first documentary record is in the \"Libro becerro\" (vellum acquisitions register) of the Monastery of the Parral outside Segovia, which recorded it as the gift of King Henry IV of Castile in 1454. That year marked the beginning of Henry's reign, as well as a building programme at the monastery. He may have inherited the painting from his father John II.\n\nIt was secured to the wall of the vestry, being gradually painted into the wall as the vestry was redecorated down the centuries, until it was removed in 1838 as part of the secularisation of the monasteries: parts of the border were lost in the removal but the painting is generally in good condition. The painting was moved to the Trinidade monastery opposite the Atocha station in Madrid, used as a general store for the religious wealth collected.\n\nThe painting was photographed in 1859 by Jean Laurent. Its first formal attribution was in 1870 when it was transferred to the Prado, dating it as 1454 on the strength of the entry: however, it was stylistically anachronistic, an accurate dating should have read \"before 1454\", a mistake which has caused no end of confusion in the 130 years following as scholars attempted to identify a non-existent atelier or pupil/follower of van Eyck's. Following a dendrochronological study undertaken by the Prado in the late 1990s, which dated the felling of the wood to 1418, it was dated to \"after 1428\" after allowing a standard ten years for seasoning: the Prado currently attributes it to c1432. During the time in the Parral, it became highly influential and was widely copied, one copy was later housed in Palencia Cathedral. Today it is in the collection of the Museo del Prado, Madrid. The Prado version was the star of an exhibition of its reassessments in 2003, and it was previously the subject of the 1957 Utrecht doctoral thesis of Josua Bruyn, who went on to become Professor of the History of Art at Amsterdam and establish the Rembrandt Foundation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1302032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1302032", "title": "The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show", "text": "The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show\n\nThe George Burns and Gracie Allen Show, sometimes called The Burns and Allen Show, is a half-hour television series broadcast from 1950 to 1958 on CBS. It stars George Burns and Gracie Allen, one of the most enduring acts in entertainment history. Burns and Allen were headliners in vaudeville in the 1920s, and radio stars in the 1930s and 1940s. Their situation comedy TV series received Emmy Award nominations throughout its eight-year run.\n\nA half-hour TV series broadcast October 12, 1950 – September 22, 1958, on CBS, \"The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show\" was initially staged live and broadcast every other Thursday at 8 pm ET. In fall 1952, it became a weekly series filmed on the West Coast. From March 1953 through September 1958, \"The Burns and Allen Show\" aired Mondays at 8 pm ET.\n\nThe show was an immediate success. Six episodes were produced live from the Mansfield Theatre in New York, with the stage set as the Burns's living room. The show relocated to the CBS Columbia Square facilities in Hollywood beginning with the seventh episode.\n\nEver the businessman, Burns realized it would be more efficient to do the series on film; the half-hour episodes could then be syndicated. From that point on, the show was filmed at General Service Studios without a live audience present; however, each installment was screened before an audience to provide live responses prior to the episodes being broadcast. With 291 episodes, the show had a long network run through 1958 and continued in syndicated reruns for years.\n\nThe sets were designed to look like the couple's real-life residence. An establishing shot of the actual house on Maple Drive in Beverly Hills, California, was often used. Although extensively remodeled, that house still exists today—including the study over the garage where George would \"escape\" from Gracie's illogical logic. Burns lived in the house until his death in 1996, at the age of 100.\n\nOne running gag of the TV show involved a closet full of hats belonging to various visitors to the Burns household, who would slip out the door unnoticed and leave their hats behind rather than face another round with Gracie. The format had George watching all the action (standing outside the proscenium arch in early live episodes; watching the show on TV in his study towards the end of the series) and breaking the fourth wall by commenting upon it to the viewers. Another running gag was George's weekly \"firing\" of announcer Harry Von Zell after he turned up aiding, abetting, or otherwise not stopping the mayhem prompted by Gracie's illogical logic.\n\nDuring the course of the eight-year run, the TV show had remarkable consistency in its cast and crew. The episodes were produced and directed by Ralph Levy (1950–53); Frederick de Cordova, later director of NBC's \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" (1953–56); and Rod Amateau (1956–58). The original writing staff consisted of Sid Dorfman, Harvey Helm, Paul Henning, and William Burns (George's brother). Later writers included Nate Monaster, Jesse Goldstein, Norman Paul, and Keith Fowler. The associate producer was Al Simon, the director of photography was Philip Tannura, A.S.C., and the editor was Larry Heath. The show's primary sponsor was Carnation Evaporated Milk, later alternating with B.F. Goodrich (1952–55, 1956–57), and General Mills, for Betty Crocker (1955–56, 1957–58).\n\nBea Benaderet carried over from the \"Burns and Allen\" radio show, portraying neighbor Blanche Morton, but over the course of the series, four different actors played her husband. The character's first name was \"Harry\", the same first name as the real-life announcer Harry Von Zell, requiring the writers to craft dialogue that would distinguish the two characters' names. Blanche's husband Harry Morton was first portrayed by Hal March (October–December 1950), then John Brown (January–June 1951), and after that, Fred Clark, until 1953 and Larry Keating until 1958. In one episode, \"Morton Buys Iron Deer/Gracie Thinks George Needs Glasses\", George walks on-stage and freezes the scene just before Harry's entrance and explains that Clark has left the show to perform on Broadway. He introduces Larry Keating, who enters, and then calls over Bea Benaderet to introduce the two saying, \"This is Larry Keating and he is going to be your husband now\". The pair greet and chat briefly, complimenting each other on their previous work. George remarks that if they are going to be so nice to each other, no one will believe they are married. Burns then gives a cue, Blanche resumes her position, and the scene continues where it stopped as if nothing had happened. The new Harry enters and Blanche hits him in the head with a catalog for spending $200 to buy an iron deer.\n\nAlso appearing in the TV series were Burns and Allen's two children. Ronnie, adopted in 1935, and Sandra, adopted the year before, first appeared in the third-season episode, \"Uncle Clyde Comes to Visit\" (January 1, 1953), playing themselves. The teenagers are in the Burns living room, threading a 16 mm projector with that night's episode. In voiceover, George introduces them, and tells the audience that they have been away at school and that is why we have not met them before. Ronnie made a guest appearance on the episode, \"Gracie Gives Wedding in Payment of a Favor\" (October 18, 1954), playing a character named Jim Goodwin, and was introduced to the audience at the episode's conclusion. Ronnie joined the regular cast October 10, 1955, playing himself, but cast as a young drama student who tended to look askance at his parents' comedy style. Their daughter, Sandra, declined becoming a regular member of the cast, although she appeared in a few episodes as a classmate of Ronnie. In one episode, Ronnie's drama class puts on a vaudeville show to raise funds for the school. Gracie hosts the show while Ronnie and Sandy deliver an impersonation of their famous parents along with one of their classic routines. Since Ronnie played himself, Gracie closed the segment with a wisecrack: \"The boy was produced by Burns and Allen.\"\n\nStarting in the fall of 1955, Burns and Allen often reappeared after the end of the episode, before a curtain decorated with the names and locations of the various theaters where they headlined in their vaudeville days. They would perform one of their signature \"double routines\", often discussing one of Gracie's fictional relatives (including \"Death Valley Allen\" the prospector, \"Florence Allen\" the nurse, \"Casey Allen\" the railroad man). Burns always ended the show with, \"Say goodnight, Gracie\", to which Allen simply replied, \"Goodnight.\" She never said, \"Goodnight, Gracie\", as legend has it. Burns was once asked this question and said it would have been a funny line. Asked why he did not do it, Burns replied, \"Incredibly enough, no one ever thought of it.\"\n\nIn March 1953, \"The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show\" joined \"I Love Lucy\" as part of the CBS Monday-night primetime lineup. As a result, the show entered the top 30 television programs in the Nielsen ratings ranking at number 20. For the 1954–1955 season, it ranked number 26, and for both the 1955–56 and 1956–57 seasons it was number 28.\n\nWith \"I Love Lucy\" ending its six-year run on CBS in the spring of 1957, the television network wanted to renew the Burns and Allen series, but by this time, Allen had grown tired of performing. Nevertheless, Burns committed both of them for another year, which would be their eighth—and last—on television.\n\nAllen announced her retirement on February 17, 1958, to be effective at the end of the current season.\n\nBurns and Allen filmed their last show on June 4, 1958. The filming was an emotional experience, although nothing was said about it being Allen's last performance. At the wrap party, Allen took a token sip of champagne from a paper cup, hugged her friend and co-star Bea Benaderet, and said \"Okay, that's it.\" After a brief last look around the set, she said, \"And thank you very much, everyone.\"\n\n\"She deserved a rest,\" Burns said when Allen devoted herself to gardening and being a housewife:She had been working all her life, and her lines were the toughest in the world to do. They didn't make sense, so she had to memorize every word. It took a real actress. Every spare moment—in bed, under the hair dryer—had to be spent in learning lines. Do you wonder that she's happy to be rid of it?\n\nBurns attempted to continue the show with the same supporting cast but without Allen. \"The George Burns Show\" lasted one season (October 21, 1958 – April 14, 1959) on NBC.\n\nFollowing a mild heart attack in the 1950s, Allen suffered a series of angina episodes over a number of years. She had a major heart attack in 1961. She lived a slower but comfortable retirement for another three years, often appearing in public with her husband, but never performing. Gracie Allen died August 27, 1964, as Burns was underway with his short-lived ABC sitcom, \"Wendy and Me\", with Connie Stevens and a cast including Ron Harper, James T. Callahan, and J. Pat O'Malley. All the TV shows were produced under the banner of McCadden Productions, a company run by George Burns which he named after the street on which his brother William lived. McCadden also produced the iconic TV show, \"Mister Ed\". The McCadden catalog is owned by Sony Pictures Television.\n\n\"The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show\" received the following Primetime Emmy Award nominations:\n\nIn 1997, the 1954 episode, \"Columbia Pictures Doing Burns and Allen Story\", was ranked #56 on TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of All-Time.\n\nThe kinescope recordings of the live telecasts from the 1950–1952 seasons of \"The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show\" are thought to be in the public domain; they are available on \"dollar DVD\" collections and have rerun as part of America One's public domain sitcom rotation and on public television stations.\n\nA select number of episodes were released on VHS by Columbia TriStar Home Video.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39357869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39357869", "title": "The Goldbergs (2013 TV series)", "text": "The Goldbergs (2013 TV series)\n\nThe Goldbergs is an American television period sitcom that premiered on September 24, 2013, on ABC. The series was created by Adam F. Goldberg and stars Wendi McLendon-Covey, Jeff Garlin, Sean Giambrone, Troy Gentile, Hayley Orrantia, and George Segal. The show is produced by Adam F Goldberg, Seth Gordon, and Doug Robinson. It is based on Goldberg's childhood and family in the 1980s, complete with a childhood version of himself. In May 2017, ABC renewed the series for a fifth and sixth season. The sixth season premiered on September 26, 2018.\n\n\"The Goldbergs\" is set in the 1980s in Jenkintown, Pennsylvania. The show is loosely based on the showrunner's childhood, during which he videotaped events, many of which are reenacted throughout the program. It shows the reality of the 1980s through a young boy's eyes.\n\nThe series stars Jeff Garlin as patriarch Murray and Wendi McLendon-Covey as matriarch Beverly. Their two older children are Erica (Hayley Orrantia) and Barry (Troy Gentile). The youngest child, Adam (Sean Giambrone), documents his family life with his video camera. Beverly's father, Albert \"Pops\" Solomon (George Segal), is frequently around to provide advice or to help out his grandchildren (often behind his daughter's back).\n\nThe present-day \"Adult Adam\" (Patton Oswalt) narrates every episode as taking place in \"1980-something\".\n\nMany references to real-life Philadelphia-area businesses are made, including the Wawa Inc. convenience store chain, Gimbel's department store, Willow Grove Park Mall, and Kremp's Florist of Willow Grove, Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe project originally received a script commitment from Fox in August 2011. After Adam Goldberg's previous show, \"Breaking In\", was canceled, he did not want to wait for another pilot season to arrive and moved it to ABC, who agreed to immediately produce it. On January 11, 2013, Wendi McLendon-Covey was cast as the pilot's lead; later, Jeff Garlin and George Segal joined the cast.\n\nThe pilot episode was directed by Seth Gordon. On May 10, 2013, ABC picked up the show to series to air in the 2013–14 American television season. It was later picked up for a full season order on November 1, 2013. The program is filmed on a series of stages at Sony Pictures Studios.\n\nThe show's theme song, \"Rewind,\" was written at Goldberg's request by I Fight Dragons, his favorite band, specifically for the show. A soundtrack, featuring songs performed on the show by the cast members, was released on December 6, 2017.\n\n\"The Goldbergs\" first season received mixed reviews, averaging a score of 52% on Metacritic based on reviews from 26 critics.\n\nTim Goodman of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" called it \"one of the rare freshman comedies to deliver\", giving credit to the show's \"outstanding writing\" and \"strong cast\". David Wiegand of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" wrote, \"you'll immediately like everyone in the family and the jokes derive from credible situations\".\n\nHank Stuever of \"The Washington Post\" said the show was \"obnoxiously loud\". David Hinckley of \"The New York Daily News\" said the show is \"just awful\". Tierney Bricker of \"E! News\" gave a more positive review, saying that the show is \"like \"Modern Family\" mixed with \"A Christmas Story\"\".\n\n\"The Goldbergs\" was included in TV Guides 2013 Top Twenty \"Best Shows of the Year\", along with \"The Hollywood Reporter\" and \"Today\". In addition, SpoilerTV awarded The Goldbergs with the honor of Best Comedy of 2013–2014.\n\nThe second season had a Rotten Tomatoes score of 100% fresh with five reviews, and there were many calls from both critics and the public to renew the show for a third season. The show continued to be well received, with \"Entertainment Weekly\" calling the season two premiere \"the best of any family comedy on TV in the way it eschews dysfunction for its more appropriate, real-world term: love\".\n\nAfter the series was renewed for season 3, ABC network chief Paul Lee stated that both he and ABC believed that the show will be around for \"a long time\".\n\n\"The Goldbergs\" originally premiered on ABC on 24 September 2013. The pilot was made available on Hulu and ABC.com before it premiered on television.\n\nIn Australia, the show airs on the Seven Network. It has been broadcast in the United Kingdom on E4 since 20 April 2015, in Ireland on RTÉ2 since 19 October 2015 and in Turkey on DiziSmart since 2015. In France, the series began broadcasting since 17 October 2015 on Comedie+.\n\nThe show has been broadcasting on Neox TV channel in Spain since .\nIn India, the series is aired on Star World.\nIn Germany, the series is aired on the Disney Channel since February 16, 2016. In Portugal, the series is aired on Fox Comedy, while in Italy on Italia Uno, Mediaset.\n\nThe show went into syndication in September 2017 and began airing on local stations on September 11, Nick at Nite on September 18, and Pop on September 24.\n\nIn November 2016, it was first reported that ABC was developing a spin-off that would centre around recurring character Rick Mellor, played by Bryan Callen. On January 10, 2017, Wendi McClendon-Covey's character was reported as appearing in the script in a guest appearance. The script was ordered to pilot on February 2, 2017.\n\nOn March 16, 2017, it was confirmed that Nia Long had been cast as the female lead in the role of Lucy Winston. At the same time it was confirmed that Tim Meadows would reprise his recurring role from \"The Goldbergs\" as Andre Glascott. Jay Chandrasekhar was also confirmed to direct.\n\nOn May 17, 2017, ABC passed on the spin-off, despite it reportedly testing very well - going as far to test better than the pilot of the original series. At the same time, Adam F. Goldberg revealed the title of the failed spin-off - \"Schooled\".\n\nOn January 8, 2018, it was announced that the pilot would air as a special episode of \"The Goldbergs\" on January 24, 2018, under the episode title \"The Goldbergs: 1990-Something\". Along with Nia Long as Lucy Winston and Tim Meadows as teacher-turned-principal Andre Glascott (who is also revealed to be Lucy's brother), the pilot also starred Rachel Crow as Lucy's rebellious teenage daughter Felicia, and Summer Parker as Felicia's bubbly younger sister Gigi, with Octavia Spencer narrating as the present-day Felicia.\n\nAfter the pilot aired, Goldberg had expressed hope that the airing would prompt discussions with ABC that could lead to the series being picked up for the 2018–19 TV season. Three months later, on April 16, 2018, it was announced that ABC had officially picked up the spin-off, \"Schooled\", for a 13-episode season slated to air in 2019. It was also announced that AJ Michalka would reprise her role as Lainey Lewis from \"The Goldbergs\" in the new show, but Nia Long will not return to the spin-off due to being a regular cast member on the CBS drama series \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "958971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=958971", "title": "Unjust enrichment", "text": "Unjust enrichment\n\nIn contract law, unjust enrichment occurs when one person is enriched at the expense of another in circumstances that the law sees as unjust. Where an individual is unjustly enriched, the law imposes an obligation upon the recipient to make restitution, subject to defences such as change of position. Liability for an unjust (or unjustified) enrichment arises irrespective of wrongdoing on the part of the recipient. The concept of unjust enrichment can be traced to Roman law and the maxim that \"no one should be benefited at another's expense\": \"nemo locupletari potest aliena iactura\" or \"nemo locupletari debet cum aliena iactura\".\n\nThe law of unjust enrichment is closely related to, but not co-extensive with, the law of restitution. The law of restitution is the law of gain-based recovery. It is wider than the law of unjust enrichment. Restitution for unjust enrichment is a subset of the law of restitution in the same way that compensation for breach of contract is a subset of the law relating to compensation.\n\nCases of unjust (or unjustified) enrichment can be examined in the following way:\n\nThese questions are a familiar part of the modern English law of unjust enrichment, having been popularised by the writing of Professor Peter Birks and expressly endorsed by English courts. The framework provides a useful taxonomical function in Australian law, though the concept of unjust enrichment has been subject to inconsistent treatment by Australian courts, as discussed below. Stated at this level of abstraction, the framework is a useful grounding for comparative study between common law and civil law jurisdictions.\n\nIn systems of law derived from the English common law, the historical core of the law of unjust enrichment lies in quasi-contract. These were common law (as distinct from equitable) claims giving rise to a personal liability to pay the money value of a benefit received from another. Legal scholars from Oxford, Cambridge and Harvard at the turn of the 20th century began to rationalise these disparate actions into a coherent body of law. The principle said to underlie these actions was eventually recognized as unjust enrichment. Subsequent scholarship has sought to expand the explanatory power of the principle of unjust enrichment and it is now often said (albeit not without controversy) to encompass both common law and equitable claims.\n\nIn civilian systems of law, unjust enrichment is often referred to as \"unjustified\" enrichment.\n\nGenerally speaking, the mere receipt of a benefit from another is unobjectionable and does not attract legal consequences. The exception is where such receipt is 'unjust' or 'unjustified'. Both civilian and common law legal systems have bodies of law providing remedies to reverse such enrichment.\n\nA conceptual split, albeit one not necessarily coextensive with the civilian-common law distinction, is between systems based on an \"unjust factor\" approach and systems based on an \"absence of basis\" approach.\nIn most cases, the conceptual approach does not affect the outcome of a case. For example, suppose that A makes an oral contract with B under which A will pay $100 for certain services to be provided by B. Further suppose that A pays the money but B discovers that, pursuant to legislation, contracts for such services are void unless in writing. B refuses to perform. Can A recover his payment? On both approaches, B is unjustly enriched at A's expense. On the \"absence of basis\" approach, B's enrichment has no legitimate explanatory basis because the contract was void. On the \"unjust factor\" approach, there has been a total failure of consideration; that is, A has received no part of the bargained-for counter-performance; restitution follows automatically from the fact of invalidity.\n\nThe remedy for unjust enrichment is restitution: the restoration of what was conferred to the claimant. In short, the correcting of the injustice that occurred when the claimant suffered a subtraction of wealth and the defendant received corresponding benefit. Restitution can take the form of a personal or a proprietary remedy.\n\nWhere a \"personal remedy\" is awarded, the defendant is ordered to pay the money value of the benefit received. This personal money award is the typical form of restitution ordered.\n\nWhere a \"proprietary remedy\" is awarded, the court recognises (or declares) that the defendant has a beneficial or security interest in specific property of the defendant. Whether proprietary remedies can be awarded depends on the jurisdiction in question. \n\nWhether there is a distinct body of law in Australia known as the law of unjust enrichment is a highly controversial question. In \"Pavey & Mathews v Paul\" (1987) 162 CLR 221 the concept of unjust enrichment was expressly endorsed by the High Court of Australia. This was subsequently followed in numerous first instance and appellate decisions, as well as by the High Court itself.\n\nConsiderable skepticism about the utility of the concept of unjust enrichment has been expressed in recent years. The equitable basis for the action for money had and received has instead been emphasised and in \"Australian Financial v Hills\" [2014] HCA 14 the plurality held that the concept of unjust enrichment was effectively 'inconsistent' with the law of restitution as it had developed in Australia. It is worth noting that the analytic framework had been expressly endorsed by the High Court just two years before in \"Equuscorp v Haxton\" [2012] HCA 7. For the moment, the concept of unjust enrichment appears to serve only a taxonomical function.\n\nThe acceptance of the unjust enrichment has been confirmed multiple times in Belgium by the Court of Cassation, which has ruled that the unjust enrichment is a general principle of law. The Court has stated that the legal basis for the unjust enrichment is equity.\n\nAccording to the Court, five elements constitute the unjust enrichment:\n\nThe law of unjust enrichment in England rapidly developed during the second half of the 20th century. It has been heavily influenced by the writings of jurists from Oxford and Cambridge. England adopts the \"unjust factor\" approach.\n\nThe \"Restatement (Third) of Restitution and Unjust Enrichment\" states that unjust enrichment is enrichment that lacks an adequate legal basis. It results from a transfer that the law treats as ineffective to work a conclusive alteration in ownership rights.\n\nThe North Dakota Supreme Court has ruled that five elements must be established to prove unjust enrichment:\n\nEffectively, the civil law doctrine is now in effect in North Dakota, as it has been in Louisiana and in Puerto Rico; both of which are mixed jurisdictions.\n\nIn Massachusetts, there are some decisions denying recovery in restitution by the breaching party although this is not generally the rule in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7505972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7505972", "title": "VII Photo Agency", "text": "VII Photo Agency\n\nVII Photo Agency is an international photo agency wholly owned and governed by its membership.\n\nThe cooperative agency was originally conceived by Gary Knight and John Stanmeyer. They were subsequently joined by Alexandra Boulat, Ron Haviv, Antonín Kratochvíl, Christopher Morris, and James Nachtwey and the agency, named after the number of founding members, was launched at the Visa pour l'image Festival in Perpignan, France, in September, 2001. VII was conceived to operate as a means of digital image distribution and representation wholly owned and controlled by the photographers it represented in response to large corporations acquiring the small photo agencies present in the industry at the time. Today, VII represents 19 photographers who have chronicled significant global events and topics since the late 1970s. \n\nVII established its reputation for news coverage during the war in Afghanistan that followed 9/11 and during the conflict in Israel/Palestine in 2002 and the invasion and occupation of Iraq in 2003. \n\nFrom being principally focused on news for editorial clients, the agency has diversified into social media, live events, video, and creative partnerships with NGOs / colleges / universities, exhibitions in leading museums, featured appearances at major art and photo festivals, and education. \n\nIn addition to the 19 current member photographers, young photographers are mentored by full members through the VII Mentor Program and represented by the agency. As of 1 June 2015, Richard Schoenberg, a Los Angeles-based businessman and former VII board member assumed the role of CEO and chairman of the board.\n\nNewest Americans is a three-year longitudinal study at Rutgers University–Newark that will document the lives and communities of students at the university and take an in-depth look at immigration and the idea of American identity. It is a collaborative effort involving VII, Rutger’s Center for Migration and the Global City (CMGC) and the Department of Arts, Culture and Media. The project, spearheaded by Tim Raphael, director of CMGC, focuses on immigrant experiences in New Jersey with Newark as the hub where these different stories converge. \"Notes for My Homeland\" was produced by Talking Eyes Media and is the first professionally produced piece in the storytelling project.\n\nFor the Evolution Tour, photojournalists from VII Photo Agency, along with technical specialists from AbelCine, present an examination of the evolving business, technology and craft of visual storytelling. This program is structured as a combination of seminars, panel discussions, hands-on workshops and networking.\n\nIn 2015, Ed Kashi, Ron Haviv, Marcus Bleasdale, Stefano De Luigi and John Stanmeyer, all members of VII Photo Agency will lead photography workshops in 4 different European capitals: Paris, Barcelona, Amsterdam and Berlin, as part of the Eyes in Progress’s workshops program.\n\nThrough a partnership between VII, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF, also known as Doctors Without Borders), and UNION HZ, Fatal Neglect is a multi-part documentary film project, to tell the stories of the millions of patients left behind by the global health revolution. In Fatal Neglect: The Global Health Revolution’s Forgotten Patients, VII documents the impact of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis and some of the deadliest neglected tropical diseases: “kala azar,” and “sleeping sickness.” Award-winning photojournalists Ron Haviv and John Stanmeyer traveled to capture the stories of frontline health workers trying to fight diseases that affect millions of people and kill hundreds of thousands each year yet garner little attention from drug developers, policy makers or the mass media.\n\nIn 2010, Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) and VII Photo launched “Starved for Attention,” an international multimedia campaign to rewrite the story of childhood malnutrition. Petition signatures were collected from people around the world who joined the partnership in demanding that donor nations stop supplying nutritionally substandard food to malnourished children.\n\n"}
{"id": "32769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32769", "title": "Vannevar Bush Award", "text": "Vannevar Bush Award\n\nThe National Science Board established the Vannevar Bush Award ( ) in 1980 to honor Vannevar Bush's unique contributions to public service. The annual award recognizes an individual who, through public service activities in science and technology, has made an outstanding \"contribution toward the welfare of mankind and the Nation.\" The recipient of the award receives a bronze medal struck in the memory of Dr. Bush. \n\nVannevar Bush (1890–1974) was a prominent scientist, adviser to US presidents, and the force behind the establishment of the National Science Foundation. In 1945, at the request of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, he wrote a famous essay entitled \"Science, the Endless Frontier\" which recommended that a foundation be established by the United States Congress to serve as a focal point for the USA Federal Government's support and encouragement of research and education in science and technology as well as the development of a national science policy. The legislation creating the National Science Foundation was signed by president Harry S. Truman on May 10, 1950.\n\nSource: National State Board\n\n"}
{"id": "1724610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1724610", "title": "William Alison", "text": "William Alison\n\nWilliam Pulteney Alison (12 November 1790 – 22 September 1859) was a Scottish physician, social reformer and philanthropist. He was a distinguished professor of medicine at the University of Edinburgh. He served as president of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh (1833), president of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh (1836–38), and vice-president of the British Medical Association, convening its meeting in Edinburgh in 1858.\n\nAlison was born in Boroughmuirhead on 12 November 1790, eldest son of Dorothea Gregory and Reverend Archibald Alison, the elder brother of the advocate Archibald Alison; and godson of Laura Pulteney, 1st Countess of Bath. In his youth he climbed Mont Blanc and other mountains as a pastime. He entered the University of Edinburgh in 1803, and studied under his father's friend Dugald Stewart, and for a time was expected to follow a career in philosophy rather than medicine. In 1811 he graduated as a physician.\n\nIn 1814 he opened the New Town Dispensary at 4 East James Street, at the east end of the city's New Town.\n\nHis academic career was impressive. He became a Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in 1820. From 1822 to 1842 he lectured in the Institutes of Medicine. From 1842 to 1856 he lectured in the Theory of Physic.\n\nHe was President of the Royal College of Physicians 1836-8, a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries, President of the Medico-Chirurgical Society in 1833, and Vice President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh 1842-59.\n\nHis uncle was Professor James Gregory and his cousin was Professor William Gregory.\n\nStruck by the poverty he encountered, Alison advocated poor relief in Scotland be extended from the sick and infirm to include the healthy impoverished. This was a radical suggestion as the ethos of the age was for poor relief to be withheld from the able-bodied destitute who were presumed to be indolent and sinful.\n\nPublished in his report on the generation of fever in Edwin Chadwick’s “Report on the sanitary condition of the laboring population,” despite the general feeling of many physicians at the time, Alison was of the opinion that malarias, or diseases, were not a result of putrescent animal and vegetable matters or human excretions, as many medical professionals believed, but rather was convinced that some diseases were “nearly beyond the power of medicine, but the causes of which are known, and under certain circumstances may be avoided; and the conditions necessary for avoiding them are in a great measure in the power of communities, though beyond the power of many of the individuals composing them.”\n\nAlison proposed using the Scottish Poor Law to alleviate poverty as a means of assuaging disease, but the Poor Law Commissioners supported the position of English reformer Edwin Chadwick that disease was caused by filth and miasmas. Alison held to the contagion theory of disease, stating its spread was facilitated through poverty and overcrowding. He argued that poverty arose from social factors, not sin and sloth, and that higher wages should be paid to workers to mitigate disease by reducing the effect of overcrowding and destitution. In stating a case for fighting disease that appeared to be outside the province of contemporary medicine Alison was a pioneer of \"political\" medicine, as well as social epidemiology and public health.\n\nIn his 1840 publication \"Observations on the management of the poor in Scotland and its effect on the health in the great towns\", Alison argued that the government and its agencies had a major role in the alleviation of poverty and that this undertaking should not be left to religious groups or private charities. He advocated using public taxes to assist widows, orphans and the unemployed poor, and criticised the establishment for ignoring those who were fit but impoverished. The findings of the 1844 Royal Commission on Poor Laws (Scotland) lent support to Alison's viewpoint. Alison was very critical of the Scottish upper class for not providing what Alison believed to be adequate relief to the impoverished citizens of the country, while praising the English system, which had a long-established legislative framework to maintain minimum standards of relief for those suffering from poverty. Contrary to England’s governmental standards, Scotland’s system was based around voluntary charity by the wealthier members of society, justified by claiming that legal guarantees of support and relief for the impoverished would remove any motivation for the poor to work out of their situation and would rather create an incentive to stay stagnant as poor in order to receive governmental benefits. Alison counter argued, saying that it was unrelieved poverty that truly lowered the morality of the poor, and not providing any relief not only made the impoverished more prone to contract disease, but also more short-sighted and reckless. There was also no evidence in Alison’s mind that the English system of governmental relief had brought any of the negative consequences that the Scottish had attributed to it, and rather “the English people receive a temporal reward for their more humane and merciful management of the poor, in the comparative exemption of most of their great towns from the curse of contagious fever.”\n\nAlison also promoted preventive social medicine and initiated a program to vaccinate children against smallpox, and he established Edinburgh's Fever Board to combat epidemics. He advocated speedy diagnosis of the ill and, where found to be contagious or infectious, he recommended fumigation and ventilation of the residence and prompt hospitalisation for the patient. His methods bore fruit during the cholera epidemic of 1831–1832, whereby Edinburgh took immediate and effective action to mitigate the outbreak without awaiting instructions from London.\n\nIn strongly advocating government intervention to alleviate poverty as a means to combat disease, Alison was ahead of his time but he lived to see public opinion move closer to his initiatives.\n\nHe married his first cousin Margaret Craufurd/Crawford Gregory (1809–1849), daughter of James Gregory in 1832; the marriage was childless.\n\nAttacks of epilepsy forced him to retire in 1856, and he died at Colinton on 22 September 1859. He was interred at St John's Episcopal Cemetery in Edinburgh.\n\n\n"}
