{"id": "22605309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22605309", "title": "2009 flu pandemic by country", "text": "2009 flu pandemic by country\n\nThis article deals with the status and efforts regarding the 2009 flu pandemic by country and continent/region.\n\nAs the pandemic progressed, laboratory testing and confirmation decreased. Confirmed figures for the United Kingdom, in particular, are only meaningful up to 2 July, when routine testing stopped and presumed cases were treated without laboratory confirmation of diagnosis. Following the recommendations of the World Health Organization (WHO), many countries stopped issuing estimates of the infected population, making this list inaccurate.\n\nThe Egyptian government ordered the mass slaughter of all pigs in Egypt on 29 April, even though the current strain was a human-human transmittable, human influenza that had previously hybridized with avian flu and swine flu. The World Organization for Animal Health called the swine killing \"scientifically unjustified\".\n\nThe first case of the H1N1 virus was discovered in Cairo, Egypt on 2 June 20, in a 12-year-old girl coming from the US with her mother. Only the girl was infected and the officials caught the case before letting her out of the airport. A second and third case were discovered on Sunday 7 June, two students at the American University of Cairo. On 11 June 2 more cases were discovered, bringing the total number of cases to 12.\n\nThe swine flu was confirmed in 21 African countries: Egypt, South Africa, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Ethiopia, Côte d'Ivoire, Seychelles, Cape Verde, Libya, Kenya, Uganda, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Mauritius, Somalia, Sudan, Namibia, Zambia, Gabon, and Rwanda.\nThe H1N1 virus was a concern in the months leading up to the 2010 FIFA World Cup, which took place in June 2010 in South Africa.\n\nOn 27 April, Azerbaijan imposed a ban on import of animal husbandry products from America. AZAL took additional safety measures and a sanitary quarantine unit of the Health Ministry started to operate in Heydar Aliyev International Airport, checking all aircraft and passengers. On 2 May Border checkpoints with disinfection barriers for both cars and pedestrians were installed at the Samur, Shirvanovka and Khan Oba checkpoints in Qusar and Khachmaz Raions. The veterinary services at checkpoints intensified their activities while hog farms in the northern regions switched to a closed farming regime.\n\nSeventy-seven cases were confirmed in Israel. In response to the outbreak, the Israeli Deputy Minister of Health, Yaakov Litzman, suggested that out of respect for the religious sensibilities of Jews and Muslims, the flu should be called \"Mexican Flu.\" This was done so as to not confuse the population into thinking that they could not acquire the virus if they did not eat pork. The Israeli government retracted this proposal following Mexican complaints.\n\nThe first confirmed cases were reported in Kuwait on 23 May, after about 18 people on U.S. military bases tested positive.\n\nOn 30 May 2009 the first three cases were confirmed in Lebanon. \"One Lebanese man who was in Spain and two Canadians who arrived in Lebanon a week ago are suffering from swine flu,\" the health minister said. \"We put them in quarantine and the blood samples we have taken every day have proven to be positive. The Lebanese man and the two visiting Canadians – a woman and her daughter – were given the proper medical treatment in time and they are well now.\" The Lebanese Health Minister had previously asked citizens to stop the habit of social kissing, that affected schoolchildren be kept at home and that travel to countries in which cases have been confirmed be avoided. Beirut also banned the import of pork.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia, the first case, which affected a Filipino nurse working at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center, was confirmed on 1 June. The Health Ministry, in cooperation with the hospital, applied the national plan for the prevention of swine flu in accordance with WHO's recommendations. Accordingly, the patient was isolated and treated.\n\nAll people entering India via the main airport hubs of Mumbai, New Delhi, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Goa, Jaipur, Kochi, Chennai, Bangalore and Hyderabad were screened. The primary focus was on passengers entering from the US, The United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico, France and New Zealand. As of 25 October, over 13,000 cases had been confirmed in India, with 444 deaths, starting with a 13-year-old girl's death in the city of Pune, where almost 91 people died.\n\nIn the Maldives, a ministerial committee was established to supervise preventive measures to avoid an outbreak. All visitors arriving at the Malé International Airport and the country's three commercial seaports were screened.\n\nPakistan took precautionary measures at its international airports to check passengers coming from affected countries. Doctors checked incoming passengers and allowed entry only to those with no symptoms. Major hospitals were placed on high alert.\n\nSince 8 July a total of 207 cases were reported in Brunei.\n\nThe Cambodian Pig Raiser Association told the government it should ban live pig imports. But Khlauk Chuon, the deputy director of Camcontrol at the Ministry of Commerce, said they would only ban live pig imports from affected countries.\n\nThe Indonesian government halted the importation of pigs and initiated the examination of 9 million pigs. Thermal scanners that can detect human body temperature were installed at Indonesian ports of entry.\n\nThe Lao government bought 10 thermal imaging machines to install at the country's major immigration border checkpoints. The Prime Minister Bouasone Bouphavanh said masks should be made available and health officials would be assigned to border checkpoints. On 22 July, Laos recorded its first death.\n\nIn Malaysia, health screenings were carried out on passengers traveling to and from Mexico via sea, air and land beginning 17 April. The Health Ministry's disease control division activated its operations room to monitor the situation and informed medical practitioners treating suspicious cases to inform the district health office immediately. Thermal scanners were installed at Kuala Lumpur International Airport. Screenings were imposed in Pengkalan Hulu, at the border with Thailand, in late April. Quarantine rooms were allocated in 28 hospitals and the country stockpiled more than 2 million doses of Tamiflu, as of May 2009. Schools were issued strict hygiene procedures on 16 May to contain any outbreak. On 15 May, the Health Ministry confirmed Malaysia's first case: a male student who had arrived via air from Newark. The first death was reported on 23 July. As of 11 August there were 2,253 confirmed cases. As of 12 August the total number of deaths in Malaysia stood at 44.\n\nIn the Philippines, thermal imaging equipment at airports was implemented to screen passengers coming from the US. The Philippines quarantined travelers arriving from Mexico with fever. The importation of hogs from the U.S. and Mexico was banned and the restriction of vaccine use was retracted. On 18 May, a Filipina girl who arrived from Houston was the first confirmed case in the Philippines. As of 15 June, there were 193 confirmed cases. On 22 June, the first death was reported.\n\nThe first case in Singapore was confirmed on 27 May. It was announced on 18 June that Singapore appeared to have its first case. As of 7 July 1,217 confirmed cases had been reported. As of 25 July, there were 4 confirmed deaths.\n\nVietnam's Ministry of Health released an emergency dispatch and urged agencies to take precautionary measures. Thermal imaging devices were dispatched to airports and border gates to screen passengers. In response to WHO's warnings, Vietnam on 30 April raised its alert level to 4, which indicated a \"threat of community level outbreaks\" while local authorities executed precautionary measures. On 1 May 2009 a Ministry of Industry and Trade official said that the Ministry was considering a ban on pork import \"under certain situations\". On 31 May Vietnam announced its first case, a 23-year-old student recently returned from the United States.\n\nOn 26 April, visitors returning from flu-affected areas to China who experienced flu-like symptoms within two weeks were to be quarantined. On 2 May, the Chinese government suspended flights from Tijuana to Shanghai. Meanwhile, the Civil Aviation Administration of China assigned a charter to transport stranded Chinese visitors home. The first suspected case was reported on 10 May 2009.\n\nOn 29 April the Food and Health Bureau of Hong Kong advised Hong Kong residents not to travel to Mexico unless absolutely necessary. The first case was a Mexican who arrived from Shanghai. The Bureau escalated the alert level from \"alert\" to \"serious\", which activated health protection measures in all ports of entry of Hong Kong. Thermal screening machines were used to identify passengers with fever and respiratory symptoms. Any passenger who is confirmed to have a fever were quarantined and sent to public hospital for investigation. Hong Kong became one of the first jurisdictions to declare the swine flu as a notifiable disease. Much of the procedures against the contagion were learned from the 2003 SARS outbreak, of which Hong Kong was the epicenter of the outbreak. On 1 May, the first case in Hong Kong and also the first in Asia was confirmed. The Mexican patient arrived in Hong Kong on 30 April. Metropark Hotel Wanchai, where the patient stayed, was quarantined. After the first case was confirmed, Hong Kong's response level was raised from \"serious\" to \"emergency\".\n\nIn Japan, live pig imports were inspected. Japanese Agriculture Minister Shigeru Ishiba appeared on television to reassure customers that it was safe to eat pork. The Japanese farm ministry said that it would not ask for restrictions on pork imports because the virus was unlikely to turn up in pork and would be killed by cooking. On 8 May, the first three cases were confirmed. The infected patients had spent time in Canada and returned to Japan via Detroit. The first domestic infection was confirmed on 16 May in Kobe. As of 18 May 130 cases had been confirmed.\n\nSouth Korea warned against travel to Mexico City and three Mexican states. The government stepped up quarantine and safety checks on travelers arriving from the United States and Mexico, and pork imports from those countries. An emergency quarantine system was instituted, with simple tests conducted on people with flu symptoms at airports. On 28 April, South Korea reported its first probable case after positive preliminary tests on a nun who had recently returned from Mexico. One case was confirmed on 30 April. On 2 May, the first suspected woman turned out to be infected. South Korea became the second infected nation in Asia. On 13 September, five people died, and 1 person experienced brain death. As of November, 107,939 had been infected.\n\nOn 20 May the first case of the influenza was confirmed in Taiwan. The government had previously taken steps to prevent an outbreak, including a command center, travel alerts for infected nations, and more severe health checks at international ports. Taiwan said visitors who arrived from affected areas with fevers would be quarantined. According to The Department of Health (DOH), Taiwan had a sufficient supply of surgical masks and vaccine to deal with the flu. The DOH stated that they had 50 to 60 million masks in stock and that local manufacturers had the capability of producing 200,000 doses of the flu vaccine a month. The Centers for Disease Control announced on 28 April that every flight from the Americas, specifically Canada and the United States, that arrived in Taiwan would be subject to a strict on-board screening procedure.\n\nOn 2 July, the first case of oseltamivir-resistant virus in Asia was announced in Japan, in a woman who had been taking Tamiflu prophylactically.\n\nOn 18 July 2009, Hong Kong had its first swine flu death.\n\nOn 3 July, a case of Tamiflu-resistant virus was discovered. The woman had not previously taken Tamiflu, so concern has been expressed that she may have contracted an already resistant virus from someone else.\n\nOn 28 August 2009, the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare announced that it estimated approximately 760,000 people would be infected and 46,400 hospitalized per day during the expected peak month of October. Overall they predicted that 20% of rural Japanese would become infected and 30% in city areas.\n\nOn 27 April, the Spanish Ministry of Health and Social Policy announced its first case (the first in Europe) in a 23-year-old man who had recently returned from Mexico on 22 April and had been quarantined on the 25th. The day the European Union health commissioner advised Europeans not to travel to the United States or Mexico unless urgent.<ref name=\"Guardian 27/4\"></ref>\n\nOn 14 June, it was reported that the United Kingdom had its first confirmed death.\n\nAs of 22 December, every European country, apart from the 5 microstates had confirmed deaths. France had 27; Spain, 33; Norway, 29 (4 January 2010); Italy, 6; Belgium and Germany, 8; Sweden, 3 (3 November); Malta and Greece, 3; Denmark, Finland, Hungary and Luxemburg, 1; Ireland and the Netherlands, 10, and the United Kingdom, 79. The British government suggested 55,000 new cases in the week up to 16 July.\n\nHungary reported the first death in the country on 22 July. Ireland reported its first death on 7 August.\n\nAs of 19 August, all European countries with the exception of the micro states San Marino and Vatican City had reported cases.\n\nIn Canada, roughly 10% of the populace were infected with the virus, with 363 confirmed deaths (as of 8 December); confirmed cases had reached 10,000 when Health Canada stopped counting in July. Canada began its vaccination campaign in October and vaccinated a higher proportion of its citizens than any other country. The pandemic was a concern in the months leading to the XXI Olympic Winter Games, which took place in Vancouver in February 2010.\n\nDr. José Ángel Córdova Villalobos, Mexico's Secretariat of Health, stated that since March 2009, over 1,995 suspected cases and 149 deaths were confirmed. Twenty were confirmed to be linked to a new strain of Influenza A virus subtype H1N1. \"'As many as 23,000 Mexicans were likely infected with the swine flu virus,' Neil Ferguson of Imperial College London and colleagues reported in the journal Science.\" Soldiers mobilized by the government have handed out six million surgical masks to citizens in and around Mexico City.\nOn 24 April 2009, schools (from pre-school to university level) as well as libraries, museums, concerts and any public gathering place, were shut down by the government in Mexico City and the neighboring State of Mexico to prevent the disease from spreading further; the schools in Mexico City, the State of Mexico, and the state of San Luis Potosí would remain quarantined until at least 5 May. Marcelo Ebrard, Mexico City's mayor, asked all night-life operators to shut down their places of business for ten days to prevent further infections.\nOn 25 April, President Felipe Calderón declared an emergency which granted him the power to suspend public events and order quarantines. On 26 April, the World Bank announced US$25 million in immediate aid loans to Mexico, an additional US$180 million for long-term assistance to address the outbreak, and advice on how other nations have responded to similar crises. On 27 April, the Secretariat of Public Education announced that all schools in Mexico would remain closed at least until 6 May. On 28 April, the Mexico City government closed all restaurants and cinemas. The National History and Anthropology Institute closed all archaeological sites and museums, including the most famous Mayan and Aztec ruins, until further notice.\n\nIn the United States, initial reports of atypical flu in two individuals in southern California led to the discovery of the virus by the Center for Disease Control in mid-April. More than a hundred cases were confirmed in the following two weeks, across a dozen states. Outside of California and Texas, initial cases were all tied to recent travel to Mexico or close contact with those who had. St. Francis Preparatory School, a private school in New York, was the center of a large cluster of cases after a spring break trip by several students. It was one of the first US schools to be closed during the early outbreak. Most of the cases in California and Texas were not linked and may have reflected localized outbreaks. The disease was not as virulent outside of Mexico, for reasons not fully understood. The US declared a state of Public Health Emergency, but this was said to be standard procedure in cases as divergent as the recent inauguration and flooding. On 29 April, the US suffered its first confirmed death, and on 5 May the first US citizen died from swine flu. As of 6 June, there were 17 confirmed deaths from swine flu in the US. As of mid-May 2009 many states had abandoned testing unless serious illness and/or hospitalization were present. Because reported numbers represented only confirmed cases, they were a \"very great understatement\" of the total number of cases of infection, according to the CDC. The real number of cases in the United States could be 「upwards of 100,000,」 a top public health official estimated on Friday – far higher than the official count of 7,415 cases confirmed by laboratories.\nAs of 20 October 2009, cases had reached over 256,000, with 2,800 deaths in the United States.\n\nIn Aruba, all passengers arriving by airplane or cruise ship were required to fill out a health questionnaire beginning on 27 April 2009. Hotels and resorts were required to report to authorities if any tourists were showing flu-like symptoms. The government ordered antiviral medication and other supplies from the Netherlands and the United States. No cases were reported.\n\nIn Barbados, the first confirmed case occurred on 3 June 2009. The second case was confirmed on 6 June. The third case was confirmed on 10 June. The fourth case was confirmed on 17 June. Twenty five samples were sent to the Caribbean Epidemiology Center.\n\nCuba suspended flights to and from Mexico for 48 hours. The first case in Cuba was confirmed in mid-May.\n\nThe first two cases in the Dominican Republic were confirmed on 27 May. By 7 June, 93 cases had been confirmed, primarily mild infections.\n\nAs of 7 July 2009, 33 cases were confirmed in Jamaica. Health Minister Ruddy Spencer told Parliament that the country had been placed on high alert. There was heightened surveillance at health care facilities and ports of entry.\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago, one female case was confirmed.\n\nIn the Bahamas, ten students and teachers who arrived from Mexico in the last week of April were in quarantine.\n\nThe first two cases of the 2009 flu pandemic in Costa Rica, both of whom had traveled to Mexico, were confirmed on 28 April. On 31 July local authorities announced that the country was among the sample countries that would test the vaccine developed by Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis. The local sample would include 784 Costa Ricans ages 3 to 64. Besides Costa Rica, this vaccine prototype would be tested in Mexico and the United States.\n\nOn 11 August, it was confirmed that Costa Rica's President, Óscar Arias Sánchez, was infected with the virus, becoming the first head of state. President Arias returned to normal activities after one week of isolation. As of 15 October the Costa Rican Ministry of Health had 1,530 confirmed cases, 1,242 pending cases and 38 deaths.\n\nGuatemala checked all travelers arriving from Mexico and stopped anyone with symptoms at border crossings. On 5 May, in a meeting with Health Minister and the Vice President, it was announced that an 11-year-old girl was infected. As of 7 July Guatemala had 286 confirmed cases leading to two fatalities.\n\nHonduras reported its first confirmed case on 27 May. By 7 June the country had reported 67 cases, mostly in San Pedro Sula and along the Atlantic Coastline. All airports and commercial sites as well as public events were monitored. As of 7 July there were 123 confirmed cases and one fatality.\n\nAs on 4 June 179 confirmed cases had been reported by Panamanian health authorities. Of these, 91 were male and 88 were female. Schools with positive cases were being disinfected. Thermal cameras had been deployed in Tocumen International Airport to identify symptomatic passengers.\n\nAs of 7 July, El Salvador reported 319 confirmed cases, and Nicaragua 321. Panama and Nicaragua reported no fatalities.\n\nResearchers in Australia and New Zealand reaffirmed that infants under the age of 1 had the highest risk of developing severe illness. Canadian health officials reported that swine flu is hospitalizing three to four times as many children as regular seasonal flu.\n\nThe first confirmed case in Australia was reported on 9 May. As of 3 July, Australia had 7,290 confirmed cases. The first Australian death was on 19 June and the total death toll reached 20. The alert level was raised from \"delay\" to \"contain\", giving authorities in all states the option to close schools. Australia stockpiled 8.7 million doses of Tamiflu and Relenza. At the beginning of the outbreak airlines were required to report passengers from the Americas with influenza symptoms and nurses were deployed at international airports.\n\nOn 30 May, New Zealand had 9 confirmed cases and 10 probables. During June cases in New Zealand rose rapidly. On 14 June the Ministry of Health announced a 65% increase in cases in just 24 hours. On 4 July, the Ministry of Health announced the first New Zealand deaths. Three confirmed deaths were confirmed, however two had known underlying medical conditions. The total number of confirmed cases reached 945.\n\nTwo cases were confirmed in the Pacific Islands. Both cases were confirmed on 15 June, one in the Solomon Islands and another in Samoa. 5 cases were confirmed in Fiji as of 24 June and 1 case in Vanuatu.\n\nIn Argentina, as of April, passengers with symptoms arriving from Mexico and United States were required to list where they would be should they experience any symptoms. In addition, the government stepped up safety checks, and thermal scanners were being used at airports to detect passengers with fever and other influenza symptoms. Flights from Mexico were temporarily suspended. These measures proved to be largely ineffective. As of 22 June, Argentina had 1,213 confirmed cases and 10 confirmed deaths, increasing to 52 confirmed deaths and an estimated number of as many as 100,000 infected on 2 July, as confirmed by Minister of Health Juan Luis Manzur. As of 14 July, the number of officially recognised cases skyrocketed, with 137 deaths, making the death toll in Argentina the second highest in the world, behind only the US.\n\nAs of April, Brazilian airports were monitoring arrivals from affected areas, under the direction of the National Sanitary Surveillance Agency (ANVISA). Air crews were trained on signs and symptoms. As of 4 June, there were 28 confirmed cases.\n\nThe first case flu in Chile was confirmed on 17 May. On 29 May, the Chilean Health ministry confirmed the number of cases had risen to 226. On 3 June Chile suffered its first confirmed death, a 37-year-old man from Puerto Montt. To the date, and since laboratory tests were no longer mandatory, the estimate of cases in Chile reached 500.000 cases.\n\nOn 3 May, Minister Palacio confirmed the first case in Colombia, in a 42-year-old, who had recently traveled to Mexico. According to Palacio, only one of 18 tests sent to Atlanta was positive. The patient was isolated and put under medical treatment. On the same day, Palacio stated there were 108 suspect cases in the country. On 27 April, the Government declared a \"national disaster\" state which allowed health authorities to have a special budget. The government purchased 400,000 oseltamivir (Tamiflu) doses, to be distributed through the Social Protection ministry.\n\nHealth officials examined arrivals with flu symptoms.\nOn 29 April, Ecuador closed its borders to Mexican citizens and foreigners of other nationalities arriving from Mexico for 30 days. On 15 May, health officials confirmed the first case in Ecuador. On 20 May, the Health Department confirmed 7 more new cases, raising the total to 8, and then to 41.\n\nThe first case in Peru was confirmed on 14 May. On 17 May, the second case was confirmed. He had returned from the US on 12 May, showing symptoms only two days later. On 18 May a new case was confirmed, a scholar returning from a trip to Dominican Republic. Another case of a scholar came from the same trip. The student had contact with the third victim and both studied in the same school. The Governor of Callao ordered that all passengers from any infected country be checked before their entry into Peruvian territory. The Peruvian government was to be warned of any case or symptom. This step affected the main port and airport of Peru, located in Callao. The government prepared a special area at the Hospital \"Daniel Alcides Carrión\" to treat cases. Slaughterhouses were inspected and screened incoming passengers from problem areas. All commercial flights from Mexico to Peru were suspended on 29 April.\n\nIn Venezuela, controls were raised at airports to prevent contagion from spreading. Travellers from the United States and Mexico with symptoms were isolated until they cleared. Pig farms in the country were \"closely inspected\" and medicine stockpiled. On 28 May Health Minister Jesús Mantilla confirmed the first case in a Venezuelan citizen who flew from Panama. He was isolated and treated. The following day, a second case was confirmed from another person on the same flight.\n\nEpidemiologists cautioned that the number of cases reported in the early days of an outbreak could be very inaccurate. Causes included selection bias, media bias and incorrect reporting by governments.\n\nSelection bias in epidemiology occurs when authorities in different jurisdictions look at differing sets of patient. For example, in the early days of the pandemic, doctors in Mexico may have been concentrating on patients in hospitals, rather than the larger vulnerable population. This may in part explain the higher mortality recorded there. Conversely, it is implausible that few, if any, died in Mexico while Brazil and the United States accumulated hundreds of additional lab-confirmed deaths. Media bias may have skewed incidence maps based on these media reports. Countries with poor health care systems and poor laboratory facilities may take longer to identify suspected cases, analyse those cases and report them.\n\nPassive data collection methodologies (waiting for the patient to arrive at a health care facility) are considered inferior to active data collection techniques (performing random stratified sampling) due to selection bias and because laboratory facilities to perform swift genetic tests on patient samples are not widely available. there no properly controlled epidemiological studies had been conducted for the 2009 outbreak.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52601578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52601578", "title": "Action against Austerity", "text": "Action against Austerity\n\nAction Against Austerity is a grassroots network of groups in Scotland opposing Austerity\n\nThe network formed in 2015 from signatories to the \"From Yes to Action statement\" which was founded by the autonomous centre of Edinburgh, the Edinburgh section of the Anarchist Federation, the Edinburgh branch of The Industrial Workers of The World and Edinburgh Coalition Against Poverty and all of which are members of the network .\n\nOther members include Dundee Against Welfare Sanctions(DAWS) now called Dundee Against Austerity.\n\nThe IWW Scottish Assembly voted to support \"From Yes to action\" and so Clydeside(Glasgow) IWW joined along with Edinburgh.\n"}
{"id": "39814846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39814846", "title": "Anti-Coup Alliance", "text": "Anti-Coup Alliance\n\nThe Anti-Coup Alliance (also known as the National Alliance Supporting Legitimacy) is a coalition in Egypt formed to defeat the ouster of former president Mohamed Morsi. The coalition is made up of approximately 40 Islamist parties and groups.\n\nThe coalition has called upon the opposition to break ties with figures they call \"corrupt\" from the Mubarak regime. Notably, the political wing of the group (the Building and Development Party) and the Wasat Party did not take part in protests held by pro-Morsi forces during the week of 18 October 2013. The alliance offered a new reconciliation initiative that does not include the reinstatement of Morsi on 26 October 2013; al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, Egyptian Islamic Jihad and the Homeland Party are not calling for the reinstatement of Morsi, while the Virtue Party, Authenticity Party and the Muslim Brotherhood are still demanding that Morsi be reinstated as president. The group has reached out to what it called \"fellow revolutionaries\" to cooperate with them against the protest law in Egypt in order to jointly organize protests; Kefaya objected to the call for cooperation.\n\nMembers of the Building and Development Party, the political arm of al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, wanted to meet with Yasser Al Borhamy, the deputy head of the Salafist Call as well as Emad Abdel Ghaffour, who is the head of the Homeland Party. Al Borhamy reportedly could not meet with the members, while Ghaffour asked them to stop demonstrations before talks could begin and rebuffed their demands for the reinstatement of Morsi and the bringing back of the Shura Council that was dissolved. Borhami denied being asked to serve as a mediator, though he stated that he would act as a mediator if there were no preconditions. The alliance has said it will boycott the 2014 constitutional referendum.\n\nVarious groups and parties within the alliance including al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, the Building and Development Party, the Islamic Party, the Freedom and Justice Party and the Virtue Party have criticized the Nour Party for its support of the draft constitution. The Islamic Party has not participated in meetings with the group because of what Mohamed Abu Samra (the secretary-general of the party) called the \"brotherhood's radical thought\". The Salafist Front issued a statement on 30 April 2014 that called on the alliance to temporarily stop its actions in order to avoid more violence; the alliance did not suspend its activities in response. Egyptian Prime minister Ibrahim Mahlab issued a decree on 16 October 2014 banning the alliance. Another decree was issued on 30 October 2014 which dissolved the alliance. A court postponed the appeal of the dissolution of the alliance until 13 November 2014.\n\nParties and organizations in the coalition include:\nThe Wasat Party withdrew from the alliance on 28 August 2014. The Homeland Party withdrew from the alliance on 17 September 2014, though the reason for its leaving was to reorganize itself. The Authenticity Party is considering leaving the alliance because it has not achieved its goals. The Salafist Front had withdrawn from the alliance on 30 November 2014. The Independence Party announced on 4 December 2014 that it had withdrawn. The Arab Unification Party and the Islamic Party have withdrawn from the Anti-Coup Alliance. al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya is considering withdrawing from the alliance. Osama Hafez, the leader of the groups shura council, has called on the organization to withdraw from the alliance.\n\nA court verdict that could have banned the alliance was not given on 21 May 2014 because the Cairo Court for Urgent Matters ruled that it lacked jurisdiction. An appeal to dissolve the coalition was thrown out on 22 September 2014 partly because it did not indicate what parties are part of the alliance and did not indicate the coalitions alleged connections to \"terrorist activities\". Another verdict in September 2014 banned the alliance.\n"}
{"id": "29429836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29429836", "title": "Arab Congress of 1913", "text": "Arab Congress of 1913\n\nThe Arab Congress of 1913 (also known as the \"Arab National Congress,\" \"First Palestinian Conference,\" the \"First Arab Congress,\" and the \"Arab-Syrian Congress\") met in a hall of the French Geographical Society (Société de Géographie) at 184 Boulevard Saint-Germain, Paris from June 18–23 in Paris to discuss reforms to grant the Arabs living under the Ottoman Empire more autonomy. The Arab National Congress, was established by 25 official Arab Nationalists delegates to discuss desired reforms to grant Arabs more autonomy under the Ottoman Empire. \nIt took place at a time of uncertainty and change in the Ottoman Empire: in the years leading up to World War I, the Empire had undergone a revolution (1908) and a coup (1913) by the Young Turks, and had been defeated in two wars against Italy and the Balkan states. The Arabs were agitating for more rights under the fading empire and early glimmers of Arab nationalism were emerging. A number of dissenting and reform-oriented groups formed in Greater Syria, Palestine, Constantinople, and Egypt. Under Zionist influence, Jewish immigration to Palestine was increasing, and England and France were expressing interest in the region, competing for spheres of influence.\nIt was under these conditions that a group of students living in Paris called for a Congress to be held to discuss proposed Arab reforms. While the Congress was not ultimately successful in its proposed aims, it was a reflection of events taking place and dynamics that shaped the early 20th century for three continents before World War I began. Many scholars place the origins of Arab nationalism during these crucial years that witnessed a dwindling of empires and a build-up of tension surrounding Zionist immigration to Palestine and Arab reaction to it. The whole Congress declared itself ready to struggle to bring the Arab Nation into being by means of revolution. Al-Hoda Editor and Lebanese League of Progress President, Naoum Mokarzel started cautiously by saying that: “The Revolution must be literary and reformist”, he continued more aggressively “only the last resort should it be bloody, because the political systems of free nations have been constructed by martyrs and not with printers ink.” »\n\nThe Ottoman Empire was in a state of decline at the beginning of the 20th century. In 1908, a revolt led by the Young Turks led to regime change that briefly led to increased freedom of expression until the Turkish crackdown of 1915-1916. Attempts by the regime to contain Western influence, implement an increasingly centralized government, and movement toward the \"Turkification\" of Arab lands prompted resistance from parts of the Arab world. War broke out in the Balkans in October 1912, further weakening Istanbul's hold over its domain. (N)\n\nScholars disagree over when exactly Arab nationalism began, but there were glimmers of a distinctive Arab identity beginning to form, partly in response to perceived Ottoman oppression, in the years leading up to the Arab Congress. Particular concerns included the desire to speak Arabic in the public sphere, a decentralized administration (i.e. more local control over administrative matters), and the right for Arab soldiers to serve in their own region, rather than a distant corner of the empire.\n\nA number of reform-minded groups sprung up in these early years before World War I. Many remained secret so as to avoid government infiltration.\n\n\n\nJewish immigrants had begun arriving in historic Palestine before 1900. By 1913 there was concern among Arab communities that the Zionist settlers desired to settle Arab lands at the exclusion of the Arabs.\nEngland and France were showing interest in the region as the two empires competed with one another for influence. Scholar David Thomas contends that many of the reform groups that participated in the conference \"...were more suspicious of the intentions of Britain and France in the Levant than afraid of and hostile to the Ottoman Porte...\"\nThe Congress was held under the auspices of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\n\nWhile there were 25 \"official\" delegates, many representatives of reform societies attended unofficially. The following is a partial list of both official and unofficial individuals:\n\nAccording to Rashid Khalidi,\nthe adopted resolutions included making Arabic \"an official language in the Arab provinces...the employment of Arab troops in their home provinces except in time of war...stronger locally-controlled provincial government.\"\nAlso per Khalidi, the resolutions were sent to the Quai d'Orsay. Perhaps a reflection of their own desired autonomy, the Congress included a \"declaration of solidarity with the autonomist demands of the Armenians\" (page 314).\n\nThe Congress did not have a lasting effect, due in no small part to the beginning of World War I. Many of the concerns addressed at the Congress were decided as parts of larger shifts of power during the War.\nIt is impossible to say what directions these proposed reforms would have taken were it not for the war, the fall of the Ottoman Empire and the Balfour Declaration. It is clear, however, that not only did Arabs not gain the freedoms they sought from the Ottomans, but with increased Zionist immigration, the Arab Revolt of 1936-37, and the founding of Israel in 1948, that rather the opposite came to pass. The Arab nationalism that came about after World War II is attributable to factors such as the decline of colonial influence, rather than reforms debated back in 1913.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1376", "title": "Army", "text": "Army\n\nAn army (from Latin \"arma\" \"arms, weapons\" via Old French \"armée\", \"armed\" [feminine]) or land force is a fighting force that fights primarily on land. In the broadest sense, it is the land-based military branch, service branch or armed service of a nation or state. It may also include aviation assets by possessing an army aviation component. In certain states, the term army refers to the entire armed forces (e.g., People's Liberation Army). Within a national military force, the word army may also mean a field army.\n\nIn several countries, the army is officially called the Land Army to differentiate it from an air force called the Air Army, notably France. In such countries, the word \"army\" on its own retains its connotation of a land force in common usage. The current largest army in the world, by number of active troops, is the People's Liberation Army Ground Force of China with 1,600,000 active troops and 510,000 reserve personnel followed by the Indian Army with 1,129,000 active troops and 960,000 reserve personnel.\n\nBy convention, irregular military is understood in contrast to regular armies which grew slowly from personal bodyguards or elite militia. Regular in this case refers to standardized doctrines, uniforms, organizations, etc. Regular military can also refer to full-time status (standing army), versus reserve or part-time personnel. Other distinctions may separate statutory forces (established under laws such as the National Defence Act), from de facto \"non-statutory\" forces such as some guerrilla and revolutionary armies. Armies may also be expeditionary (designed for overseas or international deployment) or fencible (designed for – or restricted to – homeland defence)\n\nIndia has had the earliest armies in the world. The first known recorded battles, the War of the 10 Kings, happened when a Hindu Aryan emperor Sudas defeated an alliance of ten kings and their supportive chieftains. During the Iron Age, the Maurya and Nanda Empires had the largest armies in the world, the peak being approximately over 600,000 Infantry, 30,000 Cavalry, 8,000 War-Chariots and 9,000 War Elephants not including tributary state allies. In the Gupta age, large armies of longbowmen were recruited to fight off invading horse archer armies. Elephants, pikemen and cavalry were other featured troops.\n\nIn Rajput times, the main piece of equipment was iron or chain-mail armour, a round shield, either a curved blade or a straight-sword, a chakra disc and a katar dagger.\n\nThe states of China raised armies for at least 1000 years before the Spring and Autumn Annals. By the Warring States period, the crossbow had been perfected enough to become a military secret, with bronze bolts which could pierce any armor. Thus any political power of a state rested on the armies and their organization. China underwent political consolidation of the states of Han (韓), Wei (魏), Chu (楚), Yan (燕), Zhao (趙) and Qi (齊), until by 221 BCE, Qin Shi Huang (秦始皇帝), the first emperor of the Qin dynasty, attained absolute power. This first emperor of China could command the creation of a Terracotta Army to guard his tomb in the city of Xi'an (西安), as well as a realignment of the Great Wall of China to strengthen his empire against insurrection, invasion and incursion.\n\nSun Tzu's \"The Art of War\" remains one of China's Seven Military Classics, even though it is two thousand years old. Since no political figure could exist without an army, measures were taken to ensure only the most capable leaders could control the armies. Civil bureaucracies (士大夫) arose to control the productive power of the states, and their military power.\n\nThe Spartan Army was one of the earliest known professional armies. Boys were sent to a barracks at the age of seven or eight to train for becoming a soldier. At the age of thirty they were released from the barracks and allowed to marry and have a family. After that, men devoted their lives to war until their retirement at the age of 60. Unlike other civilizations, whose armies had to disband during the planting and harvest seasons, the Spartan serfs or \"helots\", did the manual labor.\n\nThis allowed the Spartans to field a full-time army with a campaign season that lasted all year. The Spartan Army was largely composed of hoplites, equipped with arms and armor nearly identical to each other. Each hoplite bore the Spartan emblem and a scarlet uniform. The main pieces of this armor were a round shield, a spear and a helmet.\n\nThe Roman Army had its origins in the citizen army of the Republic, which was staffed by citizens serving mandatory duty for Rome. Reforms turned the army into a professional organization which was still largely filled by citizens, but these citizens served continuously for 25 years before being discharged.\n\nThe Romans were also noted for making use of auxiliary troops, non-Romans who served with the legions and filled roles that the traditional Roman military could not fill effectively, such as light skirmish troops and heavy cavalry. After their service in the army they were made citizens of Rome and then their children were citizens also. They were also given land and money to settle in Rome. In the Late Roman Empire, these auxiliary troops, along with foreign mercenaries, became the core of the Roman Army; moreover, by the time of the Late Roman Empire tribes such as the Visigoths were paid to serve as mercenaries.\n\nIn the earliest Middle Ages it was the obligation of every aristocrat to respond to the call to battle with his own equipment, archers, and infantry. This decentralized system was necessary due to the social order of the time, but could lead to motley forces with variable training, equipment and abilities. The more resources the noble had access to, the better his troops would be.\n\nInitially, the words \"knight\" and \"noble\" were used interchangeably as there was not generally a distinction between them. While the nobility did fight upon horseback, they were also supported by lower class citizens – and mercenaries and criminals – whose only purpose was participating in warfare because, most often than not, they held brief employment during their lord's engagement. As the Middle Ages progressed and feudalism developed in a legitimate social and economic system, knights started to develop into their own class with a minor caveat: they were still in debt to their lord. No longer primarily driven by economic need, the newly established vassal class were, instead, driven by fealty and chivalry.\n\nAs central governments grew in power, a return to the citizen armies of the classical period also began, as central levies of the peasantry began to be the central recruiting tool. England was one of the most centralized states in the Middle Ages, and the armies that fought in the Hundred Years' War were, predominantly, composed of paid professionals.\n\nIn theory, every Englishman had an obligation to serve for forty days. Forty days was not long enough for a campaign, especially one on the continent.\n\nThus the scutage was introduced, whereby most Englishmen paid to escape their service and this money was used to create a permanent army. However, almost all high medieval armies in Europe were composed of a great deal of paid core troops, and there was a large mercenary market in Europe from at least the early 12th century.\n\nAs the Middle Ages progressed in Italy, Italian cities began to rely mostly on mercenaries to do their fighting rather than the militias that had dominated the early and high medieval period in this region. These would be groups of career soldiers who would be paid a set rate. Mercenaries tended to be effective soldiers, especially in combination with standing forces, but in Italy they came to dominate the armies of the city states. This made them considerably less reliable than a standing army. Mercenary-on-mercenary warfare in Italy also led to relatively bloodless campaigns which relied as much on maneuver as on battles.\n\nIn 1439 the French legislature, known as the Estates General (French: \"états généraux\"), passed laws that restricted military recruitment and training to the king alone. There was a new tax to be raised known as the \"taille\" that was to provide funding for a new Royal army. The mercenary companies were given a choice of either joining the Royal army as \"compagnies d'ordonnance\" on a permanent basis, or being hunted down and destroyed if they refused. France gained a total standing army of around 6,000 men, which was sent out to gradually eliminate the remaining mercenaries who insisted on operating on their own. The new standing army had a more disciplined and professional approach to warfare than its predecessors. The reforms of the 1440s, eventually led to the French victory at Castillon in 1453, and the conclusion of the Hundred Years' War. By 1450 the companies were divided into the field army, known as the \"grande ordonnance\" and the garrison force known as the \"petite ordonnance\" .\n\nFirst nation states lacked the funds needed to maintain standing forces, so they tended to hire mercenaries to serve in their armies during wartime. Such mercenaries typically formed at the ends of periods of conflict, when men-at-arms were no longer needed by their respective governments.\n\nThe veteran soldiers thus looked for other forms of employment, often becoming mercenaries. Free Companies would often specialize in forms of combat that required longer periods of training that was not available in the form of a mobilized militia.\n\nAs late as the 1650s, most troops were mercenaries. However, after the 17th century, most states invested in better disciplined and more politically reliable permanent troops. For a time mercenaries became important as trainers and administrators, but soon these tasks were also taken by the state. The massive size of these armies required a large supporting force of administrators.\n\nThe newly centralized states were forced to set up vast organized bureaucracies to manage these armies, which some historians argue is the basis of the modern bureaucratic state. The combination of increased taxes and increased centralisation of government functions caused a series of revolts across Europe such as the Fronde in France and the English Civil War.\n\nIn many countries, the resolution of this conflict was the rise of absolute monarchy. Only in England and the Netherlands did representative government evolve as an alternative. From the late 17th century, states learned how to finance wars through long term low interest loans from national banking institutions. The first state to master this process was the Dutch Republic. This transformation in the armies of Europe had great social impact. The defense of the state now rested on the commoners, not on the aristocrats.\n\nHowever, aristocrats continued to monopolise the officer corps of almost all early modern armies, including their high command. Moreover, popular revolts almost always failed unless they had the support and patronage of the noble or gentry classes. The new armies, because of their vast expense, were also dependent on taxation and the commercial classes who also began to demand a greater role in society. The great commercial powers of the Dutch and English matched much larger states in military might.\n\nAs any man could be quickly trained in the use of a musket, it became far easier to form massive armies. The inaccuracy of the weapons necessitated large groups of massed soldiers. This led to a rapid swelling of the size of armies. For the first time huge masses of the population could enter combat, rather than just the highly skilled professionals.\n\nIt has been argued that the drawing of men from across the nation into an organized corps helped breed national unity and patriotism, and during this period the modern notion of the nation state was born. However, this would only become apparent after the French Revolutionary Wars. At this time, the \"levée en masse\" and conscription would become the defining paradigm of modern warfare.\n\nBefore then, however, most national armies were in fact composed of many nationalities. In Spain armies were recruited from all the Spanish European territories including Spain, Italy, Wallonia (Walloon Guards) and Germany. The French recruited some soldiers from Germany, Switzerland as well as from Piedmont. Britain recruited Hessian and Hanovrian troops until the late 18th century. Irish Catholics made careers for themselves in the armies of many Catholic European states.\n\nPrior to the English Civil War in England, the monarch maintained a personal bodyguard of Yeomen of the Guard and the Honourable Corps of Gentlemen at Arms, or \"gentlemen pensioners\", and a few locally raised companies to garrison important places such as Berwick on Tweed or Portsmouth (or Calais before it was recaptured by France in 1558).\n\nTroops for foreign expeditions were raised upon an \"ad hoc\" basis. Noblemen and professional regular soldiers were commissioned by the monarch to supply troops, raising their quotas by indenture from a variety of sources. On January 26, 1661 Charles II issued the Royal Warrant that created the genesis of what would become the British Army, although the Scottish and English Armies would remain two separate organizations until the unification of England and Scotland in 1707. The small force was represented by only a few regiments.\n\nAfter the American Revolutionary War the Continental Army was quickly disbanded as part of the Americans' distrust of standing armies, and irregular state militias became the sole ground army of the United States, with the exception of one battery of artillery guarding West Point's arsenal. Then First American Regiment was established in 1784. However, because of continuing conflict with Native Americans, it was soon realized that it was necessary to field a trained standing army. The first of these, the Legion of the United States, was established in 1791.\n\nUntil 1733 the common soldiers of Prussian Army consisted largely of peasantry recruited or impressed from Brandenburg–Prussia, leading many to flee to neighboring countries. To halt this trend, Frederick William I divided Prussia into regimental cantons. Every youth was required to serve as a soldier in these recruitment districts for three months each year; this met agrarian needs and added extra troops to bolster the regular ranks.\n\nRussian tsars before Peter I of Russia maintained professional hereditary musketeer corps (streltsy in Russian) that were highly unreliable and undisciplined. In times of war the armed forces were augmented by peasants. Peter I introduced a modern regular army built on German model, but with a new aspect: officers not necessarily from nobility, as talented commoners were given promotions that eventually included a noble title at the attainment of an officer's rank. Conscription of peasants and townspeople was based on quota system, per settlement. Initially it was based on the number of households, later it was based on the population numbers. The term of service in the 18th century was for life. In 1793 it was reduced to 25 years. In 1834 it was reduced to 20 years plus 5 years in reserve and in 1855 to 12 years plus 3 years of reserve.\n\nThe first Ottoman standing army were Janissaries. They replaced forces that mostly comprised tribal warriors (\"ghazis\") whose loyalty and morale could not always be trusted. The first Janissary units were formed from prisoners of war and slaves, probably as a result of the sultan taking his traditional one-fifth share of his army's booty in kind rather than cash.\n\nFrom the 1380s onwards, their ranks were filled under the \"devşirme\" system, where feudal dues were paid by service to the sultan. The \"recruits\" were mostly Christian youths, reminiscent of mamluks.\n\nChina organized the Manchu people into the Eight Banner system in the early 17th century. Defected Ming armies formed the Green Standard Army. These troops enlisted voluntarily and for long terms of service.\n\nConscription allowed the French Republic to form the \"La Grande Armée\", what Napoleon Bonaparte called \"the nation in arms\", which successfully battled European professional armies.\n\nConscription, particularly when the conscripts are being sent to foreign wars that do not directly affect the security of the nation, has historically been highly politically contentious in democracies.\n\nCanada also had a political dispute over conscription during World War II. Similarly, mass protests against conscription to fight the Vietnam War occurred in several countries in the late 1960s.\n\nIn developed nations, the increasing emphasis on technological firepower and better-trained fighting forces, the sheer unlikelihood of a conventional military assault on most developed nations, as well as memories of the contentiousness of the Vietnam War experience, make mass conscription unlikely in the foreseeable future.\n\nRussia, as well as many other nations, retains mainly a conscript army. There is also a very rare \"citizen army\" as used in Switzerland (see Military of Switzerland).\n\nWestern armies are usually subdivided as follows:\n\nA field army is composed of a headquarters, army troops, a variable number of corps, typically between three and four, and a variable number of divisions, also between three and four. A battle is influenced at the Field Army level by transferring divisions and reinforcements from one corps to another to increase the pressure on the enemy at a critical point. Field armies are controlled by a General or Lieutenant General.\n\nA particular army can be named or numbered to distinguish it from military land forces in general. For example, the First United States Army and the Army of Northern Virginia. In the British Army it is normal to spell out the ordinal number of an army (e.g. First Army), whereas lower formations use figures (e.g. 1st Division).\n\nArmies (as well as army groups and theaters) are large formations which vary significantly between armed forces in size, composition, and scope of responsibility.\n\nIn the Soviet Red Army and the Soviet Air Force, \"Armies\" could vary in size, but were subordinate to an Army Group-sized \"front\" in wartime. In peacetime, a Soviet army was usually subordinate to a military district. Viktor Suvorov's \"Inside the Soviet Army\" describes how Cold War era Soviet military districts were actually composed of a front headquarters and a military district headquarters co-located for administration and deception ('maskirovika') reasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "44008653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44008653", "title": "BRIGA", "text": "BRIGA\n\nBriga (\"Fight\" or \"Struggle\" in Galician language) is a Galician independentist political organization formed by young people in 2004 as a split of the Assembleia da Mocidade Independentista. It is the youth wing of the political party Nós–Unidade Popular and defines itself as a socialist, anti-patriarcal, ecologist, anti-authoritarian, anti-imperialist and internationalist organization. It also defends social monolingualism and linguistic reintegrationism in Galiza. Briga has AGIR as its reference in student unionism.\n\nBriga was created in 2004 after a split in the Assembleia da Mocidade Independentista (AMI) between the supporters of remaining an independent youth organization and the supporters of becoming the youth wing of Nós–Unidade Popular, which eventually left AMI.\n\nIn May 2005, three Briga militants were arrested for an attempt to remove a statue of the fascist military commander Millán Astray in A Coruña. At the same year the organization was almost banned when it was accused of supporting violence. Five Briga militants were arrested by the Spanish police and accused of unlawful association. They were later acquitted and the organization was fully legalized. Later in the same year, the police arrested again three Briga militants who were accused of hitting a cop during a demonstration.\n\nDuring the following years, Briga made numerous campaigns for such reasons as denouncing speculation, defending the Galician language, and protesting low wages for youth. One of the most important was the campaign in 2008 to paint a political mural each of the 366 days of that year, a goal that was finally reached. In 2009 during a Briga demonstration in Santiago de Compostela, the police charged against the demonstrators, which left several Briga militants wounded and sparked riots in the Old Quarter of the city. In 2010 and 2011 the police again broke up the traditional demonstrations of Briga on the 24th of July (the day before the Día Nacional de Galicia) in Santiago de Compostela.\n"}
{"id": "17547803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17547803", "title": "Breira (organization)", "text": "Breira (organization)\n\nBreira (full name \"Breira: A Project of Concern in Diaspora-Israel Relations\") was an organization founded to express a left-wing position on Israel. Formed in 1973, it lasted until 1977.\n\nBreira dissented from what it saw as the hard line Jewish organizational perspective that said there is no alternative in the aftermath of the Yom Kippur War. The group took the Hebrew name Breira—meaning \"alternative\"—in response to the cry of \"ein breira\", or \"there is no alternative.\"\n\nIn 1973, Rabbi Arnold Jacob Wolf served as founding chair of the movement. In its first public statement, Breira called for Israel to make territorial concessions and recognize the legitimacy of the national aspirations of the Palestinian people in order to achieve lasting peace. David Tuilin was the vice-president, Inge Gibel was the treasurer. Rabbi Gerald Sirotta was an active member. As its national chairman, Wolf stated that the name signified, \"our desire for an alternative to the intransigence of both the PLO and the several governments of Israel.\" The group proposed a two state solution.\nThat year, Breira became a national membership organization of over one hundred Reform and Conservative rabbis and a number of important American Jewish writers and intellectuals, including Steven M. Cohen, Paul Cowan, Arthur Green, Irving Howe, Paula Hyman, Jack Nusan Porter, Henry Schwarzschild, John S. Ruskay, and Milton Viorst. Jewish counter-culture youths also helped to found Breira.\n\nMichael E. Staub states, \"Breira survived four tumultuous years. Its proposals on Israeli-Diaspora Jewish relations and Palestinian nationalism generated fierce international debate over the limits of public dissent and conflict in Jewish communal life, and virtually every major American Jewish organization took a public stand on the group and what it advocated.\"\n\nThere was an overlap of leadership with Americans for Progressive Israel. A full list of members was published in \"The National Jewish Post & Opinion\", August 9, 1974. They published a journal called \"Interchange\".\n\nIn July 1976, Spiro Agnew's organization, Education for Democracy, labeled them dangerous and \"anti-Israel\", even as Agnew himself was being accused of antisemitism and anti-Israel sentiment.\n\nIn December 1976, they agreed to meet with the PLO. Wolf stipulated that they meet as private individuals and that it be understood that they were not involved in any political negotiations. The initiative was supported by Jewish intellectuals Nathan Glazer and Irving Howe. Meeting representatives included Rabbi Max Ticktin and Arthur Waskow representing Breira, and the American Jewish Congress, B'nai B'rith, and the National Council of Jewish Women. Waskow wrote a widely circulated opinion piece about speaking to the PLO.\n\nAlso in December 1976, the \"Jerusalem Post\" ran a story portraying the organization as supporting terrorists, whereupon many members left the group. On February 20, 1977, when Breira held its first national membership conference in Chevy Chase, Maryland, the convention was attacked by Jewish Defense League members.\n\nIn May 1977, the Rabbinical Assembly of Conservative Judaism blocked two members of Breira, Wolf and Rabbi Everett Gendler, from membership in the organization's executive council. The RA felt that the organization was giving aid to Israel's enemies. At that time, according to the \"New York Times\" article, Breira had 1500 members.\n\nIsaiah L. Kenen, the former American Israel Public Affairs Committee executive director, while still serving as the editor of its \"Near East Report\", helped to label the group as \"anti-Israel\", \"pro-PLO\", and \"self-hating Jews\". Kenen charged that Breira \"undermined U.S. support for Israel\". Rabbi Alexander Schindler, president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, was the only major leader of a Jewish organization to defend Breira. He called the attack on Breira a \"witch hunt\". In his book, \"The Lobby: Jewish Political Power and American Foreign Policy\", Edward Tivnan observed, \"By attacking Breira, Jewish leaders had turned over much of their power to AIPAC, Israel's most loyal agent in the U.S. and a proved enemy of dissent from Israeli policies, among Jews as well as gentiles.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7624207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7624207", "title": "Coffeeshop (Netherlands)", "text": "Coffeeshop (Netherlands)\n\nIn the Netherlands, coffeeshops are establishments where the sale of cannabis for personal consumption by the public is tolerated by the local authorities.\n\nUnder the drug policy of the Netherlands, the sale of cannabis products in small quantities is allowed by licensed \"coffeeshops\". The majority of these also serve drinks and food. \"Coffeeshops\" are not allowed to serve alcohol or other drugs, and risk closure if they are found to be selling soft drugs to minors, hard drugs or selling alcohol. The idea of licensing the sale of cannabis was introduced in the 1970s for the explicit purpose of keeping hard and soft drugs separated.\n\nIn the Netherlands, 105 of the 443 municipalities have at least one \"coffeeshop\".\n\nA Dutch judge has ruled that tourists can legally be banned from entering cannabis cafes, as part of restrictions that were implemented in 2012. City councils can choose whether to implement this ban or not. This ban is only implemented by a few municipalities in the southern Netherlands.\n\nThe city council in Maastricht allows tourists to visit coffeeshops, but all except one have made a voluntary agreement to only allow locals, local residents being defined as anyone living within a 150km radius (local people from Belgium and Germany are still allowed). The ban is not enforced in the city of Amsterdam and most other parts of the Netherlands.\n\nA Dutch coffeehouse not serving cannabis is called a \"koffiehuis\" or \"café\", though the latter term can also refer to a bar.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the selling of marijuana is \"illegal, but not punishable\", so the law is not enforced in establishments following these nationwide rules:\n\nFor some offenses, a business may be forced to close for three to six months; for others, the business may be closed permanently. All these rules are detailed in official policies.\n\n\"Coffeeshops\" are no longer allowed to sell alcohol. Most \"coffeeshops\" advertise, and the constraint is more moderating than outright prohibitive. In a gesture of discretion still technically required, many \"coffeeshops\" keep the cannabis menu below the counter, even when the cannabis itself is in more-or-less plain view. Dutch \"coffeeshops\" often fly green-yellow-red Ethiopian flags, other symbols of the Rastafari movement, or depiction of palm leaves to indicate that they sell cannabis, as a consequence of the official ban on direct advertising. This aesthetic attracts many public artists who may be paid to create murals in the \"coffeeshops\" and use the Rastafari and reggae related imagery.\n\nThere is an ongoing contradiction, as a \"coffeeshop\" is allowed to buy and sell cannabis within the legally tolerated limits, but its suppliers are not allowed to grow or import it, or to sell it to the \"coffeeshop\": \"The front door is open, but the backdoor is illegal.\" There are proposals for remedying this situation (as of January 2006), e.g. by controlled growing of cannabis to replace imports. One proponent of this is Gerd Leers, Minister for Immigration and Asylum Affairs, who, when in national parliament, was in favour of further criminalisation of cannabis, in keeping with the policies of his party, CDA, which is the strongest opponent of the drugs policy of the Netherlands. When confronted with the practical difficulties when he became mayor (and consequently head of police) he changed his mind and even became the best known advocate against the illegality at the back door, which takes up a disproportionate amount of time and money for the police, in tracking down (mostly indoor) plantations.\n\nIn 2008, the \"Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten\" (VNG, the organisation of Dutch municipalities) organised a \"wiettop\" (\"weed summit\", a wordplay on the flowery tops that cannabis is made of), attended by 33 Dutch mayors from both big and small municipalities and various political parties. Reasons for the summit were drugs tourism in border regions (the mayors of Roosendaal and Bergen op Zoom had just announced an intention to close all \"coffeeshops\"), the strong link with illegality (including laundering of money through \"coffeeshops\") and the discrepancies between the policies of the various municipalities. At this wiettop, all mayors agreed that regulation of the 'backdoor' was desirable. Rob van Gijzel, mayor of Eindhoven announced he intended to start a 'monitored pilot' of issuing licenses for the production of cannabis. But near the borders, the front door should also be (better) regulated, forbidding sales to foreigners. This would also greatly decrease the demand at the backdoor. Intentions were to discuss the results of the wiettop with the national government before the end of 2008. As of 2014, this discussion is still ongoing. A majority of mayors and users have extended the wish to allow some form of regulated, legal, cultivation for sale to the \"coffeeshops\" as this would lower the crime/violence rate, solve the backdoor issue and can generate some income. However, liberal minister Ivo Opstelten has blocked any such proposals so far and has refused to investigate it altogether. The mayors are still trying to force the minister to at least investigate the situation and allow a pilot to be conducted.\n\nIn a survey among mayors by \"NRC Handelsblad\" at the time of the wiettop (with a 60% response) 80% of the mayors were in favour of 'regulating the backdoor' (i.e. making it legal). However, only 18% were in favour of making the market for soft drugs completely free. 22% were in favour of reducing the number of \"coffeeshops\" and 10% want to close them all. Strikingly, this has little to do with the view of their political party, from which NRC Handelsblad concludes it is based on practical considerations, rather than ideological.\n\nIn 2008, the Dutch government decided that \"coffeeshops\" would no longer be allowed within a radius of 250 m of schools. In Amsterdam, this means the closing of 43 more \"coffeeshops\" (in preceding years the number had already been reduced from 350 to 228). Mayor Job Cohen had preferred no change but complied reluctantly. He pointed out that \"coffeeshops\" are already not allowed to sell to customers aged under 18, so the policy would not have much effect.\n\nToward the end of 2013, Amsterdam mayor Eberhard van der Laan said that in 2014, some of the \"coffeeshops\" near schools will be forced to close. There was some discussion on whether they will have to completely close or only during school hours, being able to conduct business after 18:00 and on weekends, should this become law.\n\nEach municipality has a \"coffeeshop\" policy. Some do not allow any; most of these municipalities are either controlled by strict Protestant parties, or are bordering Belgium and Germany and do not wish to receive \"drug tourism\" from those countries. A 19 March 2005 article in the Observer noted that the number of Dutch cannabis \"coffeeshops\" had dropped from 1,500 to 750 over the previous five years, largely due to pressure from the conservative coalition government. The \"no-growth\" policies of many Dutch cities affect new licensing. This policy slowly reduces the number of \"coffeeshops\", since no one can open a new one after a closure. Most municipalities have designated a certain zone (e.g. around schools and high schools) where \"coffeeshops\" are not allowed, which may be from a hundred metres to several kilometres.\n\nThe municipality of Terneuzen has put up road signs showing the way to the \"coffeeshops\" and decided to restrict local by-laws for cannabis from May 2009.\nIn Maastricht the \"coffeeshops\" are forbidden for foreign tourists. A controversial measure to introduce a \"wietpas\" (Dutch) or \"weed-pass\" membership system — pushed primarily by Christian political parties within the Dutch coalition government – has been proposed; this pass would restrict \"coffeeshop\" cannabis sales to residents of the Netherlands with a membership card only. The ban for foreign tourists started in three southern provinces on 1 May, and is due to go nationwide by the end of 2012. Despite strong protests from \"coffeeshop\" owners, a judge in the Netherlands has upheld a new law to ban foreign tourists from entering cannabis cafes. Lawyers representing the \"coffeeshop\" owners have promised to appeal the ruling, and protests are continuing. Municipalities do have some form of control, for example \"coffeeshops\" in the city of Amsterdam still sell to foreigners without any discrimination or extra demands/limitations.\nSmoking joints has been common in cannabis \"coffeeshops\". Since 1 July 2008 there is a tobacco smoking ban in the Netherlands which prohibits smoking tobacco in all hotels, restaurants and cafés. Therefore, it is now illegal to smoke joints containing tobacco in \"coffeeshops\". Although bongs and pure cannabis joints can still be smoked inside the premises, smoking cigarettes or joints containing tobacco is only allowed in a separate smoking room. Most \"coffeeshops\" still sell mixed joints/spliffs, i.e. those with tobacco mixed with cannabis, and have made customers smoke in upstairs or downstairs rooms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52638318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52638318", "title": "Common commercial policy", "text": "Common commercial policy\n\nA common commercial policy is several states co-ordinateing some or all aspects of their trade policy.\n\nIt is sometimes agreed by treaty within a customs union. In the case of the European Union, a form of the EU's common commercial policy has been in place since 1957. \n\nA common commercial policy is also an aim of Mercosur.\n"}
{"id": "23967217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23967217", "title": "Communications data", "text": "Communications data\n\nCommunications data (sometimes referred to as traffic data or metadata) concerns information about communication.\n\nCommunications data is a part of a message that should be distinguished from the content of the message. It contains data on the communication’s origin, destination, route, time, date, size, duration, or type of underlying service.\n\n"}
{"id": "56024406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56024406", "title": "Czech Republic Government Vote of No Confidence, 2009", "text": "Czech Republic Government Vote of No Confidence, 2009\n\nThe Parliament of the Czech Republic vote of no confidence in the Czech Republic government of the Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek was held on 24 March 2009. It was the first time since dissolution of Czechoslovakia that Czech government lost vote of No Confidence. Vote was held during Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2009.\n\n101 MPs voted for the motion of Noc Confidence. Some MPs of governing coalition voted for the motion. It includes Vlastimil Tlustý, Jan Schwippel, Věra Jakubková and Olga Zubová. Independent cabinet of Jan Fischer was appointed in May 2009.\n"}
{"id": "14271484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14271484", "title": "Drainage law", "text": "Drainage law\n\nDrainage law is a specific area of water law related to drainage of surface water on real property. It is particularly important in areas where freshwater is scarce, flooding is common, or water is in high demand for agricultural or commercial purposes.\n\nIn the United States, regulation of drainage is typically done on the state and local level. In addition to whatever statutes or local ordinances may be in effect in a given locality, there are three basic legal doctrines which the various state courts recognize.\n\nIn the state of Michigan, drainage law is so important that counties elect a drain commissioner to oversee water resources.\n\nThe common enemy doctrine is a rule derived from English common law. It holds that since surface water is a \"common enemy\" to landowners, each landowner has the right to alter the drainage pattern of his land (for example by building dikes or drainage channels) without regard for the effects on neighboring parcels, as long as that water flows to where it otherwise would have naturally flowed. Typically, a landowner can capture surface water (e.g. by rain barrels or dams) as well, and lower landowners will not have a cause of action unless the diversion is malicious. This rule is followed by approximately half the U.S. states, although some states have modified the doctrine to hold landowners liable for negligent damage to the parcels belonging to neighboring landowners.\n\nThe civil law rule (so named because it is derived from the civil law systems of France and Spain) is effectively the opposite of the common enemy doctrine. It holds that the owner of a lower parcel of land must accept the natural drainage from those parcels above his, and cannot alter the drainage pattern of his own land to increase the drainage flow onto parcels lower than his own. For this reason, this rule is sometimes referred to as the \"natural flow rule\".\n\nApplication of the civil law rule in its purest form would inhibit the development of land, since virtually every improvement on a parcel would alter the natural drainage. For this reason, this rule has been modified in those jurisdictions that use it, to permit reasonable changes in natural flow, often weighing the competing interests of neighboring landholders with the benefit of the development of the parcel.\n\nThe reasonable use rule presents an alternative to both the common enemy doctrine and the civil law rule. It allows a landowner to make \"reasonable\" alteration to the drainage pattern of his parcel, with liability only occurring when the alteration causes \"unreasonable\" harm toward neighboring parcels. Judicial mitigation of the common enemy doctrine and civil law rule often results in an approximation of the reasonable use rule.\n\nBecause the reasonable use rule presents a subjective standard, courts will often employ a balancing test to determine whether a landowner is liable to neighbors for alteration of drainage. For example, under the Restatement of Torts, the test was:\n\n\nIn the United Kingdom the Land Drainage Act 1991 decrees drainage of land in England and Wales, but does not cover sewerage and water supplies but the actual process of draining land itself. The act defines who is responsible for various aspects of land drainage and the different areas in which the law applies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38586", "title": "Esperanto symbols", "text": "Esperanto symbols\n\nSince the earliest days of Esperanto, the colour green has been used as a symbol of mutual recognition, and it appears prominently in all Esperanto symbols.\n\nThe \"Verda Stelo\" () was first proposed in an 1892 article in \"La Esperantisto\" for use as a symbol of mutual recognition among Esperantists.\n\nIn a letter to \"The British Esperantist\" in 1911, L. L. Zamenhof, the creator of Esperanto, wrote: \"It seems to me, that my attention was drawn to the color green by Mr. Richard H. Geoghegan and from that time I began to publish all of my works with green covers . . . Looking at one of my pamphlets that I had entirely by chance printed with a green cover, he pointed out that this was the color of his homeland, Ireland; at that time it came to me, that we could certainly look at that color as a symbol of HOPE. About the five-pointed star, it seems to me, that at first Mr. de Beaufront had it imprinted on his grammar [of Esperanto]. I liked that and I adopted it as a symbol. Afterward by association of ideas, the star appeared with a green color.\"\n\nThe Esperanto flag is composed of a green background with a white square (canton) in the upper lefthand corner, which in turn contains a green star. The green field symbolizes hope, the white symbolizes peace and neutrality, and the five-pointed star represents the five continents (Europe, America, Asia, Oceania, Africa). The flag was created by the Esperanto Club of Boulogne-sur-Mer, initially for their own use, but was adopted as the flag of the worldwide Esperanto movement by a decision of the first World Esperanto Congress, which took place in 1905 in that town.\n\nBy recommendation of the board of the Universal Esperanto Association, the flag should have the following proportions: The ratio of the width of the flag to the height of the flag to a side of the white square should be 3 to 2 to 1. The ratio of a side of the white square to the radius of a circle enclosing the star should be 10 to 3.5.\n\nSome Esperanto speakers consider the traditional flag too nationalistic for an international language, so many organizations no longer recommend its use and, instead, use the jubilea simbolo (\"jubilee symbol\", two green \"E\"s facing each other—or alternatively a Latin-alphabet \"E\" facing a Cyrillic-alphabet \"Э\", the first letter of \"Эсперанто\", the Russian name for Esperanto—on a white field). This symbol was created in 1987 by a Brazilian Esperantist to mark the centenary of the creation of Esperanto. On the other hand, this new symbol is derogatively called \"the melon\" () by some.\n\nMost Esperantists, however, continue to hold the \"verda stelo\" dear as a symbol of international or supranational solidarity, and regard the preference of one symbol over another as a purely personal choice. At most Esperanto congresses, all three main symbols can be seen in use on displays or being worn as badges.\n\nSometimes, Esperanto travelers will display the flag, wear a badge with one of the above symbols, or even wear green clothes, to make themselves known to other Esperanto speakers.\n\nIn 1905, delegates to the first conference of Esperantists at Boulogne-sur-Mer, unanimously approved a version, differing from the modern only by the superimposition of an \"E\" over the green star. Other variants include that for Christian Esperantists, with a white Christian cross superimposed upon the green star, and that for Leftists, with the color of the field changed from green to red.\n\nOn December 15, 2009, the Esperanto flag flew on the Google home search page \"Google\" logo to mark L. L. Zamenhof's 150th birthday. The flagstaff was the \"L\" of the search-company name.\n\nOne hypothesis of the red star as a symbol of socialism relates to an alleged encounter between Leon Trotsky and Nikolai Krylenko. Krylenko, an Esperantist, was wearing a green-star lapel badge; Trotsky enquired as to its meaning and received an explanation that each arm of the star represented one of the five traditional continents. On hearing this, he specified that a similar red star should be worn by soldiers of the Red Army.\n\n"}
{"id": "46214403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46214403", "title": "Flossie Bailey", "text": "Flossie Bailey\n\nKatherine \"Flossie\" Bailey (1895–February 6, 1952) was a civil rights and anti-lynching activist from Indiana. She established a local chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Marion, Indiana, in 1918 and became especially active fighting for justice and equality following the double lynching of Thomas Shipp and Abram Smith in 1930. As president of the Indiana NAACP, Bailey was pivotal in lobbying for passage of a statewide anti-lynching law in Indiana in 1931 and advocated for a similar bill at the national level. She was also a recipient of the national NAACP's Madam C. J. Walker Medal.\n\nKatherine Harvey, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Harvey, was born in Kokomo, Indiana, in 1895. Known as \"Flossie\", she grew up in Kokomo and attended Kokomo High School.\n\nFlossie married Walter T. Bailey, a physician, in 1917. The couple resided in Marion, Indiana. Doctor Bailey died on February 10, 1950. Their only surviving child was a son, named Walter Charles Bailey.\n\nWhile living in Marion, Bailey also became actively involved in the Marion community. She was a member of the city's Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church congregation.\n\nBailey spent her adult life seeking equality and justice as a civil rights activist. In 1918 Bailey established the Marion branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). Initially it did not receive much support. In June 1930 it had 96 members; however, after the Marion community was the site of a lynching in August 1930, the local chapter's membership increase to 155 members by the end of 1930.\n\nOn August 7, 1930, a mob broke into the Grant County, Indiana, jail in Marion, dragged two African American men, Thomas Shipp and Abram Smith, to the Courthouse Square and lynched (hanged) them from a tree. Bailey, who was the president of the local branch of the NAACP, tried to obtain police protection for the jailed men prior to the lynching. Afterwards, she was actively involved in organizing a Hoosier delegation of NAACP members to speak to Indiana governor Harry Leslie and persuade him to intervene in the investigation of the men's murders.\n\nBailey and a number of others worked hard to obtain a fair investigation into the double lynching. Despite objections from those in the Marion community who wanted to forget about the event, Bailey and the NAACP played an important role in seeking justice for the murders of Shipp and Smith, as well as to restore calm in Marion. Two men were indicted and went on trial for the lynching, but neither one was found guilty of the crime and no one was ever punished for the deaths of Shipp and Smith.\n\nIn 1930, Bailey was elected president of the Indiana NAACP and helped plan its second annual meeting. The Bailey home in Marion became the Indiana headquarters for the NAACP. The national organization recognized Bailey's efforts by awarding her the Madam C. J. Walker Medal for \"the person who has done the best work in the NAACP during the year.\"\n\nBailey worked to ensure nothing like the lynching in Marion would occur again. She lobbied the Indiana General Assembly to pass stricter anti-lynching laws. When opponents to the bill rejected many of the safety measures, Bailey organized a statewide effort, calling on chapters of the NAACP, Optimist Clubs, Exchange Clubs, and Democratic organizations to lobby state legislators. Bailey's efforts were successful and the governor signed a stricter anti-lynching law in March 1931. Once the Indiana bill became law, Bailey began lobbying for a national anti-lynching law, as well as for the fair treatment of African Americans in other sectors of American life. Bailey especially focused on fighting to end the segregation of schools, hospitals, and other public spaces such as movie theaters.\n\nBailey and the NAACP struggled during the years of the Great Depression. Her husband, who suffered a stroke, closed his medical practice in Marion around 1940, and the couple moved to Indianapolis.\n\nBailey died in Indianapolis on February 6, 1952. As an activist and president of the Indiana NAACP in the 1930s, her leadership helped establish a foundation for the civil rights movement of the 1950s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1270497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1270497", "title": "Freedom of movement", "text": "Freedom of movement\n\nFreedom of movement, mobility rights, or the right to travel is a human rights concept encompassing the right of individuals to travel from place to place within the territory of a country, and to leave the country and return to it. The right includes not only visiting places, but changing the place where the individual resides or works.\n\nSuch a right is provided in the constitutions of numerous states, and in documents reflecting norms of international law. For example, Article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights asserts that:\n\nSome people and organizations advocate an extension of the freedom of movement to include a freedom of movement – or migration – between the countries as well as within the countries. The freedom of movement is restricted in a variety of ways by various governments and may even vary within the territory of a single country. Such restrictions are generally based on public health, order, or safety justifications and postulate that the right to these conditions preempts the notion of freedom of movement.\n\nRestrictions on international travel on people (immigration or emigration) are commonplace. Within countries, freedom of travel is often more limited for minors, and penal law can modify this right as it applies to persons charged with or convicted of crimes (for instance, parole, probation, registration). In some countries, freedom of movement has historically been limited for women, and for members of disfavored racial and social groups. Circumstances, both legal and practical, may operate to limit this freedom. For example, a nation that is generally permissive with respect to travel may restrict that right during time of war.\n\nRestrictions may include the following:\n\n\nIn some jurisdictions, questions have arisen as to the extent to which a private owner of land can exclude certain persons from land used for public purposes, such as a shopping mall or a park. There is also a rule of law that a landowner whose property is completely boxed in by that of other private landowners shall have the right to cross private land if that is necessary to reach a public thoroughfare. The concept is also used as the basis for enacting laws to prevent alternate use of streets, roads and right-of-ways from blocking or restricting freedom of movement such as block parties and playing basketball.\n\nThere is a converse duty for a private person not to impede the free movement of another. Where a person prevents another from freely leaving an area, either by physically imprisoning them or by threats, that person may be subject to a lawsuit for false imprisonment, and to criminal charges for kidnapping.\n\nParents or other legal guardians are typically able to restrict the movements of minor children under their care, and of other adults who have been legally deemed incompetent to govern their own movement. Employers may legally set some restrictions on the movements of employees, and terminate employment if those restrictions are breached.\n\nGovernments may generally sharply restrict the freedom of movement of persons who have been convicted of crimes, most conspicuously in the context of imprisonment. Restrictions may also be placed on convicted criminals who are on probation or have been released on parole. Persons who have been charged with crimes and have been released on bail may also be prohibited from traveling. A material witness may also be denied the right to travel.\n\nGovernments sometimes also restrict access to disaster-stricken areas, or to places where public health threats exist. Where an individual presents a health threat due to infection with a contagious disease, the government may quarantine that person, restricting their movement for the safety of others.\n\nThough travelling to and from countries is generally permitted (with some limitations), most governments restrict the length of time that temporary visitors may stay in the country. This can be dependent on country of citizenship and country travelled to among other factors. In some instances (such as those of refugees who are at risk of immediate bodily harm on return to their country or those seeking legal asylum), indefinite stay may be allowed on humanitarian grounds, but in most other cases, stay is generally limited. One notable exception to this is the Schengen Area, where citizens of any country in the EU generally enjoy indefinite stay in other EU countries.\n\nFurthermore, restrictions on the right to relocate or live in certain areas of a country have been imposed in several countries, most prominently China.\n\nIn a child custody dispute, a court may place restrictions on the movement of a minor child, thereby restricting the ability of the parents of that child to travel with their child.\n\nThe Visa Restrictions Index ranks countries based on the number of other countries its citizens are free to enter without visa. Most countries in the world require visas or some other form of entrance permit for non-citizens to enter their territory. Those who enter countries in defiance of regulations requiring such documentation are often subject to imprisonment or deportation.\n\nMost countries require that their citizens leave the country on a valid passport, travel document issued by an international organization or, in some cases, identification document. Conditions of issuance and the governments' authority to deny issuance of a passport vary from country to country.\n\nUnder certain circumstances, countries may issue travel documents (such as laissez-passer) to aliens, that is, to persons other than their own citizens.\n\nHaving a passport issued does not guarantee the right to exit the country. A person may be prohibited to exit a country on a number of reasons, such as being under investigation as a suspect, serving a criminal sentence, being a debtor in default, or posing a threat to national security. This applies to aliens as well.\n\nIn some countries prohibition to leave may take the form of revocation of a previously issued passport. For example, the United States of America may revoke passports at will.\n\nSome countries, such as the former Soviet Union, further required that their citizens, and sometimes foreign travelers, obtain an exit visa to be allowed to leave the country.\n\nCurrently, some countries require that foreign citizens have valid visas upon leaving the country if they needed one to enter. For example, a person who overstayed a visa in Czech Republic may need to obtain an exit visa. In Russia, the inconvenience goes even further as the legislation there does not formally recognize residency permits as valid visas; thus, foreign citizens lawfully residing in Russia need to obtain \"exit-entry\" visas in order to do a trip abroad. This, in particular, affects foreign students, whose original entry visas expire by the time they return home.\n\nCitizens of the People's Republic of China who are residents of the mainland are required to apply for exit and entry endorsements in order to enter the Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau (and SAR residents require a Home Return Permit to visit the mainland). Since 2016, residents of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region have been required to deposit their passports with the police. Each trip abroad must be approved by the government, which is more difficult for members of the Uyghur ethnic group.\n\nSaudi Arabia and Qatar require all resident foreigners, but not citizens, to obtain an exit visa before leaving the country.\n\nWhen Augustus established the Roman Empire in 27 BC, he assumed monarchical powers over the new Roman province of Egypt and was able to prohibit senators from traveling there without his permission. However, Augustus would also allow more liberty to travel at times. During a famine in 6 AD, he attempted to relieve strain on the food supply by granting senators the liberty to leave Rome and to travel to wherever they wished.\n\nIn England, in 1215, the right to travel was enshrined in Article 42 of the Magna Carta:\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, a measure instituted by Joseph II in 1781 had permitted serfs freedom of movement. The serfs of Russia were not given their personal freedom until Alexander II's Edict of Emancipation of 1861. At the time, most of the inhabitants of Russia, not only the serfs but also townsmen and merchants, were deprived of freedom of movement and confined to their places of residence.\n\nAfter the end of hostilities in World War II, the United Nations was established on October 24, 1945. The new international organization recognized the importance of freedom of movement through documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966). Article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the U.N. General Assembly, reads,\n\nArticle 12 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights incorporates this right into treaty law:\n\nThe ICCPR entered into force for the initial ratifying states on 23 March 1976, and for additional states following their ratification. In 1999, the U.N. Human Rights Committee, which is charged with interpreting the treaty, issued its guidelines for Article 12 of the ICCPR in its \"General Comment No. 27: Freedom of Movement\".\n\nWhile the treaty sets out the freedom of movement in broad and absolute terms, part four of Article 12 of the ICCPR admits that these freedoms may be restricted for a variety of reasons in the public interest. This clause is often cited to justify a wide variety of movement restrictions by almost every country that is party to it.\n\nThe military regime in Burma has been criticized for allegations of restrictions to freedom of movement. These include restrictions on movement by political dissidents, women, and migrant workers.\n\nIn the mainland of the People's Republic of China, the Hukou system of household registration makes internal migration difficult, especially for rural residents to move to urban areas. Many people move to places in which they don't have a local \"hukou\", but local governments can restrict services like subsidized schooling, subsidized housing, and health insurance to those with local \"hukou\". The system was used as far back as the Han Dynasty for tax collection, and more recently in the People's Republic to control urbanization. The Hukou system has also lead many municipal governments to disregard the welfare of migrant workers as measures of wellbeing and economic progress are based almost exclusively on conditions for those with a local \"hukou.\"\n\nAlso, Chinese citizens are allowed to go from the mainland to Hong Kong or Macau only for travel, but not for residence unless they obtain the \"one-way permit' from Chinese authorities. Currently, the issuance of the \"one-way permit\" is limited to 150 per day.\n\nThe Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy claimed in 2000 that people in Tibet had to promise not to criticize the Chinese Communist Party before receiving official permission to leave for India or Nepal. Additionally, it alleged that people of Han descent in Tibet have a far easier time acquiring the necessary permits to live in urban areas than ethnic Tibetans do.\n\nAs a part of the one country, two systems policy proposed by Deng Xiaoping and accepted by the British and Portuguese governments, the special administrative regions (SARs) of Hong Kong and Macau retained separate border control and immigration policies with the rest of the PRC. Chinese nationals had to gain permission from the government before travelling to Hong Kong or Macau, but this requirement was officially abolished for each SAR after its respective handover. Since then, restrictions imposed by the SAR governments have been the limiting factor on travel.\n\nUnder Basic Law of Hong Kong article 31, \"Hong Kong residents shall have freedom of movement within the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and freedom of immigration to other countries and regions. They shall have freedom to travel and to enter or leave the Region. Unless restrained by law, holders of valid travel documents shall be free to leave the Region without special authorization.\"\n\n\nIsraeli , which has quasi-constitutional status, declares that \"there shall be no deprivation or restriction of the liberty of a person by imprisonment, arrest, extradition or otherwise\"; that \"all persons are free to leave Israel\"; and that \"every Israeli national has the right of entry into Israel from abroad\". In practice, \"withhold departure from the country\" orders are liberally issued by Israel courts, including on non-custodial fathers who are not in arrears in child support. In March 2012 a corruption scandal exposed the quasi-legal reality of Israeli passport control, as two officials were arrested for allegedly having taken bribes to circumvent court ordered \"no exit\" travel abroad bans. Freedoms of movement in Israel are not similarly protected and a source of much controversy in the Palestinian West Bank and, to a lesser extent, Gaza Strip.\n\nThe Constitution provides for the freedom of movement within the country, foreign travel, immigration, and repatriation, and the Government generally respects them in practice. Citizens have the right to travel freely both within the country and abroad, to change their place of residence, to emigrate, and to repatriate voluntarily. Citizenship may be forfeited by naturalization in a foreign country or by failure of persons born with dual nationality to elect citizenship at the required age. The law does not permit forced exile, and it is not used.\nKuwait refuses admission to holders of Israeli passports as part of its boycott against Israel. In 2015 Kuwait Airways cancelled its route between New York and London following a decision by the U.S. Department of Transportation that the airline had engaged in discrimination by refusing to sell tickets to Israeli citizens. Direct flights between the US and Kuwait are not affected by this decision as Israeli citizens are not allowed to enter Kuwait.\n\nTravel to North Korea is tightly controlled. The standard route to and from North Korea is by plane or train via Beijing. Transport directly to and from South Korea was possible on a limited scale from 2003 until 2008, when a road was opened (bus tours, no private cars). Freedom of Movement within North Korea is also limited, as citizens are not allowed to move around freely inside their country.\n\nSyrian citizens are prohibited from exiting the country without special visas issued by government authorities.\n\nThe Syrian Constitution states \"Every citizen has the right to liberty of movement within the territory of the State unless prohibited therefrom under the terms of a court order or public health and safety regulations.\". In its mandated report on human rights to the United Nations, Syria has argued that because of this constitutional protection: \"in Syria, no laws or measures restrict the liberty of movement or choice of residence of citizens\". Legislative Decree No. 29 of 1970 regulates the right of foreigners to enter, reside in and leave the territory of Syria, and is the controlling document regarding the issuance of passports, visas, and diplomatic travel status. The document specifically states \"The latter provision is intended merely to ensure that our country is not the final destination of stateless persons.\"\n\nHowever, Syria has been criticized by groups, including Amnesty International for restrictions to freedom of movement. In August 2005, Amnesty International released an \"appeal case\", citing several freedom of movement restrictions including exit restriction without explanation, refusal to issue passports to political dissidents, detention, restriction from entering certain structures, denial of travel documents, and denial of nationality. The United Nations Human Rights Committee issues regular reports on human rights in Syria, including freedom of movement.\n\nThere are certain restrictions on movement placed on Women, for example Syrian law now allows males to place restrictions on certain female relatives. Women over the age of 18 are entitled to travel outside of Syria, however a woman's husband may file a request for his wife to be banned from leaving the country. From July 2013, in certain villages in Syria (namely Mosul, Raqqu and Deir el-Zour), ISIS no longer allow women to appear in public alone, they must be accompanied by a male relative/guardian known as a mahram.\n\nThe restriction of the movement of Israelis and Palestinians in Israel and the West Bank by Israel and the Palestinian National Authority is one issue in the Israel-Palestine conflict. In the mid-1990s, with the implementation of the Oslo Accords and the division of the West Bank into three separate administrative divisions, Israeli freedom of movement was limited by law. Israel says that the regime of restrictions is necessary to protect Israelis both in Israel proper and in the West Bank.\n\nCheckpoints exist throughout and at entrances and exits to the West Bank that limit the movement of non-Israelis on the basis of nationality, age, and sex among other criteria. While many such checkpoints are static, many are random, or move around frequently. Full closures of the West Bank to any entrance or exit are frequent, generally taking place on Jewish Holidays.\n\nResidents of Gaza are only allowed to travel to the West Bank in exceptional humanitarian cases, particularly urgent medical cases, but \"not\" including marriage. It is possible to travel from the West Bank to Gaza only if the person pledges to permanently relocating to Gaza. Gazan residents are only admitted to Israel in exceptional humanitarian cases. Since 2008, they are not allowed to live or stay in Israel because of marriage with an Israeli. Israelis who want to visit their partner in Gaza need permits for a few months, and Israelis can visit their first‐degree relatives in Gaza only in exceptional humanitarian cases.\n\nFreedom of movement laws and restrictions vary from country to country on the African continent, however several international agreements beyond those prescribed by the United Nations govern freedom of movement within the African continent. The African Charter on Human and People's Rights Article 12 outlines various forms of movement-related freedoms. It asserts:\nThe ideals of the Charter are, in principle, supported by all signatory governments, though they are not rigorously followed. There have been attempts to have intellectuals recognized as having special freedom of movement rights, to protect their intellectual ideals as they cross national boundaries.\n\nBeyond the African Charter on Human and People's Rights, the Constitution of South Africa also contains express freedoms of movement, in section 21 of . Freedom of movement is guaranteed to \"everyone\" in regard to leaving the country but is limited to citizens when entering it or staying in it. Citizens also have a right to a passport, critical to full exercise of the freedom of movement internationally.\n\nWithin the European Union, residents are guaranteed the right to freely move within the EU's internal borders by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the European Parliament and Council Directive 2004/38/EC of 29 April 2004. Union residents are given the right to enter any member state for up to three months with a valid passport or identity card. If the citizen does not have a travel document, the member state must afford them every facility in obtaining the documents. Under no circumstances can an entry or exit visa be required. There are some security limitations and public policy restrictions on extended stays by EU residents. For instance, a member state may require that persons register their presence in the country \"within a reasonable and non-discriminatory period of time\". In general, however, the burden of notification and justification lies with the state. EU citizens also earn a right to permanent residence in member states they have maintained an uninterrupted five-year period of legal residence. This residency cannot be subject to any conditions, and is lost only by two successive years absence from the host nation. Family members of EU residents, in general, also acquire the same freedom of travel rights as the resident they accompany, though they may be subject to a short-stay visa requirement. Furthermore, no EU citizen may be declared permanently \"persona non grata\" within the European Union, or permanently excluded from entry by any member state.\n\nThe freedom of movement for workers is a policy chapter of the acquis communautaire of the European Union. It is part of the free movement of persons and one of the four economic freedoms: free movement of goods, services, labour and capital. Article 45 TFEU (ex 39 and 48) states that:\n\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the Thirteenth Amendment was adopted in November 1992 by referendum in order to ensure freedom of movement in the specific circumstance of a woman traveling abroad to receive an abortion. However, with the successful repeal of the Eighth Amendment of the Irish Constitution on the 25th of May 2018, which ensures the right to an abortion, this previous amendment is no longer necessary.\n\nIn Italy, freedom of movement is enshrined in Article 16 of the Constitution, which states:\n\n\"Every citizen has the right to reside and travel freely in any part of the country, except for such general limitations as may be established by law for reasons of health or security. No restriction may be imposed for political reasons. Every citizen is free to leave the territory of the republic and return to it, notwithstanding any legal obligations.\"\nUniquely, the Norwegian special territory of Svalbard is an entirely visa-free zone under the terms of the Svalbard Treaty.\n\nPolish nationals holding dual citizenship that despite Poland's joining of the Schengen Area, they are obliged to use Polish travel documents (a Polish passport or, within the European Union, a Polish National ID card (Dowód osobisty), or they will not be allowed to leave Poland by the Polish government. The latest such incident is recorded as of January 4, 2012.\n\nPoland requires Polish citizens including foreign citizens who are or can be claimed or those who can be suspected to be Polish citizens to enter and depart Poland using a Polish passport.\n\nThe Russian Constitution in article 27 states that \"1. Everyone who is lawfully in the territory of the Russian Federation has the right to freely move and choose a place of stay or living. 2. Everyone may freely exit the territory of the Russian Federation. [Every] citizen of the Russian Federation may return onto the territory of the Russian Federation without hindrance.\"\n\nFreedom of movement of Russian citizens around the country is legally limited in a number of situations, including the following:\n\nSince the abandonment of propiska system in 1993, new legislation on registration was passed. Unlike propiska which was a permit to reside in a certain area, registration as worded in the law is merely notification. However, administrative procedures developed \"in implementation\" of the registration law imposed such conditions on registration which effectively made it depending on the landlord's assent. As landlords, for various reasons, are not interested to register tenants or guests in their properties, many of internal migrants are prevented from executing their legal duty to register. Before 2004, it was common for police to fine those having failed to register within 3 working days at a place of stay. In 2004, the maximum permitted registration lag was raised to 90 days thus making such a prosecution practically infeasible. Thus now there are no obstacles to movement of citizens per se. Nevertheless, since registration is the primary source of one's address for legal purposes, many internal migrants still are de facto second-class citizens deprived of their right to vote, obtain a passport or driver's license etc.\n\nThe Russian citizens' right to leave Russia may be legally suspended on a number of reasons including:\n\nRussia does not recognize (though doesn't forbid) dual citizenship. Russian citizens possessing foreign citizenship may not enter or leave Russia on foreign travel documents. Russian citizens living abroad may get stuck in Russia if they need to obtain a passport while on visit to Russia; the legal term for issuance of a passport may be up to 4 months under some circumstances. Russian consular offices do not grant visas to foreign passport holders who are (or are suspected to be) Russian citizens.\n\nBritons have long enjoyed a comparatively high level of freedom of movement. Apart from Magna Carta, the protection of rights and liberties in this field has tended to come from the common law rather than formal constitutional codes and conventions, and can be changed by Parliament without the protection of being entrenched in a constitution.\n\nIt has been proposed that a range of specific state restrictions on freedom of movement should be prohibited under a new or comprehensively amended Human Rights Act. The new basic legal prohibitions could include: road tolls and other curbs on freedom of travel and private vehicle ownership and use; personal identity cards (internal passports, citizenship licenses) that must be produced on demand for individuals to access public services and facilities; and legal requirements for citizens to register changes of address or partner with the state authorities.\n\nThe Constitution of Canada contains mobility rights expressly in section 6 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The rights specified include the right of citizens to leave and enter the country and the right of both citizens and permanent residents to move within its boundaries. However, the subsections protect poorer regions' affirmative action programs that favour residents who have lived in the region for longer. Section 6 mobility rights are among the select rights that cannot be limited by the Charter's notwithstanding clause.\n\nCanada's Social Union Framework Agreement, an agreement between governments made in 1999, affirms that \"All governments believe that the freedom of movement of Canadians to pursue opportunities anywhere in Canada is an essential element of Canadian citizenship.\" In the Agreement, it is pledged that \"Governments will ensure that no new barriers to mobility are created in new social policy initiatives.\"\n\nFreedom of movement under United States law is governed primarily by the Privileges and Immunities Clause of the United States Constitution which states, \"The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.\" As far back as the circuit court ruling in \"Corfield v. Coryell,\" 6 Fed. Cas. 546 (1823), freedom of movement has been judicially recognized as a fundamental Constitutional right. In \"Paul v. Virginia,\" 75 U.S. 168 (1869), the Court defined freedom of movement as \"right of free ingress into other States, and egress from them.\" However, the Supreme Court did not invest the federal government with the authority to protect freedom of movement. Under the \"privileges and immunities\" clause, this authority was given to the states, a position the Court held consistently through the years in cases such as \"Ward v. Maryland,\" 79 U.S. 418 (1871), the \"Slaughter-House Cases,\" 83 U.S. 36 (1873) and \"United States v. Harris,\" 106 U.S. 629 (1883).\n\nInternationally, § 215 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (currently codified at 8 U.S.C. § 1185), it is unlawful for a United States citizen to enter or exit the United States without a valid United States passport.\n\nNo federal Australian legislation guarantees freedom of movement within the Commonwealth of Australia. Various Australian laws restrict the right on various grounds. Until 1 July 2016, Norfolk Island had immigration controls separate from those of the remainder of Australia and a permit was required for Australian citizens or residents to enter. In August 2014 the Australian Commonwealth Government proposed regulating the rights of Australian citizens to travel to and from designated areas associated with terrorism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "137966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=137966", "title": "Freeland, Washington", "text": "Freeland, Washington\n\nFreeland is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) on Whidbey Island in Island County, Washington, United States. At the time of the 2010 census the population was 2,045. The town received its name based on its origins as a socialist commune in the early 1900s: in the eyes of its founders, the land of the town was literally to be free for all people. Some of the first settlers were veterans of a prior experiment in socialism, the nearby Equality Colony.\n\nFreeland is located on the southern part of Whidbey Island at (48.015556, -122.533622). The community sits on a mile-wide isthmus between the south end of Holmes Harbor, a inlet of Saratoga Passage, and Mutiny Bay on Admiralty Inlet. \n\nWashington State Route 525 passes through Freeland, leading east to Clinton and northwest to SR 20 at Keystone. Oak Harbor is north of Freeland via SR 525 and SR 20.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the Freeland CDP has a total area of , all of it land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 1,313 people, 561 households, and 379 families residing in the CDP. The population density was 390.4 people per square mile (150.9/km). There were 664 housing units at an average density of 197.4/sq mi (76.3/km). The racial makeup of the CDP was 94.36% White, 0.46% African American, 0.99% Native American, 0.84% Asian, 0.08% Pacific Islander, 0.38% from other races, and 2.89% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2.67% of the population.\n\nThere were 561 households out of which 27.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 53.3% were married couples living together, 11.1% had a female householder with no husband present, and 32.4% were non-families. 26.0% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.34 and the average family size was 2.79.\n\nIn the CDP, the population was spread out with 21.9% under the age of 18, 4.8% from 18 to 24, 28.2% from 25 to 44, 30.2% from 45 to 64, and 14.9% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 43 years. For every 100 females, there were 88.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 86.4 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the CDP was $38,409, and the median income for a family was $47,212. Males had a median income of $39,205 versus $22,708 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $20,848. About 10.1% of families and 12.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 14.9% of those under age 18 and 6.1% of those age 65 or over.\n\nDouble Bluff Beach and State Park is a popular site on the south side of Whidbey Island, south of Freeland. The beach offers of shellfish harvesting and at times total solitude along the shores of Useless Bay and Admiralty Inlet to the north of the Puget Sound.\n\nSouth Whidbey Island State Park, northwest of Freeland, provides beach access and forested trails through a mixture of second growth and old growth timber.\n\nFreeland Park on Holmes Harbor on the north side of town has beach access, boat ramp, boat moorage, picnic tables, children's playground, and an annual Third of July fireworks celebration.\n\nHolmes Harbor Golf Club is an 18-hole, par 64, public golf course with views of Holmes Harbor.\n"}
{"id": "4106980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4106980", "title": "Hacktivist News Service", "text": "Hacktivist News Service\n\nHacktivist News Service is a French alternative media comparable to Indymedia.\n\n"}
{"id": "46295934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46295934", "title": "Henrik Lund (academic)", "text": "Henrik Lund (academic)\n\nHenrik Lund (born 1960 in Aalborg) is a Danish engineer and professor at Aalborg University.\n\nLund studied engineering at Aalborg university and other universities and obtained a Master's degree in 1985. In 1990 he finished his PhD and in 2009 he became Dr.Techn.. In 1990 he was named Assistant Professor at Aalborg University, got Associate Professor in 1993 and became Full Professor in 2006.\n\nAs of October 2017 his h-index is 43 (Web of Science) respectively 47 (Scopus) and is a member of The Danish Academy of Technical Sciences. He is listed among ISI Highly Cited researchers.\n\nHe is editor-in-chief of scientific journal \"Energy\", ranking 12th out of 89 journals in \"Energy & Fuels\" according to the \"Journal Citation Reports\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16436319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16436319", "title": "International Centre for Reconciliation", "text": "International Centre for Reconciliation\n\nThe International Centre for Reconciliation (or ICR) was based at Coventry Cathedral, UK, and was established in 1940 after the destruction of the cathedral in the Second World War. Rather than seek revenge for the devastation caused, the centre's founders vowed to promote reconciliation in areas of conflict. This began in the former Communist bloc, but has since broadened to focus on the conflict between the three major monotheistic faiths. In 2008, the ICR ceased to exist as an individual entity, and its work was taken on more closely by Coventry Cathedral under the Coventry Cathedral Reconciliation Ministry banner.\n\nIt was\"committed to reconciliation in various situations of violent conflict, some related to religious dispute and others fuelled by different factors\".\n\nThe ICR also co-ordinated the Community of the Cross of Nails, which is an international network of 150 organisations in 60 countries. All of these organisations aim for reconciliation, providing the ICR with a support base throughout the world. The centre has \"formal partnerships\" with the Anglican Diocese of Kaduna in Nigeria and the Syriac Orthodox Diocese of Jerusalem.\n\nThis person in this position leads the ICR.\n\n\nWhite moved on to become vicar of St George's Church, Baghdad (Iraq) in 2005. St George's is the only Anglican church in Iraq.\n\nWelby became Sub-Dean and Canon for Reconciliation Ministry at Coventry Cathedral in 2005; moved to become Dean of Liverpool as of December 2007 and Bishop of Durham as of November 2011. He was consecrated as the 105th Archbishop of Canterbury in March 2013.\n"}
{"id": "16904190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16904190", "title": "International Parliament for Safety and Peace", "text": "International Parliament for Safety and Peace\n\nThe International (States) Parliament for Safety and Peace (IPSP or ISPSP; ), sometimes written along with the designation New Society of Nations, is a private organization based in Palermo, Italy, whose stated intention is the promotion of security and peace. Its founder and president was Palermo-native Vittorio Maria Busa (1941–2013), self-styled as Viktor Ivan Busà, who also claimed the titles of metropolitan and archbishop of Białystok, president of the Republic of Danzig and the Democratic Republic of Belarus, and Grand Khan of Tartary and Mongolia. Since the death of Busa in 2013 the organization's websites were closed. In 2015 \"officials\" of IPSP met a Jordanian house speaker and a Syrian government minister.\n\nThe International Parliament for Safety and Peace claims recognition under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations (1961) and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (1963). It had an observer in attendance at the 13th meeting of the Technical Preparatory Committee of the Whole of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa in Addis Abeba in 1992. IPSP joined the United Nations Global Compact campaign in 2010 as a global non-governmental organization with 1400 employees, but was delisted the next year for a \"failure to comply with Integrity Measures\". In 2015, Atef Tarawneh, the Speaker of Jordan's Lower House received representatives of the Parliament for Safety and Peace for a meeting and signed an agreement.\n\nIPSP claims association with many dignitaries in senator, deputy, and executive positions in its global, regional or local chapters. Columnist Steve Blow of \"The Dallas Morning News\" has referred to such positions as bodacious credentials. Columnist Bernard Levin of \"The Times\" wrote in 1994 that one could join the Parliament for just $140. IPSP reportedly awards titles of nobility and hands out medals for artistic merit and the pursuit of peace. Among the \"senators for life\" are president of the Gambia Yahya Jammeh, African-American entrepreneur Charles Steele, Jr., and Kochin-Indian vocalist K. J. Yesudas. President of Gabon Omar Bongo was a \"senator for life\" and \"Grand Chancellor\" of the organization. He won the IPSP peace trophy of 2006, handed out in 2007. The President of Equatorial Guinea since 1979, Obiang Nguema, received a \"Gold Medal for the Liberties of Peoples\" from the IPSP in 2003. Nguema is also listed as the organization's vice-president.\n\nIn 2010 IPSP drew international media attention after it secured Kentucky Colonel (2008) and Nebraska Admiral (2010) awards for Yahya Jammeh. IPSP representatives also gave Jammeh two awards and a letter from Barack Obama that were later described as inauthentic or non-existent. Jammeh also received \"Russian\" and \"German\" honorary degrees from members of the IPSP.\n\nThe organization issues its own diplomatic passports. The Council of the European Union, the authorities of Portugal and the Isle of Man, and various news sources have described these as fantasy documents.\n\nSeveral unaccredited institutions of higher education operating inside and outside the United States state that they are accredited or recognized by the International Parliament for Safety and Peace. The IPSP is not recognized as an accreditor by the United States Department of Education (USDE) or the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). Without recognition of the \"accreditation agency\" by USDE and CHEA or an entity in the country where the accreditor is located, such accreditations are \"bogus\" to the academic community. The IPSP websites state that in the future the IPSP will only recognize institutions that are \"regularly registered and approved by the Ministry of Education in their State of origin\".\n\nAmong the institutions claiming accreditation or other recognition from IPSP are the Alternative Medicines Research Institute, Akamai University, European-American University, Institute of Energy Wellness Studies, \"Newport University CED\", Rutherford University, West Coast University, Weston Reserve University, and World Information Distributed University. IPSP is also identified as having recognized and accredited the World Organization of Natural Medicine, which awards the title Doctor of Natural Medicine (DNM).\n\nRutherford University was identified as a degree mill by the Oregon Office of Degree Authorization and moved its headquarters twice, after academic operations were forbidden in British Columbia and Wyoming. It was closed after operations from Swaziland attracted international media attention. The late IPSP leader, Viktor Ivan Busà, was listed with a PhD degree as a special advisor to Rutherford University México. He was also listed as the recipient of a 2007 PhD degree in Political Science from the International University of Fundamental Studies, which also claims its accreditation from the IPSP.\n\nThe following persons were identified as recipients of an IPSP Peace Trophy:\n\n"}
{"id": "54041109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54041109", "title": "Intersex rights in Uganda", "text": "Intersex rights in Uganda\n\nIntersex people in Uganda face a dangerous environment, with significant gaps in protection from mutilation and non-consensual cosmetic medical interventions and protection from discrimination.\n\nTraditionally, children who are identified as having an intersex condition at birth were killed, and mothers may be accused of witchcraft. This is beginning to change, with the help of intersex civil society organizations like SIPD Uganda, but stigma, violence, abuse and exploitation still persist.\n\nIn December 2017, African intersex activists published a statement setting out local demands.\n\nReports suggest that the birth of an intersex infant can be regarded as a curse or bad omen, resulting in infanticide, neglect, and the stigmatization of the mother. Mothers may even be expelled from their community, and intersex children may be separated from siblings.\n\nIntersex persons may experience coercive medical interventions, in medical settings and outside medical settings. However, intersex persons who require medical attention may also have difficulties accessing necessary treatment.\n\nA 2014 Civil Society Coalition on Human Rights and Constitutional Law report identified multiple cases where surgeries and medical interventions led to human rights abuses. In one case, surgery conducted by medical practitioners without family consent led to the child having health problems and dropping out of school. In another case, a child was abandoned at hospital after genital surgery because of the cost of treatment. The hospital discontinued his treatment.\n\nSam Lyomoki, a Ugandan MP and a doctor, has stated that the parliament \"issued guidelines in 2015 to the Ministry of Health advising against surgical intervention for intersex infants\", however, \"Local radio stations in Uganda buzz with appeals seeking donors to help fund genital reshaping surgery abroad\" and surgeries are also carried out within Uganda. Local organization SIPD Uganda \"advocates for the 'best guess' non-surgical approach where an intersex child should be raised in the best-suited gender, without irreversible surgical intervention, until they can be active participants in the decision\".\n\nThe constitution of Uganda provides for recognition of fundamental rights and freedoms, equality and non-discrimination, privacy, education and affirmative action. The African Charter on the rights and welfare of the African child commits member countries, including Uganda, to the protection of all children – including intersex children – against social, economic, cultural and political abuse and exploitation. In practice, intersex persons remain subject to violence, discrimination and abuse.\n\nIn research by SIPD Uganda, 90% of intersex youth reported that they were forced to drop out of school because of the immense stigma and discrimination associated with the non-binary development of their intersex body.\"\n\nThe Registration of Persons Act 2015 allows for the registration of a child born a \"hermaphrodite\", and for change of name and change of sex classification. The recommendation of a medical clinician is required. Changes of name can create social problems, and the situation of adults is uncertain. Many intersex persons are understood to be stateless due to historical difficulties in obtaining identification documents.\n\nSIPD Uganda has called for recognition of the human rights of intersex people in Uganda, and in the East African region, including protection from harmful surgeries, access to care, protection from discrimination and abuse, and access to education and employment. SIPD Uganda has worked with some 700 intersex persons in the 25 Ugandan administrative districts where it delivers services. The organization also convened a 2014 regional meeting of intersex advocates allies from Rwanda, Burundi, Kenya, Congo, Tanzania, and Uganda.\n\nIntersex is commonly confused with being lesbian or gay, and this has consequences for organizing and disclosure, as well as discrimination towards intersex persons. Julius Kaggwa, the executive director of SIPD, describes the situation in Uganda as dangerous.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7818908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7818908", "title": "Ladlad", "text": "Ladlad\n\nLadlad (English: \"come out,\" lit. \"The Unfurled\") or the LGBT Party is a Filipino lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) political party. It was founded on September 21, 2003 by Danton Remoto.\n\nThe party's official motto is \"Bukas puso, bukas isip.\" (Open heart, open mind.)\n\nThe organization's thrust is toward human rights, and the organization is fighting for equal rights among all Filipinos, whether they are LGBT or not.\n\nThe Commission on Elections denied Ladlad's petition to be allowed to run in the 2010 elections, on the grounds of \"immorality\", However, on January 12, 2010, the Supreme Court granted a temporary restraining order, thereby allowing Ladlad to participate in the 2010 elections. In the 2007 elections, Ladlad was previously disqualified for failing to prove they had nationwide membership.\n\nOn April 8, 2010, the Supreme Court formally allowed Ladlad to join the elections. The party received 113,187 votes or 0.37% (excluding votes from Lanao del Sur), below the optional 2% threshold and was not able to win a seat in Congress.\n\nDue to the 2013 Elections, where Ladlad wasn't able to get a seat in Congress, the party under the same name is barred from the 2016 elections. The party can enter elections in 2019 instead.\n\nThe party's low popularity due to the country's opposing influential Catholic figures is seen as the major walls in Ladlad's congressional bid. In a foreign research study, 10% of the population can be accounted as part of the LGBT community, if generalized.\n\nIn usage of the generalization, 10% of the 50 million voting Filipinos can be accounted as part of the LGBT community, most of which are influenced by traditional Catholic teachings.\n\nModernization has lessened the percentage of Filipinos tracking traditional Catholic teachings and more LGBT Filipinos are coming out of the closet as noted by local surveys and as seen in the huge influx of LGBT Filipinos in nationwide Pride Marches, notably the Metro Manila Pride March, one of the biggest in Asia. \n\nLadlad has the following platforms:\n\nSame-sex marriage is not yet part of the party's platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "428581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428581", "title": "Left Turn", "text": "Left Turn\n\nLeft Turn was a bimonthly activist news magazine that focused on international social justice movements. Based in New York City and produced by an all volunteer editorial collective, the magazine promoted anti-imperialism and anti-authoritarianism.\n\n\"Left Turn\" had its roots in the anti-capitalist wing of the Global Justice Movement and was founded in the wake of the anti-WTO protests in Seattle in 1999 by a small group of socialists.\n\nThe magazine's tagline, \"Notes from the Global Intifada\", was inspired by the then ongoing Palestinian intifada. The magazine supported grassroots activists with the Palestine Solidarity Movement. The magazine ceased print publication after the August 2011 issue, but continues to operate a website.\n\n"}
{"id": "18076406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18076406", "title": "List of Canadian organizations with royal prefix", "text": "List of Canadian organizations with royal prefix\n\nThis is a list of Canadian organizations with designated royal status, listed by the king or queen who granted the designation.\n\nAs a matter of honour, the Canadian monarch may bestow on an organization the right to use the prefix \"royal\" before its name; this may be done for any type of constituted group, from Royal Ottawa Golf Club to the Royal Canadian Regiment. The granting of this distinction falls within the Royal Prerogative, and thus is conferred by the monarch through the office of her viceroy, with input from the Department of Canadian Heritage on whether or not the institution meets the criteria of having been in existence for at least 25 years, being financially secure, and a non-profit organization, amongst others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2517630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2517630", "title": "List of fascist movements by country", "text": "List of fascist movements by country\n\nThis is a list of political parties, organizations, and movements that have been claimed to follow some form of fascist ideology. Since definitions of fascism vary, entries in this list may be controversial. For a discussion of the various debates surrounding the nature of fascism, see \"fascism and ideology\" and \"definitions of fascism\".\n\n\"This list has been divided into four sections for reasons of length:\"\n\nEurope\n\nAsia\n\nSouth America\n\nCentral America\n\nAfrica\n\nGerman States\n\nItalian states\nItalian Colonies\n\nJapanese states\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11539348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11539348", "title": "Little Rivonia Trial", "text": "Little Rivonia Trial\n\nThe Little Rivonia Trial was a South African apartheid-era court case in which several members of the armed resistance group Umkhonto we Sizwe faced charges of sabotage. The accused were: Laloo Chiba, Dave Kitson, Mac Maharaj, John Matthews and Wilton Mkwayi. A confederate of theirs, Lionel Gay turned state witness, and in return, the prosecution dropped the charges against him. \n\nJudge W.G. Boshoff presided over the November 1964 trial, with human rights lawyer George Bizos one of the advocates appearing for the defence. All the accused were found guilty. Maharaj's legal representatives were expecting that he would receive the death penalty for his Central Committee membership of the South African Communist Party. During the sentencing phase Mkwayi would simply say in his defence: \"My Lord, I am a professional agitator\". Mkwayi received a life sentence; Kitson twenty years; Chiba eighteen years; Matthews fifteen years and Maharaj twelve years. While Kitson and Matthews (both white), were imprisoned in Pretoria, Mkwayi, Maharaj and Chiba joined Nelson Mandela and other prominent African National Congress members for hard labour at the famous Robben Island quarry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18737458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18737458", "title": "Massachusetts Land Court", "text": "Massachusetts Land Court\n\nThe Massachusetts Land Court is one of the departments of the Trial Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The court is unique among the courts of Massachusetts and among state courts in general because its subject-matter jurisdiction is limited to disputes involving real property.\n\nThe court's geographic jurisdiction covers all of Massachusetts. The court usually sits in Boston, but may hold trials at other locations when necessary.\n\nThe Land Court has exclusive and original jurisdiction over the registration of title to real property (discussed \"infra\"), over all matters and disputes concerning such title after registration, and over the foreclosure and redemption of real estate tax liens.\n\nThe Land Court shares jurisdiction over other property matters with other court departments. The court's jurisdiction overlaps significantly with that of the Massachusetts Superior Court in many instances, because the Superior Court has original jurisdiction in civil actions over $25,000, and in matters where equitable relief is sought. The court has concurrent jurisdiction with the Superior Court over specific performance of real estate contracts, over petitions for partitions of real estate, and over the processing of mortgage foreclosure cases.\n\nThe Land Court shares jurisdiction with the Superior Court and the Housing Court over matters arising out of decisions by local planning boards and zoning boards of appeal.\n\nBeginning in August 2006, the Massachusetts Legislature established a separate session of the Land Court, known as the \"permit session\". This session has original jurisdiction over certain civil actions involving land use and environmental permitting. This jurisdiction is also concurrent with the Superior Court.\n\nApart from adjudicating cases, registration of title to real property is one of the Land Court's most important responsibilities. Registration of title under Massachusetts state law occurs when the Land Court, after having the title exhaustively searched by a Court-appointed examiner, and after due process is afforded to all interested parties, reviews and then adjudicates and decrees the state of the title. Once this process is complete, the current state of the title, as it is sequentially updated by registration of future transactions, is embodied in a certificate of title which both evidences and guarantees title, subject only to the exceptions provided by statute and matters of federal law. The initial decree of registration and the subsequent certificate of title are actions \"in rem\". Registration is useful when title is insufficient to support a conclusion of ownership under the traditional recording system, or is clearly defective, and the putative owner desires to make the title good and marketable.\n\nThe court employs a staff of engineers and surveyors to help accomplish the task of determining land title and boundaries. The Land Court also has superintendency authority over the registered land office in each registry of deeds.\n\nThe Land Court was originally created by the Massachusetts Legislature in 1898 as the \"Court of Registration\". The court's name was changed to the \"Court of Land Registration\" in 1900, before it was finally given its current name in 1904. Over the first few years of its existence, the Court was brought into its current status as a court of record on a par with the Superior Court. Until the creation of the Massachusetts Appeals Court in 1972, it was the only court of statewide jurisdiction other than the Supreme Judicial Court. The original text of Land Court cases is provided by Westlaw, Mass Cases and LexisNexis. A law reporter with Land Court cases, commentary, and subject matter indices is provided by Landlaw Inc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8607973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8607973", "title": "Miner's Right", "text": "Miner's Right\n\nThe Miner's Right was introduced in 1855 in the colony of Victoria, replacing the Miner's Licence. Protests in 1853 at Bendigo with the formation of the Anti-Gold Licence Association and the rebellion of Eureka Stockade in December 1854 at Ballarat led to reform of the system with a cheaper annual fee of five shillings the right to mine gold, the right to vote, and the right to own land. Previously the mining licence was eight pounds a year.\n\nIn Ballarat as at 1978 some houses were still held with the tenure associated with a miner's right.\n\nOther Australian colonies and New Zealand soon replaced the licensing system with Miner's Rights also.\n\n"}
{"id": "56696620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56696620", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Jordan)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Jordan)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence () is the Jordan government agency responsible for defence of Jordan. It is also involved with internal security.\n\n"}
{"id": "19776392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19776392", "title": "Ministry of Economy (Portugal)", "text": "Ministry of Economy (Portugal)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy () is a Portuguese government ministry.\n"}
{"id": "22773785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22773785", "title": "Ministry of Economy (Romania)", "text": "Ministry of Economy (Romania)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy of Romania () is one of the ministries of the Government of Romania.\n\nThe minister's seat is currently held by Mihai Fifor under Prime Minister Mihai Tudose.\n\n"}
{"id": "12281470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12281470", "title": "Nag's Head Fable", "text": "Nag's Head Fable\n\nThe Nag's Head Fable was a fiction which purported that Matthew Parker, Archbishop of Canterbury under Elizabeth I, was consecrated with a Bible pressed to his neck in the Nag's Head tavern in Cheapside. The story surfaced more than 40 years after Parker's consecration and was spread by some Roman Catholics as fact until the dawn of the 20th century.\n\nOn the passing of the Act of Uniformity 1559, shortly after the start of Elizabeth I's reign, fourteen bishops were dismissed from their sees, and all the other sees, except Llandaff (then part of the Church of England), were at the time vacant. Matthew Parker had been selected as Archbishop of Canterbury, but there was a question of how to obtain consecration so as to preserve unbroken apostolic succession, as the Bishop of Llandaff, Anthony Kitchin, opposed Parker's appointment and refused to officiate. The allegation of an indecent consecration in the Nag's Head Fable seems first to have been made by a Jesuit, Christopher Holywood, in 1604, over 40 years after the event.\n\nAccording to propaganda, John Scory, the deposed Bishop of Chichester, was sent for and officiated at the Nag's Head tavern in Cheapside. There Parker was supposedly consecrated by having a Bible pressed to his neck while Scory said, \"Take thou authority to preach the word of God sincerely.\"\n\nThis story was later discredited, as a full eyewitness description was found of the consecration of Parker, in Lambeth Palace Chapel, by bishops Scory, William Barlow, Myles Coverdale, and John Hodgkins. In this account it is stated that it was not the consecration which took place at the Nag's Head, but only that those who took part in it dined there subsequently.\n\nAs recently as the late nineteenth century, the legend was still being told as fact by controversialists in such countries as Sri Lanka.\n"}
{"id": "22165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22165", "title": "Nuclear disarmament", "text": "Nuclear disarmament\n\nNuclear disarmament is the act of reducing or eliminating nuclear weapons. It can also be the end state of a nuclear-weapons-free world, in which nuclear weapons are completely eliminated. The term denuclearization is also used to describe the process leading to complete nuclear disarmament.\n\nNuclear disarmament groups include the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, Peace Action, Greenpeace, Soka Gakkai International, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, Mayors for Peace, Global Zero, the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, and the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation. There have been many large anti-nuclear demonstrations and protests. On June 12, 1982, one million people demonstrated in New York City's Central Park against nuclear weapons and for an end to the cold war arms race. It was the largest anti-nuclear protest and the largest political demonstration in American history.\n\nIn recent years, some U.S. elder statesmen have also advocated nuclear disarmament. Sam Nunn, William Perry, Henry Kissinger, and George Shultz have called upon governments to embrace the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons, and in various op-ed columns have proposed an ambitious program of urgent steps to that end. The four have created the Nuclear Security Project to advance this agenda. Organisations such as Global Zero, an international non-partisan group of 300 world leaders dedicated to achieving nuclear disarmament, have also been established.\n\nProponents of nuclear disarmament say that it would lessen the probability of nuclear war occurring, especially accidentally. Critics of nuclear disarmament say that it would undermine deterrence.\n\nIn 1945 in the New Mexico desert, American scientists conducted \"Trinity,\" the first nuclear weapons test, marking the beginning of the atomic age. Even before the Trinity test, national leaders debated the impact of nuclear weapons on domestic and foreign policy. Also involved in the debate about nuclear weapons policy was the scientific community, through professional associations such as the Federation of Atomic Scientists and the Pugwash Conference on Science and World Affairs.\n\nOn August 6, 1945, towards the end of World War II, the \"Little Boy\" device was detonated over the Japanese city of Hiroshima. Exploding with a yield equivalent to 12,500 tonnes of TNT, the blast and thermal wave of the bomb destroyed nearly 50,000 buildings (including the headquarters of the 2nd General Army and Fifth Division) and killed 70,000–80,000 people outright, with total deaths being around 90,000–146,000. Detonation of the \"Fat Man\" device exploded over the Japanese city of Nagasaki three days later on 9 August 1945, destroying 60% of the city and killing 35,000–40,000 people outright, though up to 40,000 additional deaths may have occurred over some time after that. Subsequently, the world’s nuclear weapons stockpiles grew.\n\nOperation Crossroads was a series of nuclear weapon tests conducted by the United States at Bikini Atoll in the Pacific Ocean in the summer of 1946. Its purpose was to test the effect of nuclear weapons on naval ships. Pressure to cancel Operation Crossroads came from scientists and diplomats. Manhattan Project scientists argued that further nuclear testing was unnecessary and environmentally dangerous. A Los Alamos study warned \"the water near a recent surface explosion will be a 'witch's brew' of radioactivity\". To prepare the atoll for the nuclear tests, Bikini's native residents were evicted from their homes and resettled on smaller, uninhabited islands where they were unable to sustain themselves.\n\nRadioactive fallout from nuclear weapons testing was first drawn to public attention in 1954 when a hydrogen bomb test in the Pacific contaminated the crew of the Japanese fishing boat \"Lucky Dragon\". One of the fishermen died in Japan seven months later. The incident caused widespread concern around the world and \"provided a decisive impetus for the emergence of the anti-nuclear weapons movement in many countries\". The anti-nuclear weapons movement grew rapidly because for many people the atomic bomb \"encapsulated the very worst direction in which society was moving\".\n\nPeace movements emerged in Japan and in 1954 they converged to form a unified \"Japanese Council Against Atomic and Hydrogen Bombs\". Japanese opposition to the Pacific nuclear weapons tests was widespread, and \"an estimated 35 million signatures were collected on petitions calling for bans on nuclear weapons\". In the United Kingdom, the first Aldermaston March organised by the Direct Action Committee and supported by the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament took place on Easter 1958, when several thousand people marched for four days from Trafalgar Square, London, to the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment close to Aldermaston in Berkshire, England, to demonstrate their opposition to nuclear weapons. CND organised Aldermaston marches into the late 1960s when tens of thousands of people took part in the four-day events.\n\nOn November 1, 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. It was the largest national women's peace protest of the 20th century.\n\nIn 1958, Linus Pauling and his wife presented the United Nations with the petition signed by more than 11,000 scientists calling for an end to nuclear-weapon testing. The \"Baby Tooth Survey,\" headed by Dr Louise Reiss, demonstrated conclusively in 1961 that above-ground nuclear testing posed significant public health risks in the form of radioactive fallout spread primarily via milk from cows that had ingested contaminated grass. Public pressure and the research results subsequently led to a moratorium on above-ground nuclear weapons testing, followed by the Partial Test Ban Treaty, signed in 1963 by John F. Kennedy and Nikita Khrushchev. On the day that the treaty went into force, the Nobel Prize Committee awarded Pauling the Nobel Peace Prize, describing him as \"Linus Carl Pauling, who ever since 1946 has campaigned ceaselessly, not only against nuclear weapons tests, not only against the spread of these armaments, not only against their very use, but against all warfare as a means of solving international conflicts.\" Pauling started the International League of Humanists in 1974. He was president of the scientific advisory board of the World Union for Protection of Life and also one of the signatories of the Dubrovnik-Philadelphia Statement.\n\nIn the 1980s, a movement for nuclear disarmament again gained strength in the light of the weapons build-up and statements of US President Ronald Reagan. Reagan had \"a world free of nuclear weapons\" as his personal mission, and was largely scorned for this in Europe. Reagan was able to start discussions on nuclear disarmament with Soviet Union. He changed the name \"SALT\" (Strategic Arms Limitation Talks) to \"START\" (Strategic Arms Reduction Talks).\n\nOn June 3, 1981, William Thomas launched the White House Peace Vigil in Washington, D.C.. He was later joined on the vigil by anti-nuclear activists Concepcion Picciotto and Ellen Benjamin.\n\nOn June 12, 1982, one million people demonstrated in New York City's Central Park against nuclear weapons and for an end to the cold war arms race. It was the largest anti-nuclear protest and the largest political demonstration in American history. International Day of Nuclear Disarmament protests were held on June 20, 1983 at 50 sites across the United States. In 1986, hundreds of people walked from Los Angeles to Washington, D.C. in the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament. There were many Nevada Desert Experience protests and peace camps at the Nevada Test Site during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nOn May 1, 2005, 40,000 anti-nuclear/anti-war protesters marched past the United Nations in New York, 60 years after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In 2008, 2009, and 2010, there have been protests about, and campaigns against, several new nuclear reactor proposals in the United States.\n\nThere is an annual protest against U.S. nuclear weapons research at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California and in the 2007 protest, 64 people were arrested. There have been a series of protests at the Nevada Test Site and in the April 2007 Nevada Desert Experience protest, 39 people were cited by police. There have been anti-nuclear protests at Naval Base Kitsap for many years, and several in 2008.\n\nIn 2017, the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize \"for its work to draw attention to the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of any use of nuclear weapons and for its ground-breaking efforts to achieve a treaty-based prohibition of such weapons\".\n\nOne of the earliest peace organisations to emerge after the Second World War was the World Peace Council, which was directed by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union through the Soviet Peace Committee. Its origins lay in the Communist Information Bureau's (Cominform) doctrine, put forward 1947, that the world was divided between peace-loving progressive forces led by the Soviet Union and warmongering capitalist countries led by the United States. In 1949, Cominform directed that peace \"should now become the pivot of the entire activity of the Communist Parties\", and most western Communist parties followed this policy. Lawrence Wittner, a historian of the post-war peace movement, argues that the Soviet Union devoted great efforts to the promotion of the WPC in the early post-war years because it feared an American attack and American superiority of arms at a time when the USA possessed the atom bomb but the Soviet Union had not yet developed it.\n\nIn 1950, the WPC launched its Stockholm Appeal calling for the absolute prohibition of nuclear weapons. The campaign won support, collecting, it is said, 560 million signatures in Europe, most from socialist countries, including 10 million in France (including that of the young Jacques Chirac), and 155 million signatures in the Soviet Union – the entire adult population. Several non-aligned peace groups who had distanced themselves from the WPC advised their supporters not to sign the Appeal.\n\nThe WPC had uneasy relations with the non-aligned peace movement and has been described as being caught in contradictions as \"it sought to become a broad world movement while being instrumentalized increasingly to serve foreign policy in the Soviet Union and nominally socialist countries.\" From the 1950s until the late 1980s it tried to use non-aligned peace organizations to spread the Soviet point of view. At first there was limited co-operation between such groups and the WPC, but western delegates who tried to criticize the Soviet Union or the WPC's silence about Russian armaments were often shouted down at WPC conferences and by the early 1960s they had dissociated themselves from the WPC.\n\nAfter the 1986 Reykjavik Summit between U.S. President Ronald Reagan and the new Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev, the United States and the Soviet Union concluded two important nuclear arms reduction treaties: the INF Treaty (1987) and START I (1991). After the end of the Cold War, the United States and the Russian Federation concluded the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty (2003) and the New START Treaty (2010).\n\nWhen the extreme danger intrinsic to nuclear war and the possession of nuclear weapons became apparent to all sides during the Cold War, a series of disarmament and nonproliferation treaties were agreed upon between the United States, the Soviet Union, and several other states throughout the world. Many of these treaties involved years of negotiations, and seemed to result in important steps in arms reductions and reducing the risk of nuclear war.\n\nKey treaties\nOnly one country has been known to ever dismantle their nuclear arsenal completely—the apartheid government of South Africa apparently developed half a dozen crude fission weapons during the 1980s, but they were dismantled in the early 1990s.\n\nIn its landmark resolution 1653 of 1961, \"Declaration on the prohibition of the use of nuclear and thermo-nuclear weapons,\" the UN General Assembly stated that use of nuclear weaponry “would exceed even the scope of war and cause indiscriminate suffering and destruction to mankind and civilization and, as such, is contrary to the rules of international law and to the laws of humanity”.\n\nThe UN Office for Disarmament Affairs (UNODA) is a department of the United Nations Secretariat established in January 1998 as part of the United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan's plan to reform the UN as presented in his report to the General Assembly in July 1997.\n\nIts goal is to promote nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation and the strengthening of the disarmament regimes in respect to other weapons of mass destruction, chemical and biological weapons. It also promotes disarmament efforts in the area of conventional weapons, especially land mines and small arms, which are often the weapons of choice in contemporary conflicts.\n\nFollowing the retirement of Sergio Duarte in February 2012, Angela Kane was appointed as the new High Representative for Disarmament Affairs.\n\nOn 7 July 2017, a UN conference adopted the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons with the backing of 122 states. It opened for signature on 20 September 2017.\n\nDespite a general trend toward disarmament in the early 2000s, the George W. Bush administration repeatedly pushed to fund policies that would allegedly make nuclear weapons more usable in the post–Cold War environment. To date the U.S. Congress has refused to fund many of these policies. However, some feel that even considering such programs harms the credibility of the United States as a proponent of nonproliferation.\n\n\nFormer U.S. officials Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, Bill Perry, and Sam Nunn (aka 'The Gang of Four' on Nuclear Deterrence).\" proposed in January 2007 that the United States rededicate itself to the goal of eliminating nuclear weapons, concluding: \"We endorse setting the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons and working energetically on the actions required to achieve that goal.\" Arguing a year later that \"with nuclear weapons more widely available, deterrence is decreasingly effective and increasingly hazardous,\" the authors concluded that although \"it is tempting and easy to say we can't get there from here, [...] we must chart a course” toward that goal.\" During his presidential campaign, U.S. President-Elect Barack Obama pledged to \"set a goal of a world without nuclear weapons, and pursue it.\"\n\nThe United States has taken the lead in ensuring that nuclear materials globally are properly safeguarded. A popular program that has received bipartisan domestic support for over a decade is the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program (CTR). While this program has been deemed a success, many believe that its funding levels need to be increased so as to ensure that all dangerous nuclear materials are secured in the most expeditious manner possible. The CTR program has led to several other innovative and important nonproliferation programs that need to continue to be a budget priority in order to ensure that nuclear weapons do not spread to actors hostile to the United States.\n\nKey programs:\n\nWhile the vast majority of states have adhered to the stipulations of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, a few states have either refused to sign the treaty or have pursued nuclear weapons programs while not being members of the treaty. Many view the pursuit of nuclear weapons by these states as a threat to nonproliferation and world peace.\n\nEliminating nuclear weapons has long been an aim of the pacifist left. But now many mainstream politicians, academic analysts, and retired military leaders also advocate nuclear disarmament. Sam Nunn, William Perry, Henry Kissinger, and George Shultz have called upon governments to embrace the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons, and in three \"Wall Street Journal\" opeds proposed an ambitious program of urgent steps to that end. The four have created the Nuclear Security Project to advance this agenda. Nunn reinforced that agenda during a speech at the Harvard Kennedy School on October 21, 2008, saying, \"I’m much more concerned about a terrorist without a return address that cannot be deterred than I am about deliberate war between nuclear powers. You can’t deter a group who is willing to commit suicide. We are in a different era. You have to understand the world has changed.\" In 2010, the four were featured in a documentary film entitled \"Nuclear Tipping Point\". The film is a visual and historical depiction of the ideas laid forth in the Wall Street Journal op-eds and reinforces their commitment to a world without nuclear weapons and the steps that can be taken to reach that goal.\n\nGlobal Zero is an international non-partisan group of 300 world leaders dedicated to achieving nuclear disarmament. The initiative, launched in December 2008, promotes a phased withdrawal and verification for the destruction of all devices held by official and unofficial members of the nuclear club. The Global Zero campaign works toward building an international consensus and a sustained global movement of leaders and citizens for the elimination of nuclear weapons. Goals include the initiation of United States-Russia bilateral negotiations for reductions to 1,000 total warheads each and commitments from the other key nuclear weapons countries to participate in multilateral negotiations for phased reductions of nuclear arsenals. Global Zero works to expand the diplomatic dialogue with key governments and continue to develop policy proposals on the critical issues related to the elimination of nuclear weapons.\n\nThe International Conference on Nuclear Disarmament took place in Oslo in February, 2008, and was organized by The Government of Norway, the Nuclear Threat Initiative and the Hoover Institute. The Conference was entitled \"Achieving the Vision of a World Free of Nuclear Weapons\" and had the purpose of building consensus between nuclear weapon states and non-nuclear weapon states in relation to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty.\n\nThe Tehran International Conference on Disarmament and Non-Proliferation took place in Tehran in April 2010. The conference was held shortly after the signing of the New START, and resulted in a call of action toward eliminating all nuclear weapons. Representatives from 60 countries were invited to the conference. Non-governmental organizations were also present.\n\nAmong the prominent figures who have called for the abolition of nuclear weapons are \"the philosopher Bertrand Russell, the entertainer Steve Allen, CNN’s Ted Turner, former Senator Claiborne Pell, Notre Dame president Theodore Hesburgh, South African Bishop Desmond Tutu and the Dalai Lama\".\n\nOthers have argued that nuclear weapons have made the world relatively safer, with peace through deterrence and through the stability–instability paradox, including in south Asia. Kenneth Waltz has argued that nuclear weapons have created a nuclear peace, and further nuclear weapon proliferation might even help avoid the large scale conventional wars that were so common prior to their invention at the end of World War II. In the July 2012 issue of Foreign Affairs Waltz took issue with the view of most U.S., European, and Israeli, commentators and policymakers that a nuclear-armed Iran would be unacceptable. Instead Waltz argues that it would probably be the best possible outcome, as it would restore stability to the Middle East by balancing Israel's regional monopoly on nuclear weapons. Professor John Mueller of Ohio State University, the author of \"Atomic Obsession\", has also dismissed the need to interfere with Iran's nuclear program and expressed that arms control measures are counterproductive. During a 2010 lecture at the University of Missouri, which was broadcast by C-SPAN, Dr. Mueller has also argued that the threat from nuclear weapons, especially nuclear terrorism, has been exaggerated, both in the popular media and by officials.\n\nFormer Secretary Kissinger says there is a new danger, which cannot be addressed by deterrence: \"The classical notion of deterrence was that there was some consequences before which aggressors and evildoers would recoil. In a world of suicide bombers, that calculation doesn’t operate in any comparable way\". George Shultz has said, \"If you think of the people who are doing suicide attacks, and people like that get a nuclear weapon, they are almost by definition not deterrable\".\n\nAndrew Bacevich wrote that there is no feasible scenario under which the US could sensibly use nuclear weapons. \"For the United States, they are becoming unnecessary, even as a deterrent. Certainly, they are unlikely to dissuade the adversaries most likely to employ such weapons against us -- Islamic extremists intent on acquiring their own nuclear capability. If anything, the opposite is true. By retaining a strategic arsenal in readiness (and by insisting without qualification that the dropping of atomic bombs on two Japanese cities in 1945 was justified), the United States continues tacitly to sustain the view that nuclear weapons play a legitimate role in international politics ... .\"\n\nIn \"The Limits of Safety\", Scott Sagan documented numerous incidents in US military history that could have produced a nuclear war by accident. He concluded, \"while the military organizations controlling U.S. nuclear forces during the Cold War performed this task with less success than we know, they performed with more success than we \"should\" have reasonably predicted. The problems identified in this book were not the product of incompetent organizations. They reflect the inherent limits of organizational safety. Recognizing that simple truth is the first and most important step toward a safer future.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "588579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588579", "title": "Ostend Manifesto", "text": "Ostend Manifesto\n\nThe Ostend Manifesto, also known as the Ostend Circular, was a document written in 1854 that described the rationale for the United States to purchase Cuba from Spain while implying that the U.S. should declare war if Spain refused. Cuba's annexation had long been a goal of U.S. slaveholding expansionists, and was supported by a faction in Cuba itself. At the national level, American leaders had been satisfied to have the island remain in weak Spanish hands so long as it did not pass to a stronger power such as Britain or France. The Ostend Manifesto proposed a shift in foreign policy, justifying the use of force to seize Cuba in the name of national security. It resulted from debates over slavery in the United States, Manifest Destiny, and the Monroe Doctrine, as slaveholders sought new territory for slavery's expansion.\n\nDuring the administration of President Franklin Pierce, a pro-Southern Democrat, Southern expansionists called for acquiring Cuba as a slave state, but the outbreak of violence following the Kansas–Nebraska Act left the administration unsure of how to proceed. At the suggestion of Secretary of State William L. Marcy, American ministers in Europe—Pierre Soulé for Spain, James Buchanan for Great Britain, and John Y. Mason for France—met to discuss strategy related to an acquisition of Cuba. They met secretly at Ostend, Belgium, and drafted a dispatch at Aix-la-Chapelle. The document was sent to Washington in October 1854, outlining why a purchase of Cuba would be beneficial to each of the nations and declaring that the U.S. would be \"justified in wresting\" the island from Spanish hands if Spain refused to sell. To Marcy's chagrin, Soulé made no secret of the meetings, causing unwanted publicity in both Europe and the U.S. The administration was finally forced to publish the contents of the dispatch, which caused it irreparable damage.\n\nThe dispatch was published as demanded by the House of Representatives. Dubbed the \"Ostend Manifesto\", it was immediately denounced in both the Northern states and Europe. The Pierce administration suffered a significant setback, and the manifesto became a rallying cry for anti-slavery Northerners. The question of Cuba's annexation was effectively set aside until the late 19th century, when support grew for Cuban independence from Spain.\n\nLocated off the coast of Florida, Cuba had been discussed as a subject for annexation in several presidential administrations. Presidents John Quincy Adams and Thomas Jefferson expressed great interest in Cuba, with Adams observing during his Secretary of State tenure that it had \"become an object of transcendent importance to the commercial and political interests of our Union\". He later described Cuba and Puerto Rico as \"natural appendages to the North American continent\"—the former's annexation was \"indispensable to the continuance and integrity of the Union itself.\" As the Spanish Empire had lost much of its power, a no-transfer policy began with Jefferson whereby the U.S. respected Spanish sovereignty, considering the island's eventual absorption inevitable. The U.S. simply wanted to ensure that control did not pass to a stronger power such as Britain or France.\n\nCuba was of special importance to Southern Democrats, who believed their economic and political interests would be best served by the admission of another slave state to the Union. The existence of slavery in Cuba, the island's plantation economy based on sugar, and its geographical location predisposed it to Southern influence; its admission would greatly strengthen the position of Southern slaveholders, whose way of life was under fire from Northern abolitionists. Whereas immigration to Northern industrial centers had resulted in Northern control of the population-based House of Representatives, Southern politicians sought to maintain the fragile balance of power in the Senate, where each state received equal representation. As slavery-free Western states were admitted, Southern politicians increasingly looked to Cuba as the next slave state. If Cuba were admitted to the Union as a single state, the island would have sent two senators and up to nine representatives to Washington.\n\nIn the Democratic Party, the debate over the continued expansion of the United States centered on how quickly, rather than whether, to expand. Radical expansionists and the Young America movement were quickly gaining traction by 1848, and a debate about whether to annex the Yucatán portion of Mexico that year included significant discussion of Cuba. Even John C. Calhoun, described as a reluctant expansionist who strongly disagreed with intervention on the basis of the Monroe Doctrine, concurred that \"it is indispensable to the safety of the United States that this island should not be in certain hands\". likely referring to Britain.\n\nIn light of a Cuban uprising, President James K. Polk refused solicitations from filibuster backer John L. O'Sullivan and stated his belief that any acquisition of the island must be an \"amicable purchase.\" Under orders from Polk, Secretary of State James Buchanan prepared an offer of $100 million, but \"sooner than see [Cuba] transferred to any power, [Spanish officials] would prefer seeing it sunk into the ocean.\" The Whig administrations of presidents Zachary Taylor and Millard Fillmore did not pursue the matter and took a harsher stand against filibusters such as Venezuelan Narciso Lopez, with federal troops intercepting several expeditions bound for Cuba. When Franklin Pierce took office in 1853, however, he was committed to Cuba's annexation.\n\nAt Pierce's presidential inauguration, he stated, \"The policy of my Administration will not be controlled by any timid forebodings of evil from expansion.\" While slavery was not the stated goal nor Cuba mentioned by name, the antebellum makeup of his party required the Northerner to appeal to Southern interests, so he favored the annexation of Cuba as a slave state. To this end, he appointed expansionists to diplomatic posts throughout Europe, notably sending Pierre Soulé, an outspoken proponent of Cuban annexation, as United States Minister to Spain. The Northerners in his cabinet were fellow doughfaces (Northerners with Southern sympathies) such as Buchanan, who was made Minister to Great Britain after a failed bid for the presidency at the Democratic National Convention, and Secretary of State William L. Marcy, whose appointment was also an attempt to placate the \"Old Fogies.\" This was the term for the wing of the party that favored slow, cautious expansion.\n\nIn March 1854, the steamer \"Black Warrior\" stopped at the Cuban port of Havana on a regular trading route from New York City to Mobile, Alabama. When it failed to provide a cargo manifest, Cuban officials seized the ship, its cargo, and its crew. The so-called \"Black Warrior\" Affair was viewed by Congress as a violation of American rights; a hollow ultimatum issued by Soulé to the Spanish to return the ship served only to strain relations, and he was barred from discussing Cuba's acquisition for nearly a year. While the matter was resolved peacefully, it fueled the flames of Southern expansionism.\n\nMeanwhile, the doctrine of Manifest Destiny had become increasingly sectionalized as the decade progressed. While there were still Northerners who believed the United States should dominate the continent, most were opposed to Cuba's annexation, particularly as a slave state. Southern-backed filibusters, including Narciso López, had failed repeatedly since 1849 to 1851 to overthrow the colonial government despite considerable support among the Cuban people for independence, and a series of reforms on the island made Southerners apprehensive that slavery would be abolished. They believed that Cuba would be \"Africanized,\" as the majority of the population were slaves, and they had seen the Republic of Haiti established by former slaves. The notion of a pro-slavery invasion by the U.S. was rejected in light of the controversy over the Kansas–Nebraska Act. During internal discussions, supporters of gaining Cuba decided that a purchase or intervention in the name of national security was the most acceptable method of acquisition.\n\nMarcy suggested Soulé confer with Buchanan and John Y. Mason, Minister to France, on U.S. policy toward Cuba. He had previously written to Soulé that, if Cuba's purchase could not be negotiated, \"you will then direct your effort to the next desirable object, which is to detach that island from the Spanish dominion and from all dependence on any European power\"—words Soulé may have adapted to fit his own agenda. Authors David Potter and Lars Schoultz both note the considerable ambiguity in Marcy's cryptic words, and Samuel Bemis suggests he may have referred to Cuban independence, but acknowledges it is impossible to know Marcy's true intent. In any case, Marcy had also written in June that the administration had abandoned thoughts of declaring war over Cuba. But Robert May writes, \"the instructions for the conference had been so vague, and so many of Marcy's letters to Soulé since the \"Black Warrior\" incident had been bellicose, that the ministers misread the administration's intent.\"\n\nAfter a minor disagreement about their meeting site, the three American diplomats met in Ostend, Belgium from October 9–11, 1854, then adjourned to Aix-la-Chapelle for a week to prepare a report of the proceedings. The resulting dispatch, which would come to be known as the Ostend Manifesto, declared that \"Cuba is as necessary to the North American republic as any of its present members, and that it belongs naturally to that great family of states of which the Union is the Providential Nursery\".\n\nProminent among the reasons for annexation outlined in the manifesto were fears of a possible slave revolt in Cuba parallel to the Haitian Revolution (1791–1804) in the absence of U.S. intervention. The Manifesto urged against inaction on the Cuban question, warning,\n\nWe should, however, be recreant to our duty, be unworthy of our gallant forefathers, and commit base treason against our posterity, should we permit Cuba to be Africanized and become a second St. Domingo (Haiti), with all its attendant horrors to the white race, and suffer the flames to extend to our own neighboring shores, seriously to endanger or actually to consume the fair fabric of our Union.\n\nRacial fears, largely spread by Spain, raised tension and anxiety in the U.S. over a potential black uprising on the island that could \"spread like wildfire\" to the southern U.S. The Manifesto stated that the U.S. would be \"justified in wresting\" Cuba from Spain if the colonial power refused to sell it.\n\nSoulé was a former U.S. Senator from Louisiana and member of the Young America movement, who sought a realization of American influence in the Caribbean and Central America. He is credited as the primary architect of the policy expressed in the Ostend Manifesto. The experienced and cautious Buchanan is believed to have written the document and moderated Soulé's aggressive tone. Soulé highly favored expansion of Southern influence outside the current Union of States. His belief in Manifest Destiny led him to prophesy \"absorption of the entire continent and its island appendages\" by the U.S. Mason's Virginian roots predisposed him to the sentiments expressed in the document, but he later regretted his actions. Buchanan's exact motivations remain unclear despite his expansionist tendencies, but it has been suggested that he was seduced by visions of the presidency, which he would go on to win in 1856. One historian concluded in 1893, \"When we take into account the characteristics of the three men we can hardly resist the conclusion that Soulé, as he afterwards intimated, twisted his colleagues round his finger.\"\n\nTo Marcy's chagrin, the flamboyant Soulé made no secret of the meetings. The press in both Europe and the U.S. were well aware of the proceedings if not their outcome, but were preoccupied with wars and midterm elections. In the latter case, the Democratic Party became a minority in the United States Congress, and editorials continued to chide the Pierce administration for its secrecy. At least one newspaper, the \"New York Herald,\" published what Brown calls \"reports that came so close to the truth of the decisions at Ostend that the President feared they were based on leaks, as indeed they may have been\". Pierce feared the political repercussions of confirming such rumors, and he did not acknowledge them in his State of the Union address at the end of 1854. The administration's opponents in the House of Representatives called for the document's release, and it was published in full four months after being written.\n\nWhen the document was published, Northerners were outraged by what they considered a Southern attempt to extend slavery. American free-soilers, recently angered by the strengthened Fugitive Slave Law (passed as part of the Compromise of 1850 and requiring officials of free states to cooperate in the return of slaves), decried as unconstitutional what Horace Greeley of the \"New York Tribune\" labeled \"The Manifesto of the Brigands.\" During the period of Bleeding Kansas, as anti- and pro-slavery supporters fought for control of the state, the Ostend Manifesto served as a rallying cry for the opponents of the Slave Power. The incident was one of many factors that gave rise to the Republican Party, and the manifesto was criticized in the Party's first platform in 1856 as following a \"highwayman's\" philosophy of \"might makes right.\" But, the movement to annex Cuba did not fully end until after the American Civil War.\n\nThe Pierce Administration was irreparably damaged by the incident. Pierce had been highly sympathetic to the Southern cause, and the controversy over the Ostend Manifesto contributed to the splintering of the Democratic Party. Internationally, it was seen as a threat to Spain and to imperial power across Europe. It was quickly denounced by national governments in Madrid, London, and Paris. To preserve what favorable relations the administration had left, Soulé was ordered to cease discussion of Cuba; he promptly resigned. The backlash from the Ostend Manifesto caused Pierce to abandon expansionist plans. It has been described as part of a series of \"gratuitous conflicts... that cost more than they were worth\" for Southern interests intent on maintaining the institution of slavery.\n\nJames Buchanan was easily elected President in 1856. Although he remained committed to Cuban annexation, he was hindered by popular opposition and the growing sectional conflict. It was not until thirty years after the Civil War that the so-called Cuban Question again came to national prominence.\n\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "22254995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22254995", "title": "Philippine presidential inauguration", "text": "Philippine presidential inauguration\n\nThe inauguration of the President of the Philippines is a ceremonial event marking the commencement of a new six-year term of a President of the Philippines. The day a presidential inauguration occurs is June 30 as mandated by the 1987 Philippine Constitution. Under the previous 1935 Constitution, the date was December 30, which is also Rizal Day; the last inauguration to take place on the older date was Ferdinand Marcos' second one on December 30, 1969. The most recent public presidential inauguration ceremony, the swearing in of President Rodrigo Duterte to begin his six-year term in office, took place on Thursday, June 30, 2016.\n\nThe only inauguration element mandated by the Philippine Constitution is that the president make an oath or affirmation before that person can \"enter on the Execution\" of the office of the presidency. However, over the years, various traditions have arisen that have expanded the inauguration from a simple oath-taking ceremony to a day-long event, including parades, speeches, and balls.\n\nWhen a new president takes over mid-term due to the death or resignation of a president, the oath of office is administered but formal, public inauguration events have not been held.\n\nThe ceremony since 1992 traditionally begins with the President-Elect fetching the incumbent in Malacañan Palace on the morning of June 30. At the Palace's State Entrance, the President-Elect will wait for the incumbent to descend the Grand Staircase. Upon meeting at the foot of the staircase, the President-Elect would greet the incumbent.\n\nBoth travel to the Quirino Grandstand aboard any of the Presidential cars. Following protocol, the outgoing President takes the back right-hand seat of the vehicle, while the President-Elect is seated behind the chauffeur. At the Grandstand's parade grounds, the outgoing President will be welcomed with arrival honours, and then shake hands with the President-Elect. The outgoing President conducts a final troop review and is presented to the public before departing the Grandstand aboard their own private vehicle. Only Corazón Aquino broke with the custom of leaving the Grandstand immediately, choosing instead to stay until the end of Fidel Ramos's inaugural speech. Ramos also attended the oath taking of Joseph Estrada and the inaugural ceremonies.\n\nThe inauguration proper then begins with the singing of the National Anthem. An ecumenical Invocation follows, led by leaders of the different major religions of the Philippines, followed by a patriotic musical piece by a musical ensemble. Afterwards, President of the Senate of the Philippines reads the Joint Resolution of the Joint Congressional Board of Canvassers proclaiming the newly-elected President and Vice President. Since the Third Republic, the Vice-President-Elect is sworn in before the President-Elect to immediately secure the line of succession. During his inauguration, President Manuel L. Quezon took the Oath of Office first to mark a \"new start\".\n\nAs mandated by the Constitution, the President-Elect then takes the Oath of Office at exactly 12:00 PST (GMT+8); in 2010, President-Elect Aquino did not await noon, instead taking his Oath moments after Vice-President-Elect Binay finished doing so. The Oath is customarily administered by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines, but that is not required. Due to political differences, Benigno Aquino III instead had then-Associate Justice Conchita Carpio-Morales administer the Oath instead of then-Chief Justice Renato Corona. A 21-gun salute is then immediately fired, followed by four ruffles and flourishes and the Presidential Anthem, \"We Say Mabuhay\", is played in honour of the new President.\n\nThe new President then delivers an Inaugural Address. Previous inaugurations also saw a full military and civil parade in the same manner as the Independence Day celebrations on 12 June (similar to the US Inaugural Parades) right after the address. From the late 1940s to the late 1960s, similar parades were also held on Rizal Day on 30 December as well and to ring in the New Year's celebrations that would start the day after.\n\nThe new President then returns to Malacañan Palace to formally take possession of the residence. This formal entry is symbolised by the President ascending the Grand Staircase and proceeding to the Ceremonial Hall. Juan Luna's painting, \"The Blood Compact\", is currently displayed at the top of the Staircase. The President then inducts the new Cabinet on the same day, and holds its first meeting immediately after.\n\nIn the evening, an Inaugural Reception is held for other officials and foreign dignitaries who wish to call on the new President. The customary banquets of either a \"vin d'honneur\" or an Inaugural Ball were abolished, in an effort to revert to the pre-Martial Law practise of simpler official receptions. The last Inaugural Ball was held in 1981 for Ferdinand Marcos' third inauguration, which was also the last time the \"Rigodon de Honor\" (a Hispanic dance analogous to a court dance) was performed; it was again danced on Independence Day of 2009. The President concludes the ceremonies with a toast, as a gesture of amity towards states that maintain diplomatic ties with the Philippines.\n\nThe new President is to be inaugurated at noon of June 30 as currently mandated by the 1987 Constitution, but past ceremonies were held on different dates. The first President, Emilio Aguinaldo, was inaugurated on January 23, 1899, while Presidents under the 1935 Constitution were inaugurated at noon of Rizal Day (December 30). Only two Presidents under the 1935 Constitution were not inaugurated on December 30, namely, Sergio Osmeña and Manuel Roxas. Ferdinand Marcos changed the inauguration date to the present June 30, while his successors Corazon Aquino and Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo were inaugurated on February 25, 1986 and January 20, 2001, respectively, Aquino after the EDSA Revolution and Arroyo after the EDSA II.\n\nSeven inaugurations have been held at the Quirino Grandstand in the Luneta, namely, Quirino (1949), Magsaysay (1953), Garcia (1957), Macapagal (1961), Marcos (1965, 1969, 1981), Ramos (1992) and Aquino III (2010). Presidents Estrada and Arroyo only delivered their inaugural addresses there. To date, Estrada and Arroyo were the only presidents to take the oath of office and inaugural addresses in two different locations.\n\nOther presidents, namely Aguinaldo and Estrada, were inaugurated at the Barasoain Church in Malolos, Bulacan; Quezon, Laurel and Roxas were inaugurated in front of the Legislative Building; and Aquino in Club Filipino, Greenhills, San Juan, Metro Manila. Marcos was inaugurated in Maharlika Hall, Malacañan Palace in 1986; and Duterte inaugurated in the Rizal Hall, Malacañan Palace in 2016. Arroyo took her first oath as president at the EDSA Shrine in Quezon City. Osmeña, who assumed the presidency upon the death of his predecessor Manuel L. Quezon, took his oath of office in Washington D.C. Quirino and Garcia took the oath of office in the Malacañan Palace.\n\nIn addition to the general public the following are the attendants of the Inauguration:\n\nIf a civil-military parade follows the speech the format is the same as in the Independence Day parades, with the AFP first, with the units of the Philippine National Police, Bureau of Fire Protection and the Philippine Coast Guard following them and later by civilian marchers representing the government, private sector, youth and youth uniformed organizations, national athletes and the representatives of the nation's religious sector and its various ethnic nationalities.\n\nUnder Article VII, Section 5 of the 1987 Constitution, before the President-Elect and Vice-President-Elect enters into the execution of their offices, the President shall take the following oath or affirmation:\n\nThe oath from the Filipino version of the Constitution was used for the inaugurations of Presidents Fidel V. Ramos, Joseph Estrada and Benigno Aquino III:\n\nEvery president since Emilio Aguinaldo delivered an inaugural address. Presidents, who became president upon the death of their predecessor, also delivered an address. It is usually delivered after the new president took the oath of office. However, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo delivered the inaugural address first at the Quirino Grandstand and then took the oath of office in Cebu.\n\nNote: Vice President-elects usually take the oath of office with the President-elect, but Rodrigo Duterte broke tradition by requesting Vice President-elect Leni Robredo to hold inauguration rites separately. The only other instances that the Vice President was inaugurated separately, when Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo succeeded to the presidency and nominated Teofisto Guingona as Vice President. Guingona was confirmed by Congress on February 9, 2001 and took the oath of office the same day.\n\n"}
{"id": "44314964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44314964", "title": "Protected area downgrading, downsizing, and degazettement", "text": "Protected area downgrading, downsizing, and degazettement\n\nProtected area downgrading, downsizing, and degazettement (PADDD) are processes that change the legal status of national parks and other protected areas. \"Downgrading\" is \"a decrease in legal restrictions on the number, magnitude, or extent of human activities within a protected area (i.e., legal authorization for increased human use).\" \"Downsizing\" refers to a \"decrease in size of a protected area as a result of excision of land or sea area through a legal boundary change.\" \"Degazettement\" is defined as a loss of legal protection for an entire national park or other protected area. Collectively, PADDD represents legal processes that temper regulations, shrink boundaries, or eliminate all legal protections originally associated with establishment of a protected area.\n\nPADDD is a phenomenon that has recently gained attention among scientists and policymakers. Scientific publications have identified more than 600 enacted PADDD events in 57 countries, encompassing a total of more than 550,000 km2 of protected lands.\n\nPADDD was a topic of discussion at the World Parks Congress in Sydney, Australia, in November, 2014.\n\nScientists have suggested that the global PADDD trend could be combatted via a systematic programme of protected area \"upgrading,\" whereby conserved wild areas are expanded via the purchase or gazetting of surrounding territory. Successful examples of protected-area upgrading include Gorongosa National Park in Mozambique and the Guanacaste Conservation Area in Costa Rica.\n"}
{"id": "26493907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26493907", "title": "Public Affairs (political party)", "text": "Public Affairs (political party)\n\nPublic Affairs (, VV, nicknamed \"véčkaři\") was a conservative liberal political party in the Czech Republic. Its main platform was transparency and opposition to political corruption. It had 24 seats in the 2010-2013 Chamber of Deputies. The party was led by anti-establishment investigative journalist and writer Radek John, and later by Jiří Kohout.\n\nBesides opposing corruption, the party was fiscally conservative. It had a number of right-wing populist policies, without opposing immigrants, but a proportion of its small membership was closer to the centre-left. The party was supportive of direct democracy – the members of the party could change the course of the party by Internet referendums – and was pro-European Union.\n\nFounded in 2001, the party focused on local politics in Prague, particularly Prague 1, for most of its existence. In June 2009, Radek John was recruited as its chairman, and it emerged in late 2009 as a contender in the 2010 election, polling above the 5% threshold to win seats, and occasionally above KDU-ČSL and the Green Party. John competed with Karel Schwarzenberg for the title of the country's most popular politician.\n\nIn the election, VV received 10.9% of the vote, easily surpassing the 5% threshold, and won 24 seats. The party entered into a governing coalition with the country's two other centre-right parties: the Civic Democratic Party and TOP 09.\n\nIn April 2011, Vít Bárta, Czech Minister of Transport, was accused of bribery by his party colleagues, deputies Jaroslav Škárka, Stanislav Huml, and Kristýna Kočí, who were subsequently expelled from the party. The incident caused serious problems in the Czech government coalition.\n\nA lawsuit involving several members and deputies of the party began to be debated in court on 5 March 2012. Vít Bárta was accused by the State Prosecution of bribery and Jaroslav Škárka of receiving a bribe..\n\nAfter Nečas's cabinet fell, some of the members of Public Affairs split and attempted to form another party called LIDEM, wishing to continue their coalition with ODS and TOP 09. The plan was to have Miroslava Němcová appointed as Prime minister and pass a vote of confidence. However, president Miloš Zeman refused and insted appointed Jiří Rusnok's Cabinet, which was often mockingly called \"Government of Zeman's friends\". This cabinet, however, failed to get confidence from the Chamber. The opposition then called for a dissolution of the Chamber and early elections. Remaining deputies of Public affairs, despite realizing that their party is done for, as polls gave them near zero chance of keeping any seats, voted in favour, and the motion of dissolution was passed with 143 out of 200 votes.\n\nOn 3 September 2013, Bárta announced that Public Affairs would not be standing in the October 2013 legislative election, leading to a split in the party's leadership. Some party members were later elected as candidates of Dawn of Direct Democracy.\n\nTwo years later, in August 2015, the party finally annouced its dissolution. It's chairman Jiří Kohout stated, that the party no longer has enough money for its function. \n\n"}
{"id": "82896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82896", "title": "Ralph Rumney", "text": "Ralph Rumney\n\nRalph Rumney (5 June 1934 – 6 March 2002) was an English artist, born in Newcastle Upon Tyne.\n\nIn 1957 lifelong conscientious objector Rumney - he evaded National Service by going on the run in continental Europe - was one of the co-founders of the London Psychogeographical Association. This organization was, along with COBRA and the Lettrist International, involved in the formation of the Situationist International. Amongst those present at the founding in the Italian village of Cosio d'Arroscia were Walter Olmo, Michèle Bernstein (later his second wife) Asger Jorn, and Guy Debord. However, within seven months Rumney had been 'amiably' expelled from the SI by Debord for allegedly \"failing to hand in a psychogeography report about Venice on time.\"\n\nRumney spent much of his life living as a wanderer, and was variously described as both a 'recluse' and a 'media whore', seeing his existence as a 'permanent adventure and endless experiment.' Rumney married Pegeen Guggenheim, the daughter of Peggy Guggenheim. He moved, as his friend Guy Atkins said, \"between penury and almost absurd affluence. One visited him in a squalid room in London's Neal Street, in a house shared with near down-and-outs. Next, one would find him in Harry's Bar in Venice, or at a Max Ernst opening in Paris. He seemed to take poverty with more equanimity than riches.\" \n\nRalph Rumney died of cancer at his home in Manosque, Provence, France, in 2002, aged 67.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6070309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070309", "title": "Rewards for Justice Program", "text": "Rewards for Justice Program\n\nThe Rewards for Justice Program (RFJ) is the counterterrorism rewards program of the U.S. Department of State's Diplomatic Security Service. The Secretary of State is currently offering rewards for information that prevents or favorably resolves acts of international terrorism against U.S. persons or property worldwide. Rewards also may be paid for information leading to the arrest or conviction of terrorists attempting, committing, conspiring to commit, or aiding and abetting in the commission of such acts. The Rewards for Justice Program has paid more than $145 million for information that prevented international terrorist attacks or helped bring to justice those involved in prior acts.\n\nThe program was established by the 1984 Act to Combat International Terrorism (Public Law 98-533), and it is administered by the State Department's Bureau of Diplomatic Security. The Rewards for Justice Program was formerly known as the Counter-Terror Rewards Program, soon shortened to the HEROES program. In 1993, DS launched www.hereos.net to help publicize reward information. Brad Smith, a DSS special agent assigned to desk duty due to illness, served as the lone site administrator and program manager running the operation from his home. By 1997, the site was getting more than one million hits a year from 102 countries. Smith is also credited with the idea to put photos of wanted terrorists on matchbook covers. DSS agents assigned to embassies and consulates throughout the world ensured that the matchbooks got wide distribution at bars and restaurants. \n\nThe Director of the Diplomatic Security Service chairs an interagency committee which reviews reward candidates and then recommends rewards to the Secretary of State. The committee includes members from the staff of the White House National Security Council, Central Intelligence Agency, Department of Justice, Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security, Department of the Treasury, and the U.S. State Department.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks, the list of wanted terrorists increased dramatically, and rewards were also increased, as part of the U.S. efforts to capture al-Qaeda leadership. However, the plan has been largely ineffective against Islamic terrorists. The largest reward offered was $25 million for the leader of al-Qaeda, Osama bin Laden, which had \"attracted hundreds of anonymous calls but no reliable leads.\" Osama bin Laden was shot and killed inside a private residential compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, by members of the United States Naval Special Warfare Development Group and Central Intelligence Agency operatives in a covert operation on May 1, 2011.\n\nRobert A. Hartung, Assistant Director of Diplomatic Security's Threat Investigations and Analysis Directorate, announced on 2 September 2010 that the U.S. Department of State’s Rewards for Justice (RFJ) program is offering rewards of up to $5 million each for information that leads law enforcement or security forces to Hakimullah Mehsud and Wali ur Rehman. Former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton presented a list of \"the five most wanted terrorists\" to Pakistan; the list included Ayman al-Zawahiri, Mohammed Omar, Ilyas Kashmiri, Atiyah Abd al-Rahman and Sirajuddin Haqqani. Each of these five have bounties issued against them by the program; however, Kashmiri, who US Intelligence officials said they were 99% sure was killed in an airstrike in South Waziristan on June 3, 2011, was removed from the list. Rahman was killed in an airstrike in North Waziristan in August 2011 and was removed from the list. Omar was removed from the list in July 2015 after the Afghan government publicly announced that he had died of tuberculosis in 2013.\nOn December 22, 2011, RFJ announced a reward of up to $10 million for information leading to Ezedin Abdel Aziz Khalil (aka Yasin al-Suri), the leader of an al-Qaeda fundraising network in Iran that transfers money and recruits via Iranian territory to Pakistan and Afghanistan. It marked the first time that RFJ offered a reward for information leading to a terrorist financier.\n\nThe latest Islamic terrorist leaders wanted by the program are Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, for whom $25 million is offered, and Ayman al-Zawahiri, the leader of al-Qaeda, at $25 million.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46845004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46845004", "title": "Surveillance issues in smart cities", "text": "Surveillance issues in smart cities\n\nSmart cities seek to implement information and communication technologies (ICT) in order to improve the efficiency and sustainability of urban spaces while reducing costs and resource consumption. In the context of surveillance, smart cities monitor citizens through strategically placed sensors around the urban landscape, which collect data regarding many different factors of urban living. From these sensors, data is transmitted, aggregated, and analysed by governments and other local authorities in order to extrapolate information about the challenges the city faces in sectors such as crime prevention, traffic management, energy use and waste reduction. This serves to facilitate better urban planning and allows governments to tailor their services to the local population.\n\nSuch technology has been implemented in a number of cities, including Santa Cruz, Barcelona, Amsterdam and Stockholm. Smart city technology has developed practical applications in improving effective law enforcement, the optimization of transportation services, and the improvement of essential infrastructure systems, including providing local government services through e-Governance platforms.\n\nThis constant and omnipresent transmission of data from disparate sources into a single government entity has led to concerns being raised of these systems turning into ‘electronic panopticons’, where governments exploit data driven technologies in order to maximize effective surveillance of their citizens. Such criticism is drawn from privacy factors, as the information sharing flows operate vertically between citizens and the government on a scale that undermines the concept of urban anonymity.\n\nThe most discernible use of smart city technology for Government Surveillance arises in law enforcement, where critics consider the accumulation of intelligence through data collection strategies key to intelligence-based policing. The technology available in smart cities includes extensive CCTV installations (such as in London and Dubai), smart traffic sensors in New York and crime prediction software in Santa Cruz, California. This technology holds the potential to significantly improve the type and volume of information that may be relied upon by law enforcement authorities when dealing with crimes. Most policing technologies developed within smart cities appear to have shifted law enforcement from \"displinary\" to \"actuarial\", with less focus on identifying individual criminals in order to ascribe guilt and a tendency to classify and manage groups based on levels of dangerousness.\n\nGarland's culture of control theory has been used to describe the trend towards proactive policing in smart cities. In Palestine, there have been proposals to introduce GPS-based tracking systems to cars for the purposes of law enforcement within a modern urban environment. Here, the location and speed of every vehicle is recorded and transmitted to the local authority, with a fine issued if the speed of the car exceeds the limit for more than 10 seconds. The technology also holds the potential to relay information regarding accidents and traffic jams, allowing traffic to be rerouted. An extensive camera system in Amsterdam relays data regarding the traffic situation to a central control point, allowing authorities to warn motorists of incidents ahead or adverse weather conditions.\n\nSuch technology has a combined preventative and deterrent effect on motorists committing traffic violations. By controlling the speed of vehicles, authorities may minimize one of the more common risk factors in vehicular crashes. Similarly, by monitoring the location of vehicles through a mix of GPS and camera technology, authorities are able to react in real time to minimize heavy traffic incidents and therefore the likelihood of crashes. Such technology also enables police and emergency authorities to respond instantly to accidents that may occur. The extended ‘reach’ of the ‘long arm of the law’ could thus improve traffic management and efficiency, reducing energy consumption and improving civilians’ safety.\n\nThere is criticism of the use of smart city technology for proactive policing. The constant monitoring of every vehicle's location couples with the panopticon-like concept of continuous law enforcement and introduces a level of individualistic paternalism, where citizens are deemed incapable of obeying traffic laws voluntarily. More controversially, GPS tracking and camera monitoring may be inappropriately suited to other high-risk behaviour (such as drunk driving and fatigue), which are also major factors in traffic accidents. There are also implementation difficulties, as older vehicles lacking GPS equipment would not appear in data streams, severely reducing the accuracy of potential analyses. There is also the risk of arbitrariness within proactive policing. GPS-based speeding enforcement would hold an individual driving above the speed limit for 9 seconds innocent whilst exceeding the limit for 10 seconds would constitute an offence. Such arbitrary measures do not account for the differences in car performance and remove discretion from law enforcement. Extrapolating this lack of discretion across multiple areas of criminal law, with automatic enforcement being implemented as the norm, the potential for unfair outcomes and public dissatisfaction with such technology becomes evident, due to the relatively high risk of non-accountability by governments using these methods.\n\nPredictive techniques in policing are not new, as search warrants are a pre-existing example of authorities acting on the basis of suspicion and prediction in contemporary communities In the context of smart cities, predictive policing is the use of data analytics to determine potential locations of future crime. This data collection often occurs through smartphones carried around by urban populations. Through location-based services in smartphones, the movements of individuals can be tracked and scrutinized by authorities. This has the potential to be particularly effective in crowd control. By comparing the different velocities of individual smartphone users within a certain location, it is possible for law enforcement authorities to ascertain crowd density. This allows for targeted crowd management and prediction of dangers related to excessive crowding. Police are thus able to take appropriate action (such as information broadcasting) in order to reduce the threat of injuries from incidents (such as crowd stampedes), as well as crowd related crime (such as thefts) from occurring.\n\nThis type of policing also allows for law enforcement agencies to ‘predict’ where, when or by whom a crime may occur in the future and respond accordingly. Big data analytical tools are used to identify patterns in crime, allowing authorities to map high risk areas, times and days for certain types of crime. Through such software, police are also able to create profiles of potential criminals and associated behaviours. Developments in technology within smart cities allow for the scope of predictions to be increased as well as the types of responses available to law enforcement bodies.\n\nExperiments conducted in response to a ‘predictive policing algorithm’ based on crime data in Santa Cruz, California, enabled police officers to identify the most likely time and place within a certain locality for a particular crime to be committed. This allowed for targeted patrols to be made with a 4 percent decline in burglaries and 13 additional arrests being recorded within the first 6 months. These figures are preliminary however, and do not account for unreported crime or crime that was prevented through increased police presence.\n\nAlthough it is possible to envisage such law enforcement intervention as becoming the norm where smart city surveillance technologies have been adopted and implemented, predictive policing has raised a number of legal and non-legal controversies. Firstly, the level of criminal activity in a particular area sufficient to warrant extra patrols is unclear when predicting the commission of offences. The point at which the probability of crime becomes statistically significant is one which legal scholars and courts alike have had trouble defining. Within this framework, there is a degree of arbitrariness upon which the weight of the predictive data analysis must be considered, as high crime areas can only be defined with reference to “low levels of crime”.\n\nFurther, in the United States, searches and arrests must be made on grounds of reasonable suspicion under the Fourth Amendment. This means that officers must be able to “point to specific and articulable facts” that “warrant the intrusion”, or make a predictive judgment that the person is in possession of an item that related to the commission of an offence. Similar protections, though not constitutionally based, exist in Australia as well as the UK. The latter was confirmed as binding by the European Court of Human Rights on a number of European nations, which includes civil law states. The ability to formulate such “reasonable suspicion” on the basis of big data algorithms is controversial, with some critics arguing that in the absence of active police corroboration of predictive forecasts, there are insufficient grounds to warrant an arrest. Further, the general nature of predictive forecasts is arguably incompatible with the acceptable standards outlined by the United States Supreme Court with respect to specific individuals. Patterns of crime generated through data analytics are unlikely to generate the level of accurate predictive detail required for police officers to effect an arrest, when compared to informed tip offs. While in the US, courts have allowed profiling to be used in stopping and searching persons in the right context, notable judicial dissents and academic research highlight that profiling lacks probative value. In the UK, a House of Lords Report recommended that such technology be prohibited from use by local authorities, unless they were tied to the investigation of serious criminal offenses. In addition, a major factor in Europe is that predictive policing technology must be exercised in accordance with legislation that is sufficiently clear on the scope of use (foreseeability) and affords persons adequate legal protection from arbitrary uses of predictive data algorithms.\n\nNon-legal controversies also arise over the passive discrimination that predictive policing programs can generate. In New York, a data-driven stop and frisk program was aborted after a US District Court found that the program constituted racial profiling. Roughly 83% of persons stopped under the program were persons of colour. This discrimination was masked through the noise generated by mass data analysis, leading some academics to state that the number of factors within predictive policing algorithms may result in conflicting data and biased sampling. The European Court of Human Rights has also acknowledged the disproportionate targeting of search powers against persons of colour in the UK, highlighting the dangers of smart city technology in predictive policing.\n\nThe concept of smart cities is inherently tied to mass surveillance. The benefits derived from smart city technology are dependent on constant data flows captured and aggregated by sensors, cameras and tracking applications. This persistence surveillance however, raises a number of privacy issues. Mass surveillance through big data acts in a manner that reduces urban anonymity, due to the breadth of information and potential uses which can be extrapolated when multiple data streams are analysed together by a single governmental entity. Advocates of smart cities (such as Vint Cerf) state that this is akin to the level of privacy experienced in small towns. In contrast, critics state that information sharing in smart cities has shifted from horizontal information flows between citizens to a vertical, unilateral process between citizen and government, reflecting concerns about panopticism.\n\nSmart city applications often collate and analyse distinct sources of data in order to improve government services to operate more efficiently and effectively. Urban residents have few alternatives other than to subscribe to these services, particularly when making use of essential infrastructure, and thus indirectly and involuntarily consent to the sensors and surveillance technologies deployed throughout the urban environment through the mere act of residency. In Amsterdam, wireless meters collect data about energy usage, while the Mobypark app allows for the advertisement and renting of available parking spaces. The information collected across these and over 70 other projects in Amsterdam is stored by the City of Amsterdam via a common IP infrastructure. Considering that data from these services is accessible by a primary governmental body it allows for the possibility of data which is collected from these ‘distinct’ sources to be aggregated.\n\nBig data often refers to the use of data analysis and mapping algorithms generate valuable insights from seemingly disparate datasets. The implications of applying such analysis to aggregated data sets are that they allow for a more holistic view of the needs of a particular community to be formed. Within smart cities, this data can be used as a reflexive tool when implemented within the urban ICT framework allowing the Government to better meet the goals of smart cities – improved livability, efficiency and sustainability. Such benefits were found in Barcelona, where tracking of residents commuting patterns led to a revamp and simplification of the city’s bus routes. Combined with the implementation of smart traffic lights that allow for central control, buses in Barcelona now run to a schedule that attempts to minimize the amount of time spent waiting at traffic lights.\n\nBig data analysis is not without flaws in its approach This is particularly true when applied to law enforcement, or where data is collected without the willing cooperation and consent of parties involved. Critics argue that there is an element of \"mythology\" surrounding big data that larger data sets offer deeper insights into urban issues with higher levels of accuracy and objectivity.\n\nThe increasing significance attributed to big data analytics, particularly within smart cities, gives rise to a situation where government bodies place an ‘almost faith-based’ reliance upon the veracity of results that have been predicted by analyzing surveilled data.\n\nIn the absence of critical insight however, reliance on data alone has little support, as seen in the legal doctrine of reasonable suspicion. Traditionally, decisions to apprehend or search an individual in sole reliance upon personal “hunches” were deemed to fail the legal standard of reasonable cause. In this regard, it is difficult to see how data-driven hunches can be considered more reliable. Both elicit assumptions being made based on inferences drawn from observable data, which can be falsified or otherwise inaccurate, undermining the integrity of the process.\n\nCritics of the increasing role played by data-based surveillance for the purposes of law enforcement foresee that such reliance could lead to issues in prosecuting individuals based on a probability-based crime system. Furthermore, such a system holds the potential for conclusions to be drawn by attributing weighting to certain characteristics of an individual – an approach which could inadvertently mask any discriminatory agendas held by law enforcement bodies potentially targeting certain minorities. Adding to the potential for discrimination, many big data algorithms often create new categories that exceed the scope of regulations designed to prevent against the unfair or discriminatory use of data.\n\nOutside law enforcement, critics argue that smart cities facilitate a shift to e-governance platforms, often at the expense of physical interactions with citizens. While e-governance can improve service delivery and expand the ability to collect data from a single platform, such processes may be at the expense of competitiveness and based merely on a technology push for more data sources and aggregation mechanisms. As a result, the desire for increased surveillance undermines a fundamental aim of most smart cities to improve efficiency and effectiveness, as the citizens’ desire for certain ICT applications is ignored at the expense of further data aggregation. An example of this controversy has arisen in the UK, where proposals for a Scottish identity card were met with public outcry, while similar cards have been implemented in Southampton with little trouble, as many city services are provided in exchange for data collection.\n\nThe normalization of the collection and aggregation of big data by Governments raises issues of privacy and autonomy. Part of this is fuelled by feature creep, where technologies and applications that were perceived to be ‘creepy’ until recently have now become socially acceptable. Much of the concern surrounds the inconvenience and inability for citizens to opt out of new technologies where they form part of essential government services, as there are few alternatives. Should an individual wish to appear “off the grid” they are forced to employ a range of tedious measures (such as paying in cash only and not utilizing a mobile phone) in order to reduce their data footprint. Despite this, such tactics would only minimize and not eliminate their collectable data.\n\nPrivacy concerns are raised where the data collected may be capable of linking to or identifying an individual, particularly when collated from multiple information sources. The storage of data by governments remains opaque, while the potential for cross-sharing data across government services often means that data is accessible by parties that the provider did not intend to share the data with. By mere participation as a member of an urban community, particularly through the use of essential urban services and infrastructure, an individual is placed at risk of having their data shared amongst multiple platforms and users. While individually such data may not identify the person providing it, when combined with other data in the set, such data may be considered as personally identifiable information (PII), and thus fall under strict privacy laws. The constantly evolving uses of smart cities technology do not often fit neatly into privacy law frameworks, which may be extremely broad, like in Australia, where a discussion paper published by the Australian Law Reform Commission confirmed that anonymised data may still be PII. Similar regimes exist in the United States and the European Union (see: Data Protection Directive). In Europe, Government technology that interferes on privacy must be based on a \"pressing social need\" or otherwise \"necessary in a democratic society\" and be proportional to the legitimate aims espoused. This means that authorities implementing smart cities regimes are at risk of violating privacy laws if appropriate safeguards are not taken. The European Court of Human Rights has held that surveillance mechanisms (including those implemented in smart cities technologies) can violate the right to privacy, especially where domestic legislation does not define the scope or manner of surveillance. Conversely, individuals may find that their data has been used illegally in the implementation of smart cities technology. As much smart city technology is based on open platforms that are often outsourced to private citizens and corporations, there are massive risks that PII may be unlawfully shared to third parties. Compounded with the relative opaqueness of data storage by governments, critics argue that individual privacy can be curtailed massively through residence in a smart city with little recourse for individuals.\n\nGovernment surveillance is arguably driven by paternalistic desires to protect citizens, however the individualistic and tailor-made benefits delivered by smart city technology may reduce autonomy. This holds particularly true in light of the shift towards predictive policing that occurs within the smart city environment. Whilst nobly intended, such unilateral actions by a Government may be seen as oppressive – with the omnipotent role assumed by the Government seen as giving rise to that of a panoptic institution. Modern cities are increasingly valuing privacy and digital security, as evidenced by the latest “The Economist Safest Cities Index 2015”, where a Digital Security metric was incorporated alongside traditional measures of safety such as Personal Security and Health.\n\nThe English philosopher Jeremy Bentham created a circular prison design, known as the Panopticon, whereby prisoners knew that they were capable of being observed at any time without their knowledge – thus affording the prison officers a position of omnipresence.\n\nThe French philosopher Michel Foucault re-conceptualized the notion of a panopticon as a metaphor for a ‘disciplinary society’, wherein power relations (and imbalances) can be defined and reinforced. In such a society power is seen to approach its ideal form by increasing the number of people who can be controlled.\n\nIn this regard, the development of smart cities and the resulting increase in the surveillance capacity of the Government gives rise to conditions which mirror that of the disciplinary society described by Foucault. To this end, the development of smart cities are seen by its critics to foreshadow a larger societal shift - particularly the role adopted by the Government - towards mass surveillance, paternalism, discipline and punishment as a means to attain social order, particularly in the United States, where the “Internet of Things” is being used to collect increasingly specific data. The commodification of surveillance in exchange for services has tended to normalise data collection and create indifference to panoptic developments in technology. One of the major issues with Panopticism in the Smart Cities context is that the 'surveillance gaze' is mediated by the selective biases of the operators of any application or technology, as was shown by a study on the use of CCTV cameras in the UK, where the \"usual suspects\" tended to be targeted more frequently. In Durban, this panoptic \"gaze\" extends based on CCTV operator intuition due to a normalisation of the characteristics of criminals. Compounding these issues, digitally based panopticism usually views the \"visibility\" of undesirable characteristics as the problem, and often fails to adequately address matters that are invisible to the surveillance gaze.\n\nIf a shift toward mass surveillance came to fruition, it could give rise to the development of an electronic police state as a result of the increased surveillance capabilities and law enforcement activities. This represents a distinct narrowing of the purpose of surveillance to that of maintaining social order via improved law enforcement. Van Brakel argues that these changes have already taken place, and that the focus of police has gradually moved towards \"front-loading\" their intelligence systems with relevant knowledge that can be later sorted and used. Supporting this institutionalised shift, the House of Lords in the UK argued in 2009 that an advantage of surveillance activities is the ability for the government to provide a more tailored approach to governance, and by extension, law enforcement.\n\nIn seeking a middle ground between the societal benefits afforded by big data and the resulting loss of privacy and autonomy, academics have proposed a number of solutions. Deakin argues that “smart cities” are not simply those that utilize ICT, but where such intelligence is tailored to meet the needs of citizens through community and environmental drivers. Komninos refers to the three layers of intelligence in smart cities as the artificial intelligence of smart city infrastructure, the collective intelligence of the city’s institutions and the intelligence of the city’s populations. By integrating these layers in the implementation process, smart cities may be able to overcome the issues of government opacity that plague them. One of the issues with establishing a legal framework for smart city technology is determining whether to take a technology-specific or technology-neutral approach. Many technologies have developed too rapidly to be covered by a single technology-specific regime, while a technology-neutral approach risks being too ambiguous to encourage use or development of the regulated technology. Further, most applications are too benign to be regulated, while other more controversial technologies tend to be enabled by the creation of legislation, such as the \"Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000\", which established scenarios where police were able to carry out surveillance, with or without authorisation. A challenge to these laws is currently pending in the European Court of Human Rights, reinforcing the difficulty of establishing a suitable legal regime. One potential legal solution in the UK has been the development of the tort of misuse of private information, which the English Court of Appeal held could potentially be breached by data collection, for which damages may be claimed.\n\nStudies conducted by Deakin and Campbell in 2005 identified three types of interaction between citizens and smart cities. They concluded that citizens desire accessible and reliable information and seamless and responsive governments during transactions. Further, any consultation with the community needed to be transparent and based on democratic engagement and accountability. Bennett Moses et al. hold that the success of data-driven technologies is based on technical, social and normative dimensions. This means that smart city technologies must satisfy citizens of their effectiveness, have a major beneficial impact that encourages uptake and align with generally acceptable ethics and values.\n\nA potential solution to bridge the divide between the competing benefits and costs of big data surveillance is to turn the management of personal information into a ‘joint venture’. Increasing awareness of how, where and why data is collected by the Government establishes the groundwork for a non-adversarial approach to the use of data within smart cities. This process minimizes perceptions of secrecy, and cities that invest in multiple points of access, such as Barcelona with its Open Government platform have seen growth in the use of smart city applications.\n\nFurthermore, this process has developed to allow individuals to access their own data in a usable format, as seen through Barcelona’s Open Data project. In this way autonomy is regained both in relation to awareness of how an individual is affected by the collection of data as well as participation in the actual application of this data to generate information, as new technologies are developed.\n\nIn addition to general awareness of the intended purpose of data collection ‘before the fact’, accountability processes ‘after the fact’ are also required. A potential measure is for responsible parties to be notified where some sort of discriminatory decision is made, thus allowing appropriate action to be taken. In data-driven processes, particularly in the fields of law enforcement, it is difficult to attribute responsibility to a single body or source, as often the information is derived from a number of different locations. Further, opacity is often essential to predictive policing technologies, as transparency may encourage potential offenders to alter their behaviour to avoid detection.\n\nTransparency processes however remain crucial to ensure that a panoptic view or electronic police state cannot be imposed, as it allows for a review of how decisions are made in relation to them and what criteria this is based upon. Accountability is particularly relevant in the implementation stage\n\nThe implementation stage of smart city technology is considered to be crucial, as the applications and platforms must be grounded in the “social capital, environmental and cultural attributes of the communities they represent”. Paskaleva notes that e-governance platforms are particularly suited to democratically generating community support where residents are able to participate in the decision making and implementation process. Confirming this, studies by Deakin et al. highlight that community backlash to smart city technology is minimized where e-government services are co-designed by governments and communities. An example of collaboration at an extreme level was seen in Bletchley Park, where the Nazi Enigma cypher was decoded in what is often referred to as the first smart city. More recently, citizen participation has been encouraged in Edinburgh, where citizens are invited to ICT ‘taster’ sessions in local venues, enabling them to learn about the planning, development and design of new smart city technologies. Such partnerships incorporate elements of democracy and highlight how digitally inclusive decision making generates the requisite level of trust to support the implementation of smart city technology. Trust acts as an empowering and engaging mechanism for citizens according to Finch and Tene. This empowerment intelligence allows citizens to upskill and assist in the development of innovative smart city networks, addressing areas not contemplated by authorities. In Hong Kong, such development takes place in the Cyberport Zone, while in Amsterdam, “Smart Citizens Labs” are designed for interaction between citizens and government. These mechanisms have resulted in large levels of enthusiasm for smart city technology, as evidenced by the numerous crowd-sourced Amsterdam Smart City projects to date.\n\nThe Triple Helix Model for Smart cities, combining university, industry and government in the development process is regarded as a potential benchmark for smart city development and implementation. Kourtit et al. advance that this model implements the knowledge generated from collaboration to tailor smart city applications to market needs. Empirical studies conducted on smart cities in the Netherlands compared the level of ICT penetration to the city’s level of smartness under the Triple Helix Metric, finding a strong positive correlation. A live example of the Triple Helix Model in practice can be seen in the Kista Science City business cluster in Stockholm. Underpinned by the Stokab Model of government provisioned dark fibre, more than 1000 companies including multinational Ericsson, the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) and Stockholm University reside in Kista, which has grown to become the largest corporate area in Sweden. The success of Kista highlights the usefulness of the Triple Helix Model in Smart City implementation and provides a potential platform for cities seeking to introduce smart city technology in a manner that optimizes resident uptake.\n\nWhen considering the potential for privacy law breaches, particularly within the smart cities context containing a vast scope of data that is available to the Government, data may often need to be de-identified to maintain privacy. Whilst this may make it difficult to reconcile data collected from multiple services, it could still allow for the useful collection and aggregation of data for defined purposes. The E-CAF system (Common Assessment Framework), where a database of all children assessed by government services (including police, social services and schools) is maintained by the UK Government, highlights how anonymity is fading due to data-driven technologies. The system allows authorities to predict which children will commit crime in the future and allow them to intervene, based on a number of risk factors and profiling. It is evident that citizens captured by the database as children will no longer be \"anonymous\" members of society. Given the potential Government presumption that parties unwilling to share their information are inherently suspicious, the difficulty of maintaining anonymity in modern smart cities is clearly quite high.\n\n"}
{"id": "2854797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854797", "title": "Tato Bores", "text": "Tato Bores\n\nMauricio Borensztein (27 April 1927 – 11 January 1996), known by the stage name Tato Bores, was an Argentine film, theatre and television comedian, who specialized in political humor. His ironic TV monologues, delivered at a fast pace, became a reference point for generations of Argentines.\n\nHe was born into a family of Polish Jewish heritage. He took his first steps into the humor field in 1957, after the fall of Juan Perón, debuting in state-owned Channel 7. When in character, he wore dress coat, white bow tie and a deliberately badly cut wig, and waved a cigar. Besides the monologues, at some point during each show he pretended to dial the number of the Casa Rosada and speak to the President (whoever it was at the time), asking pointed questions or commenting on uncomfortable news.\n\nNear the end of his life, Borensztein abandoned the weekly show format and resorted to \"special programmes\" every month or sometimes more often. In one of these, he appeared as Dr. Helmut Strasse, \"argentinologist\", an archeologist specialized in the lost land of Argentina, which had sunk into the Atlantic Ocean 500 years before the fictional time frame of the show. The show was a humorous mockumentary about the downfall of Argentina where Borensztein, speaking in a mixture of Yiddish, German and some odd words in Spanish, overdubbed into straight Spanish by a narrator, commented on the latest findings and theories while he toured a digging site.\n\nBefore the broadcast of one of the programmes, federal judge María Servini de Cubría was warned that the show contained an ironic comment about a ridiculously low fine she had received for mishandling a case. Servini ordered the offending segment to be cut out, and forbade Borensztein to mention her name. This violated free speech, since the programme had not been broadcast and she had not verified it was criminally offensive. Borensztein received overwhelming support from the artistic community of Argentina, but respected the judicial order, from then on referring to the judge as \"the unnameable\" or as \"Jueza Barubudubudía\" (intended as a nonsensical yet transparent rhyme of \"Servini de Cubría\") until the censorship was lifted.\n\n\nHe is the father of Alejandro Borensztein, Sebastián Borensztein and Marina Borensztein.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "490468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=490468", "title": "Tonton Macoute", "text": "Tonton Macoute\n\nThe Tonton Macoute () or simply the Macoute was a special operations unit within the Haitian paramilitary force created in 1959 by dictator François \"Papa Doc\" Duvalier. In 1970 the militia was renamed the ' (VSN\"', Volunteers of the National Security). Haitians named this force after the Haitian mythological bogeyman, \"Tonton Macoute\" (\"Uncle Gunnysack\"), who kidnaps and punishes unruly children by snaring them in a gunny sack () and carrying them off to be consumed at breakfast.\n\nAfter the July 1958 Haitian coup d'état attempt against President François Duvalier, he purged the army and law enforcement agencies in Haiti and executed numerous officers as he perceived them as a threat to his regime. To counteract this threat, he created a military force that bore several names. In 1959, his paramilitary force was called the \"Cagoulards\" (\"Hooded Men\"). They were then renamed to Milice Civile (\"Civilian Militia\"), and after 1962, Volontaires de la Sécurité Nationale (\"Volunteers of the National Security\", or VSN). They began to be called the \"Tonton Macoute\" when people started to disappear for no apparent reason. This group answered to him only.\n\nDuvalier authorized the \"Tontons Macoutes\" to commit systematic violence and human rights abuses to suppress political opposition. They were responsible for unknown numbers of murders and rapes in Haiti. Political opponents often disappeared overnight, or were sometimes attacked in broad daylight. \"Tontons Macoutes\" stoned and burned people alive. Many times they put the corpses of their victims on display, often hung in trees for everyone to see and take as warnings against opposition. Family members who tried to remove the bodies for proper burial often disappeared themselves. Anyone who challenged the VSN risked assassination. Their unrestrained state terrorism was accompanied by corruption, extortion and personal aggrandizement among the leadership. The victims of \"Tontons Macoutes\" could range from a woman in the poorest of neighborhoods who had previously supported an opposing politician to a businessman who refused to comply with extortion threats (ostensibly as donations for public works, but which were in fact the source of profit for corrupt officials and even President Duvalier). The \"Tontons Macoutes\" murdered between 30,000 and 60,000 Haitians.\n\nLuckner Cambronne led the \"Tontons Macoute\" throughout the 1960s and the beginning of the 1970s. His cruelty earned him the nickname \"Vampire of the Caribbean\". This particular name was earned by one of his endeavors of extorting plasma from locals for sale. Luckner did this through his company \"Hemocaribian\" and shipped five tons of plasma per month to US Labs. He would also go on to sell cadavers to medical schools after buying them from Haitian hospitals for $3 per corpse. When the Hospital could not supply this the local funeral homes would be used. In 1971, President Duvalier died and his widow Simone, and son Jean-Claude Duvalier ordered Cambronne into exile. Cambronne moved to Miami, Florida, USA where he lived until his death in 2006.\n\nWhen François Duvalier came to power in 1957 Vodou was becoming celebrated for its purely Haitian heritage by the Intellectuals, or the Griots after having been let go for years by those with education. The \"Tonton Macoute\" was heavily influenced by Vodou tradition with denim uniforms resembling clothing like Azaka Medeh the patron of farmers and the use of the machete in symbolic reference to Ogou a great general in Vodou tradition. \n\nSome of the most important members of the \"Tontons Macoute\" were Vodou leaders. This religious affiliation gave the \"Tontons Macoute\" a kind of unearthly authority in the eyes of the public. From their methods to their choice of clothes, Vodou always played an important role in their actions. The \"Tonton Macoutes\" wore straw hats, blue denim shirts and dark glasses, and were armed with machetes and guns. Both their allusions to the supernatural and their physical presentations were used with the intention of instilling fear and respect. Even their title of Tonton Macoute was embedded in Haitian lore of a bogeyman who took children away in his satchel or his Makoute.\n\nThe \"Tontons Macoute\" were a ubiquitous presence at the polls in the 1961 election, in which Duvalier's official vote count was an \"outrageous\" and fraudulent , electing him to another term. They appeared in force again at polls in 1964, when Duvalier held a rigged referendum that declared him President for Life.\n\nIn 1985 the United States began to shut down funds to Haitian aid cutting nearly a million dollars from it within a year. Nonetheless the regime pushed forward and even had a national party for the \"Tontons Macoute\". \"Tonton Macoute\" day was July 29, 1985 and amongst festivities the group was bestowed new uniforms and was honored by all of Baby Docs Cabinet. In exuberance of celebration the \"Tonton Macoute\" went out into the streets and shot twenty-seven people in total for the national party. \n\nThe lack of funds coming to the \"Tonton Macoute\" was result of being intercepted by the Duvalier dynasty who were sometimes taking nearly eighty percent of international aid to Haiti, then turning around to only pay forty-five percent of the debts the country owed. This continued until the \"Tonton Macoute\" were left on their own when Baby Doc fled the country with an estimated $900m. \n\nThe \"Tonton Macoutes\" remained active even after the presidency of \"Papa Doc\" Duvalier's son \"Baby Doc\" ended with the Anti-Duvalier protest movement 1986. Massacres led by paramilitary groups spawned from the \"Macoutes\" continued during the following decade. The most feared paramilitary group during the 1990s was the Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haïti (FRAPH), which \"Toronto Star\" journalist Linda Diebel described as modern \"Tonton Macoutes\", and not the legitimate political party they claimed to be. \n\nLed by Emmanual Constant, FRAPH differed from the \"Tonton Macoute\" in their denial to submit to the will of a single authority and their cooperation with regular military forces. FRAPH extended its reach far outside that of the Hatian state and had offices present in New York, Montreal and Miami until its disarmament and disband in 1994.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21363512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21363512", "title": "Traffic Light Protocol", "text": "Traffic Light Protocol\n\nThe Traffic Light Protocol (TLP) was originally created in the early 2000s by the UK Government's National Infrastructure Security Coordination Centre (NISCC, now Centre for Protection of National Infrastructure - CPNI) to encourage greater sharing of sensitive information. \n\nThe fundamental concept is for the originator to signal how widely they want their information to be circulated beyond the immediate recipient. It is designed to improve the flow of information between individuals, organizations or communities in a controlled and trusted way. It is important that everyone who handles TLP-labeled communications understands and obeys the rules of the protocol. Only then can trust be established and the benefits of information sharing realized. The TLP is based on the concept of the originator labeling information with one of four colors to indicate what further dissemination, if any, can be undertaken by the recipient. The recipient must consult the originator if wider dissemination is required.\n\nA number of current specifications for TLP exist:\n\nThere are four colors (or traffic lights):\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41123562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41123562", "title": "Unconditional cash transfer", "text": "Unconditional cash transfer\n\nUnconditional cash transfer (UCT) programs aim to reduce poverty by providing welfare programs without any conditions upon the receivers' actions. This differentiates them from conditional cash transfers where the government (or a charity) only transfers the money to persons who meet certain criteria. Unconditional cash transfers have developed on the premise that giving cash to citizens allows them to have autonomy over their own lives.\n\nUnconditional cash transfers could vary in a number of ways:\n\n\nThe largest organization exclusively devoted to cash transfers is GiveDirectly. GiveDirectly was founded by economics graduate students in Cambridge, Massachusetts, with two main inspirations: the growing evidence that cash transfers could work, and the growth of cheap and reliable money transfer technology. GiveDirectly's operations were initially limited to Kenya, where the m-Pesa money transfer system is well-established. In November 2013, the organization expanded to Uganda.\n\nCharity evaluator GiveWell first noticed GiveDirectly in July 2011, named it as a standout charity in November 2011, and gave it top charity status starting November 2012. GiveDirectly has been a GiveWell top charity in the years 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015. Largely as a result of GiveWell's recommendation, Good Ventures, the private foundation of Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz and his wife Cari Tuna, that works closely with GiveWell, has donated well over $40 million to GiveDirectly (in grant sizes of $7 million, $5 million, $25 million, and $9.8 million).\n\nAn impact evaluation of GiveDirectly's cash transfer program was conducted in collaboration with GiveDirectly, with the working paper released in October 2013. The paper attracted commentary from World Bank economist David McKenzie. He praised the robustness of the study's design and the clear disclosure of the study lead's conflict of interest, but raised two concerns:\n\n\nChris Blattman, a prominent blogger and academic in the area of development economics, with a particular focus on randomized controlled trials, also blogged the study. He expressed two main reservations:\n\n\nThe Cash Learning Partnership(CaLP) is a partnership of over 150 organizations and over 5000 individuals in the humanitarian sector where they pool knowledge and expertise surrounding cash transfers and their effects. Their website includes a number of studies on unconditional cash transfers, with a particular focus on cash transfers made in the aftermath of natural disasters. Salient examples include:\n\n\nThe Electronic Cash Transfer Learning Action Network (ELAN) within CaLP has also worked with Mercy Corps, and Humanitarian Policy Group (HPG) on case studies for humanitarian electronic transfer projects in Ethiopia, Zimbabwe, and Bangladesh. These case studies Examine the extent to which: \n\nA blog post by Vishnu Prasad for the Institute for Financial Management and Research summarized existing research on unconditional cash transfers, citing studies around the following programs:\n\n\nJeremy Shapiro, a GiveDirectly co-founder and the person who published GiveDirectly's impact evaluation, has argued for using cash transfers (and more specifically, unconditional cash transfers) as a benchmark against which other development interventions should be evaluated, due to the simplicity and scalability of cash transfers.\n\nOthers who have also endorsed the idea of using cash transfers as a benchmark, citing GiveDirectly, include Innovations for Poverty Action and GiveWell.\n\nSince 2012, there have been a number of media pieces discussing cash transfers, generally in the context of reporting on GiveDirectly. This includes coverage in the \"New York Times\", \"The Economist\", the \"Freakonomics\" radio podcast, and \"Forbes\".\n\nA team of the Cochrane Collaboration including researchers from Cornell University, Harvard University, and the Universities of Bremen and Otago conducted the first comprehensive systematic review of the health impact of unconditional cash transfers. The review of 21 studies, including 16 randomized controlled trials, found that unconditional cash transfers may not improve health services use. However, they lead to a large, clinically meaningful reduction in the likelihood of being sick by an estimated 27%. Unconditional cash transfers may also improve food security and dietary diversity. Children in recipient families are more likely to attend school, and the cash transfers may increase money spent on health care.<ref name=\"doi10.1002/14651858.CD011135.pub2\"></ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "6738447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6738447", "title": "Union 55+", "text": "Union 55+\n\nUnion 55+ (in Dutch: \"Unie 55+\") was a Dutch pensioners' political party. The Union was somewhat successful in the 1994 elections but disappeared four years later.\n\nUnion 55+ was founded on 24 September 1992. During the 1994 election campaign one of the governing parties, CDA announced that it would cut government pensions. This made Union 55+ very attractive to the elderly. The party won one seat. The General Elderly Alliance (Algemeen Ouderen Verbond, AOV), another party seeking to represent the elderly won six seats. The two parties had formed an electoral alliance. The party's sole representative was Bertus Leerkes. While the six members of the AOV spent their time fighting with each other, Leerkes became a well-respected spokesperson for the elderly. The party continually sought to cooperate with the AOV. In 1995 they formed communal lists for the 1995 provincial elections. Before the 1998 general elections Union 55+ formed a new party with the AOV, the Elderly Union (Ouderenunie). They were unable to win a seat.\n\nThe party was a typical one issue party: it sought to better the position of the elderly with higher government pensions, better healthcare and improved facilities for elderly and handicapped. Other issues it spoke out on were increasing youth criminality, directly elected mayors and a restrictive immigration policy.\n\nSome of the party's founders had been active within other parties such as the social-democratic PvdA and the socialist SP, but they felt that the larger parties neglected the interests of the elderly. They thought that it was time for the formation of 'horizontal' parties, which were not based on certain ideologies, but certain age groups.\n\nThis table shows Union 55+'s results in elections to the House of Representatives and Senate, as well as the party's political leadership: the fractievoorzitter, is the chair of the parliamentary party and the lijsttrekker is the party's top candidate in the general election, these posts are normally taken by the party's leader. \n\nThe party was supported by elderly, especially by former CDA-voters from the Southern provinces, North Brabant and Limburg. \n\nThe party can be compared to other , who often don't get a seat, but because of the extreme proportional representation in the Netherlands the party was able to win one seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "75289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75289", "title": "United States Fish and Wildlife Service", "text": "United States Fish and Wildlife Service\n\nThe United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS or FWS) is an agency of the federal government within the U.S. Department of the Interior dedicated to the management of fish, wildlife, and natural habitats. The mission of the agency is \"working with others to conserve, protect, and enhance fish, wildlife, plants and their habitats for the continuing benefit of the American people.\" \n\nAmong the responsibilities of the FWS are enforcing federal wildlife laws, protecting endangered species, managing migratory birds, restoring nationally significant fisheries, conserving and restoring wildlife habitat (such as wetlands), helping foreign governments with their international conservation efforts, and distributing money to states' fish and wildlife agencies through the Wildlife Sport Fish and Restoration program. \n\nUnits within the FWS include:\n\nThe vast majority of fish and wildlife habitat is on non-federal land. Therefore, the FWS works closely with private groups (such as Partners in Flight, Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council) to promote voluntary habitat conservation and restoration.\n\nThe FWS employs approximately 9,000 people and is organized into a central administrative office (in Falls Church, VA), the hallway where directorate members sit at the Department of the Interior (in Washington, DC), eight regional offices, and nearly 700 field offices distributed throughout the United States.\n\nThe FWS originated in 1871 as the United States Commission on Fish and Fisheries, more commonly referred to as the United States Fish Commission, created by the United States Congress with the purpose of studying and recommending solutions to a noted decline in the stocks of food fish. Spencer Fullerton Baird was appointed its first commissioner. In 1903, the Fish Commission was reorganized as the United States Bureau of Fisheries.\n\nIn 1885–1886, the Division of Economic Ornithology and Mammalogy (in 1885 it was the Section of Economic Ornithology) was established within the United States Department of Agriculture. In 1896 it became the Division of Biological Survey. Its early work focused on the effect of birds in controlling agricultural pests and mapping the geographical distribution of plants and animals in the United States. Clinton Hart Merriam headed the Bureau for 25 years and became a national figure for improving the scientific understanding of birds and mammals in the United States. Jay Norwood Darling was appointed Chief of the new Bureau of Biological Survey in 1934; the same year Congress passed the \"Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act\" (FWCA), one of the oldest federal environmental review statutes. Under Darling's guidance, the Bureau began an ongoing legacy of protecting vital natural habitat throughout the country. The FWS was finally created in 1940, when the Bureaus of Fisheries and Biological Survey were combined after being moved to the Department of the Interior. In 1959, the methods used by FWS's Animal Damage Control Program were featured in the Tom Lehrer song \"Poisoning Pigeons in the Park\".\n\nThe Service governs six National Monuments:\n\n\nPursuant to the eagle feather law, Title 50, Part 22 of the Code of Federal Regulations (50 CFR 22), and the \"Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act\", the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service administers the National Eagle Repository and the permit system for Native American religious use of eagle feathers. These exceptions often only apply to Native Americans that are registered with the federal government and are enrolled with a federally recognized tribe.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, the FWS began to incorporate the research of tribal scientists into conservation decisions. This came on the heels of Native American traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) gaining acceptance in the scientific community as a reasonable and respectable way to gain knowledge of managing the natural world. Additionally, other natural resource agencies within the United States government, such as the USDA, have taken steps to be more inclusive of tribes, native people, and tribal rights. This has marked a transition to a relationship of more co-operation rather than the tension between tribes and government agencies seen historically. Today, these agencies work closely with tribal governments to ensure the best conservation decisions are made and that tribes retain their sovereignty .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15293328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15293328", "title": "Water conflicts between Malaysia and Singapore", "text": "Water conflicts between Malaysia and Singapore\n\nSingapore and Malaysia have a long-standing conflict over water supplies.\nThe first water agreement was signed between Sultan Ibrahim II the Sultan of Johor and the Municipal Commissioners of the Town of Singapore on 5 December 1927, under the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements. It is no longer in force.\n\nOn 1 September 1961, the Federation of Malaya signed an agreement giving Singapore the right to draw up to of water per day collectively from the Tebrau River, the Skudai River, the Pontian Reservoir, and the Gunung Pulai Reservoir, with effect through 2011. On 29 September 1962, a further agreement was signed providing Singapore the right to draw up to per day from the Johor River, with effect until 2061. Both agreements stipulated the price of 3 Malaysian cents per .\n\nIn 1994, Linggiu Reservoir was built upstream of the Johor River and collects and releases rainwater. This pushes seawater back into the sea, ensuring that the river water is not too salty to be treated. It is operated by the Public Utilities Board (PUB) of Singapore.\n\nThe Malaysian government has stated that the agreements were signed in a different time and that the price should increase. It cites the example of water sold by China to Hong Kong in the past, which was approximately US$5.8 per . However, this price comparison is not directly applicable because while Hong Kong has borne the cost of constructing the infrastructure and China has borne the cost of maintaining to provide water to Hong Kong, Singapore paid for all the costs of the reservoirs in Johor, the dams, pipelines, plant, equipment, etc., and Singapore paid all costs of operating and maintaining the infrastructure.\n\nOn 31 August 2011, the 2011 water agreement expired, and the waterworks and facilities were handed over to the Johor state government. The handover included the Skudai and Gunung Pulai water treatment plants, which were built by the Public Utilities Board and managed by them for 50 years, as well as two pump houses in Pontian and Tebrau.\n\nOn 25 June 2018, Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamed stated his intentions of renegotiating the agreement with Singapore as he views the low price at which water is being exported to Singapore has resulted in Malaysia losing a significant amount of revenue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8493805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8493805", "title": "Win-3 Habitat", "text": "Win-3 Habitat\n\nThe Win-3 Habitat is a small wooden structure intended for use as single person emergency shelter primarily for housing homeless individuals. The Win-3 Habitat utilizes no internal frame-type bracing whatsoever. Unit strength is derived from specially built corner pieces which act as load bearing structural intersections. Win-3 Habitats are built from 1/2\" grade CD plywood. Four acrylic glass windows allow adequate illumination during daylight hours and four vents provide sufficient ventilation at all other times. Careful dimensioning of the Win-3 Habitat allows for thirty disassembled units to fit into a single high cube shipping container. When not in use, the Win-3 Habitats can be disassembled and returned to the container. Assembly and disassembly time utilizing two workers is fifteen minutes per unit. Win-3 Habitats can easily be cleaned and sanitized between each use and have an indefinite storage life. \n\nThe Win-3 Habitat was designed by naval architect Vernon Koenig and is manufactured by Stratodyne, Inc., located in Yucaipa, California. In addition to the Win-3 Habitat, Stratodyne also manufactures emergency disaster shelters and low cost kit-built homes for third world countries.\n"}
{"id": "49840666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49840666", "title": "Wings for Life World Run", "text": "Wings for Life World Run\n\nThe Wings for Life World Run is a running competition held on the first weekend of May since 2014 to collect funds for the not-for-profit foundation \"Wings for Life\". The entry fee goes completely to the foundation.\n\nThe Wings for Life World Run is peculiar in that participants don't have to run a specific distance like in comparable competitions. A car rides on the track half an hour after the start. Overtaken participants are eliminated until just one, the winner, remains. The run also takes place in 34 or 35 locations around the world at the same time and is broadcast live on Red Bull TV.\n\nThe not-for-profit foundation \"Wings for Life\" was established by the two-time motocross world champion Heinz Kinigadner and the Red Bull founder Dietrich Mateschitz in 2004. Its goal is to find a treatment for spinal cord injuries and paraplegia. Therefore, the foundation supports research and studies about spinal cord and spinal cord injuries financially. Anita Gerhardter is CEO. Founder Kinigadner himself is concerned because his brother and his son, both motocross riders too, are bounded to wheelchairs after injuries.\n\nAfter two years of preparations the first Wings for Life World Run was started on May 4, 2014 to raise funds and at the same time arouse attention on limitations and medical problems of paraplegic persons. Following the success of the first edition the race is now an annual event. According to the official Website the idea to organize a worldwide race where the last man standing would be the winner, came during a lay-over at the airport in Moscow.\n\nThe race is open to everybody, professionals as well as members or non-members of running clubs. The entry fee is donated entirely to the foundation, the main sponsor Red Bull covers the costs of the event. The fees vary somewhat depending on the choice of location and the time of sign up. 40.00 GBP are due to take part in Great Britain, 50.00 USD to take part in the United States, but it is also possible to augment the donation during the registration process. So far 3 million and 4.2 million euro of donation have been collected in the two first editions.\n\nThe Motto of the race is:\n\nThe name Wings for Life \"World\" Run comes from the fact that the race takes place in 34 or 35 different locations around the Earth at the same time. That means that runners in Europe or Africa run around noon while participants in Asia and Australia in the afternoon or evening. In the Americas the race is early in the morning or even during the night.\n\nThe Wings for Life World Run is outstanding because there is no prescribed distance to cover for example 10 kilometers or 42.195 km like in a marathon. Thus runners of very different levels can equally take part.\n\n100 km are prepared at each location. All participants start at the same time, a so-called \"Catcher Car\" rides on the track 30 minutes after the start. The speed is 15 km/h at first and increases step by step. Once a runner is overtaken by the car, the race is finished for them. Busses bring eliminated participants back to the start area. Thus what counts on the sport side is not the time needed to cover a given distance but the distance covered before the Catcher Car overtakes one.\n\nThe last remaining female and male runners at each locations are the \"local\" Wings for Life World Run winners and gain the right to start the following year at a location of their choice. The woman and man that ran the longest distance worldwide are the \"Wings for Life World Run Global Champions\" and are rewarded with a trip around the world as special prize.\n\nThe conditions and tracks vary quite a lot. The Catcher Cars are steered precisely using global satellite navigation hence a comparison between the different locations is nonetheless possible. The following table show how fast the car rides at what time after the start and how far it is at each speed change.\n\nThe first Wings for Life World Run took place on May 4, 2014 in 34 locations around the Earth. The start was given at 10:00 UTC everywhere. The British track and field world champion Colin Jackson was race director.\n\nThe competition became a success. Especially the men's race for the global title was very close. In the end Lemawork Ketema from Ethiopia won with 78.58 km he ran in Austria. That distance was just 90 m more than the Peruvian Remigio Huaman Quispe who ran in Lima and 180 m more than Evgenii Glyva from Ukraine who ran in Austria together with Ketema.\n\nElise Selvikvåg Molvik from Norway covered 54.79 km in Stavanger to claim the women's global championship. It is worth mentioning that, according to the official website, she was just 18 years old at that time and had never run more than 30 km in competition. 54.79 km meant also the 42nd place in the combined male and female ranking. Nathalie Vasseur from France became second with 51.26 km in Hennebont, the Moldovian Svetlana Shepeleva became third with 48.29 km in Alanya.\n\nAll in all 35397 men and women, among them several celebrities like Mark Webber and Aksel Lund Svindal, took part and ran 530928 km together.\n\nThe second edition of the Wings for Life World Run was held on May 3, 2015 in 35 locations. This year the start was given at 11:00 UTC. The race director was as in the year before the British track and field world champion Colin Jackson.\n\nThis year 72,224 women and men, among them again numerous internationally known sportsmen like Marcel Hirscher and Gregor Schlierenzauer, started. Aksel Lund Svindal, who ran in 2014, drove the Catcher Car in Stavanger this time. Like him some other celibrities did the same for example Felix Baumgartner (in Bucharest) and David Coulthard (in Silverstone).\n\nConcerning the sport side, the two best of the preceding edition Lemawork Ketema and Remigio Huaman Quispe ran at the same location in Austria. Ketema improved his performance up to 79.90 km and remained global champion. Quispe ran nearly as far as in 2014, namely 78.20 km, for a third place worldwide. The race developed again to a duel over distance, this time with the Chilian César Díaz Hernández, who became second with 78.31 km in Santiago, and with Giorgio Calcaterra who repeated his win in Italy and improved quite a lot up to 78.06 km (4th global rank).\n\nElise Molvik, global champion in 2014, ran again in Stavanger. She claimed the local title but 45.02 km were far from the worldwide best women. The podium was Yuuko Watanabe from Japan (56.33 km in Takashima), Riana van Niekerk from South Africa with 55.21 km in Cape Town and Nathalie Vasseur (second in 2014) with 52.18 km in Sunrise this year. All in all just 81 men ran further than the first woman.\n\nOn May 8, 2016 11:00 UTC the Wings for Life World Run had his third edition. As in 2014 there were 34 locations, among them two in the USA. Colin Jackson was again the race director. The Catcher Cars were driven by international stars like in the years before.\n\n130,732 runners took part worldwide and covered more than 1.2 million kilometers. In addition there were 20,556 so-called \"Selfie Runners\", that is people not running at one of the 34 locations and simulating the catcher cars with an app on their mobile phones. The foundation collected 6.6 million euros.\n\nThe Italian ultrarunner Giorgio Calcaterra won for the third time in Italy and took the global title this time too. He improved the record a lot with 88.44 km which meant that for the first time the Catcher Car had to accelerate to the top speed of 35 km/h to overtake him. The worldwide podium was completed by Bartosz Olszewski from Poland, who also ran over 80 km in Canada, and the Chilean Francisco Morales. Lemawork Ketema, global champion in 2014 and 2015, ran again in Austria. For a long time he was side by side with Evgenii Glyva like in 2014. However Ketema decided to stop after 41 km not to compromise his form in view of other races.\n\nA lot of top performances were set in Takashima in Japan. That was also the location for the global champion in the female race like in 2015. Kaori Yoshida set a new record with 65.71 km, an improvement of 9.38 km and an 18th place in the combined men and women classification. The following places went to the Austrian Karin Freitag with 59.08 km in Munich and to Vera Nunes from Portugal with 58.86 km. Last year's winner Yuuko Watanabe covered nearly exactly the same distance as in 2015 with 56.37 km, the global fifth place.\n\nThe fourth edition was held on May 7th, 2017. 155,288 women and men stood on the start lines of 25 locations.\n\nThe paraplegic athlete \"Aron Anderson\" from Sweden raced a new record distance of 92.14 km in a \"normal\" wheelchair (race wheelchairs are not allowed) and despite the heat of Dubai. \"Dominika Stelmach\" from Poland also set a new record performance in the women's competition with 68.21 km in Santiago.\n\n6.8 million euros were collected for the foundation.\n\nThe fifth edition of the race took place on May 6th 2018 with the start time again at 11 UTC.\n\n"}
