{"id": "4807354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4807354", "title": "Achard II, Count of Lecce", "text": "Achard II, Count of Lecce\n\nAchard II was the Norman count of Lecce (from before 1133) and Ostuni, both in southern Apulia, in today's southern Italy. \n\nHe was the son of Count Geoffrey II of Lecce and a descendant of one of the sons of Tancred of Hauteville, Geoffrey, arrived c. 1054, later count of Brindisi. His daughter Emma of Lecce (b. ca. 1120; d. 1194) had an affair with Roger, Duke of Apulia (b. 1118; d. 10 May 1148), son of Roger II of Sicily (b. 22 December 1095; d. 26 February 1154). His grandson, of this relationship, was later his heir and King Tancred (b. 1138; d. 20 February 1194).\n"}
{"id": "6983799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6983799", "title": "AgentSheets", "text": "AgentSheets\n\nAgentSheets is a Cyberlearning tool to teach students programming and related information technology skills through game design.\n\nAgentSheets is supported by a middle and high school curriculum called Scalable Game Design aligned with the ISTE National Educational Technology Standards (NETS). The mission of this project is to reinvent computer science in public schools by motivating & educating all students including women and underrepresented communities to learn about computer science through game design starting at the middle school level. Through this curriculum students build increasingly sophisticated games and, as part of this process, learn about computational concepts at the level of computational thinking that are relevant to game design as well as to computational science. The curriculum is made available through the Scalable Game Design Wiki. Research investigating motivational aspects of computer science education in public schools is currently exploring the introduction of game design in representative regions of the USA including technology hubs, inner city, rural and remote/tribal areas. Previous research has already found that game design with AgentSheets is universally accessible across gender as well as ethnicity and is not limited to students interested in playing video games.\n\nThe results of the NSF ITEST program supported research investigating motivational and educational aspects of introducing computer science at the middle school level are extremely positive in terms of motivational levels, number of participants and participation of women and underrepresented communities. The participation is extremely high because most middle schools participating in the study have made Scalable Game Design a module that is part of existing required courses (e.g., computer power with keyboarding and power point). Many of the middle schools instruct all of their students in scalable game design reaching in some schools over 900 students per year, per school. Of the well over 1000 students participating in the project in the first semester over 52% were girls. Of the girls 85% enjoyed the scalable game design course and 78% would like to take another game design course.\n\nThe built-in drag-and-drop language is accessible enough that students without programming background can make their own simple Frogger-like game, and publish it on the Web, in their first session. At the same time, AgentSheets is powerful enough to make sophisticated The Sims-like games with artificial intelligence. To transition from visual programming to more traditional programming students can render their games into Java source code.\n\nSimilar to a spreadsheet, an agentsheet is a computational grid. Unlike spreadsheets, this grid does not just contain numbers and strings but so called agents. These agents are represented by pictures, can be animated, make sounds, react to mouse/keyboard interactions, can read web pages, can speak and even recognize speech commands (Mac). This grid is well suited to build computational science applications modeling complex scientific phenomena with up to tens of thousands of agents. The grid is useful to build agent-based simulations including cellular automata or diffusion-based models. These models are used in a wide variety of applications. How does a mudslide work? When does a bridge collapse? How fragile are ecosystems? This ability to support game as well as computational science applications with the inclusion of scientific visualizations makes AgentSheets a unique computational thinking tool that is used computer science and STEM education.\n\nAgentSheets is used in a number of contexts worldwide:\n\n\nThe original goal of this research was to explore new models of computational thinking. The first prototype of AgentSheets ran in 1989 at the University of Colorado, NCAR, Connection Machine 2. The Connection Machine is a highly parallel computer with up to 65,536 CPUs. Realizing how hard it was to program the Connection Machine the insight that \"CPU cycles will always be ultimately cheaper than cognitive cycles\" led to the exploration of several new programming paradigms:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21957984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21957984", "title": "Amlaíb mac Sitriuc", "text": "Amlaíb mac Sitriuc\n\nAmlaíb mac Sitriuc (\"Amhlaeibh, son of Sitric\") or Olaf Sigtryggsson was the son of Sigtrygg Silkbeard, the Hiberno-Norse King of Dublin, and Sláine, the daughter of Brian Boru. A member of the Uí Ímair dynasty, his ancestors also included Amlaíb Cuarán and Gormflaith, who were influential in medieval Ireland. He was held to ransom by the Gaelic lord of Brega and later killed in England by Anglo-Saxons while on his way on pilgrimage to Rome in 1034. Some of his descendants later became the Kings of Gwynedd in Wales.\n\nAmlaíb was the son of the ruling King of Dublin, Sigtrygg Silkbeard (d. 1042), and his wife Sláine, daughter of the King of Munster and High King of Ireland, Brian Boru (d. 1014), and his first wife. His paternal grandfather was Amlaíb Cuarán (d. 981), the powerful King of York and of Dublin. Amlaíb Cuarán's wife was Gormflaith (d. 1030), a \"beautiful, powerful and intriguing Irish woman\" who later married Boru at the same time Sigtrygg married Sláine.\n\nAmlaíb had four half-brothers: Artalach (d. 999), Oleif (d. 1013), Godfrey (d. 1036), Glúniairn (d. 1031). Oleif was killed in immediate vengeance for the burning of the Norse city of Cork. Glúniairn was killed by the people of South Brega in 1031. Godfrey was killed in Wales, possibly by a first cousin. Amlaíb was outlived by his half-sister Cellach, who died in 1042 in the same month as her father.\n\nIn 1027, after the death of Máel Sechlainn in 1022 and the chaos which accompanied the subsequent bids for the High Kingship by the Irish princes, Sigtrygg Silkbeard was forced to make a new alliance with the men of Brega. Amlaíb joined Donnchad of Brega in a raid on Staholmock, County Meath. The army of Sigtrygg and Donnchad was defeated by the men of Meath under their king, Roen Ua Mael Sechlainn. Sigtrygg rallied to the fight again, and fought a battle at Lickblaw where Donnchad and Roen were slain.\n\nIn 1029, Amlaíb was taken prisoner by the new lord of Brega, Mathghamhain Ua Riagain, who exacted a ransom of 1200 cows. Further conditions of the agreement necessitated payment of another 140 British horses, 60 ounces of gold and of silver, \"the sword of Carlus\", the Irish hostages of Leinster and Leath Cuinn, \"four hostages to Ua Riagain as a security for peace, and the full value of the life of the third hostage.\" Added to the total, 80 cows \"for word and supplication\" were to be paid to the man who entreated for Amlaíb's release. The incident illustrates the importance of ransoming noble captives, as a means of political manipulation, increasing one's own revenues and exhausting the resources of one's foes. The demand of British horses also suggests that Dublin was one of the main ports for importing horses into 11th century Ireland, and that Amlaíb's family may have been personally involved in husbandry.\n\nAccording to the 17th century \"Annals of the Four Masters\", Amlaíb mac Sitriuc \"was slain by the Saxons\" on his way on a pilgrimage to Rome in 1034. He was survived by one Ragnhild, who was the mother of Gruffudd ap Cynan, from whom the Kings of Gwynedd were descended.\n\n"}
{"id": "39218436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39218436", "title": "Antenatal depression", "text": "Antenatal depression\n\nAntenatal depression, also known as Prenatal depression, is a form of clinical depression that can affect a woman during pregnancy, and can be a precursor to postpartum depression if not properly treated. It is estimated that 7% to 20% percent of pregnant women are affected by this condition. Any form of prenatal stress felt by the mother can have negative effects on various aspects of fetal development, which can cause harm to the mother and child. Even after birth, a child born from a depressed/ stressed mother feels the affects. The child is less active and can also suffer from emotional distress. Antenatal depression can be caused by the stress and worry that pregnancy can bring, only at a more severe level. Other triggers include unplanned pregnancy, difficulty becoming pregnant, history of abuse, and economic or family situations.\n\nCommonly, symptoms involve how the patient views herself, how she feels about going through such a life changing event, the restrictions on the mother's lifestyle that motherhood will place, or how the partner or family feel about the baby. Pregnancy places significant strain on a woman's body, so stress, mood swings, sadness, irritability, pain, and memory changes are to be expected. Antenatal depression can be extremely dangerous for the health of the mother, and the baby, if not properly treated. If you feel you might be suffering from antenatal depression, it is highly recommended to speak with your health care provider about it. Together you can discuss ways to help treat and cope with this mental illness.\n\nAntenatal depression is classified based on a woman's symptoms. During pregnancy, a lot of changes to mood, memory, eating habits, and sleep is common. When these common traits become severe, and begin to alter one's day-to-day life, that is when it is considered to be antenatal depression. Symptoms of Antenatal depression are:\n\nOther symptoms can include the inability to get excited about the pregnancy, and/or baby, a feeling of disconnection with the baby, and an inability to form/feel a bond with the developing baby. This can drastically affect the relationship between the mother and the baby, and can drastically affect the mother's capacity for self care. Such inadequacies can lead to even greater risk factors for the mother. Antenatal depression can be triggered by various causes, including relationship problems, family or personal history of depression, infertility, previous pregnancy loss, complications in pregnancy, and a history of abuse or trauma.\n\nAntenatal depression can be caused by many factors. Often it is associated with the fear and stress of the pregnancy. Other factors include unintended pregnancy, financial issues, living arrangements and relationships with the father & family. Typically, depression symptoms associated with pregnancy are categorized as postnatal depression, due to the onset of symptoms occurring after childbirth has occurred. The following is a breakdown of when a group of various women began to feel the onset of symptoms associated with depression:\n\nIn a recent article posted by The BabyCenter, the authors stated that \"For years, experts mistakenly believed that pregnancy hormones protected against depression, leaving women more vulnerable to the illness only after the baby was born and their hormone levels plunged.\" This is a possible explanation as to why antenatal depression has just recently been identified.\n\nAntenatal depression affects about one in every eight women. It's becoming more prevalent as more medical studies are being done. Antenatal depression was once thought to simply be the normal stress associated with any pregnancy, and was waved off as a common ailment. It can be caused by many factors, usually though involving aspects of the mothers personal life such as, family, economic standing, relationship status, etc. It can also be caused by hormonal and physical changes that are associated with pregnancy.\n\nTreatment for Antenatal depression poses many challenges because the baby is also affected by any treatments given to the mother. It is suggested that the emotional aspects are handled first which includes:\n\nCounseling is highly recommended to any woman suffering from antenatal depression. It is a very effective way for the mother to express her feelings and explain in her own words what she is feeling. This is very effective in that it gives the doctors a better insight into the symptoms and their severity. In severe cases Medication can be prescribed. This is usually only done if the symptoms have proven so severe that they interfere with day-to-day life, self care, and ability to sleep. During pregnancy, there are two main kinds of antidepressants used during pregnancy; Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)and Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).Once prescribed, anti-depressant medication has been found to be extremely effective in treating antenatal depression. Patients can expect to feel an improvement in mood in roughly 2 to 3 weeks on average, and can begin to feel themselves truly connect with their baby. Reported benefits of medication include returned appetite, feeling of connect, increased mood, increased energy, and better concentration. Side effects are minor, though they are reported in some cases. Currently, no abnormalities of the baby have been associated with the use of antidepressants during pregnancy.\n\nIt may be true that maternal SSRI use during pregnancy can lead to difficulty for their newborn adjusting to conditions outside of the womb immediately following birth. Some studies indicate that infants with exposure to SSRIs in the second and third trimester were more likely to be admitted to intensive care following their birth for respiratory, cardiac, low weight and other reasons, and that infants with prenatal SSRI exposure exhibited less motor control upon delivery than infants who were not exposed to SSRIs. Newborns who were exposed to SSRIs for five months or more prior to birth were at a greater risk for lower Apgar scores 1 and 5 minutes after delivery, indicating they were of lesser health than newborns who were not exposed to SSRIs before birth. However, prenatal SSRI exposure was not found to have a significant impact the long-term mental and physical health of the children. These results are not independent of any effects of prenatal depression on infants.\n\nStudies have found a strong link between antenatal depression and postpartum depression in women. In other words, women who are suffering from antenatal depression are very likely to also suffer from postpartum depression. The cause of this is based on the continuation of the antenatal depression into postpartum. In a logistical light, it makes sense that women who are depressed during their pregnancy will also be depressed following the birth of their child. This being said there are some factors that determine exclusively the presence of postpartum depression that are not necessarily linked with antenatal depression. These examples include variables like socioeconomic class, if a pregnancy was planned or not, and the parents' relationship prior to conception and delivery of the child.\n\nIn reference to a recent study by Coburn et al., the authors found that in addition to prenatal eﬀects, higher maternal depressive symptoms during the postpartum period (12 weeks) were associated with more infant health concerns. This is consistent with other findings among low-SES Mexican-American women and their infants. Women with prenatal depressive symptoms are more likely to develop postpartum depression, which can also have negative consequences on children, such as emotional and behavior problems, attachment difficulties, cognitive deficits, physical growth and development, and feeding habits and attitudes. Related, maternal depression aﬀects parenting behaviors, which in turn could aﬀect child outcomes. Thus, women’s mental health throughout the perinatal period should be a priority, not only to support women, but also to promote optimal functioning for their infants.\n\nDepressive symptoms in pregnant women are linked with poor health outcomes in infants. The rates of hospitalization are found increased for infants who are born to women with high depression levels during pregnancy. Reduced breastfeeding, poor physical growth, lower birth weight, early gestational age and high rates of diarrheal infection are some of the reported outcomes of poor health among infants born to depressed pregnant women. Studies also report that the environmental effects of maternal depression effect the developing fetus to such an extent that the impact can be seen during adulthood of the offspring. The effects are worse for women from low socio-economic backgrounds. In a recent study by Coburn et al, maternal prenatal depressive symptoms predicted significantly higher number of infant health concerns at 12-weeks (3 months) of age. The health outcomes included rash, colic, cold, fever, cough, diarrhea, ear infections, vomiting.\n\nAn interesting and informative area of research has been done to see the role of confounding variables in relationship of maternal prenatal depression with infant health concerns. Age of mother, romantic partner, education, household income,immigrant status, and number of other children, breastfeeding, gestational age, birth weight are some of the mediating or moderating factors which are found correlated with infant health concerns. The studies of post-partum depressive symptoms are relatively more than those of prenatal depression and the studies should look into the role of various factors during pregnancy that may impact the health of infants, even continuing into adulthood.\n\n"}
{"id": "22802888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22802888", "title": "Biexciton", "text": "Biexciton\n\nIn condensed matter physics, biexcitons are created from two free excitons.\n\nIn quantum information and computation, it is essential to construct coherent combinations of quantum states.\nThe basic quantum operations can be performed on a sequence of pairs of physically distinguishable quantum bits and, therefore, can be illustrated by a simple four-level system.\n\nIn an optically driven system where the formula_1 and formula_2 states can be directly excited, direct excitation of the upper formula_3 level from the ground state formula_4 is usually forbidden and the most efficient alternative is coherent nondegenerate two-photon excitation, using formula_1 or formula_2 as an intermediate state.\n\nThree possibilities of observing biexcitons exist:\n(a) excitation from the one-exciton band to the biexciton band (pump-probe experiments);\n\n(b) two-photon absorption of light from the ground state to the biexciton state;\n\n(c) luminescence from a biexciton state made up from two free excitons in a dense exciton system.\n\nThe biexciton is a quasi-particle formed from two excitons, and its energy is expressed as\n\nwhere formula_8 is the biexciton energy, formula_9 is the exciton energy, and\n\nWhen a biexciton is annihilated, it disintegrates into a free exciton and a photon. The energy of the photon is smaller than that of the biexciton by the biexciton binding energy,\nso the biexciton luminescence peak appears on the low-energy side of the exciton peak.\n\nThe biexciton binding energy in semiconductor quantum dots has been the subject of extensive theoretical study. Because a biexciton is a composite of two electrons and two holes, we must solve a four-body problem under spatially restricted conditions. The biexciton binding energies for CuCl quantum dots, as measured by the site selective luminescence method, increased with decreasing quantum dot size. The data were well fitted by the function\n\nwhere formula_12 is biexciton binding energy, formula_13 is the radius of the quantum dots, formula_14 is the binding energy of bulk crystal, and formula_15 and formula_16 are fitting parameters.\nIn the effective-mass approximation, the Hamiltonian of the system consisting of two electrons (1, 2) and two holes (a, b) is given by\n\nwhere formula_18 and formula_19 are the effective masses of electrons and holes, respectively, and\n\nwhere formula_21 denotes the Coulomb interaction between the charged particles formula_22 and formula_23 (formula_24 denote the two electrons and two holes in the biexciton) given by\n\nwhere formula_26 is the dielectric constant of the material.\n\nDenoting formula_27 and formula_28 are the c.m. coordinate and the relative coordinate of the biexciton, respectively, and formula_29 is the effective mass of the exciton, the Hamiltonian becomes\n\nwhere formula_31; formula_32 and formula_33 are the Laplacians with respect to relative coordinates between electron and hole, respectively.\nAnd formula_34 is that with respect to relative coordinate between the c. m. of excitons, and formula_35 is that with respect to the c. m. coordinate formula_27 of the system.\n\nIn the units of the exciton Rydberg and Bohr radius, the Hamiltonian can be written in dimensionless form\n\nwhere formula_38 with neglecting kinetic energy operator of c. m. motion. And formula_39 can be written as\n\nTo solve the problem of the bound states of the biexciton complex, it is required to find the wave functions formula_41 satisfying the wave equation\n\nIf the eigenvalue formula_8 can be obtained, the binding energy of the biexciton can be also acquired\n\nwhere formula_10 is the binding energy of the biexciton and formula_9 is the energy of exciton.\n\nThe diffusion Monte Carlo (DMC) method provides a straightforward means of calculating the binding energies of biexcitons within the effective mass approximation. For a biexciton composed of four distinguishable particles (e.g., a spin-up electron, a spin-down electron, a spin-up hole and a spin-down hole), the ground-state wave function is nodeless and hence the DMC method is exact. DMC calculations have been used to calculate the binding energies of biexcitons in which the charge carriers interact via the Coulomb interaction in two and three dimensions, indirect biexcitons in coupled quantum wells, and biexcitons in monolayer transition metal dichalcogenide semiconductors.\n\nBiexcitons with bound complexes formed by two excitons are predicted to be surprisingly stable for carbon nanotube in a wide diameter range.\nThus, a biexciton binding energy exceeding the inhomogeneous exciton line width is predicted for a wide range of nanotubes.\n\nThe biexciton binding energy in carbon nanotube is quite accurately approximated by an inverse dependence on formula_47, except perhaps for the smallest values of formula_47.\n\nThe actual biexciton binding energy is inversely proportional to the physical nanotube radius.\n\nExperimental evidence of biexcitons in carbon nanotubes was found in 2012. \n\nThe binding energy of biexcitons increase with the decrease in their size and its size dependence and bulk value are well represented by the expression\n"}
{"id": "6900845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6900845", "title": "Biodiversity informatics", "text": "Biodiversity informatics\n\nBiodiversity Informatics is the application of informatics techniques to biodiversity information for improved management, presentation, discovery, exploration and analysis. It typically builds on a foundation of taxonomic, biogeographic, or ecological information stored in digital form, which, with the application of modern computer techniques, can yield new ways to view and analyse existing information, as well as predictive models for information that does not yet exist (see niche modelling). Biodiversity informatics is a relatively young discipline (the term was coined in or around 1992) but has hundreds of practitioners worldwide, including the numerous individuals involved with the design and construction of taxonomic databases. The term \"Biodiversity Informatics\" is generally used in the broad sense to apply to computerized handling of any biodiversity information; the somewhat broader term \"bioinformatics\" is often used synonymously with the computerized handling of data in the specialized area of molecular biology.\n\nBiodiversity informatics (different but linked to bioinformatics) is the application of information technology methods to the problems of organizing, accessing, visualizing and analyzing primary biodiversity data. Primary biodiversity data is composed of names, observations and records of specimens, and genetic and morphological data associated to a specimen. Biodiversity informatics may also have to cope with managing information from unnamed taxa such as that produced by environmental sampling and sequencing of mixed-field samples. The term biodiversity informatics is also used to cover the computational problems specific to the names of biological entities, such as the development of algorithms to cope with variant representations of identifiers such as species names and authorities, and the multiple classification schemes within which these entities may reside according to the preferences of different workers in the field, as well as the syntax and semantics by which the content in taxonomic databases can be made machine queryable and interoperable for biodiversity informatics purposes...\n\nBiodiversity Informatics can be considered to have commenced with the construction of the first computerized taxonomic databases in the early 1970s, and progressed through subsequent developing of distributed search tools towards the late 1990s including the Species Analyst from Kansas University, the North American Biodiversity Information Network NABIN, CONABIO in Mexico, and others, the establishment of the Global Biodiversity Information Facility in 2001, and the parallel development of a variety of niche modelling and other tools to operate on digitized biodiversity data from the mid-1980s onwards (e.g. see ). In September 2000, the U.S. journal Science devoted a special issue to \"Bioinformatics for Biodiversity\", the journal \"Biodiversity Informatics\" commenced publication in 2004, and several international conferences through the 2000s have brought together Biodiversity Informatics practitioners, including the London e-Biosphere conference in June 2009. A supplement to the journal BMC Bioinformatics (Volume 10 Suppl 14) published in November 2009 also deals with Biodiversity Informatics.\n\nAccording to correspondence reproduced by Walter Berendsohn, the term \"Biodiversity Informatics\" was coined by John Whiting in 1992 to cover the activities of an entity known as the Canadian Biodiversity Informatics Consortium, a group involved with fusing basic biodiversity information with environmental economics and geospatial information in the form of GPS and GIS. Subsequently, it appears to have lost any obligate connection with the GPS/GIS world and be associated with the computerized management of any aspects of biodiversity information (e.g. see )\n\nOne major issue for biodiversity informatics at a global scale is the current absence of a complete master list of currently recognised species of the world, although this is an aim of the Catalogue of Life project which has ca. 1.65 million species of an estimated 1.9 million described species in its 2016 Annual Checklist. A similar effort for fossil taxa, the Paleobiology Database documents some 100,000+ names for fossil species, out of an unknown total number.\n\nApplication of the Linnaean system of binomial nomenclature for species, and uninomials for genera and higher ranks, has led to many advantages but also problems with homonyms (the same name being used for multiple taxa, either inadvertently or legitimately across multiple kingdoms), synonyms (multiple names for the same taxon), as well as variant representations of the same name due to orthographic differences, minor spelling errors, variation in the manner of citation of author names and dates, and more. In addition, names can change through time on account of changing taxonomic opinions (for example, the correct generic placement of a species, or the elevation of a subspecies to species rank or vice versa), and also the circumscription of a taxon can change according to different authors' taxonomic concepts. One proposed solution to this problem is the usage of Life Science Identifiers (LSIDs) for machine-machine communication purposes, although there are both proponents and opponents of this approach.\n\nOrganisms can be classified in a multitude of ways (see main page Biological classification), which can create design problems for Biodiversity Informatics systems aimed at incorporating either a single or multiple classification to suit the needs of users, or to guide them towards a single \"preferred\" system. Whether a single consensus classification system can ever be achieved is probably an open question, however the Catalogue of Life has commissioned activity in this area which has been succeeded by a published system proposed in 2015 by M. Ruggiero and co-workers.\n\n\"Primary\" biodiversity information can be considered the basic data on the occurrence and diversity of species (or indeed, any recognizable taxa), commonly in association with information regarding their distribution in either space, time, or both. Such information may be in the form of retained specimens and associated information, for example as assembled in the natural history collections of museums and herbaria, or as observational records, for example either from formal faunal or floristic surveys undertaken by professional biologists and students, or as amateur and other planned or unplanned observations including those increasingly coming under the scope of citizen science. Providing online, coherent digital access to this vast collection of disparate primary data is a core Biodiversity Informatics function that is at the heart of regional and global biodiversity data networks, examples of the latter including OBIS and GBIF.\n\nAs a secondary source of biodiversity data, relevant scientific literature can be parsed either by humans or (potentially) by specialized information retrieval algorithms to extract the relevant primary biodiversity information that is reported therein, sometimes in aggregated / summary form but frequently as primary observations in narrative or tabular form. Elements of such activity (such as extracting key taxonomic identifiers, keywording / index terms, etc.) have been practiced for many years at a higher level by selected academic databases and search engines. However, for the maximum Biodiversity Informatics value, the actual primary occurrence data should ideally be retrieved and then made available in a standardized form or forms; for example both the Plazi and INOTAXA projects are transforming taxonomic literature into XML formats that can then be read by client applications, the former using TaxonX-XML and the latter using the taXMLit format. The Biodiversity Heritage Library is also making significant progress in its aim to digitize substantial portions of the out-of-copyright taxonomic literature, which is then subjected to OCR (optical character recognition) so as to be amenable to further processing using Biodiversity Informatics tools.\n\nIn common with other data-related disciplines, Biodiversity Informatics benefits from the adoption of appropriate standards and protocols in order to support machine-machine transmission and interoperability of information within its particular domain. Examples of relevant standards include the Darwin Core XML schema for specimen- and observation-based biodiversity data developed from 1998 onwards, plus extensions of the same, Taxonomic Concept Transfer Schema, plus standards for Structured Descriptive Data and Access to Biological Collection Data (ABCD); while data retrieval and transfer protocols include DiGIR (now mostly superseded) and TAPIR (TDWG Access Protocol for Information Retrieval). Many of these standards and protocols are currently maintained, and their development overseen, by the Taxonomic Databases Working Group (TDWG).\n\nAt the 2009 e-Biosphere conference in the U.K., the following themes were adopted, which is indicative of a broad range of current Biodiversity Informatics activities and how they might be categorized:\n\n\nA post-conference workshop of key persons with current significant Biodiversity Informatics roles also resulted in a Workshop Resolution that stressed, among other aspects, the need to create durable, global registries for the resources that are basic to biodiversity informatics (e.g., repositories, collections); complete the construction of a solid taxonomic infrastructure; and create ontologies for biodiversity data.\n\nGlobal:\n\n\nRegional / national projects:\n\n\nA listing of over 600 current biodiversity informatics related activities can be found at the TDWG \"Biodiversity Information Projects of the World\" database.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30585716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30585716", "title": "Compassion &amp; Choices of Oregon", "text": "Compassion &amp; Choices of Oregon\n\nCompassion & Choices of Oregon was a US nonprofit organization launched in 1998 as a provider of services for persons eligible for the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, and their physicians and pharmacists. The organization recruited and trained volunteers to provide legal and medical consultation and direct service at no cost. It was a state affiliate of Compassion & Choices, and provides education, information and support to approximately 1000 Oregonians each year.\n\nThe organization ceased operations in 2015.\n\nThe 2011 Sundance Film Festival winner, \"How to Die in Oregon\", documented the work of Compassion & Choices of Oregon.\n\nIn early Spring 2012 the organization's medical director emeritus, Peter Goodwin, M.D., announced he was dying of a neurological disorder and would end his life with medication and protection of Oregon's Death with Dignity law. Goodwin died at home, surrounded by friends, on March 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "55968569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55968569", "title": "Cristina Farfán", "text": "Cristina Farfán\n\nCristina Farfán (24 July 1846 – 22 August 1880) was a noted educator and writer who promoted women's education and was involved in the emergence of the first wave feminist movement in Mexico. She was one of the founders of women's literary journalism in Mexico.\n\nMaría Cristina Farfán Manzanilla was born on 24 July 1846 in Mérida, Yucatán, Mexico to Candelaria Manzanilla and José María Farfán. She was raised in a strict environment and educated at home by the lawyer and teacher, José María Jesús Apolinario García Montero, typically known as José García Montero.\n\nWith the help of García Montero, she secured a post as a teacher at the Colegio La Encarnación. On 3 May, 1870, along with Gertrudis Tenorio Zavala and Rita Cetina Gutiérrez, Farfán founded \"La Siempreviva\" (The Everlasting), an organization which encompassed Mexico's first secular school for girls as well as an art college for young women; a scientific and literary society; and a newspaper, specifically written by and for women. Though careful not to present an anti-clerical image, the teachers at the school, which was directed by Cetina, based their curricula in science and rationalism, arguing that women were capable of working and intellectual thought. Farfán, Cetina and Tenorio were the first group to publicly promote educating women in Yucatán.\n\nThe journal emphasized feminist writings and exposed many Mexican women to European feminism for the first time, and was published by the Palacio del Gobernador (the gubernatorial palace). Besides editing the magazine, the three friends published poems, dedicated to the improvement of women and their education. Farfán's first published work was \"La Aurora\", a compilation of the works of Cetina, Tenorio and herself, which appeared in 1870. Throughout the period from 1870 to 1872, Farfán's works appeared in the journal \"La Siempreviva\" and in 1874, she published a collection of essays and poems, \"La Primavera\".\n\nOn 1 July 1877, Farfán married her previous instructor García Montero in Mérida and moved with him to Tabasco. In 1879, she founded and became director and editor-in-chief of the journal \"El Recreo del Hogar\" (Recreating the Home) in Tabasco, collaborating with other feminists, such as Dolores Correa Zapata. In 1880, she founded the school, \"Colegio del Porvenir\" (College of the Future). Both the journal and the school were based on the scientific themes she had previously implemented in Mérida.\n\nFarfán died in childbirth on the morning of 22 August 1880 after traveling by train arriving in San Juan Bautista de la Villa Hermosa, Tabasco, Mexico from Mexico City. Her newborn daughter died shortly thereafter. A funeral booklet, by some of the most noted authors of the period was written to commemorate Farfán's contributions as a pioneer educator and literary journalist. Three years after her death, the journal \"El Dominguero\" bestowed upon her the title of \"Misionera de la Civilización\" (Missionary of Civilization) to recognize how her literary contributions had changed societal perception and opportunities for women. In 1885, her husband removed her remains from Tabasco and reburied them in his family crypt in her home town of Mérida. The re-internment ceremony was widely attended by dignitaries, friends, and colleagues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4573760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4573760", "title": "Curious Punishments of Bygone Days", "text": "Curious Punishments of Bygone Days\n\nCurious Punishments of Bygone Days is a history book published in 1896. It was written by Alice Morse Earle and printed by Herbert S. Stone & Company. Earle was a historian of Colonial America, and she writes in her introduction:\nIn ransacking old court records, newspapers, diaries and letters for the historic foundation of the books which I have written on colonial history, I have found and noted much of interest that has not been used or referred to in any of those books. An accumulation of notes on old-time laws, punishments and penalties has evoked this volume.\nAs the title suggests, the subject of the chapters is various archaic punishments. Morse seems to make a distinction between stocks for the feet, in the Stocks chapter, and stocks for the head, described in the Pillory article- which itself clashes with the modern day understanding of a pillory as a whipping post.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36298401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36298401", "title": "DAYDREAMER", "text": "DAYDREAMER\n\nDAYDREAMER is a goal-based agent and cognitive architecture developed at University of California, Los Angeles by Erik Mueller. It models the human stream of thought and its triggering and direction by emotions, as in human daydreaming. The architecture is implemented as 12,000 lines of Lisp code.\n\nDAYDREAMER was begun by Erik Mueller in 1983 while he was studying under Michael G. Dyer in the UCLA Computer Science Department. It was completed in 1987 and was followed by the ThoughtTreasure program, which was started in 1993.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "451998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451998", "title": "Elder Thing", "text": "Elder Thing\n\nThe Elder Things (also known as the Old Ones and Elder Ones) are fictional extraterrestrials in the Cthulhu Mythos. The beings first appeared in H. P. Lovecraft's novella, \"At the Mountains of Madness\" (published in 1936, but written in 1931), and later appeared, although not named, in the short story \"The Dreams in the Witch-House\" (1933). Additional references to the Elder Things appear in Lovecraft's short story \"The Shadow Out of Time\" (1936).\n\nDescription of a partial headless body:\n\nSix feet end to end, three and five-tenths feet central diameter, tapering to one foot at each end. Like a barrel with five bulging ridges in place of staves. Lateral breakages, as of thinnish stalks, are at equator in middle of these ridges. In furrows between ridges are curious growths—combs or wings that fold up and spread out like fans ... which gives almost seven-foot wing spread. Arrangement reminds one of certain monsters of primal myth, especially fabled Elder Things in the Necronomicon.\n\nIn the Mythos canon, the Elder Things were the first extraterrestrial species to come to the Earth, colonizing the planet about one billion years ago. They stood roughly eight feet tall and had the appearance of a huge, oval-shaped barrel with starfish-like appendages at both ends. The top appendage was a head adorned with five eyes, five eating tubes, and a set of cilia for \"seeing\" without light. The bottom appendage was five-limbed and was used for walking and other forms of locomotion. The beings also had five leathery, fan-like retractable wings and five sets of branching tentacles that sprouted from their torsos. Both their tentacles and the slits housing their folded wings were spaced at regular intervals about their bodies.\n\nLovecraft described the Elder Things as vegetable-like or echinoderm-like in shape, having radial symmetry instead of the bilateral symmetry of bipeds. They also differed in that they had a five-lobed brain. The Elder Things exhibited vegetable as well as animal characteristics, and in terms of reproduction, multiplied using spores, although they discouraged increasing their numbers except when colonizing new regions. Though they could make use of both organic and inorganic substances, the Elder Things were carnivorous by preference. They were also amphibious.\n\nThe bodies of the Elder Things were incredibly tough, capable of withstanding the pressures of the deepest ocean. Few died except by accident or violence. The beings were also capable of hibernating for vast epochs of time. Nonetheless, unlike many other beings of the Mythos, the Elder Things were made of normal, terrestrial matter.\n\nThe technology that the Elder Things possessed was not described at length, but was described as being extremely advanced. They are also revealed in \"At the Mountains of Madness\" as being the creators of a servitor race, the shoggoths.\n\nBecause they reproduced through spores, there was little biological basis for families to form, and were thus grouped together with others with whom they would get along. Elderian \"families\" lived in large dwellings, where furniture and other decoration was placed in the center of the rooms, to leave the walls open for murals.\nIn furnishing their homes they kept everything in the center of the huge rooms, leaving all the wall spaces free for decorative treatment. Lighting, in the case of the land inhabitants, was accomplished by a device probably electro-chemical in nature. Both on land and under water they used curious tables, chairs and couches like cylindrical frames - for they rested and slept upright with folded-down tentacles - and racks for hinged sets of dotted surfaces forming their books.\n\nGovernment was evidently complex and probably socialistic, though no certainties in this regard could be deduced from the sculptures we saw. There was extensive commerce, both local and between different cities - certain small, flat counters, five-pointed and inscribed, serving as money. Probably the smaller of the various greenish soapstones found by our expedition were pieces of such currency. Though the culture was mainly urban, some agriculture and much stock raising existed. Mining and a limited amount of manufacturing were also practiced. Travel was very frequent, but permanent migration seemed relatively rare except for the vast colonizing movements by which the race expanded. For personal locomotion no external aid was used, since in land, air, and water movement alike the Old Ones seemed to possess excessively vast capacities for speed. Loads, however, were drawn by beasts of burden - Shoggoths under the sea, and a curious variety of primitive vertebrates in the later years of land existence.\n—H.P. Lovecraft, \"At the Mountains of Madness\"\nIn \"The Dreams in the Witch-House,\" the central character is sent through a dimensional portal to a planet in a (with a yellow, red, and blue star) located \"between Hydra and Argo Navis\", and populated by Elder Things.\n\nOn Earth, the Elder Things built huge cities, both underwater and on dry land. They may be responsible for the appearance of the first life-forms on Earth, including the entity known as Ubbo-Sathla (although sources differ in this regard). They created the shoggoths to be their all-purpose slave race. Eventually, however, the shoggoths rebelled—an event that hastened the decline and ultimate collapse of their civilization. Although the Elder Things managed to initially subdue the shoggoths after their attempted rebellion, the shoggoths continued to improve physiologically, increasing in intelligence and developing the capacity to live on land.\n\nThe Elder Things are known to have warred against the star-spawn of Cthulhu, the Great Race of Yith, and the Mi-go. Despite these conflicts, it was the gradual cooling of the planet during the last ice age that spelled their doom. Retreating to their undersea cities deep in the ocean, they would thereafter have no further dealings with the outer world. Their last surface city, located on a high plateau in the Antarctic, remains frozen in ice. The ruins of this city were discovered in 1931 by two members of an Antarctic expedition from Miskatonic University.\n\nThe last known, and most significant, undersea city, located directly beneath the Elder Things' ultimate surface city in the Antarctic, was apparently overrun by the shoggoths. Four of a group of eight Elder Things unearthed by other members of the Miskatonic expedition, which were still alive despite the millions of years that had passed, and which were described in the story \"At the Mountains of Madness\" as being survivors from an early age of the species' civilization, were killed by a shoggoth while attempting to find a means to enter the subterranean ocean in the Antarctic, apparently unaware of the collapse of their kin's city.\n\nNot named, but implied by description, the Elder Things appeared in \"The Dreams in the Witch House\".\n\nThe Elder Things were also involved in Brian Lumley's short story \"In the Vaults Beneath\" published in \"The Caller of the Black\" (Arkham House), 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23140288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23140288", "title": "Erling Moi", "text": "Erling Moi\n\nErling August Moi (30 June 1918 – 8 September 1944) was a Norwegian resistance member of World War II.\n\nHe was born and raised in Kvinesdal, and had attended middle school and commercial school. During the Norwegian Campaign in 1940, he fought for Norway in Voss and Valdres. During the subsequent occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany, he joined Milorg in 1941. He worked as a courier between Southern Norway and Oslo, and also operated an illegal communication post in Kvinesdal. He was arrested on 30 March 1944, when the Gestapo raided the home of fellow resistance member Sverre Johansen. Moi coincidentally slept over in Johansen's house, but together with Sverre's brother Toralf he was arrested by chance.\n\nHe was imprisoned at Arkivet in Kristiansand before being moved to Grini concentration camp in June 1944. On 6 September 1944 he was to be transported to Germany, and brought on board SS \"Westfalen\". However, the ship sank on 8 September, and Moi perished. He was given a grave in Kvinesdal.\n"}
{"id": "5267219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5267219", "title": "Execution of the Báb", "text": "Execution of the Báb\n\nOn the morning of July 9, 1850 in Tabriz, a young Persian merchant known as the Báb, at the age of thirty, was charged with apostasy and shot by order of the Prime Minister of the Persian Empire. The events surrounding his execution have been the subject of controversy among researchers, and are regarded as miraculous by Bahá'ís, who consider him to be a Manifestation of God.\n\nThe Báb and one of his companions were suspended on a wall and a large firing squad prepared to shoot. When the smoke cleared after the first firing of bullets, the Báb was missing. Reports continue by stating that the Báb was found back in his prison room finishing dictation to his secretary. Other sources, which include Persian and European reports, give a variety of accounts, some in agreement with the miracle-like Bahá'í story, and some indicating a less miraculous event. All agree that he survived the first firing squad, and was killed by the second.\n\nFor many years after his death, the remains of the Báb were secretly transferred from place to place until they were brought to their final resting place at the Shrine of the Báb in Haifa on the middle terrace of the Bahá'í Gardens.\n\nThe anniversary of this event is commemorated by members of the Baha'i Faith at noon on Rahmat 16 (Sharaf) (of the Baha'i Calendar - i.e., July 9 or July 10). It is one of nine Holy Days when work is suspended.\n\nIn 1850 a new prime-minister, Amir Kabir, ordered the execution of the Báb; he was brought to Tabriz, where he would be killed by a firing squad. The night before his execution, as he was being conducted to his cell, a young man, Anís (sometimes called Mulla Muhammad Ali), threw himself at the feet of the Báb, wanting to be killed with the Báb. He was immediately arrested and placed in the same cell as the Báb.\n\nOn the morning of July 9, 1850, the Báb was taken to a courtyard filled with nearly ten thousand people wishing to watch his execution. The Báb and Anís were suspended on a wall and the firing squad of 750 rifles prepared to shoot.\n\nHere is an account which is in line with the common Bahá'í view by H.M. Balyuzi, a Hand of the Cause of God, who published several carefully researched histories about the Bahá'í Faith and its central figures:\n\nThese events were witnessed by western journalists. Provided below is one source that is attributed to Sir Justin Shiel, Queen Victoria's Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in Tehran and written to Lord Palmerston, the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, July 22, 1850.\n\nShoghi Effendi also prints a large selection of western quotes in his book \"God Passes By\" (p55), however most are unsourced.\n\nMírzá Mihdí Khán Zaímu'd-Dawlih was the son of a Shi'ite cleric who was present at the execution of the Báb and who took his son to the barracks square to review the events he witnessed. Zaímu'd-Dawlih recounted his father's version in a book, \"Miftáh-i-Bábu'l-Abváb ya Taríkh-i-Báb va Bahá\" (Key to the Gate of Gates, or the History of the Báb and Bahá), published about A.H. 1310 (about 1896). The work is a polemically anti-Bahá'í book. But the account of the execution (which is lengthy) includes the following details:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41155727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41155727", "title": "Floris Stempel", "text": "Floris Stempel\n\nFloris Stempel (January 18, 1877 – January~March, 1910) was the first chairman ever in the history of football club Ajax Amsterdam.\n\nFloris was born in Amsterdam and in 1877 created the first version of Ajax as a football club along with some friends. On 18 March 1900 they first registered the club officially as the \"Amsterdamsche Football Club Ajax\" of which Floris Stempel was the first chairman in the clubs history. The first friendly match on 20 March 1900 was organized under his guidance against cross town Amsterdamsche Football Club, with Ajax losing their first ever match 6–1 since officially becoming a club. The first official match for Ajax took place on 29 September 1900 against DOSB, which Ajax won 2–1. In 1902 Floris Stempel was responsible for the admission of AFC Ajax into the Royal Dutch Football Association.\n\nStempel remained the chairman of the club until 1908, and was relieved of his duties by his friend and co-founder Chris C. Holst.\n\nAt some time between 23 January and 16 March 1910, Floris Stempel died. He was on board the \"SS Prins Willem II\" of the Royal West Indian Mail Service (KWIM) on his way to Paramaribo, Suriname, but after the ship passed Ushant on 23 January, there was no more communication with the ship and its 54 passengers. Wreckage of the ship finally washed to shore on the west coast of France on 16 March 1910 which confirmed the assumption that the ship along with its entire crew, cast and cargo had perished at sea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5570800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5570800", "title": "Forced prostitution", "text": "Forced prostitution\n\nForced prostitution, also known as involuntary prostitution, is prostitution or sexual slavery that takes place as a result of coercion by a third party. The terms \"forced prostitution\" or \"enforced prostitution\" appear in international and humanitarian conventions such as Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court but have been insufficiently understood and inconsistently applied. \"Forced prostitution\" refers to conditions of control over a person who is coerced by another to engage in sexual activity.\n\nForced prostitution is a crime against the person because of the violation of the victim's rights of movement through coercion and because of their commercial exploitation.\n\nForced prostitution is illegal under customary law in all countries. This is different from voluntary prostitution which may have a different legal status in different countries, which range from being fully illegal and punishable by death to being legal and regulated as an occupation.\n\nWhile the legality of adult prostitution varies between jurisdictions, the prostitution of children is illegal nearly everywhere in the world.\n\nIn 1949, the UN General Assembly adopted the Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others. This Convention supersedes a number of earlier conventions that covered some aspects of forced prostitution, and also deals with other aspects of prostitution. It penalises the procurement and enticement to prostitution as well as the maintenance of brothels. As at December 2013, the Convention has only been ratified by 82 countries. One of the main reasons it has not been ratified by many countries is because it 'voluntary' is broadly defined in countries with a legal sex industry. For example, in countries such as Germany, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Greece and Turkey and other countries some forms of prostitution and pimping are legal and regulated as professional occupations.\n\nChild prostitution is considered inherently non-consensual and exploitative, as children, because of their age, are not legally able to consent. In most countries child prostitution is illegal irrespective of the child reaching a lower statutory age of consent.\n\nState parties to the Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography are required to prohibit child prostitution. The Protocol defines a child as any human being under the age of 18, \"unless an earlier age of majority is recognized by a country's law\". The Protocol entered into force on 18 January 2002, and as of December 2013, 166 states are party to the Protocol and another 10 states have signed but not yet ratified it.\n\nThe Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (Convention No 104) of the International Labour Organization (ILO) provides that the \"use, procuring or offering of a child for prostitution\" is one of the \"worst forms of child labor\". This convention, adopted in 1999, provides that countries that had ratified it must eliminate the practice urgently. It enjoys the fastest pace of ratifications in the ILO's history since 1919.\n\nIn the United States, the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 classifies any \"commercial sex act [which] is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act has not attained 18 years of age\" to be a \"Severe Form of Trafficking in Persons\".\n\nIn many countries, especially poorer countries, child prostitution remains a very serious problem, and numerous tourists from the Western World travel to these countries to engage in child sex tourism. Thailand, Cambodia, India, Brazil and Mexico have been identified as leading hotspots of child sexual exploitation.\n\nHuman trafficking, especially of girls and women, often leads to forced prostitution and sexual slavery. According to a report by the UNODC, internationally, the most common destinations for victims of human trafficking are Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Israel, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Turkey and the United States. The major sources of trafficked persons are Thailand, China, Nigeria, Albania, Bulgaria, Belarus, Moldova, and Ukraine.\n\nFollowing the first international conference on the prevention of trafficking of women in Paris in 1885 a series of initiatives to restrict the trade of women into the sex trade were initiated. Both the League of Nations and the United Nations have addressed the issue.\n\nA 2010 United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime report estimates that globally, 79% of identified victims of human trafficking were trafficked for sexual exploitation, 18% for forced labor, and 3% for other forms of exploitation. In 2011, preliminary European Commission in September 2011 similarly estimated that among human-trafficking victims, 75% were trafficked for sexual exploitation and the rest for forced labor or other forms of exploitation.\n\nDue to the illegal nature of prostitution and the different methodologies used in separating forced prostitution from voluntary prostitution, the extent of this phenomenon is difficult to estimate accurately. According to a 2008 report by the U.S. Department of State: \"Annually, according to U.S. Government-sponsored research completed in 2006, 600,000 to 800,000 people are trafficked across national borders, which does not include millions trafficked within their own countries. Approximately 80% of transnational victims are women and girls and up to 50% are minors, and the majority of transnational victims are trafficked into commercial sexual exploitation.\" A 2014 European Commission report found that from 2010 to 2013, a total of 30,146 people were registered as victims of human trafficking in the 28 member states of the European Union; of these, 69% were victims of sexual exploitation.\n\nIn 2004, \"The Economist\" claimed that only a small proportion of prostitutes were explicitly trafficked against their will.\n\nElizabeth Pisani protested against the perceived hysteria around human trafficking preceding sport events like the Super Bowl or World Cup of Soccer.\n\nThe Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children (also referred to as the Palermo Protocol) is a protocol to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and defines human trafficking as the \"recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of persons, by means of the threat or use of force or other forms of coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of deception, of the abuse of power or of a position of vulnerability or of the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person, for the purpose of exploitation.\" For this reason, threat, coercion, or use of force is not necessary to constitute trafficking, the exploitation of an existing vulnerabilitysuch as economic vulnerability or sexual vulnerabilityis sufficient. Sigma Huda, UN special reporter on trafficking in persons, observed that \"For the most part, prostitution as actually practiced in the world usually does satisfy the elements of trafficking.\" However Save the Children see explicit trafficking and prostitution as different issues: \"The issue [human trafficking] however, gets mired in controversy and confusion when prostitution too is considered as a violation of the basic human rights of both adult women and minors, and equal to sexual exploitation per se. From this standpoint then, trafficking and prostitution become conflated with each other\".\n\nWith regard to prostitution, three worldviews exist: \"abolitionism\" (where the prostitute is considered a victim), \"regulation\" (where the prostitute is considered a worker) and \"prohibitionism\" (where the prostitute is considered a criminal). Currently all these views are represented in some Western country.\n\nFor the proponents of the abolitionist view, prostitution is always a coercive practice, and the prostitute is seen as a victim. They argue that most prostitutes are forced into the practice, either directly, by pimps and traffickers, indirectly through poverty, drug addiction and other personal problems, or, as it has been argued in recent decades by radical feminists such as Andrea Dworkin, Melissa Farley and Catharine MacKinnon, merely by patriarchal social structures and power relations between men and women.\nWilliam D. Angel finds that \"most\" prostitutes have been forced into the occupation through poverty, lack of education and employment possibilities. Kathleen Barry argues that there should be no distinction between \"free\" and \"coerced\", \"voluntary\" and \"involuntary\" prostitution, \"since any form of prostitution is a human rights violation, an affront to womanhood that cannot be considered dignified labour\".\nFrance's Green Party argues: \"The concept of \"free choice\" of the prostitute is indeed relative, in a society where gender inequality is institutionalized\". The proponents of the abolitionist view hold that prostitution is a practice which ultimately leads to the mental, emotional and physical destruction of the women who engage in it, and, as such, it should be abolished. As a result of such views on prostitution, Sweden, Norway and Iceland have enacted laws which criminalize the clients of the prostitutes, but not the prostitutes themselves.\n\nIn contrast to the abolitionist view, those who are in favour of legalization do not consider the women who practice prostitution as victims, but as independent adult women who had made a choice which should be respected. Mariska Majoor, former prostitute and founder of the Prostitution Information Center, from Amsterdam, holds that: \"In our [sex workers'] eyes it's a profession, a way of making money; it's important that we are realistic about this ... Prostitution is not bad; it's only bad if done against one's will. Most women make this decision themselves.\" According to proponents of regulation, prostitution should be considered a legitimate activity, which must be recognized and regulated, in order to protect the workers' rights and to prevent abuse. The prostitutes are treated as sex workers who enjoy benefits similar to other occupations. The World Charter for Prostitutes Rights (1985), drafted by the International Committee for Prostitutes' Rights, calls for the decriminalisation of \"all aspects of adult prostitution resulting from individual decision\". Since the mid-1970s, sex workers across the world have organised, demanding the decriminalisation of prostitution, equal protection under the law, improved working conditions, the right to pay taxes, travel and receive social benefits such as pensions. As a result of such views on prostitution, countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and New Zealand have fully legalized prostitution. Prostitution is considered a job like any other, and pimps are seen as businessmen.\n\nIn its understanding of the distinction between sex work and forced prostitution, the Open Society Foundations organization states: \"sex work is done by consenting adults, where the act of selling or buying sexual services is not a violation of human rights\".\n\nSexual discrimination happens to those who work both in sex work and forced prostitution. Historically, crimes involving violence against women and having to do with prostitution and sex work have been taken less seriously by the law. Although acts such as the Violence Against Women Act have been passed to take steps toward preventing such violence, there is still sexism rooted in the way that the legal system approaches these cases. Gender based violence is a serious form of discrimination that has slipped through many cracks in the legal system of the United States. These efforts have fallen short due to the fact that there is no constitutional protection for women against discrimination.\n\nThere is often no evidence, according to police, that when men are arrested for soliciting a prostitute that it is a gender based crime. However, there are large discrepancies between the arrests of prostitutes and the arrests of men caught in the act. While 70% of prostitution related arrests are of woman prostitutes, only 10% of related arrests are men/customers. Regardless if the girl or woman is either underage or forced into the exchange, she is still often arrested and victim blamed instead of being offered resources. The men who are charged with engaging in these illegal acts with woman who are prostitutes are able to pay for the exchange and therefore are usually able to pay for their release while the woman may not be able to. This generates a cycle of violence against women, as the situation’s outcome favors the man. In one case, a nineteen-year-old woman in Oklahoma was charged with offering to engage in prostitution when the woman was known to have previously been a victim of human sex trafficking. She is an example of how the criminalization of prostitution often leads to women being arrested multiple times due to the fact that they are often punished or arrested even when the victim of a situation. Young women and girls have a much higher likelihood of getting arrested for prostitution than boys in general, and woman victims of human trafficking often end up being arrested upon multiple occasions, being registered as a sex offender, and being institutionalized.The lack of rehabilitation given to women after experiences with human sex trafficking contributes to the cycles of arrests that most woman who engage in prostitution face.\n\nThe ERA or Equal Rights Amendment is a proposed amendment to the U.S Constitution that has not yet been ratified. It would guarantee that equal rights could not be denied under the law on account of sex. With this amendment in place, it would allow for sex workers and victims of human sex trafficking to have legal leverage when it comes to the discrepancies in how men and women (customers and prostitutes) are prosecuted. This is due to the fact that there would be legal grounds to argue the unequal legal treatment on account of sex, which is not currently outlawed by the U.S constitution. Although there are other acts and laws that protect against discrimination based on a variety of categories and identities, they are often not substantial enough, provide loopholes, and do not offer adequate protection. This connects to liberal feminism and the more individualistic approach that comes with this theory. Liberal feminists believe that there should be equality between the sexes and this should be gained through equal legal rights, equal education, and women having \"greater self value as individuals\". This theory focuses on equality at a more individual level as supposed to rethinking legal systems themselves or systems of gender, just as the ERA works for the equality of sexes within an existing system.\n\nIn Europe, since the fall of the Iron Curtain, the former Eastern bloc countries such as Albania, Moldova, Bulgaria, Russia, Belarus and Ukraine have been identified as the major source countries for trafficking of women and children. Young women and girls are often lured to wealthier countries by the promises of money and work and then reduced to sexual slavery.\nIt is estimated that two thirds of women trafficked for prostitution worldwide annually come from Eastern Europe and China, three-quarters of whom have never worked as prostitutes before. The major destinations are Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Turkey, the Middle East (Israel, the United Arab Emirates), Asia, Russia and the United States.\n\nIn Mexico, many criminal organisations lure, and capture women and use them in brothels. Once the women become useless to the organisations, they are often killed. Often, the criminal organisations focus on poor, unemployed girls, and lure them via job offerings (regular jobs), done via billboards and posters, placed on the streets. In some cities, like Ciudad Juárez, there is a high degree of corruption in all levels on the social ladder (police, courts, ...) which makes it more difficult to combat this criminal activity. Hotels where women are kept and which are known by the police are often also not raided/closed down by police. Nor are the job offerings actively investigated. Some NGO's such as Nuestras Hijas de Regreso a Casa A.C. are trying to fight back, often without much success.\n\nIn the US, in 2002, the US Department of State repeated an earlier CIA estimate that each year, about 50,000 women and children are brought against their will to the United States for sexual exploitation. Former Secretary of State Colin Powell said that \"[h]ere and abroad, the victims of trafficking toil under inhuman conditionsin brothels, sweatshops, fields and even in private homes.\" In addition to internationally trafficked victims, American citizens are also forced into prostitution. According to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, \"100,000 to 293,000 children are in danger of becoming sexual commodities.\"\n\nEastern European women are trafficked to several Middle Eastern countries, including Turkey and the United Arab Emirates. Until 2004, Israel was a destination for human trafficking for the sex industry.\n\nA high number of the Iraqi women fleeing the Iraq War turned to prostitution, while others were trafficked abroad, to countries like Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, and Iran. In Syria alone, an estimated 50,000 Iraqi refugee girls and women, many of them widows, had become prostitutes. Cheap Iraqi prostitutes helped to make Syria a popular destination for sex tourists before the Syrian Civil War. The clients come from wealthier countries in the Middle East High prices are offered for virgins.\n\nIn Asia, Japan is the major destination country for trafficked women, especially from the Philippines and Thailand. The US State Department has rated Japan as either a ‘Tier 2’ or a ‘Tier 2 Watchlist’ country every year since 2001, in its annual \"Trafficking in Persons\" reports. Both these ratings implied that Japan was (to a greater or lesser extent) not fully compliant with minimum standards for the elimination of human trafficking trade. As of 2009, an estimated 200,000 to 400,000 people are trafficked through Southeast Asia, much of it for prostitution. It is common that Thai women are lured to Japan and sold to Yakuza-controlled brothels where they are forced to work off their price. Further in Japan, prejudice and the absence of anti-discrimination acts often drive a transwoman into forced prostitution. In Cambodia at least a quarter of the 20,000 people working as prostitutes are children with some being as young as 5. By the late 1990s, UNICEF estimated that there are 60,000 child prostitutes in the Philippines, describing Angeles City brothels as \"notorious\" for offering sex with children.\n\nFor the last decade it has been estimated that 6,000 - 7,000 girls are trafficked out of Nepal each year. But these numbers have recently risen substantially. Current numbers for girls trafficked out of the country are now 10,000 to 15,000 yearly. This is compounded as the US Central Intelligence Agency states that most trafficked girls are currently worth, in their span as a sex-worker, approx $250,000 (USD) on the sex-trades market.\n\nThe North Korean state engages in forced prostitution. Girls as young as 14 years old are drafted to work in the \"kippŭmjo\". Not all \"kippŭmjo\" work as prostitutes; the source used is unclear as to whether only adult women are assigned to prostitution, or whether there is prostitution of children. Other \"kippŭmjo\" activities are massaging and half-naked singing and dancing. According to the same source from April 2005, \"60 to 70% of [North Korean] defectors are women, 70 to 80% of whom are victims of human trafficking.\" North Korean authorities severely punish or even kill repatriated prostitutes and kill their Chinese-fathered children, born and unborn alike.\n\nForced prostitution has existed throughout history.\n\nGerman military brothels were set up by the Third Reich during World War II throughout much of occupied Europe for the use of Wehrmacht and SS soldiers. These brothels were generally new creations, but in the West, they were sometimes set up using existing brothels as well as many other buildings. Until 1942, there were around 500 military brothels of this kind in German-occupied Europe. Often operating in confiscated hotels and guarded by the Wehrmacht, these facilities used to serve travelling soldiers and those withdrawn from the front. According to records, at least 34,140 European women were forced to serve as prostitutes during the German occupation of their own countries along with female prisoners of concentration camp brothels. In many cases in Eastern Europe, the women involved were kidnapped on the streets of occupied cities during German military and police round ups called \"łapanka\" or \"rafle\".\n\nIn World War II, Nazi Germany established brothels in the concentration camps (\"Lagerbordell\") to create an incentive for prisoners to collaborate, although these institutions were used mostly by Kapos, \"prisoner functionaries\" and the criminal element, because regular inmates, penniless and emaciated, were usually too debilitated and wary of exposure to Schutzstaffel (SS) schemes. In the end, the camp brothels did not produce any noticeable increase in the prisoners' work productivity levels, but instead, created a market for coupons among the camp VIPs. The women forced into these brothels came mainly from the Ravensbrück concentration camp, except for Auschwitz, which employed its own prisoners. In combination with the German military brothels in World War II, it is estimated that at least 34,140 female inmates were forced into sexual slavery during the Third Reich.\n\nComfort women is a euphemism for women working in military brothels, especially by the Japanese military during World War II.\n\nAround 200,000 are typically estimated to have been involved, with estimates as low as 20,000 from some Japanese scholars and estimates of up to 410,000 from some Chinese scholars, but the disagreement about exact numbers is still being researched and debated. Historians and researchers have stated that the majority were from Korea, China, Japan and Philippines but women from Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia, Taiwan, Indonesia, East Timor and other Japanese-occupied territories were also used in \"comfort stations\". Stations were located in Japan, China, the Philippines, Indonesia, then Malaya, Thailand, then Burma, then New Guinea, Hong Kong, Macau, and what was then French Indochina.\n\nYoung women from countries under Japanese Imperial control were reportedly abducted from their homes. In some cases, women were also recruited with offers to work in the military. It has been documented that the Japanese military itself recruited women by force. However, Japanese historian Ikuhiko Hata stated that there was no organized forced recruitment of comfort women by the Japanese government or military.\n\nThe number and nature of comfort women servicing the Japanese military during World War II is still being actively debated, and the matter is still highly political in both Japan and the rest of the Far East Asia.\n\nMany military brothels were run by private agents and supervised by the Korean Police. Some Japanese historians, using the testimony of ex-comfort women, have argued that the Imperial Japanese Army and Navy were either directly or indirectly involved in coercing, deceiving, luring, and sometimes kidnapping young women throughout Japan's Asian colonies and occupied territories.\n\nIn Southern India & eastern Indian state of Odisha, devadasi is the practice of hierodulic prostitution, with similar customary forms such as basavi, and involves dedicating pre-pubescent and young adolescent girls from villages in a ritual marriage to a deity or a temple, who then work in the temple and function as spiritual guides, dancers, and prostitutes servicing male devotees in the temple. Human Rights Watch reports claim that devadasis are forced into this service and, at least in some cases, to practice prostitution for upper-caste members.\n\nVarious state governments in India enacted laws to ban this practice both prior to India's independence and more recently. They include Bombay Devdasi Act, 1934, Devdasi (Prevention of dedication) Madras Act, 1947, Karnataka Devdasi (Prohibition of dedication) Act, 1982, and Andhra Pradesh Devdasi (Prohibition of dedication) Act, 1988. However, the tradition continues in certain regions of India, particularly the states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1840306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840306", "title": "Genetic fuzzy systems", "text": "Genetic fuzzy systems\n\nGenetic fuzzy systems are fuzzy systems constructed by using genetic algorithms or genetic programming, which mimic the process of natural evolution, to identify its structure and parameter.\n\nWhen it comes to automatically identifying and building a fuzzy system, given the high degree of nonlinearity of the output, traditional linear optimization tools have several limitations. Therefore, in the framework of soft computing, genetic algorithms (GAs) and genetic programming (GP) methods have been used successfully to identify structure and parameters of fuzzy systems.\n\nFuzzy systems are fundamental methodologies to represent and process linguistic information, with mechanisms to deal with uncertainty and imprecision. For instance, the task of modeling a driver parking a car involves greater difficulty in writing down a concise mathematical model as the description becomes more detailed. However, the level of difficulty is not so much using simple linguistic rules, which are themselves fuzzy. With such remarkable attributes, fuzzy systems have been widely and successfully applied to control, classification and modeling problems (Mamdani, 1974) (Klir and Yuan, 1995) (Pedrycz and Gomide, 1998).\n\nAlthough simplistic in its design, the identification of a fuzzy system is a rather complex task that comprises the identification\nof (a) the input and output variables, (b) the rule base (knowledge base), (c) the membership functions and (d) the mapping parameters.\n\nUsually the rule base consists of several IF-THEN rules, linking input(s) and output(s).\nA simple rule of a fuzzy controller could be:\n\nIF (TEMPERATURE = HOT) THEN (COOLING = HIGH)\n\nThe numerical impact/meaning of this rule depends on how the membership functions of HOT and HIGH are shaped and defined.\n\nThe construction and identification of a fuzzy system can be divided into (a) the structure and (b) the parameter identification of a fuzzy system.\n\nThe structure of a fuzzy system is expressed by the input and output variables and the rule base, while the parameters of a fuzzy system are the rule parameters (defining the membership functions, the aggregation operator and the implication function) and the mapping parameters related to the mapping of a crisp set to a fuzzy set, and vice versa. (Bastian, 2000).\n\nMuch work has been done to develop or adapt methodologies that are capable of automatically identifying a fuzzy system from numerical data. Particularly in the framework of soft computing, significant methodologies have been proposed with the objective of building fuzzy systems by means of genetic algorithms (GAs) or genetic programming (GP).\n\nGiven the high degree of nonlinearity of the output of a fuzzy system, traditional linear optimization tools do have their limitations. \nGenetic algorithms have demonstrated to be a robust and very powerful tool to perform tasks such as the generation of fuzzy rule base, optimization of fuzzy rule bases, generation of membership functions, and tuning of membership functions (Cordón et al., 2001a). All these tasks can be considered as optimization or search processes within large solution spaces (Bastian and Hayashi, 1995) (Yuan and Zhuang, 1996) (Cordón et al., 2001b).\n\nWhile genetic algorithms are very powerful tools to identify the fuzzy membership functions of a pre-defined rule base, they have their limitation especially when it also comes to identify the input and output variables of a fuzzy system from a given set of data. Genetic programming has been used to identify the input variables, the rule base as well as the involved membership functions of a fuzzy model (Bastian, 2000)\n\nIn the last decade multi-objective optimization of fuzzy rule based systems has attracted wide interest within the research community and practitioners. It is based on the use of stochastic algorithms for Multi-objective optimization to search for the Pareto efficiency in a multiple objectives scenario. For instance, the objectives to simultaneously optimize can be accuracy and complexity, or accuracy and interpretability. A recent review of the field is provided in the work of Fazzolari et al. (2013). In addition, [1] provides an up-to-date and continuously growing list of references on the subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "40225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40225", "title": "George IV of the United Kingdom", "text": "George IV of the United Kingdom\n\nGeorge IV (George Augustus Frederick; 12 August 1762 – 26 June 1830) was King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and King of Hanover following the death of his father, King George III, on 29 January 1820, until his own death ten years later. From 1811 until his accession, he served as Prince Regent during his father's final mental illness. \n\nGeorge IV led an extravagant lifestyle that contributed to the fashions of the Regency era. He was a patron of new forms of leisure, style and taste. He commissioned John Nash to build the Royal Pavilion in Brighton and remodel Buckingham Palace, and Sir Jeffry Wyattville to rebuild Windsor Castle.\n\nHis charm and culture earned him the title \"the first gentleman of England\", but his dissolute way of life and poor relationships with his parents and his wife, Caroline of Brunswick, earned him the contempt of the people and dimmed the prestige of the monarchy. He forbade Caroline to attend his coronation and asked the government to introduce the unpopular Pains and Penalties Bill in a desperate, unsuccessful attempt to divorce her.\n\nFor most of George's regency and reign, Lord Liverpool controlled the government as Prime Minister. George's ministers found his behaviour selfish, unreliable and irresponsible. At all times he was much under the influence of favourites. Taxpayers were angry at his wasteful spending during the Napoleonic Wars. He did not provide national leadership in time of crisis, nor act as a role model for his people. Liverpool's government presided over Britain's ultimate victory, negotiated the peace settlement, and attempted to deal with the social and economic malaise that followed. After Liverpool's retirement, George was forced to accept Catholic emancipation despite opposing it. His only legitimate child, Princess Charlotte, died before him in 1817 and so he was succeeded by his younger brother, William.\n\nGeorge was born at St James's Palace, London, on 12 August 1762, the first child of the British king George III and Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz. As the eldest son of a British sovereign, he automatically became Duke of Cornwall and Duke of Rothesay at birth; he was created Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester a few days later. On 18 September of the same year, he was baptised by Thomas Secker, Archbishop of Canterbury. His godparents were the Duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz (his maternal uncle, for whom the Duke of Devonshire, Lord Chamberlain, stood proxy), the Duke of Cumberland (his paternal great-uncle) and the Dowager Princess of Wales (his paternal grandmother). George was a talented student, and quickly learned to speak French, German and Italian, in addition to his native English.\n\nAt the age of 18 he was given a separate establishment, and in dramatic contrast with his prosaic, scandal-free father, threw himself with zest into a life of dissipation and wild extravagance involving heavy drinking and numerous mistresses and escapades. He was a witty conversationalist, drunk or sober, and showed good, but grossly expensive, taste in decorating his palace. The Prince of Wales turned 21 in 1783, and obtained a grant of £60,000 (equivalent to £ today) from Parliament and an annual income of £50,000 (equivalent to £ today) from his father. It was far too little for his needs – the stables alone cost £31,000 a year. He then established his residence in Carlton House, where he lived a profligate life. Animosity developed between the prince and his father, who desired more frugal behaviour on the part of the heir apparent. The King, a political conservative, was also alienated by the prince's adherence to Charles James Fox and other radically inclined politicians.\n\nSoon after he reached the age of 21, the prince became infatuated with Maria Fitzherbert. She was a commoner, six years his elder, twice widowed, and a Roman Catholic. Nevertheless, the prince was determined to marry her. This was in spite of the Act of Settlement 1701, which barred the spouse of a Catholic from succeeding to the throne, and the Royal Marriages Act 1772, which prohibited his marriage without the King's consent.\n\nNevertheless, the couple went through a marriage ceremony on 15 December 1785 at her house in Park Street, Mayfair. Legally the union was void, as the King's consent was not granted (and never even requested). However, Fitzherbert believed that she was the prince's canonical and true wife, holding the law of the Church to be superior to the law of the State. For political reasons, the union remained secret and Fitzherbert promised not to reveal it.\n\nThe prince was plunged into debt by his exorbitant lifestyle. His father refused to assist him, forcing him to quit Carlton House and live at Fitzherbert's residence. In 1787, the prince's political allies proposed to relieve his debts with a parliamentary grant. The prince's relationship with Fitzherbert was suspected, and revelation of the illegal marriage would have scandalised the nation and doomed any parliamentary proposal to aid him. Acting on the prince's authority, the Whig leader Charles James Fox declared that the story was a calumny. Fitzherbert was not pleased with the public denial of the marriage in such vehement terms and contemplated severing her ties to the prince. He appeased her by asking another Whig, Richard Brinsley Sheridan, to restate Fox's forceful declaration in more careful words. Parliament, meanwhile, granted the prince £161,000 (equivalent to £ today) to pay his debts and £60,000 (equivalent to £ today) for improvements to Carlton House.\n\nIn the summer of 1788 the King's mental health deteriorated, possibly as the result of the hereditary disease porphyria. He was nonetheless able to discharge some of his duties and to declare Parliament prorogued from 25 September to 20 November. During the prorogation he became deranged, posing a threat to his own life, and when Parliament reconvened in November the King could not deliver the customary speech from the throne during the State Opening of Parliament. Parliament found itself in an untenable position: according to long-established law it could not proceed to any business until the delivery of the King's Speech at a State Opening.\n\nAlthough arguably barred from doing so, Parliament began debating a regency. In the House of Commons, Charles James Fox declared his opinion that the Prince of Wales was automatically entitled to exercise sovereignty during the King's incapacity. A contrasting opinion was held by the prime minister, William Pitt the Younger, who argued that, in the absence of a statute to the contrary, the right to choose a regent belonged to Parliament alone. He even stated that, without parliamentary authority \"the Prince of Wales had no more right ... to assume the government, than any other individual subject of the country.\" Though disagreeing on the principle underlying a regency, Pitt agreed with Fox that the Prince of Wales would be the most convenient choice for a regent.\n\nThe Prince of Wales—though offended by Pitt's boldness—did not lend his full support to Fox's approach. The Prince of Wales's brother, Prince Frederick, Duke of York, declared that George would not attempt to exercise any power without previously obtaining the consent of Parliament. Following the passage of preliminary resolutions Pitt outlined a formal plan for the regency, suggesting that the powers of the Prince of Wales be greatly limited. Among other things, the Prince of Wales would not be able either to sell the King's property or to grant a peerage to anyone other than a child of the King. The Prince of Wales denounced Pitt's scheme, declaring it a \"project for producing weakness, disorder, and insecurity in every branch of the administration of affairs.\" In the interests of the nation, both factions agreed to compromise.\n\nA significant technical impediment to any Regency Bill involved the lack of a speech from the throne, which was necessary before Parliament could proceed to any debates or votes. The speech was normally delivered by the King, but could also be delivered by royal representatives known as Lords Commissioners; but no document could empower the Lords Commissioners to act unless the Great Seal of the Realm was affixed to it. The seal could not be legally affixed without the prior authorisation of the sovereign. Pitt and his fellow ministers ignored the last requirement and instructed the Lord Chancellor to affix the Great Seal without the King's consent, as the act of affixing the Great Seal in itself gave legal force to the bill. This legal fiction was denounced by Edmund Burke as \"forgery, fraud\", a \"glaring falsehood\", and as a \"palpable absurdity\". The Duke of York described the plan as \"unconstitutional and illegal.\" Nevertheless, others in Parliament felt that such a scheme was necessary to preserve an effective government. Consequently, on 3 February 1789, more than two months after it had convened, Parliament was formally opened by an \"illegal\" group of Lords Commissioners. The Regency Bill was introduced, but before it could be passed the King recovered. The King declared retroactively that the instrument authorising the Lords Commissioners to act was valid.\n\nThe Prince of Wales's debts continued to climb, and his father refused to aid him unless he married his cousin Princess Caroline of Brunswick. In 1795, the prince acquiesced; and they were married on 8 April 1795 at the Chapel Royal, St James's Palace. The marriage, however, was disastrous; each party was unsuited to the other. The two were formally separated after the birth of their only child, Princess Charlotte, in 1796, and remained separated thereafter. The Prince remained attached to Maria Fitzherbert for the rest of his life, despite several periods of estrangement.\n\nGeorge's mistresses included Mary Robinson, an actress who was bought off with a generous pension when she threatened to sell his letters to the newspapers; Grace Elliott, the divorced wife of a physician; and Frances Villiers, Countess of Jersey, who dominated his life for some years. In later life, his mistresses were the Marchioness of Hertford and the Marchioness Conyngham, who were both married to aristocrats.\n\nGeorge was rumoured to have fathered several illegitimate children. James Ord (born 1786)—who moved to the United States and became a Jesuit priest—was reportedly his son by Fitzherbert. The King, late in life, told a friend that he had a son who was a naval officer in the West Indies, whose identity has been tentatively established as Captain Henry A. F. Hervey (1786–1824), reportedly George's child by the songwriter Lady Anne Lindsay (later Barnard), a daughter of the 5th Earl of Balcarres. Other reported offspring include Major George Seymour Crole, the son of theatre manager's daughter Eliza Crole; William Hampshire, the son of publican's daughter Sarah Brown; and Charles \"Beau\" Candy, the son of a Frenchwoman with that surname. Anthony Camp, Director of Research at the Society of Genealogists, has dismissed the claims that George IV was the father of Ord, Hervey, Hampshire and Candy as fictitious.\n\nThe problem of the Prince of Wales's debts, which amounted to the extraordinary sum of £630,000 (equivalent to £ today) in 1795, was solved (at least temporarily) by Parliament. Being unwilling to make an outright grant to relieve these debts, it provided him an additional sum of £65,000 (equivalent to £ today) per annum. In 1803, a further £60,000 (equivalent to £ today) was added, and George's debts of 1795 were finally cleared in 1806, although the debts he had incurred since 1795 remained.\n\nIn 1804, a dispute arose over the custody of Princess Charlotte, which led to her being placed in the care of the King, George III. It also led to a Parliamentary Commission of Enquiry into Princess Caroline's conduct after the Prince of Wales accused her of having an illegitimate son. The investigation cleared Caroline of the charge but still revealed her behaviour to have been extraordinarily indiscreet.\n\nIn late 1810, George III was once again overcome by his malady following the death of his youngest daughter, Princess Amelia. Parliament agreed to follow the precedent of 1788; without the King's consent, the Lord Chancellor affixed the Great Seal of the Realm to letters patent naming Lords Commissioners. The letters patent lacked the Royal Sign Manual, but were sealed by request of resolutions passed by both Houses of Parliament. The Lords Commissioners appointed by the letters patent, in the name of the King, then signified the granting of Royal Assent to a bill that became the Regency Act 1811. Parliament restricted some of the powers of the Prince Regent (as the Prince of Wales became known). The constraints expired one year after the passage of the Act. The Prince of Wales became Prince Regent on 5 February 1811.\n\nThe Regent let his ministers take full charge of government affairs, playing a far lesser role than his father. The principle that the prime minister was the person supported by a majority in the House of Commons, whether the king personally favoured him or not, became established. His governments, with little help from the Regent, presided over British policy. One of the most important political conflicts facing the country concerned Catholic emancipation, the movement to relieve Roman Catholics of various political disabilities. The Tories, led by the Prime Minister, Spencer Perceval, were opposed to Catholic emancipation, while the Whigs supported it. At the beginning of the Regency, the Prince of Wales was expected to support the Whig leader, William Grenville, 1st Baron Grenville. He did not, however, immediately put Lord Grenville and the Whigs into office. Influenced by his mother, he claimed that a sudden dismissal of the Tory government would exact too great a toll on the health of the King (a steadfast supporter of the Tories), thereby eliminating any chance of a recovery.\n\nIn 1812, when it appeared highly unlikely that the King would recover, the Prince of Wales again failed to appoint a new Whig administration. Instead, he asked the Whigs to join the existing ministry under Perceval. The Whigs, however, refused to co-operate because of disagreements over Catholic emancipation. Grudgingly, the Prince of Wales allowed Perceval to continue as Prime Minister.\n\nOn 11 May 1812, Perceval was assassinated by John Bellingham. The Prince Regent was prepared to reappoint all the members of the Perceval ministry under a new leader. The House of Commons formally declared its desire for a \"strong and efficient administration\", so the Prince Regent then offered leadership of the government to Richard Wellesley, 1st Marquess Wellesley, and afterwards to Francis Rawdon-Hastings, 2nd Earl of Moira. He doomed the attempts of both to failure, however, by forcing each to construct an all party ministry at a time when neither party wished to share power with the other. Possibly using the failure of the two peers as a pretext, the Prince Regent immediately reappointed the Perceval administration, with Robert Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool, as Prime Minister.\n\nThe Tories, unlike Whigs such as Earl Grey, sought to continue the vigorous prosecution of the war in Continental Europe against the powerful and aggressive Emperor of the French, Napoleon I. An anti-French alliance, which included Russia, Prussia, Austria, Britain and several smaller countries, defeated Napoleon in 1814. In the subsequent Congress of Vienna, it was decided that the Electorate of Hanover, a state that had shared a monarch with Britain since 1714, would be raised to a kingdom, known as the Kingdom of Hanover. Napoleon returned from exile in 1815, but was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo by Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, brother of Marquess Wellesley.\n\nDuring this period George took an active interest in matters of style and taste, and his associates such as the dandy Beau Brummell and the architect John Nash created the Regency style. In London Nash designed the Regency terraces of Regent's Park and Regent Street. George took up the new idea of the seaside spa and had the Brighton Pavilion developed as a fantastical seaside palace, adapted by Nash in the \"Indian Gothic\" style inspired loosely by the Taj Mahal, with extravagant \"Indian\" and \"Chinese\" interiors.\n\nWhen George III died in 1820, the Prince Regent, then aged 57, ascended the throne as George IV, with no real change in his powers. By the time of his accession, he was obese and possibly addicted to laudanum.\n\nGeorge IV's relationship with his wife Caroline had deteriorated by the time of his accession. They had lived separately since 1796, and both were having affairs. In 1814, Caroline left the United Kingdom for continental Europe, but she chose to return for her husband's coronation, and to publicly assert her rights as queen consort. However, George IV refused to recognise Caroline as Queen, and commanded British ambassadors to ensure that monarchs in foreign courts did the same. By royal command, Caroline's name was omitted from the Book of Common Prayer, the liturgy of the Church of England.\n\nThe King sought a divorce, but his advisors suggested that any divorce proceedings might involve the publication of details relating to the King's own adulterous relationships. Therefore, he requested and ensured the introduction of the Pains and Penalties Bill, under which Parliament could have imposed legal penalties without a trial in a court of law. The bill would have annulled the marriage and stripped Caroline of the title of Queen. The bill proved extremely unpopular with the public, and was withdrawn from Parliament. George IV decided, nonetheless, to exclude his wife from his coronation at Westminster Abbey, on 19 July 1821. Caroline fell ill that day and died on 7 August; during her final illness she often stated that she thought she had been poisoned.\nGeorge's coronation was a magnificent and expensive affair, costing about £243,000 (approximately £ in 2018; for comparison, his father's coronation had only cost about £10,000, less than a twentieth of George IV's). Despite the enormous cost, it was a popular event. In 1821 the King became the first monarch to pay a state visit to Ireland since Richard II of England. The following year he visited Edinburgh for \"one and twenty daft days\". His visit to Scotland, organised by Sir Walter Scott, was the first by a reigning British monarch since the mid-17th century.\n\nGeorge IV spent most of his later reign in seclusion at Windsor Castle, but he continued to intervene in politics. At first it was believed that he would support Catholic emancipation, as he had proposed a Catholic Emancipation Bill for Ireland in 1797, but his anti-Catholic views became clear in 1813 when he privately canvassed against the ultimately defeated Catholic Relief Bill of 1813. By 1824 he was denouncing Catholic emancipation in public. Having taken the coronation oath on his accession, George now argued that he had sworn to uphold the Protestant faith, and could not support any pro-Catholic measures. The influence of the Crown was so great, and the will of the Tories under Prime Minister Lord Liverpool so strong, that Catholic emancipation seemed hopeless. In 1827, however, Lord Liverpool retired, to be replaced by the pro-emancipation Tory George Canning. When Canning entered office, the King, hitherto content with privately instructing his ministers on the Catholic Question, thought it fit to make a public declaration to the effect that his sentiments on the question were those of his revered father, George III.\n\nCanning's views on the Catholic Question were not well received by the most conservative Tories, including the Duke of Wellington. As a result, the ministry was forced to include Whigs. Canning died later in that year, leaving Frederick Robinson, 1st Viscount Goderich, to lead the tenuous Tory-Whig coalition. Lord Goderich left office in 1828, to be succeeded by the Duke of Wellington, who had by that time accepted that the denial of some measure of relief to Roman Catholics was politically untenable. George was never as friendly with Wellington as he had been with Canning and chose to annoy the Duke by pretending to have fought at Waterloo disguised as a German general. With great difficulty Wellington obtained the King's consent to the introduction of a Catholic Relief Bill on 29 January 1829. Under pressure from his fanatically anti-Catholic brother, the Duke of Cumberland, the King withdrew his approval and in protest the Cabinet resigned \"en masse\" on 4 March. The next day the King, now under intense political pressure, reluctantly agreed to the Bill and the ministry remained in power. Royal Assent was finally granted to the Catholic Relief Act on 13 April.\n\nGeorge's heavy drinking and indulgent lifestyle had taken their toll on his health by the late 1820s. While still Prince of Wales, he had become obese through his huge banquets and copious consumption of alcohol, making him the target of ridicule on the rare occasions that he appeared in public; by 1797 his weight had reached . By 1824, his corset was made for a waist of . He suffered from gout, arteriosclerosis, peripheral edema (\"dropsy\"), and possibly porphyria. In his last years, he spent whole days in bed and suffered spasms of breathlessness that would leave him half-asphyxiated.\n\nBy December 1828, like his father, George was almost completely blind from cataracts, and was suffering from such severe gout in his right hand and arm that he could no longer sign documents. In mid-1829, Sir David Wilkie reported the King \"was wasting away frightfully day after day\", and had become so obese that he looked \"like a great sausage stuffed into the covering\". The King took laudanum to counteract severe bladder pains, which left him in a drugged and mentally handicapped state for days on end. He underwent surgery to remove a cataract in September 1829, by which time he was regularly taking over 100 drops of laudanum before state occasions.\n\nBy the spring of 1830, George's imminent end was apparent. Now largely confined to his bedchambers, having completely lost sight in one eye and describing himself \"as blind as a beetle\", he was forced to approve legislation with a stamp of his signature in the presence of witnesses. His weight was recorded to be . Attacks of breathlessness due to dropsy forced him to sleep upright in a chair, and doctors frequently tapped his abdomen to drain excess fluid. Despite his obvious decline, George was admired for clinging doggedly to life. His will to live and still-prodigious appetite astonished observers; in April 1830, the Duke of Wellington wrote the King had consumed for breakfast \"a Pidgeon and Beef Steak Pye...Three parts of a bottle of Mozelle, a Glass of Dry Champagne, two Glasses of Port [and] a Glass of Brandy\", followed by a large dose of laudanum. Writing to Maria Fitzherbert in June, the King's doctor, Sir Henry Halford, noted \"His Majesty's constitution is a gigantic one, and his elasticity under the most severe pressure exceeds what I have ever witnessed in thirty-eight years' experience.\" Though George had been under Halford's care since the time of the Regency, the doctor's social ambitions and perceived lack of competence were strongly criticised, with \"The Lancet\" labelling Halford's bulletins on the King's health as \"utterly and entirely destitute of information\", subsequently characterising Halford's treatment of George, which involved administering both opium and laudanum as sedatives, as appearing to lack sense or direction.\n\nGeorge dictated his will in May and became very devout in his final months, confessing to an archdeacon that he repented of his dissolute life, but hoped mercy would be shown to him as he had always tried to do the best for his subjects. By June, he was unable to lie down, and received the Sacrament on 14 June in the presence of Lady Conyngham, Halford and a clergyman. While Halford only informed the Cabinet on 24 June that \"the King's cough continues with considerable expectoration,\" he privately told his wife that \"things are coming to a conclusion...I shall be released about Monday.\"\n\nAt about three in the morning of 26 June 1830 at Windsor Castle, George awoke and passed a bowel movement – \"a large evacuation mix'd with blood.\" He then sent for Halford, allegedly calling to his servants \"Sir Henry! Sir Henry! Fetch him; this is death!\" Accounts of George's final moments and last words vary. According to Halford, following his arrival and that of Sir William Knighton, the King's \"lips grew livid, and he dropped his head on the page's shoulder...I was up the stairs in five minutes, and he died but eight minutes afterwards.\" Other accounts state the King placed his hands on his stomach and said \"Surely, this must be death,\" or that he called out \"Good God, what is this?\", clasped his page's hand, said \"my boy, this is death\", and died. George died at 3:15 a.m. An autopsy conducted by his physicians revealed George had died from upper gastrointestinal bleeding resulting from the rupture of a blood vessel in his stomach. A large tumour \"the size of an orange\" was found attached to his bladder; his heart was enlarged, had heavily calcified valves and was surrounded by a large fat deposit.\n\nThe King was buried in St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, on 15 July. His only legitimate child, Princess Charlotte of Wales, had died from post-partum complications in 1817, after delivering a stillborn son. His oldest brother, George III's second son Prince Frederick, Duke of York and Albany, had died childless in 1827, so the succession passed to the third son of George III, Prince William, Duke of Clarence, who reigned as William IV.\n\nGeorge's last years were marked by increasing physical and mental decay and withdrawal from public affairs. Privately a senior aide to the King confided to his diary: \"A more contemptible, cowardly, selfish, unfeeling dog does not exist ... There have been good and wise kings but not many of them ... and this I believe to be one of the worst.\" On his death \"The Times\" captured elite opinion succinctly: \"There never was an individual less regretted by his fellow-creatures than this deceased king. What eye has wept for him? What heart has heaved one throb of unmercenary sorrow? ... If he ever had a friend – a devoted friend in any rank of life – we protest that the name of him or her never reached us.\" George IV was described as the \"First Gentleman of England\" on account of his style and manners. He possessed many good qualities; he was bright, clever, and knowledgeable. However, his laziness and gluttony led him to squander much of his talent. \"The Times\" wrote, he would always prefer \"a girl and a bottle to politics and a sermon\".\n\nThe Regency period saw a shift in fashion that was largely determined by George. After political opponents put a tax on wig powder, he abandoned wearing a powdered wig in favour of natural hair. He wore darker colours than had been previously fashionable as they helped to disguise his size, favoured pantaloons and trousers over knee breeches because they were looser, and popularised a high collar with neck cloth because it hid his double chin. His visit to Scotland in 1822 led to the revival, if not the creation, of Scottish tartan dress as it is known today.\n\nDuring the political crisis caused by Catholic emancipation, the Duke of Wellington said that George was \"the worst man he ever fell in with his whole life, the most selfish, the most false, the most ill-natured, the most entirely without one redeeming quality\", but his eulogy delivered in the House of Lords called George \"the most accomplished man of his age\" and praised his knowledge and talent. Wellington's true feelings probably lie somewhere between these two extremes; as he said later, George was \"a magnificent patron of the arts ... the most extraordinary compound of talent, wit, buffoonery, obstinacy, and good feeling—in short a medley of the most opposite qualities, with a great preponderance of good—that I ever saw in any character in my life.\"\nThere are many statues of George IV, a large number of which were erected during his reign. In the United Kingdom, they include a bronze statue of him on horseback by Sir Francis Chantrey in Trafalgar Square.\n\nIn Edinburgh, \"George IV Bridge\" is a main street linking the Old Town High Street to the north over the ravine of the Cowgate, designed by the architect Thomas Hamilton in 1829 and completed in 1835. King's Cross, now a major transport hub sitting on the border of Camden and Islington in north London, takes its name from a short-lived monument erected to George IV in the early 1830s. A square and a neighbouring park in St Luke's, Islington, are also named after George IV.\n\n\nAt birth, he was also entitled to the dignities Prince of Great Britain and Ireland, Electoral Prince of Brunswick-Lüneburg and Duke of Rothesay. Under the Act of Parliament that instituted the regency, the prince's formal title as regent was \"Regent of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland\".\n\n\n\n\nGeorge's coat of arms as the Prince of Wales was the royal arms (with an inescutcheon of Gules plain in the Hanoverian quarter), differenced by a label of three points Argent. The arms included the royal crest and supporters but with the single arched coronet of his rank, all charged on the shoulder with a similar label. His arms followed the change in the royal arms in 1801, when the Hanoverian quarter became an inescutcheon and the French quarter was dropped altogether. The 1816 alteration did not affect him as it only applied to the arms of the King.\n\nAs king his arms were those of his two kingdoms, the United Kingdom and Hanover, superimposed: Quarterly, I and IV Gules three lions passant guardant in pale Or (for England); II Or a lion rampant within a double tressure flory-counter-flory Gules (for Scotland); III Azure a harp Or stringed Argent (for Ireland); overall an escutcheon tierced in pall reversed (for Hanover), I Gules two lions passant guardant Or (for Brunswick), II Or a semy of hearts Gules a lion rampant Azure (for Lüneburg), III Gules a horse courant Argent (for Westphalia), overall an inescutcheon Gules charged with the crown of Charlemagne Or, the whole escutcheon surmounted by a crown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12789", "title": "Gerald Gardner (Wiccan)", "text": "Gerald Gardner (Wiccan)\n\nGerald Brosseau Gardner (1884–1964), also known by the craft name Scire, was an English Wiccan, as well as an author and an amateur anthropologist and archaeologist. He was instrumental in bringing the Contemporary Pagan religion of Wicca to public attention, writing some of its definitive religious texts and founding the tradition of Gardnerian Wicca.\n\nBorn into an upper-middle-class family in Blundellsands, Lancashire, Gardner spent much of his childhood abroad in Madeira. In 1900, he moved to colonial Ceylon, and then in 1911 to Malaya, where he worked as a civil servant, independently developing an interest in the native peoples and writing papers and a book about their magical practices. After his retirement in 1936, he travelled to Cyprus, penning the novel \"A Goddess Arrives\" before returning to England. Settling down near the New Forest, he joined an occult group, the Rosicrucian Order Crotona Fellowship, through which he said he had encountered the New Forest coven into which he was initiated in 1939. Believing the coven to be a survival of the pre-Christian witch-cult discussed in the works of Margaret Murray, he decided to revive the faith, supplementing the coven's rituals with ideas borrowed from Freemasonry, ceremonial magic and the writings of Aleister Crowley to form the Gardnerian tradition of Wicca.\n\nMoving to London in 1945, he became intent on propagating this religion, attracting media attention and writing about it in \"High Magic's Aid\" (1949), \"Witchcraft Today\" (1954) and \"The Meaning of Witchcraft\" (1959). Founding a Wiccan group known as the Bricket Wood coven, he introduced a string of High Priestesses into the religion, including Doreen Valiente, Lois Bourne, Patricia Crowther and Eleanor Bone, through which the Gardnerian community spread throughout Britain and subsequently into Australia and the United States in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Involved for a time with Cecil Williamson, Gardner also became director of the Museum of Magic and Witchcraft on the Isle of Man, which he ran until his death.\n\nGardner is internationally recognised as the \"Father of Wicca\" among the Pagan and occult communities. His claims regarding the New Forest coven have been widely scrutinised, with Gardner being the subject of investigation for historians and biographers Aidan Kelly, Ronald Hutton and Philip Heselton.\n\nGardner's family was wealthy and upper middle class, running a family firm, Joseph Gardner and Sons, which described itself as \"the oldest private company in the timber trade within the British Empire.\" Specialising in the import of hardwood, the company had been founded in the mid-18th century by Edmund Gardner (b. 1721), an entrepreneur who would subsequently become a Freeman of Liverpool. Gerald's father, William Robert Gardner (1844–1935) had been the youngest son of Joseph Gardner (b. 1791), after whom the firm had been renamed, and who with his wife Maria had had five sons and three daughters. In 1867, William had been sent to New York City, in order to further the interests of the family firm. Here, he had met an American, Louise Burguelew Ennis, the daughter of a wholesale stationer; entering a relationship, they were married in Manhattan on 25 November 1868. After a visit to England, the couple returned to the US, where they settled in Mott Haven, Morrisania in New York State. It was here that their first child, Harold Ennis Gardner, was born in 1870. At some point in the next two years they moved back to England, by 1873 settling into The Glen, a large Victorian house in Blundellsands in Lancashire, north-west England, which was developing into a wealthy suburb of Liverpool. It was here that their second child, Robert \"Bob\" Marshall Gardner, was born in 1874.\nIn 1876 the family moved into one of the neighbouring houses, Ingle Lodge, and it was here that the couple's third son, Gerald Brosseau Gardner, was born on Friday 13 June 1884. A fourth child, Francis Douglas Gardner, was then born in 1886. Gerald would rarely see Harold, who went on to study Law at the University of Oxford, but saw more of Bob, who drew pictures for him, and Douglas, with whom he shared his nursery. The Gardners employed an Irish nursemaid named Josephine \"Com\" McCombie, who was entrusted with taking care of the young Gerald; she would subsequently become the dominant figure of his childhood, spending far more time with him than his parents. Gardner suffered with asthma from a young age, having particular difficulty in the cold Lancashire winters. His nursemaid offered to take him to warmer climates abroad at his father's expense in the hope that this condition would not be so badly affected. Subsequently, in summer 1888, Gerald and Com travelled via London to Nice in the south of France. After several more years spent in the Mediterranean, in 1891 they went to the Canary Islands, and it was here that Gardner first developed his lifelong interest in weaponry. From there, they then went on to Accra in the Gold Coast (modern Ghana). Accra was followed by a visit to Funchal on the Portuguese colony of Madeira; they would spend most of the next nine years on the island, only returning to England for three or four months in the summer.\n\nAccording to Gardner's first biographer, Jack Bracelin, Com was very flirtatious and \"clearly looked on these trips as mainly manhunts\", viewing Gardner as a nuisance. As a result, he was largely left to his own devices, which he spent going out, meeting new people and learning about foreign cultures. In Madeira, he also began collecting weapons, many of which were remnants from the Napoleonic Wars, displaying them on the wall of his hotel room. As a result of his illness and these foreign trips, Gardner ultimately never attended school, or gained any formal education. He taught himself to read by looking at copies of \"The Strand Magazine\" but his writing betrayed his poor education all his life, with highly eccentric spelling and grammar. A voracious reader, one of the books that most influenced him at the time was Florence Marryat's \"There Is No Death\" (1891), a discussion of spiritualism, and from which he gained a firm belief in the existence of an afterlife.\n\nIn 1900, Com married David Elkington, one of her many suitors who owned a tea plantation in the British colony of Ceylon (modern Sri Lanka). It was agreed with the Gardners that Gerald would live with her on a tea plantation named Ladbroke Estate in Maskeliya district, where he could learn the tea trade. In 1901 Gardner and the Elkingtons lived briefly in a bungalow in Kandy, where a neighbouring bungalow had just been vacated by the occultists Aleister Crowley and Charles Henry Allan Bennett. At his father's expense, Gardner trained as a \"creeper\", or trainee planter, learning all about the growing of tea; although he disliked the \"dreary endlessness\" of the work, he enjoyed being outdoors and near to the forests. He lived with the Elkingtons until 1904, when he moved into his own bungalow and began earning a living working on the Non Pareil tea estate below the Horton Plains. He spent much of his spare time hunting deer and trekking through the local forests, becoming acquainted with the Singhalese natives and taking a great interest in their Buddhist beliefs. In December 1904, his parents and younger brother visited, with his father asking him to invest in a pioneering rubber plantation which Gardner was to manage; located near the village of Belihil Oya, it was known as the Atlanta Estate, but allowed him a great deal of leisure time. Exploring his interest in weaponry, in 1907 Gardner joined the Ceylon Planters Rifle Corps, a local volunteer force composed of European tea and rubber planters intent on protecting their interests from foreign aggression or domestic insurrection.\n\nIn 1907 Gardner returned to Britain for several months' leave, spending time with his family and joining the Legion of Frontiersmen, a militia founded to repel the threat of German invasion. During his visit, Gardner spent a lot of time with family relations known as the Sergenesons. Gardner became very friendly with this side of his family, whom his Anglican parents avoided because they were Methodists. According to Gardner, the Surgenesons readily talked about the paranormal with him; the patriarch of the family, Ted Surgeneson, believed that fairies were living in his garden and would say \"I can often feel they're there, and sometimes I've seen them\", though he readily admitted the possibility that it was all in his imagination. It was from the Sergenesons that Gardner claimed to have discovered a family rumour that his grandfather, Joseph, had been a practising witch, after being converted to the practice by his mistress. Another unconfirmed family belief repeated by Gardner was that a Scottish ancestor, Grissell Gairdner, had been burned as a witch in Newburgh in 1610.\nGardner returned to Ceylon in late 1907 and settled down to the routine of managing the rubber plantation. In 1910 he was initiated as an Apprentice Freemason into the Sphinx Lodge No. 107 in Colombo, affiliated with the Irish Grand Lodge. Gardner placed great importance on this new activity; In order to attend masonic meetings, he had to arrange a weekend's leave, walk 15 miles to the nearest railway station in Haputale, and then catch a train to the city. He entered into the second and third degrees of Freemasonry within the next month, but this enthusiasm seems also to have waned, and he resigned the next year, probably because he intended to leave Ceylon. The experiment with rubber growing at the Atlanta Estate had proved relatively unsuccessful, and Gardner's father decided to sell the property in 1911, leaving Gerald unemployed.\n\nThat year, Gardner moved to Borneo, gaining employment as a rubber planter at the Mawo Estate at Membuket. However, he did not get on well with the plantation's manager, a racist named R. J. Graham who had wanted to deforest the entire local area. Instead Gardner became friendly with many of the locals, including the Dyak and Dusun people. An amateur anthropologist, Gardner was fascinated by the indigenous way of life, particularly the local forms of weaponry such as the \"sumpitan\". He was intrigued by the tattoos of the Dayaks and pictures of him in later life show large snake or dragon tattoos on his forearms, presumably obtained at this time. Taking a great interest in indigenous religious beliefs, Gardner told his first biographer that he had attended Dusun séances or healing rituals. He was unhappy with the working conditions and the racist attitudes of his colleagues, and when he developed malaria he felt that this was the last straw; he left Borneo and moved to Singapore, in what was then known as the Straits Settlements, part of British Malaya.\n\nArriving in Singapore, he initially planned to return to Ceylon, but was offered a job working as an assistant on a rubber plantation in Perak, northern Malaya, and decided to take it, working for the Borneo Company. Arriving in the area, he decided to supplement this income by purchasing his own estate, Bukit Katho, on which he could grow rubber; initially sized at 450 acres, Gardner purchased various pieces of adjacent land until it covered 600 acres. Here, Gardner made friends with an American man known as Cornwall, who had converted to Islam and married a local Malay woman. Through Cornwall, Gardner was introduced to many locals, whom he soon befriended, including members of the Senoi and Malay peoples. Cornwall invited Gardner to make the \"Shahada\", the Muslim confession of faith, which he did; it allowed him to gain the trust of locals, although would he would never become a practising Muslim. Cornwall was however an unorthodox Muslim, and his interest in local peoples included their magical and spiritual beliefs, to which he also introduced Gardner, who took a particular interest in the \"kris\", a ritual knife with magical uses.\n\nIn 1915, Gardner again joined a local volunteer militia, the Malay States Volunteer Rifles. Although between 1914 and 1918 World War I was raging in Europe, its effects were little felt in Malaya, apart from the 1915 Singapore Mutiny. Gardner was keen to do more towards the war effort and in 1916 once again returned to Britain. He attempted to join the British Navy, but was turned down due to ill health. Unable to fight on the front lines, he began working as an orderly in the Voluntary Aid Detachment (VAD) in the First Western General Hospital, Fazakerley, located on the outskirts of Liverpool. He was working in the VAD when casualties came back from the Battle of the Somme and he was engaged in looking after patients and assisting in changing wound dressings. He soon had to give this up when his malaria returned, and so decided to return to Malaya in October 1916 because of the warmer climate.\n\nHe continued to manage the rubber plantation but after the end of the war, commodity prices dropped and by 1921 it was difficult to make a profit. He returned again to Britain, in what later biographer Philip Heselton speculated might have been an unsuccessful attempt to ask his father for money. Returning to Malaya, Gardner found that the Borneo Company had sacked him, and he was forced to find work with the Public Works Department. In September 1923 he successfully applied to the Office of Customs to become a government-inspector of rubber plantations, a job that involved a great amount of travelling around the country, something he enjoyed. After a brief but serious illness, the Johore government reassigned Gardner to an office in the Lands Office while he recovered, eventually being promoted to Principal Officer of Customs. In this capacity, he was made an Inspector of Rubber Shops, overseeing the regulation and sale of rubber in the country. In 1926 he was placed in charge of monitoring shops selling opium, noting regular irregularities and a thriving illegal trade in the controlled substance; believing opium to be essentially harmless, there is evidence indicating that Gardner probably took many bribes in this position, earning himself a small fortune.\n\nGardner's mother had died in 1920, but he had not returned to Britain on that occasion. However, in 1927 his father became very ill with dementia, and Gardner decided to visit him. On his return to Britain, Gardner began to investigate spiritualism and mediumship. He soon had several encounters which he attributed to spirits of deceased family members. Continuing to visit Spiritualist churches and séances, he was highly critical of much of what he saw, although he encountered several mediums he considered genuine. One medium apparently made contact with a deceased cousin of Gardner's, an event which impressed him greatly. His first biographer Jack Bracelin reports that this was a watershed in Gardner's life, and that a previous academic interest in spiritualism and life after death thereafter became a matter of firm personal belief for him. The very same evening (28 July 1927) after Gardner had met this medium, he met the woman he was to marry; Dorothea Frances Rosedale, known as Donna, a relation of his sister-in-law Edith. He asked her to marry him the next day and she agreed. Because his leave was coming to an end very soon, they married quickly on 16 August at St Jude's Church, Kensington, and then honeymooned in Ryde on the Isle of Wight, before heading via France to Malaya.\n\nArriving in the country, the couple settled into a bungalow at Bukit Japon in Johore Bahru. Here, he once more became involved in Freemasonry, joining the Johore Royal Lodge No. 3946, but had retired from it by April 1931. Gardner also returned to his old interests in the anthropology of Malaya, witnessing the magical practices performed by the locals, and he readily accepted a belief in magic. During his time in Malaya, Gardner became increasingly interested in local customs, particularly those involved in folk magic and weapons. Gardner was not only interested in the anthropology of Malaya, but also in its archaeology. He began excavations at the city of Johore Lama, alone and in secret, as the local Sultan considered archaeologists little better than grave-robbers. Prior to Gardner's investigations, no serious archaeological excavation had occurred at the city, though he himself soon unearthed four miles of earthworks, and uncovered finds that included tombs, pottery, and porcelain dating from Ming China. He went on to begin further excavations at the royal cemetery of Kota Tinggi, and the jungle city of Syong Penang. His finds were displayed as an exhibit on the \"Early History of Johore\" at the National Museum of Singapore, and several beads that he had discovered suggested that trade went on between the Roman Empire and the Malays, presumably, Gardner thought, via India. He also found gold coins originating from Johore and he published academic papers on both the beads and the coins.\n\nBy the early 1930s Gardner's activities had moved from those exclusively of a civil servant, and he began to think of himself more as a folklorist, archaeologist and anthropologist. He was encouraged in this by the director of the Raffles Museum (now the National Museum of Singapore) and by his election to Fellowship of the Royal Anthropological Institute in 1936. En route back to London in 1932 Gardner stopped off in Egypt and, armed with a letter of introduction, joined Sir Flinders Petrie who was excavating the site of Tall al-Ajjul in Palestine. Arriving in London in August 1932 he attended a conference on prehistory and protohistory at King's College London, attending at least two lectures which described the cult of the Mother Goddess. He also befriended the archaeologist and practising Pagan Alexander Keiller, known for his excavations at Avebury, who would encourage Gardner to join in with the excavations at Hembury Hill in Devon, also attended by Aileen Fox and Mary Leakey.\n\nReturning to East Asia, he took a ship from Singapore to Saigon in French Indo-China, from where he travelled to Phnom Penh, visiting the Silver Pagoda. He then took a train to Hangzhou in China, before continuing onto Shanghai; because of the ongoing Chinese Civil War, the train did not stop throughout the entire journey, something that annoyed the passengers. In 1935, Gardner attended the Second Congress for Prehistoric Research in the Far East in Manila, Philippines, acquainting himself with several experts in the field. His main research interest lay in the Malay \"kris\" blade, which he unusually chose to spell \"keris\"; he eventually collected 400 examples and talked to natives about their magico-religious uses. Deciding to author a book on the subject, he wrote \"Keris and Other Malay Weapons\", being encouraged to do so by anthropologist friends; it would subsequently edited into a readable form by Betty Lumsden Milne and published by the Singapore-based Progressive Publishing Company in 1936. It was well received by literary and academic circles in Malaya. In 1935, Gardner heard that his father had died, leaving him a bequest of £3,000. This assurance of financial independence may have led him to consider retirement, and as he was due for a long leave in 1936 the Johore Civil Service allowed him to retire slightly early, in January 1936. Gardner wanted to stay in Malaya, but he conceded to his wife Donna, who insisted that they return to England.\n\nIn 1936, Gardner and Donna left Malaya and headed for Europe. She proceeded straight to London, renting them a flat at 26 Charing Cross Road. Gardner visited Palestine, becoming involved in the archaeological excavations run by J.L. Starkey at Lachish. Here he grew particularly interested in a temple containing statues to both the male deity of Judeo-Christian theology and the pagan goddess Ashtoreth. From Palestine, Gardner went to Turkey, Greece, Hungary, and Germany. He eventually reached England, but soon went on a visit to Denmark to attend a conference on weaponry at the Christiansborg Palace, Copenhagen, during which he gave a talk on the \"kris\".\n\nReturning to Britain, he found that the climate made him sick, leading him to register with a doctor, Edward A.Gregg, who recommended that he try nudism. Hesitant at first, Gardner first attended an in-door nudist club, the Lotus League in Finchley, North London, where he made several new friends and felt that the nudity cured his ailment. When summer came, he decided to visit an outdoor nudist club, that of Fouracres near the town of Bricket Wood in Hertfordshire, which he soon began to frequent. Through nudism, Gardner made a number of notable friends, including James Laver (1899–1975), who became the Keeper of Prints and Drawings at the Victoria and Albert Museum, and Cottie Arthur Burland (1905–1983), who was the Curator of the Department of Ethnography at the British Museum. Biographer Philip Heselton suggested that through the nudist scene Gardner may have also met Dion Byngham (1896–1990), a senior member of the Order of Woodcraft Chivalry who propounded a Contemporary Pagan religion known as Dionysianism. By the end of 1936, Gardner was finding his Charing Cross Road flat to be cramped, and moved into the block of flats at 32a Buckingham Palace Mansions.\n\nFearing the cold of the English winter, Gardner decided to sail to Cyprus in late 1936, remaining there into the following year. Visiting the Museum in Nicosia, he studied the Bronze Age swords of the island, successfully hafting one of them, on the basis of which he wrote a paper entitled \"The Problem of the Cypriot Bronze Dagger Hilt\", which would subsequently be translated into both French and Danish, being published in the journals of the Société Préhistorique Française and the Vaabenhistorisk Selskab respectively. Back in London, in September 1937, Gardner applied for and received a Doctorate of Philosophy from the Meta Collegiate Extension of the National Electronic Institute, an organisation based in Nevada that was widely recognised by academic institutions as offering invalid academic degrees via post for a fee. He would subsequently style himself as \"Dr. Gardner\", despite the fact that academic institutions would not recognise his qualifications.\n\nPlanning to return to the Palestinian excavations the following winter, he was prevented from doing so when Starkey was murdered. Instead he decided to return to Cyprus. A believer in reincarnation, Gardner came to believe that he had lived on the island once before, in a previous life, subsequently buying a plot of land in Famagusta, planning to build a house on it, although this never came about. Influenced by his dreams, he wrote his first novel, \"A Goddess Arrives\", over the next few years. Revolving around an Englishman living in 1930s London named Robert Denvers who has recollections of a previous life as a Bronze Age Cypriot – an allusion to Gardner himself – the primary plot of \"A Goddess Arrives\" is set in ancient Cyprus and featured a queen, Dayonis, who practices sorcery in an attempt to help her people defend themselves from invading Egyptians. Published in late 1939, biographer Philip Heselton noted that the book was \"a very competent first work of fiction\", with strong allusions to the build-up which proceeded World War II. Returning to London, he helped to dig shelter trenches in Hyde Park as a part of the build-up to the war, also volunteering for the Air Raid Wardens' Service. Fearing the bombing of the city, Gardner and his wife soon moved to Highcliffe, just south of the New Forest in Hampshire. Here, they purchased a house built in 1923 named Southridge, situated on the corner of Highland Avenue and Elphinstone Road.\n\nIn Highcliffe, Gardner came across a building describing itself as the \"First Rosicrucian Theatre in England\". Having an interest in Rosicrucianism, a prominent magico-religious tradition within Western esotericism, Gardner decided to attend one of the plays performed by the group; in August 1939, Gardner took his wife to a theatrical performance based on the life of Pythagoras. An amateur thespian, she hated the performance, thinking the quality of both actors and script terrible, and she refused to go again. Unperturbed and hoping to learn more of Rosicrucianism, Gardner joined the group in charge of running the theatre, the Rosicrucian Order Crotona Fellowship, and began attending meetings held in their local \"ashram\". Founded in 1920 by George Alexander Sullivan, the Fellowship had been based upon a blend of Rosicrucianism, Theosophy, Freemasonry and his own personal innovation, and had moved to Christchurch in 1930.\n\nAs time went by, Gardner became critical of many of the Rosicrucian Order's practices; Sullivan's followers claimed that he was immortal, having formerly been the famous historical figures Pythagoras, Cornelius Agrippa and Francis Bacon. Gardner facetiously asked if he was also the Wandering Jew, much to the annoyance of Sullivan himself. Another belief held by the group that Gardner found amusing was that a lamp hanging from one of the ceilings was the disguised holy grail of Arthurian legend. Gardner's dissatisfaction with the group grew, particularly when in 1939, one of the group's leaders sent a letter out to all members in which she stated that war would not come. The very next day, Britain declared war on Germany, greatly unimpressing the increasingly cynical Gardner.\n\nAlongside Rosicrucianism, Gardner had also been pursuing other interests. In 1939, Gardner joined the Folk-Lore Society; his first contribution to its journal \"Folk-Lore\", appeared in the June 1939 issue and described a box of witchcraft relics that he believed had belonged to the 17th century \"Witch-Finder General\", Matthew Hopkins. Subsequently, in 1946 he would go on to become a member of the society's governing council, although most other members of the society were wary of him and his academic credentials. Gardner would also join the Historical Association, being elected Co-President of its Bournemouth and Christchurch branch in June 1944, following which he became a vocal supporter for the construction of a local museum for the Christchurch borough. He also involved himself in preparations for the impending war, joining the Air Raid Precautions (ARP) as a warden, where he soon rose to a position of local seniority, with his own house being assigned as the ARP post. In 1940, following the outbreak of conflict, he also tried to sign up for the Local Defence Volunteers, or \"Home Guard\", but was turned away because he was already an ARP warden. He managed to circumvent this restriction by joining his local Home Guard in the capacity as armourer, which was officially classified as technical staff. Gardner took a strong interest in the Home Guard, helping to arm his fellows from his own personal weaponry collection and personally manufacturing molotov cocktails.\n\nAlthough sceptical of the Rosicrucian Order, Gardner got on well with a group of individuals inside the group who were \"rather brow-beaten by the others, kept themselves to themselves.\" Gardner's biographer Philip Heselton theorised that this group consisted of Edith Woodford-Grimes (1887–1975), Susie Mason, her brother Ernie Mason, and their sister Rosetta Fudge, all of whom had originally come from Southampton before moving to the area around Highcliffe, where they joined the Order. According to Gardner, \"unlike many of the others [in the Order], [they] had to earn their livings, were cheerful and optimistic and had a real interest in the occult\". Gardner became \"really very fond of them\", remarking that he \"would have gone through hell and high water even then for any of them.\" In particular he grew close to Woodford-Grimes, being invited over to her home to meet her daughter, and the two helped each other with their writing, Woodford-Grimes probably assisting Gardner edit \"A Goddess Arrives\" prior to publication. Gardner would subsequently give her the nickname \"Dafo\", for which she would become better known.\nAccording to Gardner's later account, one night in September 1939 they took him to a large house owned by \"Old Dorothy\" Clutterbuck, a wealthy local woman, where he was made to strip naked and taken through an initiation ceremony. Halfway through the ceremony, he heard the word \"Wica\", and he recognised it as an Old English word for \"witch\". He was already acquainted with Margaret Murray's theory of the Witch-cult, and that \"I then knew then that which I had thought burnt out hundreds of years ago still survived.\" This group, he claimed, were the New Forest coven, and he believed them to be one of the few surviving covens of the ancient, pre-Christian Witch-Cult religion. Subsequent research by the likes of Hutton and Heselton has shown that in fact the New Forest coven was probably only formed in the mid-1930s, based upon such sources as folk magic and the theories of Margaret Murray.\n\nGardner only ever described one of their rituals in depth, and this was an event that he termed \"Operation Cone of Power\". According to his own account, it took place in 1940 in a part of the New Forest and was designed to ward off the Nazis from invading Britain by magical means. Gardner claimed that a \"Great Circle\" was erected at night, with a \"great cone of power\" – a form of magical energy – being raised and sent to Berlin with the command of \"you cannot cross the sea, you cannot cross the sea, you cannot come, you cannot come\".\n\nThroughout his time in the New Forest, Gardner had regularly travelled to London, keeping his flat at Buckingham Palace Mansions until mid-1939 and regularly visiting the Spielplatz nudist club there. At Spielplatz he befriended Ross Nichols, whom he would later introduce to the Pagan religion of Druidry; Nichols would become enamoured with this faith, eventually founding the Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids. However, following the war, Gardner decided to return to London, moving into 47 Ridgemount Gardens, Bloomsbury in late 1944 or early 1945. Continuing his interest in nudism, in 1945 he purchased a plot of land in Fouracres, a nudist colony near to the village of Bricket Wood in Hertfordshire that would soon be renamed Five Acres. As a result, he would become one of the major shareholders at the club, exercising a significant level of power over any administrative decisions and was involved in a recruitment drive to obtain more members.\n\nBetween 1936 and 1939, Gardner befriended the Christian mystic J.S.M. Ward, proprietor of the Abbey Folk Park, Britain's oldest open-air museum. One of the exhibits was a 16th-century cottage that Ward had found near to Ledbury, Herefordshire and had transported to his park, where he exhibited it as a \"witch's cottage\". Gardner made a deal with Ward exchanging the cottage for Gardner's piece of land near to Famagusta in Cyprus. The witch's cottage was dismantled and the parts transported to Bricket Wood, where they were reassembled on Gardner's land at Five Acres. In Midsummer 1947 he held a ceremony in the cottage as a form of house-warming, which Heselton speculated was probably based upon the ceremonial magic rites featured in \"The Key of Solomon\" grimoire.\n\nFurthering his interest in esoteric Christianity, in August 1946 Gardner was ordained as a priest in the Ancient British Church, a fellowship open to anyone who considered themselves a monotheist. Gardner also took an interest in Druidry, joining the Ancient Druid Order (ADO) and attending its annual Midsummer rituals at Stonehenge. He also joined the Folk-Lore Society, being elected to their council in 1946, and that same year giving a talk on \"Art Magic and Talismans\". Nevertheless, many fellows – including Katherine Briggs – were dismissive of Gardner's ideas and his fraudulent academic credentials. In 1946 he also joined the Society for Psychical Research.\n\nOn May Day 1947, Gardner's friend Arnold Crowther introduced him to Aleister Crowley, the ceremonial magician who had founded the religion of Thelema in 1904. Shortly before his death, Crowley elevated Gardner to the IV° of Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.) and issued a charter decreeing that Gardner could admit people into its Minerval degree. The charter itself was written in Gardner's handwriting and only signed by Crowley. From November 1947 to March 1948, Gardner and his wife toured the United States visiting relatives in Memphis, also visiting New Orleans, where Gardner hoped to learn about Voodoo. During his voyage, Crowley had died, and as a result Gardner considered himself the head of the O.T.O. in Europe, (a position accepted by Lady Frieda Harris). He met Crowley's successor, Karl Germer, in New York though Gardner would soon lose interest in leading the O.T.O., and in 1951 he was replaced by Frederic Mellinger as the O.T.O.'s European representative.\n\nGardner hoped to spread Wicca, and described some of its practices in a fictional form as \"High Magic's Aid\". Set in the twelfth-century, Gardner included scenes of ceremonial magic based on \"The Key of Solomon\". Published by the Atlantis Bookshop in July 1949, Gardner's manuscript had been edited into a publishable form by astrologer Madeline Montalban. Privately, he had also begun work on a scrapbook known as \"Ye Bok of Ye Art Magical\", in which he wrote down a number of Wiccan rituals and spells. This would prove to be the prototype for what he later termed a Book of Shadows. He also gained some of his first initiates, Barbara and Gilbert Vickers, who were initiated at some point between autumn 1949 and autumn 1950.\n\nGardner also came into contact with Cecil Williamson, who was intent on opening his own museum devoted to witchcraft; the result would be the Folk-lore Centre of Superstition and Witchcraft, opened in Castletown on the Isle of Man in 1951. Gardner and his wife moved to the island, where he took up the position of \"resident witch\". On 29 July, the \"Sunday Pictorial\" published an article about the museum in which Gardner declared \"Of course I'm a witch. And I get great fun out of it.\" The museum was not a financial success, and the relationship between Gardner and Williamson deteriorated. In 1954, Gardner bought the museum from Williamson, who returned to England to found the rival Museum of Witchcraft, eventually settling it in Boscastle, Cornwall. Gardner renamed his exhibition the Museum of Magic and Witchcraft and continued running it up until his death. He also acquired a flat at 145 Holland Road, near Shepherd's Bush in West London, but nevertheless fled to warmer climates during the winter, where his asthma would not be so badly affected, for instance spending time in France, Italy, and the Gold Coast. From his base in London, he would frequent Atlantis bookshop, thereby encountering a number of other occultists, including Austin Osman Spare and Kenneth Grant, and he also continued his communication with Karl Germer until 1956.\n\nIn 1952, Gardner had begun to correspond with a young woman named Doreen Valiente. She eventually requested initiation into the Craft, and though Gardner was hesitant at first, he agreed that they could meet during the winter at the home of Edith Woodford-Grimes. Valiente got on well with both Gardner and Woodford-Grimes, and having no objections to either ritual nudity or scourging (which she had read about in a copy of Gardner's novel \"High Magic's Aid\" that he had given to her), she was initiated by Gardner into Wicca on Midsummer 1953. Valiente went on to join the Bricket Wood Coven. She soon rose to become the High Priestess of the coven, and helped Gardner to revise his Book of Shadows, and attempting to cut out most of Crowley's influence.\n\nIn 1954, Gardner published a non-fiction book, \"Witchcraft Today\", containing a preface by Margaret Murray, who had published her theory of a surviving Witch-Cult in her 1921 book, \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\". In his book, Gardner not only espoused the survival of the Witch-Cult, but also his theory that a belief in faeries in Europe was due to a secretive pygmy race that lived alongside other communities, and that the Knights Templar had been initiates of the Craft. Alongside this book, Gardner began to increasingly court publicity, going so far as to invite the press to write articles about the religion. Many of these turned out very negatively for the cult; one declared \"Witches Devil-Worship in London!\", and another accused him of whitewashing witchcraft in his luring of people into covens. Gardner continued courting publicity, despite the negative articles that many tabloids were producing, and believed that only through publicity could more people become interested in witchcraft, so preventing the \"Old Religion\", as he called it, from dying out.\n\nIn 1960, Gardner's official biography, entitled \"Gerald Gardner: Witch\", was published. It was written by a friend of his, the Sufi mystic Idries Shah, but used the name of one of Gardner's High Priests, Jack L. Bracelin, because Shah was wary about being associated with Witchcraft. In May of that year, Gardner travelled to Buckingham Palace, where he enjoyed a garden party in recognition of his years of service to the Empire in the Far East. Soon after his trip, Gardner's wife Donna died, and Gardner himself once again began to suffer badly from asthma. The following year he, along with Shah and Lois Bourne, travelled to the island of Majorca to holiday with the poet Robert Graves, whose \"The White Goddess\" would play a significant part in the burgeoning Wiccan religion. In 1963, Gardner decided to go to Lebanon over the winter. Whilst returning home on the ship, \"The Scottish Prince\" on 12 February 1964, he suffered a fatal heart attack at the breakfast table. He was buried in Tunisia, the ship's next port of call, and his funeral was attended only by the ship's captain. He was 79 years old.\n\nThough having bequeathed the museum, all his artifacts, and the copyright to his books in his will to one of his High Priestesses, Monique Wilson, she and her husband sold off the artefact collection to the American Ripley's Believe It or Not! organisation several years later. Ripley's took the collection to America, where it was displayed in two museums before being sold off during the 1980s. Gardner had also left parts of his inheritance to Patricia Crowther, Doreen Valiente, Lois Bourne and Jack Bracelin, the latter inheriting the Fiveacres Nudist Club and taking over as full-time High Priest of the Bricket Wood coven.\n\nSeveral years after Gardner's death, the Wiccan High Priestess Eleanor Bone visited North Africa and went looking for Gardner's grave. She discovered that the cemetery he was interred in was to be redeveloped, and so she raised enough money for his body to be moved to another cemetery in Tunis, where it currently remains. In 2007, a new plaque was attached to his grave, describing him as being \"Father of Modern Wicca. Beloved of the Great Goddess\".\n\nGardner only married once, to Donna, and several who knew him made the claim that he was devoted to her. Indeed, after her death in 1960, he began to again suffer serious asthma attacks. Despite this, as many coven members slept over at his cottage due to living too far away to travel home safely, he was known to cuddle up to his young High Priestess, Dayonis, after rituals. The author Philip Heselton, who largely researched Wicca's origins, came to the conclusion that Gardner had held a long-term affair with Dafo, a theory expanded upon by Adrian Bott. Those who knew him within the modern witchcraft movement recalled how he was a firm believer in the therapeutic benefits of sunbathing. He also had several tattoos on his body, depicting magical symbols such as a snake, dragon, anchor and dagger. In his later life he wore a \"heavy bronze bracelet... denoting the three degrees... of witchcraft\" as well as a \"large silver ring with... signs on it, which... represented his witch-name 'Scire', in the letters of the magical Theban alphabet.\"\n\nAccording to Bricket Wood coven member Frederic Lamond, Gardner also used to comb his beard into a narrow barbiche and his hair into two horn like peaks, giving him \"a somewhat demonic appearance\". Lamond thought that Gardner was \"surprisingly lacking in charisma\" for someone at the forefront of a religious movement.\n\nGardner was a supporter of the right wing Conservative Party, and for several years had been a member of the Highcliffe Conservative Association, as well as being an avid reader of the pro-Conservative newspaper, \"The Daily Telegraph\".\n\nIn a 1951 interview with a journalist from the \"Sunday Pictorial\" newspaper, Gardner said he was a doctor of philosophy from Singapore and also to have a doctorate in literature from Toulouse. Later investigation by Doreen Valiente suggested that these claims were false. The University of Singapore did not exist at that time and the University of Toulouse had no record of his receiving a doctorate. Valiente suggests that these claims may have been a form of compensation for his lack of formal education.\n\nValiente further criticises Gardner for his publicity-seeking – or at least his indiscretion. After a series of tabloid exposés, some members of his coven proposed some rules limiting what members of the Craft should say to non-members. Valiente reports that Gardner responded with a set of Wiccan laws of his own, which he claimed were original but others suspected he had made up on the spot. This led to a split in the coven, with Valiente and others leaving.\n\nCommenting on Gardner, Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White commented that \"There are few figures in esoteric history who can rival him for\nhis dominating place in the pantheon of Pagan pioneers.\"\n\nIn 2012, Philip Heselton published a two-volume biography of Gardner, titled \"Witchfather\". The biography was reviewed by Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White in \"The Pomegranate\" journal, where he commented that it was \"more exhaustive with greater detail\" than Heselton's prior tomes and was \"excellent in most respects\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40412388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40412388", "title": "Gus (polar bear)", "text": "Gus (polar bear)\n\nGus (1985–2013) was a polar bear and icon of the Central Park Zoo in New York City. His exhibit was visited by over 20 million people during his lifetime. He came to public notice in the 1990s, when he began swimming obsessively in his pool for up to 12 hours a day. Reporters dubbed him \"neurotic\", \"depressed\", \"flaky\", and \"bipolar\", turning him into a \"symbol of the stress of living in New York City\". As part of his therapy and treatment, Gus was the first zoo animal in history to be treated with Prozac.\n\nGus was born in the Toledo Zoo in 1985. His father, Nanook, was sent to the Toledo Zoo from his home in the Bronx Zoo for the purposes of breeding. Gus' mother was named Snowball. In 1988, Gus was moved to the Central Park Zoo.\n\nIn the 1990s, Gus became the \"face\" of the Central Park Zoo for several media promotions and publications. Gus was seen by an estimated 20 million visitors in his lifetime.\n\nIn 1994 zoo officials began noting Gus' unusual behavior in his habitat. He was seen swimming back and forth in a figure eight pattern, again and again, for up to 12 hours a day. Such behavior in captive animals usually points to boredom and stress. The zoo hired an animal behavioral therapist at a cost of $25,000 to determine the reason for Gus' obsessive swimming. According to the therapist, \"Gus is just bored and mildly crazy in the way that a lot of people are in New York\". He ordered an \"enrichment program\" for the polar bear that included a redesigned habitat, \"challenges\" at mealtime, new toys and \"positive-reinforcement training sessions\". In 2002 the BBC reported that zookeepers had installed a jacuzzi to \"cheer up\" Gus. Gus was also the first zoo animal in history to be treated with Prozac. After a few months, Gus' obsessive swimming tapered off, but never disappeared entirely. He and his two partners, Lily and Ida, were featured at the 2005 International Conference on Environmental Enrichment.\n\nFrom the publicity surrounding his diagnosis and treatment, Gus became a symbol of the \"neurotic\" New Yorker. He was the subject of a 1995 satirical book, \"What's Worrying Gus?: The True Story of a Big-City Bear\", which publishers described as a \"timeless tale of the quintessential outsider coping with the harsh reality of New York in the '90s\". The cover image depicts Gus in a therapist’s office. He was \nalso the subject of two children's books, \"Gus the Bear, the Flying Cat, and the Lovesick Moose: Twenty Real Life Animal Stories\" (1995) and \"Gus: The Feeling-Better Polar Bear\" (2009), a play titled \"Gus\" and the song \"Gus: The Polar Bear From Central Park\" on the 2004 album \"In Between Evolution\" by The Tragically Hip.\n\nGus’ partners were Lily, a female polar bear who died in 2004 at age 17, and Ida, who died in 2011 at age 25 of liver disease. He had no offspring.\n\nAccording to zoo officials, Gus had exhibited signs of depression since the death of his last partner, Ida, in 2011. In the summer of 2013 he had poor appetite and difficulty chewing and swallowing food. He was placed under anesthesia by zoo veterinarians to determine the cause of his problem; the veterinarians discovered a large, inoperable tumor in the region of his thyroid and decided to euthanize him. At age 27, Gus had far exceeded the life expectancy of polar bears in captivity, which averages 20.7 years.\n"}
{"id": "42734486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42734486", "title": "Insect euthanasia", "text": "Insect euthanasia\n\nInsect euthanasia is the process of killing insects \"in a way that minimizes or eliminates pain and distress.\" It may apply to animals in the laboratory, schools, as pets, as food, or otherwise.\n\nEuthanasia of insects and other invertebrates has historically received limited attention. While vertebrate animal experimentation typically requires approval by an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee in the United States, use of invertebrate animals has few guidelines, and many research papers make no mention of how their invertebrate subjects were killed.\n\nMany of the euthanasia methods developed for vertebrates do not transfer well to invertebrates. While a number of euthanasia methods have been proposed for various invertebrate taxa, many have not been adequately vetted, and more research is needed.\n\nScientists debate the existence and extent of pain in invertebrates, including insects.\n\nVincent Wigglesworth suggests giving insects the benefit of the doubt, in case they can suffer. Cornelia Gunkel and Gregory A. Lewbart suggest that \"Until the question of pain in invertebrates is clearly answered, an analgesic should be given to any animal that is subjected to a painful procedure.\" Jeffrey A. Lockwood agrees:\n\nIf we use anesthetic and it turns out that insects don’t experience pain, the material cost of our mistake is very low [...]. However, if we don’t use anesthetic and it turns out that the insects were in agony, then the moral cost of our mistake is quite high.\n\nAVMA guidelines echo this perspective:\n\nWhile there is ongoing debate about invertebrates’ abilities to perceive pain or otherwise experience compromised welfare, the Guidelines assume that a conservative and humane approach to the care of any creature is warranted and expected by society. Consequently, euthanasia methods should be used that minimize the potential for pain or distress.\n\nPentobarbital is an anesthetic drug used in medicine, human euthanasia, and capital punishment. AVMA recommends overdose of pentobarbital or similar drugs as a method of invertebrate euthanasia. The dose can be chosen at comparable levels as those given to poikilotherm vertebrates, adjusted proportionally to the animal's weight. Injection into hemolymph is ideal, but for invertebrates that have an open circulatory system, \"an intracoelomic injection\" may be required rather than injection into blood vessels. It may help to premedicate the animal with another injected or inhaled drug.\n\nVerifying an insect's death from chemical injections is difficult, so it's often recommended to follow up anesthetic overdose with physical destruction. Note that since insects have different nervous systems from vertebrates, decapitation alone may not always be sufficient to destroy neural function.\n\nProfessor Peer Zwart has observed that commercial pentobarbital may have a pH between 9.5 and 11.0, which can coagulate the protein of snail hemocele. This might be painful to a live organism.\n\nPotassium chloride (KCl) is one of the three drugs typically used in lethal injection in the United States. It causes hyperkalemia, which stops the heart by inducing depolarization of cellular membrane potentials. Intravenous KCl injection is unacceptable for vertebrate animals unless they have been rendered unconscious by other means.\n\n\"Development on American lobster\":\n\nAndrea Battison and colleagues proposed KCl for euthanasia of the American lobster. The researchers injected KCl solution in order to fill with potassium ions (K) the hemolymph sinus that holds the lobster's ventral nerve cord and the region around its supraesophageal ganglion. In normal circumstances, neurons maintain a negative membrane potential and have a high intracellular K concentration. When KCl is injected into hemolymph, extracellular K increases and begins to enter the neurons to restore equilibrium. This depolarizes the neurons and generates an action potential. Subsequent repolarization is blocked by the high intracellular K, so the nervous system fails, and transmission of adverse sensory information is prevented. The potassium then triggers cardiac arrest within 40–90 seconds, in both warm and cold environments.\n\nWhile intravenous KCl is not humane for vertebrates, the researchers in this study assume that in lobsters \"disruption of the CNS, its ability to process and transmit sensory input, and loss of any awareness would be almost immediate\" because the injection directly targets the lobster's \"brain.\" KCl injection produced immediate extension of claws and legs due to deactivation of motor neurons, and the researchers assume that sensory neurons degraded in a similar fashion.\n\nThe lethal dose for this procedure was rather high: 1 g KCl per 1 kg of body weight. This was 10-30 times more than the required dose for intravenous mammalian killing with KCl, and it may reflect the lobster's resilient physiology. Tissues were well preserved, except for myofiber damage at the injection site, which means this technique is generally suitable for histology research.\n\n\"Extension to terrestrial arthropods\":\n\nNeil A. C. Bennie and colleagues extended the technique of Battison et al. to arthropods like \"Blaberus giganteus\", \"Gryllus bimaculatus\", and \"Locusta migratoria\". They produced a table of suggested injection sites and doses for ten orders of arthropods. The researchers propose the name \"targeted hyperkalosis\" to describe the procedure of injecting a large dose of K to the thoracic ganglia. Advantages of this approach are that KCl is cheap, safe, doesn't need special storage, and preserves specimens for most research use cases except those that look at the neural culture itself. That said, the method is hard to use for small insects like \"Drosophila\" sp.\n\nThe recommended dose is 10% v/w 300 mg/ml KCl injected between the first pair of legs for Blattodea, Phasmida, Orthoptera, Mantodea, Coleoptera, and Diptera.\n\nOverdose on inhaled anesthetics can work for terrestrial invertebrates like insects, but verifying death can be difficult, so it's advised to use another euthanasia method alongside them. Isoflurane and sevoflurane are examples of volatile anaesthetics that can be used; afterward, the insects should be mechanically destroyed such as by crushing. Systems have been developed to provide vaporized anesthetic in the minimal required amounts in order to make anesthesia more cost-effective.\n\nPithing requires sufficient anatomical experience with the relevant species. It is not humane on its own and should be preceded by other means of anaesthesia.\n\nChemicals like alcohol and formalin can destroy nervous tissue but are not humane by themselves and should be preceded by other means of anaesthesia. Ethyl Acetate (EtOAC) or Sodium Cyanide (NaCN) are and were commonly used field chemicals in conjunction with a kill jar for collecting insect specimens by many entomologists.\n\nFreezing is sometimes suggested as a method of insect euthanasia. Other contend that freezing is not humane on its own but should be preceded by other means of anaesthesia. Cold by itself doesn't produce analgesia. Romain Pizzi suggests that freezing, while common in \"hobbyist literature,\" is not humane for spiders.\n\nThe British and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums (BIAZA) Terrestrial Invertebrate Working Group (TIWG) reports on a survey conducted by Mark Bushell of BIAZA institutions. He found that refrigeration and freezing were the most common methods \"of euthanasia of invertebrates although research has suggested that this is probably one of the least ethical options.\" That said, freezing is a worst-case method if chemical or instantaneous physical destruction is not possible.\n\nInsects put in an ordinary freezer may require a day or more to be killed.\n\nCarbon dioxide is sometimes used for terrestrial invertebrates, including insects. However, its effectiveness is not known. It has been reported to cause convulsions and excited behavior, perhaps suggesting animal discomfort. It is not believed to induce analgesia.\n\nJohn E. Cooper writes: \"If a procedure is considered to be potentially painful, there may be merit in using isoflurane, halothane, or sevoflurane rather than because the extent to which the latter induces analgesia in invertebrates is not known, and its use in vertebrate animals is controversial because of concerns about its effects on the animals' health and welfare.\"\n\nSome insect farmers believe that mechanical shredding is the least painful way to kill insects suitable for human consumption. Freezing is also commonly used for commercial entomophagy operations, though as discussed above, there is debate over whether freezing is fully humane.\n\nMany insects eaten by humans are roasted, fried, boiled, or otherwise heated directly, without any effort made at euthanasia. Many pets eat live insects, which cannot be euthanized.\n\n"}
{"id": "43583408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43583408", "title": "James Davis (Australian politician)", "text": "James Davis (Australian politician)\n\nJames Davis (c.1811 – 26 October 1859) was a pastoralist and politician in colonial Victoria, a member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly.\n\nDavis was a pastoralist at \"Woodside Creek\" in Gippsland from 1847 to 1859, and \"The Meadows\" at Merriman's Creek from 1847 to 1850. Davis married Louisa Frances Harrison (a daughter of Peter Degraves) on 22 April 1837. \nIn November 1856, Davis was elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly for Alberton, a position he held until August 1859.\n\nDavis and his family left Hobson's Bay (Melbourne) on 25 August 1859 aboard the \"Royal Charter\" bound for Liverpool. Davis died in the wreck of the \"Royal Charter\" along with his wife on 26 October 1859 off Anglesey, Wales.\n"}
{"id": "1136916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1136916", "title": "Jeff Chandler", "text": "Jeff Chandler\n\nJeff Chandler (born Ira Grossel; December 15, 1918 – June 17, 1961) was an American actor, film producer and singer best remembered for playing Cochise in \"Broken Arrow\" (1950), for which he was Oscar nominated. He was one of Universal Pictures's most popular male stars of the 1950s, his best known other credits including \"Sword in the Desert\" (1948), \"Deported\" (1950), \"Female on the Beach\" (1955) and \"Away All Boats\" (1956). In addition to his acting, he was known for his good looks, his distinguished gray hair, and for his musical recordings.\n\nChandler was born Ira Grossel to a Jewish family in the Brooklyn borough of New York City, the only child of Anna (née Herman) and Phillip Grossel. He was raised by his mother after his parents separated when he was a child.\n\nHe attended Erasmus Hall High School, the alma mater of many stage and film personalities, where he acted in school plays; his schoolmates included Susan Hayward. Chandler's father was connected with the restaurant business and got his son a job as a restaurant cashier. Chandler said he always wanted to act, but courses for commercial art were cheaper, so he studied art for a year and worked as a layout artist for a mail order catalogue at $18 a week.\n\nEventually he saved up enough money to take a drama course at the Feagin School of Dramatic Art in New York. He worked briefly in radio, then got a job in a stock company on Long Island as an actor and stage manager. He worked for two years in stock companies, including a performance of \"The Trojan Horse\" opposite the famous singers and actors Gordon MacRae and his wife Sheila MacRae, who became his good friends.\n\nChandler formed his own company, the Shady Lane Playhouse, in Illinois in the summer of 1941. This toured the Midwest with some success, presenting such plays as \"The Bad Man\", \"Seventh Heaven\", \"The New Minister\" and \"Pigs\". When America entered World War Two Chandler enlisted in the army. He served for four years, mostly in the Aleutians, finishing with the rank of lieutenant.\n\nAfter being discharged from the Army, Chandler moved to Los Angeles in December 1945 with $3,000 he had saved. Shortly after his arrival he was involved in a serious car accident on the way to a screen test, which resulted in a large scar on his forehead.\n\nChandler initially struggled to find work in Hollywood and had spent all his savings when he got his first job as a radio actor in May 1946. He went on to appear in episodes of anthology drama series such as \"Escape\" and \"Academy Award Theater\", and became well known for playing the lead in \"Michael Shayne\". Chandler was the first actor to portray Chad Remington in \"Frontier Town\".\n\nChandler had appeared on air in \"Rogue's Gallery\" with Dick Powell, who was impressed by the actor and put pressure on Columbia to give Chandler his first film role, a one-line part as a gangster in \"Johnny O'Clock\" (1947). He tested for Columbia's \"The Loves of Carmen\" and did not get it but went on to play small roles as gangsters in \"Roses are Red\" and \"The Invisible Wall\", and a policeman in \"Mr Belvedere Goes to College\". He received more attention playing Eve Arden's boyfriend on radio in \"Our Miss Brooks\", which debuted in July 1948 and became a massive hit.\n\nChandler's performance in \"Our Miss Brooks\" brought him to the attention of executives at Universal, who were looking for someone to play an Israeli leader in \"Sword in the Desert\" (1948). He was cast in February 1949. Chandler impressed studio executives so much with his work that shortly into filming Universal signed him to a seven-year contract. His first movie under the arrangement was a supporting role in \"Abandoned\" (1949).\nWriter-director Delmer Daves was looking for an actor to play Cochise in a Western, \"Broken Arrow\" (1950), over at 20th Century Fox. The part was proving tricky to cast; in Chandler's words, \"Fox were looking for a guy big enough physically to play the role and unfamiliar enough to moviegoers to lend authenticity. Chandler's performance as a similar resistance-leader-type in \"Sword of the Desert\" brought him to the studio's attention and he was borrowed from Universal for the role in May 1949. As part of the arrangement Chandler signed a deal with Fox to make a movie a year with them for six years. He also had to be written out of his radio shows \"Michael Shayne\" and \"Our Miss Brooks\" for several weeks.\n\n\"Broken Arrow\" turned out to be a considerable hit, earning Chandler an Oscar nomination and establishing him as a star. He was the first actor nominated for an Academy Award for portraying an American Indian.\n\nEven before \"Broken Arrow\" was released, Chandler was upped to leading man status back at Universal. He was meant to make \"Death on a Sidestreet\" and \"The Lady Count\" but neither ended up being made. Instead he took over a role originally meant for Dana Andrews, a Lucky Luciano-style gangster in \"Deported\", for producer Robert Buckner, who cast him in \"Sword in the Desert\". \"I don't know why I got it,\" Chandler joked at the time, \"maybe it's because I'm saving them money.\" The movie was shot on location in Italy, although Chandler's radio commitments meant some of it had to be filmed in Hollywood.\n\nIt was back to Fox for his second film for them, as an embittered Union cavalryman in \"Two Flags West\" for director Robert Wise. Chandler replaced Lee J. Cobb and it was one of his least typical roles, a character part rather than a leading man. Once again, location work required him to regularly commute back and forth to Hollywood throughout the shoot.\n\nReturning to Universal, Chandler played an adventurer in \"Smuggler's Island\", a role he liked because he said was close to his real personality. However Hollywood tended to cast him in different nationalities. According to one profile, \"he has unusual face, with taut, bony features which seem to fit neatly into any sort of role.\"\n\nHe was reunited with Fox and Delmer Daves to play a Polynesian chief in \"Bird of Paradise\" (1951), which Chandler admitted was a variation of his performance as Cochise. It would be the last film he made outside Universal for a number of years.\n\nBack at Universal, he played a boxer in \"Iron Man\" (1951), a remake of an old Lew Ayres movie. He was announced for another film with Buckner, \"The Wild Bunch\", which wasn't made; instead he played an Arab chief in \"Flame of Araby\" (1951), opposite Maureen O'Hara.\n\nAround this time Chandler expressed his dissatisfaction with acting in film as opposed to radio:\n\n[Radio actors] have to make their roles come alive, and they only have their voices with which to do it. But in pictures the technique is quite different. The actor is only a small part of the performance. He lends his intelligence and personality to the role, but the greatest part of the performance belongs to the producer, who puts him in a certain type of part; the director, who tells him how to play it; and the cutter, who edits what's done. That's why I find being a movie actor not particularly gratifying. I want to eventually branch off into writing and directing.\n\nChandler reprised his role as Cochise in another Western, \"The Battle at Apache Pass\", for Universal. He then went on to make a war film, \"Red Ball Express\", and a swashbuckler, \"Yankee Buccaneer\". He made a cameo in \"Meet Danny Wilson\" and had a change of pace when he supported Loretta Young in \"Because of You\" - which a few years later he called his favorite role. Young later said Chandler \"was more of a personality than an actor... a charming man.\"\n\nIn 1952 exhibitors voted Chandler the 22nd most popular star in the US. 20th Century-Fox was keen to use Chandler again and offered him roles in \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\", \"Lydia Bailey\", \"Les Misérables\" and \"The Secret of Convict Lake\". However, Universal refused to loan him out as he was now one of their biggest stars.\n\n\"Our Miss Brooks\" transferred to television but Chandler was not permitted to do TV under his contract; his part was taken by Robert Rockwell. On Peggy Lee's radio show he had demonstrated a talent for singing and he pursued this through the decade.\n\nIn July 1952 Chandler signed a fresh contract with Universal which doubled his salary. His first movie under this was a Western, \"The Great Sioux Uprising\". It was followed by more adventure fare: \"East of Sumatra\" and \"War Arrow\" with Maureen O'Hara.\n\nThis meant Chandler missed out on the part of Demetrius in \"The Robe\" (1953) at Fox, for which he had been considered and which eventually went to Victor Mature. He also missed out on the lead in the remake of \"Magnificent Obsession\", for which he had been mooted; the part was taken by Rock Hudson who had supported Chandler in \"Iron Man\". Both \"The Robe\" and \"Magnificent Obsession\" became big hits. Chandler played Cochise for the third time, a cameo in \"Taza, Son of Cochise\", starring Hudson, who soon overtook Chandler as Universal's biggest male star.\n\nUniversal announced him for \"Chief Crazy Horse\" but the role ended up being played by Victor Mature. Instead he appeared in \"Yankee Pasha\" and started singing in nightclubs. He left the radio show \"Our Miss Brooks\" after five years \"to get a rest,\" he said. \"Although it didn't take long to do the show, it tied up all my Sundays\".\n\nChandler appeared in an expensive (for Universal) epic, playing the Emperor Marcian in \"Sign of the Pagan\" and co-starred against Jane Russell in \"Foxfire\" (1955) which he enjoyed because \"I don't have to be so darned monosyllabic in this one.\" He then made \"Female on the Beach\" with Joan Crawford and began releasing records.\n\nIn 1954 Chandler was starting to gripe about his workload:\n\nYou just can't call your time your own. When you're trekking the country - as I am now for my Decca records \"I Should Care\" and \"More Than Anyone\" and for Universal International, my home studio - every hour of the day, from the morning disc jockeys to the midnight program is filled. And in Hollywood, if you're not working on a picture or getting ready for one, you have to keep studying. I make a point of answering all my mail and when anyone asks me for an autograph I'm not just flattered. I see that as the least I can do for the people who have given me the fruits of this world.\n\nIn May Chandler refused to play the lead in \"Six Bridges to Cross\" and Universal put him on suspension. He was replaced in the role by George Nader. Chandler spoke of making \"Young Moses\" and a Western with friends Tony Curtis and Janet Leigh, but neither was made. He announced \"being a movie star isn't worth it\", complaining that:\n\nI can't go anywhere as an ordinary individual. There was a time I could walk around Times Square in New York (my home town) and look into shop windows or go into a cafe and eat in peace. But no more. I can't go anywhere unnoticed. Movie fans seem to think that actors belong to them but we like to feel we belong to ourselves. Don't get me wrong - I wanted fame and money when I decided to take up acting. I like being recognized - it's flattering. But there's always one character who spoils anything... I walk into a restaurant and get a ringside table- but you remember I also have to leave the biggest tip. If I don't, I'm labeled the tightest guy in town. And let's face it, acting is the easiest way I know to make a buck. But I think I'm a fairly bright boy - I figure I could have made as much in some other business... Anyone in the world with imagination and initiative can become a success. Me? I like to push buttons. I was born to be an executive - an idea man. An executive is a guy who thinks things up and has other people execute them. I'd quit work immediately if I had the money, and travel for a while. I'd like to do some writing. I marked two radio scripts and have finished synopses and five movie stories.\n\nChandler made up with Universal who cast him in \"Lady Godiva of Coventry\". Chandler refused the role and was replaced again by George Nader. However this time the dispute was not over money but due to Chandler's over work.\n\nUniversal cast Chandler in an expensive remake of \"The Spoilers\", then was given the lead in one of the studio's most prestigious films of the year, \"Away All Boats\".\n\nIn May Chandler performed at the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas. The \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that Chandler \"is proving remarkable in performing singing duty, even though he is not exactly a singing type.\"\nHe made a Western, \"Pillars of the Sky\", then had a change of pace with the comedy \"The Toy Tiger\", the fourth movie he made that year. Louella Parsons called Chandler \"the busiest actor in town... Jeff is so happy in his private life these days that he's doing everything the studio wants.\"\n\nTowards the end of the year, Chandler formed his own production company, Earlmar, with his agent, Meyer Mishkin. This was to take effect from August 1956 onwards, when Chandler's exclusive contract with Universal expired. However Chandler intended to continue to make films for Universal under a multi-picture contract. He was voted the seventh most popular star with British cinema goers.\n\nIn 1956, Universal gave Chandler a leave of absence from his contract with them \"for a period of several months\" to enable him to make his own movie for Earlmar. In exchange for this, Chandler was to make two more films for Universal under his original contract with them, then enter into a new arrangement under which he would appear in two films a year over three years.\n\nEarlmar signed a six-picture deal with United Artists, under which Chandler was to appear in at least three of the films. He acted in and produced the first Earlmar production, a Western, \"Drango\". \"It's no Indian story,\" said Chandler, \"let Cochise rest in peace.\" Chandler bought the rights to a novel, \"Lincoln McEever\" but it was never made; \"Drango\" would turn out to be Earlmar's sole production.\n\nAfter \"Drango\" Chandler made the final two films owing under his original contract with Universal: \"The Tattered Dress\", playing a lawyer in a melodrama, and \"Man in the Shadow\", co-starring opposite Orson Welles. He had commitments to make two films a year at Universal until 1959.\n\nChandler then moved over to Columbia and acted with Kim Novak in \"Jeanne Eagels\", a popular \"biopic\".\n\nHe followed this with two films for Universal, \"The Lady Takes a Flyer\", with Lana Turner and \"Raw Wind in Eden\", with Esther Williams. A Motion Picture Exhibitor Poll listed him as the tenth most popular male star in the US in 1957.\n\nChandler made another for Universal, \"A Stranger in My Arms\" with June Allyson. He was allegedly due to star in \"Operation Petticoat\" (1959) but fell ill and had to pull out.\n\nChandler's next two movies were made for a brand new company, Seven Arts: \"Ten Seconds to Hell\", a bomb disposal drama shot in Germany with Jack Palance for director Robert Aldrich, and \"Thunder in the Sun\", a Western with Susan Hayward.\n\nThe last of those was distributed by Paramount, who also released Chandler's next film, another Western, \"The Jayhawkers\". In \"Ten Seconds to Hell\" and \"The Jayhawkers\" Chandler played villains. He later reflected \"I've tried heavies - but audiences didn't seem to take to that.\"\n\nChandler formed another production company, August, for which he made \"The Plunderers\", a Western, distributed by Allied Artists. Allied was so pleased with the film they requested three more movies from August, but Chandler never got to make them.\n\nHis next film, \"The Story of David\", was filmed for American TV - his first work in that medium - but shown theatrically in other countries. It was shot in London and Israel. Chandler stated:\n\nI don't want to make pictures in other countries; I want to stay home. But suddenly there are not enough pictures being made here. All other countries are giving inducements to companies and to players; even a little country like Israel is trying to formulate a plan for subsidies. Our government still taxes the hell out of people; somebody ought to wake 'em up.\n\nChandler appeared in \"Return to Peyton Place\" for Fox. He then went over to Warner Bros to make \"Merrill's Marauders\", which would be his last film.\n\nChandler married actress Marjorie Hoshelle (1918–1989) in 1946. The couple had two daughters, Jamie Tucker (1947–2003) and Dana Grossel (1949–2002). They separated in 1951 and 1954, actually divorcing in 1954. His wife complained that Chandler was \"chronically fatigued so that he would fall asleep wherever we were.\" However they reconciled a few months later. In 1957 he had an affair with Esther Williams while making a movie together and his wife filed for divorce at the end of the year.\n\nIn his 1958 divorce proceedings it was revealed Chandler was paying his wife an allowance of $1,500 a month. He said he was under contract to Universal to make two films a year, at $60,000 a film for 1957 and $75,000 a film for 1958. He said he earned $250,000 in 1957 from his acting and singing but had a lot of expenses, with his personal manager, business manager and agent taking 25% of his income. The court ordered Chandler to continue paying $1,500 a month. Their divorce was granted in June 1959, with Chandler giving his wife $100,000 and over $2,166 a month in alimony plus $500 a month in child support. \"He became so absorbed by his career that he spent all time when not actually working on a picture in his business office,\" said his wife. \"I developed an ulcer.\" \n\nChandler was also involved in a will dispute concerning his stepfather in 1960.\n\nChandler was a cousin of Billy Jack actor David Roya, who played the young villain Bernard Posner.\n\nWhen his friend Sammy Davis, Jr. lost an eye in an accident and was in danger of losing the other, Chandler offered to give Davis one of his own eyes. Chandler himself had nearly lost an eye and had been visibly scarred in an auto accident years earlier.\n\nChandler had a relationship with Gloria De Haven that was exposed in \"Confidential\" Magazine. At a trial, Fred Otash said the detectives had followed them to get the story.\n\nHe was linked with Esther Williams, who claimed in her 1999 autobiography Chandler was a cross dresser and she broke off the relationship. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\", many friends and colleagues of Chandler's rejected Williams' claims. Jane Russell commented, \"I've never heard of such a thing. Cross-dressing is the last thing I would expect of Jeff. He was a sweet guy, definitely all man.\"\n\nHe was also linked with Ann Sheridan.\n\nChandler's public support for Israel's 1956 attack on Egypt during the Suez Crisis, prompted the United Arab Republic to ban his films in Arab countries in 1960. Chandler was an active Democrat.\n\nHe represented the Screen Actors Guild during talks throughout the 1960 actors strike.\n\nWhile working on \"Merrill's Marauders\" in the Philippines, on April 15, 1961, Chandler injured his back while playing baseball with U.S. Army Special Forces soldiers who served as extras in the film. He had injections to deaden the pain and enable him to finish the production.\n\nOn May 13, 1961, he entered a Culver City hospital and had surgery for a spinal disc herniation. There were severe complications; an artery was damaged and Chandler hemorrhaged. On May 17, in a seven-and-a-half-hour emergency operation over-and-above the original surgery, he was given 55 pints of blood. A third operation followed, on May 27, where he received an additional 20 pints of blood. He died on June 17, 1961. The cause was a blood infection complicated by pneumonia.\n\nAt the time of his death, Chandler was involved with British actress Barbara Shelley. Tony Curtis and Gerald Mohr were among the pallbearers at Chandler's funeral, which was attended by more than 1,500 people. He was buried at Hillside Memorial Park Cemetery in Culver City.\n\nAn investigation ensued into Chandler's death. It was deemed malpractice and resulted in his children suing the hospital for $1.5 million.\n\nChandler's own estate was worth $600,000, which he left to his daughters. His ex-wife sued his estate for $80,000 in money owing under their divorce settlement.\n\nFor his contribution to the motion picture industry, Chandler has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, at 1770 Vine Street.\n\nFilm historian David Shipman once wrote this analysis of Chandler:\n\nAn obituary of Chandler said\n\nThe famed animated action-adventure series Jonny Quest's handsome, white-haired, veteran special agent bodyguard Race Bannon's design was modeled after Jeff Chandler.\n\n\n\n\nChandler had a concurrent career as a singer and recording artist, releasing several albums and playing nightclubs. In 1955 he became only the second star to play at the Riviera, after Liberace was the featured headliner. In her autobiography \"Hold the Roses\" (2002), Rose Marie wrote that \"Jeff Chandler was a great guy, but he was no singer. He put together an act and we opened at the Riviera. He came with a conductor, piano player, light man, press agent, and manager. None of it helped, and everybody raved about Jeff's singing, but let's face it: He really didn't sing very well. He definitely had guts to open in Vegas\". He left to work on a movie after three and a half weeks.\n\n\nFor a number of years, film exhibitors voted Chandler among the top stars at the box office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35911375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35911375", "title": "Jules Greenbaum", "text": "Jules Greenbaum\n\nJules Greenbaum (5 January 1867 – 1 November 1924) was a German pioneering film producer. He founded the production companies Deutsche Bioscope, Deutsche Vitascope and Greenbaum-Film and was a dominant figure in German cinema in the years before the First World War. He is also known for his early experiments with sound films around twenty years before the success of \"The Jazz Singer\" made them a more established feature of cinema.\n\nGreenbaum was born in Berlin in 1867 as Julius Grünbaum. He married Emma Karstein in c1887 and moved to Chicago in the United States, where his first son Georg was born 1 November 1889. He originally worked in the textile industry, but on his return to Berlin in 1895 aged around 42 Greenbaum moved into the newly established film business and founded Deutsche Bioscope () in 1899. Greenbaum acquired a camera in Amsterdam, and a cameraman, Georg Furkel. Furkel worked as his technical director until 1912, along with another Dutch cameraman, Martin Knoop.\n\nDeutsche Bioscope's first independent film was the 60-metre 1899 newsreel picture \"Spring Parade\" featuring German Kaiser Wilhelm II. His firm released more newsreels in 1901/02, importing American and French features and manufacturing cinema equipment.\n\nDeutsche Bioscope GmbH, Berlin, was incorporated on 18 June 1902 with a capital of 20,000 marks The main offices were at 131d Friedrichstraße, where the firm supplied equipment (including the American Biograph camera), and an 8-hour guaranteed film copying service.\nBioscope's cameramen were sent to Vienna, Munich, Leipzig, Halle, Nuremberg, Kiel, Hamburg, Poznan, Lviv and Riga in search of vaudeville/variety acts to film.\n\nStudios at 123 Chausseestraße\nBioscope built new offices in 1906 at 123 Chausseestraße, in the east of Berlin; a glasshouse studio was erected in the large courtyard at the rear of the Jugendstil building, where Continental-Kunstfilm would later film \"In Nacht und Eis\" in 1912. \n\nVitascope-Theater\n\nGreenbaum began acquiring cinemas, opening a Vitascope cinema at 10 Friedrichstraße, and in March 1907 he registered Vitascope Theater GmbH as a limited company. Its partners were Louis Rosenfeld and Otto Heinemann. This established a vertically integrated network with Vitascope handling the distribution for Bioscope films.\n\nSale of Deutsche Bioscope\n\nAs his business increased, Greenbaum made a deal with the chemist Carl Moritz Schleussner of the photochemicals firm Schleussner AG in Frankfurt/Main. Carl Schleussner had been involved since 1896 in producing negative film stock for Röntgen photography soon after its discovery. In February 1908 Carl Schleussner bought Deutsche Bioscop as a manufacturing, copying and sales operation, for a 2/3 share of 140,000 marks, with 1/3 provided by Greenbaum and his brother Max. Deutsche Bioscop was re-registered on 27 February 1908, and Schleussner bought out the Greenbaums' remaining share in 1909. Under its new owner, Deutsche Bioscope moved to Babelsberg Studio in November 1911, which is well-known as the oldest large-scale film studio in the world and still today producing famous Blockbusters.\n\nBioscope-Theater\n\nGreenbaum registered a new cinema company, Bioscope-Theater GmbH, on 24 Feb 1908. The directors were Jules' brother, Max Greenbaum (an experienced banker), and Erich Zeiske. In October 1908, Greenbaum opened the Vitascope cinema, a showpiece 500-seat movie theatre on , 1–2 Berliner Straße.\n\nGreenbaum's firm invented and used Synchroscope, which synchronised the visual picture of films with phonograph records to create a working sound and vision system. Greenbaum produced a number of these sound shorts of vocal classical music, and in 1908 entered into contracts to supply the machinery to Carl Laemmle's Movie Service Company in Chicago and to another American, Charles Urban, in Britain.\nCarl Laemmle installed the system in a number of American cinemas, mostly in German-speaking communities. Synchroscope largely petered out because not enough sound films were made to meet demand and because it could only last for two or three reels while the standard length of films was increasingly four or five reels long. Costs had soared by the end of 1908 (the Synchroscope was originally priced at $750 (around $20,000 in 2015); and Schleussner AG bought out Greenbaum's share of Deutsche Bioscope to free up his operations.\n\nOn 8 September 1909 Vitascope-Theater GmbH changed its name to Deutsche Vitascope GmbH, with Greenbaum the owner and managing director, and headquarters at 20 Friedrichstraße. The firm's chief objective was the production of sound pictures on continuous film so that all the reels could be shown without interruptions. The 1910 Vitascope catalogue advertised a flicker-free camera, Vitaphone soundfilms, arc lamps, used original Vitascope films and 100,000 meters of used vaudeville/variety act movies, for 20-40 pfennigs/meter.\nStudios at 32–34 Lindenstraße\n\nIn 1910 Vitascope opened main offices and a film copying facility at 32–34 , with a glasshouse studio on the roof. Greenbaum moved to new recording rooms for sound production at 105 Große Frankfurter Straße, where Vitascope produced short films of about 120 feet (60m) synchronised with phonograph recordings of vocal numbers, opera arias and dance pieces. The sound films were directed by Franz Porten and starred his daughter Henny Porten. One notable film was of \"Mignon\" Act I by Ambroise Thomas with the Royal Court Orchestra & Choir and the Royal Ballet.\n\nGreenbaum also had a 'normal' silent film studio at 94 Markgrafenstraße. Vitascope's first film of 1910 was \"Arsène Lupin contra Sherlock Holmes\" produced and directed by Viggo Larsen who joined in 1909 from Nordisk. Larsen remained with Vitascope for two years, then founded his own company with star Wanda Treumann. Walter Schmidthässler also joined in 1910, working as director and lead actor for Vitascope. In 1911 Max Mack was engaged as scriptwriter, soon debuting as actor and director, with \"Gehirnreflexe\" (Brain Reflex) and three others with Albert Bassermann, notably \"The Other\". \"The Blue Mouse\" showed at the new Marmorhaus cinema.\nStudio at 16 Friedrichstraße\n\nVitascope opened a further studio at Friedrichstraße 16 in 1911; and in October 1912 Greenbaum vacated 123 Chauseestraße and moved everything to 32–34 Lindenstraße (including manufacture, developing and copying equipment). The fine red sandstone building at 123 Chauseestraße was taken over by Walter Schmidthässler and his recently formed Continental-Kunstfilm.\nStudios at 5–7 Franz-Josef-Straße, Weissensee\n\nNeeding to expand even further, Greenbaum acquired land at 5–7 Franz-Josef-Straße (now Max-Liebermann-Straße), Weißensee, and in 1913 built a double glasshouse studio along with the largest film processing lab in the country (capable of an advertised 100,000 meters daily capacity.) Showrooms remained in 32/34 Lindenstraße, and the entire production of films moved to Weissensee on 1 October 1913, along with the manufacturing, drying and copying equipment.\n\nIn January 1914 Greenbaum merged his Vitascope firm with PAGU (Projektions-Aktiengesellschaft 'Union'), owned by his rival Paul Davidson, in order to compete with the larger French studios who were flooding the German market with their films. PAGU combined the resources of 800 employees, with main offices in Zimmerstraße and Lindenstraße, 20 \"Union\" cinemas, glasshouse studios in Tempelhof and in Weissensee, with its duplicating lab. Both companies continued to produce films under their own name and logos. From January 1914 Richard Oswald was artistic and advertising director at Vitascope. Oswald made the \"Baskerville\" detective series.\n\nPathé\n\nStill seeking further distribution outlets, Greenbaum and Davidson closed a deal with Pathé Frères to distribute PAGU films. Pathé bought the Weissensee studios at 5–7 Franz-Josef-Straße in July 1914. However, with the outbreak of the First World War, foreign films were barred from Germany allowing domestic production to boom. Pathé and PAGU broke off relationships; the admin offices and studios belonging to Pathé were placed into receivership, and reverted to Greenbaum.\n\nWeissensee\n\nFreed by the war from the foreign competition, Greenbaum broke with Davidson's PAGU and founded Greenbaum-Film out of Vitascope. On 12 January 1915 Greenbaum-Film was incorporated with 10,000 marks and started production again in 5–7 Franz-Josef-Straße, Weissensee, with office and sales at Friedrichstraße 235. An article in \"Lichtbild-Bühne\" for 3 June 1915 announced: \"Dr. Hans Oberländer, Richard Löwenbein, Richard Oswald, Greenbaum-Film GmbH – the biggest film factory in Germany.\" Oswald made five films in a few months and then separated financially from Greenbaum-Film, becoming a self-employed producer and director.\n\nIn 1916 Greenbaum closed a deal with Albert Bassermann, who starred in seventeen films for Greenbaum-Film by 1920. The director Adolf Gärtner (who worked on Joe May's Stuart Webbs detective series) also moved to Greenbaum-Film and directed nine films in Weißensee. Greenbaum took out a 5-year lease on the Weißensee premises from 4 January 1917 – 1922. In 1919 he leased the double glasshouse studios to Joe May for 600,000 marks, which became known as the May-Atelier.\n\nIn 1919 Greenbaum affiliated with Ufa, which the State had quietly established as the giant of German film industry during the war, but the deal led to a series of legal disputes and the virtual bankruptcy of Greenbaum-Film. Greenbaum had a monopoly contract with Ufa to supply films to Ukraine, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey. Despite the political events in the Balkans, Ufa claimed millions from Greenbaum for lost sales and the dispute escalated through the courts. Ufa's interests were represented by Hemann Fellner, Greenbaum's former business partner.\n\nGreenbaum lost the factory and everything else, and died in 1924 in a mental hospital aged 57. The studios were taken over by Ufa after his death; his two sons George and Mutz managed Greenbaum-Film until it was taken over by Hermann Millakowsky and eventually liquidated in 1932.\n\nDuring his life Greenbaum launched the career of a number of leading German directors and actors including Max Mack, Richard Oswald and Maria Orska. His son Mutz Greenbaum (\"Max Greene\") became a leading cinematographer, whose films include Christopher Columbus (1923 film) starring Albert Bassermann, Thunder Rock (1942) and I'm All Right Jack (1959).\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "68140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68140", "title": "List of life sciences", "text": "List of life sciences\n\nThe life sciences or biological sciences comprise the branches of science that involve the scientific study of life and organisms – such as microorganisms, plants, and animals including human beings. \n\nLife science is one of the two major branches of natural science, the other being physical science, which is concerned with non-living matter. \n\nBy definition, biology is the natural science that studies life and living organisms, with the other life sciences being its sub-disciplines. \n\nSome life sciences focus on a specific type of organism. For example, zoology is the study of animals, while botany is the study of plants. Other life sciences focus on aspects common to all or many life forms, such as anatomy and genetics. Some focus on the micro scale (e.g. molecular biology, biochemistry) other on larger scales (e.g. cytology, immunology, ethology, ecology). Another major, branch of life sciences involves understanding the mindneuroscience.\n\nLife sciences discoveries are helpful in improving the quality and standard of life, and have applications in health, agriculture, medicine, and the pharmaceutical and food science industries.\n\nBiology – burst and eclectic field, composed of many branches and sub-disciplines. However, despite the complexity and the broad scope of the science, there are certain general and unifying concepts within it that govern all study and research, consolidating it into a single, coherent field. Here are some of biology's major branches:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1577150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1577150", "title": "List of women who died in childbirth", "text": "List of women who died in childbirth\n\nThis is a list of notable women, either famous themselves or closely associated with someone well known, who suffered maternal death as defined by the World Health Organization (WHO):\n\nNote that this wording includes abortion, miscarriage, stillbirth, and ectopic pregnancy. Generally, there is a distinction between a direct maternal death that is the result of a complication of the pregnancy, delivery, or management of the two, and an indirect maternal death that is a pregnancy-related death in a woman with a pre-existing or newly developed health problem unrelated to pregnancy. Fatalities during but unrelated to a pregnancy are termed accidental, incidental, or non-obstetrical maternal deaths.\n\nHowever, the WHO definition is only one of many; other definitions may include accidental and incidental causes. Cases with \"incidental causes\" include deaths secondary to violence against women that may be related to the pregnancy and be affected by the socioeconomic and cultural environment. Also, it has been reported that about 10% of maternal deaths may occur late, that is after 42 days after a termination or delivery; thus, some definitions extend the period of observation to one year after the end of gestation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "408579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408579", "title": "Long Duration Exposure Facility", "text": "Long Duration Exposure Facility\n\nNASA's Long Duration Exposure Facility, or LDEF (acronym pronounced \"EL-deaf\"), was a school bus-sized cylindrical facility designed to provide long-term experimental data on the outer space environment and its effects on space systems, materials, operations and selected spores' survival. It was placed in low Earth orbit by in April 1984. The original plan called for the LDEF to be retrieved in March 1985, but after a series of delays it was eventually returned to Earth by in January 1990.\n\nIt successfully carried science and technology experiments for about 5.7 years, that have revealed a broad and detailed collection of space environmental data. LDEF's 69 months in space provided scientific data on the long-term effects of space exposure on materials, components and systems that has benefited NASA spacecraft designers to this day.\n\nResearchers identified the potential of the planned Space Shuttle to deliver a payload to space, leave it there for a long-term exposure to the harsh outer space environment, and on a separate mission retrieve the payload and return it to Earth for analysis. The LDEF concept evolved from a spacecraft proposed by NASA's Langley Research Center in 1970 to study the meteoroid environment, the Meteoroid and Exposure Module (MEM). The project was approved in 1974 and LDEF was built at NASA's Langley Research Center.\n\nLDEF was intended to be reused, and redeployed with new experiments, perhaps every 18 months. but after the unintended extension of mission 1 the structure itself was treated as an experiment and intensively studied before being placed into storage.\n\nThe STS-41-C crew of deployed LDEF on April 7, 1984, into a nearly circular orbit at an altitude of 275 nautical miles.\n\nIts shape was a 12 sided prism (to fit the shuttle orbiter payload bay). There were 5 or 6 experiments on each of the 12 long sides and a few more on the ends. It was designed to fly with one end facing earth and the other away from earth. \nAttitude control of LDEF was achieved with gravity-gradient stabilization and inertial distribution to maintain three-axis stability in orbit. Therefore, propulsion or other attitude control systems were not required, making LDEF free of acceleration forces and contaminants from jet firings. There was also a magnetic/viscous damper to stop any initial oscillation after deployment.\n\nIt had two grapple fixtures. An FRGF and an active (rigidize sensing) grapple used to send an electronic signal to initiate the 19 experiments that had electrical systems. This activated the Experiment Initiate System (EIS) which sent 24 initiation signals to the 20 active experiments. There were six initiation indications which were visible to the deploying astronauts next to the active grapple fixture.\n\nEngineers originally intended that the first mission would last about one year, and that several long-duration exposure missions would use the same frame. The exposure facility was actually used for a single 5.7-year mission.\n\nThe LDEF facility was designed to glean information vital to the development of the Space Station Freedom (that was eventually built as the International Space Station) and other spacecraft, especially the reactions of various space building materials to radiation, extreme temperature changes and collisions with space matter.\n\nSome of the experiments had a cover that opened after deployment and was designed to close after about a year. e.g. Space Environment Effects (M0006)\n\nThere was no telemetry but some active experiments recorded data on a magnetic tape recorder (which was powered by a lithium sulfur dioxide battery). e.g. The Advanced Photovoltaic Experiment (S0014) (recorded data once a day), the German Solar cell study (S1002) also recorded data, as did the Space Environment Effects on Fiber Optics Systems (M004)\n\nSix of the seven active experiments that needed to record data used one or two \"Experiment Power and Data System\" (EPDS) modules. Each EPDS contained a processing and control module, a magnetic tape recorder and two LiSO batteries.\nOne experiment (S0069) used a 4-track magnetic tape module not as part of an EPDS.\n\nFifty-seven science and technology experiments – involving government and university investigators from the United States, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom – flew on the LDEF mission. A total of 57 experiments were conducted on the LDEF. Interstellar gases also would be trapped in an attempt to find clues into the formation of the Milky Way and the evolution of heavier elements. Some examples are investigation of exposure effects on:\nand physics in low gravity – e.g. crystal growth.\n\nAt least one of the on-board experiments, the Thermal Control Surfaces Experiment (TCSE), used the RCA 1802 microprocessor.\n\nIn the German experiment EXOSTACK, 30% of \"Bacillus subtilis\" spores survived the nearly 6 years exposure to outer space when embedded in salt crystals, whereas 80% survived in the presence of glucose, which stabilize the structure of the cellular macromolecules, especially during vacuum-induced dehydration.\n\nIf shielded against solar UV, spores of \"B. subtilis\" were capable of surviving in space for up to 6 years, especially if embedded in clay or meteorite powder (artificial meteorites). The data may support the likelihood of interplanetary transfer of microorganisms within meteorites, the so-called lithopanspermia hypothesis.\n\nThe Space Exposed Experiment Developed for Students (SEEDS) allowed students the opportunity to grow control and experimental tomato seeds that had been exposed on LDEF comparing and reporting the results. 12.5 million seeds were flown, and students from elementary to graduate school returned 8000 reports to NASA. The L.A. Times reported that a DNA mutation from space exposure could yield a poisonous fruit, and the report served to raise awareness of the experiment and generate discussion. Space seeds germinated sooner and grew faster than the control seeds. Space seeds were more porous than terrestrial seeds.\n\nAt LDEF's launch, retrieval was scheduled for March 19, 1985, eleven months after deployment. Schedules slipped, postponing the retrieval mission first to 1986, then indefinitely due to the \"Challenger\" disaster. After 5.7 years its orbit had decayed to about 175 nautical miles and it was likely to burn up on reentry in a little over a month.\n\nIt was finally recovered by on mission STS-32 on January 12, 1990. \"Columbia\" approached LDEF in such a way as to minimize possible contamination to LDEF from thruster exhaust. While LDEF was still attached to the RMS arm, an extensive 4.5 hour survey photographed each individual experiment tray, as well as larger areas. Nevertheless, shuttle operations did contaminate experiments when concerns for human comfort out-weighed important LDEF mission goals.\n\n\"Columbia\" landed at Edwards Air Force Base on January 20, 1990. With LDEF still in its bay, \"Columbia\" was ferried back on the Shuttle Carrier Aircraft to the Kennedy Space Center on January 26. Special efforts were taken to ensure protection against contamination of the payload bay during the ferry flight.\n\nBetween January 30 and 31, LDEF was removed from \"Columbia\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s payload bay in KSC's Orbiter Processing Facility, placed in a special payload canister, and transported to the Operations and Checkout Building. On February 1, 1990, LDEF was transported in the LDEF Assembly and Transportation System to the Spacecraft Assembly and Encapsulation Facility – 2, where the LDEF project team led deintegration activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "548566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548566", "title": "Mahendra Kapoor", "text": "Mahendra Kapoor\n\nMahendra Kapoor (9 January 1934 – 27 September 2008) was an Indian playback singer.\n\nIn a long career spanning decades, his repertoire included popular songs such as 'Chalo ek baar phir se Ajnabi ban jayen hum dono' (Gumrah), and 'Neele gagan ke tale' (Hamraaz). His name however became most closely associated with patriotic songs including 'Mere Desh Ki Dharti' in Manoj Kumar's film \"Upkaar\". In 1972, he was awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India. He lent his voice to actor Manoj Kumar in most of his films and had a lengthy association with director-producer B.R. Chopra.\n\nMahendra Kapoor was born in Amritsar, but soon moved to Mumbai. At an early age he was inspired by legendary singer Mohammed Rafi and considered him his mentor, he started learning classical music under classical singers like Pt. Hussanlal, Pt. Jagannath Bua, Ustad Niaz Ahmed Khan, Ustad Abdul Rehman Khan and Pt.Tulsidaas Sharma. Kapoor created a style of his own moulded largely on Rafi, and won the Metro Murphy All-India singing competition, which led to his debut as a playback singer in V. Shantaram's Navrang in 1958, singing \"Aadha Hai Chandrama Raat Aadhi\", under the musical direction of C. Ramchandra.\n\nSome of Kapoor's most notable songs were the ones he performed in B.R. Chopra's films (\"Dhool Ka Phool\", \"Gumrah\", \"Waqt\", \"Hamraaz\", \"Dhund\" and \"Nikaah\") and for Manoj Kumar (\"Upkaar\", \"Purab Aur Paschim\").\n\nKapoor had a very large vocal range, and he is sometimes known as \"The Vibrant Voice of India\". He was the first Indian playback singer to record music in English. He was asked by the group Boney M to sing their songs in Hindi with Musarat from Pakistan, which resulted in the Pop Album \"M-3\". Some of the songs on the album are \"Chori Chori Chalo!!\"(Original, Hoorray! Hoorray! by Boney M), \"O Meri Champe Ki Daali\". Most of the hit songs sung by Mahendra Kapoor which are famous, are from B.R. Chopra movies or Manoj Kumar's movies. His song from 'Bandhan', 'Shakti'. 'Doli', 'Ek Nazar', 'Admi Aur Insaan', 'Sangam', 'Tawaif' are also quite popular.\n\nMahendra Kapoor also sang a duet with Mohammed Rafi. The song was \"Kaisi Haseen Aaj Baharon Ki Raat\" from the 1967 film \"Aadmi\", which was originally recorded as a duet with Rafi and Talat Mehmood. Manoj Kumar, one of the lead stars refused to use Talat's voice for him and the song was re-recorded with Kapoor replacing Talat.\nMahendra Kapoor also sang the dohas, mantras, chopaiyan and also Title track of Mahabharat 1988 TV series.\n\nKapoor sung in a large number of Indian languages, and is the playback singer who has performed in the largest number of in Gujarati, Punjabi, Bhojpuri and Marathi movies. He also performed the title song for the TV series \"Mahabharat\". In Marathi he was very popular for being the voice of Dada Kondke in all his movies. In spite of being associated with Dada Kondke's colloquial style his singing for Marathi movies was not limited to Dada Kondke's movies only.\n\nKapoor was married and had three daughters and also one son. His son Rohan Kapoor is an actor and singer, who acted in a few films in the 1980s such as Yash Chopra's \"Faasle\" (1985) and \"Love 86\" (1986), and Prakash Mehra's \"Imandaar\", and later did stage shows together with his father.\n\nOn 27 September 2008, Kapoor died following a cardiac failure at his home in Mumbai, aged 74. He was survived by his wife, children, children-in-law and grandchildren.\n\nMahendra Kapoor is one of the golden era singers when Mohd Rafi, Kishore Kumar, Mukesh and Manna Dey was ruling the main platform of playback singers of the bollywood. He remained as one of the most popular singer in the Bollywood who has given his voice to almost all of the popular heroes like Dilip Kumar, Shammi Kapoor, Raj Kapoor, Dev Anand, Shashi Kapoor, Biswajeet, Raj Kumar, Dharmendra, Amitabh Bahchcan, Manoj Kumar, Jeetendra, Vinod Khanna, Shatrughina Sinha and many more. For Punjabi movies he has given his voice to Varendra, Mehar Mittal, Prem Nath and many more.\n\nHindi\n\nMarathi\n\n"}
{"id": "42861322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42861322", "title": "Mancipium Mariae", "text": "Mancipium Mariae\n\nMancipium Mariae (Latin \"the slavery/a slave of Mary\") – a Christian devotion.\n\nIts rules, referring to older traditions, were formulated from the inspiration of Jesuit Kasper Drużbicki in following works:\n\nIn ancient Rome \"mancipium\" meant the relation of subjection of one person to another, existing because of \"mancipatio\" (the reverse process is the emancipation), as well as a person subjected thus.\n\nThe devotion consisted on the act of yielding oneself prisoner to the Mother of God – of subjection to her will. Each slave of Mary had also the duty of praying a litany in the morning and evening and an office on Saturday. The sign of the slavery was a fetters-shaped chainlet with the inscription \"ego mancipium Mariae\".\n\nThis sort of piety gained a great popularity in the age of Baroque (perhaps, among others, Wespazjan Kochowski used to practise it) and had a significant impact on the development of Marian veneration in the Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6596820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6596820", "title": "Maria Sophia of Neuburg", "text": "Maria Sophia of Neuburg\n\nMaria Sophia Elisabeth of Neuburg (6 August 1666 – 4 August 1699) was queen of Portugal as the wife of King Peter II from 1687 until her death in 1699. A popular queen, she was noted for her extraordinary generosity and for being the mother of the famously extravagant John V of Portugal.\n\nMaria Sophia was born at the Schloss Benrath outside Düsseldorf in what is now Germany. Her father Philip William was the reigning Count Palatine of Neuburg. In 1685 he became Elector Palatine following the death of his cousin Charles II, an inheritance that greatly increased the family's status within Europe. In December 1676, Maria Sophia's sister Eleonore Magdalene was married to Holy Roman Emperor Leopold I owing to the family's reputation as producing fertile women. After two marriages, Leopold had no living male heirs. The new Empress Eleonore Magdalene fulfilled her function and quickly mothered two future Holy Roman Emperors (Joseph I and Charles VI).\n\nA similar succession crisis was occurring in Portugal. Isabel Luísa, Princess of Beira, heiress to the throne and only daughter of King Peter II, was childless and had been refused by most European sovereigns due to her sickly nature and strict Portuguese succession rights. As a result, the Portuguese ambassador Manuel da Silva Teles was sent to Heidelberg to ask for the hand of Maria Sophia, with the encouragement of Empress Eleonore Magdalene. The embassy left Lisbon on 8 December 1686 and the marriage contract was signed on 22 May 1687. A dowry of 100,000 florins was agreed on.\n\nFollowing her proxy marriage on 2 July 1687 in Heidelberg, Maria Sophia left her native Germany the following August. She travelled up the Rhine to receive the honours of all courts along the river. At Brila, Maria Sophia embarked on an English yacht that was put at her disposal by order of James II of England. She was accompanied by an English fleet that travelled to Plymouth with the Duke of Grafton, son of the late Charles II of England. The new queen arrived in Lisbon 12 August 1687 amid great celebration and the same day the couple was formally married by the Archbishop of Lisbon at Ribeira Palace. Supposedly Louis XIV was \"greatly chagrined\" by Peter's decision to marry a daughter of the Elector Palatine and not a French princess, as he had hoped.\n\nThe young queen quickly gained the affection of her stepdaughter Isabel Luísa, who was herself only three years younger than Maria Sophia. She was also loved by her husband, who was quickly presented with a son the year after his marriage. The son survived only three weeks, but a year later, Maria Sophia had another son who would succeed his father as John V of Portugal. As an adult, he would marry his first cousin Maria Anna of Austria, daughter of Empress Eleonore Magdalene.\n\nMaria Sophia was described as gentle, and Peter reportedly treated her with respect. While she clashed with her widowed sister-in-law Catherine of Braganza on matters of etiquette, she was described as a popular queen who was decidedly generous and set about helping the poor of Lisbon. Her pious nature also made her a popular queen. She was frequently involved with charities that supported widows and orphans and allowed poor patients access to medical care at the royal palace. She had a very intimate friendship with Father , who died with the reputation of a saint. In Beja, she financed the foundation of a Franciscan school. She died in Lisbon of fever, possibly a symptom of erysipelas, on 4 August 1699, two days before her thirty-third birthday. Her body was laid to rest at the Monastery of São Vicente de Fora in Lisbon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "232786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232786", "title": "Maximum life span", "text": "Maximum life span\n\nMaximum life span (or, for humans, maximum reported age at death) is a measure of the maximum amount of time one or more members of a population have been observed to survive between birth and death. The term can also denote an estimate of the maximum amount of time that a member of a given species could survive between birth and death, provided circumstances that are optimal to that member's longevity.\n\nMost living species have at least one upper limit on the number of times the cells of a member can divide. This is called the Hayflick limit, although number of cell divisions does not strictly control lifespan.\n\nIn animal studies, maximum span is often taken to be the mean life span of the most long-lived 10% of a given cohort. By another definition, however, maximum life span corresponds to the age at which the oldest known member of a species or experimental group has died. Calculation of the maximum life span in the latter sense depends upon initial sample size.\n\n\"Maximum life span\" contrasts with \"mean life span (average life span\", \"life expectancy)\", and \"longevity\". Mean life span varies with susceptibility to disease, accident, suicide and homicide, whereas maximum life span is determined by \"rate of aging\". Longevity refers only to the characteristics of the especially long lived members of a population, such as infirmities as they age or \"compression of morbidity\", and not the specific life span of an individual.\n\nThe longest-living person whose dates of birth and death were verified to the modern norms of \"Guinness World Records\" and the Gerontology Research Group was Jeanne Calment (1875-1997), a French woman who lived to 122. Reduction of infant mortality has accounted for most of the increased average life span longevity, but since the 1960s mortality rates among those over 80 years have decreased by about 1.5% per year. \"The progress being made in lengthening lifespans and postponing senescence is entirely due to medical and public-health efforts, rising standards of living, better education, healthier nutrition and more salubrious lifestyles.\" Animal studies suggest that further lengthening of median human lifespan as well as maximum lifespan could be achieved through \"calorie restriction mimetic\" drugs or by directly reducing food consumption. Although calorie restriction has not been proven to extend the maximum human life span, as of 2014, results in ongoing primate studies have demonstrated that the assumptions derived from rodents are valid in primates as well [Reference: Nature 1 April 2014].\n\nNo fixed theoretical limit to human longevity is apparent today. \"A fundamental question in aging research is whether humans and other species possess an immutable life-span limit.\" \"The assumption that the maximum human life span is fixed has been justified, [but] is invalid in a number of animal models and ... may become invalid for humans as well.\" Studies in the biodemography of human longevity indicate a \"late-life mortality deceleration law\": that death rates level off at advanced ages to a late-life mortality plateau. That is, there is no fixed upper limit to human longevity, or fixed maximal human lifespan. This law was first quantified in 1939, when researchers found that the one-year probability of death at advanced age asymptotically approaches a limit of 44% for women and 54% for men.\n\nScientists have observed that a person's VOmax value (a measure of the volume of oxygen flow to the cardiac muscle) decreases as a function of age. Therefore, the maximum lifespan of a person could be determined by calculating when the person's VOmax value drops below the basal metabolic rate necessary to sustain life, which is approximately 3 ml per kg per minute. On the basis of this hypothesis, athletes with a VOmax value between 50 and 60 at age 20 would be expected \"to live for 100 to 125 years, provided they maintained their physical activity so that their rate of decline in VOmax remained constant\".\nA theoretical study suggested the maximum human lifespan to be around 125 years using a modified stretched exponential function for human survival curves. The analysis of dynamics of the body mass in human population indicates extremums, which correspond to mean (70-75 years), the commonly accepted maximum (100–110 years) and maximum known (140–160 years) lifespan.\nIn another study, researchers claimed that there exists a maximum lifespan for humans, and that the human maximal lifespan has been declining since the 1990s.\nThis study is now disputed on the basis of simple coding errors and biased sampling. This study also supports a continuing increase in both theoretical and observed upper human lifespan, based on observed data from 200 national populations. However, a theoretical study also suggested that the maximum human life expectancy at birth is limited by the human life characteristic value δ, which is around 104 years.\n\nThe United Nations has undertaken an important Bayesian sensitivity analysis of global population burden based on life expectancy projection at birth in future decades. The 2017 95% prediction interval of 2090 average life expectancy rises as high as +6 (106, in Century Representation Form) by 2090, with dramatic, ongoing, layered consequences on world population and demography should that happen. The prediction interval is extremely wide, and the United Nations can not be certain. Organizations like the Methuselah Foundation are working toward an end to senescence and practically unlimited human lifespan. If successful, the demographic implications for human population will be greater in effective multiplier terms than any experienced in the last five centuries if maximum lifespan remains unlimited by law. Modern Malthusian predictions of overpopulation based on increased longevity have been criticized on the same basis as general Population Alarmism (see Malthusianism).\n\nSmall animals such as birds and squirrels rarely live to their maximum life span, usually dying of accidents, disease or predation.\n\nThe maximum life span of most species is documented in the Anage repository.\n\nMaximum life span is usually longer for species that are larger or have effective defenses against predation, such as bird flight, chemical defenses or living in social groups.\n\nThe differences in life span between species demonstrate the role of genetics in determining maximum life span (\"rate of aging\"). The records (in years) are these:\n\nThe longest-lived vertebrates have been variously described as\n\n\nInvertebrate species which continue to grow as long as they live (\"e.g.,\" certain clams, some coral species) can on occasion live hundreds of years:\n\n\n\nPlants are referred to as annuals which live only one year, biennials which live two years, and perennials which live longer than that. The longest-lived perennials, woody-stemmed plants such as trees and bushes, often live for hundreds and even thousands of years (one may question whether or not they may die of old age). A giant sequoia, General Sherman is alive and well in its third millennium. A Great Basin Bristlecone Pine called Methuselah is 4,848 years old (as of 2017) and the Bristlecone Pine called Prometheus was a little older still, at least 4,844 years (and possibly as old as 5,000 years), when it was cut down in 1964. The oldest known plant (possibly oldest living thing) is a clonal Quaking Aspen (\"Populus tremuloides\") tree colony in the Fishlake National Forest in Utah called Pando at about 80,000 years. Lichen, a symbiotic algae and fungal proto-plant, such as \"Rhizocarpon geographicum\" can live upwards of 10,000 years.\n\n\"Maximum life span\" here means the mean life span of the most long-lived 10% of a given cohort. Caloric restriction has not yet been shown to break mammalian world records for longevity. Rats, mice, and hamsters experience maximum life-span extension from a diet that contains all of the nutrients but only 40–60% of the calories that the animals consume when they can eat as much as they want. Mean life span is increased 65% and maximum life span is increased 50%, when caloric restriction is begun just before puberty. For fruit flies the life extending benefits of calorie restriction are gained immediately at any age upon beginning calorie restriction and ended immediately at any age upon resuming full feeding.\n\nA few transgenic strains of mice have been created that have maximum life spans greater than that of wild-type or laboratory mice. The Ames and Snell mice, which have mutations in pituitary transcription factors and hence are deficient in Gh, LH, TSH, and secondarily IGF1, have extensions in maximal lifespan of up to 65%. To date, both in absolute and relative terms, these Ames and Snell mice have the maximum lifespan of any mouse not on caloric restriction (see below on GhR). Mutations/knockout of other genes affecting the GH/IGF1 axis, such as Lit, Ghr and Irs1 have also shown extension in lifespan, but much more modest both in relative and absolute terms. The longest lived laboratory mouse ever was a Ghr knockout mouse, which lived to ≈1800 days in the lab of Andrzej Bartke at Southern Illinois University. The maximum for normal B6 mice under ideal conditions is 1200 days.\n\nMost biomedical gerontologists believe that biomedical molecular engineering will eventually extend maximum lifespan and even bring about rejuvenation.Anti-aging drugs are a potential tool for extending life.\n\nAubrey de Grey, a theoretical gerontologist, has proposed that aging can be reversed by Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence. De Grey has established The Methuselah Mouse Prize to award money to researchers who can extend the maximum life span of mice. So far, three Mouse Prizes have been awarded: one for breaking longevity records to Dr. Andrzej Bartke of Southern Illinois University (using GhR knockout mice); one for late-onset rejuvenation strategies to Dr. Stephen Spindler of the University of California (using caloric restriction initiated late in life); and one to Dr. Z. Dave Sharp for his work with the pharmaceutical rapamycin.\n\nAccumulated DNA damage appears to be a limiting factor in the determination of maximum life span. The theory that DNA damage is the primary cause of aging, and thus a principal determinant of maximum life span, has attracted increased interest in recent years. This is based, in part, on evidence in human and mouse that inherited deficiencies in DNA repair genes often cause accelerated aging. There is also substantial evidence that DNA damage accumulates with age in mammalian tissues, such as those of the brain, muscle, liver and kidney (reviewed by Bernstein et al. and see DNA damage theory of aging and DNA damage (naturally occurring)). One expectation of the theory (that DNA damage is the primary cause of aging) is that among species with differing maximum life spans, the capacity to repair DNA damage should correlate with lifespan. The first experimental test of this idea was by Hart and Setlow who measured the capacity of cells from seven different mammalian species to carry out DNA repair. They found that nucleotide excision repair capability increased systematically with species longevity. This correlation was striking and stimulated a series of 11 additional experiments in different laboratories over succeeding years on the relationship of nucleotide excision repair and life span in mammalian species (reviewed by Bernstein and Bernstein). In general, the findings of these studies indicated a good correlation between nucleotide excision repair capacity and life span. The association between nucleotide excision repair capability and longevity is strengthened by the evidence that defects in nucleotide excision repair proteins in humans and rodents cause features of premature aging, as reviewed by Diderich.\n\nFurther support for the theory that DNA damage is the primary cause of aging comes from study of Poly ADP ribose polymerases (PARPs). PARPs are enzymes that are activated by DNA strand breaks and play a role in DNA base excision repair. Burkle et al. reviewed evidence that PARPs, and especially PARP-1, are involved in maintaining mammalian longevity. The life span of 13 mammalian species correlated with poly(ADP ribosyl)ation capability measured in mononuclear cells. Furthermore, lymphoblastoid cell lines from peripheral blood lymphocytes of humans over age 100 had a significantly higher poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation capability than control cell lines from younger individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52603511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52603511", "title": "Modern Stoicism", "text": "Modern Stoicism\n\nModern Stoicism is an intellectual and popular movement in the late 20th and early 21st century which attempts to revive the Stoic philosophy in the modern setting. It is not to be confused with Neostoicism, an analogous phenomenon in the 17th century. The term \"Modern Stoicism\" covers both the revival of interest in the Stoic philosophy and the philosophical efforts to adjust\nAncient Stoicism to the language and conceptual framework of the present. 'The rise of Modern Stoicism' has received attention in the international media since around November 2012 when the first Annual Stoic Week event was organized.\n\nModern Stoicism has developed in the context of the 20th-century surge of interest in virtue ethics in general. \"The [...] work by philosophers like Philippa Foot, Alasdair MacIntyre, and Martha Nussbaum, among others, have brought back virtue ethics as a viable alternative to the dominant Kantian-deontological and utilitarian-consequentialist approaches.\" Modern Stoicism draws a lot from the late 20th and early 21st century spike in publications of scholarly works on ancient Stoics. Beyond that, “the Modern Stoicism movement traces its roots to the work of Dr Albert Ellis, who developed Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy, as well as Aaron T. Beck, who is regarded by many as the father to early versions of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy. Viktor Frankl also found stoicism useful while he was imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp during World War II; he later developed his theory known as logotherapy. \n\nOne major premise of Modern Stoicism can be expressed as, in Lawrence Becker's words, \"it is interesting to try to imagine what might have happened if Stoicism had had a continuous twenty-three-hundred-year history; if Stoics had had to confront Bacon and Descartes, Newton and Locke, Hobbes and Bentham, Hume and Kant, Darwin and Marx.\" Or, as Massimo Pigliucci puts it more concisely, \"it is worth considering what it means to 'be a Stoic' in the 21st century.\"\n\nThe first major modern work that spelled out the key premises of Modern Stoicism is, arguably, \"A New Stoicism\" by Lawrence Becker, first published in 1997. For other important books, see the notable books section below.\n\nStoic philosophy was the original philosophical inspiration for modern cognitive psychotherapy, particularly as mediated by Dr Albert Ellis' Rational-Emotive Behaviour Therapy (REBT), the major precursor of CBT. The original cognitive therapy treatment manual for depression by Aaron T. Beck et al. states, \"The philosophical origins of cognitive therapy can be traced back to the Stoic philosophers\". A well-known quotation from \"The Handbook\" of Epictetus was taught to most clients during the initial session of traditional REBT by Ellis and his followers: \"It's not the events that upset us, but our judgments about the events.\" This subsequently became a common element in the \"socialization\" phase of many other approaches to CBT. The question of Stoicism's influence on modern psychotherapy, particularly REBT and CBT, was described in detail in \"The Philosophy of Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy\" (2010) by Donald Robertson. Moreover, several early 20th century psychotherapists were influenced by stoicism, most notably the \"rational persuasion\" school founded by the Swiss neurologist and psychotherapist Paul DuBois, who drew heavily on Stoicism in his clinical work and encouraged his clients to study passages from Seneca as homework assignments.\n\nIt is characteristic of the Modern Stoicism movement that it is global and that it relies heavily on the social media and online communities. As E.O. Scott puts it \"Modern Stoicism is really a “Web 2.0” phenomenon.\" One of the key sites is the Modern Stoicism website, which harbors the Stoicism Today blog and hosts the Annual Stoic Week (online) and Stoicon (offline) events. Another important place is the New Stoa, which was founded in May 1996 and is arguably the first lasting stoic community on the internet. Three key podcasts talking about Stoicism applied to modern thought are the \"Stoic Solutions Podcast\" hosted by Justin Vacula, \"The Practical Stoic Podcast\" hosted by Simon Drew and Steve Karafit's \"The Sunday Stoic\" \n\nThere are also a number of personal blogs exploring stoicism, some of them run by notable stoic scholars (e.g. Massimo Pigliucci, William Irvine or John Sellars) and some by therapists who explore stoic applications (e.g. Donald Robertson). In addition, articles on Stoicism have appeared on popular websites. In E.O.Scott's words, \"[the] potent combination of social media and a few highly publicized books and articles [...] has recently launched stoicism on an exponential growth curve.\" There is a variety of stoic meetups and groups based in places like Australia, Denver, Dublin, Edinburgh, Fremont, Helsinki, London, Manchester, Milwaukee, New York, Orlando, San Francisco, Toronto and Warsaw - amongst others. According to E.O.Scott, \"arguably the most important and influential gathering place for Modern Stoics [online]\" is the \"stoicism group\" on Facebook of ~27 000 people (as of July 19, 2017). The analogous Reddit group has amassed ~96 400 users (as of June 11, 2018). Beyond the Anglophone there is the “Sztuka życia według stoików” site run by Piotr Stankiewicz, \"Stoicyzm Uliczny\" run by Marcin Fabjański and Centrum Praktyki Stoickiej run by Tomasz Mazur and others.\n\nApplications of Modern Stoicism are reported across industries. According to \"Forbes,\" Modern Stoic thought \"hold[s] fascinating promise for business and government leaders tackling global problems in a turbulent, post-recession slump.\" However, two Stoic academics, Kai Whiting and Leonidas Konstantakos, have warned against using \"life-hack Stoicism\" or \"Silicon Valley Stoicism\", as the primary means of understanding Stoic philosophy. Subsequently, they discussed on a popular Stoic blog, Stoicism's role in advocating for change in society, including when it comes to standing against gender-based discrimination in the workplace .\n\nSimilarities of Modern Stoicism and Third Wave CBT have been suggested as well, and its potency in treating depression has been studied. There has also been interest in applying the tenets of Ancient Stoicism to the human origin story and the modern challenges of sustainable development, material consumption and consumerism. \n\nPresumably, the single most difficult challenge that Modern Stoicism faces is its relationship to the core principle of Ancient Stoicism, that is to the principle of “following nature.” In a word, the Ancient Stoics put forward it was unquestionable that in order to live a good life, one needed to live consistently with nature. According to the Ancient Stoics, nature was by definition good and everything which was conformable to nature was deemed good. Moreover, the Ancient Stoics had a teleological outlook on the world, that is, they held that everything in the universe was purposefully and rationally organized to a good end.\n\nHowever, this view is much more difficult to uphold in the present day. As Becker puts it, “science presented significant challenges to our [Stoic] metaphysical views.” The notion of the rational organization of the world seems much more doubtful in the 21st century than it, presumably, was two millennia ago. “When we face the universe,” Becker writes, “we confront its indifference to us and our own insignificance to it. It takes no apparent notice of us, has no role other than Extra for us to play, no aim for us to follow.” Even more pressing questions are raised when we face our own human realm, with the long and still expanding record of genocide and atrocity and the manslaughter that followed. These are major challenges for the ancient Stoic view of the world as a rational and essentially good being.\n\nWe happen upon an analogous problem if we narrow down our interest to human nature (as contrasted to the nature of the universe as a whole). In other words, the idea of “following our human nature” also raises serious questions. As Becker describes it, “it is ‘natural’ to find these [defining] traits in human character and conduct, but it is equally natural to find a significant number of exceptions. As a result, none of these characteristics fits into the most familiar forms of ethical argument from human nature, e.g. (a) that humans are by nature X, and that Y is contrary to X, hence, that Y is contrary to human nature; or (b) that X is what defines the unique function (the essence) of a human being, thus to flourish as a human being is to excel at X.\" In this vein, “following human nature” yields no specific guidelines for conduct either. All told, this is one of the central problems for Modern Stoicism: that in the 21st century it is far more difficult to ground our ethical framework in “nature,” be it universal, cosmic nature, or to special human nature.\n\nBecker acknowledges this problem and even goes to the point of asserting that “stoic ethics would be much better off without its ‘follow nature’ slogan.\" Yet, he reflects that the stoics are, “however, too deeply branded with it to renounce it now. The best we can do is reinterpret it.”\n\nThe reinterpretation he proposes is this. “Following nature means following the facts. It means getting the facts about the physical and social world we inhabit, and the facts about our situation in it [...] before we deliberate about normative matters. It means facing those facts - accepting them for exactly what they are, no more and no less - before we draw normative conclusions from them. It means doing ethics from the facts constructing normative propositions a posteriori. It means adjusting those normative propositions to fit changes in the facts, and accepting those adjustments for exactly what they are, no more and no less. And it means living within the facts - within the realm of actual rather than hypothetical norm.”\n\nThis process of “getting the facts about the [...] world” happens in some measure (but not exclusively) through science. In Becker’s words, “The biological, behavioral, and social sciences contribute to ethics in three important ways: they offer a wealth of material that can be used in the naturalistic arguments [...], they offer explanatory theories (e.g. from evolutionary biology) that help separate relatively fixed traits from transient or malleable ones and they offer powerful, elaborate analyses of learning, rationality, and rational choice.\" Ethical reasoning of a stoic “cannot begin until all relevant description, representation, and prediction are in hand, [...] – until, let us say, the empirical work is done.” This empirical work may be obtained by the scientific method and thus the principle of “following facts” can be (in some contexts) read as “not contradicting science” (not to be confused with simple “following science,” which would be reductive and misleading).\n\nBecker organizes his reading of stoic ethics around the concept of agency. “The Development of Virtue [happens through] the Perfection of Agency,” or through the “ideal agency” as he calls it. In other words, this can be described as the belief in the “inherent primacy of virtue in terms of maximization of one’s agency.” This agency is understood in terms of “a balance of control and stability” and is executed all-things-considered, i.e. upon having obtained the most detailed information about the facts as available.\n\nHappiness, in this view, is also explained and achieved through agency. “We hold,” this is Becker again, “that happiness as understood by mature and fit agents is a property of whole lives, not of transient mental states. We hold that it is achievable only through a proper balance of stability and control in the exercise of agency.” And, “this sort of happiness with one’s life also appears to be a psychological consequence of healthy agency [...] The life of a stoic sage is filled with such happiness, as a consequence of virtue.\"\n\nIn Becker’s version of Stoicism, several dogmas of Ancients Stoics are questioned or challenged. For example, the traditional stoic all-or-nothing understanding of virtue is questioned (to some extent). In the original, Orthodox Stoicism one was either a perfect sage or no sage at all, there was no “middle ground,” or “in between.” The Ancient Stoic virtue admits of no degrees. And yet, Becker lays ground for a softer, more nuanced approach. “You can drown,” he writes, “face down on the calm surface of the sea as surely as at the bottom. [...] We [i.e. the Modern Stoics] follow later colleagues in thinking that these doctrines are untenable.”\n\nAnother dogma of the Ancient Stoics that is sometimes questioned in Modern Stoicism is the idea that the gateways of stoic philosophy are open to everyone and that living a stoic life is definitely the best option for every human being. E.g. in Becker’s \"New Stoicism\" suggests that “acting appropriately, as understood here, is a special kind of optimization project – one that it is logically possible to reject. (Which people with compulsive, obsessive, or addictive personalities may in fact reject.) [Modern Stoic] claim is, only healthy agents, at least those well along the road to fitness in their deliberative powers, cannot plausibly reject it.”\n\nAnother example of possible discrepancies between the Modern Stoic approach and Ancient Stoicism is the question of whether a certain amount of external goods is required for a good life. In the Orthodox Stoic view there are absolutely no entry conditions to living a stoic life. One can become a sage no matter the circumstances: be it poverty, illness, physical adversity and so on. This issue has been traditionally the bone of contention between the stoics (who held the mentioned position) and the followers of Aristotle (who held that a certain amount of external goods is necessary for development of virtue). In this context, Becker’s words are quite non-orthodox coming from the stoic position. He writes that “it is [...] plausible to conclude, however, that there is an identifiable kernel of bodily and psychological health that is a necessary condition of all further development. If this kernel is damaged, so is the capacity to develop agency.”\n\nA very important concept of Traditional Stoicism is the distinction between things within one’s power and not within our power. While this concept is embraced fully by many Modern Stoics, some reinterpret it. Becker, for instance, points out that the whole idea of the dichotomy is in fact a major oversimplification. As he puts it, “[the] distinction between things that are within our control, or ‘up to us,’ and those who are not [...] [is] misleading.” Instead, he proposes to read it along the lines of “it is wise to calibrate the strength, depth, and dissemination of our attachments to the fragility and transience of the objects involved.”\n\nOn the other hand, William Irvine goes even further and undermines the central premise of the dichotomy, i.e. that the distinction between things “in our power” and “not in our power” is sharp and that there is no third option. In other words, Irvine suggests the possibility of turning the “dichotomy of control” into a “trichotomy of control.” Irvine argues “We can restate Epictetus’s dichotomy as follows: There are things over which we have complete control and things over which we have no control at all. As well as suggesting \"the dichotomy is a false dichotomy, since it ignores the existence of things over which we have some but not complete control.” Pigliucci describes it as follows: “some things are up to us (chiefly, our judgments and actions), some things are not up to us (major historical events, natural phenomena), but on a number of other things we have partial control. Irvine recasts the third category in terms of internalized goals, which makes more sense of the original dichotomy.”\n\nThere is also no unity in evaluating the ascetic elements in stoicism and in defining the sage’s attitude towards the ordinary pleasures of life. Becker mentions “the confusion, both among stoics and their critics” and the “false notion that the stoic ideal is a life devoid of the ordinary pleasures of sex, food, drink, music, wealth, fame, friends, and so on” (according to Becker this confusion happens because “stoics have occasionally claimed that, for the sage, \"eudaiomonia\" somehow replaces ordinary happiness”. In this vein, Stankiewicz argued against the “ascetic misinterpretation,” saying that “stoicism is not asceticism and a stoic is not a monk. In fact, it is the school of The Pale Epicureans that is closer to the ideal of abstemiousness. The stoic proposal is far broader and it extends far beyond the narrow passage of the ascetic way.” Thus, “we [the Modern Stoics] must face the lushness, diversity and – yes! – sensuality of life and we have to live and thrive inside this world, accepting it as it is. Unlike a monk, a stoic doesn’t dodge the myriad of different aspects of the earthly and sensual life.”\n\nOn the other hand, Kevin Patrick refutes this argument, ridiculing it as “hedonic stoicism” and saying that the mentioned position “falls into the more common trap and misinterpretation, that since externals are indifferent to us, we should go ahead and indulge in all of those things for which we have a proclivity.” “Modern Stoics,” he concludes, “ought to be stoics.”\n\nIrvine takes a more modest stance and he proposes a program of “voluntary discomfort.” As he describes it: “By undertaking acts of voluntary discomfort – by, for example, choosing to be cold and hungry when we could be warm and well fed – we harden ourselves against misfortunes that might befell us in the future. If all we know is comfort, we might be traumatized when we are forced to experience pain or discomfort, as we someday almost surely will. In other words, voluntary discomfort can be thought of as a kind of vaccine: By exposing ourselves to a small amount of a weakened virus now, we create in ourselves an immunity that will protect us from a debilitating illness in the future.”\n\nThe following list, arranged by the time of first publication, includes positions representing modern Stoicism only, while it excludes purely scholarship books on ancient Stoics, biographies, etc.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10477944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10477944", "title": "Non-voluntary euthanasia", "text": "Non-voluntary euthanasia\n\nNon-voluntary euthanasia is euthanasia conducted when the explicit consent of the individual concerned is unavailable, such as when the person is in a persistent vegetative state, or in the case of young children. It contrasts with \"involuntary\" euthanasia, when euthanasia is performed \"against\" the will of the patient.\nThe different possible situations considered non-voluntary euthanasia are when the decision to end the life of the patient is 1) based on what the incapacitated individual would have wanted if they could be asked, 2) based on what the decision maker would want if he or she were in the patient's place, and 3) made by a doctor based on their own criteria and reasoning.\n\nEuthanasia can all be divided into passive or active variants. Passive euthanasia entails the withholding of common treatments, such as antibiotics, necessary for the continuance of life. Active euthanasia entails the use of lethal substances or forces, such as administering a lethal injection, to kill and is the most controversial means. A number of authors consider these terms to be misleading and unhelpful.\n\n\"Active\" non-voluntary euthanasia is illegal in all countries in the world, although it is practised in the Netherlands on infants (see below) under an agreement between physicians and district attorneys. \"Passive\" non-voluntary euthanasia (withholding life support) is legal in various countries, such as India, Albania, and many parts of the United States and is practiced in English hospitals.\n\nNon-voluntary euthanasia has been heavily debated. For example, Len Doyal, a professor of medical ethics and former member of the ethics committee of the British Medical Association, argued for legalization, saying in 2006 that \"[p]roponents of voluntary euthanasia should support non-voluntary euthanasia under appropriate circumstances and with proper regulation\". Arguing against legalization, Peter Saunders, campaign director for Care Not Killing, an alliance of Christian and disability groups, called Doyal's proposals \"the very worst form of medical paternalism whereby doctors can end the lives of patients after making a judgment that their lives are of no value and claim that they are simply acting in their patients' best interests\".\n\nNon-voluntary euthanasia is cited as one of the possible outcomes of the slippery slope argument against euthanasia, in which it is claimed that permitting voluntary euthanasia to occur will lead to the support and legalization of non-voluntary and involuntary euthanasia, although other ethicists have contested this idea.\n\nPermitted euthanasia in the Netherlands has been regulated by law since 2002. It states that euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide are not punishable if the attending physician acts in accordance with criteria of due care. Prior to the establishment of that law, euthanasia and assisted suicide in the Netherlands were already tolerated for many years, as for example described by G. van der Wal and R. J. Dillmann in 1994. In a 1994 study, of the studied 5000 requests in the Netherlands, in about 1000 of the cases, doctors prescribed drugs with the explicit goal of shortening the patient's life without the explicit request of the patient, which can be considered cases of non-voluntary euthanasia.\n\nSince 2004, the Netherlands, also has a protocol to be followed in cases of euthanasia on children under the age of 12 (see also below), which was ratified by the Dutch National Association of Pediatricians, although the practice remains technically illegal. Together with colleagues and prosecutors, Eduard Verhagen developed the Groningen Protocol, in which cases prosecutors will refrain from pressing charges.\n\nActive euthanasia on newborns is illegal throughout the world, with the \"de facto\" exception of the Netherlands mentioned above. Because a newborn child is never able to speak for themselves, euthanasia on newborns is by definition non-voluntary. An early example of documented cases of child euthanasia are those performed by the surgeon Harry J. Haiselden in Chicago in the early 20th century.\n\nIn ancient Greece, non-voluntary euthanasia of children was practiced as an early form of eugenics, the belief and practice of improving the genetic quality of the human population, usually by withdrawing care (i.e. passive euthanasia) rather than a physical extermination, an act termed as “exposure”.\n"}
{"id": "2232753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2232753", "title": "Parading on donkey", "text": "Parading on donkey\n\nParading on a donkey is a traditional psychological punishment, consisting in a public humiliation.\n\n"}
{"id": "353837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353837", "title": "Personal experience", "text": "Personal experience\n\nPersonal experience of a human being is the moment-to-moment experience and sensory awareness of internal and external events or a sum of experiences forming an empirical unity such as a period of life.\n\nAn early belief of some philosophers of Ancient Greece was that the mind was like a recording device and simply kept somehow-objective records of what the senses experienced. This was believed in the Western world into the 20th century until cognitive psychology experiments decisively proved that it was not true, and that many events were simply filled in by the mind, based on what \"should be\". This, among other things, explained why eyewitness accounts of events often were so widely varied.\n\nIn Ancient Rome it was believed that personal experience was part of some divine or species-wide collective experience. This gave rise to notions of racial memory, national mission, and such notions as racism and patriotism. It was likely easier to create political movements and military morale with such notions, than a strictly personal idea of experience. Carl Jung and Joseph Campbell were notable investigators of these ideas of collective experience in the 20th century.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, there was rigorous investigation of these ideas. Immanuel Kant noted that it was only possible to explain \"experience and its objects\" as a consequence of each other: either experience makes those objects possible, or those objects make experience possible. This is seen today as dualism, and denying the possibility of a third thing making both experience and whatever reality its objects have, both possible. That thing could be a more universal cognition, as proposed in some versions of Christianity or Gaia philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "49544758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49544758", "title": "Pokémon Sun and Moon", "text": "Pokémon Sun and Moon\n\nPokémon Sun and Moon are role-playing video games developed by Game Freak, published by The Pokémon Company and Nintendo for the Nintendo 3DS. They are the first installments in the seventh generation of \"Pokémon\" games. First announced in February 2016 through a special Nintendo Direct, both \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" were released worldwide in November 2016, commemorating the franchise's 20th anniversary. Two follow-up games, \"Pokémon Ultra Sun\" and \"Pokémon Ultra Moon\", were released for the 3DS in November 2017.\n\nAs with previous installments, each game follows the journey of a young Pokémon trainer as they train Pokémon. This time, the game takes place in the Alola region—based on Hawaii—with the object of the game being to thwart the schemes of Team Skull, and later the Aether Foundation, all while attempting to challenge various Pokémon trainers of gradually increasing difficulty. \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" introduced 81 new Pokémon species, and includes new features such as Alolan forms of previous generation Pokémon, powerful moves known as Z-Moves, new, powerful creatures known as Ultra Beasts, updated battle and training mechanics, and improved polygonal 3D graphics. The games also adopted the previously introduced battle mechanic known as Mega Evolution, which was first introduced in \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\". Although \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" are mostly independent of each other, both feature largely the same plot, and while either can be played separately, trading Pokémon between the two games is allowed and necessary to complete the Pokédex, just like in previous installments.\n\nThe games received generally favorable reviews from critics, who welcomed the change from the formula used by prior Pokémon games and praised the gameplay of \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" while criticizing their poor storyline and lack of content beyond the primary plot. Upon release, the games sold over 10 million copies worldwide within a week, becoming one of the fastest selling games in Nintendo's history. With over 16 million copies sold worldwide by the end of 2017, \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" are the third-best-selling Nintendo 3DS titles, after \"Mario Kart 7\" and their predecessors, \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\".\n\n\"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" are role-playing video games with adventure elements, based in the fictional Alola region (loosely based on Hawaii), presented in a third-person, overhead perspective. The player controls a young trainer who goes on a quest to catch and train creatures known as Pokémon, and win battles against other trainers. By defeating enemy Pokémon in turn-based battles, the player's Pokémon gains experience, allowing them to level up and increase their battle statistics, learn new battle techniques, and in some cases, evolve into more powerful Pokémon. Players can capture wild Pokémon, found during random encounters, by weakening them in battle and catching them with Poké Balls, allowing them to be added to their party. Players are also able to battle and trade Pokémon with other human players using the Nintendo 3DS' connectivity features. Like in previous games in the series, certain Pokémon are only obtainable in either \"Sun\" or \"Moon\", with players encouraged to trade with others in order to obtain all Pokémon from both versions.\n\n\"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon,\" like their predecessors, are presented in fully three dimensional (3D) polygonal graphics, allowing for more interactivity with the overworld and more dynamic action during battles. However, the character models in \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" possess more realistic proportions compared to chibi-styled models used in \"Pokemon X\" and \"Y\" or \"Pokémon Omega Ruby\" and \"Alpha Sapphire\". Players are also able to customize their Pokémon trainer's appearance, choosing gender, skin tone and hair color at the start of the game, and can later acquire outfits and accessories to change their character's appearance. Joining the previous generations of Pokémon are all new species, such as the new Starter Pokémon; Rowlet, Litten, and Popplio, and the Pokémon that are, within the fictional Pokémon world, described as Legendary, namely Solgaleo and Lunala.\n\n\"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" is the first entry in the series to be available in Chinese, both Simplified and Traditional, along with English, French, Spanish, Italian, German, Japanese, and Korean, for a total of nine playable languages. The games introduce variants of Pokémon introduced in older games with new typings and appearances, known as Alola Forms. Alola Form Vulpix and Ninetales, which are Fire-types in other regions, are respectively Ice- and dual Ice- and Fairy-types. Alola Form Sandshrew and Sandslash, which are Ground-types in other regions, are Ice- and Steel-types. Throughout the game, the player utilizes a Rotom-possessed Pokédex, which gives a minimap for the player containing markers for story objectives in the 3DS touchscreen.\n\n\"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" introduces a new type of move known as Z-Moves that are powerful and can only be used once during battle. The \"Poké Finder\" is a game mode which allows players to take photos of Pokémon in the wild, similar to \"Pokémon Snap\". In addition, the two games' clocks are set 12 hours apart from each other, with \"Sun\" operating on the 3DS' time and \"Moon\" operating 12 hours ahead. Character customization as previously seen in \"X\" and \"Y\" returns in \"Sun\" and \"Moon\". A new \"Pokémon Refresh\" feature allows players to care for and feed their Pokémon. Mega Evolution, a game mechanic first introduced in \"X\" and \"Y\", returns in \"Sun\" and \"Moon\". The \"Battle Tree\" is a location which allows players to battle or team up with Pokémon Trainers, including Kanto region trainers Red and Blue. Players can trade or battle with other players online. From a location called the Festival Plaza, players could participate in \"Global Missions\", where players from across the world work towards a set target (such as catching 100 million Pokémon collectively).\n\n\"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" are compatible with \"Pokémon Bank\", an online Pokémon storage system introduced during the previous generation of \"Pokémon\" games. In a special Pokémon Direct on February 26, 2016, Tsunekazu Ishihara from The Pokémon Company announced that Pokémon caught in the Virtual Console versions of \"Red\", \"Blue\", and \"Yellow\" are transferable to \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" via \"Pokémon Bank\". Pokémon caught in \"X\", \"Y\", \"Omega Ruby\" and \"Alpha Sapphire\" are also transferable. Compatibility for Pokémon Bank became available on January 24, 2017. Tomy also released a peripheral interactive toy resembling a Z-Ring, which synchronizes with the use of Z-moves in the games.\n\nThe games take place on the tropical islands of the Alola region, composed entirely of islands. Joe Skrebels of IGN describes it as \"Pokémon's take on Hawaii\". During an interview at E3 2016, Shigeru Ohmori noted that Game Freak staff took trips to Hawaii to conduct research for \"Sun\" and \"Moon\".\n\nThe leading scientist in the Alola region is Professor Kukui, whose name comes from the kukui, also known as the candlenut, the Hawaiian state tree, continuing the trend of \"Pokémon\" professors being named after trees. Team Skull is the name of the villainous group for Alola. The Aether Foundation is an organization which studies Ultra Beasts, mysterious creatures from another dimension. Professor Oak does not appear in \"Sun\" and \"Moon\", his cousin Samson Oak taking his place.\n\nThe player starts off as a youngster moving from Kanto to Alola's Melemele Island with their mother. After meeting Lillie and rescuing her special Pokémon Nebby, they obtain a starter Pokémon from local Professor Kukui and embark on the island challenge, a coming-of-age custom spanning trials across Alola, along with local youngster Hau. Unlike in previous games, trials involve battles with powered-up Pokémon followed by battles with each island's Kahuna upon completion of an island's trials. Throughout this the player encountered Team Skull, a gang of people who quit the island trails whose members include their leader Guzma and enforcer Gladion, and the Aether Foundation, an organization aiming to shelter Pokémon from various threats.\n\nDuring a visit to Aether Foundation's base, Aether Paradise (a very large floating structure), a mysterious Ultra Beast emerged from a wormhole and retreated before it could be defeated or captured. Later, after the player defeated Team Skull at their base, Gladion revealed that Team Skull had been working for Aether Foundation, kidnapping Nebby to use its powers in summoning Ultra Beasts. The player proceeded to battle through Aether Paradise with Hau and Gladion's help, eventually defeating Aether president Lusamine, who is revealed to be Gladion and Lillie's mother. Regardless, Lusamine and Guzma managed to open an Ultra Wormhole, transporting them to Ultra Space (the Ultra Beasts' dimension) and evolving Nebby into a cocoon-like form while unleashing Ultra Beasts on Alola's islands, forcing the island Kahunas and guardian deities to fight them.\n\nProceeding to the final island, the player and Lillie perform a ritual to evolve Nebby into its final form (Solgaleo or Lunala depending on the version and preset gender) at the island's Altar. With Nebby's newfound power, the player and Lillie traveled to Ultra Space and encountered Lusamine who, not wanting to be rescued, allows herself to be taken over by the Ultra Beast they fought earlier. After defeating the mutant, the player returned to Alola and ascends Mount Lanakila where they fight the newly-formed Alola Pokémon League Elite Four. In the last match, they defeat Kukui to become Alola's first Pokémon League champion. In the credits, the player battles Melemele's guardian deity Tapu Koko after a celebration, with Lillie and Lusamine departing Alola for Kanto the following day.\nAfter becoming the champion, the player is contacted by two members of the International Police: Anabel (who was head of the Battle Tower in \"Pokémon Emerald\") and Looker. The player assisted the two with handling wild Ultra Beasts that Lusamine let loose into Alola in a series of quests. Following the final quest, Looker revealed that he saw another Ultra Beast, although Anabel dismissed this. If the player then travels to Ten Carat Hill, they will encounter Necrozma, which is said to be highly reminiscent of the Ultra Beasts.\n\nIn an interview with \"TIME\", game director Shigeru Ohmori stated that the choice of \"Sun and Moon\" as title was inspired by the two celestial bodies’ metaphorical representation of human relationships. Hawaii was chosen as the basis for the game’s region following the title’s determination, due to its clear nights and plentiful sunshine. The development started immediately after \"Pokémon Omega Ruby\" and \"Alpha Sapphire\" was completed and Ohmori kept his game director position. Since the games were to be released on the franchise’s 20th anniversary, \"Sun and Moon\" was developed comparatively from scratch with the application of more radical changes than its predecessor. Separately, he also mentioned that the games intended to place more emphasis on the Pokémon and the nature of the games, in addition to the player’s interactions with them.\n\nThe first Pokémon of the seventh generation to be designed was Jangmo-o. Regarding the various other designs of the generation, Ohmori mentioned that “[f]or the 20th anniversary, we wanted to have a lot of special surprises… we wanted a funny element”. Pokémon from \"Red and Blue\" were the only ones to receive Alola forms—according to Ohmori, this was as a special surprise for long-time players and simply due to the older Pokémon being more recognizable. Following the trend between newer generations of the main series, designers of \"Sun and Moon\" focused on the motions on the full 3D models from \"X and Y\" in order to create livelier creatures.\n\nDespite the successes of \"Pokémon Go\", the developers stated that it did not affect the development of \"Sun and Moon\", although it did improve public awareness of the franchise in general and that they were working to develop interactivity between the app and the main series. Ohmori added that during the development of \"Sun and Moon\" they \"completely redesigned the system, and actually ended up pushing the 3DS even further to what [they] thought was the most [they] could draw out of it.\" With a team of around 120, the games took about three years to develop, comparable with other new-generation games. Later on, Kazumasa Iwao, who was responsible for the battle systems in \"Sun and Moon\", was recruited as director for \"Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon\".\n\nAccording to composer Junichi Masuda, who also was the producer, the soundtracks used in \"Sun and Moon\" were based off traditional Hawaiian music styles. However, while it utilizes their core rhythms, Alola's music utilized \"completely different\" melodies while still invoking a tropical island feel. On November 30, 2016 the \"Nintendo 3DS Pokémon Sun and Moon Super Music Complete\", a four-disk soundtrack containing 169 songs (160 from the games and 9 special) was released in Japan, with an international release of the soundtrack on iTunes at the same date as \"Pokémon Sun & Pokémon Moon: Super Music Collection\".\n\nOn February 25, 2016, the existence of the two games was leaked when Nintendo's trademarks for them were found on the website of the European Union Intellectual Property Office. \"IGN\" pointed towards the recent introduction of a new Pokémon, Magearna, as indication the two games would be revealed. The games were officially announced the following day in a Nintendo Direct presentation that also commemorated the franchise's 20th anniversary. The games launched with support for nine languages. On May 10, more information on the game was released through a new trailer, including new Pokémon, box art, and release dates. \"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" released in Japan, North America, and Australia on November 18, 2016, and in Europe on November 23, 2016. A comic based on \"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" launched alongside an edition of CoroCoro magazine on September 15, 2016. Early purchasers of the games received a special Munchlax holding Snorlium Z, enabling it to use an exclusive Z-Move unique to Snorlax, Munchlax's evolution, via wireless event distribution with their game. A Japanese trailer was unveiled on September 8, 2016. A \"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\"-themed New Nintendo 3DS XL was released on October 28, 2016.\n\nSimilar to \"Pokémon Omega Ruby\" and \"Alpha Sapphire\", a special demo was released on October 18, 2016. On October 27, 2016 during Nintendo's Financial Briefing, the demo was downloaded more than 3.5 million times, being the most popular and fastest \"selling\" demo in 3DS history. \"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" are the most pre-ordered games in Nintendo's history. The games were also the most anticipated 3DS releases in 2016, according to Nielsen Game Rank.\n\nDays before the games' release, the games' files were leaked over the internet, giving software pirates access to the full game, including online functions before the release. Nintendo took action against those who used the internet features afterward, banning those involved from not only using the online features of the game (even if playing the genuine release), but also from accessing other 3DS online services, such as the eShop and Miiverse. According to Nintendo of America, \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" are also the fastest-selling titles in Nintendo's history.\n\n\"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" received a score of 87/100 on Metacritic based on 84 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". This placed \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" as the 5th and 6th highest-rated 3DS games in 2016, and the 19th and 20th on the console of all time. The move from the gym system received widespread praise from critics, some of whom saw the change as a major step towards future developments of the franchise.\n\nJapanese magazine \"Famitsu\" gave the pair a 38/40 rating, lower than the 39/40 received by their predecessors \"X\" and \"Y\". Video game review site IGN gave the game a 9/10, and said that the games \"switch up the formula to create an engaging adventure that improves on its predecessors.\" Nintendo Life called them the best \"Pokémon\" games ever produced, commenting that \"every inch of Alola feels naturally formed and wonderfully organic\" and praising GameFreak for managing \"to carefully balance the inclusion of new mechanics without totally ruining things for the most hardcore fans\". Chris Tapsell of \"Eurogamer\" called the games \"the best generation in more than a decade\". The games earned an \"essential\" ranking from the site.\n\nThe games, however, received criticism for their story, with Justin Haywald of \"GameSpot\" remarking that the games' story was \"boring\" and eventually came \"to an abrupt, unfulfilling conclusion\" despite \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" excelling in terms of their core gameplay, while \"Polygon\" criticized the game's linear gameplay and lack of content beyond the primary storyline although the games had \"the most memorable Pokémon journey in years\".\n\nAs of September 30, 2018, \"Sun\" and \"Moon\" has sold 16.13 million copies, ranking them as the third-best-selling Nintendo 3DS titles behind both \"Mario Kart 7\" and \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\". During a GameStop Q3 earnings conference call, \"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" was said to have the most pre-orders for any video game in the last five years. It is GameStop's best-selling game of 2016, outselling \"\". On its first day of release, \"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" shipped 10 million units worldwide. The games sold over 1.9 million copies in Japan in its first three days on the market and are Nintendo's biggest game launch of all time in Europe, with the United Kingdom and France launches selling 368,000 and 450,000 copies respectively within a week out of the continent's 1.5 million sales. The European sales rose past the 2 million mark within the following week. In North America, the games sold over 3.7 million units in less than two weeks after initial release, climbing to 4.5 million by mid-January.\n\nOn June 6, 2017, two follow-up games for the 3DS \"Pokémon Ultra Sun\" and \"Ultra Moon\", were announced during a Nintendo Direct presentation. The games were released exclusively on the Nintendo 3DS on November 17, 2017 as the last of the franchise's handheld games, featured an alternate storyline set in \"Sun\" and \"Moon\"s world, and also featured Pokémon and locations not available in the original games. The version mascots, Solgaleo and Lunala, return with new forms adorned with black armor resembling the legendary Pokémon Necrozma. Later, it was revealed that these are actually new forms for Necrozma, known as \"Dusk Mane\" or \"Dawn Wings\", achieved through absorbing either of the two legendaries, in a similar fashion to Black/White Kyurem and Lusamine's mutated form. Amongst other new Pokémon, three new Ultra Beasts have been confirmed to appear - known initially as UB Assembly, UB Burst and UB Adhesive; later to be revealed as Stakataka, Blacephalon, and Poipole respectively.\n"}
{"id": "18311131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18311131", "title": "Privileged access", "text": "Privileged access\n\nIn the fields of epistemology and philosophy of mind, a person (the subject, the self) has privileged access to their own thoughts. This implies the subject has access to, and knows, their own thoughts (has self-knowledge) in such a way that others do not. Privileged access can be characterized in two ways:\n\n\nThe still prevailing traditional position argues each of us do in fact have privileged access to our own thoughts. Descartes is the paradigmatic proponent of such kind of view (even though \"privileged access\" is an anachronic label for his thesis):\n\nFor Descartes, we still have privileged access even in the doubt scenario. That is, for him we would retain self-knowledge even in those extreme situations in which we can't have knowledge about anything else.\n\nGilbert Ryle, on the other hand, maintains a diametrically opposed view. According to the behaviorism of Ryle, each of us knows our own thoughts in the same way we know other's thoughts. We only come to know the thoughts of others through their linguistic and bodily behaviors, and must do exactly the same in order to know our own thoughts. There is no privileged access. We only have access to what we think upon evidences supplied through our own actions.\n\n"}
{"id": "26838148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26838148", "title": "Progress zone", "text": "Progress zone\n\nThe progress zone is a layer of mesodermal cells immediately beneath the apical ectodermal ridge in the developing limb bud. The fate of the mesodermal cells is thought to be patterned by the length of time spent in the progress zone during limb outgrowth. However, some recent evidence using microinjected embryos suggests that the cells are prespecified early in limb bud development.\n\nThe progress zone acts as positional information to tell which cells to develop into the limb. If cells spend a very short time in this area as they receive signals from the ridge, then more proximal limb structures are not able to develop even if distal ones can. \n"}
{"id": "46391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46391", "title": "Ramsay MacDonald", "text": "Ramsay MacDonald\n\nJames Ramsay MacDonald, (\"né\" James McDonald Ramsay; 12 October 18669 November 1937) was a British statesman who was the first Labour Party politician to become Prime Minister, leading minority Labour governments in 1924 and in 1929–31. He headed a National Government from 1931 to 1935, dominated by the Conservative Party and supported by only a few Labour members. MacDonald was later vehemently denounced by and expelled from the party he had helped to found.\n\nMacDonald, along with Keir Hardie and Arthur Henderson, was one of the three principal founders of the Labour Party. He was chairman of the Labour MPs before 1914 and, after an eclipse in his career caused by his opposition to the First World War he was Leader of the Labour Party from 1922. The second Labour Government (1929–31) was dominated by the Great Depression. He formed the National Government to carry out spending cuts to defend the gold standard; the gold standard had to be abandoned after the Invergordon Mutiny and he called a general election in 1931 seeking a \"doctor's mandate\" to fix the economy. The National coalition won an overwhelming landslide and the Labour Party was reduced to a rump of around 50 seats in the House of Commons. His health deteriorated and he stood down as Prime Minister in 1935 and remained as Lord President of the Council until retiring in 1937. He died later that year.\n\nMacDonald's speeches, pamphlets and books made him an important theoretician. Historian John Shepherd states that, \"MacDonald's natural gifts of an imposing presence, handsome features and a persuasive oratory delivered with an arresting Highlands accent made him the iconic Labour leader.\" After 1931 MacDonald was repeatedly and bitterly denounced by the Labour movement as a traitor to their cause. Since the 1960s historians have defended his reputation, emphasising his earlier role in building up the Labour Party, dealing with the Great Depression, and as a forerunner of the political realignments of the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nMacDonald was born at Gregory Place, Lossiemouth, Morayshire, Scotland, the illegitimate son of John MacDonald, a farm labourer, and Anne Ramsay, a housemaid. Registered at birth as James McDonald (sic) Ramsay, he was known as Jaimie MacDonald. Illegitimacy could be a serious handicap in 19th century Presbyterian Scotland, but in the north and northeast farming communities, this was less of a problem; in 1868, a report of the Royal Commission on the Employment of Children, Young Persons and Women in Agriculture noted that the illegitimacy rate was around 15%, meaning that nearly every sixth person was born out of wedlock. MacDonald's mother had worked as a domestic servant at Claydale farm, near Alves, where his father was also employed. They were to have been married, but the wedding never took place, either because the couple quarrelled and chose not to marry, or because Anne's mother, Isabella Ramsay, stepped in to prevent her daughter from marrying a man she deemed unsuitable.\nRamsay MacDonald received an elementary education at the Free Church of Scotland school in Lossiemouth from 1872 to 1875, and then at Drainie parish school. He left school at the end of the summer term in 1881, at the age of 15, and began work on a nearby farm. In December 1881, he was appointed a pupil teacher at Drainie parish school. In 1885, he left to take up a position as an assistant to Mordaunt Crofton, a clergyman in Bristol who was attempting to establish a Boys' and Young Men's Guild at St Stephen's Church. It was in Bristol that Ramsay MacDonald joined the Democratic Federation, a Radical organisation. This federation changed its name a few months later to the Social Democratic Federation (SDF). He remained in the group when it left the SDF to become the Bristol Socialist Society. In early 1886 he moved to London.\n\nFollowing a short period of work addressing envelopes at the National Cyclists' Union in Fleet Street, he found himself unemployed and forced to live on the small amount of money he had saved from his time in Bristol. MacDonald eventually found employment as an invoice clerk in the warehouse of Cooper, Box and Co. During this time he was deepening his socialist credentials, and engaged himself energetically in C. L. Fitzgerald's Socialist Union which, unlike the SDF, aimed to progress socialist ideals through the parliamentary system. MacDonald witnessed the Bloody Sunday of 13 November 1887 in Trafalgar Square, and in response, had a pamphlet published by the \"Pall Mall Gazette\", entitled \"Remember Trafalgar Square: Tory Terrorism in 1887\".\n\nMacDonald retained an interest in Scottish politics. Gladstone's first Irish Home Rule Bill inspired the setting-up of a Scottish Home Rule Association in Edinburgh. On 6 March 1888, MacDonald took part in a meeting of London-based Scots, who, upon his motion, formed the London General Committee of the Scottish Home Rule Association. For a while he supported home rule for Scotland, but found little support among London's Scots. However, MacDonald never lost his interest in Scottish politics and home rule, in \"Socialism: critical and constructive\", published in 1921, he wrote: \"The Anglification of Scotland has been proceeding apace to the damage of its education, its music, its literature, its genius, and the generation that is growing up under this influence is uprooted from its past.\"\n\nPolitics in the 1880s was still of less importance to MacDonald than furthering his education. He took evening classes in science, botany, agriculture, mathematics, and physics at the Birkbeck Literary and Scientific Institution but his health suddenly failed him due to exhaustion one week before his examinations. This put an end to any thought of a scientific career. In 1888, MacDonald took employment as private secretary to Thomas Lough who was a tea merchant and a Radical politician. Lough was elected as the Liberal Member of Parliament (MP) for West Islington, in 1892. Many doors now opened to MacDonald: he had access to the National Liberal Club as well as the editorial offices of Liberal and Radical newspapers; he made himself known to various London Radical clubs among Radical and labour politicians. MacDonald gained valuable experience in the workings of electioneering. At the same time he left Lough's employment to branch out as a freelance journalist. Elsewhere as a member of the Fabian Society for some time, MacDonald toured and lectured on its behalf at the London School of Economics and elsewhere.\n\nThe Trades Union Congress had created the Labour Electoral Association (LEA) and entered into an unsatisfactory alliance with the Liberal Party in 1886. In 1892, MacDonald was in Dover to give support to the candidate for the LEA in the General Election who was well beaten. MacDonald impressed the local press and the Association and was adopted as its candidate, announcing that his candidature would be under a Labour Party banner. He denied the Labour Party was a wing of the Liberal Party but saw merit in a working political relationship. In May 1894, the local Southampton Liberal Association was trying to find a labour-minded candidate for the constituency. Two others joined MacDonald to address the Liberal Council: one was offered but turned down the invitation, while MacDonald failed to secure the nomination despite strong support among Liberals.\n\nIn 1893, Keir Hardie had formed the Independent Labour Party (ILP) which had established itself as a mass movement. In May 1894 MacDonald applied for membership, and was accepted. He was officially adopted as the ILP candidate for one of the Southampton seats on 17 July 1894 but was heavily defeated at the election of 1895. MacDonald stood for Parliament again in 1900 for one of the two Leicester seats and although he lost was generously accused of splitting the Liberal vote to allow the Conservative candidate to win. That same year he became Secretary of the Labour Representation Committee (LRC), the forerunner of the Labour Party, allegedly in part because many delegates confused him with prominent London trade unionist Jimmie MacDonald when they voted for \"Mr. James R. MacDonald\". MacDonald retained membership of the ILP; while it was not a Marxist organisation it was more rigorously socialist than the once and future Labour Party in which the ILP members would operate as a \"ginger group\" for many years.\n\nAs Party Secretary, MacDonald negotiated an agreement with the leading Liberal politician Herbert Gladstone (son of the late Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone), which allowed Labour to contest a number of working class seats without Liberal opposition, thus giving Labour its first breakthrough into the House of Commons. He married Margaret Ethel Gladstone, who was unrelated to the Gladstones of the Liberal Party, in 1896. Although not wealthy, Margaret MacDonald was comfortably off, and this allowed them to indulge in foreign travel, visiting Canada and the United States in 1897, South Africa in 1902, Australia and New Zealand in 1906 and India several times.\n\nIt was during this period that MacDonald and his wife began a long friendship with the social investigator and reforming civil servant Clara Collet with whom he discussed women's issues. She was an influence on MacDonald and other politicians in their attitudes towards women's rights. In 1901, he was elected to the London County Council for Finsbury Central as a joint Labour–Progressive Party candidate, but he was disqualified from the register in 1904 due to his absences abroad.\nIn 1906, the LRC changed its name to the \"Labour Party\", amalgamating with the ILP. In that same year, MacDonald was elected MP for Leicester along with 28 others, and became one of the leaders of the Parliamentary Labour Party. These Labour MPs undoubtedly owed their election to the 'Progressive Alliance' between the Liberals and Labour, a minor party supporting the Liberal governments of Henry Campbell-Bannerman and H. H. Asquith. MacDonald became the leader of the left wing of the party, arguing that Labour must seek to displace the Liberals as the main party of the left.\n\nIn 1911 MacDonald became Party Leader (formally \"Chairman of the Parliamentary Labour Party\"). He was the chief intellectual leader of the party, paying little attention to class warfare and much more to the emergence of a powerful state as it exemplified the Darwinian evolution of an ever more complex society. He was an Orthodox Edwardian progressive, keen on intellectual discussion, and adverse to agitation.\n\nWithin a short period his wife became ill with blood poisoning and died. This deeply and permanently affected MacDonald.\n\nMacDonald had always taken a keen interest in foreign affairs and knew from his visit to South Africa, just after the Boer War had ended, what the effects of modern conflict would be. Although the Parliamentary Labour Party generally held an anti-war opinion, when war was declared in August 1914, patriotism came to the fore. The Party supported the government in its request for £100,000,000 of war credits and, as MacDonald could not, he resigned the party Chairmanship. Arthur Henderson became the new leader while MacDonald took the party Treasurer's post. During the early part of the war he was extremely unpopular and was accused of treason and cowardice. Former Liberal Party MP and publisher Horatio Bottomley attacked him through his magazine \"John Bull\" in September 1915 by publishing an article carrying details of MacDonald's birth and his so-called deceit in not disclosing his real name. His illegitimacy was no secret and he had not seemed to have suffered by it, but according to the journal he had, by using a false name, gained access to parliament falsely and should suffer heavy penalties and have his election declared void. MacDonald received much internal support, but the way in which the disclosures were made public had affected him. He wrote in his diary:\n\n...I spent hours of terrible mental pain. Letters of sympathy began to pour in upon me... Never before did I know that I had been registered under the name of Ramsay, and cannot understand it now. From my earliest years my name has been entered in lists, like the school register, etc. as MacDonald.\n\nDespite opposition to the war, MacDonald visited the Western Front in December 1914 with the approval of Lord Kitchener. MacDonald and General Seeley set off for the front at Ypres and soon found themselves in the thick of an action in which both behaved with the utmost coolness. Later, MacDonald was received by the Commander-in-Chief at St Omer and made an extensive tour of the front. Returning home, he paid a public tribute to the courage of the French troops, but said nothing then or later of having been under fire himself.\n\nAs the war dragged on, his reputation recovered but he still lost his seat in the 1918 \"Coupon Election\", which saw the Liberal David Lloyd George's coalition government win a large majority.\n\nMacDonald stood for Parliament in the 1921 Woolwich East by-election and lost. In 1922, MacDonald was returned to the House as MP for Aberavon in Wales, With a vote of 14,318 against 11,111 and 5,328 for his main opponents. His rehabilitation was complete; the Labour \"New Leader\" magazine opined that his election was, \"enough in itself to transform our position in the House. We have once more a voice which must be heard.\"\n\nBy now, the party was reunited and MacDonald was re-elected as Leader. Historian Kenneth O. Morgan examines his newfound stature:\n\nAt the 1922 election, Labour replaced the Liberals as the main opposition party to the Conservative government of Stanley Baldwin, making MacDonald Leader of the Opposition. By now, he had moved away from the Labour left and abandoned the socialism of his youth: he strongly opposed the wave of radicalism that swept through the labour movement in the wake of the Russian Revolution of 1917 and became a determined enemy of Communism. Unlike the French Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party of Germany, the Labour Party did not split and the Communist Party of Great Britain remained small and isolated.\n\nMacDonald became noted for \"woolly\" rhetoric such as the occasion at the Labour Party Conference of 1930 at Llandudno when he appeared to imply unemployment could be solved by encouraging the jobless to return to the fields \"where they till and they grow and they sow and they harvest\". Equally, there were times it was unclear what his policies were. There was already some unease in the party about what he would do if Labour was able to form a government.\n\nAt the 1923 election, the Conservatives had lost their majority, and when they lost a vote of confidence in the House in January 1924 King George V called on MacDonald to form a minority Labour government, with the tacit support of the Liberals under Asquith from the corner benches. He became the first Labour Prime Minister, the first from a working-class background and one of the very few without a university education.\n\nMacDonald had never held office but demonstrated energy, executive ability, and political astuteness. He consulted widely within his party, making the Liberal Lord Haldane the Lord Chancellor, and Philip Snowden Chancellor of the Exchequer. He took the foreign office himself. Besides himself, ten other cabinet members came from working class origins, a dramatic breakthrough in British history. His first priority was to undo the perceived damage caused by the 1919 Treaty of Versailles, by settling the reparations issue and coming to terms with Germany. The king noted in his diary, \"He wishes to do the right thing... Today 23 years ago dear Grandmama died. I wonder what she would have thought of a Labour Government!\"\n\nWhile there were no major labour strikes during his term, MacDonald acted swiftly to end those that did erupt. When the Labour Party executive criticised the government, he replied that, \"public doles, Poplarism [local defiance of the national government], strikes for increased wages, limitation of output, not only are not Socialism, but may mislead the spirit and policy of the Socialist movement\". The Government lasted only nine months and did not have a majority in either House of the Parliament, but it was still able to support the unemployed with the extension of benefits and amendments to the Insurance Acts. In a personal triumph for John Wheatley, Minister for Health, a Housing Act was passed, which greatly expanded municipal housing for low paid workers.\n\nMacDonald had long been a leading spokesman for internationalism in the Labour movement; at first he verged on pacifism. He founded the Union of Democratic Control in early 1914 to promote international socialist aims, but it was overwhelmed by the war. His 1916 book, \"National Defence\", revealed his own long-term vision for peace. Although disappointed at the harsh terms of the Versailles Treaty, he supported the League of Nations – but by 1930 he felt that the internal cohesion of the British Empire and a strong, independent British defence programme might turn out to be the wisest British government policy.\n\nMacDonald moved in March 1924 to end construction work on the Singapore military base despite strong opposition from the Admiralty. He believed the building of the base would endanger the disarmament conference; the First Sea Lord Lord Beatty considered the absence of such a base as dangerously imperilling British trade and territories east of Aden and could mean the security of the British Empire in the Far East being dependent on the goodwill of Japan.\n\nIn June 1924, MacDonald convened a conference in London of the wartime Allies and achieved an agreement on a new plan for settling the reparations issue and French occupation of the Ruhr. German delegates joined the meeting, and the London Settlement was signed. It was followed by an Anglo-German commercial treaty. Another major triumph for MacDonald was the conference held in London in July and August 1924 to deal with the implementation of the Dawes Plan. MacDonald, who accepted the popular view of the economist John Maynard Keynes of German reparations as impossible to pay, pressured French Premier Édouard Herriot until many concessions were made to Germany.\n\nA British onlooker commented, \"The London Conference was for the French 'man in the street' one long Calvary ... as he saw M. Herriot abandoning one by one the cherished possessions of French preponderance on the Reparations Commission, the right of sanctions in the event of German default, the economic occupation of the Ruhr, the French-Belgian railroad Régie, and finally, the military occupation of the Ruhr within a year.\" MacDonald was proud of what had been achieved, which was the pinnacle of his short-lived administration's achievements. In September, he made a speech to the League of Nations Assembly in Geneva, the main thrust of which was for general European disarmament which was received with great acclaim.\n\nMacDonald recognised the Soviet Union and MacDonald informed Parliament in February 1924 that negotiations would begin to negotiate a treaty with the Soviet Union. The treaty was to cover Anglo-Soviet trade and the repayment of the British bondholders, who had lent billions to the pre-revolutionary Russian government and been rejected by the Bolsheviks. There were in fact two proposed treaties: one would cover commercial matters, and the other would cover a fairly vague future discussion on the problem of the bondholders. If the treaties were signed, the British government would conclude a further treaty and guarantee a loan to the Bolsheviks. The treaties were popular neither with the Conservatives nor with the Liberals, who, in September, criticised the loan so vehemently that negotiation with them seemed impossible. However, the Government's fate was determined by the \"Campbell Case\", the abrogation of prosecuting the left-wing newspaper the \"Workers' Weekly\" for inciting servicemen to mutiny. The Conservatives put down a censure motion, to which the Liberals added an amendment. MacDonald's Cabinet resolved to treat both motions as matters of confidence. The Liberal amendment was carried, and the King granted MacDonald a dissolution of Parliament the following day. The issues that dominated the election campaign were the Campbell case and the Russian treaties which soon combined into the single issue of the Bolshevik threat.\n\nOn 25 October 1924, just four days before the election, the \"Daily Mail\" reported that a letter had come into its possession which purported to be a letter sent from Grigory Zinoviev, the President of the Communist International, to the British representative on the Comintern Executive. The letter was dated 15 September and so before the dissolution of parliament; it stated that it was imperative for the agreed treaties between Britain and the Bolsheviks to be ratified urgently. The letter said that those Labour members who could apply pressure on the government should do so. It went on to say that a resolution of the relationship between the two countries would \"assist in the revolutionising of the international and British proletariat ... make it possible for us to extend and develop the ideas of Leninism in England and the Colonies\". The government had received the letter before the publication in the newspapers and had protested to the Bolsheviks' London chargé d'affaires and had already decided to make public the contents of the letter with details of the official protest but had not been swift-footed enough. Historians mostly agree the letter was a forgery, but it closely reflected attitudes current in the Comintern. In any case, it had little impact on the Labour vote, which actually increased. It was the collapse of the Liberal Party that led to the Conservative landslide. However, many Labourites for years blamed their defeat on the Letter by misunderstanding the political forces at work. Despite all that had gone on, the result of the election was not disastrous for Labour. The Conservatives were returned decisively gaining 155 seats for a total of 413 members of parliament. Labour lost 40 seats but held on to 151. The Liberals lost 118 seats (leaving them with only 40) and their vote fell by over a million. The real significance of the election was that the Liberals, whom Labour had displaced as the second largest political party in 1922, were now clearly the third party.\n\nThe strong majority held by the Conservatives gave Baldwin a full term during which the government had to deal with the 1926 General Strike. Unemployment remained high but relatively stable at just over 10% and, apart from 1926, strikes were at a low level. At the May 1929 election, Labour won 288 seats to the Conservatives' 260, with 59 Liberals under Lloyd George holding the balance of power. MacDonald was increasingly out of touch with his supposedly safe Welsh seat at Aberavon; he largely ignored the district, and had little time or energy to help with its increasingly difficult problems regarding coal disputes, strikes, unemployment and poverty. The miners expected a wealthy man who would fund party operations, but he had no money. He disagreed with the increasingly radical activism of party leaders in the district, as well as the permanent agent, and the South Wales Mineworkers' Federation. He moved to Seaham Harbour in County Durham, a safer seat, in order to avoid a highly embarrassing defeat.\n\nBaldwin resigned and MacDonald again formed a minority government, at first with Lloyd George's cordial support. This time MacDonald knew he had to concentrate on domestic matters. Arthur Henderson became Foreign Secretary, with Snowden again at the Exchequer. JH Thomas became Lord Privy Seal with a mandate to tackle unemployment, assisted by the young radical Oswald Mosley. MacDonald appointed the first ever woman cabinet minister Margaret Bondfield as Minister of Labour.\n\nMacDonald's second government was in a stronger parliamentary position than his first, and in 1930 he was able to raise unemployment pay, pass an act to improve wages and conditions in the coal industry (i.e. the issues behind the General Strike) and pass a housing act which focused on slum clearances. However, an attempt by the Education Minister Charles Trevelyan to introduce an act to raise the school-leaving age to 15 was defeated by opposition from Roman Catholic Labour MPs, who feared that the costs would lead to increasing local authority control over faith schools.\n\nIn international affairs, he also convened a conference in London with the leaders of the Indian National Congress, at which he offered responsible government, but not independence, to India. In April 1930 he negotiated a treaty limiting naval armaments with the United States and Japan.\n\nMacDonald's government had no effective response to the economic crisis which followed the Stock Market Crash of 1929. Philip Snowden was a rigid exponent of orthodox finance and would not permit any deficit spending to stimulate the economy, despite the urgings of Oswald Mosley, David Lloyd George and the economist John Maynard Keynes. Mosley put forward a memorandum in January 1930, calling for the public control of imports and banking as well as an increase in pensions to boost spending power. When this was repeatedly turned down, Mosley resigned from the government in February 1931 and formed the New Party. He later converted to Fascism.\n\nBy the end of 1930, unemployment had doubled to over two and a half million. The government struggled to cope with the crisis and found itself attempting to reconcile two contradictory aims: achieving a balanced budget to maintain the pound on the Gold standard, and maintaining assistance to the poor and unemployed, at a time when tax revenues were falling. During 1931 the economic situation deteriorated, and pressure from orthodox economists for sharp cuts in government spending increased. Under pressure from its Liberal allies as well as the Conservative opposition who feared that the budget was unbalanced, Snowden appointed a committee headed by Sir George May to review the state of public finances. The May Report of July 1931 urged large public-sector wage cuts and large cuts in public spending (notably in payments to the unemployed) to avoid a budget deficit.\n\nAlthough there was a narrow majority in the Cabinet for drastic reductions in spending, the minority included senior ministers such as Arthur Henderson who made it clear they would resign rather than acquiesce in the cuts. With this unworkable split, on 24 August 1931 MacDonald submitted his resignation and then agreed, on the urging of King George V to form a National Government with the Conservatives and Liberals. With Henderson taking the lead, MacDonald, Snowden, and Thomas were quickly expelled from the Labour Party. They responded by forming a new National Labour group, which provided a nominal party base for the expelled MPs but received little support in the country or the unions. Great anger in the labour movement greeted MacDonald's move. Riots took place in protest in Glasgow and Manchester. Many in the Labour Party viewed this as a cynical move by MacDonald to rescue his career, and accused him of 'betrayal'. MacDonald, however, argued that the sacrifice was for the common good.\n\nIn the 1931 general election, the National Government won 554 seats, comprising 473 Conservatives, 13 National Labour, 68 Liberals (Liberal National and Liberal) and various others, while Labour, now led by Arthur Henderson won only 52 and the Lloyd George Liberals four. Henderson and his deputy J. R. Clynes both lost their seats in Labour's worst-ever rout. Labour's disastrous performance at the 1931 election greatly increased the bitterness felt by MacDonald's former colleagues towards him. MacDonald was genuinely upset to see the Labour Party so badly defeated at the election. He had regarded the National Government as a temporary measure, and had hoped to return to the Labour Party.\n\nThe National Government's huge majority left MacDonald with the largest mandate ever won by a British Prime Minister at a democratic election, but MacDonald had only a small following of National Labour men in Parliament. He was ageing rapidly, and was increasingly a figurehead. In control of domestic policy were Conservatives Stanley Baldwin as Lord President and Neville Chamberlain the chancellor of the exchequer, together with National Liberal Walter Runciman at the Board of Trade. MacDonald, Chamberlain and Runciman devised a compromise tariff policy, which stopped short of protectionism while ending free trade and, at the 1932 Ottawa Conference, cementing commercial relations within the Commonwealth.\n\nBesides his preference for a cohesive British Empire and a protective tariff, he felt an independent British defence programme would be the wisest policy. However, budget pressures and a strong popular pacifist sentiment, forced a reduction in the military and naval budgets. MacDonald involved himself heavily in foreign policy. Assisted by the National Liberal leader and Foreign Secretary John Simon, he continued to lead British delegations to international conferences, including the Geneva Disarmament Conference and the Lausanne Conference in 1932, and the Stresa Conference in 1935. He went to Rome in March 1933 in order to facilitate Nazi Germany's return to the concert of European powers and to continue the policy of appeasement. On 16 August 1932 he granted the Communal Award upon India, partitioning it into separate electorates for Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Untouchables. Most important of all, he presided at the world economic conference in London in June 1933. Nearly every nation was represented, but no agreement was possible. The American president torpedoed the conference with a bombshell message that the US would not stabilise the depreciating dollar. The failure marked the end of international economic co-operation for another decade.\n\nMacDonald was deeply affected by the anger and bitterness caused by the fall of the Labour government. He continued to regard himself as a true Labour man, but the rupturing of virtually all his old friendships left him an isolated figure. One of the only other leading Labour figures to join the government, Philip Snowden, was a firm believer in free trade and resigned from the government in 1932 following the introduction of tariffs after the Ottawa agreement.\n\nBy 1933 MacDonald's health was so poor that his doctor had to personally supervise his trip to Geneva. By 1934 MacDonald's mental and physical health declined further, and he became an increasingly ineffective leader as the international situation grew more threatening. His speeches in Commons and at international meetings became incoherent. One observer noted how \"Things ... got to the stage where nobody knew what the Prime Minister was going to say in the House of Commons, and, when he did say it, nobody understood it\". Newspapers did not report MacDonald denying to reporters that he was seriously ill because he only had \"loss of memory\". His pacifism, which had been widely admired in the 1920s, led Winston Churchill and others to accuse him of failure to stand up to the threat of Adolf Hitler. His government began the negotiations for the Anglo-German Naval Agreement. MacDonald was aware of his fading powers, and in 1935 he agreed to a timetable with Baldwin to stand down as Prime Minister after George V's Silver Jubilee celebrations in May 1935. He resigned on 7 June in favour of Baldwin, and remained in the cabinet, taking the largely honorary post of Lord President vacated by Baldwin.\n\nAfter Hitler's re-militarisation of the Rhineland in 1936, MacDonald declared that he was \"pleased\" that the Treaty of Versailles was \"vanishing\", expressing his hope that the French had been taught a \"severe lesson\".\n\nAt the 1935 election MacDonald was defeated at Seaham by Emanuel Shinwell. Shortly after he was elected at a by-election in January 1936 for the Combined Scottish Universities seat, but his physical and mental health collapsed in 1936. King George V died a week before voting began in the Scottish by-election and MacDonald deeply mourned his death, paying tribute to him in his diary as \"a gracious and kingly friend whom I have served with all my heart\". There had been a genuine mutual affection between the two; the King is said to have regarded MacDonald as his favourite prime minister.\n\nA sea voyage was recommended to restore MacDonald's health, but he died on board the liner at sea on 9 November 1937, aged 71 when with his youngest daughter Sheila. His funeral was in Westminster Abbey on 26 November. After cremation, his ashes were buried alongside his wife Margaret at Spynie in his native Morayshire.\n\nFor half a century, MacDonald was demonised by the Labour Party as a turncoat who consorted with the enemy and drove the Labour Party to its nadir. In the last quarter century, however, scholarly opinion has raised his status as an important founder and leader of the Labour Party, and a man who held Britain together during its darkest economic times.\n\nMacDonald's expulsion from Labour along with his National Labour Party's coalition with the Conservatives, combined with the decline in his physical and mental powers after 1931, left him a discredited figure at the time of his death, destined to receive years of unsympathetic treatment from generations of Labour-inclined British historians. The events of 1931, with the downfall of the Labour government and his coalition with the Conservatives, led to MacDonald becoming one of the most reviled figures in the history of the Labour Party, with many of his former supporters accusing him of betraying the party he had helped create. Lachlan MacNeill Weir, MacDonald's former parliamentary private secretary, published the first major biography \"The Tragedy of Ramsay MacDonald\" in 1938. Weir demonised MacDonald for obnoxious careerism, class betrayal and treachery. Clement Attlee in his autobiography \"As it Happened\" (1954) called MacDonald's decision to abandon the Labour government in 1931 \"the greatest betrayal in the political history of the country\". The coming of war in 1939 led to a search for the politicians who had appeased Hitler and failed to prepare Britain; MacDonald was grouped among the \"Guilty Men\".\n\nBy the 1960s, while union activists maintained their hostile attitude, scholars wrote with more appreciation of his challenges and successes. Finally in 1977 he received a long scholarly biography that historians have judged to be \"definitive.\" Labour MP David Marquand, a trained historian who later became a professor of politics, wrote \"Ramsay MacDonald\" with the stated intention of giving MacDonald his due for his work in founding and building the Labour Party, and in trying to preserve peace in the years between the two world wars. He argued also to place MacDonald's fateful decision in 1931 in the context of the crisis of the times and the limited choices open to him. Marquand praised the prime minister's decision to place national interests before that of party in 1931. He also emphasised MacDonald's lasting intellectual contribution to socialism and his pivotal role in transforming Labour from an outside protest group to an inside party of government.\n\nScholarly analysis about the economic decisions taken in the inter-war period such as the return to the Gold Standard in 1925, and MacDonald's desperate efforts to defend it in 1931, has changed. Robert Skidelsky, in his classic account of the 1929–31 government, \"Politicians and the Slump\" (1967), compared the orthodox policies advocated by leading politicians of both parties unfavourably with the more radical, proto-Keynesian measures proposed by David Lloyd George and Oswald Mosley. But in the preface to the 1994 edition Skidelsky argued that recent experience of currency crises and capital flight made it hard to be critical of politicians who wanted to achieve stability by cutting labour costs and defending the value of the currency. In 2004 Marquand advanced a similar argument:\nIn the harsher world of the 1980s and 1990s it was no longer obvious that Keynes was right in 1931 and the bankers wrong. Pre-Keynesian orthodoxy had come in from the cold. Politicians and publics had learned anew that confidence crises feed on themselves; that currencies can collapse; that the public credit can be exhausted; that a plummeting currency can be even more painful than deflationary expenditure cuts; and that governments which try to defy the foreign exchange markets are apt to get their—and their countries'—fingers burnt. Against that background MacDonald's response to the 1931 crisis increasingly seemed not just honourable and consistent, but right ... he was the unacknowledged precursor of the Blairs, the Schröders, and the Clintons of the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nRamsay MacDonald married Margaret Ethel Gladstone (no relation to 19th-century Prime Minister William Gladstone) in 1896. The marriage was a very happy one, and they had six children, including Malcolm MacDonald (1901–81), who had a distinguished career as a politician, colonial governor and diplomat, and Ishbel MacDonald (1903–82), who was very close to her father. Another son, Alister Gladstone MacDonald (1898–1993) was a conscientious objector in the First World War, serving in the Friends' Ambulance Unit; he became a prominent architect who worked on promoting the planning policies of his father's government, and specialised in cinema design. MacDonald was devastated by Margaret's death from blood poisoning in 1911, and had few significant personal relationships after that time, apart from with Ishbel, who cared for him for the rest of his life. Following his wife's death, MacDonald commenced a relationship with Lady Margaret Sackville.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s he was frequently entertained by the society hostess Lady Londonderry, which was much disapproved of in the Labour Party since her husband was a Conservative cabinet minister.\n\nMacDonald's unpopularity in the country following his stance against Britain's involvement in the First World War spilled over into his private life. In 1916, he was expelled from Moray Golf Club in Lossiemouth for supposedly bringing the club into disrepute because of his pacifist views. The manner of his expulsion was regretted by some members but an attempt to re-instate him by a vote in 1924 failed. However, a Special General Meeting held in 1929 finally voted for his reinstatement. By this time, MacDonald was Prime Minister for the second time. He felt the initial expulsion very deeply and refused to take up the final offer of membership.\n\nIn 1930, MacDonald was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) under Statute 12. He was awarded honorary Doctor of Laws (LLD) degrees by the universities of Wales, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Oxford,The GEORGE Washington University , University and McGill.\n\nThe novel Fame is the Spur (1940) by Howard Spring is thought to be based on the life of MacDonald. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26421895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26421895", "title": "Retrograde tracing", "text": "Retrograde tracing\n\nRetrograde tracing is a research method used in neuroscience to trace neural connections from their point of termination (the synapse) to their source (the cell body). Retrograde tracing techniques allow for detailed assessment of neuronal connections between a target population of neurons and their inputs throughout the nervous system. These techniques allow the \"mapping\" of connections between neurons in a particular structure (e.g. the eye) and the target neurons in the brain. The opposite technique is anterograde tracing, which is used to trace neural connections from their source to their point of termination (i.e. from cell body to synapse). Both the anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques are based on the visualization of axonal transport.\n\nRetrograde tracing can be achieved through various means, including the use of viral strains as markers of a cell’s connectivity to the injection site. The pseudorabies virus (PRV; Bartha strain), for example, may be used as a suitable tracer due to the propensity of the infection to spread upstream through a pathway of synaptically linked neurons, thus revealing the nature of their circuitry.\n\nRabies has been shown to be effective for this system of circuit tracing because of its low level of damage to infected cells, specificity of infecting only neurons, and strict limitation of viral spread between neurons to synaptic regions. These factors allow for highly specific traces that can reveal individual neuronal connections in a circuit without inflicting physical damage on the cells.\n\nAnother technique involves injecting special \"beads\" into the brain nuclei of anaesthetized animals. The animals are allowed to survive for a few days and then euthanized. The cells in the origin of projection are visualized through an inverted fluorescence microscope.\n\nA specialist technique was developed by Wickersham and colleagues, which employed a modified rabies virus. This virus was capable of infecting a single cell and jumping across one synapse; this allowed the researchers to investigate the local connectivity of neurons.\n\nAfter being taken up at the synaptic terminal or axon of the target neuron, the rabies virus is enveloped in a vesicle which is transported towards the cell body via axonal dynein. In the wildtype rabies virus, the virus will continue to replicate and spread throughout the central nervous system until it has systemically infected the entire brain. Deletion of the gene encoding glycoprotein (G protein) in rabies limits the spread of the virus strictly to cells that were initially infected. Transsynaptic spread of the virus can be limited to monosynaptic transmission to a neuron of origin by pseudotyping the G protein and putting the gene under Cre-control. This viral spread can be visualized through methods including addition of a fluorescence gene such as green fluorescent protein onto the viral cassette or through immunohistochemistry.\n\nA member of the herpesviridae family, the pseudorabies virus spreads through the CNS in both a retrograde and anterograde fashion, moving up the neural axon into the soma and dendrites in the retrograde application. Deletion of three key membrane protein genes in the PRV-Bartha strain of pseudorabies blocks anterograde spread of the virus and allows for additional manipulations to the viral DNA such as fluorescence to be added, allowing for retrograde circuit tracing.\n\nFluoro-Gold, also known as hydroxystilbamidine, is a non-viral fluorescent retrograde tracer whose movement up the axon and across the dendritic tree can be visualized via fluorescent microscopy or immunohistochemistry.\n\n\nRetrograde tracing has been extensively used in a broad array of neuroscience studies, including the following examples:\n"}
{"id": "4509374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4509374", "title": "Robert Adams (architect)", "text": "Robert Adams (architect)\n\nRobert Adams (1540–1595) was a 16th-century English architect, engraver and surveyor of buildings to Queen Elizabeth. He was a son of Clement Adams.\n\nNone of Robert Adams' architectural works are known to have survived, but some of his plans and engravings are still extant, such as a large 1588 plan of Middleburgh and, from the same year, a small parchment roll, drawn with pen, entitled \"Thamesis Descriptio\", which shows lines drawn across the River Thames and the various ranges of guns at different points from Tilbury Fort to London. Adams also drew and engraved representations of the Spanish Armada's activities on the British coasts, which were published by Augustine Ryther in 1589.\n\nRobert Adams died in his 55th year and was buried in the church at Greenwich, where the following inscription was placed to his memory:\n\n"}
{"id": "2118060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118060", "title": "Robert O'Hara Burke", "text": "Robert O'Hara Burke\n\nRobert O'Hara Burke (6 May 1821c. 28 June 1861) was an Irish soldier and police officer who achieved fame as an Australian explorer. He was the leader of the ill-fated Burke and Wills expedition, which was the first expedition to cross Australia from south to north, finding a route across the continent from the settled areas of Victoria to the Gulf of Carpentaria. The expedition party was well equipped, but Burke was not experienced in bushcraft. A Royal Commission report conducted upon the failure of the expedition was a censure of Burke's judgement.\n\nBurke was born in St Clerens, County Galway, Ireland in May 1821. He was the second of three sons of James Hardiman Burke (1788 – January 1854), an officer in the British army 7th Royal Fusiliers, and Anne Louisa Burke \"nee\" O'Hara (married 1817, d.1844).\n\nRobert O'Hara was one of seven children;\n\nJames Thomas Burke was a Lieutenant in the Royal Engineers, and on 7 July 1854 at the battle of Giurgevo became the first British officer killed in the Crimean war.\n\nBurke entered the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich in May 1835. In December 1836 he failed his probationary exam and went to Belgium to further his education. In 1841, at the age of twenty he entered the Austrian army and in August 1842 was promoted to Second Lieutenant in the Prince Regent's 7th Reuss Regiment of the Hungarian Hussars. He spent most of his time in the Imperial Austrian Army posted to northern Italy and in April 1847 was promoted to 1st Lieutenant. Towards the end of 1847 he suffered health problems and went to Recoaro spa in northern Italy, then Gräfenberg (now Lázně Jeseník) and finally Aachen before resigning from the Austrian army in June 1848 after charges against him relating to debts and absence without leave were dropped.\n\nAfter returning to Ireland in 1848, he joined the Irish Constabulary (later the Royal Irish Constabulary). He did his cadet training at Phoenix Park Depot in Dublin between November 1849 and January 1850, was promoted to 3rd Class Sub-Inspector and stationed in County Kildare. At the end of 1850 he transferred to the Mounted Police in Dublin.\n\nBurke migrated to Australia in 1853. He left Queenstown, County Cork on 24 November 1852 on the S.S. \"Rodney\" which was carrying 342 convicts. He arrived in Hobart, Tasmania on 12 February 1853 and promptly sailed for Melbourne. On 1 April 1853 he joined the recently established Victoria police force. Initially he worked as Acting Inspector under the Chief Commissioner William Henry Fancourt Mitchell in the Parish of Jika Jika in the northern suburbs of Melbourne, but on 1 November 1853 he was appointed a magistrate, promoted to Police Inspector, and was posted to Carlsruhe. On 31 December 1853 he was promoted to District Inspector of the Ovens District and early in 1854 he moved to Beechworth to relieve Inspector John Giles Price.\n\nAfter the death of his brother, James Thomas, in the Crimean War, Burke decided to enlist. He left Australia on the S.S. \"Marco Polo\" on 25 March 1856 for England, but, by the time he arrived in Liverpool in June, peace had been declared and the war ended. Burke re-boarded the \"Marco Polo\" and returned to Victoria, arriving in Melbourne on 2 December 1856.\n\nHe resumed his posting at Beechworth and from there attended the \"Buckland Valley\" riots near Bright against the Chinese gold miners in 1857. In November 1858 he was transferred to Castlemaine as Police Superintendent on £550 p.a. plus a groom and quarters at \"Broadoaks\" on Gingell Street.\n\nAfter the South Australian explorer, John McDouall Stuart had reached the centre of Australia, the South Australian parliament offered a reward of £2,000 for the promotion of an expedition to cross the continent from south to north, generally following Stuart's route. He also partnered with another explorer who wanted to discover things about Australia.\n\nIn June 1860, Burke was appointed to lead the Victorian Exploring Expedition with William John Wills, his third-in-command, as surveyor and astronomical observer.\n\nThe expedition left Melbourne on Monday, 20 August 1860 with a total of 19 men, 27 camels and 23 horses. They reached Menindee on 23 September 1860 where several people resigned, including the second-in-command, George James Landells and the medical officer, Dr. Hermann Beckler.\n\nCooper Creek, 400 miles further on, was reached on 11 November 1860 by the advance group, the remainder being intended to catch up. After a break, Burke decided to make a dash to the Gulf of Carpentaria, leaving on 16 December 1860. William Brahe was left in charge of the remaining party. The small team of Burke, William Wills, John King and Charley Gray reached the mangroves on the estuary of the Flinders River, near where the town of Normanton now stands, on 9 February 1861. Flooding rains and swamps meant they never saw open ocean.\n\nAlready weakened by starvation and exposure, progress on the return journey was slow and hampered by the tropical monsoon downpours of the wet season. Gray died four days before they reached the rendezvous at Cooper Creek.\nThe other three rested for a day when they buried him.\nThey eventually reached the rendezvous point on 21 April 1861, 9 hours after the rest of the party had given up waiting and left, leaving a note and some food, as they had not been relieved by the party supposed to be returning from Menindee.\nThey attempted to reach Mount Hopeless, the furthest outpost of pastoral settlement in South Australia, which was closer than Menindee, but failed and returned to Cooper Creek. While waiting for rescue Wills died of exhaustion and starvation. Soon after, Burke also died, at a place now called Burke's Waterhole on Cooper Creek in South Australia. The exact date of Burke's death is uncertain, but has generally been accepted to be 28 June 1861.\n\nKing survived with the help of Aborigines until he was rescued in September by Alfred William Howitt. Howitt buried Burke and Wills before returning to Melbourne. In 1862 Howitt returned to Cooper Creek and disinterred Burke and Wills' bodies, taking them first to Adelaide and then by steamer to Melbourne where they were laid in state for two weeks. On 23 January 1863 Burke and Wills received a State Funeral and were buried in Melbourne General Cemetery. On that day Stuart and his companions, having successfully completed the south-north crossing, were received back at a large ceremony in Adelaide.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58348103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58348103", "title": "Sentence embedding", "text": "Sentence embedding\n\nSentence embedding is the collective name for a set of techniques in natural language processing (NLP) where sentences are mapped to vectors of real numbers\n\nSentence embedding is used by the machine learning software libraries PyTorch and TensorFlow\n\nA way of testing sentence encodings is to apply them on Sentences Involving Compositional Knowledge (SICK) corpus\nfor both entailment (SICK-E) and relatedness (SICK-R).\n\nIn the best results are obtained using a BiLSTM network trained on the Stanford Natural Language Inference (SNLI) Corpus. The Pearson correlation coefficient for SICK-R is 0.885 and the result for SICK-E is 86.3. A slight improvement over previous scores is presented in : SICK-R: 0.888 and SICK-E: 87.8 using a concatenation of bidirectional Gated recurrent unit.\n\n\nInferSent sentence embeddings and training code\n\nLearning General Purpose Distributed Sentence Representations via Large Scale Multi-task Learning\n"}
{"id": "25188543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25188543", "title": "Serpent Men", "text": "Serpent Men\n\nSerpent Men are a fictional race created by Robert E. Howard for his King Kull tales. They first appeared in \"The Shadow Kingdom,\" published in \"Weird Tales\" in August 1929.\n\nThey were later adapted for the Marvel Comics Conan comics by Roy Thomas and Marie Severin. Their first Marvel Universe appearance was in \"Kull the Conqueror\" vol. 1 #2 (September, 1971).\n\nIn Robert E. Howard's King Kull stories, the serpent people worship a god known as the Great Serpent. Later writers would identify the Great Serpent with the Great Old One Yig and with the Stygian serpent god Set from Howard's Conan stories.\n\nThe Serpent Men were created untold aeons ago by the Great Serpent. At some point, the Serpent Men had a cultural split, with one group becoming the Man-Serpents. One Man-Serpent is the titular being in the Conan story \"The God in the Bowl\".\n\nThe seat of the First Empire of the Serpent People, during the Paleozoic era, is Valusia. Valusia is a fictional country in the Kull stories of Robert E. Howard and his stories tell, among other things, of the Serpent Men trying to conquer the world once again, around 20,000 years ago, where Kull from Atlantis reigned over the Valusia Kingdom, located on the west coast of the main continent of Thuria. The ancient Serpent Empire was based on sorcery and alchemy, but collapsed with the rise of the dinosaurs about 225 million years ago during the Triassic era. The Serpent Men originally ruled over humans in Valusia, but were defeated and almost wiped out in humanity's battle for survival against the \"elder things\" which predated them. Over time, humans dominated Valusia and the Serpent Men became a legend. The Serpent Men, one of the few surviving \"elder things\", infiltrated human society and ruled from behind the scenes for a time, but were again discovered, defeated, and cast out in a secret war. However, they later repeated this tactic. Soon, they added the front of a Snake Cult religion, which gained power and influence within Valusia while the Serpent Men used their abilities of disguise to murder or replace each reigning monarch. Their power is eventually broken by King Kull, formerly an Atlantean barbarian who had recently conquered Valusia, and the Pict Brule the Spear-Slayer, whose society was aware of the Serpent Men's infiltration.\n\nAfter the destruction of Valusia, the Serpent Men escaped to Yoth, a cavern beneath K'n-yan in North America (ironically, the Pictish Isles of the Kull stories). They built subterranean cities, of which only ruins remain in the modern age. Explorers from K'n-yan visited Yoth frequently to learn more of the Serpent Men's scientific lore. Their next downfall came when they brought idols of Tsathoggua from N'kai and abandoned their patron deity Yig to worship their new god. As retribution, Yig placed his curse upon them and forced the few remaining worshipers to flee into a series of caverns beneath Mount Voormithadreth. \n\nSerpent Men are humanoids with scaled skin and snake-like heads. They possess magical abilities, the most common of which is the use of illusion to disguise themselves as a human. In some stories, the ghost of someone killed by a Serpent Man becomes the Serpent Man's slave. Due to the shape of their mouths, Serpent Men cannot utter the phrase \"Ka nama kaa lajerama.\" Howard's character Kull uses the phrase as a shibboleth in the story \"The Shadow Kingdom\".\n\nThese creatures, unlike their kin and predecessors, have the bodies of giant serpents and the heads of human beings, with smaller snakes for hair like Medusa. Man-Serpents have hypnotic gazes and lethally venomous bites, as well as terrible crushing strength.\n\nLin Carter and Clark Ashton Smith adapted the race for inclusion in the Cthulhu Mythos, inspired by H. P. Lovecraft's short story \"The Nameless City\", which refers to an Arabian city built by a pre-human reptilian race. Lovecraft's story \"The Haunter of the Dark\" explicitly mentions the \"serpent men of Valusia\" as being one-time possessors of the Shining Trapezohedron. However, the Cthulhu Mythos was already connected to the works of Robert E. Howard (a contemporary and correspondent of H. P. Lovecraft as well as a direct contributor to the Mythos itself). In this case, the Serpent Men were created for the very first Kull story. The character of Kull later made an appearance in a Bran Mak Morn story, \"Kings of the Night\", while in another such story, \"Worms of the Earth\", Bran Mak Morn explicitly refers to Cthulhu and R'lyeh. Many Conan stories written by Howard are also part of the Mythos.\n\nThe fictional settings of King Kull and Robert E. Howard's other creation, Conan the Barbarian, are linked through Howard's essay \"The Hyborian Age\". This states that Valusia, and its Thurian Age, existed in some time before Conan's Hyborian Age (the land was reshaped in between the story cycles by an undefined cataclysm). The Serpent Men didn't, however, appear in any Conan story written by Robert E. Howard himself.\nThey made a reappearance in \"Shadows in the Skull\" by L. Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter, the last of the stories collected in \"Conan of Aquilonia\". In that story, Conan encounters a colony of Serpent Men hiding out in what would correspond to South Africa - the last allies remaining to Conan's archenemy, the sorcerer Thoth-Amon, after Conan eliminated all of his human allies. These are in fact Serpent Women, who magically show an alluring female appearance to Conan and his followers and seek to trap them while Thoth-Amon looks on from hiding. The deception is discovered by Conan's teenage son Conn, who seeks a tryst with what seems a beautiful girl - but her reflection in a burnished shield shows her true serpent head. Conan and Conn then settle accounts with Thoth-Amon while their soldiers fight and kill the Serpent Women.\n\nIn \"The Temple of Abomination\" - written by Howard and completed by Richard L. Tierney - the Irish pirate Cormac Mac Art encounters a single Serpent Man still dominating a sinister temple in a forsaken corner of King Arthur's Britain.\n\nSerpent-Men have also appeared in Marvel Comics. They first appeared in \"Kull the Conqueror\" #2 and were adapted by Roy Thomas and Marie Severin. Since then, they have been imported into the Conan comics, as well as other adaptations and Conan pastiches.\n\nThe original Serpent Men were a race of reptilian semi-humanoids, who were created by the demon Set and ruled areas of prehistoric Earth. Due to the efforts of Kull and Conan, the original Serpent-Men became extinct about 8,000 years ago. However, since then, numerous human worshipers of Set and his demonic progeny such as Sligguth have taken on reptilian characteristics to different extents. Some, like the people of Starkesboro, are only partially transformed. Others become hosts for the spirits of long-extinct original Serpent Men, who transform their bodies into duplicates of their own, complete with their power to take the form of any human.\n\nSome modern Serpent Men encountered Spider-Man in the modern era. A Serpent Man passed himself off as the ghost of Uncle Ben to be part of an illusion that Spider-Man ascended into Heaven. To gain Spider-Man's trust, a Serpent Man posed as Devil-Slayer to attack the Serpent-Men. After Spider-Man experienced some memories about Kull, the Devil-Slayer imposter took Spider-Man to the cave where the Spider People resided and Spider-Man lifted the statue of the Spider God Omm (who was fooled into thinking that Spider-Man was one of his own due to his radioactive blood) after a fight with the Spider People. Once in the sewers, Spider-Man was duped by the Devil-Slayer imposter where they encountered the Defenders members Doctor Strange, Clea, Gargoyle, Hulk, Namor, and Valkyrie. When Spider-Man asks the Defenders to pronounce the words on the card, they could not and the Serpent Men shed their disguises. After destroying the statue, Spider-Man freed the Defenders (which had the true Devil-Slayer among them) as Doctor Strange banished the Serpent Men to Limbo. The human followers of the Serpent-Men were allowed to leave unmolested.\n\nRussel Daboia is a Serpent Man/demon hybrid that fought the Avengers alongside Nicholas Scratch and the Salem's Seven.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "889832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889832", "title": "Star City, Russia", "text": "Star City, Russia\n\nStar City (, \"Zvyozdny gorodok\") is a common name of an area in Moscow Oblast, Russia, which has since the 1960s been home to the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center (GCTC). Officially, the area was known as \"closed military townlet No. 1\" and at various times had also been designated as Shchyolkovo-14 () and Zvyozdny ().\nCosmonauts of the Russian Federal Space Agency, and the Soviet space program before it, have lived and trained in Star City since the 1960s. In the Soviet era the location was a highly secret and guarded military installation, access to which was severely restricted. Many Russian cosmonauts, past and present, and Training Centre's personnel, live in Star City with their families. The facility has its own post office, high school, shops, child day care/kindergarten, movie theater, sports and recreation facilities, railway station, and a museum of space travel and human exploration. Air transportation is available through nearby Chkalovsky Airport.\n\nIn the summer 1992, American \"Youth Science Ambassadors\" sponsored by People to People International were hosted at Star City where they were treated to a presentation by cosmonaut Anatoly Artsebarsky. In the mid- to late 1990s, groups of select students from high school in Star City participated in the Russian American Cultural Exchange Program (RACE). Students first hosted, then visited, American counterparts attending five high schools in the United States of America.\n\nThere is a statue of the \"space dog\" Laika, the first animal to orbit the earth, in Star City.\n\nTransportation needs are met by 380 buses and taxis that stop near the border checkpoints, and by a railway station located at a short walking distance.\n\nFor most of its history, the space training center was in jurisdiction of the Soviet and then Russian military. However, in August 1996, due to the changes in legislation the center became subordinated both to the Ministry of Defense and to the Roscosmos (Russian Federal Space Agency). This double status remained in effect until October 1, 2008, when the center was re-organized and subordinated directly and solely to the Roscosmos. As a result, the status of the territory of Star City was changed from military to civil, and the territory itself was incorporated as a closed administrative-territorial formation of Zvyozdny gorodok. Within the closed formation, the territory was organized on June 16, 2009 as an inhabited locality with the status of a work settlement. A proposal to officially name the work settlement as Zvyozdny gorodok was submitted to the federal government on October 29, 2009, but as of 2011 has not yet been officially approved.\n\nThe \"Prophylactory\" (aka the \"Prohy\") a three-floor dormitory to house Americans during the Apollo-Soyuz Project was built by the Russians during the Apollo-Soyuz Project. NASA leased the second floor for team housing and for the office of the Director of Operations, Russia. NASA also built several duplexes for housing, during the Shuttle-Mir program.\n\nNASA flight surgeon Michael Barratt stated during an oral history interview in 1998, \"Star City has always been kind of felt as the forbidden city or the hidden city. It wasn't on any maps, certainly, by then. It was a secret cosmonaut training base. Of course, everyone knew where it was, but it was considered a closed and secure city\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42274823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42274823", "title": "Thousand-year Rose", "text": "Thousand-year Rose\n\nThe Thousand-year Rose (German: Tausendjähriger Rosenstock, literally: Thousand-years rosebush) is also known as the Rose of Hildesheim. It grows on a wall of the Hildesheim Cathedral, a Catholic cathedral in Hildesheim, Germany, that is dedicated to the Assumption of Mary. The cathedral and the adjacent St. Michael's Church have been on the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites since 1985.\n\nThe rose that climbs on the wall of the cathedral's apse is believed to be the oldest living rose in the world. A \"Rosa canina\", commonly known as a wild dog rose, grows against the eastern apse of the cathedral, which is around high and wide. The rose bush reaches a height of around and documentation verifies its age at approximately 700 years. Slight variations arise in the tale of the establishment of the diocese by King Louis the Pious at Hildesheim in 815 but the rose bush is a common theme in all versions. The Cathedral was destroyed by Allied bombers in 1945 during the Second World War, but the roots of the rose bush survived and it blossomed again among the ruins. According to legend, while the rose bush flourishes, Hildesheim will prosper.\n\nA poem about the rose was published in 1896. In the early twentieth century, after visiting the Cathedral and seeing the rose, author Mabel Wagnalls was inspired to write a book, which went on to form the basis of a silent film.\n\nThe rose at Hildesheim is a \"Rosa canina\", also called a dog rose. According to legend, it dates back to the establishment of the diocese of Hildesheim, around 815. The buildings were constructed around the area in which the rose was growing.\n\nDog roses, the \"Caninae\" section of the genus \"Rosa\", have around 20–30 species and subspecies, which appear in a variety of shapes and occur mostly in Northern and Central Europe. The rose that grows on the Saint Mary Cathedral belongs to the \"Rosa canina\" and it shows the specific features of a \"canina\", being a deciduous shrub normally ranging in height from one to three metres; however occasionally it can climb if given support. The stems are covered with small, sharp, hooked spines to assist it in climbing. The leaves have between five and seven leaflets. The flowers are usually pale pink, fragrant, four to six centimetres in diameter with five petals, and develop into oval 1.5–2 centimetre red-orange coloured hips. The fruit is noted for its high vitamin C level and is used to make tea and marmalade. The rose hips are used in traditional folk medicine as a remedy for inflammatory-related diseases.\n\nIn traditional Austrian folk medicine the rose hips have been used to make a tea for treatment of viral infections and disorders of the kidneys and urinary tract. The mature rose is also attractive to wildlife, various insects and serves as a shelter for nesting birds. The birds eat the hips in the winter.\n\nThe rose blossoms usually survive for around a fortnight and appear toward the end of May but this can vary slightly according to weather conditions. The flowers have a pale, very light pink colour with a slight white colouring in the middle and they are of a medium size. The flowers have a rather light fragrance. The five petals of the flowers are weakly undulated. The leaves are shiny dark-green on the upper side and hairless on the underside. The rose hips are oval and quite elongated and of a bright medium reddish colouring. The thorns are of medium density and size.\n\nIn 1945 during the Second World war Allied bombs devastated the cathedral, but the rosebush survived; the parts of the plant above the ground were damaged but the roots remained alive under the ruins, and the hardy rose regrew.\n\nNot all roses are so durable; the longest living rose bushes are mostly categorised as wild roses. Garden roses and other rose cultivars may have a much shorter lifespan of only a couple of hundred years. The tea rose has the shortest lifespan: it might not survive more than thirty to fifty years.\n\nAfter the Duchy of Saxony had been conquered by the Frankish Kingdom, Emperor Charlemagne in 800 founded a missionary diocese at his Eastphalian court in Elze (\"Aula Caesaris\"), a town in the district of Hildesheim, in Lower Saxony, Germany, about west of Hildesheim. He dedicated the missionary diocese to Saints Peter and Paul; it became the origin of the Bishopric of Hildesheim. His son, King Louis the Pious, relocated the episcopal bishopric to Hildesheim in 815, dedicated to the Assumption of Mary, which is celebrated on 15 August.\n\nThus, Hildesheim, one of the oldest cities in Northern Germany, became the seat of the Bishopric of Hildesheim in 815. The settlement with the cathedral developed quickly into a town which was given market rights by King Otto III in 983.\n\nAbout fifty years after the diocese's establishment, the first large cathedral was ready. Also a monastery was built during this time by the Benedictine monk Saint Altfrid or Altfrid of Hildesheim, who became Bishop of Hildesheim and founded Essen Abbey, mentioned by the Hildesheim Chronicle.\n\nIn 1909, in his book \"Romantic Germany\", Robert Schauffler tells the legend of the rose. In 815 Emperor Louis the Pious (778–840), son of Charlemagne, was hunting in the Hercynian Forest. While he was hunting a white buck, he became separated from his fellow hunters and lost his game and horse. He tried to summon help with his hunting-horn, but nobody answered the call. Disoriented and alone, he swam across the Innerste river then walked all day until he arrived at a mound covered with a wild rose, the symbol of the old Saxon goddess Hulda. The Emperor had a reliquary containing relics of the Virgin Mary over which he prayed for rescue until he fell asleep.\n\nWhen he woke up, the mound was covered with glittering white snow despite it being the middle of summer. The bush was in full bloom, the grass was lush and the trees were covered in leaves. He looked for his reliquary and saw it was covered in ice between the branches of the rose-bush. The Emperor's interpretation of this miracle was that the goddess was sending him a sign by \"shaking her bed\" that the Virgin should in future be venerated instead of her. Hulda is depicted as a maiden in snow-white clothes – she is the protector of women's crafts but also associated with wilderness and winter – when it snows, it is said that Hulda is shaking out her feather pillow. When his followers finally found the Emperor he pledged that he would construct a cathedral to honour the Virgin where the mound with the rose was. He did spare the rose, and built the cathedral in a way that the rose is growing now behind the altar in the apse. After more than a thousand years, the same rose bush still blossoms.\n\nAccording to a different version of the legend, the German emperor Louis the Pious lost his cherished reliquary while chasing game and promised that he would erect a chapel wherever it was discovered. The reliquary was found on the branches of a wild rose and the Emperor constructed the sanctuary beside the rose, with the altar close to the site where the rose was growing.\n\nAnother slight variation to the legend is given in \"Fundatio Ecclesiae Hildensemens\", an 11th-century publication. The Emperor had taken the reliquary to use when he stopped to say Mass while out hunting. The artefact was placed in a tree while the sermon was undertaken but not retrieved when the hunt resumed. Later a chaplain was unable to remove the reliquary from the branches. Believing this to be a symbol of God's will, the Emperor had a church constructed there instead of as originally planned at Elze.\n\nOne of the first printed works by Jessie Weston was a lengthy sentimental verse called \"The Rose-Tree of Hildesheim\". A narrative about \"sacrifice and denial\", it was modelled on the story of the rose. Published in 1896, it was the title verse in an omnibus of her poems.\n\nInspiration for the book entitled \"The Rose-bush of a Thousand Years\" came from the rose at Hildesheim. Written by Mabel Wagnalls and published in 1918, it is a tale about a young girl abandoning her baby to the care of a convent. The mother later gains notoriety, has a \"spiritual transformation\" and rekindles a relationship with her child. The story went on to form the basis for the 1924 silent film \"Revelation\". The ninety-minute film starred Viola Dana, Monte Blue and Lew Cody. It was written and directed by George D. Baker.\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "9407088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9407088", "title": "Thrownness", "text": "Thrownness\n\nThrownness () is a concept introduced by German philosopher Martin Heidegger (1889–1976) to describe humans' individual existences as \"being thrown\" (\"geworfen\") into the world.\n\n\"Geworfen\" denotes the arbitrary or inscrutable nature of \"Dasein\" that connects the past with the present. The past, through Being-toward-death, becomes a part of \"Dasein\". Awareness and acknowledgment of the arbitrariness of \"Dasein\" is characterized as a state of \"thrown-ness\" in the present with all its attendant frustrations, sufferings, and demands that one does not choose, such as social conventions or ties of kinship and duty. The very fact of one's own existence is a manifestation of thrown-ness. The idea of the past as a matrix not chosen, but at the same time not utterly binding or deterministic, results in the notion of \"Geworfenheit\"—a kind of alienation that human beings struggle against, and that leaves a paradoxical opening for freedom:\n\nFor William J. Richardson, \"Geworfenheit\" \"must be understood in a purely ontological sense as wishing to signify the matter-of-fact character of human finitude\". That's why \"thrownness\" is the best English word for \"Geworfenheit\". Richardson: \"[Other] attractive translations such as 'abandon,' 'dereliction,' 'dejection,' etc. [...] are [dangerous because they are] too rich with ontic, anthropological connotations. We retain 'thrown-ness' as closest to the original and, perhaps, least misleading.\"\n\nIn his main work \"The Principle of Hope\" (1954-9), the anti-Heideggerian author Ernst Bloch has correlated the thrownness into the world with a dog's life: hope \"will not tolerate a dog's life which feels itself only passively thrown into What Is, which is not seen through, even wretchedly recognized\". Such a connection had been picked up by The Doors in a verse of their song \"Riders on the Storm\" (1971): \"Into this world we're thrown / Like a dog without a bone\". Speaking with Krieger and Manzarek, the philosopher Thomas Vollmer tells how this verse recalls Heidegger's concept of thrownness: in 1963 at Florida State University in Tallahassee, Jim Morrison heard an influential lesson for him, where were discussed philosophers who had a critical look at the philosophical tradition, including Friedrich Nietzsche and Martin Heidegger.\nIn 2009, Simon Critchley dedicated his column on \"The Guardian\" to Heidegger's concept of thrownness and explained it using the aforementioned verse of The Doors.\n\nIn their 1986 book \"Understanding Computers and Cognition. A New Foundation for Design\", authors Terry Winograd and Fernando Flores applied Heidegger's concept of thrownness to the field of software design.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "797295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=797295", "title": "Tulpa", "text": "Tulpa\n\nTulpa is a concept in mysticism and the paranormal of a being or object which is created through spiritual or mental powers. It was adapted by 20th century theosophists from Tibetan sprul-pa () which means \"emanation\" or \"manifestation\". Modern practitioners use the term to refer to a type of willed imaginary friend which practitioners consider to be sentient and relatively autonomous.\n\nOne early Buddhist text, the \"Samaññaphala Sutta\", lists the ability to create a “mind-made body” (\"manomāyakāya\") as one of the \"fruits of the contemplative life\". Commentarial texts such as the \"Patisambhidamagga\" and the \"Visuddhimagga\" state that this mind-made body is how Gautama Buddha and arhats are able to travel into heavenly realms using the continuum of the mindstream (citta-santāna) and it is also used to explain the multiplication miracle of the Buddha as illustrated in the \"Divyavadana\", in which the Buddha multiplied his emanation body (\"nirmita\") into countless other bodies which filled the sky. A Buddha or other realized being is able to project many such \"nirmitas\" simultaneously in an infinite variety of forms in different realms simultaneously.\n\nThe Indian Buddhist philosopher Vasubandhu (fl. 4th to 5th century CE) defined \"nirmita\" as a siddhi or psychic power (Pali: \"iddhi\", Skt: \"ṛddhi\") developed through Buddhist discipline, concentrated discipline (\"samadhi\") and wisdom in his seminal work on Buddhist philosophy, the \"Abhidharmakośa\". Asanga's \"Bodhisattvabhūmi\" defines nirmāṇa as a magical illusion and \"basically, something without a material basis\". The Madhyamaka school of philosophy sees all reality as empty of essence; all reality is seen as a form of nirmita or magical illusion.\n\nEmanation bodies—nirmanakaya, sprulsku, sprul-pa and so on—are connected to trikaya, the Buddhist doctrine of the three bodies of the Buddha. They are usually emanation bodies of celestial beings, though \"unrealized beings\" such as humans may have their own emanation bodies or even \"be\" emanation bodies. For example, the 14th Dalai Lama is considered by some followers to be an emanation-reincarnation or tulku of Chenrezig, the Bodhisattva of Compassion. The 14th Dalai Lama mentioned in a public statement that his successor might appear via emanation while the current Dalai Lama is still alive.\n\n20th century theosophists adapted the concepts of \"emanation body\"—nirmita, tulku, sprul-pa and others—into the concepts of \"tulpa\" and \"thoughtform\". The term “thoughtform” is used as early as 1927 in Evans-Wentz' translation of the Tibetan Book of the Dead. John Myrdhin Reynolds in a note to his English translation of the life story of Garab Dorje defines a \"tulpa\" as “an emanation or a manifestation.” \n\nBelgian-French explorer, spiritualist, and Buddhist Alexandra David-Néel claimed to have observed these mystical practices in 20th century Tibet. She reported tulpas are \"magic formations generated by a powerful concentration of thought.\" David-Néel wrote that \"an accomplished Bodhisattva is capable of effecting ten kinds of magic creations. The power of producing magic formations, tulkus or less lasting and materialized tulpas, does not, however, belong exclusively to such mystic exalted beings. Any human, divine or demoniac being may be possessed of it. The only difference comes from the degree of power, and this depends on the strength of the concentration and the quality of the mind itself.\"\n\nDavid-Néel wrote of the tulpa's ability to develop a mind of its own: \"Once the tulpa is endowed with enough vitality to be capable of playing the part of a real being, it tends to free itself from its maker's control. This, say Tibetan occultists, happens nearly mechanically, just as the child, when his body is completed and able to live apart, leaves its mother's womb.\" David-Néel claimed to have created a tulpa in the image of a jolly Friar Tuck-like monk which later developed a life of its own and had to be destroyed. David-Néel raised the possibility that her experience was illusory: \"I may have created my own hallucination\", though she reports that others could see the thoughtforms that have been created.\n\nThe Western occult understanding of the concept of \"thoughtform\" is believed by some to have originated as an interpretation of the Tibetan concept of \"tulpa\". The concept is related to the Western philosophy and practice of magic. Occultist William Walker Atkinson in his book \"The Human Aura\" described thought-forms as simple ethereal objects emanating from the auras surrounding people, generating from their thoughts and feelings. He further elaborated in \"Clairvoyance and Occult Powers\" how experienced practitioners of the occult can produce thoughtforms from their auras that serve as astral projections which may or may not look like the person who is projecting them, or as illusions that can only be seen by those with \"awakened astral senses\". The theosophist Annie Besant, in her book \"Thought-forms\", divides them into three classes: forms in the shape of the person who creates them, forms that resemble objects or people and may become \"ensouled\" by \"nature spirits\" or by the dead, and forms that represent \"inherent qualities\" from the astral or mental planes, such as emotions.\n\nThe concept of tulpa was popularized and secularized in the Western world through fiction, gaining popularity on television in the late 1990s and 2000s. In 2009, anonymous posters on the discussion board 4chan started experimenting with creating tulpas, and the community gained popularity through the emergence of the . The anthropologist and cognitive scientist Samuel Veissiere wrote that on February 2015 the Reddit forum, which carries most of the tulpamancy conversations in English, had 7740 members, but less than 200 active posters. The fans attempted to use meditation and lucid dreaming techniques to create imaginary friends. Surveys by Veissière explored this community's demographic, social, and psychological profiles. These individuals, calling themselves \"tulpamancers\", treat the tulpas as a \"real or somewhat-real person\". The number of active participants in these online communities is in the low hundreds, and few meetings in person have taken place. They belong to \"primarily urban, middle class, Euro-American adolescent and young adult demographics\" and they \"cite loneliness and social anxiety as an incentive to pick up the practice.\" 93.7% of respondents expressed that their involvement with the creation of tulpas has \"made their condition better\", and led to new unusual sensory experiences. Some practitioners have sexual and romantic interactions with their tulpas, though the practice is controversial and trending towards taboo. One survey found that 8.5% support a metaphysical explanation of tulpas, 76.5% support a neurological or psychological explanation, and 14% \"other\" explanations.\n"}
{"id": "5646927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5646927", "title": "Universal mind", "text": "Universal mind\n\nUniversal mind or universal consciousness is a concept that tries to address the underlying essence of all being and becoming in the universe. It includes the being and becoming that occurred in the universe prior to the arising of the concept of \"Mind\", a term that more appropriately refers to the organic, human, aspect of universal consciousness. It addresses inorganic being and becoming and the interactions that occur in that process without specific reference to the physical and chemical laws that try to describe those interactions. Those interactions have occurred, do occur, and continue to occur. Universal consciousness is the source, ground, basis, that underlies those interactions and the awareness and knowledge they imply.\n\nThe concept of universal mind was presented by Anaxagoras, a Pre-Socratic philosopher who arrived in Athens some time after 480 BC. He taught that the growth of living things depends on the power of mind within the organisms that enables them to extract nourishment from surrounding substances. For this concept of mind, Anaxagoras was commended by Aristotle. Both Plato and Aristotle, however, objected that his notion of mind did not include a view that mind acts ethically, i.e. acts for the “best interests” of the universe.[1]\n\nThe most original aspect of Anaxagoras's system was his doctrine of \"nous\" (\"mind\" or \"reason\"). [2] A different Greek word, \"gnó̱si̱\" (awareness), better reflects what is observed in the wider world of organic and inorganic being than just the human world. A worm, an amoeba, a bacteria, a raindrop, appears to act with \"awareness\" (\"gnó̱si̱\") rather than \"reason\" (\"nous\"). Also, these actions would not commonly be referred to as being \"reasonable\" or \"ethical\".\n\nIn \"The Huang Po Doctrine of Universal Mind\", originated in around 857 CE, the idea of mind was disconnected from soul in this Buddhist school of thought.\n\nChu Ch’an says, “Universal mind, therefore, is something to which nothing can be attributed. Being absolute, it is beyond attributes. If for example, it were to be described as infinite, that would exclude from it whatever is finite, but the whole argument of the book is that universal mind is the only reality and that everything we apprehend through our senses, is nothing else but this mind. Even to think of it in terms of existence or non-existence is to misapprehend it entirely.” pp. 8–9 [3]\n\nThe term surfaced again in later philosophy, as in the writings of Hegel. - Hegel writes:\nErnest Holmes, the founder of the Science of Mind movement, described the universal mind as follows: \nNew Thought author Charles Haanel said of the universal mind and its relationship to humans:\nThe nature of the universal mind is said to be omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent.\n\nUniversal mind may be viewed from a scientific perspective as non-local consciousness. Michael Persinger wrote on non-local consciousness:\nThe atemporal nature of consciousness is explored by Mansoor Malik and Maria Hipolito. They summarise key theorists on the subject from different ontological perspectives:\n\n\n\n"}
