{"id": "30540533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30540533", "title": "Adolf Rosenzweig", "text": "Adolf Rosenzweig\n\nRabbi Dr. Adolf Rosenzweig (October 20, 1850 – August 16, 1918) was a German moderate liberal rabbi and Biblical and Talmudic scholar. In his publications he dealt with historical and archaeological matters.\n\nAdolf Aharon Rosenzweig was born in Turdossin, Hungary. He studied at the gymnasium at Pest, later at the Yeshiva of Pressburg. After graduation he went to Berlin, where he studied philosophy and Oriental languages and literatures at the University of Berlin, and theology at the Hochschule für die Wissenschaft des Judentums. Finally he earned his PhD.\n\nOn October 20, 1874, he entered upon the rabbinate of Pasewalk, Province of Pomerania, whence he was called to Birnbaum, Posen. In 1879 he went to Teplitz, Bohemia, and in 1887 he accepted a rabbinate at the New Synagogue (Neue Synagoge) in Oranienburger Straße, Berlin, where he remained until his death in 1918. There he came to be known as an outstanding preacher. He was also a prolific author, writing on history and archaeology as well as religious subjects.\n\nRosenzweig died in 1918, at 68, and was buried in Berlin. On his gravestone was written: \"The law of truth was in his mouth, and unrighteousness was not found in his lips\" (Malachi ).\n\nRosenzweig's son, Rabbi Dr. Arthur Rosenzweig (March 27, 1883, Teplitz – 1935, Prague), was a spiritual leader.\n\nHis daughter, Hedwig, married Rabbi Juda Bergmann (1874–1956) – Galician-born, studied in the Rabbinical Seminary in Vienna; rabbi in Berlin from 1908; emigrated to Mandate Palestine in 1933. They had 8 children. Their elder son, Ernst David Bergmann (October 18, 1903, Karlsruhe – 1975), was a professor of Organic Chemistry in the Hebrew University of Jerusalem (1954–1975), and often considered the father of the Israeli nuclear program. His brother, Felix Eliezer Bergmann (August 17, 1908, Frankfurt – 2002, Israel), raised in Berlin, PhD in chemistry and MD from the University of Berlin in 1933; chair of Pharmacology in the Hebrew University of Jerusalem (1950–2002). Arthur Bergmann (born 1908) was a lawyer who defended Palestinian prisoners and initiated several humanitarian projects for blind Palestinian children. Theodor Bergmann (born March 7, 1916, in Berlin) is a professor of Agricultural Economy in the University of Hohenheim in Stuttgart since 1981.\nAlfred Bergmann (born 1910) was a member of the German communist opposition (KPD-O) like his younger brothers Theodor and Josef. Alfred was forced to emigrate to Switzerland from where he was handed over to the German Gestapo in 1942 and murdered in prison. Josef Bergmann (born 1913), also a member of the German communist opposition, emigrated with his brother Theodor to Sweden and returned to Germany after WW II.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13634972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13634972", "title": "Anti-nuclear movement in the United States", "text": "Anti-nuclear movement in the United States\n\nThe anti-nuclear movement in the United States consists of more than 80 anti-nuclear groups that oppose nuclear power, nuclear weapons, and/or uranium mining. These have included the Abalone Alliance, Clamshell Alliance, Committee for Nuclear Responsibility, Nevada Desert Experience, Nuclear Information and Resource Service, Physicians for Social Responsibility, Plowshares Movement, Women Strike for Peace, and Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. The anti-nuclear movement has delayed construction or halted commitments to build some new nuclear plants, and has pressured the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to enforce and strengthen the safety regulations for nuclear power plants.\n\nAnti-nuclear protests reached a peak in the 1970s and 1980s and grew out of the environmental movement. Campaigns that captured national public attention involved the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant (by the Clamshell Alliance), Diablo Canyon Power Plant, Shoreham Nuclear Power Plant, and Three Mile Island.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, many anti-nuclear power activists began shifting their interest, by joining the rapidly growing Nuclear Freeze campaign, and the primary concern about nuclear hazards in the US changed from the problems of nuclear power plants to the prospects of nuclear war. On June 3, 1981, the White House Peace Vigil began and has continued day and night ever since, thanks to William Thomas (activist) and a small band of stalwart antinuclear activists who launched the \"Proposition One Campaign for a Nuclear-Free Future\" voter initiative in 1993 which led to a bill that has been introduced into the House of Representatives every session by Eleanor Holmes Norton. On June 12, 1982, one million people demonstrated in New York City's Central Park against nuclear weapons and for an end to the cold war arms race. It was the largest anti-nuclear protest and the largest political demonstration in American history. International Day of Nuclear Disarmament protests were held on June 20, 1983, at 50 sites across the United States.\nThere were many Nevada Desert Experience protests and peace camps at the Nevada Test Site during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nMore recent campaigning by anti-nuclear groups has related to several nuclear power plants including the Enrico Fermi Nuclear Power Plant, Indian Point Energy Center, Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station, Pilgrim Nuclear Generating Station, Salem Nuclear Power Plant, and Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant. There have also been campaigns relating to the Y-12 Nuclear Weapons Plant, the Idaho National Laboratory, Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository proposal, the Hanford Site, the Nevada Test Site, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and transportation of nuclear waste from the Los Alamos National Laboratory.\n\nSome scientists and engineers have expressed reservations about nuclear power, including: Barry Commoner, S. David Freeman, John Gofman, Arnold Gundersen, Mark Z. Jacobson, Amory Lovins, Arjun Makhijani, Gregory Minor, M.V. Ramana, Joseph Romm and Benjamin K. Sovacool. Scientists who have opposed nuclear weapons include Paul M. Doty, Hermann Joseph Muller, Linus Pauling, Eugene Rabinowitch, M.V. Ramana and Frank N. von Hippel.\n\n On November 1, 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. It was the largest national women's peace protest of the 20th century.\nThe nuclear debate initially was about nuclear weapons policy, and began within the scientific community. Scientific concern about the adverse health effects arising from atmospheric nuclear weapons testing first emerged in 1954. Professional associations such as the Federation of Atomic Scientists and the Pugwash Conference on Science and World Affairs were involved. The National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy was formed in November 1957, and surveys showed rising public uneasiness about the nuclear arms race—especially atmospheric nuclear weapons tests that sent radioactive fallout around the globe. In 1962, Linus Pauling won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work to stop the atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons, and the \"Ban the Bomb\" movement spread throughout the United States.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1992, the United States maintained a program of vigorous nuclear weapons testing. A total of 1,054 nuclear tests and two nuclear attacks were conducted, with over 900 of them at the Nevada Test Site, and ten on miscellaneous sites in the United States (Alaska, Colorado, Mississippi, and New Mexico). Until November 1962, the vast majority of the U.S. tests were above-ground; after the acceptance of the Partial Test Ban Treaty all testing was relegated underground, in order to prevent the dispersion of nuclear fallout.\n\nThe U.S. program of atmospheric nuclear testing exposed some people to the hazards of fallout. Since the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990, more than $1.38 billion in compensation has been approved. The money is going to people who took part in the tests, notably at the Nevada Test Site, and to others exposed to the radiation.\n\nUnexpectedly high costs in the nuclear weapons program, along with competition with the Soviet Union and a desire to spread democracy through the world, created \"... pressure on federal officials to develop a civilian nuclear power industry that could help justify the government's considerable expenditures.\"\n\nThe Atomic Energy Act of 1954 encouraged private corporations to build nuclear reactors and a significant learning phase followed with many early partial core meltdowns and accidents at experimental reactors and research facilities. This led to the introduction of the Price-Anderson Act in 1957, which was, \"... an implicit admission that nuclear power provided risks that producers were unwilling to assume without federal backing.\" The Price-Anderson Act \"... shields nuclear utilities, vendors and suppliers against liability claims in the event of a catastrophic accident by imposing an upper limit on private sector liability.\" Without such protection, private companies were unwilling to become involved. No other technology in the history of American industry has enjoyed such continuing blanket protection.\n\nThe first U.S. reactor to face public opposition was Fermi 1 in 1957. It was built approximately 30 miles from Detroit and there was opposition from the United Auto Workers Union.\n\nPacific Gas & Electric planned to build the first commercially viable nuclear power plant in the US at Bodega Bay, north of San Francisco. The proposal was controversial and conflict with local citizens began in 1958. The proposed plant site was close to the San Andreas fault and the region's environmentally sensitive fishing and dairy industries. The Sierra Club became actively involved in the controversy. The conflict ended in 1964, with the forced abandonment of plans for the Bodega Bay power plant. Historian Thomas Wellock traces the birth of the anti-nuclear movement in the United States to the controversy over Bodega Bay. Attempts to build a nuclear power plant in Malibu were similar to those at Bodega Bay and were also abandoned.\n\nA small military test reactor exploded at the Stationary Low-Power Reactor Number One in Idaho Falls in January 1961, causing 3 fatalities. This was caused by a combination of dangerous reactor design plus either sabotage, operator error by experienced operators. A further partial meltdown at the Enrico Fermi Nuclear Generating Station in Michigan in 1966.\n\nIn his 1963 book \"Change, Hope and the Bomb\", David E. Lilienthal criticized nuclear developments, particularly the nuclear industry's failure to address the nuclear waste question. He argued that it would be \"... particularly irresponsible to go ahead with the construction of full scale nuclear power plants without a safe method of nuclear waste disposal having been demonstrated.\" However, Lilienthal stopped short of a blanket rejection of nuclear power. His view was that a more cautious approach was necessary.\n\nSamuel Walker, in his book \"\", explains that the growth of the nuclear industry in the U.S. occurred as the environmental movement was being formed. Environmentalists saw the advantages of nuclear power in reducing air pollution, but became critical of nuclear technology on other grounds. The view that nuclear power was better for the environment than conventional fuels was partially undermined in the late 1960s when major controversy erupted over the effects of waste heat from nuclear plants on water quality. The nuclear industry \"... gradually and reluctantly took action to reduce thermal pollution by building cooling towers or ponds for plants on inland waterways.\" \nSeveral scientists, including John Gofman and Arthur Tamplin, challenged the prevailing view that the small amounts of radioactivity released by nuclear power plants during normal operation were not a problem. They argued \"... that the routine releases were a severe threat to public health and could cause tens of thousands of deaths from cancer each year.\" Exchange of views about radiation risks caused uneasiness about nuclear power, especially among those unable to evaluate the conflicting claims.\n\nThe large size of nuclear plants ordered during the late 1960s raised new safety questions and created fears of a severe reactor accident that would send large quantities of radioactivity into the environment. In the early 1970s, a highly contentious debate over the performance of emergency core cooling systems in nuclear plants, designed to prevent a core meltdown that could lead to the \"China syndrome\", received coverage in the popular media and technical journals. The emergency core cooling systems controversy opened up whether the AECs first priority was promotion of the nuclear industry or protection of public health and safety.\n\nBy the early 1970s, anti-nuclear activity had increased dramatically in conjunction with concerns about nuclear safety and criticisms of a policy-making process that allowed little voice for these concerns. Initially scattered and organized at the local level, opposition to nuclear power became a national movement by the mid-1970s when such groups as the Sierra Club, Friends of the Earth, Natural Resources Defense Council, Union of Concerned Scientists, and Critical Mass became involved. With the rise of environmentalism in the 1970s, the anti-nuclear movement grew substantially: \n\nIn 1975–76, ballot initiatives to control or halt the growth of nuclear power were introduced in eight western states. Although they enjoyed little success at the polls, the controls they sought to impose were sometimes adopted in part by state legislature, most notably in California. Interventions in plant licensing proceedings increased, often focusing on technical issues related to safety. This widespread popular ferment kept the issue before the public and contributed to growing public skepticism about nuclear power. \nAnother major area of ongoing concern was nuclear waste management. The absence of a working waste management facility became an important issue by the mid-1970s:\n\nIn 1976, the California Energy Commission announced that it would not approve any more nuclear plants unless the utilities could specify fuel and waste disposal costs, an impossible task without decision on reprocessing, spent fuel storage and waste disposal. By the late 1970s, over thirty states had passed legislation regulating various activities associated with nuclear waste.\n\nMany technologies and materials associated with the creation of a nuclear power program have a dual-use capability, in that they can be used to make nuclear weapons if a country chooses to do so. In 1975 over 2,000 prominent scientists signed a Declaration on Nuclear Power, prepared by the Union of Concerned Scientists, warning of the dangers of nuclear proliferation and urging the President and Congress to suspend the exportation of nuclear power to other countries, and reduce domestic construction until major problems were resolved. Theodore Taylor, a former nuclear weapons designer, explained, \"... the ease with which nuclear bombs could be manufactured if fissionable material was available.\"\n\nIn 1976, four nuclear engineers -three from GE and one from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission- resigned, stating that nuclear power was not as safe as their superiors were claiming. These men were engineers who had spent most of their working life building reactors, and their defection galvanized anti-nuclear groups across the country. They testified to the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy that: \n\nthe cumulative effect of all design defects and deficiencies in the design, construction and operations of nuclear power plants makes a nuclear power plant accident, in our opinion, a certain event. The only question is when, and where.\n\nThese issues, together with a series of other environmental, technical, and public health questions, made nuclear power the source of acute controversy. Public support, which was strong in the early 1960s, had been shaken. \"Forbes\", in the September 1975 issue, reported that \"the anti-nuclear coalition has been remarkably successful ... [and] has certainly slowed the expansion of nuclear power.\" By the mid-1970s anti-nuclear activism, fueled by dissenting experts, had moved beyond local protests and politics to gain a wider appeal and influence. Although it lacked a single coordinating organization, and did not have uniform goals, it emerged as a movement sharply focused on opposing nuclear power, and the movement's efforts gained a great deal of national attention.\n\nOn March 28, 1979, equipment failures and operator error contributed to loss of coolant and a partial core meltdown at the Three Mile Island Nuclear Power Plant in Pennsylvania. The World Nuclear Association has stated that cleanup of the damaged nuclear reactor system at TMI-2 took nearly 12 years and cost approximately US $973 million. Benjamin K. Sovacool, in his 2007 preliminary assessment of major energy accidents, estimated that the TMI accident caused a total of $2.4 billion in property damages. The health effects of the Three Mile Island accident are widely, but not universally, agreed to be very low level. The accident triggered protests around the world.\n\nThe 1979 Three Mile Island accident inspired Perrow's book \"Normal Accidents\", where a nuclear accident occurs, resulting from an unanticipated interaction of multiple failures in a complex system. TMI was an example of a normal accident because it was \"... unexpected, incomprehensible, uncontrollable and unavoidable.\" \n\nPerrow concluded that the failure at Three Mile Island was a consequence of the system's immense complexity. Such modern high-risk systems, he realized, were prone to failures however well they were managed. It was inevitable that they would eventually suffer what he termed a 'normal accident'. Therefore, he suggested, we might do better to contemplate a radical redesign, or if that was not possible, to abandon such technology entirely.\n\nNuclear power plants are a complex energy system. and opponents of nuclear power have criticized the sophistication and complexity of the technology. Helen Caldicott has said: \"... in essence, a nuclear reactor is just a very sophisticated and dangerous way to boil water – analogous to cutting a pound of butter with a chain saw.\" These critics of nuclear power advocate the use of energy conservation, efficient energy use, and appropriate renewable energy technologies to create our energy future. Amory Lovins, from the Rocky Mountain Institute, has argued that centralized electricity systems with giant power plants are becoming obsolete. In their place are emerging \"distributed resources\"—smaller, decentralized electricity supply sources (including efficiency) that are cheaper, cleaner, less risky, more flexible, and quicker to deploy. Such technologies are often called \"soft energy technologies\" and Lovins viewed their impacts as more gentle, pleasant, and manageable than hard energy technologies such as nuclear power.\n\nNuclear energy systems have a long stay time. The completion of the sequence of activities related to one commercial nuclear power station, from the start of construction through the safe disposal of its last radioactive waste, may take 100–150 years.\n\nUranium mining is the process of extraction of uranium ore from the ground. A prominent use of uranium from mining is as fuel for nuclear power plants. After mining uranium ores, they are normally processed by grinding the ore materials to a uniform particle size and then treating the ore to extract the uranium by chemical leaching. The milling process commonly yields dry powder-form material consisting of natural uranium, \"yellowcake\", which is sold on the uranium market as UO, and uranium mining can use large amounts of water.\n\nThe Church Rock uranium mill spill occurred in New Mexico on July 16, 1979, when United Nuclear Corporation's Church Rock uranium mill tailings disposal pond breached its dam. Over 1,000 tons of solid radioactive mill waste and 93 million gallons of acidic, radioactive tailings solution flowed into the Puerco River, and contaminants traveled downstream to Navajo County, Arizona and onto the Navajo Nation. The accident released more radioactivity than the Three Mile Island accident that occurred four months earlier and was the largest release of radioactive material in U.S. history. Groundwater near the spill was contaminated and the Puerco rendered unusable by local residents, who were not immediately aware of the toxic danger.\n\nDespite efforts made in cleaning up uranium sites, significant problems stemming from the legacy of uranium development still exist today on the Navajo Nation and in the states of Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona. Hundreds of abandoned mines have not been cleaned up and present environmental and health risks in many communities. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that there are 4000 mines with documented uranium production, and another 15,000 locations with uranium occurrences in 14 western states, most found in the Four Corners area and Wyoming. The \"Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act\" is a United States environmental law that amended the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and gave the Environmental Protection Agency the authority to establish health and environmental standards for the stabilization, restoration, and disposal of uranium mill waste.\n\nAnti-uranium activists in the US include: Thomas Banyacya, Manuel Pino and Floyd Red Crow Westerman.\n\nAnti-nuclear organizations oppose nuclear power, nuclear weapons, and/or uranium mining. More than eighty anti-nuclear groups operate, or have operated, in the United States. These include:\n\n\nSome of the most influential groups in the anti-nuclear movement have had some members who were elite scientists, including Nobel Laureates Linus Pauling and Hermann Joseph Muller. In the United States, these scientists have belonged primarily to three groups: the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Federation of American Scientists, and the Committee for Nuclear Responsibility.\n\nMany American religious organizations have a long record of opposing nuclear weapons. Rejecting the development and use of nuclear weapons is \"... one of the most widely shared convictions across faith traditions\". In the 1980s religious groups organized large anti-nuclear protests involving hundreds of thousands of people, and specific groups involved included the Southern Baptist Convention, and the Episcopal Church. The Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish communities published explicitly anti-nuclear statements, and in 2000 Muslims also began to take a stance against nuclear weaponry.\n\nThe platform adopted by the delegates of the Green Party (United States) at their annual Green Congress May 26–28, 2000, reflecting the majority views of the membership, included the creation of self-reproducing, renewable energy systems and use of federal investments, purchasing, mandates, and incentives to shut down nuclear power plants and phase out fossil fuels.\n\nRecent campaigning by anti-nuclear groups has related to several nuclear power plants including the Enrico Fermi Nuclear Power Plant, Indian Point Energy Center, Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station, Pilgrim Nuclear Generating Station, Salem Nuclear Power Plant, and Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant. There have also been campaigns relating to the Y-12 Nuclear Weapons Plant, the Idaho National Laboratory, proposed Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository, the Hanford Site, the Nevada Test Site, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and transportation of nuclear waste from the Los Alamos National Laboratory.\n\nOn November 1, 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. It was the largest national women's peace protest of the 20th century.\n\nThere were many anti-nuclear protests in the United States which captured national public attention during the 1970s and 1980s. These included the well-known Clamshell Alliance protests at Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant and the Abalone Alliance protests at Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant, where thousands of protesters were arrested. Other large protests followed the 1979 Three Mile Island accident.\n\nA large anti-nuclear demonstration was held in May 1979 in Washington D.C., when 65,000 people including the Governor of California, attended a march and rally against nuclear power. In New York City on September 23, 1979, almost 200,000 people attended a protest against nuclear power. Anti-nuclear power protests preceded the shutdown of the Shoreham, Yankee Rowe, Millstone I, Rancho Seco, Maine Yankee, and about a dozen other nuclear power plants.\n\nOn June 3, 1981, Thomas launched the White House Peace Vigil in Washington, D.C.. He was later joined on the vigil by anti-nuclear activists Concepcion Picciotto and Ellen Benjamin.\n\nOn June 6, 1982, a crowd of 85,000 gathers at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, CA for \"Peace Sunday: We Have a Dream\" a rally and concert in support of the United Nations Special Session on Nuclear Disarmament. Performers include Joan Baez, Bob Dylan, Stevie Wonder and Crosby, Stills & Nash.\n\nOn June 12, 1982, one million people demonstrated in New York City's Central Park against nuclear weapons and for an end to the cold war arms race. It was the largest anti-nuclear protest and the largest political demonstration in American history. International Day of Nuclear Disarmament protests were held on June 20, 1983, at 50 sites across the United States.\nIn 1986, hundreds of people walked from Los Angeles to Washington DC in the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament. There were many Nevada Desert Experience protests and peace camps at the Nevada Test Site during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn the 1980s, when fewer nuclear power plants remained in the construction and licensing pipeline, and interest in energy policy as a national issue declined, many anti-nuclear activists switched their focus to nuclear weapons and the arms race. There has also been an \"institutionalization\" of the anti-nuclear movement, where the anti-nuclear movement carried its contests into less visible, and more specialized institutional areas, such as regulatory and licensing hearings, and legal challenges. At the state level, anti-nuclear groups were also successful in placing several anti-nuclear referendums on the ballot.\n\nOn May 1, 2005, 40,000 anti-nuclear/anti-war protesters marched past the United Nations in New York, 60 years after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This was the largest anti-nuclear rally in the U.S. for several decades. In 2008, 2009, and 2010, there have been protests about, and campaigns against, several new nuclear reactor proposals in the United States.</ref>\n\nThere is an annual protest against U.S. nuclear weapons research at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California and in the 2007 protest, 64 people were arrested. There have been a series of protests at the Nevada Test Site and in the April 2007 Nevada Desert Experience protest, 39 people were cited by police. There have been anti-nuclear protests at Naval Base Kitsap for many years, and several in 2008. Also in 2008 and 2009, there have been protests about several proposed nuclear reactors.\n\nFormer vice president Al Gore says he is not anti-nuclear, but has stated that the \"... cost of the present generation of reactors is nearly prohibitive.\" In his 2009 book, \"Our Choice\", Gore argues that nuclear power was once \"expected to provide virtually unlimited supplies of low-cost electricity\", but the reality is that it has been \"... an energy source in crisis for the last 30 years.\" Worldwide growth in nuclear power has slowed in recent years, with no new reactors and an \"actual decline in global capacity and output in 2008.\" In the United States, \"... no nuclear power plants ordered after 1972 have been built to completion.\"\n\nOf the 253 nuclear power reactors originally ordered in the United States from 1953 to 2008, 48 percent were canceled, 11 percent were prematurely shut down, 14 percent experienced at least a one-year-or-more outage, and 27 percent are operating without having a year-plus outage. Thus, only about one fourth of those ordered, or about half of those completed, are still operating and have proved relatively reliable.\nIn his 2005 book \"Winning the Oil Endgame\", Amory Lovins praises nuclear power engineers, but is critical of the nuclear industry:\n\nNo vendor has made money selling power reactors. This is the greatest failure of any enterprise in the industrial history of the world. We don't mean that as a criticism of nuclear power's practitioners, on whose skill and devotion we all continue to depend; the impressive operational improvements in U.S. power reactors in recent years deserve great credit. It is simply how technologies and markets evolved, despite the best intentions and immense effort. In nuclear power's heydey, its proponents saw no competitors but central coal-fired power stations. Then, in quick succession, came end-use efficiency, combined-cycle plants, distributed generation (including versions that recovered valuable heat previously wasted), and competitive windpower. The range of competitors will only continue to expand more and their costs to fall faster than any nuclear technology can match.\n\nIn 1988, Lovins argued that improving energy efficiency can simultaneously ameliorate greenhouse warming, reduce acid rain and air pollution, save money, and avoid the problems of nuclear power. Given the urgency of abating global warming, Lovins stated that we cannot afford to invest in nuclear power when those same dollars put into efficiency would displace far more carbon dioxide.\n\nIn \"Nuclear Power: Climate Fix or Folly,\" published in 2010, Lovins argued that expanded nuclear power \"... does not represent a cost-effective solution to global warming and that investors would shun it were it not for generous government subsidies lubricated by intensive lobbying efforts.\"\n\nJoseph Romm contends that nuclear power generates about 20 percent of all U.S. electricity, and is a low-carbon source of around-the-clock power, which has received renewed interest in recent years. Yet, Romm says, nuclear power's \"own myriad limitations will constrain its growth, especially in the near term\", and the limitations include:\n\n\nRandall Forsberg (née Watson, 1943–2007) became interested in arms control issues while working at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute in the late 1960s and early 1970s. In 1974, she returned to the United States, and became a graduate student in international studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1979, Forsberg wrote \"Call to Halt the Arms Race\", which later was the manifesto of the Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign. The document advocated a bilateral halt to the testing, production, deployment and delivery of nuclear weapons.\n\nForsberg was awarded a doctorate in 1980 and she started the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, which became an important resource for the peace movement and anti-nuclear weapons movement. In 1983 Forsberg was awarded a MacArthur Foundation \"genius grant\". In 2005 she became Spitzer Professorship in Political Science at the City College of New York, and died of cancer in 2007 when she was 64 years old.\n\nMany advocates of nuclear power argue that, given the urgency of doing something about climate change quickly, it must be pursued. Christopher Flavin, however, contends that speedy implementation is not one of nuclear power's strong points: \n\nPlanning, licensing, and constructing even a single nuclear plant typically takes a decade or more, and plants frequently fail to meet completion deadlines. Due to the dearth of orders in recent decades, the world currently has very limited capacity to manufacture many of the critical components of nuclear plants. Rebuilding that capacity will take a decade or more.\n\nGiven the urgency of the climate problem, Flavin emphasizes the rapid commercialization of renewable energy and efficient energy use:\n\nImproved energy productivity and renewable energy are both available in abundance—and new policies and technologies are rapidly making them more economically competitive with fossil fuels. In combination, these energy options represent the most robust alternative to the current energy system, capable of providing the diverse array of energy services that a modern economy requires. Given the urgency of the climate problem, that is indeed convenient.\n\nSelected other notable individuals who have expressed reservations about nuclear power, nuclear weapons, and/or uranium mining in the US include: \n\nIn November 2009, \"The Washington Post\" reported that nuclear power is emerging as \"... perhaps the world's most unlikely weapon against climate change, with the backing of even some green activists who once campaigned against it.\" The article said that rather than deride the potential for nuclear power, some environmentalists are embracing it, and that presently there is only \"muted opposition\"—nothing like the protests and plant invasions that helped define the anti-nuclear movement in the United States during the 1970s.\n\nPatrick Moore, one of the initial founders of Greenpeace, said in a 2008 interview that, \"It wasn't until after I'd left Greenpeace and the climate change issue started coming to the forefront that I started rethinking energy policy in general and realized that I had been incorrect in my analysis of nuclear as being some kind of evil plot.\" Bernard Cohen, Professor Emeritus of Physics at the University of Pittsburgh, calculates that nuclear power is many times safer than any other form of power generation.\n\nCritics of the movement point to independent studies showing the capital costs of renewable energy sources are higher than those from nuclear power. \n\nCritics argue that the amount of waste generated by nuclear power is very small, as all the high-level nuclear waste from 50+ years of operation of the world's nuclear reactors would fit into a single football field to the depth of five feet. \nFurthermore, U.S. coal power plants presently create nearly a million tons of low-level radioactive waste per day and therefore release more total radioactivity than the nation's nuclear plants, due to the uranium and thorium found naturally within the coal. Nuclear proponents also point out that cost and the quantity of waste figures for the operation of nuclear power plants are commonly derived from nuclear reactors built using second generation designs, dating from the 1960s. Advanced reactor designs are estimated to be even cheaper to operate and generate less than 1% the amount of waste of current designs, like Integral Fast Reactors or Pebble Bed Reactors.\n\nIt is because of these facts that proponents argue that nuclear fission power is the safest means currently available to entirely replace the use of fossil fuels, and pro-nuclear environmentalists argue that a combination of both nuclear energy and renewable energy would be the fastest, safest, and cheapest way forward.\n\nIn 2007 Gwyneth Cravens outlined the message of her newest book, \"Power to Save the World: The Truth About Nuclear Energy\". It argues for nuclear power as a safe energy source and an essential preventive of global warming. \"Pandora's Promise\" is a 2013 documentary film, directed by Robert Stone. It presents an argument that nuclear energy, typically feared by environmentalists, is in fact the only feasible way of meeting humanity's growing need for energy while also addressing the serious problem of climate change. The movie features several notable individuals (some of whom were once vehemently opposed to nuclear power, but who now speak in support of it), including: Stewart Brand, Gwyneth Cravens, Mark Lynas, Richard Rhodes and Michael Shellenberger. Anti-nuclear advocate Helen Caldicott appears briefly.\n\nAs of 2014, the U.S. nuclear industry has begun a new lobbying effort, hiring three former senators—Evan Bayh, a Democrat; Judd Gregg, a Republican; and Spencer Abraham, a Republican—as well as William M. Daley, a former staffer to President Obama. The initiative is called Nuclear Matters, and it has begun a newspaper advertising campaign.\n\nAs of early 2010, anti-nuclear groups such as Physicians for Social Responsibility, NukeFree.org, and NIRS were actively fighting federal loan guarantees for new nuclear plant construction. In February 2010, several groups coordinated a national call-in day to Congress to attempt to stop $54 billion in federal loan guarantees for new nuclear plants. However, the first such loan guarantee of $8.3 billion was offered to Southern Company that same month.\n\nIn January 2010, about 175 anti-nuclear activists participated in a 126-mile walk in an effort to block the re-licensing of Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant. In February 2010, numerous anti-nuclear activists and private citizens gathered in Montpelier, to be at hand as the Vermont Senate voted 26 to 4 against the \"Public Good\" certificate needed for continued operation of Vermont Yankee past 2012.\n\nIn April 2010 a dozen environmental groups (including Friends of the Earth, South Carolina's Sierra Club, Nuclear Watch South, the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, Georgia Women's Action for New Directions) stated that the proposed AP1000 reactor containment design is \"... inherently less safe than current reactors.\" Arnold Gundersen, a nuclear engineer, authored a 32-page report arguing that the new AP1000 reactors will be vulnerable to leaks caused by corrosion holes. There are plans to construct the Westinghouse AP1000 reactors at seven sites across the southeast, including Plant Vogtle in Burke County, Georgia.\n\nIn October 2010, Michael Mariotte, executive director of the Nuclear Information and Resource Service anti-nuclear group, predicted that the U.S. nuclear industry will not experience a nuclear renaissance, for the most simple of reasons: \"nuclear reactors make no economic sense\". The economic slump has driven down electricity demand and the price of competing energy sources, and Congress has failed to pass climate change legislation, making nuclear economics very difficult.\n\nGovernor-elect Peter Shumlin is a prominent opponent of the Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant and two days after Shumlin was elected in November 2010, Entergy put the plant up for sale.\n\nFollowing the 2011 Japanese nuclear accidents, activists who were involved in the movement's emergence (such as Graham Nash and Paul Gunter), suggest that Japan's nuclear crisis may rekindle an anti-nuclear protest movement in the United States. The aim, they say, is \"... not just to block the Obama administration's push for new nuclear construction, but to convince Americans that existing plants pose dangers.\"\n\nIn March 2011, 600 people gathered for a weekend protest outside the Vermont Yankee plant. The demonstration was held to show support for the thousands of Japanese people who are endangered by possible radiation from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.\n\nIn April 2011, Rochelle Becker, executive director of the Alliance for Nuclear Responsibility said that the United States should review its nuclear accident liability limits, in the light of the economic impacts of the Fukushima disaster.\n\nThe New England region has a long history of anti-nuclear activism and 75 people held a State House rally on April 6, 2011, to \"protest the region's aging nuclear plants and the increasing stockpile of radioactive spent fuel rods at them.\" The protest was held shortly before a State House hearing where legislators were scheduled to hear representatives of the region's three nuclear plants – Pilgrim in Plymouth, Vermont Yankee in Vernon, and Seabrook in New Hampshire—talk about the safety of their reactors in the light of the Japanese nuclear crisis. Vermont Yankee and Pilgrim have reactor designs similar to the crippled Japanese nuclear plants.\n\nAs of April 2011, a total of 45 groups and individuals from across the nation are formally asking the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to immediately suspend all licensing and other activities at 21 proposed nuclear reactor projects in 15 states until the NRC completes a thorough post-Fukushima reactor crisis examination. The petitioners also are asking the NRC to supplement its own investigation by establishing an independent commission comparable to that set up in the wake of the serious, though less severe, 1979 Three Mile Island accident. The petitioners include Public Citizen, Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, and San Luis Obispo Mothers for Peace.\n\nThirty two years after the No Nukes concert in New York, on August 7, 2011, a Musicians United for Safe Energy benefit concert was held Mountain View, California, to raise money for MUSE and for Japanese tsunami/nuclear disaster relief. The show was powered off-grid and \nartists included Jackson Browne, Bonnie Raitt, John Hall, Graham Nash, David Crosby, Stephen Stills, Kitaro, Jason Mraz, Sweet Honey and the Rock, the Doobie Brothers, Tom Morello, and Jonathan Wilson. \nIn February 2012, the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission approved the construction of two additional reactors at the Vogtle Electric Generating Plant, the first reactors to be approved in over 30 years since the Three Mile Island accident, but NRC Chairman Gregory Jaczko cast a dissenting vote citing safety concerns stemming from Japan's 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, and saying \"I cannot support issuing this license as if Fukushima never happened\". One week after Southern received the license to begin major construction on the two new reactors, a dozen environmental and anti-nuclear groups are suing to stop the Plant Vogtle expansion project, saying \"public safety and environmental problems since Japan's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear reactor accident have not been taken into account\".\n\nThe nuclear reactors to be built at Vogtle are new AP1000 third generation reactors, which are said to have safety improvements over older power reactors. However, John Ma, a senior structural engineer at the NRC, is concerned that some parts of the AP1000 steel skin are so brittle that the \"impact energy\" from a plane strike or storm driven projectile could shatter the wall. Edwin Lyman, a senior staff scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists, is concerned about the strength of the steel containment vessel and the concrete shield building around the AP1000. Arnold Gundersen, a nuclear engineer commissioned by several anti-nuclear groups, released a report which explored a hazard associated with the possible rusting through of the steel liner of the containment structure.\n\nIn March 2012, activists protested at San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station to mark the one-year anniversary of the nuclear meltdowns in Fukushima, Japan. Around 200 people rallied in San Onofre State Beach to listen to several speakers, including two Japanese residents who lived through the Fukushima meltdowns. \"Residents Organizing for Safe Environment\" and several other anti-nuclear energy organizations, organized the event and about 100 activists came in from San Diego.\n\nAs of March 2012, 23 aging nuclear power plants continue to operate, including some similar in design to those that melted down in Fukushima, such as Vermont Yankee, and Indian Point 2 just 24 miles north of New York City. Vermont Yankee has reached the end of its projected lifetime operation but, despite strong local opposition, the NRC favored extending its license; however, on August 27, 2013, Entergy (VT Yankee's owner) announced it was decommissioning the plant and that \"The station is expected to cease power production after its current fuel cycle and move to safe shutdown in the fourth quarter of 2014.\" On March 22, 2012, \"more than 1,000 people marched to the plant in protest, and about 130 engaging in civil disobedience were arrested\".\n\nAccording to a 2012 Pew Research Center poll, 44 percent of Americans favor and 49 percent oppose the promotion of increased use of nuclear power, while 69 percent favor increasing federal funding for research on wind power, solar power, and hydrogen energy technology.\n\nIn 2013, four aging, uncompetitive, reactors were permanently closed: San Onofre 2 and 3 in California, Crystal River 3 in Florida, and Kewaunee in Wisconsin. Vermont Yankee will close in 2014. New York State is seeking to close Indian Point Energy Center, in Buchanan, 30 miles from New York City.\n\nWith reference to the pro-nuclear film \"Pandora's Promise\", economics professor, John Quiggin, comments that it presents the environmental rationale for nuclear power, but that reviving nuclear power debates is a distraction, and the main problem with the nuclear option is that it is not economically viable. Quiggin says that we need more efficient energy use and more renewable energy commercialization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4640937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4640937", "title": "Arturo Valenzuela", "text": "Arturo Valenzuela\n\nArturo A. Valenzuela (born 23 January 1944) is a Chilean-American academic who was the United States Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs from November 5, 2009, until August 2011. His confirmation had been blocked by Senator Jim DeMint (R, SC) due to a dispute over President Barack Obama's approach to the 2009 Honduran constitutional crisis. He previously served as Professor of Government and Director of the Center for Latin American Studies in the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. He was previously Professor of Political Science and Director of the Council on Latin American Studies at Duke University. In May 2011 it was reported that Valenzuela would be leaving his government post later that summer to return to his academic activities. He officially left office at the end of August 2011.\n\nValenzuela was born Arturo Arms Valenzuela Bowie in Concepción, Chile to American Methodist missionaries Raymond Arms Valenzuela and Dorothy Denell Bowie Marsh. He spent his childhood in Concepción where he attended primary school at the \"Lycée Charles de Gaulle\", where he learned to speak French. In 1960, after his school was destroyed by the Great Chilean earthquake, he was sent by his family for a year to the United States. During the next eight years, he went back to visit his family in Chile only once. He earned a B.A. summa cum laude in Political Science and Religion from Drew University and in 1971 he obtained a Doctorate and a master's degree in Political Science from Columbia University.\n\nValenzuela is married to Kathryn Mudge. He has two children from his first marriage.\n\nIn 1992 Valenzuela was appointed Deputy Assistant Secretary for Inter-American Affairs in the United States Department of State by President Bill Clinton. His primary responsibility there was United States foreign policy towards Mexico. In President Clinton's second term in office, he was appointed Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Inter-American Affairs at the National Security Council at the White House.\n\nOn May 12, 2009 Valenzuela was nominated by President Barack Obama as Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs. The nomination was confirmed by the Senate on November 5, 2009.\n\nValenzuela has been a Visiting Scholar at Oxford University, the University of Sussex, the University of Florence (Italy) and the Catholic University of Chile. He has served on the board of directors of Drew University, the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI), the National Council of La Raza (NCLR) and the advisory boards of Americas Watch and the Institut des Amériques in Paris. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nFor his diplomatic contributions Valenzuela has been honored Brazil's Order of the Southern Cross and Colombia's Order of Boyaca.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15695703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15695703", "title": "Before Columbus Foundation", "text": "Before Columbus Foundation\n\nThe Before Columbus Foundation is a nonprofit organization founded in 1976 by Ishmael Reed, \"dedicated to the promotion and dissemination of contemporary American multicultural literature\". The Foundation makes annual awards for books published in the US during the previous year that make contributions to American multicultural literature.\n\nAdhering to its founding grant's requirement that he have a partner, Reed chose poet Victor Hernández Cruz, now a chancellor of the Academy of American Poets. Next to become directors were Shawn Wong, novelist and former chair of the English Department at the University of Washington in Seattle, and Presidential medal recipient Rudolfo Anaya. The foundation, named after Ivan van Sertima's book \"They Came before Columbus\" (1976), began as a multi-cultural distribution project, but evolved into a service organization devoted to the recognition of Hispanic, African-American, and Native American authors whose literature of quality might be neglected by the literary mainstream, which, according to the directors, continues to be segregated and fifty years behind the south in terms of diversity - a mainstream that limits its inclusion of minorities to tokenism. Through classrooms, poetry readings, symposia, and publications the foundation has met this goal.\nIn 1980, Ishmael Reed suggested that there be an American Book Awards to challenge the lack of diversity in the Pulitzer Prizes and the National Book Awards. The first awards ceremony was held at The West Side Community Center. In the following year, Public Theater director Joseph Papp hosted the American Book Awards in New York. The master of ceremonies was Quincy Troupe. Among the presenters were Nobel Laureate Toni Morrison and writer Donald Barthelme. The American Book Awards have been held in Los Angeles, Chicago, New Orleans, Seattle, San Francisco, Oakland, Miami, and Washington, D.C., where they were held at the National Press Club, and arranged by the late Daniel Shore. Awards are given annually for books published in the US during the previous year that make contributions to American multicultural literature.\n\nIn 1992, the Beyond Columbus Foundation published two anthologies of award-winning selections (one poetry and one fiction). Though severely underfunded, it has survived through what Executive Director Gundars Strads called \"blind persistence\". Its directors are drawn from the Black, Hispanic, Italian, Irish and Jewish communities. One of the current directors is Juan Felipe Herrera, Poet Laureate of California since 2012 and US Poet Laureate since 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "49520565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49520565", "title": "Bernie Bro", "text": "Bernie Bro\n\n\"Bernie Bro\" (sometimes spelled \"Berniebro\"; collective Bernie Bros) is a pejorative label applied to some supporters of the 2016 U.S. Democratic presidential primary candidate Bernie Sanders.\n\nRobinson Meyer, a writer for \"The Atlantic\", coined the term \"Bernie bro\" in an October 17, 2015 article to describe a phenomenon in which some young, white, progressive men were \"hectoring their friends\" on Facebook to support Sanders.\n\nIn the article, Meyer characterized the Bernie Bro as \"male... white; well-educated; middle-class (or, delicately, 'upper middle-class'); and aware of NPR podcasts and jangly bearded bands.\" Furthermore, according to Meyer, \"[t]he Berniebro asserts that this country needs highly principled, pie-in-the-sky progressive policies, regardless of how likely they are to become legislation. The Berniebro supports free college for all and a $15 minimum wage... The Berniebro voted for Barack Obama in 2012. And 2008, if the Berniebro was old enough to vote.\" Meyer's story was shared 28,000 times on Facebook, bringing the term to public attention.\n\n\"USA Today\" describes Bernie Bros as \"the unsanctioned shock troops of Bernie Sanders' vaunted online army, digital rogues who've plagued Hillary Clinton's presidential bid and embarrassed Sanders' campaign.\"\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" described the Bros as generally \"white, male\" Sanders supporters who troll Clinton supporters, \"leaving vitriolic comments on social media accounts and created memes showing Mrs. Clinton as trying too hard to be cool.\"\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" calls them \"online trolls... who attack journalists, politicians and fellow voters they perceive to be pro-Clinton with misogynistic, often vulgar attacks.\"\n\nMTV correspondent Jamil Smith described these people as engaging in \"trolling, misogyny, and 'hipster racism.'\" \"Washington Post\" reporter Janell Ross described some pro-Sanders online activists as \"angry people who sometimes engage in or embrace bigotry,\" and believed they demonstrated an attitude she called \"offensively dismissive, superior, let-us-tell-you-black-voters-what-you-need-and-how-you-should-vote commentary from some subset of Sanders supporters.\"\n\nIn a February 2016 interview with CNN's \"State of the Union\", Sanders criticized \"Bernie Bros\" for their sexist attacks against rival Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. \"It's disgusting. [...] Anybody who is supporting me and who is doing sexist things, we don't want them. I don't want them. That is not what this campaign is about.\"\n\nIn February, Brian Fallon, Clinton's press secretary, characterized the Bernie Bros as \"nasty and vitriolic.\" Bill Clinton accused the Bernie Bros as carrying out \"vicious trolling and attacks that are literally too profane ... not to mention sexist.\"\n\nOnline reaction to the perceived Bernie Bro phenomenon from Clinton supporters ranged from organizational action to the production of memes to counter media narratives surrounding the campaign. Bros4Hillary, an advocacy group touting inclusiveness and progressive ideals as their central tenets, was created with the goal of providing a direct response to the perceived misogynistic and white nationalist overtures espoused by Hillary Clinton's opponents. Following the 2016 presidential election, the group was renamed Bros4America, and their mission statement condemns the \"misogyny and white male privilege exemplified by the 'BernieBros' movement\".\n\nIn May 2016, historian Joshua M. Zeitz suggested that \"Bernie's Bros\" might follow a pattern seen in the 1968 and 1980 elections in which Eugene McCarthy and Ted Kennedy won large numbers of votes from angry Democratic voters who, when their candidate failed to win the Party's nomination, switched and voted for the Republican in November.\n\nLeah McElrath wrote in 2017 that the sexist responses on Twitter purportedly from male Sanders supporters may have been actually Russian bots intended to disrupt the election, a suggestion supported in part by testimony at the Senate Intelligence Committee hearings on Russian election interference. Indictments stemming from the Mueller investigation in February 2018 said that the Russians \"engaged in operations primarily intended to communicate derogatory information about Hillary Clinton, to denigrate other candidates such as Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, and to support Bernie Sanders and then-candidate Donald Trump.\"\n\nIn an interview with Thom Hartmann, state Senator Nina Turner (a former surrogate for Senator Bernie Sanders) affirmed that she was uncomfortable with the term; \"I just think it is really hyped by the Clinton campaign. I mean, both candidates have people who really, really support them and sometimes in ways that are not nice. But it's the same thing, if people want to research this, it's the same thing that the Clinton campaign did to President, then Senator, Obama. I think they were called 'Obama Boys.' So it's really the same stuff recycled that there are a group of men out there that are rabid and they're sexist and they're really against Secretary Clinton.\"\n\nIn January 2016, \"The Intercept\" journalist Glenn Greenwald called the Bernie Bro narrative a \"cheap campaign tactic\" and a \"journalistic disgrace.\" He pointed to the millions of women who supported Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton with \"one has to be willing to belittle the views and erase the existence of a huge number of American women to wield this 'Bernie Bro' smear.\" He also pointed to the lack of evidence for the phenomenon outside of the typical vitriol associated with online forums. He summarized the narrative's purpose as follows: \"The goal is to inherently delegitimize all critics of Hillary Clinton by accusing them of, or at least associating them with, sexism, thus distracting attention away from Clinton's policy views, funding, and political history and directing it toward the online behavior of anonymous, random, isolated people on the internet claiming to be Sanders supporters.\"\n\nNathan Wellman wrote in U.S. Uncut that users of the term \"are essentially erasing the contributions of women and people of color to the Bernie Sanders campaign to propagate their own narrative, rendering them as invisible people. This is one of the oldest forms of violence perpetuated by white people of privilege.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53869348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53869348", "title": "Bruh Rabbit and the Tar Baby Girl", "text": "Bruh Rabbit and the Tar Baby Girl\n\nBruh Rabbit and the Tar Baby Girl is a 2003 picture book by Virginia Hamilton and illustrated by James Ransome. It is a retelling by Hamilton, in the Gullah dialect, of the classic story of Bruh Rabbit outwitting Bruh Wolf.\n\n\"BookList\", in a review of \"Bruh Rabbit and the Tar Baby Girl\", wrote \"In this version of the beloved Tar Baby trickster story, she drew on Gullah folklore from the Sea Islands of South Carolina. Her rhythmic, immediate version is well matched by Ransome's paintings, both cozy and exciting, which extend the fun with beautiful farmland scenes at dayclean (dawn) and daylean (evening) picturing the wily rabbit thief in human clothes repeatedly outwitting the wolf.\" and the \"School Library Journal\" described it as \"meticulously paced, lyrical, hilarious, and a joy to read aloud.\" with \"lush watercolors [that] suit the story perfectly\".\n\n\"Bruh Rabbit and the Tar Baby Girl\" has also been reviewed by \"The Horn Book Magazine\", \"Kirkus Reviews\", and \"Publishers Weekly\", and the \"Florida Media Quarterly\".\n\nIt is a 2004 ALA Notable Book for children, and a 2004 CCBC Choices book. \n"}
{"id": "14339822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14339822", "title": "Carl Sandburg bibliography", "text": "Carl Sandburg bibliography\n\nCarl Sandburg Bibliography\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51269288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51269288", "title": "Cross of Adelheid", "text": "Cross of Adelheid\n\nThe Cross of Adelheid is an 11th and 12th century reliquary in the form of a crux gemmata. It is held in Saint Paul's Abbey, Lavanttal. It was commissioned by Adelheid, daughter of Rudolf of Rheinfelden, passing to St. Blaise Abbey in the 19th century before coming to its present home. It is made of a wooden core covered with gilded silver plate. On the front are gems, pearls and precious stones. It is 82.9 cm high, 65.4 cm wide and 7.4 to 7.8 cm deep.\n\n"}
{"id": "37596594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37596594", "title": "D. G. Government Arts College for Women", "text": "D. G. Government Arts College for Women\n\nD. G. Government Arts College for Women is an arts college located in the town of Mayiladuthurai in Tamil Nadu, India. It is affiliated to the Bharathidasan University.\n\n"}
{"id": "20845234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20845234", "title": "Dagmar C. G. Lorenz", "text": "Dagmar C. G. Lorenz\n\nDagmar C. G. Lorenz is Professor of German studies and from 2006 to 2010 served as Director of Jewish Studies at the University of Illinois at Chicago. She teaches and publishes on Austrian, German and German-Jewish literature and culture, and Holocaust Studies. She was born in Goslar, West Germany and began her studies (German, English, Philosophy, Pedagogy) at the University of Goettingen (Germany). She completed her Ph.D. in German (1973) and her MA in English (1974) at the University of Cincinnati. She taught at Rutgers University/Douglass College (1974/5), Ohio State University, Columbus (1975-1982 Assistant Professor; 1982-1988 Associate Professor; 1989-1998 Professor), University of Illinois at Chicago (1998-present; Interim Head, Germanic Studies 2002-2003), and held a Visiting Professorship at the University of Chicago (2000). She served as the editor of The German Quarterly (1997-2003) and held offices with MLA, GSA, MALCA, and AATG.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31302632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31302632", "title": "Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto", "text": "Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto\n\nDella mercatura e del mercante perfetto written by Benedetto Cotrugli around 1400 was the first bookkeeping manuscript and trade manual. The title has been translated in English by the alternate names of \"Of commerce and the perfect merchant\", \"On merchantry and the perfect merchant\", and \"On trade and the perfect dealer.\"\n\nSeveral historians show that, since the manuscript was written in 1458, it is the oldest known manuscript on the double-entry bookkeeping system, and, as such, predates Luca Pacioli's book by at least 36 years. It is widely thought that the reason why Luca Pacioli (1445–1517) received credit as the father of accounting is because Cotrugli's work was not officially published until 1573. An Italian version was published in Venice in 1573 by Franciscus Patricius. A French translation of this manuscript was published in Lyon in 1613 under the title \"Parfait négociant.\"\n\nAn early copy of \"Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto\" from the end of the fifteenth century is at the National Library of Malta. Another early copy is at Biblioteca Marciana in Venice.\nThe first English translation of the Libro de l'arte de la mercatura (The Book of the Art of Trade) edited by Carlo Carraro and Giovanni Favero, with a foreword by Niall Ferguson, Professor of History at Harvard University, has been published by Palgrave Mcmillan in 2017, based on the critical edition of the original manuscripts made by Vera Ribaudo, University of Venice, published on May 2016 by Edizioni Cà Foscari, Venice. \n\nThe manuscript contains four books. The first is of the origin, form, and essence of being a merchant. The second talks of a merchant's religious commitment. The third is of moral virtues and policies. The fourth is administration of his home and family, and his economic matters.\n\nAt the time of the manuscript merchandising was regarded as an art. The \"Perfect Merchant\" or \"Perfect Dealer\" was a man of culture motivated \nto good moral conduct and honest transactions to everyone he encountered. He had to be very sensitive to local interests in places where he conducted business. He had to know how to assess the political situation and the customary laws in order to successfully conduct his business. Kotruljević wrote in his bookkeeping and merchandising trade manual that not only must a merchant be a bookkeeper-accountant, but that he must also be a good writer, a rhetorician and a man of letters being diplomatic all the while.\n\nHe contrasted the \"Perfect Merchant\" to sailors and soldiers by saying that they were many times naive of these points. He said they were of such dull mind that when they would drink in a tavern and buy bread at a market they often had delusions of grandeur and were not very diplomatic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1388033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1388033", "title": "Drawl", "text": "Drawl\n\nA drawl is a perceived feature of some varieties of spoken English, and generally indicates longer vowel sounds and diphthongs. Varieties of English which are said to feature pronounced drawls include Southern American English, Broad Australian English, and Broad New Zealand English.\n\nThe \"Southern Drawl\", or the diphthongization or triphthongization, of the traditional short front vowels as in the words \"pat\", \"pet\", and \"pit\": these develop a glide up from their original starting position to and, in some cases, back down to schwa.\n\nThe \"cavalry drawl\" was a phenomenon of English-speaking officers of England, noted around 1840. Officers in smart cavalry regiments would talk affecting a drawling delivery, and lisping.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "636147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636147", "title": "General will", "text": "General will\n\nIn political philosophy, the general will () is the will of the people as a whole. The term was made famous by 18th-century French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau.\n\nThe phrase \"general will,\" as Rousseau used it, occurs in Article Six of the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen\" (French: \"Déclaration des droits de l'Homme et du citoyen\"), composed in 1789 during the French Revolution:The law is the expression of the general will. All citizens have the right to contribute personally, or through their representatives, to its formation. It must be the same for all, whether it protects or punishes. All citizens, being equal in its eyes, are equally admissible to all public dignities, positions, and employments, according to their capacities, and without any other distinction than that of their virtues and their talents.\n\nJames Swenson writes: To my knowledge, the only time Rousseau actually uses the formulation \"expression of the general will\" is in a passage of the \"Discours sur l'économie politique\", whose content renders it little susceptible of celebrity. [...] But it is indeed a faithful summary of his doctrine, faithful enough that commentators frequently adopt it without any hesitation. Among Rousseau's definitions of law, the textually closest variant can be found in a passage of the \"Lettres écrites de la montagne\" summarizing the argument of \"Du contrat social\", in which law is defined as \"a public and solemn declaration of the general will on an object of common interest.\"\n\nAs used by Rousseau, the \"general will\" is considered by some identical to the rule of law, and to Spinoza's \"mens una\".\n\nThe notion of the general will is wholly central to Rousseau's theory of political legitimacy. [...] It is, however, an unfortunately obscure and controversial notion. Some commentators see it as no more than the dictatorship of the proletariat or the tyranny of the urban poor (such as may perhaps be seen in the French Revolution). Such was not Rousseau's meaning. This is clear from the \"Discourse on Political Economy\", where Rousseau emphasizes that the general will exists to protect individuals against the mass, not to require them to be sacrificed to it. He is, of course, sharply aware that men have selfish and sectional interests which will lead them to try to oppress others. It is for this reason that loyalty to the good of all alike must be a supreme (although not exclusive) commitment by everyone, not only if a truly general will is to be heeded but also if it is to be formulated successfully in the first place\".\n\nEarly critics of Rousseau included Benjamin Constant and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Hegel argued that, because it lacked any grounding in an objective ideal of reason, Rousseau's account of the general will ineluctably lead to the Reign of Terror. Constant also blamed Rousseau for the excesses of the French Revolution, and he rejected the total subordination of the citizen-subjects to the determinations of the general will.\n\nIn 1952 Jacob Talmon characterized Rousseau's \"general will\" as leading to a totalitarian democracy because, Talmon argued, the state subjected its citizens to the supposedly infallible will of the majority. Another writer of the period, liberal theorist Karl Popper, also interpreted Rousseau in this way, while Bertrand Russell warned that \"the doctrine of general will ... made possible the mystic identification of a leader with its people, which has no need of confirmation by so mundane an apparatus as the ballot box.\" Other prominent critics include Isaiah Berlin who argued that Rousseau's association of freedom with obedience to the General Will allowed totalitarian leaders to defend oppression in the name of freedom, and made Rousseau \"one of the most sinister and formidable enemies of liberty in the whole history of human thought.\"\n\nSome Rousseau scholars, however, such as his biographer and editor Maurice Cranston, and Ralph Leigh, editor of Rousseau's correspondence, do not consider Talmon's 1950s \"totalitarian thesis\" as sustainable.\n\nSupporters of Rousseau argued that Rousseau was not alone among republican political theorists in thinking that small, homogeneous states were best suited to maintaining the freedom of their citizens. Montesquieu and Machiavelli were also of this opinion. Furthermore, Rousseau envisioned his \"Social Contract\" as part of a projected larger work on political philosophy, which would have dealt with issues in larger states. Some of his later writings, such as his \"Discourse on Political Economy\", his proposals for a Constitution of Poland, and his essay on maintaining perpetual peace, in which he recommends a federated European Union, gave an idea of the future direction of his thought.\n\nHis defenders also argued Rousseau is one of the great prose stylists and because of his penchant for the paradoxical effect obtained by stating something strongly and then going on to qualify or negate it, it is easy to misrepresent his ideas by taking them out of context.\n\nRousseau was also a great synthesizer who was deeply engaged in a dialog with his contemporaries and with the writers of the past, such as the theorists of Natural Law, Hobbes and Grotius. Like \"the body politic\", \"the general will\" was a term of art and was not invented by Rousseau, though admittedly Rousseau did not always go out of his way to explicitly acknowledge his debt to the jurists and theologians who influenced him. Prior to Rousseau, the phrase \"general will\" referred explicitly to the general (as opposed to the particular) will or \"volition\" (as it is sometimes translated) of the Deity. It occurs in the theological writings of Malebranche, who had picked it up from Pascal, and in the writings of Malebranche's pupil, Montesquieu, who contrasted \"volonté particulière\" and \"volonté générale\" in a secular sense in his most celebrated chapter (Chapter XI) of \"De L'Esprit des Lois\" (1748). In his \"Discourse on Political Economy\", Rousseau explicitly credits Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\" article \"Droit Naturel\" as the source of \"the luminous concept\" of the general will, of which he maintains his own thoughts are simply a development. Montesquieu, Diderot, and Rousseau's innovation was to use the term in a secular rather than theological sense.\n\nDiderot on the General Will [emphasis added]:\nEVERYTHING you conceive, everything you contemplate, will be good, great, elevated, sublime, if it accords with \"the general and common interest\". There is no quality essential to your species apart from that which you demand from all your fellow men to ensure your happiness and theirs . . . . [D]o not ever lose sight of it, or else you will find that your comprehension of the notions of goodness, justice, humanity and virtue grow dim. Say to yourself often, “I am a man, and I have no other truly inalienable natural rights except those of humanity.” \nBut, you will ask, in what does this general will reside? Where can I consult it? [...] [The answer is:] In the principles of prescribed law of all civilized nations, in the social practices of savage and barbarous peoples; in the tacit agreements obtaining amongst the enemies of mankind; and even in those two emotions — indignation and resentment — which nature has extended as far as animals to compensate for social laws and public retributions. --Denis Diderot, “\"Droit Naturel\"” article in the \"Encyclopédie\".\nRousseau on the General Will [emphasis added]:AS long as several men assembled together consider themselves as a single body, they have only \"one will\" which is directed towards their common preservation and general well-being. Then, all the animating forces of the state are vigorous and simple, and its principles are clear and luminous; it has no incompatible or conflicting interests; the \"common good\" makes itself so manifestly evident that only common sense is needed to discern it. Peace, unity and equality are the enemies of political sophistication. Upright and simple men are difficult to deceive precisely because of their simplicity; stratagems and clever arguments do not prevail upon them, they are not indeed subtle enough to be dupes. When we see among the happiest people in the world bands of peasants regulating the affairs of state under an oak tree, and always acting wisely, can we help feeling a certain contempt for the refinements of other nations, which employ so much skill and effort to make themselves at once illustrious and wretched?\nA state thus governed needs very few laws [...]\nHowever, when the social tie begins to slacken and the state to weaken, when particular interests begin to make themselves felt and sectional societies begin to exert an influence over the greater society, the \"common interest\" then becomes corrupted and meets opposition, voting is no longer unanimous; the general will is no longer the will of all; contradictions and disputes arise, and even the best opinion is not allowed to prevail unchallenged.\"For this reason the sensible rule for regulating public assemblies is one intended not so much to uphold the general will there, as to ensure that it is always questioned and always responds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2008998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008998", "title": "Giant Swing", "text": "Giant Swing\n\nThe Giant Swing (, , ) is a religious structure in Phra Nakhon, Bangkok, Thailand. Located in front of Wat Suthat, it was formerly used in an old Brahmin ceremony, and is one of Bangkok's tourist attractions.\nThe Giant Swing was constructed in 1784 in front of the Devasathan shrine by King Rama I. During the reign of Rama II the swing ceremony was discontinued as the swing had become structurally damaged by lightning. In 1920 it was renovated and moved to its current location in order to make space for a gas plant. The ceremony was again performed until 1935, when it was discontinued after several fatal accidents.\n\nThe last renovations were done in 1959, and after 45 years of exposure to the elements the wooden pillars were showing signs of serious damage. A major reconstruction began in April 2005. Six teak tree trunks were used. The two used for the main structure of the swing are over 3.5 m in circumference and over 30m in height. The remaining four are used for support and are 2.30 m in circumference and 20 m in height. The swing was taken down in late October 2006 and the work finished in December of the same year. The rebuilt swing was dedicated in royal ceremonies presided over by King Bhumibol Adulyadej in September 2007. The timbers of the original swing are preserved in the Bangkok National Museum.\n\nIn 2005, the Giant Swing, together with Wat Suthat, was proposed as a future UNESCO World Heritage site.\n\nWat Suthat Thep Wararam\nWat Suthat Thep Wararam, commonly shortened to \"Wat Suthat\", is an important temple in Thailand. Inside the grand hall is a Phra Sri Sagaya Munee, its principal Buddha image which was acquired from Wat Mahathat in Sukhothai. Wat Suthat was built by King Rama I in the center of his capital, but it was completed in the reign of Rama III. Many people often make pilgrimages to worship the Buddha especially on holy days such as Visakha Bucha Day and Magha Bucha Day.\n\nSarnChoa Po Seu or Tiger God Shrine\nIn the quarter there is also a well known and high regarded Chinese shrine, Sarn Choa Po Seu ('tiger shrine'). Originally it was a building on Bamrungmueng Road where the big Chinese communities were. Later, King Rama V expanded the road and had the shrine relocated to the current location on Ta Nao Road near WatMahanaparam. The site is a place of worship for Thai and Chinese people seeking success in career, money, love, and infant fertility.\n\nIt was built in King Rama III reign which is 1834 and now.. Tiger God Shrine is one of the most ancient and famous shrines in Thailand. Moreover, this shrine has beautiful interior design and has some antiquities. Most people come to pay respect to \"Tua Lao Aie\", a Chinese God to have good fortune, especially on Chinese New Year's Day.\n\nLanKonMueng\nAt the heart of the quarter is LanKonMueng in front of city hall. Every evening, this is the recreational area of the locals where they can exercise such as dance aerobics, jogging, stroll around, gather or just relax, bring children or pets out for a walk and enjoy the breeze.\n\nDevasathan\nDevasathan Shrine is the most important religious and ancient place for Brahmin-Hindu in Thailand. It was built in 1784. which is in King Rama I's reign. According to ancient tradition, it was built for holding officiating religious ceremony in the past. Devasathan Shrine has three important sanctuaries which are Shiva sanctuary, Ganesha sanctuary, and Narayana sanctuary.\n\nAn annual swinging ceremony known as \"Triyampavai-Tripavai\" was held at Giant Swings of major cities until 1935, when it was abolished for safety reasons. The name of the ceremony was derived from the names of two Tamil language Hindu chants: \"Thiruvempavai\" (a Shaivite hymn by Manikkavacakar) and \"Thiruppavai\" (a Vaishnavite hymn by Andal). Among Thai people, the ceremony was popularly known as \"Lo Jin Ja\" or \"Lo-Chin-Cha\" (\"pulling the swing\"). It is known that Tamil verses from \"Thiruvempavai\" — \"poet pratu sivalai\" (\"opening the portals of Shiva's home\") — were recited at this ceremony, as well as the coronation ceremony of the Thai king. According to T.P. Meenakshisundaram, the name of the festival indicates that Thiruppavai might have been recited as well.\n\nAccording to an ancient Hindu epic, after Brahma created the world he sent Shiva to look after it. When Shiva descended to the earth, Naga serpents wrapped around the mountains in order to keep the earth in place. After Shiva found the earth solid, the Nagas moved to the seas in celebration. The Swing Ceremony was a re-enactment of this. The pillars of the Giant Swing represented the mountains, while the circular base of the swing represented the earth and the seas. In the ceremony Brahmins would swing, trying to grab a bag of coins placed on one of the pillars.\n\nYou can go to Giant Swing by bus number 12, 35, 42, and 508. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30966537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30966537", "title": "Gilgal I", "text": "Gilgal I\n\nGilgal I () is an archaeological site in the Jordan Valley, West Bank, dated to the Neolithic period. The site is located eight miles north of ancient Jericho. The features and artifacts unearthed at Gilgal I shed important light on agriculture in the Levant.\n\nAccording to the Bible, Gilgal is the camp where Joshua and the children of Israel first settled upon entering the Promised Land (Joshua 5:9).\n\nGilgal I was first excavated by Tamar Noy in 1979. Further excavations were conducted by Ofer Bar-Yosef of Harvard University and Mordechai E. Kislev and Anat Hartmann of Bar-Ilan University. They found caches of selectively propagated fig seeds, stored together with wild barley, wild oat, and acorns in quantities too large to be accounted for even by intensive gathering, at strata datable c. 11,000 years ago. The dig also unearthed the remains of thirteen round buildings made of mud and rock.\n\nSome of the plants tried and then abandoned during the Neolithic period in the Ancient Near East, at sites like Gilgal I, were later successfully domesticated in other parts of the world. At Gilgal, archaeologists found ancient carbonized figs stored in an 11,400-year-old house which appear to be a mutant \"parthenocarpic\" variety, bred for human consumption.\n\nThe figs discovered at Gilgal lack embryonic seeds, a mutation that does not survive in nature more than a single generation. This suggests that the fig trees at Gilgal were artificially maintained by planting live branches in the ground, a horticultural technique known as vegetative propagation. Some fig remains recovered from other sites in the Middle East appear to be of the Gilgal variety.\n\nPre-Pottery Neolithic A (PPNA) baked clay objects were discovered at Gilgal I, most of them figurines and symbolic artifacts. As some of the earliest ceramic findings in the Levant, they are of interest to archaeologists for their artistic, stylistic, symbolic and technological characteristics.\n\nThe Moreshet Foundation Israel (MHF Israel) is developing the Gilgal Education Center in the Jordan Valley, a center open to the public that will highlight the importance of this archaeological site.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "533221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533221", "title": "Gordon Square", "text": "Gordon Square\n\nGordon Square is part of the Bedford Estate in Bloomsbury, London, United Kingdom (postal district WC1). \n\nThe square was developed by master builder Thomas Cubitt in the 1820s, as one of a pair with Tavistock Square, which is a block away and has the same dimensions. As with most London squares the central garden was originally for the private use of the residents of the surrounding houses, but it now belongs to the University of London and is open to the public. The square is named after the second wife of the 6th Duke of Bedford, Lady Georgiana Gordon, daughter of Alexander Gordon, 4th Duke of Gordon. The university owns many of the buildings in the square and in early 2005 it submitted an application for a refurbishment of the square, including the reinstatement of railings similar to the originals. The work was completed in 2007. The west side of the square is dominated by the listed church of \"Christ the King\" and next to it the home of Dr Williams's Library.\n\nThe Institute of Archaeology, a department of University College London, is on the north side of the square. The Campaign for Science and Engineering and UCL Urban Laboratory resides in Gordon House, at the square's north-west corner. Gordon Street leads from the north-west corner with the Bloomsbury Theatre close by. The Warburg Institute (part of the School of Advanced Study) is located on the south-west corner of the square, across Tavistock Place.\n\nNos. 16–26, on the western side of the Square, were not completed until 1855, and they represent some of the last buildings created by Thomas Cubitt. They now mostly house UCL academic departments. For example, No. 22 houses the Department of Science and Technology Studies.\n\nThe economist John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946) lived at 46 Gordon Square, marked by a blue plaque. Before Keynes moved in, the same house was occupied by a young Virginia Woolf (1882-1941) and her siblings (including the noted painter and interior designer Vanessa Bell) and frequented by other members of the Bloomsbury Group. The writer and biographer Lytton Strachey lived at No. 51. Houses 43 to 46 are now occupied by the School of Arts, Birkbeck, University of London.\n\nOther squares on the Bedford Estate in Bloomsbury included:\n\n"}
{"id": "6098140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6098140", "title": "Greenshirts (National Corporate Party)", "text": "Greenshirts (National Corporate Party)\n\nThe Greenshirts were members of the fascist National Corporate Party (NCP) in Ireland in the 1930s. The NCP was founded by Eoin O'Duffy after he broke from the Fine Gael party in 1935. The Greenshirts were different from the better known Blueshirts, O'Duffy's followers before he left Fine Gael. Only eighty of the Blueshirts later became Greenshirts. It was an influence to a later fascist party, Ailtirí na hAiséirghe.\n\nIn 1936 O'Duffy led a volunteer Irish Brigade to fight for the Nationalists in the Spanish Civil War, and retired on his return in 1937. Without him, both the Greenshirts and NCP faded away.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27338862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27338862", "title": "Head of a Warrior", "text": "Head of a Warrior\n\nThe Head of a Warrior is a recurring theme in art. The heads vary a great deal across time and artistic style, but all present an intriguing look into both the soldier and the artist of the day.\n\n"}
{"id": "20440423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20440423", "title": "History of tuberculosis", "text": "History of tuberculosis\n\nConsumption, phthisis and the White Plague are all terms used to refer to tuberculosis throughout history. It is generally accepted that \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" originated from other, more primitive organisms of the same genus \"Mycobacterium\". In 2014, results of a new DNA study of a tuberculosis genome reconstructed from remains in southern Peru suggest that human tuberculosis is less than 6,000 years old. Even if researchers theorize that humans first acquired it in Africa about 5,000 years ago, there is evidence that the first tuberculosis infection happened about 9,000 years ago. It spread to other humans along trade routes. It also spread to domesticated animals in Africa, such as goats and cows. Seals and sea lions that bred on African beaches are believed to have acquired the disease and carried it across the Atlantic to South America. Hunters would have been the first humans to contract the disease there.\n\nScientific work investigating the evolutionary origins of the \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" complex has concluded that the most recent common ancestor of the complex was a human-specific pathogen, which underwent a population bottleneck. Analysis of mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units has allowed dating of the bottleneck to approximately 40,000 years ago, which corresponds to the period subsequent to the expansion of \"Homo sapiens sapiens\" out of Africa. This analysis of mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units also dated the \"Mycobacterium bovis\" lineage as dispersing approximately 6,000 years ago, which may be linked to animal domestication and early farming.\n\nHuman bones from the Neolithic show a presence of the bacteria. There have also been a claim of evidence of lesions characteristic of tuberculosis in a 500,000 years old Homo erectus fossile, although this finding is controversial.\n\nResults of a genome study reported in 2014 suggest that tuberculosis is newer than previously thought. Scientists were able to recreate the genome of the bacteria from remains of 1,000-year-old skeletons in southern Peru. In dating the DNA, they found it was less than 6,000 years old. They also found it related most closely to a tuberculosis strain in seals, and have theorized that these animals were the mode of transmission from Africa to South America. The team from University of Tubingen believe that humans acquired the disease in Africa about 5,000 years ago. Their domesticated animals, such as goats and cows, contracted it from them. Seals acquired it when coming up on African beaches for breeding, and carried it across the Atlantic. In addition, TB spread via humans on the trade routes of the Old World. Other researchers have argued there is other evidence that suggests the tuberculosis bacteria is older than 6,000 years. This TB strain found in Peru is different from that prevalent today in the Americas, which is more closely related to a later Eurasian strain likely brought by European colonists. However, this result is criticised by other experts from the field, for instance because there is evidence of the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in 9000 year old skeletal remains.\n\nAlthough relatively little is known about its frequency before the 19th century, its incidence is thought to have peaked between the end of the 18th century and the end of the 19th century. Over time, the various cultures of the world gave the illness different names: \"phthisis\" (Greek), \"consumptione\" (Latin), \"yaksma\" (India), and \"chaky oncay\" (Incan), each of which make reference to the \"drying\" or \"consuming\" affect of the illness, cachexia.\n\nIn the 19th century, TB's high mortality rate among young and middle-aged adults and the surge of Romanticism, which stressed feeling over reason, caused many to refer to the disease as the \"romantic disease\".\n\nIn 2008, evidence for tuberculosis infection was discovered in human remains from the Neolithic era dating from 9,000 years ago, in Atlit Yam, a settlement in the eastern Mediterranean. This finding was confirmed by morphological and molecular methods; to date it is the oldest evidence of tuberculosis infection in humans.\n\nEvidence of the infection in humans was also found in a cemetery near Heidelberg, in the Neolithic bone remains that show evidence of the type of angulation often seen with spinal tuberculosis. Some authors call tuberculosis the first disease known to mankind.\n\nSigns of the disease have also been found in Egyptian mummies dated between 3000 and 2400 BC. The most convincing case was found in the mummy of priest Nesperehen, discovered by Grebart in 1881, which featured evidence of spinal tuberculosis with the characteristic psoas abscesses. Similar features were discovered on other mummies like that of the priest Philoc and throughout the cemeteries of Thebes. It appears likely that Akhenaten and his wife Nefertiti both died from tuberculosis, and evidence indicates that hospitals for tuberculosis existed in Egypt as early as 1500 BC.\n\nThe Ebers papyrus, an important Egyptian medical treatise from around 1550 BC, describes a pulmonary consumption associated with the cervical lymph nodes. It recommended that it be treated with the surgical lancing of the cyst and the application of a ground mixture of acacia seyal, peas, fruits, animal blood, insect blood, honey and salt.\n\nThe Old Testament mentions a consumptive illness that would affect the Jewish people if they stray from God. It is listed in the section of curses given before they enter the land of Canaan.\n\nThe first references to tuberculosis in non-European civilization is found in the Vedas. The oldest of them (Rigveda, 1500 BC) calls the disease \"yaksma\". The Atharvaveda calls it \"balasa\". It is in the Atharvaveda that the first description of scrofula is given. The \"Sushruta Samhita\", written around 600 BC, recommends that the disease be treated with breast milk, various meats, alcohol and rest. The Yajurveda advises sufferers to move to higher altitudes.\n\nThe Classical Chinese word \"ao\" 癆 \"consumption; tuberculosis\" was the common name in traditional Chinese medicine and \"fèijiéhé\" 肺結核 (lit. \"lung knot kernel\") \"pulmonary tuberculosis\" is the modern medical term. \"Lao\" is compounded in names like \"xulao\" 虛癆 with \"empty; void\", \"láobìng\" 癆病 with \"sickness\", \"láozhài\" 癆瘵 with \"[archaic] sickness\", and \"feilao\" 肺癆 with \"lungs\". Zhang and Unschuld explain that the medical term \"xulao\" 虛癆 \"depletion exhaustion\" includes infectious and consumptive pathologies, such as \"laozhai\" 癆瘵 \"exhaustion with consumption\" or \"laozhaichong\" 癆瘵蟲 \"exhaustion consumption bugs/worms\". They retrospectively identify \"feilao\" 肺癆 \"lung exhaustion\" and infectious \"feilao chuanshi\" 肺癆傳尸 \"lung exhaustion by corpse [evil] transmission as \"consumption/tuberculosis\". Describing foreign loanwords in early medical terminology, Zhang and Unschuld note the phonetic similarity between Chinese \"feixiao\" 肺消 (from Old Chinese \"**pʰot-ssew\") \"lung consumption\" and ancient Greek \"phthisis\" \"pulmonary tuberculosis\".\n\nThe (c. 400 BCE – 260 CE) \"Huangdi Neijing\" classic Chinese medical text, traditionally attributed to the mythical Yellow Emperor, describes a disease believed to be tuberculosis, called \"xulao bing\" (虛癆病 \"weak consumptive disease\"), characterized by persistent cough, abnormal appearance, fever, a weak and fast pulse, chest obstructions, and shortness of breath.\n\nThe \"Huangdi Neijing\" describes an incurable disease called \"huaifu\" 壞府 \"bad palace\", which commentators interpret as tuberculous. \"As for a string which is cut, its sound is hoarse. As for wood which has become old, its leaves are shed. As for a disease which is in the depth [of the body], the sound it [generates] is hiccup. When a man has these three [states], this is called 'destroyed palace'. Toxic drugs do not bring a cure; short needles cannot seize [the disease]. Wang Bing's commentary explains that \"fu\" 府 \"palace\" stands for \"xiong\" 胸 \"chest\", and \"huai\" \"destroy\" implies \"injure the palace and seize the disease\". The \"Huangdi Neijing\" compiler Yang Shangshan notes, \"The [disease] proposed here very much resembles tuberculosis ... Hence [the text] states: poisonous drugs bring no cure; it cannot be seized with short needles.\"\n\nThe (c. 200–250 CE) \"Shennong Bencaojing\" pharmacopeia, attributed to the legendary inventor of agriculture Shennong \"Divine Farmer\", also refers to tuberculosis\n\nThe \"Zhouhou beiji fang\" 肘后备急方 \"Handbook of Prescriptions for Emergencies\", attributed to the Daoist scholar Ge Hong (263–420), uses the name of \"shizhu\" 尸疰 \"corpse disease; tuberculosis\" and describes the symptoms and contagion: \"This disease has many changing symptoms varying from thirty-six to ninety-nine different kinds. Generally it gives rise to a high fever, sweating, asthenia, unlocalised pains, making all positions difficult. Gradually, after months and years of suffering, this lingering disease brings about death to the sufferer. Afterwards it is transferred to others until the whole family is wiped out.\"\n\nSong dynasty (920–1279) Daoist priest-doctors first recorded that tuberculosis, called \"shīzhài\" 尸瘵 (lit. \"corpse disease\") \"disease which changes a living being into a corpse\", was caused by a specific parasite or pathogen, centuries earlier than their contemporaries in other countries. The \"Duanchu shizhai pin\" 斷除尸瘵品 \"On the Extermination of the Corpse Disease\" is the 23rd chapter in Daoist collection \"Wushang xuanyuan santian Yutang dafa\" 無上玄元三天玉堂大法 \"Great Rites of the Jade Hall of the Three Heavens of the Supreme Mysterious Origins\" (\"Daozang\" number 103). The text has a preface dated 1126, written by the Song dynasty Zhengyi Dao master Lu Shizhong 路時中, who founded the Yutang dafa 玉堂大法 tradition, but internal evidence reveals that the text could not have been written before 1158.\nThe disaster of the contagious disease, which changes a living being into a corpse, is caused by the infectious [nature] of the nine [kinds of] parasites (\"ch'ung\" 蟲). It is also caused by overworking one's mind and exhausting one's energy, injuring one's \"ch'i\" and loosening one's sperm—all of which happen to common folk. When the original vitality is being [gradually] exhausted, the evil aura begins to be transmitted through the affected vital \"ch'i\" [of the sick body]. ... The aspects of the illness vary, and the causes of contamination are different. Rooms and food are capable of gradual contamination, and the clothes worn by the indisposed are twined easily with the infectious \"ch'i\" and these two become inseparable. ... The symptoms of the disease: When it begins, the sufferer coughs and pants; he spits blood [pulmonary hemorrhage]; he is emaciated and skinny; cold and fever affect him intermittently, and his dreams are morbid. This is the evidence that this person is suffering from the disease which is also known as \"wu-ch'uan\" 屋傳 [contagious disease contracted from a sick-room]. ... The disease may be contracted by a healthy person who happens to have slept in the same bed with the patient, or worn his clothes. After the death of the sufferer, the clothes, curtains, bed or couch, vessels and utensils used by him are known to have been contaminated by and saturated with the polluted \"ch'i\" in which the noxious \"ku\" 蠱 [parasites or germs] take their abode. Stingy people wish to keep them for further use, and the poorer families cannot afford to get rid of them and buy everything anew. Isn't this lamentable, since it creates the cause of the great misfortune yet to come!\nThis passage refers to the cause of TB in ancient medical terminology of \"jiuchong\" 九蟲 \"Nine Worms\" and \"gu\" 蠱 \"supernatural agents causing disease\", and \"qi\". The Nine Worms generically meant \"bodily parasites; intestinal worms\" and were associated with the \"sanshi\" 三尸 \"Three Corpses\" or \"sanchong\" 三蟲 \"Three Worms\", which were believed to be biospiritual parasites that live in the human body and seek to hasten their host's death. \nDaoist medical texts give different lists and descriptions of the Nine Worms. The \"Boji fang\" 博濟方 \"Prescriptions for Universal Dispensation\", collected by Wang Gun王袞 (fl. 1041), calls the supposed TB pathogen \"laochong\" 癆蟲 \"tuberculosis worms\".\n\nThis \"Duanchu shizhai pin\" chapter (23/7b-8b) explains that the present Nine Worms does not refer to the intestinal \"weichong\" 胃蟲 \"stomach worms\", \"huichong\" 蛔蟲 \"coiling worm; roundworm\", or \"cun baichong\" 寸白蟲 \"inch-long white worm; nematode\", and says the supposed six TB worms are \"six kinds\" of parasites, but the next chapter (24/20a-21b) says they are \"six stages/generations\" of reproduction. Daoist priests allegedly cured tuberculosis through drugs, acupuncture, and burning \"fulu\" \"supernatural talismans/charms\". Burning magic talismans would cause the TB patient to cough, which was considered an effective treatment. \nTo cure the disease, it is necessary to produce a spout of smoke by burning off thirty-six charms, and instruct the patient to inhale and to swallow up its fumes, whether he likes it or not. By the time all charms are used up, the smoke should also be dispersed. It may be difficult for the patient to bear the odour of the smoke at first, but once he gets used to such a smell, it does not really matter. Whenever the patient feels that there is phlegm in his throat, he is advised to cough and spit it out. If the patient is greatly affected by the symptoms, it will be good if his spittle is thick and if he can spit it out. When the patient is less affected by the wicked \"ch'i\", he does not have much phlegm to eject, but if he is deeply affected, he tends to vomit and to expectorate heavily until everything is cleared up, and then his illness is cured. When the wicked element is rooted out, it does not need to be fumigated any more [with charms].\nIn addition, Daoist healers would burn talismans in order to fumigate the clothes and belongings of the deceased, and would warn the family of the tuberculosis victim's family to throw away everything into a \"changliu shui\" 長流水 \"everflowing stream\". According to Liu Ts'un-yan, \"This proves that the priests of the time actually wanted to destroy all the belongings of the deceased, using charms as a camouflage.\"\n\nThe first classical text to mention the disease is Herodotus' Histories in which he relates how a Persian general, Pharnouches, abandoned Xerxes' campaign against the Spartans due to consumption.\n\nHippocrates, in Book 1 of his \"Of the Epidemics,\" describes the characteristics of the disease: fever, colorless urine, cough resulting in a thick sputa, and loss of thirst and appetite. He notes that most of the sufferers became delirious before they succumbed to the disease. Hippocrates and many other at the time believed phthisis to be hereditary in nature. Aristotle disagreed, believing the disease was contagious.\n\nPliny the Younger wrote a letter to Priscus in which he details the symptoms of phthisis as he saw them in Fannia:\n\nGalen proposed a series of therapeutic treatments for the disease, including: opium as a sleeping agent and painkiller; blood letting; a diet of barley water, fish, and fruit. He also described the phyma (tumor) of the lungs, which is thought to correspond to the tubercles that form on the lung as a result of the disease.\n\nVitruvius noted that \"cold in the windpipe, cough, plurisy, phthisis, [and] spitting blood\", were common diseases in regions where the wind blew from north to northwest, and advised that walls be so built as to shelter individuals from the winds.\n\nAretaeus was the first person to rigorously describe the symptoms of the disease in his text \"De causis et signis diuturnorum morborum\":\n\nIn his other book \"De curatione diuturnorum morborum\", he recommends that sufferers travel to high altitudes, travel by sea, eat a good diet and drink plenty of milk.\n\nIn South America, reports of a study in August 2014 revealed that TB had likely been spread via seals that contracted it on beaches of Africa, from humans via domesticated animals, and carried it across the Atlantic. A team at the University of Tubingen analyzed tuberculosis DNA in 1,000-year-old skeletons of the Chiribaya culture in southern Peru; so much genetic material was recovered that they could reconstruct the genome. They learned that this TB strain was related most closely to a form found only in seals. In South America, it was likely contracted first by hunters who handled contaminated meat. This TB is a different strain from that prevalent today in the Americas, which is more closely related to a later Eurasian strain.\n\nPrior to this study, the first evidence of the disease in South America was found in remains of the Arawak culture around 1050 BC. The most significant finding belongs to the mummy of an 8 to 10-year-old Nascan child from Hacienda Agua Sala, dated to 700 AD. Scientists were able to isolate evidence of the bacillus.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, no significant advances were made regarding tuberculosis. Avicenna and Rhazes continued to consider to believe the disease was both contagious and difficult to treat. Arnaldus de Villa Nova described etiopathogenic theory directly related to that of Hippocrates, in which a cold humor dripped from the head into the lungs.\n\nIn Medieval Hungary, the Inquisition recorded the trials of pagans. A document from the 12th century recorded an explanation of the cause of illness. The pagans said that tuberculosis was produced when a dog-shaped demon occupied the person's body and started to eat his lungs. When the possessed person coughed, then the demon was barking, and getting close to his objective, which was to kill the victim.\n\nWith the spread of Christianity, monarchs were seen as religious figures with magical or curative powers. It was believed that royal touch, the touch of the sovereign of England or France, could cure diseases due to the divine right of sovereigns. King Henry IV of France usually performed the rite once a week, after taking communion. So common was this practice of royal healing in France, that scrofula became known as the \"mal du roi\" or the \"King's Evil\".\n\nInitially, the touching ceremony was an informal process. Sickly individuals could petition the court for a royal touch and the touch would be performed at the King's earliest convenience. At times, the King of France would touch afflicted subjects during his royal walkabout. The rapid spread of tuberculosis across France and England, however, necessitated a more formal and efficient touching process. By the time of Louis XIV of France, placards indicating the days and times the King would be available for royal touches were posted regularly; sums of money were doled out as charitable support. In England, the process was extremely formal and efficient. As late as 1633, the Book of Common Prayer of the Anglican Church contained a Royal Touch ceremony. The monarch (king or queen), sitting upon a canopied throne, touched the afflicted individual, and presented that individual with a coin – usually an Angel, a gold coin the value of which varied from about 6 shillings to about 10 shillings – by pressing it against the afflicted's neck.\n\nAlthough the ceremony was of no medical value, members of the royal courts often propagandized that those receiving the royal touch were miraculously healed. André du Laurens, the senior physician of Henry IV, publicized findings that at least half of those that received the royal touch were cured within a few days. The royal touch remained popular into the 18th century. Parish registers from Oxfordshire, England include not only records of baptisms, marriages, and deaths, but also records of those eligible for the royal touch.\n\nGirolamo Fracastoro became the first person to propose, in his work \"De contagione\", that phthisis was transmitted by an invisible \"virus\". Among his assertions were that the \"virus\" could survive between \"two or three years\" on the clothes of those suffering from the disease and that it was usually transmitted through direct contact or the discharged fluids of the infected, what he called \"fomes\". He noted that phthisis could be contracted without either direct contact or fomes, but was unsure of the process by which the disease propagated across distances.\n\nParacelsus advanced the belief that tuberculosis was caused by a failure of an internal organ to accomplish its alchemical duties. When this occurred in the lungs, stony precipitates would develop causing tuberculosis in what he called the \"tartaric\" process.\n\nFranciscus Sylvius began differentiating between the various forms of tuberculosis (pulmonary, ganglion). He was the first person to recognize that the skin ulcers caused by scrofula resembled tubercles seen in phthisis, noting that \"phthisis is the scrofula of the lung\" in his book \"Opera Medica\", published posthumously in 1679. Around the same time, Thomas Willis concluded that all diseases of the chest must ultimately lead to consumption. Willis did not know the exact cause of the disease but he blamed it on sugar or an acidity of the blood. Richard Morton published \"Phthisiologia, seu exercitationes de Phthisi tribus libris comprehensae\" in 1689, in which he emphasized the tubercle as the true cause of the disease. So common was the disease at the time that Morton is quoted as saying \"I cannot sufficiently admire that anyone, at least after he comes to the flower of his youth, can [sic] dye without a touch of consumption.\"\n\nIn 1720, Benjamin Marten proposed in \"A New Theory of Consumptions more Especially of Phthisis or Consumption of the Lungs\" that the cause of tuberculosis was some type of \"animalcula\"—microscopic living beings that are able to survive in a new body (similar to the ones described by Anton van Leeuwenhoek in 1695). The theory was roundly rejected and it took another 162 years before Robert Koch demonstrated it to be true.\n\nIn 1768, Robert Whytt gave the first clinical description of tuberculosis meningitis and in 1779, Percivall Pott, an English surgeon, described the vertebral lesions that carry his name. In 1761, Leopold Auenbrugger, an Austrian physician, developed the percussion method of diagnosing tuberculosis, a method rediscovered some years later in 1797 by Jean-Nicolas Corvisart of France. After finding it useful, Corvisart made it readily available to the academic community by translating it into French.\n\nWilliam Stark proposed that ordinary lung tubercles could eventually evolve into ulcers and cavities, believing that the different forms of tuberculosis were simply different manifestations of the same disease. Unfortunately, Stark died at the age of thirty (while studying scurvy) and his observations were discounted. In his \"Systematik de speziellen Pathologie und Therapie\", J. L. Schönlein, Professor of Medicine in Zurich, proposed that the word \"tuberculosis\" be used to describe the affliction of tubercles.\n\nThe incidence of tuberculosis grew progressively during the Middle Ages and Renaissance, displacing leprosy, peaking between the 18th and 19th century as field workers moved to the cities looking for work. When he released his study in 1808, William Woolcombe was astonished at the prevalence of tuberculosis in 18th-century England. Of the 1,571 deaths in the English city of Bristol between 1790 and 1796, 683 were due to tuberculosis. Remote towns, initially isolated from the disease, slowly succumbed. The consumption deaths in the village of Holycross in Shropshire between 1750 and 1759 were one in six (1:6); ten years later, 1:3. In the metropolis of London, 1:7 died from consumption at the dawn of the 18th century, by 1750 that proportion grew to 1:5.25 and surged to 1:4.2 by around the start of the 19th century. The Industrial Revolution coupled with poverty and squalor created the optimal environment for the propagation of the disease.\n\nIt was during this century that tuberculosis was dubbed the White Plague, \"mal de vivre\", and \"mal du siècle\". It was seen as a \"romantic disease\". Suffering from tuberculosis was thought to bestow upon the sufferer heightened sensitivity. The slow progress of the disease allowed for a \"good death\" as sufferers could arrange their affairs. The disease began to represent spiritual purity and temporal wealth, leading many young, upper-class women to purposefully pale their skin to achieve the consumptive appearance. British poet Lord Byron wrote, \"I should like to die from consumption\", helping to popularize the disease as the disease of artists. George Sand doted on her phthisic lover, Frédéric Chopin, calling him her \"poor melancholy angel\".\n\nIn France, at least five novels were published expressing the ideals of tuberculosis: Dumas's \"La Dame aux camélias\", Murger's \"Scènes de la vie de Bohème\", Hugo's \"Les Misérables\", the Goncourt brothers' \"Madame Gervaisais\" and \"Germinie Lacerteux\", and Rostand's \"L'Aiglon\". The portrayals by Dumas and Murger in turn inspired operatic depictions of consumption in Verdi's \"La traviata\" and Puccini's \"La bohème\". Even after medical knowledge of the disease had accumulated, the redemptive-spiritual perspective of the disease has remained popular (as seen in the 2001 film \"Moulin Rouge\" based in part on \"La traviata\" and the musical adaptations of \"Les Misérables\").\n\nIn large cities the poor had high rates of tuberculosis. Public-health physicians and politicians typically blamed both the poor themselves and their ramshackle tenement houses (conventillos) for the spread of the dreaded disease. People ignored public-health campaigns to limit the spread of contagious diseases, such as the prohibition of spitting on the streets, the strict guidelines to care for infants and young children, and quarantines that separated families from ill loved ones.\n\nThough removed from the cultural movement, the scientific understanding advanced considerably. By the end of the 19th century, several major breakthroughs gave hope that a cause and cure might be found.\n\nOne of the most important physicians dedicated to the study of phthisiology was René Laennec, who died from the disease at the age of 45, after contracting tuberculosis while studying contagious patients and infected bodies. Laennec invented the stethoscope which he used to corroborate his auscultatory findings and prove the correspondence between the pulmonary lesions found on the lungs of autopsied tuberculosis patients and the respiratory symptoms seen in living patients. His most important work was \"Traité de l’Auscultación Mediate\" which detailed his discoveries on the utility of pulmonary auscultation in diagnosing tuberculosis. This book was promptly translated into English by John Forbes in 1821; it represents the beginning of the modern scientific understanding of tuberculosis. Laennec was named professional chair of Hôpital Necker in September 1816 and today he is considered the greatest French clinician.\n\nLaennec's work put him in contact with the vanguard of the French medical establishment, including Pierre Charles Alexandre Louis. Louis would go on to use statistical methods to evaluate the different aspects of the disease's progression, the efficacy of various therapies and individuals' susceptibility, publishing an article in the \"Annales d'hygiène publique\" entitled \"Note on the Relative Frequency of Phthisis in the Two Sexes\". Another good friend and co-worker of Laennec, Gaspard Laurent Bayle, published an article in 1810 entitled \"Recherches sur la Pthisie Pulmonaire\", in which he divided pthisis into six types: tubercular phthisis, glandular phthisis, ulcerous phthisis, phthisis with melanosis, calculous phthisis, and cancerous phthisis. He based his findings on more than 900 autopsies.\n\nIn 1869, Jean Antoine Villemin demonstrated that the disease was indeed contagious, conducting an experiment in which tuberculous matter from human cadavers was injected into laboratory rabbits, which then became infected.\n\nOn 24 March 1882, Robert Koch revealed the disease was caused by an infectious agent. In 1895, Wilhelm Roentgen discovered the X-ray, which allowed physicians to diagnose and track the progression of the disease, and although an effective medical treatment would not come for another fifty years, the incidence and mortality of tuberculosis began to decline.\n\nVillemin's experiments had confirmed the contagious nature of the disease and had forced the medical community to accept that tuberculosis was indeed an infectious disease, transmitted by some etiological agent of unknown origin. In 1882, Prussian physician Robert Koch utilized a new staining method and applied it to the sputum of tuberculosis patients, revealing for the first time the causal agent of the disease: \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\", or Koch's bacillus.\n\nWhen he began his investigation, Koch knew of the work of Villemin and others who had continued his experiments like Julius Conheim and Carl Salmosen. He also had access to the \"pthisis ward\" at the Berlin Charité Hospital. Before he confronted the problem of tuberculosis, he worked with the disease caused by anthrax and had discovered the causal agent to be \"Bacillus anthracis\". During this investigation he became friends with Ferdinand Cohn, the director of the Institute of Vegetable Physiology. Together they worked to develop methods of culturing tissue samples. 18 August 1881, while staining tuberculous material with methylene blue, he noticed oblong structures, though he was not able to ascertain whether it was just a result of the coloring. To improve the contrast, he decide to add Bismarck Brown, after which the oblong structures were rendered bright and transparent. He improved the technique by varying the concentration of alkali in the staining solution until the ideal viewing conditions for the bacilli was achieved.\n\nAfter numerous attempts he was able to incubate the bacteria in coagulated blood serum at 37 degrees Celsius. He then inoculated laboratory rabbits with the bacteria and observed that they died while exhibiting symptoms of tuberculosis, proving that the bacillus, which he named \"tuberculosis bacillus\", was in fact the cause of tuberculosis.\n\nHe made his result public at the Physiological Society of Berlin on 24 March 1882, in a famous lecture entitled \"Über Tuberculose\", which was published three weeks later. Since 1882, 24 March has been known as World Tuberculosis Day.\n\nOn 20 April 1882, Koch presented an article entitled \"Die Ätiologie der Tuberculose\" in which he demonstrated that \"Mycobacterium\" was the single cause of tuberculosis in all of its forms.\n\nIn 1890 Koch developed tuberculin, a purified protein derivative of the bacteria. It proved to be an ineffective means of immunization but in 1908, Charles Mantoux found it was an effective intradermic test for diagnosing tuberculosis.\n\nThe advancement of scientific understanding of tuberculosis, and its contagious nature created the need for institutions to house sufferers.\n\nThe first proposal for a tuberculosis facility was made in paper by George Bodington entitled \"An essay on the treatment and cure of pulmonary consumption, on principles natural, rational and successful\" in 1840. In this paper, he proposed a dietary, rest, and medical care program for a hospital he planned to found in Maney. Attacks from numerous medical experts, especially articles in \"The Lancet\", disheartened Bodington and he turned to plans for housing the insane.\n\nAround the same time in the United States, in late October and early November 1842, Dr. John Croghan, the owner of Mammoth Cave, brought 15 tuberculosis sufferers into the cave in the hope of curing the disease with the constant temperature and purity of the cave air. Patients were lodged in stone huts, and each was supplied with a slave to bring meals. One patient, A. H. P. Anderson, wrote glowing reviews of the cave experience:\n\nBy late January, early February 1843, two patients were dead and the rest had left. Departing patients died anywhere from three days to three weeks after resurfacing; John Croghan died of tuberculosis at his Louisville residence in 1849.\n\nHermann Brehmer, a German physician, was convinced that tuberculosis arose from the difficulty of the heart to correctly irrigate the lungs. He therefore proposed that regions well above sea level, where the atmospheric pressure was less, would help the heart function more effectively. With the encouragement of explorer Alexander von Humboldt and his teacher J. L. Schönlein, the first anti-tuberculosis sanatorium was established in 1854, 650 meters above sea level, at Görbersdorf. Three years later he published his findings in a paper \"Die chronische Lungenschwindsucht und Tuberkulose der Lunge: Ihre Ursache und ihre Heilung\".\n\nBrehmer and one of his patients, Peter Dettweiler, became proponents for the sanatorium movement, and by 1877, sanatoriums began to spread beyond Germany and throughout Europe. Dr. Edward Livingston Trudeau subsequently founded the Adirondack Cottage Sanitorium in Saranac Lake, New York in 1884. One of Trudeau's early patients was author Robert Louis Stevenson; his fame helped establish Saranac Lake as a center for the treatment of tuberculosis. In 1894, after a fire destroyed Trudeau's small home laboratory, he organized the Saranac Laboratory for the Study of Tuberculosis; renamed the Trudeau Institute, the laboratory continues to study infectious diseases.\n\nPeter Dettweiler went on to found his own sanatorium at Falkenstein in 1877 and in 1886 published findings claiming that 132 of his 1022 patients had been completely cured after staying at his institution. Eventually, sanatoriums began to appear near large cities and at low altitudes, like the Sharon Sanatorium in 1890 near Boston.\n\nSanatoriums were not the only treatment facilities. Specialized tuberculosis clinics began to develop in major metropolitan areas. Sir Robert Philip established the Royal Victoria Dispensary for Consumption in Edinburgh in 1887. Dispensaries acted as special sanatoriums for early tuberculosis cases and were opened to lower income individuals. The use of dispensaries to treat middle and lower-class individuals in major metropolitan areas and the coordination between various levels of health services programs like hospitals, sanatoriums, and tuberculosis colonies became known as the \"Edinburgh Anti-tuberculosis Scheme\".\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, tuberculosis was one of the UK's most urgent health problems. A royal commission was set up in 1901, The Royal Commission Appointed to Inquire into the Relations of Human and Animal Tuberculosis. Its remit was to find out whether tuberculosis in animals and humans was the same disease, and whether animals and humans could infect each other. By 1919, the Commission had evolved into the UK's Medical Research Council.\n\nIn 1902, the International Conference on Tuberculosis convened in Berlin. Among various other acts, the conference proposed the Cross of Lorraine be the international symbol of the fight against tuberculosis. National campaigns spread across Europe and the United States to tamp down on the continued prevalence of tuberculosis.\n\nAfter the establishment in the 1880s that the disease was contagious, TB was made a notifiable disease in Britain; there were campaigns to stop spitting in public places, and the infected poor were pressured to enter sanatoria that resembled prisons; the sanatoria for the middle and upper classes offered excellent care and constant medical attention. Whatever the purported benefits of the fresh air and labor in the sanatoria, even under the best conditions, 50% of those who entered were dead within five years (1916).\n\nThe promotion of Christmas Seals began in Denmark during 1904 as a way to raise money for tuberculosis programs. It expanded to the United States and Canada in 1907–1908 to help the National Tuberculosis Association (later called the American Lung Association).\n\nIn the United States, concern about the spread of tuberculosis played a role in the movement to prohibit public spitting except into spittoons.\n\nThe first genuine success in immunizing against tuberculosis was developed from attenuated bovine-strain tuberculosis by Albert Calmette and Camille Guérin in 1906. It was called \"BCG\" (\"Bacille Calmette-Guérin\"). The BCG vaccine was first used on humans in 1921 in France, but it was not until after World War II that BCG received widespread acceptance in Great Britain, and Germany. In the early days of the British National Health Service X-ray examination for TB increased dramatically but rates of vaccination were initially very low. In 1953 it was agreed that secondary school pupils should be vaccinated, but by the end of 1954 only 250,000 people had been vaccinated. By 1956 this had risen to 600,000, about half being school children.\n\nAs the century progressed, some surgical interventions, including the pneumothorax or plombage technique—collapsing an infected lung to \"rest\" it and allow the lesions to heal—were used to treat tuberculosis. Pneumothorax was not a new technique by any means. In 1696, Giorgio Baglivi reported a general improvement in tuberculosis sufferers after they received sword wounds to the chest. F.H. Ramadge induced the first successful therapeutic pneumothorax in 1834, and reported subsequently the patient was cured. It was in the 20th century, however, that scientists sought to rigorously investigate the effectiveness of such procedures. In 1939, the \"British Journal of Tuberculosis\" published a study by Oli Hjaltested and Kjeld Törning on 191 patients undergoing the procedure between 1925 and 1931; in 1951, Roger Mitchell published several articles on the therapeutic outcomes of 557 patients treated between 1930 and 1939 at Trudeau Sanatorium in Saranac Lake. The search for a medicinal cure, however, continued in earnest.\n\nDuring the Nazi occupation of Poland, SS-Obergruppenführer Wilhelm Koppe organized the execution of more than 30,000 Polish patients suffering from tuberculosis – little knowing or caring that a cure was nearly at hand.\n\nIn 1944 Albert Schatz, Elizabeth Bugie, and Selman Waksman isolated streptomycin produced by a bacterial strain \"Streptomyces griseus.\" Streptomycin was the first effective antibiotic against \"M. tuberculosis\". This discovery is generally considered the beginning of the modern era of tuberculosis, although the true revolution began some years later, in 1952, with the development of isoniazid, the first oral mycobactericidal drug. The advent of rifampin in the 1970s hastened recovery times, and significantly reduced the number of tuberculosis cases until the 1980s.\n\nThe British epidemiologist Thomas McKeown had shown that \"'treatment by streptomycin reduced the number of deaths since it was introduced (1948–71) by 51 per cent...'\". However, he also showed that the mortality from TB in England and Wales had already declined by 90 to 95% before streptomycin and BCG-vaccination were widely available, and that the contribution of antibiotics to the decline of mortality from TB was actually very small: \"...for the total period since cause of death was first recorded (1848–71) the reduction was 3.2 per cent\". These figures have since been confirmed for all western countries (see for example the decline in TB mortality in the USA) and for all then known infectious diseases. McKeown explained the decline in mortality from infectious diseases by an improved standard of living, particularly by better nutrition, and by better hygiene, and less by medical intervention. McKeown, who is considered as the father of social medicine, has advocated for many years, that with drugs and vaccines we may win the battle but will lose the war against Diseases of Poverty. Thereto, efforts and resources should be primarily directed toward improving the standard of living of people in low resource countries, and toward improving their environment by providing clean water, sanitation, better housing, education, safety and justice, and access to medical care. Particularly the work of Nobel laureates Robert W. Fogel (1993) and Angus Deaton (2015) have greatly contributed to the recent reappreciation of the McKeown thesis. A negative confirmation of the McKeown thesis was that increased pressure on wages by IMF loans to post-communist Eastern European were strongly associated with a rise in TB incidence, prevalence and mortality.\n\nHopes that the disease could be completely eliminated were dashed in the 1980s with the rise of drug-resistant strains. Tuberculosis cases in Britain, numbering around 117,000 in 1913, had fallen to around 5,000 in 1987, but cases rose again, reaching 6,300 in 2000 and 7,600 cases in 2005. Due to the elimination of public health facilities in New York and the emergence of HIV, there was a resurgence of TB in the late 1980s. The number of patients failing to complete their course of drugs was high. New York had to cope with more than 20,000 TB patients with multidrug-resistant strains (resistant to, at least, both rifampin and isoniazid).\n\nIn response to the resurgence of tuberculosis, the World Health Organization issued a declaration of a global health emergency in 1993. Every year, nearly half a million new cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) are estimated to occur worldwide.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24949105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24949105", "title": "History of yellow fever", "text": "History of yellow fever\n\nThe evolutionary origins of yellow fever most likely lie in Africa.\nPhylogenetic analyses indicate that the virus originated from East or Central Africa, with transmission between primates and humans, and spread from there to West Africa. The virus as well as the vector \"Aedes aegypti\", a mosquito species, were probably brought to the western hemisphere and the Americas by slave trade ships from Africa after the first European exploration in 1492.\n\nThe first outbreaks of disease that were probably yellow fever occurred in the Windward Islands of the Caribbean on Barbados in 1647 and Guadalupe in 1648. Barbados had undergone an ecological transformation with the introduction of sugar cultivation by the Dutch. Plentiful forests present in the 1640s were completely gone by the 1660s. By the early 18th century, the same transformation related to sugar cultivation had occurred on the larger islands of Jamaica, Hispaniola and Cuba. Spanish colonists recorded an outbreak in 1648 on the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico that may have been yellow fever. The illness was called \"xekik\" (black vomit) by the Maya.\n\nAt least 25 major outbreaks followed in North America, such as in Philadelphia 1793, where several thousand people died, more than nine percent of the total population. The American government, including George Washington, had to flee the city, which was the capital of the United States at the time. In 1878, about 20,000 people died in an epidemic in towns of the Mississippi River Valley and its tributaries. The last major outbreak in the US occurred in 1905 in New Orleans. Major outbreaks also occurred in Europe in the nineteenth century in Atlantic ports following the arrival of sailing vessels from the Caribbean, most often from Havana. Outbreaks occurred in Barcelona in 1803, 1821, and 1870. In the last outbreak, 1,235 fatalities were recorded of an estimated 12,000 cases. Smaller outbreaks occurred in Saint-Nazaire in France, Swansea in Wales, and in other European port cities following the arrival of vessels carrying the mosquito vector.\n\nThe first mention of the disease by the name \"yellow fever\" occurred in 1744. Many famous people, mostly during the 18th through the 20th centuries, contracted and then recovered from, or died of, yellow fever.\n\nThe Yellow Fever Epidemic of 1793 struck during the summer in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where the highest fatalities in the United States were recorded. The disease probably was brought by refugees and mosquitoes on ships from Saint-Domingue. It rapidly spread in the port city, in the crowded blocks along the Delaware River. About 5000 people died, ten percent of the population of 50,000. The city was then the national capital, and the national government left the city, including President George Washington. Philadelphia, Baltimore and New York suffered repeated epidemics in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, as did other cities along the East and Gulf coasts.\n\nThe majority of the British soldiers sent to Haiti in the 1790s died of disease, chiefly yellow fever. There has been considerable debate over whether the number of deaths caused by disease was exaggerated.\n\nIn 1802–1803, an army of forty thousand sent by First Consul Napoleon Bonaparte of France to Saint Domingue to suppress the Haitian Revolution mounted by slaves, was decimated by an epidemic of yellow fever (among the casualties was the expedition's commander and Bonaparte's brother-in-law, Charles Leclerc). Some historians believe Napoleon intended to use the island as a staging point for an invasion of the United States through Louisiana (then newly regained by the French from the Spanish.). Others believe that he was most intent on regaining control of the lucrative sugar production and trade in Saint-Domingue. Only one-third of the French troops survived to return to France, and in 1804 the new republic of Haiti declared its independence.\n\nNearly 700 people in Savannah, Georgia died from yellow fever in 1820, including two local physicians who lost their lives caring for the stricken. Several other epidemics followed, including 1854 and 1876.\n\nThe 1853 outbreak claimed 7,849 residents of New Orleans. The press and the medical profession did not alert citizens of the outbreak until the middle of July, after more than one thousand people had already died. The New Orleans business community feared that word of an epidemic would cause a quarantine to be placed on the city, and their trade would suffer. In such epidemics, steamboats frequently carried passengers and the disease upriver from New Orleans to other cities along the Mississippi River.\n\nThe epidemic was dramatized and featured in the plot of the 1938 film \"Jezebel\", starring Bette Davis.\n\nYellow fever was a threat in New Orleans and south Louisiana virtually every year, during the warmest months. Among the more prominent victims were: Spanish colonial Governor Manuel Gayoso de Lemos (1799); the first and second wives (d. 1804, 1809) of territorial Governor William C. C. Claiborne and his young daughter (1804); one of New Orleans' most important early city planners Barthelemy Lafon (1820), architect Benjamin Henry Latrobe and one of his sons (1820, 1817, respectively), who were in New Orleans building the city's first waterworks; Jesse Burton Harrison (1841), a young lawyer and author; Confederate Brig. Gen. Young Marshall Moody (1866); architect James Gallier, Jr. (1868); and Confederate Lt. Gen. John Bell Hood and his wife and daughter (1879).\n\nA ship carrying persons infected with the virus arrived in Hampton Roads in southeastern Virginia in June 1855. The disease spread quickly through the community, eventually killing over 3,000 people, mostly residents of Norfolk and Portsmouth. The Howard Association, a benevolent organization, was formed to help coordinate assistance in the form of funds, supplies, and medical professionals and volunteers, who poured in from many other areas, particularly the Atlantic and Gulf Coast areas of the United States.\n\nThe 1867 yellow fever epidemic claimed many casualties in the southern counties of Texas, as well as in New Orleans. The deaths in Texas included Union Maj. Gen. Charles Griffin, Margaret Lea Houston (Mrs. Sam Houston), and at least two young physicians and their family members.\n\nThe entire Mississippi River Valley from St. Louis south was affected, and tens of thousands fled the stricken cities of New Orleans, Vicksburg, and Memphis. An estimated 120,000 cases of yellow fever resulted in some 20,000 deaths.\n\nMemphis suffered several epidemics during the 1870s, culminating in the 1878 epidemic (called the Saffron Scourge of 1878), with more than 5,000 fatalities in the city. Some contemporary accounts said that commercial interests had prevented the rapid reporting of the outbreak of the epidemic, increasing the total number of deaths. People still did not understand how the disease developed or was transmitted, and did not know how to prevent it.\n\nThe 1878 epidemic was the worst that occurred in the state of Mississippi. Sometimes known as 'Yellow Jack,' and 'Bronze John,' devastated Mississippi socially and economically. Entire families were killed, while others fled their homes for the presumed safety of other parts of the state. Quarantine regulations, passed to prevent the spread of the disease, brought trade to a stop. Some local economies never recovered. Beechland, near Vicksburg, became a ghost town because of the epidemic. By the end of the year, 3,227 people had died from the disease.\n\nThe French effort to build a Panama Canal was damaged by the prevalence of endemic tropical diseases in the Isthmus. Although malaria was also a serious problem for the French canal builders, the numerous yellow fever fatalities and the fear they engendered made it difficult for the French company to retain sufficient technical staff to sustain the effort. Since the mode of transmission of the disease was unknown, the French response to the disease was limited to care of the sick. The French hospitals contained many pools of stagnant water, such as basins underneath potted plants, in which mosquitoes could breed. The eventual failure, as a result of the numerous deaths, of the French company licensed to build the canal resulted in a massive financial crisis in France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25848809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25848809", "title": "Idaho Human Rights Day", "text": "Idaho Human Rights Day\n\nIdaho Human Rights Day is a state holiday recognized only in the U.S. state of Idaho. It was created on January 16, 2006 by then Governor and former United States Secretary of the Interior, Dirk Kempthorne. The holiday is celebrated simultaneously each year on the same day as Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. The full name of this holiday in the state of Idaho is Martin Luther King, Jr. - Idaho Human Rights Day.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "8612118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8612118", "title": "Ihsan H. Nadiem", "text": "Ihsan H. Nadiem\n\nIhsan H. Nadiem (born 1940) is a Pakistani archaeologist, museologist, author and poet.\n\nBorn in Montgomery, Nadiem studied at Government College, Lahore, and did his postgraduation in Geography from the University of the Punjab. He was then trained as archaeologist on a scholarship by Government of Pakistan. At a later stage, he specialised in Museology on a French Government Fellowship.\nHe joined the Department of Archaeology, Pakistan and excavated at Banbhore, Swat (Pant, Saidu-I and\nSaidu-II), Moenjodaro and Tulamba. As a curator he was in charge of museums at Harappa, Umerkot, Moenjodaro, Lahore Fort and Taxila. He managed the regional offices of the department at Peshawar and Quetta before being posted as officer ncharge of the Publications Branch, which he reactivated after it had remained dormant for 13 years. He launched the Pakistan Institute of Archaeological Training and Research (PIATR) at Lahore and co-ordinated it following its launch. He was the director of the Northern Circle of Archaeology with headquarters at Lahore, and then Southern Circle of Archaeology at Hyderabad (Sindh)/Karachi. These assignment entailed archaeological research and maintenance and administration of antiquities in the Pakistani provinces of Punjab and North West Frontier – in the former case – and Sindh and Balochistan in the latter case. He retired from active government service in 2000 and is now an author on the cultural heritage of Pakistan.\n\nHe has also served as Professor in the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore where he structured courses on \"Conservation of Architectural Heritage\" as a subject for Master's degree in Architecture. He has published about twenty five Research Papers in different journals of international repute; over 250 articles on cultural heritage of Pakistan appearing in various dailies and periodicals and an Excavation Report in two volumes, from Rome. In addition, he edited \"Pakistan Archaeology\" volume 10–22, and prepared and published professional and technical reports.\n\nHe also writes English poetry. His poems have appeared in different publications, and as collections entitled \"Illusory Trance\"(now out of print) and \"Golden Rays\". His book on \"Moenjodaro, Heritage of Mankind\" was first published in 1994, and the edition sold out within months. Its second edition, revised and enlarged, was published in 1995 and a third edition three years later. He has so far published 27 books from the House of Sang-e-Meel Publications and 3 books from Alfaisal Publishers, both at Lahore, on the cultural heritage of Pakistan. In addition his book - Subjects and Themes in the Holy Qur'an, in two volumes - has also been published by Alfaisal Publishers, Lahore.\nSince 2010 he is working as Director in Dyal Singh Research & Cultural Forum - an institute devoted to the study and research in the culture, language and history of Punjab (on both side of the divide between Pakistan and India)\n\n(This book has also been translated into i. Sinhala and published from Colombo, Sri Lanka; and ii. Nepalese and published from Kathmandu, Nepal. \n\n\nBOOKS PUBLISHED BY DYAL SINGH RESEARCH & CULTURAL FORUM, LAHORE - PAKISTAN (Edited)\n"}
{"id": "2475230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2475230", "title": "In Search of the Cradle of Civilization", "text": "In Search of the Cradle of Civilization\n\nIn Search of the Cradle of Civilization: New Light on Ancient India is a 1995 book by Georg Feuerstein, Subhash Kak, and David Frawley in which the authors argue against the theories that Indo-European peoples arrived in India in the middle of the second millennium BC (Indo-Aryan migration) and support the concept of \"Indigenous Aryans\" and the Out of India theory.\n\nThe book was published by Quest Books, a branch of the Theosophical Society in America.\n\nContradicting earlier views of colonial historians, the authors argue that Vedic civilization grew out of the \"Indus-Sarasvati civilization\", or \"Indus Valley civilization\". The authors enumerate fifteen arguments for their revisionist views. Several of these arguments emphasize linguistic, architectural, cultural, agricultural, and technological continuity between Harappan culture, the Vedas, and post-Vedic Hinduism. They also argue that it is improbable that the Vedas were the product of a nomadic or semi-nomadic group. Early opinion considered the Rigveda as containing memories of an earlier nomadic period, whilst the later Vedas were the product of a society native to India. The authors argue that this early viewpoint of the Rigveda is based on mistaken and speculative interpretations, and that in actuality the Rigveda also describes society native to India.\n\nThe authors leave open the view that India is the \"Urheimat\" (original homeland) of the Indo-Europeans (the \"out of India model\"), saying that \"the Aryans could just as well have been native to India for several millennia, deriving their Sanskritic language from earlier Indo-European dialects.\"\n\nThe authors find continuity in Indian spiritual and religious artifacts from Mehrgarh, one of the first cities in the world, to the present. Historical linguistics does not rule out elements of cultural continuity in spite of language change, so that such claims, likewise, are not in conflict with mainstream opinion. In the view of the authors, however, this alleged continuity rules out the later influx of another ethnic group.\n\nA review by M. K. Dhavalikar called it a \"beautifully printed\" contribution to the literature equating Vedic Aryans with the Harappans. Dhavalikar wrote that the authors state that there is no archaeological evidence of a massive invasion or migration, and stated that they make a strong case but that the book fails on crucial points, such as not explaining why chariots are absent from Harappan culture while prominent in the Vedas. Ultimately, the attempt to rewrite history is not convincing.\nThe book was reviewed in \"Yoga Journal\", \nin \"Varnam\", \nand on \"INDOlink\".\n\nNew age writer Deepak Chopra hailed the book as \"ground-breaking\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48470636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48470636", "title": "International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation", "text": "International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation\n\nThe International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation (IHEYO) is the youth wing of the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU), founded in 2002. It aims to network young humanists around the world together, support training and promote humanist values for the age category of 18–35. It is an umbrella organisation representing around 40,000 young people across the world.\n\nThe International Humanist and Ethical Youth Organisation (IHEYO) is the international umbrella organisation for Humanist youth organisations. IHEYO's main identity is to bring into active association youth groups and young humanist individuals throughout the world interested in promoting humanism, as is described in the IHEU Amsterdam Declaration 2002. IHEYO brings together people who describe themselves as humanists, atheists, agnostics, freethinkers, skeptics and similar views.\n\nThe vision of IHEYO is to give a voice to young humanists within the mission of IHEU. The mission of IHEU is to build and represent the global humanist movement that defends human rights and promotes humanist values worldwide. IHEYO does this by organising international networking events, offering training, connecting youth through social media and by its work in regional working groups. These activities empower IHEYO’s members to achieve their individual, local and regional goals.\n\nIHEYO members form the young humanist communities and campaign for political and cultural change in a diverse range of areas such as religious freedom, women's rights, education rights, abortion rights, LGBTIQ rights, equality, human rights, freedom of speech/thought/belief, public communication of science.\n\nIHEYO was formally established in 2003, but it was not completely a 21st-century construct. The first version of IHEYO was launched in 1966, and lasted around ten years. In the ‘80s, it was again revived for a similar period of time. But it was not until 2001, when the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) started an internship programme, that the idea of re-establishing IHEYO as an international humanist youth network was revived in a lasting way.\n\nFull members:\nIHEYO's Working Groups are the forum through which Humanist organisations can get in touch and work together with others in the same region. There are four Working Groups: the Asian Humanist Alliance, African Working Group, European Working Group and Americans Working Group.\n\nThe African Working Group (in short: AfWG) of IHEYO was established around 2005. It organises regional meetings in East and West Africa. The African Working Group is mainly organised in East Africa (Uganda, Tanzania, Kenya, Rwanda, etc.) and West Africa (Nigeria, Ghana, Liberia, Cameroon, etc.). The Fourth Annual IHEYO East African Regional Working Group Meeting was held in Kigali on 26–28 August 2015.\n\nThe American Working group is the newest and launched in Washington DC in May 2015 at the Future of Ethical Societies Annual conference.\nThis working group covered Canada, the United States of America, Central America and South America.\n\nThe Asian Working Group is a joint humanist effort in this continent to foster humanist values and ideas. Since its inception in 2007, it has published information −bulletins, has had regular meetings and organised events. The Working Group has members in Pakistan, India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore and the Philippines.\n\nThe European Working group (EWG) combines all IHEYO member organisations in Europe. The EWG has annual face-to-face meetings to coordinate the international exchanges taking place at events organised in Europe, including the European Humanist Youth Days (EHYD).\n\nEvents\n\nBetter Tomorrow is IHEYO's annual charity event. Its concept was based on the British student federation AHS's Non-Prophet Week.\n\n"}
{"id": "21973810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21973810", "title": "James E. Faulconer", "text": "James E. Faulconer\n\nJames E. Faulconer is an American philosopher, a former Richard L. Evans Professor of Philosophy at Brigham Young University, the former director of BYU's London Centre, and presently a Resident Senior Research Fellow and the Associate Director of the Wheatley Institution. He previously served as the dean of Undergraduate Education and the chair of the Philosophy Department at BYU.\n\nFaulconer received his B.A. in English from BYU. He then received master's and Ph.D. degrees in philosophy from Pennsylvania State University. His area of interest in philosophy is contemporary European philosophy, particularly the work of Martin Heidegger and late 20th- and early 21st-century French thinkers, particularly as that work bears on religious experience. Faulconer was the founding editor of \".\" He was a visiting professor at the Higher Institute for Philosophy, Catholic University of Leuven (1995-96) and a visiting researcher in the library of the École Normale Supérieur (2000-2001). \n\nFaulconer is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He is also a member of the United States Democratic Party, where he has served as a district chairperson.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1323446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1323446", "title": "Jeremiad", "text": "Jeremiad\n\nA jeremiad is a long literary work, usually in prose, but sometimes in verse, in which the author bitterly laments the state of society and its morals in a serious tone of sustained invective, and always contains a prophecy of society's imminent downfall.\n\nThe word is an eponym, named after the Biblical prophet Jeremiah, and comes from Biblical works attributed to him, the \"Book of Jeremiah\" and the \"Book of Lamentations\". The Book of Jeremiah prophesies the coming downfall of the Kingdom of Judah, and asserts that this is because its rulers have broken the covenant with the Lord.\n\nThe \"Lamentations\", similarly, lament the fall of the kingdom of Judah after the conquest prophesied by Jeremiah has occurred:\n\nHow doth the city sit solitary, that was full of people! how is she become as a widow! she that was great among the nations, and princess among the provinces, how is she become tributary!<br>She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks: among all her lovers she hath none to comfort her: all her friends have dealt treacherously with her, they are become her enemies.<br> Judah is gone into captivity because of affliction, and because of great servitude: she dwelleth among the heathen, she findeth no rest: all her persecutors overtook her between the straits.<br>The ways of Zion do mourn, because none come to the solemn feasts: all her gates are desolate: her priests sigh, her virgins are afflicted, and she is in bitterness.\n\nGenerally, the term \"jeremiad\" is applied to moralistic texts that denounce a society for its wickedness, and prophesy its downfall. The jeremiad was a favorite literary device of the Puritans especially in sermons like \"Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God\" by Jonathan Edwards. Authors from Gildas to Robert Bork have had this label hung on their works. Extending that tradition in a reflective vein is the autobiographical work of freed American slave Frederick Douglass, who lamented the moral corruption that slavery wrought on America – from both a Jeffersonian and Christian tradition. In contemporary usage, it is frequently pejorative, meant to suggest that the tone of the text is excessively pessimistic and overwrought.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8469637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8469637", "title": "Jesus Christ: The Musical", "text": "Jesus Christ: The Musical\n\nJesus Christ - The Musical is a 2005 parody music video in which Jesus sings the Gloria Gaynor hit \"I Will Survive\". The director is Javier Prato. Actor Miguel Mas plays the role of Jesus.\n\nThe film goes through various places such as a shop, with Jesus walking around singing \"I Will Survive\". He sings until he says \"I will survive\" once. He then gets hit by a bus.\n\nA sequel entitled \"Jesus Returns\" is currently in production, a trailer of the sequel was also uploaded in YouTube.\n\n"}
{"id": "10999194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10999194", "title": "John Womack", "text": "John Womack\n\nJohn Womack Jr. (born 1937) is an historian of Latin America, particularly of Mexico, the Mexican Revolution (1910–1921) and Emiliano Zapata. In June 2009 he retired from his post as the Robert Woods Bliss Professor of Latin American History and Economics at Harvard University.\n\nWomack was born in Norman, Oklahoma, in 1937 to John Womack Sr., also a historian. He graduated \"summa cum laude\" at Harvard University in 1959 (see Publications) and became a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University. In the 1960s he returned to his \"alma mater\" to earn a Ph.D. in History with exceptional research that gave him international prestige and his most famous book: \"Zapata and the Mexican Revolution\" (1969). His dissertation earned him a place at Harvard as an assistant professor of Latin American History. The published monograph was nominated for a National Book Award in 1970 and he was named to the Robert Woods Bliss Chair in Latin American History, first held by Clarence Haring. He has focused on modern Mexican history, with interests in Cuban and Colombian history, leading research in agrarian, industrial, and labor history. After his monograph on Zapata, which inspired many other scholars to pursue projects on grassroots rural history, Womack shifted his interest to urban working class history. In 1978, he published an article in \"Marxist Perspectives\" on the Mexican economy during the Revolution. His article in the \"Cambridge History of Latin America\" was anthologized in \"Mexico Since Independence\". In 1999, he published an article on the Moctezuma beer brewery. In 2005, he published a lengthy article assessing the state of labor history. His 1999 anthology of documents, \"Rebellion in Chiapas: An Historical Reader\" was a timely collection that places the Chiapas struggle in a historical perspective back to the sixteenth century.\n\nOn November 21, 2009, he received the 1808 Medal, given by the Mexico City government. He gave it up to the Mexican Union of Electricians, saying: \"My infinite respect for the ability of Mexicans to transform in benefit of the majority their moments of crisis. Such conviction moves me to give honor and deliver this medal to the most important, most courageous organization that took form in this city during the revolutionary wars at the beginning of the last century, the Mexican Union of Electricians (...)\". He was interviewed by Adela Pineda Franco and Jaime Marroquín Arrendondo on his views of the Mexican Revolution, the movie \"Viva Zapata\", and the relevance of Zapata in modern Mexico. \"In Mexico, for complicated, still largely unexamined historical reasons, the exploited classes cannot count on politicians or intellectuals for guidance to overthrow the systems of exploitation, centered in New York, proliferated into centers in Mexico, concentrated, of course in Mexico City. Like the people in Morelos, 1900-1911, the exploited have to figure out for themselves, not trusting the politicians they know whatever they howl, whatever they promise.\"\n\nWomack also serves on the board of directors for FFIPP-USA (Faculty for Israeli-Palestinian Peace-USA) which is a network of Palestinian, Israeli, and International faculty, and students, working for an end of the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territories and just peace.\n\n"}
{"id": "26446681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26446681", "title": "Judicial reform", "text": "Judicial reform\n\nJudicial reform is the complete or partial political reform of a country's judiciary. Judicial reform is often done as a part of wider reform of the country's political system or a legal reform.\n\nAreas of the judicial reform often include; codification of law instead of common law, moving from an inquisitorial system to an adversarial system, establishing stronger judicial independence with judicial councils or changes to appointment procedure, establishing mandatory retirement age for judges or enhancing independence of prosecution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7378421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7378421", "title": "Kedukan Bukit inscription", "text": "Kedukan Bukit inscription\n\nThe Kedukan Bukit Inscription was discovered by the Dutchman M. Batenburg on 29 November 1920 at Kedukan Bukit, South Sumatra, Indonesia, on the banks of the River Tatang, a tributary of the River Musi. It is the oldest surviving specimen of the Malay language, in a form known as Old Malay. It is a small stone of 45 by 80 cm. This inscription is dated the year 11, 02, 605 Saka (1, 05, 683 AD).\n\nThese inscriptions were written in a sister system of Vatteluttu and Grantha called the Pallava alphabet, developed by ancient Tamils to write Tamil and contain numerous Sanskrit words.\n\nGeorge Coedes states the inscription tells us, \"that on April 23, 682, a king began an expedition (\"siddhayatra\") by boat, that on May 19 he left an estuary with an army moving simultaneously by land and sea, and that, a month later, he brought victory, power, and wealth to Srivijaya. This anonymous king is almost certainly the Jayanasa who founded a public park two years later, on March 23, 684, at Talang Tuwo...\"\n\nTransliteration 1:\n\nTransliteration 2:\n\nLiteral translation:\n\nDetailed translation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55428493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55428493", "title": "Language event", "text": "Language event\n\nLanguage event (German: \"Sprachereignis\") is an act or instance of written or spoken communication. In the 1920s earliest use of the word was found in \"Journal of Philosophy\". In theology this word was used by Ernest Fuchs, relating to New Hermeneutic. Fuchs' doctrine of language helped to inspire a \"new quest\" for the historical Jesus because it could now be said that Jesus' words and deeds constituted that \"language event\" in which faith first entered into language, thereby becoming available as an existential possibility within language, the \"house of being\" (Heidegger). Conversely, the reality of God's love is verbalized in Jesus' words and deeds recorded in the Gospels and is thus preserved as language gain(Sprachgewinn). In the freedom of proclamation God's presence in the gospel as the \"Yes of love\" happens again-that is, comes to be as language, opening up the future to authentic existence (faith, hope, and love)\n\nAccording to the Epistles of Paul, the proclaimed Word of God effects and creates faith. Faith is thus the creature of the word (\"creatura verbi\"). So it says in Paul's letter to the Romans (Rom 10,17 EU):\n\"Faith thus comes from preaching, but preaching by the word of Christ.\"\nThus, for Paul, faith arises from hearing the apostolic message of faith. Yet this \"fides ex auditu\" is a gift from God.\n\nMartin Luther defines the believing people as \"homo audiens\". According to him, listening to the Word requires faith in man. This \"verbality\" of faith is central to his theology. Again and again this emphasizes the vocabulary of faith and that the word should be praised as a means of grace. Faith embraces the word that is offered to it. So it is z. Eg in his second Psalm lecture (1519/20) on Ps 18.45 VUL:\n\n\"Actum igitur credendi (ut vocant) nescio quibus verbis possis aptius eloqui quam ista periphrasi divina:\" auditu auris audivit mihi \", hoc est, stultus sibi fuit populus gentium, ut mihi crederet in his, quae non videret nec caperet.\"\n\n- Martin Luther: WA 5, 537, 3\n\"Therefore, I do not know with which words you could pronounce the event of faith (as they call it) more fittingly than by this divine description:\" It [the people] hears me with obedient ears \", that is to say, simple is for themselves the people of People so that it believed me in things that neither saw nor grasped. \"\n\nBy referring to the passage as a \"transcription\", Luther means the \"inner\" and \"spiritual\" hearing through which the act of believing (actum credendi) is characterized. In accordance with such a Lutheran understanding of the word, Fuchs will later develop his theory of the language event.\n\nErnest Fuchs insisted that speeches from the language event is in the Pauline-Lutheran tradition. For Fuchs, word and faith essentially belong together: faith has its essence from its relationship to the word. Faith is the listening to the word that meets it, by which he means the Gospel concretely. For this reason, Fuchs sees the speech event as the unfolding of faith: it causes the listener to change the situation from \"not-being\" to being in the existence of God. This understanding of speech thus represents a fundamental category of his hermeneutics. Fuchs is keen to emphasize the passivity of man. For this he uses the term of silence. Man does not move in her, but is moved by the speech event. Language live on the silence.\nIn the language event, the language itself leads to that silence of which it lives. In addition, Fuchs sees his statements of eloquent and significant language parallel to the distinction between being and being (see also Heidegger). While merely indicative language offers only an expression of beings, a speech event justifies being and allows it to be present. Fuchs applies his doctrine of the linguistic event to various theological disciplines, namely, the preaching of Jesus, the theology of Paul and the Easter event.\n\nGerhard Ebeling continues to use the concept of the language event as a demarcation to dogmatic doctrine. Ebeling understands the sacrament as \"language event\".\n\nEberhard Jüngel, theologically influenced by Ernest Fuchs, proved to be a proponent of the language event. He took it over in his book \"Paul and Jesus\" as a demarcation to Rudolf Bultmann.\n\n"}
{"id": "1160349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160349", "title": "Lapis Satricanus", "text": "Lapis Satricanus\n\nThe Lapis Satricanus (\"Stone of Satricum\"), is a yellow stone found in the ruins of the ancient town of Satricum, near Borgo Montello (), a village of southern Lazio, dated late 6th to early 5th centuries BC. It was found in 1977 during excavations by C.M. Stibbe. It reads:\n\nThis inscription has attracted attention for several reasons. Its language has been identified as Old Latin or a closely related dialect. It is important for comparative Indo-European grammar, as it is the only Latin inscription to show the ending \"-osio\" for the genitive singular of the thematic noun declension. Latin later has \"-ī\" as the ending for this case, but by comparison with Sanskrit, Mycenaean and Homeric Greek and other languages, it becomes clear that \"-osio\" is a far earlier form.\n\nAnother point of interest is the presence of the word \"suodales\" (Classical Latin \"sodales\"). In historic times, this word referred to a member of a \"sodalites\", a religious fraternity or brotherhood who met for ritual meals or as a burial organization. \"Since the \"suod-\" element in \"suodales\" is cognate with the English word 'swear'\", writes Gary Forsythe, \"the term suggests that some kind of oath was taken, binding the members of the group together in a common purpose.\" Forsythe uses this and that this was a dedication to Mars to suggest this indicates the existence of an armed group of sworn followers, similar to \"the war bands led by Homeric heroes, the warlike aristocratic companions of the Macedonian kings during the classical period, and the war bands surrounding the Celtic and Germanic chieftains described by Caesar and Tacitus\". Forsythe notes this puts a new light on the account of the Battle of the Cremera, an event where the entire gens Fabii fought as a group the armed men of the rival town of Veii only to be tragically defeated.\n\nA third point of interest to historians and archaeologists of early Latium is the name preserved on the inscription. The archaic name of Poplios Valesios is rendered in Classical Latin as \"Publius Valerius\". That has inevitably led to speculation that the inscription refers to none other than the famous Publius Valerius Publicola, the patrician ally of Lucius Junius Brutus who dominates the list of early consuls recorded by the \"Fasti Capitolini\" and is credited, in traditional accounts, as one of the primary founders of the Roman Republic. Positive identification is at least somewhat problematic because the town of Satricum was not part of Roman territory when Publius Valerius was consul. However, the \"lapis\" itself may not have been dedicated in Satricum in the first place since it was found as part of a collection of recycled material used in the construction of a temple in the town, and it could well have been imported from elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "38160361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38160361", "title": "Law and Social Inquiry", "text": "Law and Social Inquiry\n\nLaw and Social Inquiry is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the American Bar Foundation. It was established in 1976. The current editor-in-chief is Christopher W. Schmidt (Chicago-Kent College of Law). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 0.861.\n"}
{"id": "24915528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24915528", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Russia", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Russia\n\nThis a list of UNESCO World Heritage sites in Russia. Currently, there are 28 World Heritage sites in Russia. 17 properties are cultural and 11 are natural. 24 more properties are on UNESCO's tentative list.\n\nThe table lists information about each World Heritage site:\n\nThere are currently twenty-four properties in the tentative list.\n\nThe sites are sorted in the chronological order of their addition to the tentative list.\n\n"}
{"id": "6855695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6855695", "title": "MTSAT Satellite Augmentation System", "text": "MTSAT Satellite Augmentation System\n\nMulti-functional Satellite Augmentation System (MTSAT or MSAS) is a Japanese satellite based augmentation system (SBAS), i.e. a satellite navigation system which supports differential GPS (DGPS) to supplement the GPS system by reporting (then improving) on the reliability and accuracy of those signals. MSAS is operated by Japan's Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Japan Civil Aviation Bureau (JCAB). Tests have been accomplished successfully, MSAS for aviation use was commissioned on 27 September 2007.\n\nThe use of SBASs, such as MSAS, enables an individual GPS receiver to correct its own position, offering a much greater accuracy. Typically GPS signal accuracy is improved from some 20 meters to approximately 1.5–2 meters in both the horizontal and vertical dimensions.\nMSAS provides a similar service to Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) in North America, and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) in Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58058233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58058233", "title": "Magistrate for Health", "text": "Magistrate for Health\n\nThe Magistrate for Health () was a magistracy of the Republic of Venice instituted in 1485 to manage public health in the city of Venice and its territories, with specific attention to preventing the spread of epidemics within the maritime republic. The magistracy was expanded several times, notably in 1556 with the introduction of a supervisory role and in 1563 with a regulatory body. It was among the first health authorities in Europe to institute public inoculation projects to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. The office of the Magistrate for Health was retained until the Fall of the Republic of Venice, during which tumultuous time it was briefly replaced by a health committee and eventually superseded by other magistracies entirely.\n\nThe Magistrate for Health initially comprised three superintendents appointed by the Venetian Senate, but fell under the jurisdiction of the Great Council of Venice in 1537. In 1556, it was expanded with two supervisors tasked with directing and controlling the work of the superintendents in the name of the Republic. In 1563, a regulatory body for the activities of the Magistrate for Health was introduced in the form of a college of ten “wise men” () who were elected individually by the Venetian Senate.\n\nThe authority of the Magistrate for Health extended not only to the entirety of the Venetian Lagoon but also to the other cities of the Venetian Republic by means of establishing health offices in each. Extensive infrastructure was introduced in the Ionian Islands, which were viewed particularly throughout the 17th and 18th centuries as likely sources of disease outbreaks due to its proximity to Asia Minor and by extension the Ottoman Empire. \n\nDuring the Fall of the Republic of Venice, as Napoleon’s troops were occupying the Republic’s territory with numerous reforms to government and infrastructure, the office of the Magistrate for Health was folded into the Health Committee () for a short period of time before eventually being disbanded, with its duties assigned to other magistracies.\n\nUpon its institution as a permanent body, the Magistrate for Health was tasked with safeguarding the public health of the state, with particular attention to preventing the spread of foreign diseases within the republic’s territory, a regular threat for a city with such extensive reliance on trade routes bearing risk of contact with foreign outbreaks (notably in the 1347 outbreak of the Black Death, in which Venice’s interactions with seagoing vessels had made it one of the first cities in Europe to be devastated by the plague). In order to do so, the superintendents (and upon their introduction, the supervisors) were empowered with numerous legal authorities, including the right to pronounce capital punishment, ostensibly for purposes of quarantine. \n\nThe officials of the Magistrate for Health exercised their authority in supervising a wide range of professions and services: in addition to the colleges of barbers and physicians, it regularly supervised the food industry, lazar houses, waste disposal, sewage and water management and mortuary services. It was also known to interact with prostitutes, vagrants, beggars and guesthouses, further aiding the surveillance of possible transmission of foreign maladies within their jurisdiction. However, in many cases, their authority was often not direct; for example, the lazar houses, or \"lazaretti\", were able to bypass local health authorities and report directly to the regional government in times of low disease activity, only falling under the health office’s direct jurisdiction in times of emergency.\n\nThe Venetian Magistrate for Health was the second health provider in Italy to introduce variolation, which had only recently been introduced to Europe from eastern schools of medicine, as a means of inoculation against smallpox, preceded only by the Hospital of Santa Maria degli Innocenti in Florence, and the first to offer it freely to the public for purposes of herd immunity.\n\nDespite their precautions, epidemics continued to occur regularly in Venice. The outbreak of plague of 1576–1577 killed around 50,000 in Venice, almost a third of the population; a similar proportion of the population was killed in 1630 in the Italian plague of 1629-31, when around 46,000 of the city’s 140,000 citizens were killed. In order to enable control and quarantine of disease outbreaks, officials of the Magistrate for Health were able to impose periods of isolation of at least 14 days, upper length dependent on the situation in the port of question, and to cordon off areas of the cities. Independent branches of the Venetian health services immediately discontinued trade and travel to and from Venice, functioning independently with the immediate isolation order of the Venetian Senate until the outbreak abated. Other methods of disease control included an intricate network of information and messaging, allowing for efficient reporting of and response to outbreaks, and the capacity to mobilise local coastal garrisons to carry out inspections, allowing isolation of plague-infested areas using pre-existing infrastructure.\n\nThe Archive of the Superintendents for Health contains nearly four centuries of documentation on not only the conditions of public health and sanitation within the Venetian Republic, but also of other contemporary states, on account of the extensive information gathered by the officials from their foreign counterparts as part of their regular surveillance of potential foreign-borne epidemics. The inventory for the archive, along with an index of names and locations, was published by Salvatore Carbone in 1962.\n\n"}
{"id": "1408922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1408922", "title": "Off-color humor", "text": "Off-color humor\n\nOff-color humor (also known as vulgar humor, crude humor, or shock humor) is humor that deals with topics that may be considered to be in poor taste or overly vulgar. Many comedic genres (including jokes, prose, poems, black comedy, blue comedy, insult comedy, cringe comedy and skits) can incorporate vulgar elements. \n\nMost commonly labeled as \"off-color\" are acts concerned with sex, a particular ethnic group, or gender. Other off-color topics include violence, particularly domestic abuse; excessive swearing or profanity; \"toilet humor\" / scatological humor; national superiority or inferiority, pedophilic content, and any topics generally considered impolite or indecent. Generally, the point of off-color humor is to induce laughter by evoking a feeling of shock and surprise in the comedian's audience. In this way, off-color humor is related to other forms of postmodern humor, such as the anti-joke.\n\nOff-color humor was used in Ancient Greek comedy, primarily by its most famous contributor and representative, Aristophanes. His work parodied some of the great tragedians of his time, especially Euripides, using sexual and excremental jokes that received great popularity among his contemporaries. \n\nWilliam Shakespeare, the 16th-century playwright and poet, is well known for his ribald humor. Almost every one of his plays contains suggestive jokes and innuendo.\n\nJonathan Swift, an Irish satirist in the 17th century, used scatological humor in some of his pieces, including his famous essay A Modest Proposal and his rather crude poem \"The Lady's Dressing Room\", in which the speaker comments on the goings-on in a 17th-century woman's room, including her business in her chamber pot.\n\nDirty jokes were once considered subversive and underground, and rarely heard in public. Comedian Lenny Bruce was tried, convicted, and jailed for obscenity after a stand up performance that included off-color humor in New York City in 1964. Comedian and actor Redd Foxx was well known in nightclubs in the 1960s and 1970s for his raunchy stand-up act, but toned it down for the television shows \"Sanford and Son\" and \"The Redd Foxx Comedy Hour\", stating in the first monologue of the latter show that the only similarity between the show and his nightclub act was that \"I'm smoking\". American society has become increasingly tolerant of off-color humor since that time. Such forms of humor have become widely distributed and more socially acceptable, in part due to the mainstream success in the 1970s and 1980s of comedians like Peter Cook and Dudley Moore's alter-egos Derek and Clive, Dolemite, and Andrew Dice Clay. George Carlin and Richard Pryor have used it as an effective tool for social commentary.\n\nIn the 1990s and modern era, comedians such as Bill Hicks, Doug Stanhope, and Dave Chappelle have used shocking content to draw attention to their criticism of social issues, especially censorship and the socioeconomic divide. Dave Attell and Louis C.K. are recognised as the modern masters of off-color humor that focuses on absurd topics.The cartoon \"Beavis and Butt-head\" was especially off-color in its early episodes, which included numerous depictions of animal cruelty. The highly praised television show \"South Park\" also popularized the use of offensive humor, for which the show has become infamous. The Aristocrats is perhaps the most famous dirty joke in the US and is certainly one of the best-known and most oft-repeated among comedians themselves. Tom Green has used shock humor in \"The Tom Green Show\" and the film \"Freddy Got Fingered\", using outrageous stunts and jokes to draw an audience in.\n\nIn British humor, the genre of \"sick jokes\" is often used to shock by poking fun at taboo or as a reaction against political correctness. Examples include the website B3ta and its accompanying book \"The Bumper B3ta Book of Sick Jokes\", the humor wiki Sickipedia and the adult comic \"Viz\".\n\nIn some parts of the world, including India, sexual humor in particular is known as \"non-veg\" humor, contrasted with the \"veg\" jokes that are more acceptable in polite company. The use of the term \"non-veg\" is probably a reference to the carnal nature of sexual humor, and can be viewed in the context of the prevalence of both vegetarian and non-vegetarian dietary preferences in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "31340782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31340782", "title": "Politics, Philosophy &amp; Economics (journal)", "text": "Politics, Philosophy &amp; Economics (journal)\n\nPolitics, Philosophy & Economics is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers philosophical aspects of political science and economy. It was established in 2002 and is published by Sage Publications.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Academic Search Premier, the British Humanities Index, Current Contents, the Economic Literature Index, Scopus, and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 0.512, ranking it =115th out of 163 journals in the category \"Political Science\" and 37th out of 51 journals in the category \"Ethics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14616326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14616326", "title": "Politics in Futurama", "text": "Politics in Futurama\n\nThe animated science fiction show \"Futurama\" presents a satirical look at politics and current affairs in a number of its episodes. Series creator Matt Groening intended from the outset that \"Futurama\" would lampoon not only the conventions of science fiction, but elements of present-day life, serving as a form of political and social satire.\n\nThe most significant change in global politics presented in \"Futurama\"'s view of the 31st century is that the whole of Earth is governed by a single united government. This united government has many similarities to the present-day United States' political system; its capital is Washington, D.C., it is a two-party system of the \"Fingerlican\" and \"Tastycrat\" parties with a number of inconsequential third parties, the government is headed by a president, and there are references to a constitution and an expanded bill of rights. In the episodes \"The Day the Earth Stood Stupid\" and a \"A Head in the Polls\" third parties mentioned include the \"Rainbow Whigs\", \"Antisocialists\", the \"Voter Apathy Party\", \"Reform Party\", the \"Green Party\", \"Brain Slug Party\", \"Dudes for the Legalation of of Hemp\" [sic], \"Bull Space Moose Party\", \"National Ray-Gun Association\", \"People for the Ethical Treatment of Humans\", and \"One Cell, One Vote\".\n\nCitizens of Earth are referred to as \"Earthicans\". In the episodes \"When Aliens Attack\" and \"Anthology of Interest II\" there is evidence that the Countries of Earth are still bound to the U.N. (the UN New York Offices appear in \"When Aliens Attack\"), headed by the Earth President. Each member appears to remain individual, sending their own representative to the UN and maintaining many of their own cultures and languages, but also show evidence of multiculturalism (France now speaks English and French is apparently a dead language, for example). It is not clear how much power the countries actually have in the Earthican government, though it appears that remnants of many U.S. states, for example, have survived into the 31st century, including \"New New York\", \"New New Jersey\", \"Nukevada\", \"Penn Republic\" and \"Sylvania\".\n\n\"Old Freebie\", the name of Earth's flag, contains the thirteen stripes of the Flag of the United States and the Grand Union Flag but instead of the 50 stars or the Union Flag in the canton it has a picture of the globe, with North and South America prominently centered. In the episode \"A Taste of Freedom\", Doctor Zoidberg eats the flag, causing an interplanetary incident. This reflects several controversies surrounding the desecration of the American flag.\n\nThe former U.S. Supreme Court has become the Earth's Supreme Court. According to Richard Nixon's head, the Earth's Supreme Court is the \"one place where the Constitution doesn't mean squat\". The current Chief Justice is Snoop Dogg while the other members of the Supreme Court are several preserved, jar heads of the members of the U.S. Supreme Court during the 1990s, like Scalia, Thomas or Ginsberg, while the other members are singers or actresses such as Björk or Katey Sagal (who voices Leela). Myrtle Fu, a female judge who resembles Judge Judy, was the last non-head in jar Justice at the Supreme Court. Abe Vigoda was also a member of the Court. In \"Into the Wild Green Yonder\", Leela and her environmentalist cohorts are convicted of various crimes because, while all five female justices vote to acquit, each female justice has only half a vote.\n\nThe President of Earth is introduced in the episode \"When Aliens Attack\", in the person of President McNeal. In a case of mistaken identity, McNeal is vaporized by invading Omicronians. In a later episode, \"A Head in the Polls\", a presidential election is held. Initially two clones, John Jackson and Jack Johnson, run for the presidency, representing the \"Fingerlican\" and \"Tastycrat\" parties respectively. Later in the episode, Richard Nixon enters the running, his living head preserved in a glass jar and mounted on Bender's previously pawned body. At first Nixon's head is presented in a positive light, an effort by the writers to point out laudable elements of the real Richard Nixon's political career. However, it is soon revealed that Nixon's head has evil intentions, planning to \"sell children's organs to zoos for meat\" and \"go into people's houses at night and wreck up the place!\" His campaign is almost undone after Fry, Leela and Bender record his confession and use it to blackmail him into giving back Bender's body, but he wins by a single vote after overwhelming support from Earth's robotic voters in response to his colossal new robot body.\n\nNixon's head reappears as President of Earth in numerous subsequent episodes. Nixon runs for office a third time in \"Decision 3012\" against a candidate from the future, Chris Travers, sent back to prevent Nixon from destroying the world with his political decisions (Nixon demands the candidate's \"earth certificate\", parodying the controversy over Barack Obama's birth certificate). Nixon loses, but this causes a time paradox causing his challenger to disappear, and he wins by default. Series creator Matt Groening has expressed pleasure at being able to continue poking fun at Nixon thirty or forty years after he was in office.\n\nNixon's head's subsequent appearances in \"Futurama\" are often used for satirical humor. An example is the episode \"Three Hundred Big Boys\", where Nixon gives a $300 tax rebate to every Earthican, spoofing the rebate that was part of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001.\n\nOther themes include voting and participating in the political process. In \"A Head In The Polls\", Fry debates if he should vote, saying \"like one vote ever made a difference” after which Leela tells him about a robot candidate who won an election by one vote. Later in the episode, neither Fry, Bender, or Leela end up voting after Fry and Leela forgot Bender meanwhile cannot vote as he is a registered felon, and Nixon, with a \"gigantic missile-firing bionic body\" wins the presidency by one robot vote.\n\nThe \"Futurama\" universe has a cooperative interplanetary organization known as the Democratic Order of Planets or D.O.O.P.. First mentioned in the episode \"Love's Labours Lost in Space\", it is explored in more detail in \"Brannigan Begin Again\", in which it is compared to the present-day United Nations and the Federation from \"Star Trek\". The D.O.O.P. flag is styled on the flag of the United Nations with two olive branches representing peace, replacing the globe image with an atom diagram with the word \"doop\" in lowercase in the center. The D.O.O.P. maintains a military capability, most often led by Zapp Brannigan. The typography of D.O.O.P. is identical to that used by the one-hit wonder of the same name. Combating this group are a \"rampaging alien race\" that wants to take over Earth for commercial purposes named the Omicronians.\n\nEpisodes with environmental themes include \"A Big Piece of Garbage\", \"The Problem with Popplers\", \"The Birdbot of Ice-Catraz\", \"Crimes of the Hot\", \"Fun on a Bun\", \"Attack of the Killer App\" (partially), and \"Fry Am the Egg Man.\"\n\nFormer Vice President of the United States and prominent environmentalist Al Gore is a recurring guest star, due in part to his daughter Kristin Gore's involvement in the show as a staff writer and story editor. He has appeared as himself in story segments set in the early 21st century (\"Anthology of Interest I\" and \"Bender's Big Score\") and as his own head in a jar in the 31st century (\"Crimes of the Hot\" and \"Bender's Big Score\"). His portrait also adorns the $500 bill (written prior to the controversial election in 2000), and he is described as the \"inventor of the environment, and first \"Emperor of the Moon.\"\n\nThe episode \"Crimes of the Hot\" centers around the issue of global warming. The temporary solution of cooling the Earth with giant ice cubes dropped periodically into the ocean is no longer possible because Halley's Comet, the source of the ice, has been mined completely hollow. At a scientific conference, led by Al Gore, Professor Farnsworth reveals that beer-powered robots, including Bender, are the source of current global warming, and President Nixon and Professor Wernstrom attempt to destroy all robots on Earth by tricking them to convene on the Galapagos Islands for a party, and then bathe the islands in electromagnetic waves from a satellite in space. Fry, Leela, and Farnsworth arrive in time, and Farnsworth tells every robot to aim their exhaust ports upward and expel their gasses, creating a makeshift engine that pushes Earth away from the sun, thus cooling Earth and causing the electromagnetic beams to miss. \nThe episode was nominated for the Environmental Media Award in 2003. Al Gore's appearance in the episode was also listed as one of the 20 best animated politicians by \"The Phoenix\".\n\nAl Gore's involvement with the show continued after it was cancelled in 2003. In promoting the documentary film \"An Inconvenient Truth\", the producers of \"Futurama\" were approached to make a short animated trailer, starring Al Gore and Bender. This trailer was released online, and is included as an extra on the DVD of \"Bender's Big Score\", with a commentary track by Al Gore, David X. Cohen and Series creator Matt Groening. \"An Inconvenient Truth\" used a clip from the episode \"Crimes of the Hot\" to humorously explain how global warming works.\n\nIn \"Xmas Story\" Leela explains that snow still exists in the future because, even though global warming occurred, \"nuclear winter canceled it out.\"\n\nThe episode \"The Birdbot of Ice-Catraz\" tackles the issues of pollution and its effect on wildlife. In a parody of the Exxon \"Valdez\" oil spill, a tanker spaceship (piloted by a sober Bender) spills its cargo of \"dark matter oil\" on a penguin colony on Pluto. The dark matter actually functioned as an aphrodisiac, or as the environmentalist puts it \"a Penguin Spanish fly\", so rather than killing the penguin population, the pollution vastly increases the speed and rate of their breeding, as even the males were producing eggs. This leads the conservationists, who originally set out to save the wildlife and clean up the oil spill, to resort to hunting the penguins to prevent them starving from overpopulation. The episode's stance on the issue of hunting was influenced by some of the writers on \"The Simpsons\", which has also presented multiple viewpoints on controversial issues.\n\nThe episode \"The Problem with Popplers\" addresses conservationism in a similar fashion: it focuses primarily on the animal rights movement, parodying People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals with Mankind for Ethical Animal Treatment (M.E.A.T.) a vegan activist group that, among other things, attempt to teach carnivorous animals to eat tofu. This episode won an Environmental Media Award in 2000.\n\nThe \"Futurama\" movie \"\" showcases the fight between conservationism and the interests of big business; the construction of the universe's largest giant mini golf course (headed by Amy's father, Leo Wong) threatens to destroy 12% (an entire branch) of the Milky Way. An environmental survey headed by Professor Farnsworth and the \"Futurama\" crew discovers an asteroid full of primitive life, orbiting a violet dwarf star. However, Farnsworth has been bribed by Leo, and declares the destruction 'environmentally friendly', leading to plans for the dwarf star to be imploded, creating a black hole. This leads to two groups trying to sabotage this plan – a group of eco-feminists, who are joined by Amy, Leela and LaBarbara Conrad, who start destroying equipment, machines and sections of the golf course, and even accidentally kill Nixon's beloved vice-president, Agnew. The second group is the Legion of Madfellows, a secret organization of mind readers, of which Fry joins. They prophesize a new green age, headed by a resurgence in the life force Chi, which they believe will be started by the asteroid and the dwarf star. A resurgence in the Chi would halt the extinction rate, and increase the diversity of life by preserving endangered species DNA and reintroducing extinct life forms through the Encyclopod. Fry is given the responsibility to preserve and protect it at all costs.\n\nThe episode \"Proposition Infinity\" depicts an attempt to legalize \"robosexual marriage,\" or marriage between robots and humans, after Bender and Amy fall in love. It closely parodies the events surrounding, as well as arguments for and against, Proposition 8 of California from the 2008 election. Ultimately, \"robosexual marriage\" is legalized with this \"future civil rights movement.\"\n\nThroughout the Futurama episodes there is a theme of, as Series creator Matt Groening put it in 1999, a \"corporate, commercial, confusing world where the military is just as stupid as it is currently\" with a \"corrupt megacorporation\" named MomCorp which is run by a \"scrawny elderly woman\" who is very rich \"from manufacturing Mom's Old-Fashioned Robot Oil.\" This theme is expanded by characters being \"thoroughly inundated by advertising, especially subliminal advertising that comes out of your pillow into your dreams\" and having \"ridiculous-but-cool tech gadgets\" that don't work as they were expected to, not improving the economy.\n\nAdditionally, people are tested to find out what they would be \"best at in life,\" as shown in \"Space Pilot 3000\" and other episodes, a choice that Bender, Fry, and other characters reject, wanting to \"go against their programming, whether or not they will be successful.\"\n\nThe show also criticized jingoism in \"A Taste Of Freedom\", lampooned groups like Parents Television Council and Parents Against Media Violence with groups like \"Fathers Against Rude Television\" and criticized the star system in \"Bender Should Not Be Allowed on TV\" and \"Calculon 2.0\" while addressing the controversy around genetically-modified food in \"Leela and the Genestalk\".\n\nElsewhere in the show, the place of robots in human society and sentient robots are also addressed as issues which fit with the science fiction genre.\n\nOther than this, numerous episodes address the themes of time travel, including \"Mobius Dick\", \"All the Presidents' Heads\", \"Roswell That Ends Well\" and \"Space Pilot 3000\", plagiarism and exploitation in \"Yo Leela Leela\", and 3-D printing in \"Forty Percent Leadbelly\". Additionally, in \"The Mutants Are Revolting\", the \"mutants\" engage in a revolution to demand their rights to live on the surface, an event which may reference the Stonewall riots.\n\n\"The Boston Phoenix\" included the episode \"A Head in the Polls\" in a list of the best political satires in animation.\n\nDuring the 2016 presidential election in the United States, voice actor Billy West read quotes of Donald Trump's doctor in the voice of Dr. Zoidberg. He also read quotes from Trump in the voice of Zapp Brannigan. Also during the election, there were popular memes which imposed Trump's quotations onto images of the captain of the \"Nimbus\", Zapp Brannigan.\n"}
{"id": "17995396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17995396", "title": "Prison Legal News", "text": "Prison Legal News\n\n\"Prison Legal News\" (PLN) is a monthly American magazine and on-line periodical published since May 1990. \"Prison Legal News\" (PLN) primarily reports on criminal justice issues and prison and jail-related civil litigation, mainly in the United States. It is a project of the Human Rights Defense Center (HRDC), a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization.\n\n\"Prison Legal News\" is the longest running newspaper produced by and for current and former prisoners in U.S history.\n\nPLN covers all aspects of the criminal justice system, including court access, prison conditions, privatization, disciplinary hearings, excessive force, mail censorship, jails, wrongful convictions, crime labs, visitation, prison phone services, immigration detention, religious freedom, free speech, prison rape, abuse of women prisoners, retaliation, the Prison Litigation Reform Act (PLRA), medical treatment, HIV and hepatitis C, prison slave labor, disenfranchisement, the death penalty and control units/supermax facilities. However, the mainstay of PLN's coverage from the beginning has been the issue of conditions of confinement.\n\n\"Prison Legal News\" was inspired by the need for prisoners and their families to have a voice in criminal justice policy and to provide timely, accurate news about justice-related issues and progressive reform efforts. PLN has been admired and disliked for its strong advocacy of prisoner rights, including its extensive litigation involving jails and prison systems.\n\nAs of February 2017, PLN had an average circulation of over 9,000 hardcopy issues per month. About 70% of PLN's subscribers are state and federal prisoners, and PLN has incarcerated subscribers in all fifty states. Based on PLN's media pack, each subscriber's magazine is read by an average of almost 10 people, so PLN's monthly readership is around 90,000. As of February 2017, subscriptions were $30/year for prisoners, $35/year for non-incarcerated individuals and $90/year for attorneys, government agencies and corporations.\n\nThe PLN website has over 18,000 news and law articles in its database. The publication section has more than 5,600 reports, audits and other documents related to criminal justice topics, and the brief bank contains over 7,500 assorted legal pleadings - including complaints, motions, appeal briefs, verdicts, judgments and settlements in prison and jail cases. The site receives over 150,000 visitors each month and also functions as a resource for media and community outreach as well as a platform for public education on criminal justice issues. A website subscription is $149.95/year and gives full access to all of PLN's online content.\n\n\"Prison Legal News\" also publishes and distributes legal reference and self-help educational books, ranging from their own in-house-published \"The Habeas Citebook: Ineffective Assistance of Counsel\" by Brandon Sample and the \"Prison Education Guide\" \"by\" Christopher Zoukis, to the Nolo legal how-to series, the \"Prisoners' Self-Help Litigation Manual\", and the \"Federal Prison Handbook\". PLN also distributes (free upon request) the \"Prisoner Diabetes Handbook\", and is the exclusive distributor of \"Protecting Your Health & Safety: A Litigation Guide for Inmates\", a book published by the Southern Poverty Law Center.\n\nIn addition to the monthly magazine and website, PLN has published three anthologies related to mass incarceration: \"The Celling of America: An Inside Look at the U.S Prison Industry\" (Common Courage Press, 1997); \"Prison Nation: The Warehousing of America's Poor (Routledge)\" (2003); and \"Prison Profiteers: Who makes Money from Mass Imprisonment\" (2008).\n\n\"PLN\" has been involved in litigation concerning First Amendment and censorship issues in the prison and jail context since 1994. Co-editor Ed Mead was prevented from assisting in publishing\" Prison Legal News\" due to a condition of his parole prohibiting association with other felons – a policy specifically enacted to prevent Mead from further involvement with PLN.\n\nIn 1997, PLN, represented by the ACLU of Washington, joined with other publishers and prisoner plaintiffs in a suit challenging the state of Washington DOC's wide-ranging censorship of incoming mail, publications and mail classifications, among other issues. The lawsuit was settled in 2000, with the state agreeing to change its censorship policies and pay the plaintiffs' attorney fees and costs.\n\n\"Prison Legal News\" obtained a preliminary injunction against the Nevada DOC's statewide ban on PLN, followed by a consent decree in which the DOC agreed to pay damages and change its policies concerning mail and publications. The matter was settled in September 2000.\n\nThe Supermax ADX prison, run by the federal Bureau of Prisons, enacted a policy banning all books related to prisons and prisoners. PLN filed suit in 2003 and withdrew the lawsuit in 2005 after the ADX mooted the claim by changing its unconstitutional policy.\n\nIn 2006, \"PLN\" and the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (CDCR) settled the magazine's claims that CDCR mail policies violated a number of federal and state rights, under precedents established by \"PLN.\" As a result of the settlement, CDCR ordered five-year subscriptions to \"PLN\" for all of its facilities and is being monitored by \"PLN\" for compliance.\n\nIn 2012, PLN settled with the State of New York, reversing a statewide ban on the magazine in New York prisons. That year, it also settled with Berkeley County, South Carolina, reaching the largest ever jail-related censorship settlement in the United States, totaling almost $600,000 in damages and attorney fees. The U.S. Department of Justice joined PLN in its lawsuit against the unconstitutional mail policies enacted by Berkeley County.\n\nIn 2015, PLN settled a case with the U.S Department of Homeland Security after PLN filed a FOIA request for records related to telephone services and other documents concerning the ability of immigration prisoners to communicate with people outside the Northwest Detention Center in Tacoma, Washington; this is operated by the GEO Corporation, a private for-profit company.\n\nIn addition to battling unconstitutional censorship through litigation (see the May 2010 issue of PLN for a full listing of cases), \"Prison Legal News\" has also filed numerous lawsuits related to public records and Freedom of Information Act requests in order to pursue its investigative reporting on detention facility issues.\n\nThese cases have led to landmark rulings. including \"PLN v. Washington Department of Corrections\", 115 P.3d 316 (Wash. 2005). At the time it was the largest penalty and attorney fee payout in a Washington state public records case in history and disclosed serious misconduct among Washington prison doctors.\n\n\nFounded as Prisoners Legal News, in 2009 PLN's parent organization was renamed as the Human Rights Defense Center. It is a non-profit organization dedicated to protecting the human rights of people held in U.S. detention facilities. HRDC also supports \"Prison Legal News\" in national campaigns in coordination with other advocacy groups 1) to lower prison phone rates; 2) to demand transparency and accountability of private prison contractors, and with numerous other activities related to the human rights of prisoners.\n\nPLN's editor and managing editor are former prisoners. The magazine features contributions from nationally recognized scholars and activists involved in criminal justice reform or advocacy efforts. Contributors include Mumia Abu Jamal, Noam Chomsky, Marie Gottschalk, Prison Policy Initiative Director Peter Wagner, Prison Law Office Director Donald Specter and ACLU National Prison Project Director David Fathi, and Christopher Zoukis, founder of PrisonEducation.com and PrisonerResource.com. The bulk of PLN's content is written by current and former prisoners. As of 2017, \"Prison Legal News\" has published continuously for 27 years.\n"}
{"id": "19353014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19353014", "title": "Religion (journal)", "text": "Religion (journal)\n\nReligion is a peer-reviewed academic journal in the field of Religious Studies. It was founded in 1971, with close ties to the Religious Studies program at the University of Lancaster. That program was founded and chaired by Ninian Smart, and he served as the Chairman of the first editorial board. Four companies have published the journal over the years: Oriel Press (1971–72), Routledge & Kegan Paul (1973–80), Academic Press (1981–2000), Elsevier (2001–2010), and currently Routledge.\n\n\"Religion\" publishes academic work on all issues of Religious Studies, including the history, literature, thought, practise, material culture, and institutions of particular religious traditions from a variety of perspectives such as social scientific, humanistic, cognitive, economical, geographical, etc. (but excluding work that falls purely within the areas of theology or philosophy of religion). The journal has European and North-American editors (currently Michael Stausberg and Steven Engler) and a multi-national Editorial Board.\n\nThe journal is abstracted in:\nArts & Humanities Citation Index, ATLA (American Theological Library Association), International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, Dietrich's Index Philosophicus, Academic Search, Current Abstracts, Humanities International Index, New Testament Abstracts, Old Testament Abstracts, SocINDEX, TOC Premier, SCOPUS, Gale, Humanities Index, Russian Academy of Sciences Bibliographies, ProQuest, Current Contents.\n\n"}
{"id": "641244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=641244", "title": "Shadow marks", "text": "Shadow marks\n\nShadow marks are a form of archaeological feature visible from the air. Unlike cropmarks, frost marks and soil marks they require upstanding features to work and are therefore more commonly seen in the context of extant sites rather than previously undiscovered buried ones.\n\nThey are caused by the differences in height on the ground produced by archaeological remains. In the case of ancient, eroded earthworks these differences are often small and they are most apparent when viewed from the air, when the sun is low in the sky. This causes long shadows to be cast by the higher features, which are illuminated from one side by the sun, with dark shadows marking hollows and depressions.\n\nShadow marks are best viewed obliquely rather than from directly above in order to emphasise the effect of the shadows.\n\nArtificial shadow marks can be created easily by constructing a virtual 3D model of a site by merging aerial images (pole, kite etc.) and then vectoring in a virtual light source. Such an applied lighting can be animated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36105018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36105018", "title": "Society for Underwater Historical Research", "text": "Society for Underwater Historical Research\n\nThe Society for Underwater Historical Research (SUHR) was an amateur maritime archaeology organisation operating in South Australia (SA). It was formed in 1974 by recreational scuba divers and other persons to pursue an interest in maritime archaeology and maritime history. The SUHR was renamed as the South Australian Archaeology Society in March 2012 as part of a plan to expand its activities beyond maritime archaeology to include other archaeological disciplines.\n\nThe SUHR was founded in September 1974 by recreational scuba divers principally from the Underwater Explorers Club of South Australia (UEC) and occupational scuba divers from government agencies such as the South Australian Museum and the South Australian Police, as well as a number of individuals interested in maritime history.\n\nThe origin of the SUHR is due in part to the positive public response to the aftermath of a successful expedition in 1973 to locate and recover 2 anchors discarded during 1803 by the HMS \"Investigator\" whilst under the command of Matthew Flinders off the coast of what is now Western Australia. The recovery of the anchors and their connection to the voyage of the HMS \"Investigator\" is commemorated in the inclusion of the best bower anchor and the outline of the Australian continent on the SUHR emblem.\n\nAfter its formation in 1974, the SUHR was initially managed by a committee consisting of a President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and the following specialist officers – Research Officer, Registrar of Relics (added in 1976), an officer to liaise with the responsible part of the South Australian Government which was initially the South Australian Museum, and an officer to liaise with the South Australian Police Force (removed in 1978). By the late 1970s, it had evolved into a project-based organisation whose work consisted of activities such as planning, research, exploration, logistics, photography, survey and the publication of reports. Activities such as recovery and conservation, while historically significant, ceased to be carried out in the late 1980s except where permitted by archaeological practice.\nIn April 1982, a group within the membership who were unhappy with the increasing level of professionalization, resigned and founded a competing organisation known as the Nautical Archaeology Association of South Australia.\nIn 1999, after nearly a decade of stagnation, new life was breathed in the organisation via new funding opportunities and interest in membership from undergraduate and postgraduate archaeology students.\n\n\nThe SUHR also participated in archaeological work organised by others concerning the following wreck sites:\n\n\n\nDuring the late 1970s and the early 1980s, the SUHR actively lobbied alone and with others for government action on the following matters:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52999472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52999472", "title": "Superfest International Disability Film Festival", "text": "Superfest International Disability Film Festival\n\nSuperfest International Disability Film Festival is a juried film festival held in the San Francisco Bay Area. Superfest is the longest-running disability film festival in the world. In addition to featuring films developed by and starring people with disabilities, Superfest aims to be inclusive. The directors also coach the film makers about accessibility of films to people with disabilities. During the film festival, the organizers provide sign language interpreters and film narrators to allow for the attendees with various disabilities to appreciate the films. All of the judges for Superfest are people with disabilities from various community roles, including disability community organizers, disability studies scholars, and film aficionados. Superfest closely follows the disability rights slogan: Nothing About Us Without Us.\n\nStereotypes of disabilities are perpetuated through mainstream media and popular culture. The aim of Superfest is to showcase films created by people with disabilities, illustrating real life experiences of disability and how universal the topic of disability can be. Some film submissions are what the disability community refers to as inspiration porn. These stories are generally regarding people with disabilities completing a great feat, in spite of their disabilities, and never approach the topic of discrimination of people with disabilities or the social standards to which people with disabilities are held. Attendees express they can be authentic at Superfest and speak openly about their experiences.\n\nSuperfest is held over a weekend and is considered more of a cultural event than a film festival.\nThe Superfest International Disability Film Festival began in Los Angeles in 1970 as a non-profit organization dedicated to promoting films representing the diverse disability community. At that time, Superfest was a small film showcase and not yet considered a film festival. In 1982, Culture! Disability! Talent! (CDT) took over operations of Superfest. In 1995, CDT decided to move Superfest from Los Angeles to Berkeley. Berkeley is significant to the disability rights movement and independent living.\n\nIn 1998, Superfest expanded to encompass the San Francisco Bay Area. Annual film festivals were held in Berkeley from 1998 to 2011. In 2009, Superfest held a commemorative two-day program featuring 13 disability films the committee considered classics of disability in film called Superfest Classics.\n\nIn 2015, Superfest expanded to a two-day festival and recognized the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act being signed into legislation. With the beginnings as a grass-roots organization, Superfest has not been able to have a film festival each year since its founding. The 2016 festival was their 30th film festival.\n\nSource:\n\nIn 2013, Superfest presented a special event. This event was to highlight films where disability had been mocked or portrayed in an insensitive manner. These types of films where disability is mocked are referred to as disability snub films. The \"Dissies\" mirror the Razzies, where the award given is not an honor at all. Each year, a new \"Dissie\" is awarded from films nominated by the community. Mock \"Dissie\" awards are given each year to disability snub films.\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\nPamela Walker led the film festival efforts from 1998 to 2001, after which, Liane Yasumoto took over operations. Catherine Kudlick, the director of the Paul K. Longmore Institute on Disability at San Francisco State University, and Bryan Bashin, CEO of LightHouse for the Blind and Visually Impaired, joined together to direct Superfest starting in 2012.\n\nSince 2012, when the Longmore Institute on Disability and LightHouse for the Blind and Visually Impaired have directed Superfest, there has been a film festival each year, and the festivals have sold out each time.\n\nSuperfest now attracts over 300 attendees during the festival's two-day event. Film makers from both beginning and established backgrounds showcase their projects at Superfest. Film makers have debuted their films at Superfest and then gone on to receive broader distribution opportunities and further success. The film creators have expressed having Superfest as an opportunity to showcase their work is affirming.\n\nIn 2016, there were 119 film submissions for Superfest.\n"}
{"id": "53219268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53219268", "title": "The Hired Hand: An African-American Folktale", "text": "The Hired Hand: An African-American Folktale\n\nThe Hired Hand: An African-American Folktale is a 1997 book by Robert D. San Souci and illustrator Jerry Pinkney based on an African American folktale about an itinerant worker who is able to rejuvenate and resurrect people.\n\nA review of \"The Hired Hand\" by \"BookList\" wrote \"He [Pinkney] successfully blends historically realistic details with timeless folkloric magic, and he enhances San Souci's smooth retelling in the process. An obvious choice for primary story hours, this will also make a welcome addition to African American folklore and history units.\".\n\n\"The Hired Hand\" has also been reviewed by \"Publishers Weekly\", \"Kirkus Reviews\", \"School Library Journal\", and \"The Horn Book Magazine\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34130700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34130700", "title": "The Manipulated Man", "text": "The Manipulated Man\n\nThe Manipulated Man () is a 1971 book by author Esther Vilar. The main idea behind the book is that women are not oppressed by men but rather control men to their advantage. A third edition of the book was released in January 2009.\n\nThe book argues that, contrary to common feminist and women's rights rhetoric, women in industrialized cultures are not oppressed, but rather exploit a well-established system of manipulating men.\n\nVilar writes, \"Men have been trained and conditioned by women, not unlike the way Pavlov conditioned his dogs, into becoming their slaves. As compensation for their labours men are given periodic use of a woman's vagina.\" The book contends that young boys are encouraged to associate their masculinity with their ability to be sexually intimate with a woman, and that a woman can control a man by socially empowering herself to be the gate-keeper to his sense of masculinity. Vilar states that this has been going on for some time.\n\nThe author says that social definitions and norms, such as the idea that women are weak, are constructed by women with their needs in mind. Vilar explains how it works: if women are viewed as weak, less is expected of them; and therefore they are given more leeway in society than men. Vilar states that women are generally \"gold diggers\" who attempt to extract money and other material resources from men. One means by which women control men to effect this transfer of resources is praise. Women dole out praise to men only when their needs are met in some way.\n\nAnother means of manipulation is the calculated use of emotional displays. Vilar claims that women can control their emotional reactions whereas men cannot, and that women create overly-dramatized emotional reactions to get their way: they \"blackmail\" men emotionally. Women also use sex as a tool of manipulation and control but also traditional concepts of love and romance, which are seen more positively than sex, to control men's sexual lives. Vilar writes that men gain nothing from marriage and that women coerce them into it under the pretense that it fulfills their romantic desires.\n\nThe book closes with Vilar stating that it would be difficult to change the situation by appealing to women, as women are unsympathetic to the plight of men, and unwilling to give up their comfortable position in society. It is up to men to see past the deception and emotional blackmail and \nsubject it to open criticism before any meaningful changes can occur.\n\n\"The Manipulated Man\" was quite popular at the time of its release, in part due to the considerable press coverage it received.\n\nVilar appeared on \"The Tonight Show\" on February 21, 1973, to discuss her book. In 1975 she was invited to a televised debate by WDR with Alice Schwarzer, who was considered as the leading representative of the women's movement in Germany at that time. The debate provoked controversy, in particular for its high degree of aggression. At one point, for example, Schwarzer claimed Vilar was \"not only sexist, but fascist\", and compared her book with the Nazi newspaper \"Der Stürmer\".\n\nVilar stated that she received death threats over the book: \"So I hadn't imagined broadly enough the isolation I would find myself in after writing this book. Nor had I envisaged the consequences which it would have for subsequent writing and even for my private life—violent threats have not ceased to this date.\n\nAccording to research from the Spanish Book Institute, the Spanish translated version (under the title \"El Varón Domado\") was the third-most popular book sold in Spain in 1975.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33106835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33106835", "title": "Transcreation", "text": "Transcreation\n\nTranscreation is a term used chiefly by advertising and marketing professionals to refer to the process of adapting a message from one language to another, while maintaining its intent, style, tone, and context. A successfully transcreated message evokes the same emotions and carries the same implications in the target language as it does in the source language. Increasingly, transcreation is used in global marketing and advertising campaigns as advertisers seek to transcend the boundaries of culture and language. It also takes account of images which are used within a creative message, ensuring that they are suitable for the target local market.\n\nTerms with meanings similar to transcreation include ‘creative translation’, ‘cross-market copywriting’, ‘international copy adaptation’, ‘free-style translation‘, ‘marketing translation’, ‘internationalization’, ‘localization’, and ‘cultural adaptation’. For each of these words and phrases, the aim is similar: taking the essence of a message and re-creating it in another language and/or dialect.\n\nTranscreation is a relatively new term and its precise meaning is still being defined. In 2000 the term was registered as UK Trademark No. 2222617 by United Publicity Services Plc; this registration as a trademark expired in February 2010.\n\nWhen first used in the 1960s and 1970s transcreation was a term coined to describe the translation of creative ad copy. UPS Translations (now part of Intonation Translations) subsequently developed the term into a specific process for tackling the translation of highly creative language, rather than merely a general term to describe creative translations.\n\nAn alternative explanation of the etymology of transcreation is it is thought by some to have originated in the computer and video game industry in the 1980s. According to this view, early manufacturers found that merely translating the words (written and spoken) used in the games was not sufficient to satisfy the majority of users in targeted markets. To make the games more enjoyable and relevant to users in different cultures, the makers began to tailor images and modify story lines to match the culture and expectations of those users.\n\nIn the 1990s, marketers and advertising agencies with international accounts began using the term transcreation to distinguish their work in this field from translation. The implication is that, when bringing an existing advertising campaign to a market outside the source language, much more is needed than a translation.\n\nTranscreation is now a mainstream term in the Anglophone advertising and translation community. The American market research company, Common Sense Advisory, one of the major publishers of industry references for language service providers (LSPs), has recently published a large selection of articles featuring transcreation. The term is also recognized in Asian countries, including China. In 2010, the Chinese design and advertising publication, Modern Advertising Magazine, discussed the term in an article for the first time.\n\nAs the concept of transcreation has taken hold, advertising agencies and marketers, realizing its importance, have added departments dedicated to this service. Also, companies have sprung up that specialize in transcreative projects. These companies produce no original copy themselves, but are rather hired by international marketers and their advertising agencies to perform the process.\n\nAn example of how the concept has permeated other spheres is the collaboration between Marvel Comics and Gotham Entertainment Group in 2004, to produce a comic book for the Indian market featuring an Indian-born Spider-Man whose “real” name is Pavitr Prabhakar. Thus, rather than battling the Green Goblin in the canyons of New York City, Prabhakar, clad in a dhoti, fights the demon Rahshasa against backdrops such as the Taj Mahal. \"Unlike traditional translations of American comics, Spider-Man India will become the first-ever 'transcreation', where we reinvent the origin of a Western property,\" said Sharad Devarajan, the chief executive of the Gotham Entertainment Group. The goal in this case closely matched that of cross-cultural marketers: to make Spider-Man more relevant to the Indian audience, establish a deeper emotional connection with readers, and thus sell more comic books.\n\nTranscreation refers to the process of taking a message that was created in one language and conveying it in another language, without the loss of salience. While, in theory, any message is a candidate for transcreation, the bulk of transcreative work performed to date has been in the advertising industry in media such as brochures, TV and radio ads aimed at end clients, and posters and flyers distributed to resellers. Websites are also the subject of much transcreation.\n\nAs markets continue to broaden, advertisers face special challenges. To be effective, advertising must reach hearts as well as minds. Thus, the ability to transcend language and cultural boundaries is paramount to achieving an effective global marketing strategy. Not only must copy be translated correctly, but other factors must also be considered, such as culture, mores, dialects, idiom, humor, and context. Any perceived lack of respect for heritage, local values, beliefs and cultures may have a negative impact on consumers. To meet these challenges, companies that market internationally are increasingly using transcreation, whether via their advertising company or with a company specializing in transcreation.\n\nThe goal of transcreation is to transfer the intent, style, vocal tone, and emotional salience of the message from the source language to that of the targeted audience. The process thus requires expertise in marketing, as well as linguistic skills and a firm grasp of targeted cultures.\n\nMost transcreation is performed by in-market copywriters specializing in the practice. As is the case with translation, the work is performed by a person whose native language is that of the targeted audience. To produce effective transcreation, local language copywriters need to have an extensive knowledge of their market, excellent language skills, and the ability to creatively adapt messages for their target market, all the while possessing skills in advertising copywriting.\n\nTranscreation is used to market to different countries as well as different cultures within a country. Thus, the increasing Hispanic population in the U.S. provides many opportunities for same-country transcreation.\n\nTranslation and transcreation are related processes, but they are not identical. Translation in the Western world has a centuries-long history and has been marked in practice by two “ideal” approaches – metaphrase (word-for-word translation) – and paraphrase (i.e. “say in other words”). Due to idiom and the wide variety of local usages, word-for-word translation has long been considered inadequate and the best translations take into account the vocabulary, grammar, syntax, idiom and local usage of the target audience while remaining faithful to the text, and context, of the original document.\n\nTranscreation expands upon translation by focusing not so much on the literal text, but on discerning the emotional response by viewers in the source language and working to elicit the same response from viewers in the target market. It is about “taking a concept in one language, and completely recreating it in another.”\n\nAbsolute fidelity to the text is secondary to eliciting the desired emotional response by the target audience. Because differences between cultures are so numerous, eliciting the same emotional reaction may also necessitate changes in the context of the message.\n\nCompanies seeking to market a product across different languages and cultures have a spectrum of viable services from which to choose, ranging from mechanical translation on one end to the full resources of a multinational advertising agency on the other. Transcreation agencies, which add marketing and copywriting expertise to the translation process, lie at the center of this spectrum. The right choice depends on the nature of the message, how it will be used to reach the target language, the marketing objective of the advertiser and the financial resources of the company requiring the service.\n\nTo market a contraceptive product for females to two separate populations – U.S. English-speakers and U.S. Latinas, a pharmaceutical company created an advertising campaign that looked and “felt” the same, but appealed in different ways to their targeted audiences. The main thrust for the English version was about convenience and that for the Spanish version was about freedom of choice. These choices reflected the transcreators’ research on what drives women in each demographic to choose contraceptive products.\n\nThe computer chip-maker Intel wanted to bring its successful “Intel: Sponsors of Tomorrow” campaign to Brazilian markets, but research showed that “Sponsors of Tomorrow”, rendered in Portuguese, implies that Intel would not deliver on its promises immediately. The line was modified to read, in Portuguese, “Intel: In love with the future”, thus appealing to the presumed passionate nature of the target audience.\n\nIn the 1990s, the Swedish automobile manufacturer SAAB launched a new convertible model and, in the ensuing advertising campaign, wanted to establish the idea that the car allowed passengers to experience wide-open spaces. In the U.S., the ad’s headline read \"Saab vs. Oxygen bars\", because oxygen bars were popular in the U.S. at the time. In Sweden, where there were no oxygen bars, the same ad ran with the headline \"SAAB vs. klaustrofobi\". By substituting ‘oxygen bar’ with the Swedish word for claustrophobia, the transcreators changed the literal meaning of the message but appealed to the same emotions as did the U.S. ad.\n\nTranscreation was developed to avoid many of the pitfalls inherent in cross-cultural marketing. Those include:\n\n\nNot all cross-cultural marketing “disasters” are caused purely by poor research into the targeted market. To create “buzz”, some advertisers consciously “push the envelope” of what may be acceptable. In 2011, the Italian clothing maker Benetton launched an ad campaign supporting the Unhate foundation, which featured images of world leaders kissing. Many of the unlikely pairings raised ire, but the strongest reaction was from the Vatican, which objected to a version of the ad featuring Pope Benedict XVI kissing Mohamed Ahmed al-Tayeb, the Grand Sheik of the al-Azhar mosque in Cairo. Though in this instance, Benetton pulled the ad immediately, the company has garnered praise, condemnation, and perhaps most importantly, widespread attention for shockvertising.\n\nAmong the chief proponents of transcreation are local marketing managers, because dedication to this process frees them from having to accede to the dictates of copywriters who may be thousands of miles away and working in a completely different culture and language. (*)Transcreation allows local marketers to take the essence of a global advertising message and tailor it to their market. Thus, a global advertising campaign subjected to transcreation becomes more supple, while still adhering to an overall global strategy.\n\nThe tasks of a transcreator include establishing an emotional connection between the audience and the message, and maximizing cultural relevance. Many factors may differ across cultural and linguistic boundaries and must be considered, as these differences can significantly limit the effectiveness and impact of a cross-market campaign. These factors include cultural heritage, shared values, practices, and prevalent social cueing and reception thereof, including expression of emotions, gestures, body language, and facial expressions. These factors in turn influence consumers’ behavior and their reactions to advertising elements such as text, tone of voice, humor, settings, casting, and tonality.\n\nThere are also differences in how local consumers perceive a product. A product or service that is regarded as an everyday item in one country can be perceived as luxury in another, in which case, the advertising strategy needs to be adjusted accordingly. Products may also have varied development paces. For example, the development of mobile telecommunications markets has been quicker in Asia than in Western Europe.\n\nSome or all of these factors may be multiplied by the number of sub-cultures within the targeted country. The difficulty of honing the message may be exacerbated by the degree of variance among these subcultures. Transcreators must also take into account local advertising regulations, media environments, and commercial codes. The key figure in bringing attention to bear on all of these concerns is the local marketing manager, who is familiar with the global brand, and has intimate knowledge of the target audience.\n\nIn 1960, international billings accounted for 6% of the gross revenues of the top ten U.S. advertising agencies. By 1991, that share had climbed to 60%, and it has been rising ever since., in line with the “think global; act local” principle.\n\n"}
{"id": "6132129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6132129", "title": "Valley of the Muses", "text": "Valley of the Muses\n\nThe Valley of the Muses was the site of an ancient Greek sanctuary to the Muses and the \"Mouseia\" festivals held in their honor. It is an open-air historical site open permanently to the public. It is located at Thespies on the eastern slopes of Mount Helicon in Boeotia, Greece.\n\nThe recorded history of the valley began in the 6th century BC. Its greatest period started in the 3rd century BC with the establishment of the \"Mouseia\" festivals (Grk \"Μουσεῖα\"), organised every fifth year by the Thespians. Poets and musicians from all over Greece participated in various games. In the 2nd and 1st centuries BC, games in honor of the Roman emperor were added. From that time the emperors sponsored the festivals, which were then called \"Great Kaisareia\" (Grk \"Μεγάλα Καισάρεια\") because the emperor was honored over the Muses. Winners of the games dedicated their tripods to a sanctuary. Many statues depicting the Muses, famous poets, and musicians stood in the open-air space of the Valley. With the rise of monotheism, the festivals and the valley were abandoned.\n\nIn 1882, Stamatakis made the first test trench in the little church of Ayia Triada and noted the rectangular foundation of a small temple of the Muses. He also indicated the remains of the theatre on the mountain slope. The French Archaeological School under Jamot excavated systematically in 1888, 1889 and 1890, and discovered all the antiquities (G. Roux, Le Val des Muses et les Musees chez les auteurs anciens, in Bulletin de Correspondance Hellenique, 1954, 1, pp. 22–48).\n\nThe Sanctuary consisted of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4868366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4868366", "title": "Wex", "text": "Wex\n\nWex is a collaboratively built, freely available legal dictionary and encyclopedia.\n\nWex is an initiative to construct a collaboratively-created, public-access law dictionary and encyclopedia. It is sponsored and hosted by the Legal Information Institute (\"LII\") at the Cornell Law School. Much of the material that appears in Wex was originally developed for the LII's \"Law about...\" pages, to which Wex is the successor.\n\nWex accepts contributions from qualified experts. It screens editors before allowing them to contribute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8290803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8290803", "title": "Ángel María Garibay K.", "text": "Ángel María Garibay K.\n\nFray Ángel María Garibay Kintana (18 June 1892– 19 October 1967) was a Mexican Roman Catholic priest, philologist, linguist, historian, and scholar of pre-Columbian Mesoamerican cultures, specifically of the Nahua peoples of the central Mexican highlands. He is particularly noted for his studies and translations of conquest-era primary source documents written in Classical Nahuatl, the \"lingua franca\" of Postclassic central Mexico and the then-dominant Aztec empire. Alongside his former student Miguel León-Portilla, Garibay ranks as one of the pre-eminent Mexican authorities on the Nahuatl language and its literary heritage, and as one who has made a significant contribution towards the promotion and preservation of the indigenous cultures and languages of Mexico.\n\nGaribay and León-Portilla published texts and scholarly analysis for the study of classical Nahuatl literature, founded the journal \n\"\", and created the \"Seminario de Cultura Náhuatl\". In the seminar, they taught fundamentals of literature and linguistics to Nahuas, who have gone on to created a modern Nahuatl literature. In recent years, the relationship between the development of Nahuatl literature as a field and the ideology of \"indigenismo\" and \"mestizaje\" has been critically examined.\n\n\n"}
