{"id": "2861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2861", "title": "Advertising", "text": "Advertising\n\nAdvertising is a marketing communication that employs an openly sponsored, non-personal message to promote or sell a product, service or idea. Sponsors of advertising are typically businesses wishing to promote their products or services. Advertising is differentiated from public relations in that an advertiser pays for and has control over the message. It differs from personal selling in that the message is non-personal, i.e., not directed to a particular individual.\nAdvertising is communicated through various mass media, including traditional media such as newspapers, magazines, television, radio, outdoor advertising or direct mail; and new media such as search results, blogs, social media, websites or text messages. The actual presentation of the message in a medium is referred to as an advertisement, or \"ad\" or advert for short.\n\nCommercial ads often seek to generate increased consumption of their products or services through \"branding\", which associates a product name or image with certain qualities in the minds of consumers. On the other hand, ads that intend to elicit an immediate sale are known as direct-response advertising. Non-commercial entities that advertise more than consumer products or services include political parties, interest groups, religious organizations and governmental agencies. Non-profit organizations may use free modes of persuasion, such as a public service announcement. Advertising may also help to reassure employees or shareholders that a company is viable or successful.\n\nModern advertising originated with the techniques introduced with tobacco advertising in the 1920s, most significantly with the campaigns of Edward Bernays, considered the founder of modern, \"Madison Avenue\" advertising.\n\nWorldwide spending on advertising in 2015 amounted to an estimated . Advertising's projected distribution for 2017 was 40.4% on TV, 33.3% on digital, 9% on newspapers, 6.9% on magazines, 5.8% on outdoor and 4.3% on radio. Internationally, the largest (\"big four\") advertising-agency groups are Interpublic, Omnicom, Publicis, and WPP.\n\nIn Latin, \"advertere\" means \"to turn towards\".\n\nEgyptians used papyrus to make sales messages and wall posters. Commercial messages and political campaign displays have been found in the ruins of Pompeii and ancient Arabia. Lost and found advertising on papyrus was common in ancient Greece and ancient Rome. Wall or rock painting for commercial advertising is another manifestation of an ancient advertising form, which is present to this day in many parts of Asia, Africa, and South America. The tradition of wall painting can be traced back to Indian rock art paintings that date back to 4000 BC.\n\nIn ancient China, the earliest advertising known was oral, as recorded in the Classic of Poetry (11th to 7th centuries BC) of bamboo flutes played to sell confectionery. Advertisement usually takes in the form of calligraphic signboards and inked papers. A copper printing plate dated back to the Song dynasty used to print posters in the form of a square sheet of paper with a rabbit logo with \"Jinan Liu's Fine Needle Shop\" and \"We buy high-quality steel rods and make fine-quality needles, to be ready for use at home in no time\" written above and below is considered the world's earliest identified printed advertising medium.\n\nIn Europe, as the towns and cities of the Middle Ages began to grow, and the general population was unable to read, instead of signs that read \"cobbler\", \"miller\", \"tailor\", or \"blacksmith\", images associated with their trade would be used such as a boot, a suit, a hat, a clock, a diamond, a horseshoe, a candle or even a bag of flour. Fruits and vegetables were sold in the city square from the backs of carts and wagons and their proprietors used street callers (town criers) to announce their whereabouts. The first compilation of such advertisements was gathered in \"Les Crieries de Paris\", a thirteenth-century poem by Guillaume de la Villeneuve.\n\nIn the 18th century advertisements started to appear in weekly newspapers in England. These early print advertisements were used mainly to promote books and newspapers, which became increasingly affordable with advances in the printing press; and medicines, which were increasingly sought after. However, false advertising and so-called \"quack\" advertisements became a problem, which ushered in the regulation of advertising content.\n\nThomas J. Barratt of London has been called \"the father of modern advertising\". Working for the Pears Soap company, Barratt created an effective advertising campaign for the company products, which involved the use of targeted slogans, images and phrases. One of his slogans, \"Good morning. Have you used Pears' soap?\" was famous in its day and into the 20th century.\n\nBarratt introduced many of the crucial ideas that lie behind successful advertising and these were widely circulated in his day. He constantly stressed the importance of a strong and exclusive brand image for Pears and of emphasizing the product's availability through saturation campaigns. He also understood the importance of constantly reevaluating the market for changing tastes and mores, stating in 1907 that \"tastes change, fashions change, and the advertiser has to change with them. An idea that was effective a generation ago would fall flat, stale, and unprofitable if presented to the public today. Not that the idea of today is always better than the older idea, but it is different – it hits the present taste.\"\n\nAs the economy expanded across the world during the 19th century, advertising grew alongside. In the United States, the success of this advertising format eventually led to the growth of mail-order advertising.\n\nIn June 1836, French newspaper \"La Presse\" was the first to include paid advertising in its pages, allowing it to lower its price, extend its readership and increase its profitability and the formula was soon copied by all titles. Around 1840, Volney B. Palmer established the roots of the modern day advertising agency in Philadelphia. In 1842 Palmer bought large amounts of space in various newspapers at a discounted rate then resold the space at higher rates to advertisers. The actual ad – the copy, layout, and artwork – was still prepared by the company wishing to advertise; in effect, Palmer was a space broker. The situation changed when the first full-service advertising agency of N.W. Ayer & Son was founded in 1869 in Philadelphia. Ayer & Son offered to plan, create, and execute complete advertising campaigns for its customers. By 1900 the advertising agency had become the focal point of creative planning, and advertising was firmly established as a profession.\n\nAdvertising increased dramatically in the United States as industrialization expanded the supply of manufactured products. In 1919 it was 2.5 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in the US, and it averaged 2.2 percent of GDP between then and at least 2007, though it may have declined dramatically since the Great Recession.\n\nIndustry could not benefit from its increased productivity without a substantial increase in consumer spending. This contributed to the development of mass marketing designed to influence the population's economic behavior on a larger scale. In the 1910s and 1920s, advertisers in the U.S. adopted the doctrine that human instincts could be targeted and harnessed – \"sublimated\" into the desire to purchase commodities. Edward Bernays, a nephew of Sigmund Freud, became associated with the method and is sometimes called the founder of modern advertising and public relations. Bernays claimed that:\"[The] general principle, that men are very largely actuated by motives which they conceal from themselves, is as true of mass as of individual psychology. It is evident that the successful propagandist must understand the true motives and not be content to accept the reasons which men give for what they do.\"In other words, selling products by appealing to the rational minds of customers (the main method used prior to Bernays) was much less effective than selling products based on the unconscious desires that Bernays felt were the true motivators of human action. \"Sex sells\" became a controversial issue, with techniques for titillating and enlarging the audience posing a challenge to conventional morality.\n\nIn the 1920s, under Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover, the American government promoted advertising. Hoover himself delivered an address to the Associated Advertising Clubs of the World in 1925 called 'Advertising Is a Vital Force in Our National Life.\" In October 1929, the head of the U.S. Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, Julius Klein, stated \"Advertising is the key to world prosperity.\" This was part of the \"unparalleled\" collaboration between business and government in the 1920s, according to a 1933 European economic journal.\n\nThe tobacco companies became major advertisers in order to sell packaged cigarettes. The tobacco companies pioneered the new advertising techniques when they hired Bernays to create positive associations with tobacco smoking.\n\nAdvertising was also used as a vehicle for cultural assimilation, encouraging workers to exchange their traditional habits and community structure in favor of a shared \"modern\" lifestyle. An important tool for influencing immigrant workers was the American Association of Foreign Language Newspapers (AAFLN). The AAFLN was primarily an advertising agency but also gained heavily centralized control over much of the immigrant press.\nAt the turn of the 20th century, advertising was one of the few career choices for women. Since women were responsible for most household purchasing done, advertisers and agencies recognized the value of women's insight during the creative process. In fact, the first American advertising to use a sexual sell was created by a woman – for a soap product. Although tame by today's standards, the advertisement featured a couple with the message \"A skin you love to touch\".\n\nIn the 1920s psychologists Walter D. Scott and John B. Watson contributed applied psychological theory to the field of advertising. Scott said, \"Man has been called the reasoning animal but he could with greater truthfulness be called the creature of suggestion. He is reasonable, but he is to a greater extent suggestible\". He demonstrated this through his advertising technique of a direct command to the consumer.\n\nIn the early 1920s, the first radio stations were established by radio equipment manufacturers, followed by non-profit organizations such as schools, clubs and civic groups who also set up their own stations. Retailer and consumer goods manufacturers quickly recognised radio's potential to reach consumers in their home and soon adopted advertising techniques that would allow their messages to stand out; slogans, mascots, and jingles began to appear on radio in the 1920s and early television in the 1930s.\n\nThe rise of mass media communications allowed manufacturers of branded goods to bypass retailers by advertising directly to consumers. This was a major paradigm shift which forced manufacturers to focus on the brand and stimulated the need for superior insights into consumer purchasing, consumption and usage behaviour; their needs, wants and aspirations. The earliest radio drama series were sponsored by soap manufacturers and the genre became known as a \"soap opera.\" Before long, radio station owners realized they could increase advertising revenue by selling 'air-time' in small time allocations which could be sold to multiple businesses. By the 1930s, these \"advertising spots,\" as the packets of time became known, were being sold by the station's geographical sales representatives, ushering in an era of national radio advertising.\n\nBy the 1940s, manufacturers began to recognize the way in which consumers were developing personal relationships with their brands in a social/psychological/anthropological sense. Advertisers began to use motivational research and consumer research to gather insights into consumer purchasing. Strong branded campaigns for Chrysler and Exxon/Esso, using insights drawn research methods from psychology and cultural anthropology, led to some of most enduring campaigns of the 20th-century.\n\nIn the early 1950s, the DuMont Television Network began the modern practice of selling advertisement time to multiple sponsors. Previously, DuMont had trouble finding sponsors for many of their programs and compensated by selling smaller blocks of advertising time to several businesses. This eventually became the standard for the commercial television industry in the United States. However, it was still a common practice to have single sponsor shows, such as The United States Steel Hour. In some instances the sponsors exercised great control over the content of the show – up to and including having one's advertising agency actually writing the show. The single sponsor model is much less prevalent now, a notable exception being the Hallmark Hall of Fame.\n\nThe late 1980s and early 1990s saw the introduction of cable television and particularly MTV. Pioneering the concept of the music video, MTV ushered in a new type of advertising: the consumer tunes in \"for\" the advertising message, rather than it being a by-product or afterthought. As cable and satellite television became increasingly prevalent, specialty channels emerged, including channels entirely devoted to advertising, such as QVC, Home Shopping Network, and ShopTV Canada.\n\nWith the advent of the ad server, online advertising grew, contributing to the \"dot-com\" boom of the 1990s. Entire corporations operated solely on advertising revenue, offering everything from coupons to free Internet access. At the turn of the 21st century, some websites, including the search engine Google, changed online advertising by personalizing ads based on web browsing behavior. This has led to other similar efforts and an increase in interactive advertising.\n\nThe share of advertising spending relative to GDP has changed little across large changes in media since 1925. In 1925, the main advertising media in America were newspapers, magazines, signs on streetcars, and outdoor posters. Advertising spending as a share of GDP was about 2.9 percent. By 1998, television and radio had become major advertising media; by 2017, the balance between broadcast and online advertising had shifted, with online spending exceeding broadcast. Nonetheless, advertising spending as a share of GDP was slightly lower – about 2.4 percent.\n\nGuerrilla marketing involves unusual approaches such as staged encounters in public places, giveaways of products such as cars that are covered with brand messages, and interactive advertising where the viewer can respond to become part of the advertising message. This type of advertising is unpredictable, which causes consumers to buy the product or idea. This reflects an increasing trend of interactive and \"embedded\" ads, such as via product placement, having consumers vote through text messages, and various campaigns utilizing social network services such as Facebook or Twitter.\n\nThe advertising business model has also been adapted in recent years. In media for equity, advertising is not sold, but provided to start-up companies in return for equity. If the company grows and is sold, the media companies receive cash for their shares.\n\nDomain name registrants (usually those who register and renew domains as an investment) sometimes \"park\" their domains and allow advertising companies to place ads on their sites in return for per-click payments. These ads are typically driven by pay per click search engines like Google or Yahoo, but ads can sometimes be placed directly on targeted domain names through a domain lease or by making contact with the registrant of a domain name that describes a product. Domain name registrants are generally easy to identify through WHOIS records that are publicly available at registrar websites.\n\nAdvertising may be categorized in a variety of ways, including by style, target audience, geographic scope, medium, or purpose. For example, in print advertising, classification by style can include display advertising (ads with design elements sold by size) vs. classified advertising (ads without design elements sold by the word or line). Advertising may be local, national or global. An ad campaign may be directed toward consumers or to businesses. The purpose of an ad may be to raise awareness (brand advertising), or to elicit an immediate sale (direct response advertising). The term above the line is used for advertising involving mass media; other types of advertising and promotion are referred to as below the line.\n\nVirtually any medium can be used for advertising. Commercial advertising media can include wall paintings, billboards, street furniture components, printed flyers and rack cards, radio, cinema and television adverts, web banners, mobile telephone screens, shopping carts, web popups, skywriting, bus stop benches, human billboards and forehead advertising, magazines, newspapers, town criers, sides of buses, banners attached to or sides of airplanes (\"logojets\"), in-flight advertisements on seatback tray tables or overhead storage bins, taxicab doors, roof mounts and passenger screens, musical stage shows, subway platforms and trains, elastic bands on disposable diapers, doors of bathroom stalls, stickers on apples in supermarkets, shopping cart handles (grabertising), the opening section of streaming audio and video, posters, and the backs of event tickets and supermarket receipts. Any situation in which an \"identified\" sponsor pays to deliver their message through a medium is advertising.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIncreasingly, other media are overtaking many of the \"traditional\" media such as television, radio and newspaper because of a shift toward the usage of the Internet for news and music as well as devices like digital video recorders (DVRs) such as TiVo.\n\nOnline advertising began with unsolicited bulk e-mail advertising known as \"e-mail spam\". Spam has been a problem for e-mail users since 1978. As new online communication channels became available, advertising followed. The first banner ad appeared on the World Wide Web in 1994. Prices of Web-based advertising space are dependent on the \"relevance\" of the surrounding web content and the traffic that the website receives.\n\nIn online display advertising, display ads generate awareness quickly. Unlike search, which requires someone to be aware of a need, display advertising can drive awareness of something new and without previous knowledge. Display works well for direct response. Display is not only used for generating awareness, it's used for direct response campaigns that link to a landing page with a clear 'call to action'.\n\nAs the mobile phone became a new mass medium in 1998 when the first paid downloadable content appeared on mobile phones in Finland, mobile advertising followed, also first launched in Finland in 2000. By 2007 the value of mobile advertising had reached $2 billion and providers such as Admob delivered billions of mobile ads.\n\nMore advanced mobile ads include banner ads, coupons, Multimedia Messaging Service picture and video messages, advergames and various engagement marketing campaigns. A particular feature driving mobile ads is the 2D barcode, which replaces the need to do any typing of web addresses, and uses the camera feature of modern phones to gain immediate access to web content. 83 percent of Japanese mobile phone users already are active users of 2D barcodes.\n\nSome companies have proposed placing messages or corporate logos on the side of booster rockets and the International Space Station.\n\nUnpaid advertising (also called \"publicity advertising\"), can include personal recommendations (\"bring a friend\", \"sell it\"), spreading buzz, or achieving the feat of equating a brand with a common noun (in the United States, \"Xerox\" = \"photocopier\", \"Kleenex\" = tissue, \"Vaseline\" = petroleum jelly, \"Hoover\" = vacuum cleaner, and \"Band-Aid\" = adhesive bandage). However, some companies oppose the use of their brand name to label an object. Equating a brand with a common noun also risks turning that brand into a generic trademark – turning it into a generic term which means that its legal protection as a trademark is lost. \n\nFrom time to time, The CW Television Network airs short programming breaks called \"Content Wraps\", to advertise one company's product during an entire commercial break. The CW pioneered \"content wraps\" and some products featured were Herbal Essences, Crest, Guitar Hero II, CoverGirl, and recently Toyota.\n\nA new promotion concept has appeared, \"ARvertising\", advertising on augmented reality technology.\n\nControversy exists on the effectiveness of subliminal advertising (see mind control), and the pervasiveness of mass messages (propaganda).\n\nWith the Internet came many new advertising opportunities. Pop-up, Flash, banner, pop-under, advergaming, and email advertisements (all of which are often unwanted or spam in the case of email) are now commonplace. Particularly since the rise of \"entertaining\" advertising, some people may like an advertisement enough to wish to watch it later or show a friend. In general, the advertising community has not yet made this easy, although some have used the Internet to widely distribute their ads to anyone willing to see or hear them. In the last three quarters of 2009, mobile and Internet advertising grew by 18% and 9% respectively, while older media advertising saw declines: −10.1% (TV), −11.7% (radio), −14.8% (magazines) and −18.7% (newspapers). Between 2008 and 2014, U.S. newspapers lost more than half their print advertising revenue.\n\nAnother significant trend regarding future of advertising is the growing importance of the niche market using niche or targeted ads. Also brought about by the Internet and the theory of the long tail, advertisers will have an increasing ability to reach specific audiences. In the past, the most efficient way to deliver a message was to blanket the largest mass market audience possible. However, usage tracking, customer profiles and the growing popularity of niche content brought about by everything from blogs to social networking sites, provide advertisers with audiences that are smaller but much better defined, leading to ads that are more relevant to viewers and more effective for companies' marketing products. Among others, Comcast Spotlight is one such advertiser employing this method in their video on demand menus. These advertisements are targeted to a specific group and can be viewed by anyone wishing to find out more about a particular business or practice, from their home. This causes the viewer to become proactive and actually choose what advertisements they want to view.\nNiche marketing could also be helped by bringing the issue of colour into advertisements. Different colours play major roles when it comes to marketing strategies, for example, seeing the blue can promote a sense of calmness and gives a sense of security which is why many social networks such as Facebook use blue in their logos. \nGoogle AdSense is an example of niche marketing. Google calculates the primary purpose of a website and adjusts ads accordingly; it uses keywords on the page (or even in emails) to find the general ideas of topics disused and places ads that will most likely be clicked on by viewers of the email account or website visitors.\n\nThe concept of crowdsourcing has given way to the trend of user-generated advertisements. User-generated ads are created by people, as opposed to an advertising agency or the company themselves, often resulting from brand sponsored advertising competitions. For the 2007 Super Bowl, the Frito-Lays division of PepsiCo held the \"Crash the Super Bowl\" contest, allowing people to create their own Doritos commercials. Chevrolet held a similar competition for their Tahoe line of SUVs. Due to the success of the Doritos user-generated ads in the 2007 Super Bowl, Frito-Lays relaunched the competition for the 2009 and 2010 Super Bowl. The resulting ads were among the most-watched and most-liked Super Bowl ads. In fact, the winning ad that aired in the 2009 Super Bowl was ranked by the USA Today Super Bowl Ad Meter as the top ad for the year while the winning ads that aired in the 2010 Super Bowl were found by Nielsen's BuzzMetrics to be the \"most buzzed-about\". Another example of companies using crowdsourcing successfully is the beverage company Jones Soda that encourages consumers to participate in the label design themselves.\n\nThis trend has given rise to several online platforms that host user-generated advertising competitions on behalf of a company. Founded in 2007, Zooppa has launched ad competitions for brands such as Google, Nike, Hershey's, General Mills, Microsoft, NBC Universal, Zinio, and Mini Cooper. Crowdsourced remains controversial, as the long-term impact on the advertising industry is still unclear.\n\nAdvertising has gone through five major stages of development: domestic, export, international, multi-national, and global. For global advertisers, there are four, potentially competing, business objectives that must be balanced when developing worldwide advertising: building a brand while speaking with one voice, developing economies of scale in the creative process, maximising local effectiveness of ads, and increasing the company's speed of implementation. Born from the evolutionary stages of global marketing are the three primary and fundamentally different approaches to the development of global advertising executions: exporting executions, producing local executions, and importing ideas that travel.\n\nAdvertising research is key to determining the success of an ad in any country or region. The ability to identify which elements and/or moments of an ad contribute to its success is how economies of scale are maximized. Once one knows what works in an ad, that idea or ideas can be imported by any other market. Market research measures, such as , and provide insight into what is working in an ad in any country or region because the measures are based on the visual, not verbal, elements of the ad.\n\nForeign governments, particularly those that own marketable commercial products or services, often promote their interests and positions through the advertising of those goods because the target audience is not only largely unaware of the forum as a vehicle for foreign messaging but also willing to receive the message while in a mental state of absorbing information from advertisements during television commercial breaks, while reading a periodical, or while passing by billboards in public spaces. A prime example of this messaging technique is advertising campaigns to promote international travel. While advertising foreign destinations and services may stem from the typical goal of increasing revenue by drawing more tourism, some travel campaigns carry the additional or alternative intended purpose of promoting good sentiments or improving existing ones among the target audience towards a given nation or region. It is common for advertising promoting foreign countries to be produced and distributed by the tourism ministries of those countries, so these ads often carry political statements and/or depictions of the foreign government's desired international public perception. Additionally, a wide range of foreign airlines and travel-related services which advertise separately from the destinations, themselves, are owned by their respective governments; examples include, though are not limited to, the Emirates airline (Dubai), Singapore Airlines (Singapore), Qatar Airways (Qatar), China Airlines (Taiwan/Republic of China), and Air China (People's Republic of China). By depicting their destinations, airlines, and other services in a favorable and pleasant light, countries market themselves to populations abroad in a manner that could mitigate prior public impressions.\n\nIn the realm of advertising agencies, continued industry diversification has seen observers note that \"big global clients don't need big global agencies any more\". This is reflected by the growth of non-traditional agencies in various global markets, such as Canadian business TAXI and SMART in Australia and has been referred to as \"a revolution in the ad world\".\n\nThe ability to record shows on digital video recorders (such as TiVo) allow watchers to record the programs for later viewing, enabling them to fast forward through commercials. Additionally, as more seasons of pre-recorded box sets are offered for sale of television programs; fewer people watch the shows on TV. However, the fact that these sets are sold, means the company will receive additional profits from these sets.\n\nTo counter this effect, a variety of strategies have been employed. Many advertisers have opted for product placement on TV shows like Survivor. Other strategies include integrating advertising with internet-connected EPGs, advertising on companion devices (like smartphones and tablets) during the show, and creating TV apps. Additionally, some like brands have opted for social television sponsorship.\n\nThe emerging technology of drone displays has recently been used for advertising purposes.\n\nIn recent years there have been several media literacy initiatives, and more specifically concerning advertising, that seek to empower citizens in the face of media advertising campaigns.\n\nAdvertising education has become popular with bachelor, master and doctorate degrees becoming available in the emphasis. A surge in advertising interest is typically attributed to the strong relationship advertising plays in cultural and technological changes, such as the advance of online social networking. A unique model for teaching advertising is the student-run advertising agency, where advertising students create campaigns for real companies. Organizations such as the American Advertising Federation establish companies with students to create these campaigns.\n\nAdvertising is at the front of delivering the proper message to customers and prospective customers. The purpose of advertising is to inform the consumers about their product and convince customers that a company's services or products are the best, enhance the image of the company, point out and create a need for products or services, demonstrate new uses for established products, announce new products and programs, reinforce the salespeople's individual messages, draw customers to the business, and to hold existing customers.\n\nSales promotions are another way to advertise. Sales promotions are double purposed because they are used to gather information about what type of customers one draws in and where they are, and to jump start sales. Sales promotions include things like contests and games, sweepstakes, product giveaways, samples coupons, loyalty programs, and discounts. The ultimate goal of sales promotions is to stimulate potential customers to action.\n\nWhile advertising can be seen as necessary for economic growth, it is not without social costs. Unsolicited commercial e-mail and other forms of spam have become so prevalent as to have become a major nuisance to users of these services, as well as being a financial burden on internet service providers. Advertising is increasingly invading public spaces, such as schools, which some critics argue is a form of child exploitation. This increasing difficulty in limiting exposure to specific audiences can result in negative backlash for advertisers. In tandem with these criticisms, the advertising industry has seen low approval rates in surveys and negative cultural portrayals.\n\nOne of the most controversial criticisms of advertisement in the present day is that of the predominance of advertising of foods high in sugar, fat, and salt specifically to children. Critics claim that food advertisements targeting children are exploitive and are not sufficiently balanced with proper nutritional education to help children understand the consequences of their food choices. Additionally, children may not understand that they are being sold something, and are therefore more impressionable. Michelle Obama has criticized large food companies for advertising unhealthy foods largely towards children and has requested that food companies either limit their advertising to children or advertise foods that are more in line with dietary guidelines. The other criticisms include the change that are brought by those advertisements on the society and also the deceiving ads that are aired and published by the corporations. Cosmetic and health industry are the ones which exploited the highest and created reasons of concern.\n\nThere have been increasing efforts to protect the public interest by regulating the content and the influence of advertising. Some examples include restrictions for advertising alcohol, tobacco or gambling imposed in many countries, as well as the bans around advertising to children, which exist in parts of Europe. Advertising regulation focuses heavily on the veracity of the claims and as such, there are often tighter restrictions placed around advertisements for food and healthcare products.\n\nThe advertising industries within some countries rely less on laws and more on systems of self-regulation. Advertisers and the media agree on a code of advertising standards that they attempt to uphold. The general aim of such codes is to ensure that any advertising is 'legal, decent, honest and truthful'. Some self-regulatory organizations are funded by the industry, but remain independent, with the intent of upholding the standards or codes like the Advertising Standards Authority in the UK.\n\nIn the UK, most forms of outdoor advertising such as the display of billboards is regulated by the UK Town and County Planning system. Currently, the display of an advertisement without consent from the Planning Authority is a criminal offense liable to a fine of £2,500 per offense. In the US, many communities believe that many forms of outdoor advertising blight the public realm. As long ago as the 1960s in the US there were attempts to ban billboard advertising in the open countryside. Cities such as São Paulo have introduced an outright ban with London also having specific legislation to control unlawful displays.\n\nSome governments restrict the languages that can be used in advertisements, but advertisers may employ tricks to try avoiding them. In France for instance, advertisers sometimes print English words in bold and French translations in fine print to deal with Article 120 of the 1994 Toubon Law limiting the use of English.\n\nThe advertising of pricing information is another topic of concern for governments. In the United States for instance, it is common for businesses to only mention the existence and amount of applicable taxes at a later stage of a transaction. In Canada and New Zealand, taxes can be listed as separate items, as long as they are quoted up-front. In most other countries, the advertised price must include all applicable taxes, enabling customers to easily know how much it will cost them.\n\nVarious competing models of hierarchies of effects attempt to provide a theoretical underpinning to advertising practice.\n\nThe marketing mix was proposed by professor E. Jerome McCarthy in the 1960s. It consists of four basic elements called the \"four Ps\". Product is the first P representing the actual product. Price represents the process of determining the value of a product. Place represents the variables of getting the product to the consumer such as distribution channels, market coverage and movement organization. The last P stands for Promotion which is the process of reaching the target market and convincing them to buy the product.\n\nIn the 1990s, the concept of four Cs was introduced as a more customer-driven replacement of four P's. There are two theories based on four Cs: Lauterborn's four Cs (\"consumer\", \"cost\", \"communication\", \"convenience\")\n\nAdvertising research is a specialized form of research that works to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of advertising. It entails numerous forms of research which employ different methodologies. Advertising research includes pre-testing (also known as copy testing) and post-testing of ads and/or campaigns.\n\nPre-testing includes a wide range of qualitative and quantitative techniques, including: focus groups, in-depth target audience interviews (one-on-one interviews), small-scale quantitative studies and physiological measurement. The goal of these investigations is to better understand how different groups respond to various messages and visual prompts, thereby providing an assessment of how well the advertisement meets its communications goals.\n\nPost-testing employs many of the same techniques as pre-testing, usually with a focus on understanding the change in awareness or attitude attributable to the advertisement. With the emergence of digital advertising technologies, many firms have begun to continuously post-test ads using real-time data. This may take the form of A/B split-testing or multivariate testing.\n\nContinuous ad tracking and the Communicus System are competing examples of post-testing advertising research types.\n\nMeanings between consumers and marketers depict signs and symbols that are encoded in everyday objects. Semiotics is the study of signs and how they are interpreted. Advertising has many hidden signs and meanings within brand names, logos, package designs, print advertisements, and television advertisements. Semiotics aims to study and interpret the message being conveyed in (for example) advertisements. Logos and advertisements can be interpreted at two levels – known as the surface level and the underlying level. The surface level uses signs creatively to create an image or personality for a product. These signs can be images, words, fonts, colors, or slogans. The underlying level is made up of hidden meanings. The combination of images, words, colors, and slogans must be interpreted by the audience or consumer. The \"key to advertising analysis\" is the signifier and the signified. The signifier is the object and the signified is the mental concept. A product has a signifier and a signified. The signifier is the color, brand name, logo design, and technology. The signified has two meanings known as denotative and connotative. The denotative meaning is the meaning of the product. A television's denotative meaning might be that it is high definition. The connotative meaning is the product's deep and hidden meaning. A connotative meaning of a television would be that it is top-of-the-line.\n\nApple's commercials used a black silhouette of a person that was the age of Apple's target market. They placed the silhouette in front of a blue screen so that the picture behind the silhouette could be constantly changing. However, the one thing that stays the same in these ads is that there is music in the background and the silhouette is listening to that music on a white iPod through white headphones. Through advertising, the white color on a set of earphones now signifies that the music device is an iPod. The white color signifies almost all of Apple's products.\n\nThe semiotics of gender plays a key influence on the way in which signs are interpreted. When considering gender roles in advertising, individuals are influenced by three categories. Certain characteristics of stimuli may enhance or decrease the elaboration of the message (if the product is perceived as feminine or masculine). Second, the characteristics of individuals can affect attention and elaboration of the message (traditional or non-traditional gender role orientation). Lastly, situational factors may be important to influence the elaboration of the message.\n\nThere are two types of marketing communication claims-objective and subjective. Objective claims stem from the extent to which the claim associates the brand with a tangible product or service feature. For instance, a camera may have auto-focus features. Subjective claims convey emotional, subjective, impressions of intangible aspects of a product or service. They are non-physical features of a product or service that cannot be directly perceived, as they have no physical reality. For instance the brochure has a beautiful design. Males tend to respond better to objective marketing-communications claims while females tend to respond better to subjective marketing communications claims.\n\nVoiceovers are commonly used in advertising. Most voiceovers are done by men, with figures of up to 94% having been reported. There have been more female voiceovers in recent years, but mainly for food, household products, and feminine-care products.\n\nAccording to a 1977 study by David Statt, females process information comprehensively, while males process information through heuristic devices such as procedures, methods or strategies for solving problems, which could have an effect on how they interpret advertising. According to this study, men prefer to have available and apparent cues to interpret the message, whereas females engage in more creative, associative, imagery-laced interpretation. Later research by a Danish team found that advertising attempts to persuade men to improve their appearance or performance, whereas its approach to women aims at transformation toward an impossible ideal of female presentation. In Paul Suggett's article \"The Objectification of Women in Advertising\" he discusses the negative impact that these women in advertisements, who are too perfect to be real, have on women, as well as men, in real life. Advertising's manipulation of women's aspiration to these ideal types as portrayed in film, in erotic art, in advertising, on stage, within music videos, and through other media exposures requires at least a conditioned rejection of female reality, and thereby takes on a highly ideological cast. Studies show that these expectations of women and young girls negatively impact their views about their bodies and appearances. These advertisements are directed towards men. Not everyone agrees: one critic viewed this monologic, gender-specific interpretation of advertising as excessively skewed and politicized. There are some companies, however, like Dove and Aerie that are creating commercials to portray more natural women, with less post production manipulation, so more women and young girls are able to relate to them. These commercials give more natural beauty standards.\n\nMore recent research by Martin (2003) reveals that males and females differ in how they react to advertising depending on their mood at the time of exposure to the ads, and on the affective tone of the advertising. When feeling sad, males prefer happy ads to boost their mood. In contrast, females prefer happy ads when they are feeling happy. The television programs in which ads are embedded influence a viewer's mood state. Susan Wojcicki, author of the article \"Ads that Empower Women don’t just Break Stereotypes—They’re also Effective\" discusses how advertising to women has changed since the first Barbie commercial where a little girl tells the doll that, she wants to be just like her. Little girls grow up watching advertisements of scantily clad women advertising things from trucks to burgers, and Wojcicki states that this shows girls that they are either arm candy or eye candy.\n\n\nNotes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19028059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19028059", "title": "American Cat Fanciers Association", "text": "American Cat Fanciers Association\n\nThe American Cat Fanciers Association (ACFA) is an American non-profit organization formed with the intent of allowing greater flexibility in the development of pedigreed cats. The ACFA is a cat registry for purebred, pedigreed cats, experimental breeds of cats, and household pet cats.\n\nACFA sanctioned cat shows include classes for championship adult cats, championship altered cats, registered kittens from the age of four to eight months, and household pet cats. Wins from licensed shows can be used to claim titles including championships and multiple championships, grand championships and multiple grand championships, and the household pet titles of Royal Household Pet and Supreme Household Pet.\n\nACFA is directly affiliated with the Cat Aficionado Association of China, who use the ACFA breed standards.\n\nACFA was founded in 1955 by a group of cat fanciers desiring to show their cats in a democratic association, that is, one where individual members had voting rights on election of officers, acceptance of new show rules, by-laws and breed standards and acceptance of new breeds of cats.\n\n"}
{"id": "1593793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1593793", "title": "Anna Trapnell", "text": "Anna Trapnell\n\nAnna Trapnell (sometimes Trapnel) was an alleged prophetess active in England in the 1650s, associated with the Fifth Monarchists whom she joined in 1652. In January 1654, Trapnell fell into a trance for eleven or twelve days, during which time she sang, prayed and prophesied before a large crowd of people. Her trance and the news of it propelled her to fame around England. She was sharply critical of the Protectorate government of Oliver Cromwell, she preached equality of the sexes, and officially, she was considered mad. In April 1654, she was arrested, imprisoned at Bridewell, and tried. Anticipating that she would be considered a taciturn witch she overwhelmed the court with verbosity, and was subsequently released in July of that same year. She continued her prophesies upon her release, and accounts of her activities were recorded in \"Strange and Wonderful Newes from White-Hall\", \"The Cry of a Stone\", \"A Legacy for Saints\", and \"Anna Trapnel's Report and Plea\", all published in 1654.\n\nAnna Trapnell was born sometime during the 1630s in Stepney, England, in the Parish of St. Dunstan's. Her father was a shipwright, and brought his family up in a poor sailor's town. Despite not having been baptized, Trapnell had religious zeal at a very early age, for she said: \"When a child, the Lord awed my spirit, and so for the least trespass, my heart was smitten.\" She claims that her first recorded vision occurred after the death of her mother in 1647.\n\nAnna Trapnell travelled to Cornwall on the whim of a dream. She was arrested on charges of disturbing the peace, and brought before the magistrates of the county. She had a very detailed account of the proceedings in her biography entitled, \"A Narrative of Her Journey Into Cornwall\". Judges asked her questions about the reasons of her travels and her purpose for preaching. She responded with questions, parables, and quotations from the Bible. The intense questioning and the ambiguity of her responses is very reminiscent of the trial in Jesus before the Crucifixion. Whether this report of her trial is accurate, however, is debatable, for the only of account of Anna Trapnell's trial is her own.\n\nAnna Trapnell was a revolutionary woman writer, for she gained notoriety during a time when women were dismissed as incompetent. Her motivations are not known, and the accuracy of her stories is questionable considering they were all first-person accounts. However, the influence of her preaching and the size of her audience are impressive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7485079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7485079", "title": "Anyin language", "text": "Anyin language\n\nThe Anyin language is spoken principally in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana. It is an Akan member of the Kwa branch of the Niger–Congo family of languages. The closest relative of Anyin is Baoulé, and it is also close to Nzema.\n\nThe dialects of Anyin are Sanvi, Indenie, Bini, Bona, Moronou, Djuablin, Ano, Abe, Barabo and Alangua. The \"Morofo\" (one quarter of speakers) variety may be classified as a separate language.\n\nIn Côte d'Ivoire, there are approximately 610,000 native speakers of Anyin, along with 10,000 to 100,000 second-language users. There are a quarter-million speakers of Anyin in Ghana.\n\nThe name of this language is also spelled Agni, Agny and Anyi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17977167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17977167", "title": "Armenians in Jordan", "text": "Armenians in Jordan\n\nArmenians in Jordan are ethnic Armenians living within the current Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. There are an estimated 3,000 Armenians living in the country today with an estimated 2,500 of them being members of the Armenian Apostolic Church, and predominantly speak Western Armenian dialect. Armenians make up the biggest majority of non-Arab Christians in the country.\n\nThere were about 6000 Armenians living in Jordan during the period 1930-1946. After the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, a new wave of immigrants came from Palestine to Jordan increasing the number of Armenians to about 10,000. However starting in the 1950s, and particularly after the 1967 Arab-Israeli Six-Day War, Jordan witnessed the emigration of a large number of Armenians to Australia, Canada, and the United States a trend that continued in the 1970s, reducing the numbers of Jordanian Armenians to about 3,000.\n\nThe majority of these Armenians are the descendants of survivors from the Armenian Genocide during World War I who were deported from the Ottoman Empire in Anatolia and Cilicia or fled to Syria and then Jordan. The early Armenian refugees in Jordan resided mainly in places like Ma'an, Shobak, Al Karak and Madaba and Russeifa. Nowadays, the majority of the Armenians lives in the capital Amman, with a few families in Irbid, Aqaba, Madaba and Zarqa.\n\nArmenians have worked in various jobs and professions. They mainly excelled in professions like photography, fashion, car mechanics and in professional businesses and small trade.\n\nMost Armenian organizations and schools and religious structures are located in Amman's Jabal Al-Ashrafieh neighborhood also commonly called the Armenian Neighborhood (in pronounced Hayy al-Arman).\n\nWhile most Armenians have now moved out of the Armenian quarter in Amman, the Armenian quarter currently comprises two Armenian churches. \nArmenians in Jordan are mainly followers of the Armenian Apostolic Church, under the jurisdiction of the Armenian Patriarchate of Jerusalem. The patriarch of Jerusalem assigns a bishop assigned for the Jordanian diocese. A small minority of Armenians in Jordan belongs to the Armenian Catholic Church.\n\nThe churches:\n\nArmenian education is very important in maintaining Armenian language and identity among the Armenian community in Jordan. Amman is host to many Armenian institutions, long-running schools and cultural associations. Armenian students, who graduate from those community schools, can immediately enter the Jordanian High school system, after passing the elementary school classes.\n\nFirst Armenian school was founded in Jabal Al-Natheef in Amman . Called Hetoumyan Azkayeen Varjaran, it operated in the 1930s. Another smaller school operated in Russeifa founded by Samuel Agha Serpekian.\n\nCurrently, two Armenian elementary schools operate in Amman:\n\nThe majority of Armenian organizations are based in Amman. Those organizations aim to serve as a gathering for members of the Armenian community through engaging in various activities such as arts and culture, sports, dance, scouting, women activities, youth and charitable associations, and celebration of national events.\n\n\n\nArmenians in Jordan participated in many of Jordan national leagues and Sport tournaments presented by the 2 clubs in Jordan Homenetmen and Watany Sporting Club.\n\nWSC currently have a Chess Team and active in Jordan League tournaments, and hosted many tournaments on the occasion of King Abdullah's Birthday and Jordan Independence Day for the last decade.\n\nBasketball is the most prominent of the activities of the two Armenian sports clubs Watany Sporting Club and Homenetmen. They both had prominent basketball teams and played in the official Jordanian Basketball League in first and second division starting 1950s and until the 1990s.\n\nSome Jordanian Armenian players have represented Jordan and were members of the Jordanian National Basketball Team. In addition, Watany Sporting Club won Jordanian Basketball League tournament in 1963.\n\n"}
{"id": "42494246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42494246", "title": "Asad Jahangir", "text": "Asad Jahangir\n\nAsad Jahangir Khan (born 25 December 1945 in Campbellpur, Punjab) is a former first-class cricketer and senior police officer in Pakistan.\n\nThe son of Jahangir Khan and the elder brother of Majid Khan, Asad Jahangir Khan made his first-class debut in the 1964–65 season while studying at the University of the Punjab. He went to Keble College, Oxford in 1966, and played for the university team from 1967 to 1969. His best season was 1968, when he took 41 wickets with his off-spin in 14 matches, at an average of 28.80.\n\nPlaying for an Oxford and Cambridge XI against the touring Australians in May 1968, he took 7 for 84, including the wickets of Bill Lawry, Ian Chappell and Bob Cowper. Earlier that month he had taken 5 for 44 against Warwickshire, including the wickets of Rohan Kanhai and John Jameson. In the next match, opening the batting with Fred Goldstein against Somerset, he made 50 not out in an unbroken partnership of 148.\n\nIn 1969 his bowling fell away (three wickets in six matches) but he made 280 runs at 31.11, including his highest score of 92 against D.H. Robins' XI. A week earlier he had made 81 not out against Kent to take Oxford to a one-wicket victory with a ball to spare.\n\nHe returned to Pakistan and played a few matches for Lahore cricket teams in 1969–70 and 1970–71. His last first-class match was a semi-final of the Quaid-e-Azam Trophy in February 1971, when, playing for Lahore Greens, he took 3 for 157 off 52 overs against Karachi Blues.\n\nHe worked as a police officer, specialising in traffic policing, and became Inspector-General of Police in Sindh Province. He is now retired.\n\n"}
{"id": "28222916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28222916", "title": "Babar (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Babar (Pashtun tribe)\n\nThe Babar (Pashto: بابړ) or Babori tribe is a Pashtun tribe. The Babar diaspora is spread across Pakistan, Afghanistan and India today. \n\nIn the First World War 78 people of the Babar tribe from Pirpiai went to the war as Indian Army men and four were killed. Hence, Pirpiai is one of the very few villages which has an official plaque commemorating its First World War contribution. Babar, the ancestor of the Babar tribe was born at Takht-e-Sulaiman in 1175; six generations after Qais Abdur Rashid. The Babars were initially the same tribe as the Shiranis, also settled in and around the same region as the Babars. As far as the pedigrees show, Shirani was the father of Babar. The Shiranis have three sub-tribes, namely: \n\n\nMaranis still refer to themselves as 'Shirani' as they are the main sub-tribe, but Babars and Mianis identify themselves as completely separate tribes. The Babars are treated by some genealogists as a section of the Shirani Tribe. They are, in fact, the latter's neighbours in the Zhob District of Pakistan, but so distinct that neither has any sense of common tribal solidarity; the Babars even collaborated with a British punitive expedition against the Sherani in 1853. Hence showing, they never speak of such a kinship.\n\nIn the 12th Century there was an initial settlement of a few Babar families in Chaudhwan, in the modern day district of Dera Ismail Khan in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. By the 14th Century, they had moved entirely from the Sulaiman Mountains. In the early 16th Century the tribe had moved to Chaudhwan and some to Zhob. In c.1534, some migrated on to Kandahar in present-day Afghanistan from Zhob. Meanwhile, in Chaudhwan, the Babars fought a battle against a local tribe and emerged victorious. In 1628, they fought another battle against the Gandapur tribe. Soon after, in 1647, the Babars fought off the Marwat tribe in order to gain full command of Chaudhwan by the mid-17th Century. Around the year 1700 or so, some Babars migrated up north to Pirpiai, which they established and held control of. In the reign of Ahmad Shah Durrani many moved east to Multan as well from Chaudhwan. By 1783, others had moved south to Shikarpur in Sindh.\n\nThis is why the Babar diaspora is spread across Pakistan and Afghanistan today. However, the most prominent communities remain the same, the most notable of which is in Pirpiai. Chaudhwan still has a large number of Babars living there. Other communities include, Zhob, Quetta, Multan, Kandahar, Shikarpur and Karachi.\n\nThe further subdivision of the Babar Tribe has been debated frequently in many genealogical books but the ground reality is very clear.\n\nThe tribe is divided into sub-tribes based on the offsprings of four sons:\n\n\nMaswad Khel is further divided into the following sub-sections:\n\n\nThese Maswad Khel reside in Chaudhwan, Qila Saifullah (Pakistan) and Sheberghan (Afghanistan). The Ahmed Khel, however, mainly reside in Shikarpur (Pakistan)\n\nbabar nations live shaberghan afghanistan frome kandahar privince \n\n\nGora Khel reside in Chaudhwan, Qila Saifullah (Pakistan), Kandahar and Sheberghan (Afghanistan). The Yasinzai primarily live in Khangarh (Pakistan).\n\nThe Ibrahim Khel are known to be the most prevalent sub-tribe of the Babars. They primarily reside in Pirpiai, Mardan, toru, Chaudhwan, Multan, Ibrahim Khel Kot, Zhob, Chaman, Quetta, Qila Saifullah, Qilla Abdullah, Dera Ghazi Khan and Karachi in Pakistan. In Afghanistan, they have communities in Kandahar and Sheberghan, Paghman-kabul, .\n\nMara Khel is further divided into the following sub-sections:\n\n\nThey reside in\n\nNote: All sub-tribes of Babars except Mara Khel are present at Chaudhwan, that is why this town is labelled by English historians as a center of command and authority of Babar tribe.\n\nAmanullah Khan Babar (Also known by his nickname 'Manu Khan') is the forefather of all the Pirpiai Babars. He was the first well known personality from the Babar tribe. Amanullah Khan belonged to the Ibrahim Khel sub-tribe and, hence, all Babars from Pirpiai belong the same sub-tribe.\n\nKhan Bahadar Rub Nawaz Khan Babar was a famous Babar Pathan in Multan. He was appointed as a political agent by the British government, during their rule in the South Asia, in Chitral. Khan Bahadar Rub Nawaz Khan was a brave man. He fought a battle in Chitral for which the British government gave him the title of Khan Bahadar. When Rub Nawaz Khan came back to Multan he was appointed the honorary magistrate.\nAnd Ghulam Qadir Khan Babar was also a famous Babar in Multan. By profession, Ghulam Qadir Khan Babar was a great businessman, leading the Babar Khadi starting from Multan, Dera Ismail Khan, Calcutta and Bombay (India).\n\nKhangin Shumali\nIt is a village situited 12KM from main city. Here large number of Babars live there. \nDescendants of Abdul Karim Khan Babar .\n\n2. Khangarh:\nKhangarh is a town/tehsil of Muzzafargarh District.\n\nThe Babars here belong to the Yasinzai sub-section of Ghora Khel sub-tribe of Babars. Initially from Chaudhwan, the family of Naik Qadam Khan Babar moved to Ghazni and settled there. The tomb of Naik Qadam Khan Babar can still be found there.\nFrom Ghazni, they moved to Bannu and then back to Chaudhwan.\n\nFrom Chaudhwan, their family head, Muhammad Hussain, moved to Multan. His son, Abdul Samad Khan settled in Multan.\n\nAllah Dad Khan, son of Abdul Samad Khan, moved on request of Khan Bibi (sister of Nawab Shuja Khan) to Khangarh as the administrator of Khangarh. His mango plantations of the time were famous.\nSaifullah Khan, son of Allah Dad Khan, was awarded the title of “Nawab” and Honorary Majistrate during the British era.\n\nNawab Saifullah Khan has six sons, among them Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan is a big name in Pakistani politics.\n\nBabars are widely scattered in Afghanistan, but the biggest community resides in the city of Sheberghan. It is the provincial capital of Jowzjan Province.\n\nBefore the reign of Sardar Daud, four thousand families of Babars were living in Sheberghan. During his time, upon the arrival of the Soviet Army, the Babar tribe supported Mujahideen. As a consequence, the lives of Babars there became miserable and their killing and looting started.\n\nIn 1953, 2000 Babar families moved further up to the mountainous areas while the remaining 2000 families moved to Balochistan (Pakistan). Pakistan arranged a camp for them in Loralai (Pakistan).\n\nA few years back, Loralai camp was abolished. One thousand Babars families moved back to Sheberghan, 400 families are scattered throughout Balochistan and 600 families or so, live as a community in Qila Saifullah. Babars from all four sub-tribes are found here.But 600 families are Moved to Kundahar ,Zairai Dashtah now they are there for 8 years.\n\nThere is a rough estimate of 70,000 Babars living in Afghanistan presently, in very scattered places.\n\nThe major settlements of Babars in Afghanistan includes:\n\nSheberghan (capital of Jowzjan province) - 9000 families\n\nKandahar (capital of Kandahar province) - 2000 families\n\nMinor settlements include:\n\nMaymana (capital of Faryab province) - 1500 families\n\nOther settlements can be found throughout Afghanistan including, Kunar province, Herat province, Kundus province, Lugar province and Baghlan province, Parwan province and town of Pule Khumri.Babar communities can also be found in the cities of Kabul and Ghazni.\n\nIn the 16th century, a lot of Babar families migrated to Afghanistan from Chaudhwan and Zhob. They were tired of the high death toll resulting from bloody fights with neighbouring tribes for the sake of survival, water and lands. They were mainly rich people due to trading involvement. A majority of them settled in Kandahar, because Kandahar was a major economic and political center at that time in the region.\n\nGul Mohammad Khan was the chief of the tribe here and he was a member of the Loya Jirga during Mirwais Hotak's reign. He was also appointed as the Finance Minister during the era of Ahmad Shah Durrani.\n\nIn the 18th century, Nur Mohammad Khan, son of Gul Muhammad Khan was the Finance Minister during the era of Timur Shah Durrani and Zaman Shah Durrani. He did a lot for the Babar community in this whole region.\n\nIn the 19th century, in the time of Sher Ali Khan, Amir of Afghanistan, Pakhtun tribes from South Afghanistan were motivated to settle in the North. The same policy continued till King Zahir Shah.\n\nThis policy stimulated another big migration of Babars from Kandahar to Northern Afghanistan, mainly to Sheberghan.\n\nNowadays, the main trade in Sheberghan belongs to Babar tribe.\n\nTor Abbas Khan is chief of the Babar tribe at Sheberghan. The District Governor of Faizabad, Gohar Khan is also from the Babar community. The elders of these Babars still remember Chaudhwan as their native village.\n\nMehboob Ali Babar belongs to grand grand Son of Haji Gul Babar, gul babar is a Zamindar of his village\n\nBabars here descendants of two families:\n\n1. Madu Khan\n\nHe belonged to the Maswad Khel Babar sub-tribe and resided in Chaudhwan.\nHe murdered his tribesman in the village. The Jirga decided to provide 200 animals and 2 women for marriage to the affected family in compensation. Madu Khan decided to leave the village. He travelled on the right bank of the Indus River and reached Dera Ghazi Khan, where he settled. His grandson, Abdul Karim, joined the British Police.\n\nToday, the majority of this family serves in the Police Department.\n\n2. Charsham Khan\n\nHe belonged to the Ibrahim Khel Babar sub-tribe and also resided in Chaudhwan. Charsham Khan Babar was a follower of Pir Khwaja Sulaiman. He moved to Druk, District Musa Khel, Balochistan to live with Pir Sahib. When Pir Sahib shifted to Taunsa in Punjab, this Babar family also accompanied him. From Taunsa Sharif, this family, later on shifted to Dera Ghazi Khan.\n\nSardar Shadi Khan, Zakaria Khan Babar - Director FIA (Garda Babar), Malik zahir khan & Malak Kamal khan Babar (Aligadh)\nNotable People\n\nAmanullah Khan Babar (Manu Khan)\n\nAmanullah Khan Babar (Also known by his nickname 'Manu Khan') is the forefather of all the Pirpiai Babars. He was the first well known personality from the Babar tribe. Amanullah Khan belonged to the Ibrahim Khel sub-tribe and, hence, all Babars from Pirpiai belong the same sub-tribe. Initially, he belonged to Ibrahim Khel Kot, situated near Zhob. The remnants of the great fort built there by him still exist. The date inscribed on this fort is of AD 1650 (era of King Shah Jahan).\n\nBy profession, Amanullah Khan was a great trader, leading the Babar caravan starting from Calcutta all the way to Bukhara. He was also a renowned as being a great warrior, protecting the caravans from being looted. Many heroic stories are told about his fights with different tribes.\n\nBy the end of his life, Amanullah Khan moved to Pirpiai along with his family, the main reason for which was to save his children from his enemies. This migration towards Pirpiai is well known and remembered by all the Babars in Zhob and Ibrahim Khel Kot. His name is included in all the Shajra (Family Tree) collected from the Pirpiai Babars.\n\nWith the arrival of Amanullah Khan, the Babars settled in the Pirpiai region, in the beginning of the 18th century (era of King Aurangzeb). All the Babars there today are his descendants.\n\nGul Mohammad Khan Babar\n\nAD (17091747)\n\nGul Mohammad Khan Babar belonged to the Gora Khel sub-tribe and used to live in Kandahar. There, he was the chief of the Babar tribe and Member of the Loya Jirga in the era of Mir Wais Hotak. Gul Mohammad Khan Babar was also the Finance Minister in the reign of Ahmad Shah Durrani (AD 1737-1747). He is also remembered most for his participation in the Third Battle of Panipat against the Marathas.\n\nNur Mohammad Khan Babar\n\nAD (17471798)\n\nNur Mohammad Khan Babar was a famous personality of his time. He belonged to the Gora Khel sub-tribe and was also from Kandahar. He was the son of Gul Mohammad Khan Babar and like his father, he was appointed as Finance Minister in the reign of Timur Shah Durrani. He later on continued with the same post in Zaman Shah Durrani's time. He was also the father-in-law of Zaman Shah Durrani.\n\nNur Mohammad Khan Babar served and helped his tribesmen in Shikarpur, Multan and Chaudhwan. Due to his efforts, the Babar tribe was exempted from taxes and compulsory recruitment in the army during the Durrani Empire. Sadly, in AD 1798, Nur Mohammad Khan Babar was murdered on the order of Zaman Shah Durrani, his own son-in-law and Shah of Afghanistan.\nAbdul Kareem Khan Babar\n\nHe belonged to the Ibrahim Khel sub-tribe from Multan. Abdul Kareem Khan served as Chief of the Multan Provincial Army in the Sadozai and Sikh regimes. He was famous as a great administrator.\n\nSultan Mohammad Khan Babar\n\nAD (17951822)\n\nAnother famous personality of his time, Sultan Mohammad Khan Babar belonged to the Gora Khel sub-tribe from Shikarpur. He was the grandson of Nur Mohammad Khan Babar. He was appointed as the Governor of Jalalabad in the era of Zaman Shah Durrani. He gave up his post and relocated to Shikarpur, upon the wish of his grandfather. Here, Sultan Mohammad Khan Babar purchased 50000 acres of land and also, a canal, from Dost Khan. He used to reside in Sultan Kot, just outside Shikarpur.\n\nSultan Mohammad Khan Babar was also on really good terms with Shuja Shah Durrani since his daughter was married to Shuja Shah Durrani's son, Fateh Jung. Shuja Shah Durrani stayed at his settlement in Shikarpur for many months.he also help him in his last attempt for throne of Afghanistan in 1838.\n\nSultan Mohammed Khan Babar was son of Behrose khan Babar governor of jalalabad in Tamoor Shah era.\n\nZaman Khan Babar\n\nAD (18491901)\n\nZaman Khan Babar was a Maswad Khel babar from Chaudhwan. He served as a Commander in the army of Amir Abdur Rahman Khan. He also led the fight against the invaders from neighbouring tribes in order to protect Zam Chaudhwan (the only drinking water and irrigation source to Chaudhwan). Zaman Khan Babar was known as a brilliant warrior, leader and tactician. He also built a fort at Zam Chaudhwan.\n\nAllama Abdul Shakoor Rashad\n\nAD (19212004)\n\nAllama Abdul Shakoor Rashad was an Ibrahim Khel Babar from Kandahar. He served as the Deputy Mayor of Kandahar and later on in life was a Professor at Kabul University. He has written a total of 139 books. 59 out of which have been published and 80 are unpublished. One of his unpublished books, \"Aminul Mulk and Babar Clan\" is the leading source on the history of Babars.\n\nColonel Mir Haider Khan\n\nAD (?-1973)\n\nOne of the first Pukhtun officers in the British Army, he was a much respected village elder from Pirpiai, a man of distinction. He served as the last Defence Minister of Kalat before its accession to Pakistan. A major landlord of Pirpiai and a notable person of the Babar tribe, he was a man known for his flair and principles. He was an avid antique collector. Col. Mir Haider Khan was also the one who, for a large sum of money, purchased Peshawar Zoo and shifted it to Pirpiai. Famous British generals were known to have been invited to Pirpiai Fort by him, which included Field Marshal Gracy, Field Marshal Roos Capel, General Hastings, the Governor General of India and many more notables of the time. The barbecues and shooting parties of the time were famous. Most remember him as the man that put a face to Pirpiai and probably is the architect of making the village what it is today.\n\nMajor General Adam Khan\n\nAD (19101973)\n\nA Sandhurst returned army officer, Maj. Gen. Adam Khan served in the British Indian Army and was later one of the first five Major-Generals in Pakistan. He was the nephew of Col. Mir Haider Khan and the son of Mir Safdar Khan. A distinguished officer of his time, he is still known in the Pakistan Army for his strong personality and principles. He was also appointed as the head of Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation. Maj. Gen. Adam Khan was a reputed landlord of Pirpiai, but in his later years chose to settle in the nearby village of Amangarh, where his sons and their families still reside. He was a recipient of the Military Cross, a British Military decoration, for \"acts of exemplary gallantry\".\n\nMajor General Naseerullah Khan Babar\n\nAD (19282011)\n\nA very well known personality in Pirpiai, Maj. Gen. Naseerullah Khan Babar served in the Pakistan Army. Throughout his life he remained an important political figure in Pirpiai and enjoyed several other posts. He was appointed the Inspector General of the Frontier Corps and was a senior central leader of Pakistan Peoples Party. He served as Governor of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa from 19751977 under Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's government as well as the Interior Minister of Pakistan during Benazir Bhutto's second government from 19931996. He was a Special Assistant in Benazir Bhutto's first government from 19881990. He was awarded the Sitara-e-Jurat for single-handedly capturing an entire Indian company of soldiers during the 1965 war, and also the Hilal-e-Jurat, which he famously threw away along with other army medals at the presiding officer of a military tribunal, when Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto was hanged by the military regime of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq.\n\nMajor Farouk Adam Khan\n\nAD (1940-)\n\nOne of the most prominent lawyers in Pakistan today, Maj. Farouk Adam Khan is the son of Maj. Gen. Adam Khan. Like his father, he was also a Sandhurst officer and was the architect of The Attock Conspiracy, whereby with the help of his brother Maj. Iftikhar Adam Khan and other army officers, he hatched a conspiracy in the 1970s to topple the government of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. They were apprehended by the then serving General Zia ul Haq and tried in the famous Attock Fort, after one of their own lost his nerve and went to report the entire scheme directly to the Prime Minister. Hence, naming the conspiracy by the same name and sentenced to life imprisonment later commuted to 5 years each, which they served. Farouk Adam Khan later served as the Prosecutor General of the National Accountability Bureau upon its formation. He was awarded the Sitara-e-Jurat for acts of bravery in the 1965 war\n\n\nOne of the most respectable Judge in Pakistan, Ihsan Ullah Baber is the son of Abdul Sattar khan Baber. He was highly qualified and worked as District and Session Judge High Court Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhawa. He was born in 1947 and got retired in 2007 as District and Session Judge Peshawar. Now he is working as an Advocate OF HIGH COURT PESHAWAR.\n\n"}
{"id": "1543389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1543389", "title": "Barefoot doctor", "text": "Barefoot doctor\n\nBarefoot doctors () are farmers who received minimal basic medical and paramedical training and worked in rural villages in China. Their purpose was to bring health care to rural areas where urban-trained doctors would not settle. They promoted basic hygiene, preventive healthcare, and family planning and treated common illnesses. The name comes from southern farmers, who would often work barefoot in the rice paddies.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Rural Reconstruction Movement had pioneered village health workers trained in basic health as part of a coordinated system, and there had been provincial experiments after 1949, but after Mao Zedong's healthcare speech in 1965 the concept was developed and institutionalized. In his speech, Mao Zedong criticized the urban bias of the medical system of the time, and called for a system with greater focus on the well being of the rural population.\nChina's health policy changed quickly after this speech and in 1968, the barefoot doctors program became integrated into national policy. These programs were called \"rural cooperative medical systems\" (RCMS) and strove to include community participation with the rural provision of health services. \nBarefoot doctors became a part of the Cultural Revolution, which also radically diminished the influence of the Ministry of Health, which was dominated by Western-trained doctors.\n\nThe barefoot doctors usually graduated from secondary school and then received about six months of training at a county or community hospital, though training length varied from a few months to one and a half years. Training was focused on epidemic disease prevention,\ncuring simple ailments that were common in the specific area, and were trained to use Western medicines and techniques. An important part of the Cultural Revolution was the movement of sending intellectuals, and in this case doctors, to serve in the countryside (). They would live in an area for half a year to a year and continue the education of the barefoot doctors. About a fifth of the barefoot doctors later entered medical school.\n\nBarefoot doctors acted as a primary health-care provider at the grass-roots level. They were given a set of medicines, both Western and Chinese, that they would dispense. Often they grew their own herbs in the backyard. As Mao had called for, they tried to integrate both Western and Chinese medicine, like acupuncture and moxibustion. An important feature was that they were still involved in farm work, often spending as much as 50% of their time on this - this meant that the rural farmers perceived them as peers and respected their advice more. They were integrated into a system where they could refer seriously ill people to township and county hospitals.\n\nBarefoot doctors provided mostly primary health care services, and focused on prevention rather than treatment. They provided immunizations, delivery for pregnant women, and improvement of sanitation. The income of the barefoot doctors was calculated as if it were agricultural work; they were paid roughly half of what a classically trained doctor made. This funding came from collective welfare funds as well as from local farmer contributions (from 0.5% to 2% of their annual incomes). This program was successful in part because the doctors were selected and paid by their own villages. By the 1960s, there were Rural Co-operative Medical Schemes (RCMS) programs in 90% of China's rural villages.\n\nThe work of the barefoot doctors effectively reduced health care costs in the People’s Republic of China, and provided primary care treatment to the rural farming population. The World Health Organization regarded RCMS as a “successful example of solving shortages or medical services in rural areas”. Because of barefoot doctors providing primary health care so that basic health care is an affordable cost and give China’s entrance into the United Nations (UN) and WHO. Moreover, this also represents that some certain diseases in poor countries can be solved but just need adequate technological solution.\n\nTwo-thirds of the village doctors currently practicing in rural China began their training as barefoot doctors. This includes Chen Zhu, China’s former Minister of Health, who practiced as a barefoot doctor for five years before going on to receive additional training.\n\nThe barefoot doctor system was abolished in 1981 with the end of the commune system of agricultural cooperatives. The new economic policy in China promoted a shift from collectivism to individual production by the family unit. This shift caused a privatization of the medical system, which could not sustain the barefoot doctors. The barefoot doctors were given the option to take a national exam, if they passed they became village doctors, if not they would be village health aides. Village doctors began charging patients for their services, and because of the new economic incentives, they began to shift their focus to treatment of chronic conditions rather than preventative care.\n\nBy 1984, village RCMS coverage had dropped from 90% to 4.8%. In 1989 the Chinese government tried to restore a cooperative health care system in the rural provinces by launching a nationwide primary health care program. This effort increased coverage up to 10% by 1993. In 1994 the government established “The Program”, which was an effort to reestablish primary health care coverage for the rural population.\n\nIn 2003 the Chinese government proposed a new cooperative medical system that is operated and funded by the government. This program is run more like an insurance program. It pays 10 Renminbi per year for each person covered by the program, and ensures coverage for serious diseases. This new program relies heavily on lessons learned from the times of the barefoot doctors, but faces many challenges in providing sufficient, cost-effective care for China’s rural populations.\n\nThe system of barefoot doctors was among the most important inspirations for the World Health Organization conference in Alma-Ata, Kazakhstan in 1978 where the Alma Ata Declaration was signed unanimously. This was hailed as a revolutionary breakthrough in international health ideology - it called for local communities participating in deciding health care priorities, called for an emphasis on primary and preventive healthcare, and most importantly sought to link medicine with trade, economics, industry, rural politics and other political and social areas.\n\nIn 1977, Jean-Pierre Willem created an international humanitarian apolitical non-governmental organization of doctors called \"Médecins aux pieds nus\" in France. Volunteers work in Burundi, Colombia and Southeast Asia with local healers to develop \"medical garden\" for herbalism and make essential oils for gemmotherapy. In 1999, Jean-Claude Rodet became the first president of Médecins aux pieds nus Canada working with Mark Smith in the United States. This NGO leads ethnobiological missions based on \"proximity, prevention and humility\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40930448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40930448", "title": "Bible translations into the languages of Northeast India", "text": "Bible translations into the languages of Northeast India\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe List below gives the date-wise listing of the translations of the full Holy Bible into the major spoken languages in the states of North East India.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8841918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8841918", "title": "Bulat-Batır", "text": "Bulat-Batır\n\nBulat-Batır or Bulat-batyr (Russian: Була́т-Баты́р, Tatar: بولات باتر) is a 1928 silent historical drama film, believed to be the first Tatar film and probably the only Tatar full-length feature silent film. The film was shot mostly in Kazan, and the Kazan Kremlin was one of its stills. The film is devoted to the Pugachev rebellion and its alternative names include Pugachyovshchina (), Flames on Volga and Revolt in Kazan.\n\nThe story was written by Abdraxman Şakirov, a young Communist from Agryz and the script was written by Natan Zarhi, a Soviet scenario writer.\n\nIn the 18th century, a small Tatar village celebrates the Sabantuy festival. Orthodox monks accompanied by soldiers appear to forcibly baptize the population of the village. Locals resist and soldiers commit a punitive action. The wife of peasant Bulat is killed by soldiers, his son Asfan is carried off. Bulat stays alone with another son, Asma. 15 years after Bulat and Asma joined the Pugachev rebellion and Bulat became famous as a defender of paupers. But his son Asfan, who was reared among nobles, received a commission and led a punitive force directed to suppress a rebellion in his motherland.\n\n\nIt is known that after the premiere in Germany one White émigré Antonov-Ivanov attempted to burn a copy of the film in the \"Concordia\" cinema as a sign of protest against \"Bolshevik Propaganda\".\n\nThe film received a positive review from The New York Times praising it for the authentic atmosphere. Bryher praised the scenery and the cinematography.\n\n"}
{"id": "28749523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28749523", "title": "Bwisi language", "text": "Bwisi language\n\nBwisi (also spelled Ibwisi, Mbwisi) is a language spoken mainly in the Kibangou District (Niari Region) of the Republic of Congo, next to the Gabon border, where it is also spoken by a minority. According to the Ethnologue, approximately 4,250 people speak the language today worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "26243710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26243710", "title": "C&amp;C Prize", "text": "C&amp;C Prize\n\nThe NEC C&C Prize () is an award given by the NEC Corporation \"in recognition of outstanding contributions to research and development and/or pioneering work in the fields of semiconductors, computers, telecommunications and their integrated technologies.\" Established in 1985, through the NEC's nonprofit C&C Foundation, C&C Prizes are awarded to two groups or individuals annually. There is no restriction on nationality of nominees. Winners will receive a prize which includes a cash award of 10,000,000 yen and a certificate. The award ceremony is held annually in Tokyo, Japan. \n\nMedal recipients include Nobel Prize winners and scientists, from the father of optics to the pioneer of Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "13518121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13518121", "title": "Carcamano", "text": "Carcamano\n\nCarcamano () is an ethnic slur used in Southern Brazil for the descendants of the non-Iberian European immigrants who arrived in Brazil in the late 19th century and in the early 20th century.\n\nThis name was originally given to the Italian-Brazilians, the largest non-Iberian European community in Brazil, but was slowly spread to other non-Iberian white Brazilian communities like German-Brazilians, Slavic-Brazilians and others.In some regions of Northeastern Brazil (especially the states of Maranhão and Ceará), this term is also used for Brazilian Jews and Arab Brazilians.\n\nEtymology advocates that the word \"carcamano\" is composed of two separate words. \"Calca-\" drawn from the Italian verb \"calcare\", which means \"to press down\" and \"-mano\" (IT) meaning \"hand\". The idea was to refer to the foreigner, probably of Italian origin (whence \"mano\", vs. Portuguese \"mão\"), of pressing down on the scales when weighing goods in the dry goods or grocery store. It is a way of calling the vendor a cheat. This is now generalized to dishonest practices directed to foreigners of Italian descent.\n\nThe term \"carcamano\" (\"carcamani\", pl.) is of Italian dialect origin, more specifically probably a slang from a dialect whether from Naples, Sicily or Calabria (at the beginning of the 20th century the Italian language and its dialects were spoken in São Paulo in the same percentage as the Portuguese language); not of Brazilian origin, though it is used there a lot; it was not used for most of the 20th-21st. centuries for \"cheating merchant\", the term's usage transformed with time; it is derogatory even in Italy, though it lost its stronger bigoted expression, in the past and nowadays, it has been used by \"Italian-Brazilians\" and Italian immigrants themselves as well, it is even used in light jokes, it refers to low social class taste and vulgar, course, crass behavior and way of talking; though it is true that stereotypes of Jewish and other immigrants in both Brazil and US could also fill the definition of 'carcamani\". Originally used in Brazil to refer to uneducated poor immigrants from Italy.\n"}
{"id": "8739390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8739390", "title": "Cognized environment", "text": "Cognized environment\n\nCognized environment is a concept first introduced by the late anthropologist, Roy Rappaport (1968), in contrast to what he called the \"operational environment\" (see Rappaport 1979:97-144, 1984:337-352). Rappaport was an ecological anthropologist, like Andrew P. Vayda, and wished to contrast the actual reality and adaptations (the operational environment) within a people's ecological niche – say, the existence of tsetse flies and their role in causing sleeping sickness among humans – with how the people’s culture understands nature (the cognized environment) – say, the belief that witches live in those areas that science knows is the habitat of the tsetse. Rappaport’s principal concern was the role of ritual in mediating the cognized and operational environments.\n\nAnother group of anthropologists later took up the use of Rappaport’s concepts and applied them toward developing a school of neuroanthropology called Biogenetic Structuralism (see Laughlin and Brady 1978: 6, d'Aquili, Laughlin and McManus 1979: 12ff, Rubinstein, Laughlin and McManus 1984: 21ff, and Laughlin, McManus and d'Aquili 1990:82-90). According to this group, all properties and qualities of experience are mediated by our body’s neuroendocrine systems. These systems function individually and collectively to model reality. The sum total of these models in the brain is the cognized environment. The operational environment refers to the actual niche in which the human or other animal with a brain dwells and adapts. The operational environment is the real world that is modelled by our cognized environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24473636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24473636", "title": "Czech nationalism", "text": "Czech nationalism\n\nCzech nationalism is the nationalism that asserts that Czechs are a nation and promotes the cultural unity of Czechs. Czech nationalism in modern sense first arose in the 19th century as Czech National Revival. In 1848 firstly transferred into the politics of Austrian Empire in Old Czech Party led by František Palacký. Czech national politicians such as Karel Kramář in home and Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk abroad, endorsed liberation during World War I as a means to free Czech lands from Austro-Hungarian rule.\n\nAfter 1918 and creation of Czechoslovakia, absolute majority of national politicians and society adopted Czechoslovakism as their state idea for unified country with the Slovaks.\n\nIn 1990–1992 during transformation of Czechoslovakia into liberal market economy, due to disputes on shape of Czechoslovak federation, Slovak national aspirations strengthened and one of the reasons for final dissolution of Czechoslovakia in 1992 were with the Slovak nationalism also Czech economic nationalism, for not to fund not so developed Slovak economy. Czech Republic became independent on 1 January 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "44442391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44442391", "title": "Eisenvogel", "text": "Eisenvogel\n\nEisenvogel is a Swiss book published by the Swiss-Tibetan writer, filmdirector (\"Who Killed Johnny\") and actress Yangzom Brauen. The full title of the biography \"Eisenvogel: Drei Frauen aus Tibet. Die Geschichte meiner Familie\", literally means \"Iron bird, three women from Tibet, the history of my family\". First published in 2009, the illustrated book is also distributed as paperback, eBook and audiobook in German language.\n\nYangzom Brauen is of Tibetan origin and raised in the cantons of Thurgau and Bern, Switzerland, where she graduated, and migrated to Los Angeles, starring in some movies. She comes from a cosmopolitan family: Her father, a Bernese ethnologist, also moved to the USA, and lives along with her mother, the Tibetan artist Sonam Dolma Brauen, in New York. Her grandmother lives in a student apartment in Bern. There are worlds between the world in which the grandmother grew up, and that the young actress. Her grandmother was a \"Bhikkhuni\" in eastern Tibet from where she moved when the \"14th Dalai Lama\" refuged in 1959 to Dharamshala in northern India. Yangzom's mother was at the age of six when they crossed the Himalayas on foot, but Sonams father and little sister died. How the grandmother with all these strokes of fate handled, in so foreign worlds such as India, Switzerland and the USA, is the central focus in \"Eisenvogel\".\n\nAfter the annexation of Tibet, the dark prophecy of a monk from the eighth century fulfilled: «When the iron bird flies and horses on wheels rolling, then Tibetans will have to leave their homes like ants.» The title of the book refers to that prophecy.\n\nThe medial response in newspaper, radio and television is widely positive, and the book was listed on the bestselling lists in Switzerland and other German-speaking countries.\n\nIn 2009 the book became a best seller in the German-language area with over 100,000 copies sold.\n\n\"Eisenvogel\" was also published in English in 2011:\n\nA film was announced in 2012, but is as of November 2014 not released respectively Yangzom Brauen starred as Tibetan woman in the 2012 film \"Escape from Tibet\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23293357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23293357", "title": "Ethnic groups in Algeria", "text": "Ethnic groups in Algeria\n\nEthnic groups in Algeria include Berbers and Europeans who have contributed to the ethnic make-up.\n\nBerbers are the indigenous population of Algeria. Beginning with the Numidian kingdom till the Middle-Ages. Berbers had extensive historical relationships with both Romans and Phoenicians who eventually build Carthage in their own lands. Partially Romanized and Christian during the Roman Empire, the Berbers and their lands were Islamized in the 7th century with the expansion of the Umayyad Empire from Syria. Previous Roman-Berber cities gradually began to become Arabo-Berber cities where an Arabo-Islamic culture was involved. Arabization was considered as a low phenomenon, mostly due to cultural and economical exchanges between the new Maghreb and the old Mashreq of the Arab world until the 12th century with the invasion of the Bedouin tribe Banu Hilal expanded their cultural influence towards the inland areas. Within the few centuries later, the linguistical Arabization of the Maghreb became much more important and dominant.\n\nThe Berber-speaking Algerians are divided into many subgroups. The Kabyles, or Kaba’il, mostly farmers, live in the compact mountainous section in the northern part of the country between Algiers and Constantine. The Chaouia, or Shawiyyah, live in the Aurès Mountains of the northeast region. The Chenouas and various similar Zenata groups used to occupy a very large area from Central Algeria to Western Algeria. The Mzab, or Mozabites, include sedentary date growers in the Ued Mzab oasis. Desert groups include the Tuareg and Tuat.\n\nOther ethnic groups in Algeria include Europeans of French (Corsican), Spaniards, Italians, and Maltese ancestry, who are estimated at less than 1 percent of the population in 2005. Algeria was also the home of a significant Jewish community, most who fled after Algeria's independence, with about 70,000 Jews emigrating to France and 10,000 to Israel in that period. Almost all the rest left Algeria during the next seven years and fewer than 100 Jews remained in Algeria as of 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "23414871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23414871", "title": "Ethnic groups in Ivory Coast", "text": "Ethnic groups in Ivory Coast\n\nThe ethnic composition of Ivory Coast is complex with more than 60 ethnic groups represented.\n\nThe Akan group, which primarily occupies the eastern and central regions of the country, accounts for about 42.1 percent of the population. The Baoulé are the single largest subgroup of the Akan people, accounting for about 20 percent of the total population. The Voltaiques (Gur) account for about 17.6% of the population. The Northern Mandes from the northwest region of the country make up about 16.5% of the population. The Krou people in the southwest account for about 11 percent; the Bété are the largest subgroup. The Southern Mandes from the western regions account for about 10% of the population. Non-Africans include about 14,000 French and 130,000 Lebanese expatriates.\n"}
{"id": "1995630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995630", "title": "Food Race", "text": "Food Race\n\nAmerican environmental author Daniel Quinn coined the term Food Race (by analogy to the Cold War's \"nuclear arms race\") to describe an understanding of the current overpopulation emergency as a perpetually escalating crisis between growing human population and growing food production, fueled by the latter. Quinn argues that as the worldwide human population increases, the typical international response is to more intensely produce and distribute food to feed these greater numbers of people. However, assuming that population increases according to increased food availability, Quinn argues that this response only ends up leading to an even larger population and thus greater starvation in the end. Therefore, Quinn's clear solution to the Food Race—to stop producing so much food—is not generally a common-sense or intuitive response; instead, it derives from seemingly counter-intuitive or \"outside-the-box\" thinking. \nQuinn bases the Food Race on the premise that the total human population, like that of all other animals, is influenced by food supply. Thus, larger populations are the result of more abundant food supplies, and intensification of food cultivation in response to population growth merely leads to still more population growth. Quinn compared this to the arms race in the Cold War, noting that any increase in food supply is met with a corresponding increase in population. Like Garrett Hardin, then, Quinn sees the only possible conclusions to the Food Race as either abandonment (of such a \"race\") or catastrophe.\n\nThe superficial similarities between this concept and a Malthusian catastrophe are obvious, but Quinn himself notes certain key differences. The primary problem in a Malthusian catastrophe is a population growing larger than its food supply can support; in Quinn's view, this is impossible, as population \"is a function of\" food supply, and not merely some independent variable. The problem for Quinn is not the chaos caused by a scarcity of food during a time of overpopulation, but, rather, the chaos of overpopulation itself. So, in some ways, Quinn's \"Food Race\" is in fact the opposite of the Malthusian problem, which Quinn characterizes as \"How are we going to FEED all these people?\" in contrast to the Quinnian problem: \"How are we going to stop PRODUCING all these people?\"\n\nThe idea that human population is tied to food supply is contentious, however. Many biologists disagree with Quinn's assessment. While food supply certainly imposes an upper limit on population growth, they point out that culture, living standards, human intelligence, and free will can impose lower, secondary limits to population growth. Critics also point out that the most significant population growth is occurring in the Third World, where regional food production is lowest. Meanwhile, the First World, where food is most plentiful, is undergoing a decline in birth rates. Quinn has suggested this results from international food distribution and has claimed that the farms of the First World fuel population growth in the Third. United Nations projections that world population will level off sometime in the near future also contradict Quinn's statements. In November 1998, Daniel Quinn made a video exploring these topics with Dr. Alan Thornhill of the Society for Conservation Biology, entitled, \"Food Production And Population Growth\". Russell Hopfenberg has written at least two papers attempting to prove Quinn's ideas, one paper with David Pimentel entitled \"Human Population Numbers as a Function of Food Supply\" and another, \"Human Carrying Capacity is Determined by Food Availability\". Hopfenberg has also made available a narrated slide show entitled \"World Food and Human Population Growth\". Jason Godesky wrote an article in 2005, entitled \"The Opposite of Malthus\", which attempts to ground Quinn's work in a more solid, scientific framework.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1610350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610350", "title": "Frances Cress Welsing", "text": "Frances Cress Welsing\n\nFrances Luella Welsing (née Cress; March 18, 1935 – January 2, 2016) was an American Afrocentrist psychiatrist. Her 1970 essay, \"The Cress Theory of Color-Confrontation and Racism (White Supremacy)\", offered her interpretation on the origins of what she described as white supremacy culture.\n\nShe was the author of \"The Isis Papers: The Keys to the Colors\" (1991). Welsing caused controversy after she said that homosexuality among African-Americans was a ploy by white males to decrease the black population.\n\nWelsing was born Frances Luella Cress in Chicago on March 18, 1935. Her father, Dr. Henry N. Cress, was a physician, and her mother, Ida Mae Griffen, was a teacher. In 1957, she earned a B.S. degree at Antioch College and in 1962 received an M.D. at Howard University. In the 1960s, Welsing moved to Washington, D.C. and worked at many hospitals, especially children's hospitals. While Welsing was an assistant professor at Howard University she formulated her first body of work in 1969, \"The Cress Theory of Color-Confrontation\" and self published it in 1970. The paper subsequently appeared in the May 1974 edition of the Black Scholar. This was an introduction to her thoughts that would be developed in \"The Isis Papers\". Twenty-two years later she released \"The Isis Papers\", a compilation of essays she has written about global and local race relations.\n\nIn 1992 Welsing published \"The Isis Papers: The Keys to the Colors\". The book is a compilation of essays that she had written over 18 years.\n\nThe name \"The Isis Papers\" was inspired by an ancient Egyptian goddess. Isis was the sister/wife of the most significant god Osiris. According to Welsing, all the names of the gods were significant; however, Osiris means \"lord of the perfect Black\". Wesling specifically chose the name Isis for her admiration of \"truth and justice\" that allowed for justice to be stronger than gold and silver.\n\nIn this book she talks about the genocide of people of color globally, along with issues Black people in the United States face. According to Welsing, the genocide of people of color is caused by white people's inability to produce melanin. The minority status of whites has caused what she calls white genetic survival.\n\nShe believed that injustice caused by racism will end when \"non-white people worldwide recognize, analyze, understand and discuss openly the genocidal dynamic.\" She also tackled issues such as drug use, murder, teen pregnancy, infant mortality, incarceration, and unemployment, in the Black community. According to Welsing, the cause of these issues are her definition of racism (white supremacy). Black men are at the center of Welsing's discussion because, according to her, they \"have the greatest potential to cause white genetic annihilation.\"\n\nIn \"The Isis Papers\", she described white people as the genetically defective descendants of albino mutants. She wrote that due to this \"defective\" mutation, they may have been forcibly expelled from Africa, among other possibilities. \nRacism, in the views of Welsing, is a conspiracy \"to ensure white genetic survival\". She attributed AIDS and addiction to crack cocaine and other substances to \"chemical and biological warfare\" by whites.\n\nWelsing created a definition of racism, which is her theory of non-white genocide globally. She refers to racism and white supremacy synonymously. Her definition is \"Racism (white supremacy) is the local and global power system dynamic, structured and maintained by those who classify themselves as white; whether consciously or subconsciously determined, which consist of patterns of perception, logic, symbol formation, thoughts, speech, action and emotional response, as conducted simultaneously in all areas of people activity: economics, education, entertainment, labor, law, politics, religion, sex, and war; for the ultimate purpose of white genetic survival and to prevent white genetic annihilation on planet earth, a planet upon which the vast and overwhelming majority of people are classified as non-white, (meaning black, brown, red, and yellow people) by white skinned people, and all of the non-white people are genetically dominant in terms of skin coloration compared to the genetic recessive white skinned people\". Welsing was against white supremacy and the emasculation of the Black man.\n\nPublic Enemy were strongly influenced by Welsing's colour theory and her prism on genetic warfare. Much of the album Fear of a Black Planet is lyrically and conceptually based on Welsing's research. On her passing, Chuck D wrote on Twitter \"RIP to the elder Dr. Frances Cress Welsing.. the inspiration behind Fear of a Black Planet.\" Professor Griff has also repeatedly praised her work and paid respect to her influential research, especially regarding the profound effect she had on their music and lyrics.\n\nWelsing stated that the emasculation of the Black man prevents procreation of Black people. According to Welsing, this is one of the goals of racism (white supremacy). She calls this effeminization as a form of oppression. An extension of feminizing Black men is also described by Welsing as bi-sexuality and homosexuality.\n\nBy December 30, 2015, Welsing suffered two strokes and was placed in critical care at a Washington, D.C.-area hospital. She died on January 2, 2016, at the age of 80.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24456829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24456829", "title": "Global Development Finance", "text": "Global Development Finance\n\nThe World Bank’s Global Development Finance, External Debt of Developing Countries (GDF) is the sole repository for statistics on the external debt of developing countries on a loan-by-loan basis. This edition of GDF presents reported or estimated data on the total external debt of all low-and middle-income countries in both electronic and print formats. Data are shown for 128 individual countries that report to the World Bank's Debtor reporting System (DRS). GDF includes over 200 time series indicators from 1970 to 2009, for most reporting countries.\n\nGDF focuses on financial flows, trends in external debt, major economic aggregates, key debt ratios, average terms of new commitments, currency composition of long-term debt, debt restructuring, scheduled debt service projections, and other major financial indicators for developing countries.\n\nThe online database is updated twice a year, once in January and another in April, coinciding with the World Development Indicators database update. The GDF publication is released once a year in the month of January.\n\nThe World Bank’s Open Data site provides access to the GDF database free of charge to all users. A selection of GDF data is featured at data.worldbank.org. Users can browse the data by Country, Indicators, Topics, and Data Catalog. GDF is listed in the catalog and can be accessed directly via dataBank.\n\nThe Economic and Social Data Service (ESDS) International provides the macro-economic datasets free of charge for members of UK higher and further education institutions. In order to access the data, users have to be registered which can be done here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1141158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1141158", "title": "Homosociality", "text": "Homosociality\n\nIn sociology, homosociality means same-sex relationships that are not of a romantic or sexual nature, such as friendship, mentorship, or others. The opposite of homosocial is heterosocial, preferring non-sexual relations with the opposite sex. In group relations involving more than two individuals, the relation can be either homosocial (involving same-sex social relations), bisocial involving social relation with both sexes or heterosocial involving only opposite sex.\n\n\"Homosocial\" was popularized by Eve Sedgwick in her discussion of \"male homosocial desire\". Jean Lipman-Blumen had earlier (1976) defined homosociality as a preference for members of one's own sex – a social rather than a sexual preference.\n\nIn a study presented by Rose, males and females between the ages of 20 and 28 were examined on their evaluations of same- and cross-sex friendships. Results showed a preference for same-sex relationship in both men and women. Cross-sex relationships were evaluated by men and women to be less helpful, and less loyal than same-sex friendships, and friendship formation was found to be different between cross-sex and same-sex relationships as well.\n\nDepending on the culture, and family and social structures, same-sex preferences have been found to develop between 3 and 9 years old. (LaFreniere, Strayer,& Gauthier, 1984; Jacklin& Maccoby, 1978; Harkness & Super, 1985). LaFreniere, Strayer, and Gauthier (1984) conducted a three-year-long study observing fifteen peer groups between the ages of 1 to 6 years old, 98 boys and 93 girls. As they looked into sex-segregation in childhood, the researchers found that segregation rose with age and that most Western children exhibit these preferences around 3–4 years old. However, in a study by Harkenss and Super, Kenyan children were not found to have sex-preference in playmates until the ages of 6 to 9 years old. Researchers observed 152 Kenyan children in rural settings and found that this change didn't occur until parental expectations and customary duties increased. \"Just when and how such gender segregation appears, is the joint product of the individual and the culturally constructed niche\" (Harkness & Super, 1985).\n\nIt appears that the social bias towards members of one's own sex can develop early in children. Specifically, studies have found that by the early age of 3 or 4, children prefer members of their own sex to members of the opposite sex (Bussey & Bandura, 1992). That is, young girls favor other females (girls and women) over males (boys and men). The findings are identical for young boys. Moreover, a study done by Carol Martin (1989) found that boys 4.5 years of age expressed significantly more dislike for a girl depicted as a \"tomboy\" than a boy depicted as a \"sissy\"; whereas boys 8.5 years of age express more dislike for a boy depicted as a \"sissy\". This age difference suggests that children as young as 4 prefer their own sex regardless of gender-incongruent behavior. Around the age of 8 however, boys begin to adhere to and appreciate the social expectations for males—devaluing feminine behavior. It has also been shown that children ages 10–12 prefer same-sex socializing. That is, girls favored girls who socialized with other girls and boys liked boys who socialized with other boys.\n\nHomosociality, by definition, implies neither heterosexuality nor homosexuality. For example, a heterosexual male who prefers to socialize with men may be considered a homosocial heterosexual. The term is often used by feminists to emphasize aspects of solidarity between males. Some feminists also identify a close link between female homosociality, feminism and lesbian desire, with Audre Lorde stating \"the true feminist deals out of a lesbian consciousness whether or not she ever sleeps with women.\"\n\nHomosociality is a term sometimes used in discussions of the all-male world of knightly life in medieval culture. It is also used for historically largely male occupations such as being a sailor (for example, historian Marcus Rediker uses the term to describe the pirate world). Homosocial relationships are not obliged to be sexual relationships; they are merely same-sex social interactions.\n\nPredominantly homosocial arrangements include:\n\nGenerally, the more polarized the gender roles and restrictive the sexual code, the more homosociality one expects to find in a society.\n\nFeminist scholars such as Rosabeth Moss Kanter and Heidi Hartmann and others have emphasized the role of male homosociality in perpetuating perceived patterns of male dominance in the workplace. Kantner has explored \"metaphorical 'homosocial reproduction' - how men attempt to reproduce their dominant power relations by only uniting with and sharing the same occupational space and privilege with those males\" who resemble them - although \"subsequent research has suggested some revisions of Kanter's underlying argument...[re] 'homosocial reproduction'\". Timothy Laurie has criticised the ways in which \"homosociality\" is used in the sociology of masculinity, noting that \"much extant research on [homosociality] retains the premise that men innately seek identification and communication with other men. The mysterious malepolitik is thus privileged over men's relationships to femininity, or women's relationships to masculinity\". In terms of specific studies, Karen Gabriel offers a useful mapping of the working of homosociality in the context of India.\n\nThere is further controversy regarding the relationship between homosociality and homosexuality: \"how, if at all, male homosociality is connected to male homosexuality is one of the key questions posed by scholars in the field\". Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick identifies a continuum between homosociality and homosexuality, going as far as correlating feminism and lesbian desire. This approach has been compared to Adrienne Rich's concept of the \"lesbian continuum.\"\n\nAt the same time, Sedgwick \"defines male homosociality as a form of male bonding with a characteristic triangular structure. In this triangle, men have intense but nonsexual bonds with other men, and women serve as the conduits through which those bonds are expressed\". Sedgwick's analysis of \"the love triangle in which two men appear to be competing for a woman's love...develops René Girard's claim that such a triangle may disguise as rivalry what is actually an attraction between men\". Girard argued that \"the homosexual drift stems logically from the fact that the model/rival is a man\", producing at times a \"noticeably increased preponderance of the mediator and a gradual obliteration of the [female] object\".\n\nResearch at the Australian Research Centre in Sex, Health and Society (ARCSHS), La Trobe University has found that mutual identification over heterosexual activity is often the medium through which male homosocial bonding is enacted.\n\nIn popular culture, the word \"bromance\" has recently been used to refer to an especially close homosocial yet non-sexual relationship between two men. Bromance is most often used in the case of two heterosexual partners, although there have been prominent celebrity gay-straight bromances (also known as homomances or hobromances). The female equivalent is a womance.\n\nEve Sedgwick says, \"Shakespeare's Sonnets seem to offer a single, discursive, deeply felt \"narrative\" of the dangers and vicissitudes of one male homosocial adventure.\"\n"}
{"id": "39321966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39321966", "title": "Huallaga Quechua", "text": "Huallaga Quechua\n\nHuallaga Quechua is a dialect within the Alto Pativilca–Alto Marañón–Alto Huallaga dialect cluster of the Quechua languages. The dialect is spoken in the Central Huánuco region of Perú, primarily in the Huánuco Province districts of Huánuco, Churubamba, Santa María del Valle, San Francisco de Cayrán, and Conchamarca.\n\nAs of 1993, Huallaga Quechua was spoken monolingually by 66% of the population of its native speakers, the remainder of whom are bilingual primarily in Spanish. While communication in Quechua still maintains its cultural value within communities, Spanish is preferred for inter-community use. Because of the widespread bilingualism, a portion of Spanish vocabulary (mostly consisting of terms for recently developed technology) has become incorporated in Huallaga Quechua, and conversely the local Spanish has also loaned words from the Quechua dialect. According to David Weber, the UCLA linguist who published the 1989 grammar of Huallaga Quechua, some now-common phones in Huallaga Quechua are only present in Spanish loanwords and sound-symbolic words, but the language seems to have had no structural influence from Spanish beyond phones and vocabulary.\n\nHaving had no written language until after the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire, Quechua languages throughout South America now use characters from the Latin alphabet. The system was standardized by the Peruvian government in the 1970s and 1980s, and David Weber chooses to adhere to the Peruvian Ministry of Education's standards (4023-75) in his grammar. Recent publications in Huallaga Quechua, however, conform to a new standard (0151-84). \n\nThe Latin symbols for Huallaga Quechua consonants are as follows (cross-reference with phonemic consonants):\n\nIn the (0151-84) regulations published after the Peruvian Ministry of Education standard, is transcribed by and by .\n\nVowels are , corresponding to their IPA values. The orthography for a long vowel in the Ministry (4023-75) standard is by doubling the vowel: → , and the newer (0151-84) regulations apply a diaeresis → .\n\nVoiced stops occur mainly in sound-symbolic words, e.g. \"bunruru-\", 'to rumble [as thunder]', and words borrowed from Spanish, e.g. \"aabi\", 'small bird', from Spanish \"ave\".\n\nHuallaga Quechua notably lacks the ejectives and contrastive aspiration of stops present in other Quechua dialects, such as the Cuzco dialect. The presence of voiced stops primarily in loanwords seems to be common across dialects.\n\nBoth mid vowels in Huallaga Quechua are also Spanish loans. The original three-vowel inventory, contrasting only height and backness, is typical across Quechua dialects.\n\nLength is contrasted phonemically in Huallaga Quechua. Though phonetically length is a vocalic feature, the phonological system treats vowel length as a consonant. This becomes especially important in the limitations on syllable structure. See segmentation rules.\n\nFine semantic differences may be expressed by vowel length:\n\n\nIn Spanish loanwords, Huallaga Quechua often renders accented syllable stress as vowel length, even if the stress does not fall on the penult.\n\nThe maximal syllable structure of Huallaga Quechua is CVC, with V, VC, and CV all being permissible as well. CCC, CC#, #CC, and VV are impermissible.\n\nWhen segmenting a word in Huallaga Quechua for syllables, the process is systematic and straightforward. Begin from the end of the word, working backwards - all vowels become syllable nuclei. If the word ends in a consonant, that consonant is the coda to the word's final syllable. Any single consonant preceding a vowel is the onset to that syllable. Any two consonants in a row will be spanning a syllable boundary. It is important to keep in mind that consonants in this case include length; a CV: syllable is not an open syllable, but a bimoraic closed syllable.\n\nThe addition of morphological affixation complicates the derivation of felicitous syllables. Certain suffixes begin with consonant clusters or consist of single consonants, including vocalic length. The only environment in which these suffixes would not produce impermissible syllables is following a non-lengthened vowel at the end of a root. The category of possessive suffixes in particular undergoes a syllable insertion process in order to prevent the affixation of these suffixes to bimoraic roots from producing illegal structures. The meaningless syllable \"-ni-\" is inserted at the morpheme boundary where a bimoraic-final root meets a possessive suffix with a consonant that appears before a syllable boundary.\n\n\nAn interesting outlier in this process is the possessive suffix [-joq], whose affixation provokes \"-ni\" insertion optionally. This evidence speaks to the generalization of the morpho-phonological \"-ni-\" insertion rule across the entire morphological category of possessive suffixes rather than truly being a phonologically-determined rule.\n\nTwo processes, related diachronically, may be hypothesized to explain the development of \"-ni-\" insertion and its potential eventual generalization:\n\nIn Ia, A noun root gains a possessive suffix at the lexical level, feeding IIa, in which \"-ni-\" is inserted between each bimoraic-final root and pre-syllable-boundary consonant-initial possessive suffix.\n\nOver time, process a may have generalized into process b, in which Ib feeds IIb, allowing a \"-ni-\" to optionally be inserted between any noun root and any possessive suffix.\n\nIn 2011, the collaborative efforts of the American Bible Society, the Peruvian Bible Society, the Summer Institute of Linguistics, and the JAWCA Quechua Association produced the first Bible written in Huallaga Quechua. The publication represented a further step toward the recognition and preservation of all the various dialects of Quechua, many of which have been marginalized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24679405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24679405", "title": "Imams of Yemen", "text": "Imams of Yemen\n\nThe Imams of Yemen and later the Kings of Yemen were religiously consecrated leaders belonging to the Zaidiyyah branch of Shia Islam. They established a blend of religious and secular rule in parts of Yemen from 897. Their imamate endured under varying circumstances until the republican revolution in 1962. Zaidiyyah theology differed from Sevener/Ismaili or Twelver Shi'ites by stressing the presence of an active and visible imam as leader. The imam was expected to be knowledgeable in religious scholarship, and to prove himself a worthy headman of the community, even in battle if this was necessary. A claimant of the imamate would proclaim a \"call\" (da'wa), and there were not infrequently more than one claimant.\n\nThe imams based their legitimacy on descent from the Islamic prophet Muhammad, mostly via al-Qasim ar-Rassi (d. 860). After him, the medieval imams are sometimes known as Rassids. The first of the ruling line, his grandson al-Hadi ila'l-Haqq Yahya, was born in Medina. His fame as an intellectual as well as a leader of note, led to his invitation to Yemen. He was summoned to govern the highland tribes in 893 and again in 896–97. Al-Hadi introduced a multiude of policies and practices that evolved into the particular Yemenite Zaidiyyah brand. The efforts of al-Hadi eventually became the basic guidelines for the religious as well as political characteristics of Yemeni Zaydism. Al-Hadi, however, was not able to consolidate his rule in all of Yemen. He could not even create an enduring state in the highlands, due to the strong localism persisting in the region. There were revolts as well as segments of the population that did not accept his and his successors' pretensions to religio-political rule.\n\nAlthough he did not succeed in establishing any permanent administrative infrastructure, al-Hadi's descendants, and other Alid clans who arrived in his company, became the local aristocracy of the northern highlands. It is from among them that the imams of Yemen were selected for the next one thousand years. The imams were usually chosen from the offspring of al-Qasim ar-Rassi and more specifically of al-Hadi, but on at least eight occasions they were picked from other lines descending from Muhammad's grandsons Hasan and Husain.\n\nYemen throughout most of that period was only rarely a unified political entity; in fact, what was included within its frontiers varied widely, and it has not been governed consistently or uniformly by any single set of rulers except for brief periods. It existed as a part of a number of different political systems/ruling dynasties between the ninth and sixteenth centuries, after which it became a part of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAfter Imam al-Hadi's death in 911, his sons took over the imamate in turn, although it was not hereditary but rather elective among the descendants of Muhammad. From the 11th to the early 17th centuries, however, the imams were usually not chosen from the sons of the former imam, but the title rather circulated among the various Rassid branches. Meanwhile, a multitude of smaller dynasties and families established themselves in the highlands, as well as in Tihama (the low coastal plain) where the imams rarely gained influence. Among the better known of these are the Yu'firids (847–997), the Najahids (1021–1158), the Sulayhids (1047–1138), the Zuray'ids (1080–1174), and the Hatimids (1098–1174). It was during this period, when the Fatimid state was influential, that a portion of the population was converted to Ismailism.\n\nBeginning with the conquest of Yemen by the family of Salah ad-Din ibn Ayyub (Saladin) in 1174, a series of dynasties exercised a modicum of control and administration in Yemen for roughly the next 400 years; these are, in chronological sequence, the Ayyubids, from 1174 to 1229; the Rasulids, from 1229 to 1454; the Tahirids, from 1454 to 1517; and the Mamluks, from 1517 to 1538, when the Ottoman Empire took the Yemeni Tihama.\n\nDuring most of this period, the dynasties and their rulers were primarily engaged in familial, regional, and occasionally sectarian disputes. Ironically, the Sunni Rasulids, who eventually concentrated their rule in southern Yemen for precisely that reason, were the dynasty under which the region experienced the greatest economic growth and political stability.\n\nFor part of the medieval era the Zaydiyyah imams were eclipsed by the lowland dynasties, and for long periods there would be no imam at all (especially in 1066–1138 and 1171–1187). From the end of the thirteenth century the political fortunes of the Zaydiyya imams revived somewhat. They were able to hold their own against the Rasulids and Tahirids and sometimes expand their territory. Often however, and especially after 1436, the imamate was split between several contenders.\n\nComparatively little is known about the medieval Zaydi imams and their efforts to establish themselves and develop some form of administration (including tax collection), or their success in promoting Zaydi goals during this period. From the available evidence, there was very little continuity and a great deal of competition among the Zaydi families and clans. For example, in a presumably representative two-hundred-year period from the thirteenth to the fifteenth centuries, there appear to have been more than twenty different candidates for the imamate, representing more than ten distinct clans.\n\nEventually the Europeans entered the Middle East, specifically the Portuguese and then others, in the effort to control the Red Sea trade. For the Zaydiyya imams, however, the Ottomans constituted the greater external threat. Ottoman expeditions managed to defeat the highland tribesmen in the mid decades of the sixteenth century. From the early 17th century al-Mansur al-Qasim, belonging to one the Rassid branches (later known as the Qasimids), raised the standard of rebellion. His son al-Mu'ayyad Muhammad managed to gather the entire Yemen under his authority, expel the Turks, and establish an independent political entity. For a time, the imams ruled a comprehensive territory, including South Yemen and areas even further to the east. Their economic base was strengthened by the coffee trade of the coastal entrepot Mocha. Unlike in the previous practice, the Qasimids ruled as a hereditary dynasty.\n\nThe power of the imamate declined in the 18th and 19th century, especially in the wake of the Wahhabi invasions after 1800. The territory controlled by the imams shrank successively after 1681, and the lucrative coffee trade declined with new producers in other parts of the world. The Qasimid state has been characterized as a \"quasi-state\" with an inherent tension between tribes and government, and between tribal culture and learned Islamic morality. The imams themselves adopted the style of Middle East monarchies, becoming increasingly distant figures. As a result, they eventually lost their charismatic and spiritual position among the tribes of Yemen. The imamate was further eclipsed by the second coming of the Turks to lowland Yemen in 1848, and to the highlands in 1872. However, the Ottoman troops were never able to entirely quell resistance against Turkish rule. The occupants were eventually driven out by 1918, by a Qasimid side-branch which inaugurated the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen.\n\nFor the next 44 years North Yemen was ruled by two powerful imams. Yahya bin Muhammad Hamid ad-Din and his son Ahmad bin Yahya created a kingdom there much as the kings of England and France had done centuries earlier. The two imams strengthened the state and secured its borders. They used the imamate to insulate Yemen and revitalize its Islamic culture and society at a time when traditional societies around the world were declining under imperial rule. While Yemen under the two imams seemed almost frozen in time, a small but increasing number of Yemenis became aware of the contrast between an autocratic society they saw as stagnant and the political and economic modernization occurring in other parts of the world. This produced an important chain of events: the birth of the nationalist Free Yemeni Movement in the mid-1940s, an aborted 1948 revolution in which Imam Yahya was killed, a failed 1955 coup against Imam Ahmad, and finally, the 1962 revolution in which the recently enthroned imam Muhammad al-Badr was deposed by a group of nationalist officers and the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) was proclaimed under the leadership of Abdullah al-Sallal.\n\nThe first five years of President Al-Sallal's rule, from 1962 to 1967, comprised the first chapter in the history of North Yemen. Marked by the revolution that began it, this period witnessed a lengthy civil war between Yemeni republican forces, based in the cities and supported by Egypt, and the royalist supporters of the deposed imam, backed by Saudi Arabia and Jordan. In 1965 Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser met with King Faisal of Saudi Arabia to consider a possible settlement to the civil war. The meeting resulted in an agreement whereby both countries pledged to end their involvement and allow the people of North Yemen to choose their own government. Subsequent peace conferences were ineffectual, however, and fighting flared up again in 1966.\n\nBy 1967 the war had reached a stalemate, and the republicans had split into opposing factions concerning relations with Egypt and Saudi Arabia. In late 1967 Al-Sallal’s government was overthrown and he was replaced as president by Abdul Rahman al-Iryani. Fighting continued until 1970, when Saudi Arabia halted its aid to royalists and established diplomatic ties with North Yemen. Al-Iryani effected the long-sought truce between republican and royalist forces, and presided over the adoption of a democratic constitution in 1970. Imam Muhammad al-Badr, greatly disappointed by the Saudi recognition of the republic, emigrated to London where he died in 1996.\n\nIn June 1974 military officers led by Colonel Ibrahim al-Hamdi staged a bloodless coup, claiming that the government of Al-Iryani had become ineffective. The constitution was suspended, and executive power was vested in a command council, dominated by the military. Al-Hamdi chaired the council and attempted to strengthen and restructure politics in North Yemen. Al-Hamdi was assassinated in 1977, and his successor, former Chief of Staff Ahmed Hussein al-Ghashmi, was killed in June 1978. The lengthy tenure of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who ruled North Yemen from 1978 until it merged with South Yemen in 1990, proved more stable. Saleh strengthened the political system, while an influx of foreign aid and the discovery of oil in North Yemen held out the prospect of economic expansion and development.\n\nThere is no uncontroversial list of imams of Yemen, since many imams were not universally recognized, and sometimes eclipsed by the rule of lowland dynasties or by the Turks. The following list is fairly inclusive.\n\n\n\n\nFor continuation of leadership after 1962, see Houthis.\n\n\nUnlike many of the Imamis (Twelver and Isma'ili branches of the Shi'a denomination), the Zaidis do not ascribe divine or superhuman attributes to their Imams.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7721490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7721490", "title": "Immigration to South Korea", "text": "Immigration to South Korea\n\nAlthough immigration to South Korea is low due to strict immigration policies, it is on the rise. As of 2016, foreign residents accounted for 3.4% of the total population.\n\nMost immigrants are not eligible for citizenship or even permanent residency, unless they are married to a South Korean citizen or have invested more than $5 million USD in the local economy. An exception is made for those whose non-financial contribution to the nation has been specifically recognized by the Minister of Justice, and for holders of a business visa who have invested more than US$500,000.\n\nNationalities of legal foreign residents, who are mostly temporary workers, in South Korea as of December 2017.\nImmigration policy is overseen by the Ministry of Justice through the Korea Immigration Service. Related ministries include: Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Health and Welfare, and Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade.\n\nThe Nationality Act, Immigration Control Act, Multicultural Families Support the Act, and Framework Act on Treatment of Foreigners are the foundation of immigration policy in Korea.\n\nThe government of Korea initiated a discussion whether to establish independent Immigration Office to accommodate fast-growing immigration and to prepare inclusive and rational immigration policies, from 2003, without progress. The Foreigner Policy Committee headed by the Prime Minister is responsible for coordinating policies concerning foreigners, which had formerly been handled by multiple ministries. However, its role is limited due to a shortage of resources and manpower. Establishing an Immigration Office is expected to solve these problems by concentrating all the related resources and manpower under one umbrella.\n\nAccording to the UN Recommendations on Statistics of International Migration (revised in 1998), long-term international immigration is recorded after an individual enters a country and establishes his usual place of residence there for more than a year. So, When Korea government build new policies, immigrant laborers and children of illegal migrants should be counted to follow this guideline.\n\nThe Republic of Korea is a signatory to the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. The Korean government is the competent authority to determine refugee status in Korea.\n\nKorea used to be a migrant-source country, sending farmers, miners, nurses, and workers to the United States, Germany, and the Middle East. The Korean diaspora numbers 6.82 million as of 2009, including 2.34 million in China and 2.1 million in the United States, a slight decline of 220,000 since 2007.\nKorea experienced government-initiated rapid economic growth from the 1970s on, which has been called the \"Miracle on the Han River\". Until the end of the 1980s, Korea was able to sustain its development without foreign laborers because it had enough cheap labor. In the 1990s, however, Korea's plummeting birth rate and growing cost of labor caused labor shortages especially in the so-called \"3D jobs\" (for \"dirty, dangerous, and difficult\").\nEconomic development and urbanization led many people to leave rural areas and move to the city in search of jobs and better living conditions. However, according to Confucian norms, the eldest son must remain in the countryside with his parents. A chronic shortage of marriageable women arose in rural areas, and international marriages began to fill this unmet demand. Most international marriage cases are handled by dating service companies that earn a commission.\n\nMany migrant workers live in Korea, particularly in the industrial suburbs of Gyeonggi Province such as Siheung and Ansan, where foreigners account for 7.6% of the population. The largest number of migrants come from China; out of a total of 55,154 D-3 visa holders in 2005, 17,787 were from China. Other migrants come from South and Southeast Asia.\n\nIn the 21st century, binational marriages in South Korea have grown rapidly and foreign spouses have become highly diverse today. The number of countries represented by foreign husbands and wives has increased from 88 countries in 2001 to 143 countries in 2015.\n\nIn the 1990s, many brides from neighboring Asian nations such as China and Vietnam have originally immigrated to farming communities in South Korea's countryside. Since the 2000s, the trend spread nationwide and diversified to include all women in East and Southeast Asia and Nepal. For example, in 2001 there were 5,700 Japanese wives married to Korean men living in South Korea - Their immigration to Korea more than doubled to 11,631 in 2015. \n\nForeign husbands have also increased significantly. In 2001, there were only 967 foreign husbands living in South Korea. In 2015, 2433 American, 1218 Japanese and 1109 Canadian husbands had settled in the country, along with many from a diverse number of European nations. Korean women have also married significantly more South Asian men from countries such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka or India than Korean men marrying women from these countries. This was also true for African men, such as those from Nigeria, who have visited Korea more often than others. Many husbands from these countries have settled in the country after coming to Korea originally for work experience or study.\n\nKorean men married significantly more women from Post-Soviet states such as Russia, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Belarus than vice versa, since many brides from these nations are ethnically Korean. This was also true for wives from many Central American nations, some South American nations and all East Asian and Southeast Asian nations.\n\nHowever, other Asians immigrating to the country to marry Koreans have been consistently declining since 2007, while Western husbands and wives settling in the country with Koreans instead have been consistently rising in the same period.\n\nForeign husbands and wives married to Koreans living in South Korea as of 2017\nIn 2007 the UN declared Korea an official receiving country. The number of foreigners in South Korea grew from 390,000 in 1997 to 1 million in 2007. Among these are 630,000 temporary laborers, as well as 100,000 foreigners married to South Korean nationals. Furthermore, there are 230,000 illegal immigrants.\n\nMain sending countries are Asian countries, such as China, Vietnam, Mongolia, the Philippines, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. However, migrants also come from Nigeria, Ghana, Russia, and the United States.\n\nFrom June 14, 1998, those who have at least one Korean parent are automatically granted Korean nationality from birth, regardless of their decisions on whether to choose the nationality of the foreign parent or the country of birth (if born outside Korea).\n\nRequirements for General Naturalization include:\nThe South Korean Government says it wants to create a multicultural society and foreigner-friendly environment.\n\nAs described in the new national plan for immigration policy, the government claims a world-class Korea welcoming of foreigners. However, critics argue that the government’s goals and policies are fundamentally discriminatory. In response, the South Korean government introduced new regulations in April 2014, which meant foreign spouses would have to pass a Korean-language proficiency test and earn a minimum wage of $14,000.\n\nSince 1991 Korea has experienced a large influx of foreign workers. Approximately 10,000 Asian workers came to Korea under a newly established trainee program in 1992. In June 1996, there were 57,000 trainees in Korea. Despite its growth, the trainee program also had problems—namely that the trainees became undocumented workers due to wage differentials, and that they were not protected by the Labor Standard Law as they were not considered laborers.\n\nSince 2004, the Korean government has followed the \"Employment Permit Program\" for foreigners, the product of a decade of interaction between Korean citizens and foreign migrant workers. Legally, foreigners are allowed to enter mainly to fulfill low-wage jobs, and they are excluded from receiving social services. Public opinion data shows that Korean citizens retain a discriminatory attitude towards foreign workers.\n\nThere are many reports from legal and illegal immigrants which have jailed in many prisons in South Korea because of small problems or misunderstanding their visas for long time. Also, there are some reports about beating and abusing the prisoners. South Korea immigration also forced them to buy the deportation ticket.\n\nForeign brides and their multicultural children are growing into a major political issue. Sending countries are likely to worry about their immigrants due to deep-rooted discrimination against foreigners in Korea. Now, most immigration into Korea comes from Southeast Asia, and immigrant treatment, particularly if there is abuse of foreign brides, is likely to provoke not only domestic problems, but also diplomatic tension. What immigration there has been, is frequently so focused on the birth-rate problem that it is more properly called bride-importing than immigration.\nThe terms \"kosian\" or \"onnurian\" refer to a person of mixed heritage, most commonly applied to children of a South Korean father and a Southeast Asian mother. The term \"Kosian\" was coined in 1997 by intercultural families to refer to themselves, but its use spread in the early 2000s as international marriages became increasingly common in rural areas. It is considered offensive by some who prefer to identify simply as Korean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12062645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12062645", "title": "Indo-Jamaicans", "text": "Indo-Jamaicans\n\nIndo-Jamaicans or Indian-Jamaicans, are the descendants of people who came from the Indian subcontinent to Jamaica and are the descendants of citizens or nationals of Jamaica. Indians form the third largest racial group in Jamaica after Africans and non-African Multiracials. However, because most African-mixed Jamaicans self-report as 'black', the population of people with partial Indian ancestry is estimated to be much larger. Along with the Chinese and Arabs, Indians represent the wider Asian community on the island, and have made a significant impact on its culture.\n\nDue to deteriorating socioeconomic conditions in British India, more than 36,000 Indians came to British Jamaica as indentured labourers under the Indian indenture system between 1845 and 1917, mostly from the Bhojpuri region and the Awadhi region (present-day states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Jharkhand) of the Hindi Belt in North India and other places in the Hindi Belt of North India (present-day states of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttarakhand). A significant minority were from South India. Around two-thirds of the labourers who came remained on the island. The demand for their labour came after the end of slavery in 1830 and the failure to attract workers from Europe. Indian labourers, who had proved their worth in similar conditions in Mauritius, were sought by the British Jamaican government, in addition to workers coming from China. Indian workers were actually paid less than the former West African slaves. This, along with fundamental cultural and linguistic differences and a tendency to not mix with the local population, caused the Africans as well as the British to look down on them. Indians were harassed with the derogatory term, \"coolie,\" referring to their worker status. They were initially placed at the bottom of the social ladder. Despite such hardships, many Indians in Jamaica have retained their culture and religions like Hinduism and Islam. Some Indians have married into the local population of Africans, Creoles, Chinese, Hispanics-Latinos, Arabs, and Europeans. Today the Indian population of Jamaica is either full-blooded Indians or mixed Indians, such as Douglas, Chindians, Asian Latin Americans, Luso-Indian, and Anglo-Indians.\n\nThe British Indian government encouraged indentured labour, and recruiting depots were established in Calcutta and Madras, although agents were paid significantly less per recruit than for a European worker. Most Indians who signed contracts did so in the hope of returning to India with the fruits of their labour rather than intending to migrate permanently. The Indian Government appointed a Protector of Immigrants in Jamaica, although this office tended to protect the interests of the employers rather than the workers. Although technically the workers had to appear before a magistrate and fully understand their terms and conditions, these were written in English and many workers, signing only with a thumb print, did not comprehend the nature of their service.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, smaller numbers of Indians from the Sindh, Gujarat, Kutch, and Punjab regions came to Jamaica not as labourers but as merchants conducting business alongside Chinese and Arab immigrants.\n\nThe first ship carrying workers from India, the \"Maidstone\", landed at Old Harbour Bay in 1845. It bore 200 men, 28 women under 30 years old and 33 children under 12 years old from various towns and villages in Northern India. The numbers arriving increased to 2,439 three years later, at which point the Indian Government halted the scheme to examine its working. The programme resumed in 1859 and continued until the outbreak of World War I, although by the 1870s stories of the hardships suffered by Indian indentured workers were causing disquiet on the subcontinent. Indian indentureship ended in 1917 to the Caribbean (Jamaica, Trinidad, St. Vincent, St. Lucia, Grenada, St. Kitts, St. Croix, Guadeloupe, Martinique, British Guiana (now Guyana), Dutch Guiana (now Suriname), French Guiana, and Belize).\n\nThe labourers were given one suit of clothing, agricultural tools and cooking pots on their arrival, divided into groups of 20 or 40 and sent, first by mule cart and in later years on overcrowded freight trains to the plantations in Portland, St. Thomas, St. Mary, Clarendon and Westmoreland. Here they would work for a shilling a day and live in rudimentary barracks, with several families having to share a single room. Two shillings and six pence were deducted from their meagre wages for the rice, flour, dried fish or goat, peas and seasoning which constituted their rations. Children received half rations but the plantation managers were warned to treat the children well, with quarterly medical checkups theoretically provided. The overwhelming majority of the immigrant labourers were Hindu but little provision was made for their faith and cultural practices. Non-Christian unions were not recognized until 1956 and many accepted Christianity and adopted English names. Higher caste Indians were prohibited from emigrating to the Caribbean so many did not give their family names as they embarked.\n\nThe conditions of the indenture varied from between one and five years, with the workers being released if they fell ill or bought themselves out of their contract. They were not allowed to leave the plantation without a permit, on pain of fines or even imprisonment. Many of the workers and their families suffered from yaws, hookworm, and malaria.\n\nThe original Indentured labourers arriving in Jamaica during the mid to late 19th century mostly did not have surnames back in India. Once arriving in Jamaica, in order to assimilate easier into Jamaican society, they often took Anglo/British originated family names due to those being the majority in the country. It wasn't until the later merchants and businessmen immigrated in the early 20th century that more \"Indian\" sounding names became more common.\n\nAlthough most of the workers originally planned to return to India, the planters lobbied the Government to allow them to stay and defray their settlement costs, largely to save on the costs of returning them to the Indian subcontinent. Money and land were used as incentives, with time expired Indians offered 10 or of Crown land. Often the land was mountainous and infertile so many chose to take the cash in hand and by 1877 close to £32,000 had been spent by the Jamaican authorities.\n\nThe monetary grants were suspended in 1879, with the land grants being halted from 1897 to 1903 and abandoned in 1906 as there was little difference in the costs of repatriating a worker (£15 per person) and offering land grants of £12 per head.\n\nAfter 1899 male immigrants seeking repatriation were obliged to pay up to one-half of their passage and female immigrants up to one-third. Immigrants were further required to pay for blankets and warm clothing.\n\nThe lack of ships available to repatriate the workers was another factor in many of them staying on. Ships refused to sail if not full, and at other times were oversubscribed, leading to some time expired workers being left behind. During World War I German submarine warfare and a lack of ships further cut the numbers able to return. The Indian Government did not encourage the return of workers as many were destitute, ill or had lost touch with their own culture.\n\nThe final group of Indian indentured immigrants arrived in Jamaica in 1914 and the last repatriates left in 1929 with legal repatriation ending in 1930. After 70 years of indentured labour, over half of the Indians who arrived in Jamaica between 1845 and 1916 remained and the Indian community on the island developed and strengthened. Many Indians left Jamaica in the late 19th century to work on the Panama railroad and canal, and as ex-indentured workers for the sugar estates of Belize.\n\nThe Indian workers tended their own gardens after the work on the plantations was done to supplement their diet. They introduced tamarind to the island, in addition to cannabis and the chillum pipe. Hindu festivals such as Diwali were celebrated although many became Christians over time. Gradually workers left the plantations for Kingston and took jobs that better utilized their existing and newly learned skills. The Indian community adopted English as their first language and became jewellers, fishermen, barbers, and shopkeepers.\n\nAs of 2003, approximately 70,000 Indians lived in Jamaica. Despite their small relative numbers, Indians have made an outsized impact on their adopted island, adding several significant contributions to the mostly African-rooted Jamaican culture. They maintain their own cultural organizations that work for the benefit of the Indian community, while being assimilated into the wider Jamaican community. The influence of the caste system has largely atrophied and arranged marriages are no longer common. \n\nIndian jewellery, in the form of intricately wrought gold bangles, are common in Jamaica, with their manufacture and sale going back to the 1860s. During the first half of the 20th century, Indians such as the Jadusinghs owned several jewellery shops in Kingston specializing in pure 18-kt gold. \n\nTraditional Indian foods such as curry goat, eggplant, bitter gourd, okra, roti, dhal, pilaf (cook-up rice) and chutney have become part of the national cuisine. Indians were the first group to grow rice in Jamaica, establishing the island's first successful rice mill in the 1890s. Further, they dominated the island's vegetable production until the late 1940s. Indians introduced several trees and plants to the island, including coolie plum, mango, betel leaves, betel nut, jackfruit and tamarind.\n\nAlongside Hinduism and Sufi Islam, ganja was introduced to Jamaica from India, and smoking it is a spiritual tradition that Rastafarians have adopted as a central tenet of their way of life.\n\nIn the past, every plantation in each parish celebrated Hosay. Today it has been rebranded an Indian carnival and is most well known in Clarendon, where it is celebrated each August. Diwali, a Hindu festival linked with the reaping of grain, the return of Prince Rama after 14 years in exile, and the victory of good over evil, is celebrated late October to early November on the darkest night of the year. Houses are cleaned and brightly lit and everyone is in high spirits.\n\nSome Indians were able to buy generous properties as part of government land settlement schemes during the 1960s. Descendants of the immigrant workers have become highly successful in business and professional pursuits, and have influenced the fields of farming, medicine, politics and even horse-racing. Surnames such as Chatani, Chulani, Tewani, Mahtani, Daswani, Vaswani and Chandiram have become synonymous with manufacturing, wholesale, retail and in-bond businesses, which employ thousands of workers.\n\nIn 1995, the Government of Jamaica proclaimed May 10 Indian Heritage Day in recognition of the Indians’ contribution to the social and economic development of the country. The arrival of the Indians more than 170 years ago is commemorated in stamps.\n\nOn March 1, 1998 the National Council for Indian Culture in Jamaica was formed. It is the umbrella organization of Indian associations with the mission to preserve and promote Indian culture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9471307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9471307", "title": "James Copeland (outlaw)", "text": "James Copeland (outlaw)\n\nJames Copeland (January 18, 1823 – October 30, 1857) was an American outlaw during the early to mid nineteenth century, whose crimes took place mostly, in southern Mississippi and southern Alabama. He was born in Jackson County, Mississippi. He was the co-leader of a gang known as the Wages and Copeland Clan. On October 30, 1857, Copeland was executed by hanging in Perry County, Mississippi.\n\nBorn on January 18, 1823, in Jackson County, Mississippi, to Isham Copeland and Rebecca Wells, James Copeland began school at approximately age ten or eleven. Although his father was willing to put him through school for as long as James desired, he began associating with people who taught him fraud and how to cheat and steal. It was reported that he would often trick his schoolmates out of their money and pocket knives.\n\nJames Copeland himself once said, his first great theft was a valuable pocket knife of a neighbor, whom he tricked out of it. He did this when he was twelve, although he stated he stole from his schoolmates long before this. His next great theft was when he was fourteen. He and his brother, Isham, nicknamed Whinn, went out for a night claiming they were going hunting. Instead, they stole fifteen hogs from a person nearby and went to Mobile to sell them for the sum of $30. He later went back to that person's house and tried to steal more hogs, but he was caught and arrested by the Jackson County Sheriff and charged with larceny. Realizing that the lawyer Copeland's father had hired would not prevent incarceration, Copeland's mother contacted Gale H. Wages, a notorious thief from Mobile, Alabama. Wages first considered waylaying and killing the witness to the hog theft but settled on destroying the evidence instead. Wages and James Copeland burned the Jackson County Courthouse to the ground one night, destroying evidence and everything else housed in the building.\n\nStill a teenager, Copeland joined with the Mobile bandits led by Wages and Charles \"Preacher\" McGrath. Wages took Copeland to a gathering in Mobile, where he was initiated as a member of a large clan that engaged in theft and other crimes for profit. He took the clan's oath: \"You solemnly swear upon the Holy Evangelist of Almighty God, that you will never divulge, and always conceal and never reveal any of the signs or passwords of our order; that you will not invent any sign, token or device by which the secret mysteries of our order may be known; that you will not in any way betray or cause to be betrayed any member of this order — the whole under pain of having your head severed from your body — so help you God.\"\n\nCopeland learned the secret codes and alphabet of the clan, and he eventually brought four of his brothers into the clan. The clan's criminal activities consisted primarily of the theft of Negro slaves and horses, the looting and burning of houses and stores, counterfeiting, boat larceny, and murder.\n\nCopeland knew of water hideouts and boat slips as well as he knew the land. He and his gang burned parts of Mobile, sacked it then disappeared into Mobile Bay. Copeland set fire to the West Side of Mobile and while the citizens were braving the flames to save what they could, the gang looted the East side. After things cooled down, Copeland set fire to the East side and sacked the West side of the port city. Each time, the raiders loaded boats with their plunder and disappeared into the dark waters of Mobile Bay.\n\nThe reported 60 members of the Wages and Copeland Clan were as follows:\n\nJ. Alfred<br>\nJ. Baker<br>\nJ. Bowings<br>\nA. Brown<br>\nD. Brown<br>\nW. Brown<br>\nG. Buskings<br>\nJ. Butler<br>\nR. Cable<br>\nG. Clealand<br>\nHenry Copeland<br>\nJohn Copeland<br>\n\nT. Copeland<br>\nWilliam Copeland<br>\nG. Daniels<br>\nJ. Dewit<br>\nD. Doty<br>\nJ. Doty<br>\nJ. Elva<br>\nJ. Gillet<br>\nJ. Harden<br>\nS. Harden<br>\nJ. Harper<br>\nJ. Harper (see note)<br>\n\nJ. Hevard<br>\nThomas Hix<br>\nW. P. Hobs<br>\nJ. Hopkins<br>\nJ. Kelly<br>\nC. H. McGraffin<br>\nCharles McGrath<br>\nN. McIntosh<br>\nW. W. Moore<br>\n___ Moulton<br>\nE. Myrick<br>\n___ Overall<br>\n\nJ. Pool<br>\nJ. Porter<br>\nT. Powell<br>\nW. W. Ratlief<br>\nW. Ross<br>\nW. Sanferd<br>\nH. Sanford<br>\nE. Sharpor<br>\nS. S. Shoemake<br>\nS. Teapark<br>\nJ. Taylor<br>\nG. H. Wages<br>\n\nJ. Walter<br>\nJ. Waters Jr.<br>\nA. Watson<br>\nG. Welter<br>\nJ. Welter<br>\nJ. W. Wesley<br>\nW. C. Whelps<br>\nJ. Whitfield<br>\nJ. Whitlom<br>\nJasper Whitlow<br>\nJ. F. Wright<br>\nG. Young<br>\n\nNote: Initials of Moulton and Overall were omitted because of doubts about who Copeland referred to. Two Gang members had the same initials.\n\nWages and McGrath attempted to collect a disputed debt for fellow clan member Allen Brown. James Andrew Harvey had purchased, in good faith, a farm from Brown, who did not hold clear title to the property. Unable to establish ownership, Harvey refused to pay the outstanding debt. Brown passed the loan along to Wages, who was to either collect the money or kill Harvey. However, Harvey killed Wages and McGrath.\n\nOn July 15, 1848, James Copeland and his gang rode to James Harvey's home on Red Creek in Perry County (now Forrest County), Mississippi. They had been offered one-thousand dollars by Wages' father, to avenge his son's death. Here, the Copeland clan fought a blazing gun battle, which resulted in the death of Harvey and one of Copeland's men. Friends carried the mortally wounded Harvey to John Dale's home in northwestern Harrison County (now Stone County), where he died several days later and was buried in the nearby Dale Cemetery.\n\nAlthough Copeland escaped the gun battle, he was eventually captured near Mobile in 1849, tried for his Alabama crimes, and sentenced to a four-year prison term. Upon completion of the prison term, Copeland was transferred to Mississippi to stand trial for the Harvey killing, for which he was convicted and sentenced to hang. Before his death on the gallows in 1857, Copeland made a full confession to Sheriff J.R.S. Pitts in Perry County, Mississippi, naming each member of the clan. Many clan members were prominent citizens of Mobile and the surrounding area.\n\nCopeland's body was buried on the banks of the Leaf River near Augusta, Mississippi. After two or three days, the body disappeared, however and a skeleton was purportedly made of his remains. The skeleton was allegedly exhibited at McInnis and Dozier Drugstore in Hattiesburg, Mississippi in the late 19th Century. In the early 1900s, the skeleton vanished and has never been seen again.\n\nCopeland detailed how his clan had buried some $30,000 in gold in a swamp near Mobile and later reburied the treasure in the Catahoula Swamp of Hancock County, Mississippi. Rumors have circulated for decades of Copeland gold caches, still unclaimed, hidden around the shores of the Gulf of Mexico. The James Copeland legend lives today, as treasure hunters search sections of the Mississippi Gulf Coast for burial sites of the Copeland gang's ill-gotten gains.\n\nJohn Murrell (bandit)\n\n"}
{"id": "50483695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50483695", "title": "Land surface effects on climate", "text": "Land surface effects on climate\n\nLand surface effects on climate are wide-ranging and vary by region. Deforestation and exploitation of natural landscapes play a significant role. Some of these environmental changes are similar to those caused by the effects of global warming.\n\nMajor land surface changes affecting climate include deforestation (especially in tropical areas), and destruction of grasslands and xeric woodlands by overgrazing, or lack of grazing. These changes in the natural landscape reduce evapotranspiration, and thus water vapor, in the atmosphere, limiting clouds and precipitation. It has been proposed, in the journal Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics, that evaporation rates from forested areas may exceed that of the oceans, creating zones of low pressure, which enhance the development of storms and rainfall through atmospheric moisture recycling. The American Institute of Biological Sciences published a similar paper in support of this concept in 2009. In addition, with deforestation and/or destruction of grasslands, the amount of dew harvested (or condensed) by plants is greatly diminished. All of this helps lead to desertification in these regions.\n\nThis concept of land-atmosphere feedback is common among permaculturists, such as Masanobu Fukuoka, who, in his book, \"The One Straw Revolution\", said \"rain comes from the ground, not the sky.\"\n\nDeforestation, and conversion of grasslands to desert, may also lead to cooling of the regional climate. This is because of the albedo effect (sunlight reflected by bare ground) during the day, and rapid radiation of heat into space at night, due to the lack of vegetation and atmospheric moisture.\n\nReforestation, conservation grazing, holistic land management, and, in drylands,\nwater harvesting and keyline design, are examples of methods that might help prevent or lessen these drying effects.\n\nOrographic lift occurs when an air mass is forced from a low elevation to a higher elevation as it moves over rising terrain. As the air mass gains altitude it quickly cools down adiabatically, which can raise the relative humidity to 100% and create clouds and, under the right conditions, precipitation.\n\nA rain shadow is a dry area on the leeward side of a mountainous area (away from the wind). The mountains block the passage of rain-producing weather systems and cast a \"shadow\" of dryness behind them. Wind and moist air is drawn by the prevailing winds towards the top of the mountains, where it condenses and precipitates before it crosses the top. In an effect opposite that of orographic lift, the air, without much moisture left, advances behind the mountains creating a drier side called the \"rain shadow\".\n\nA föhn or foehn is a type of dry, warm, down-slope wind that occurs in the lee (downwind side) of a mountain range.\n\nIt is a rain shadow wind that results from the subsequent adiabatic warming of air that has dropped most of its moisture on windward slopes (\"see\" orographic lift). As a consequence of the different adiabatic lapse rates of moist and dry air, the air on the leeward slopes becomes warmer than equivalent elevations on the windward slopes. Föhn winds can raise temperatures by as much as 14 °C (25 °F) in just a matter of minutes. Central Europe enjoys a warmer climate due to the Föhn, as moist winds off the Mediterranean Sea blow over the Alps.\n\n"}
{"id": "1961220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961220", "title": "Lee Pressman", "text": "Lee Pressman\n\nLee Pressman (July 1, 1906 – November 20, 1969) was a labor attorney and earlier a US government functionary, publicly exposed in 1948 as a spy for Soviet intelligence during the mid-1930s (as a member of the Ware Group), following his recent departure from Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) as a result of its purge of Communist Party members and fellow travelers. From 1936 to 1948, he represented the CIO and member unions in landmark collective bargaining deals with major corporations including General Motors and U.S. Steel. According to journalist Murray Kempton, anti-communists referred to him as \"Comrade Big.\"\n\nPressman was born Leon Pressman on July 1, 1906, on the Lower East Side of in New York City, first of two sons of immigrants Harry and Clara Pressman of Minsk. His father was a milliner on the Lower East Side of New York City. As a child, Leon survived polio. In his teens, the family moved out to the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn. In 1922, he entered Washington Square College (absorbed into New York University), where classmates included Nathan Witt and possibly Charles Kramer (later, fellow AAA and Ware Group members), then transferred to Cornell University, where he studied under labor economist Sumner Slichter.\nIn 1926, Pressman received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. In 1929, he received a law degree from Harvard Law School. At Harvard, he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and was in the same class as Alger Hiss. With future defending lawyer Edward Cochrane McLean, they served on the \"Harvard Law Review\":\n\nMr. Hiss: ... Lee Pressman was in my class at the Harvard Law School, and we were both on the Harvard Law Review at the same time.\n\nAfter graduation, he joined the law firm of Chadbourne, Stanchfield & Levy (currently Chadbourne & Parke) in New York City. (During the Great Depression, founder Thomas Chadbourne asserted that the capitalist system itself was \"on trial\" and became an early champion of both collective bargaining rights and profit sharing for workers.) There, he worked for Jerome Frank (future chair of the SEC). When Jerome left in 1933 to work in FDR's New Deal, Pressman joined a small firm called Liebman, Blumenthal & Levy, to handle Jerome's clients.\n\nIn 1933, Pressman joined the Ware Group at the invitation of Harold Ware, a Communist agricultural journalist in Washington, DC: \"I was asked to join by a man named Harold Ware\" (See \"Ware Group\" sub-section, below)\n\nIn July 1933, Pressman received appointment as assistant general counsel of the Agricultural Adjustment Administration (AAA) by Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace. He reported to Jerome Frank, who was general counsel. The New Dealers saw the AAA as complementing the National Recovery Act (NRA – where fellow Ware Group member and lifelong Hiss friend Henry Collins worked). As they arrived at AA, two camps quickly arose: previously existing officials who favored agribusiness interests and New Deal appointees who sought to protect small farmers (and farm laborers) and consumers as much as agribusiness. Or, as Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. summarized the attitude, \"There were too many Ivy League men, too many intellectuals, too many radicals, too many Jews.\" By December 1933, Frank had hired John Abt and Arthur (or Howard) Bachrach (brother of Abt's sister Marion Abt Bachrach) to develop litigation strategies for agricultural reform policies.\n\nIn February 1935, Chester Davis fired many of Frank's cadre, including Pressman, Frank, Gardner Jackson, and two others.\n\nBy April 1935, Pressman had been appointed general counsel in the Works Progress Administration by Harry L. Hopkins. A joint resolution dated January 21, 1935, called the Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935, passed in the United States Congress and became law on April 8, 1935. As a result, on May 6, 1935, FDR issued Executive Order 7034, that essentially transformed the Federal Emergency Relief Administration into the Works Progress Administration. \"Pressman set to work analyzing the budget request that would transform FERA into the WPA.\"\n\nBy mid-summer 1935, Rexford G. Tugwell appointed him general counsel of the Resettlement Administration. Pressman split his time between the two agencies. However, by year's end (he recollected in a letter to Tugwell in 1937), he came to believe that New Deals changes occurred only when \"major controlling financial interests\" concurred or when \"financial interests had been able to seize effective control of the code and manipulate it to enhance their power.\"\n\nPressman left government service in the winter of 1935-36 and went into private law practice in New York City with David Scribner as Pressman & Scribner. Clients included the Marine Engineers Beneficial Association (MEBA), the United Public Workers CIO, and other unions.\n\nIn his role as the CIO's general counsel, Pressman was influential in helping to stop the attempt to deport Communist Longshoreman's Union official Harry Bridges. He continued to interact with Bridges well into June 1948, as longshoremen continued to threaten strikes on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts and Bridges remained president of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union.\n\nIn June 1936, he was named a counsel of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO—later AFL-CIO) for the Steel Workers Organizing Committee (SWOC—later, the United Steelworkers of America), appointed by union chief John L. Lewis as part of a conscious attempt to mobilize left-wing activists on behalf of the new labor federation. According to scholars, \"One of Pressman's unofficial roles in the CIO was liaison between the CIO's Communist faction and its predominantly non-Communist leadership.\"\n\nIn 1936-1937, he supported the Great Flint Sit-Down Strike.\n\nIn June 1938, Pressman moved back to Washington, DC, to become full-time general counsel for the CIO and the SWOC. He remained in this position for the next decade. (According to his obituary in the New York Times, he was general counsel from 1936 to 1948.)\n\nIn August 1938, Pressman criticized the American Bar Association in \"The CIO News\" in his own \"bill of particulars,\" which included the following:\n\nIn May 1939, Pressman spoke on behalf of the CIO before the US Senate's Education and Labor sub-committee to support the \"National Health Bill\" (part of the Reorganization Act of 1939), sponsored by US Senator Robert F. Wagner. He attacked the American Medical Society's position against the bill as \"reactionary,\" which he felt had kept the bill from going \"far enough.\"\n\nFrom May through August 1939, Pressman attacked support for the \"Walsh amendments\" to the 1935 National Labor Relations Act (AKA the \"Wagner Act\"). In May 1939, when AFL president William Green supported the amendments on CBS Radio, the CIO's response, penned by Pressman, accused Green of colluding with the National Association of Manufacturers against not just the CIO but also the AFL, i.e., workers. In August 1939, Pressman appeared before the Senate Labor Committee to state that Green's support did not represent AFL rank and file.\n\nAlso in August 1939, Congress passed the Hatch Act of 1939, which restricted political campaign activities by federal employees. A provision of the Hatch Act made it illegal for the federal government to employ anyone who advocated the overthrow of the federal government. The left-leaning United Public Workers of America (UFWA) immediately hired Pressman to challenge the constitutionality of the Hatch Act.\n\nIn October 1939, during a closed-door session during a CIO convention, president John L. Lewis declared his intent to rid the CIO of \"Communist influence.\" This decision came in response particularly from Philip Murray and Sidney Hillman, the CIO's two vice presidents, that pre-dated the Hitler-Stalin Pact (announced the previous month). Instead, Lewis would empower eight member of the CIO's 42 executive committee members. Further, Lewis increased the number of CIO vice presidents from two to six with: R. J. Thomas, president of the United Automobile Workers; Emil Rieve, president of the Textile Workers of America; W. J. Dalrymple, president of the United Rubber Workers; and Reid Robinson, president of the Smelter Workers. \"Left forces\" failed to have Joseph Curran, president of the National Maritime Union, elected vice president. Further, Lewis demoted Harry Bridges from West Coast CIO director to California state CIO director. The \"New York Times\" further stated:\n\nOn January 3, 1940, Pressman discussed the \"1940 Legislative Program of the CIO\" on CBS Radio. orIn his speech, Pressman said:\n\nOn pretexts of economy, more money for war purposes and similar catch cries, the reactionary financial interests and their political henchmen hope to reduce appropriations for the unemployed and for publish works, to emasculate labor and social legislation, and to restrict our civil liberties. The CIO ... calls for a determined advance in adapting social legislation to the needs of the whole American people.\n\nOn January 14, 1940, John L. Lewis retired from the CIO presidency, and Philip Murray succeeded him.\n\nOn May 18, 1940, Pressman again spoke on CBS Radio, this time on the \"Wagner Act.\"\n\nIn 1941, FDR appointed CIO vice president Sidney Hill to the Office of Production Management. Hillman lobbied for a mediating entity to OPM, and FDR created the National Defense Mediation Board (NDMB). In June 1941, NMDB and the United Auto Workers took over a North American Aviation factory during a strike. Later in June 1941, at a convention of the National Lawyers Guild in Chicago, Pressman criticized the Vinson and Ball bills before the US Congress, both of which he accused of a \"long-range\" plan whose aims included \"destruction of workers' rights to organize, bargain collectively, and strike\"; \"destruction of labor organizations as the barrier to unchecked monopoly profits\"; and \"complete control of the national economy and the government by big business.\"\n\nPressman continued to give as good as he got. In February 1940, he held a \"heated exchange\" with US Representative Clare Hatch during a hearing of the US House Labor Committee, again on the issue of amendments to the NRLA (Wagner Act):\n\nIn September 1941, Pressman received a pin from pro-Communist Mike Quill, leader of the Transport Workers Union (TWU), a CIO member, during a TWU strike. Pressman then urged TWU strikers to stand up to the New York City government, as he had four years earlier in 1937 when the TWU first left the AFL for the CIO.\n\nIn July 1942, the National War Labor Board sought advice on FDR's wage stabilization policy by increasing wages in the four \"Little Steel\" companies with a combined 157,000 employees by one dollar. CIO president Philip Murray and Pressman both supported the increase.\n\nIn July 1943, the CIO formed a political action committee, the \"CIO-PAC,\" chaired by Sidney Hillman, and supported by Pressman and John Abt as co-counsels. In his 1999 memoir, Abt, general counsel for the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America under Sidney Hillman, claimed the leaders of the Communist Party of the USA had inspired the idea of the CIO-PAC:\n\nIn 1943, Gene Dennis came to me and Lee Pressman to first raise the idea of a political action committee to organize labor support for Roosevelt in the approaching 1944 election. Pressman approached Murray with the idea, as I did with Hillman. Both men seized upon the proposla with great enthusiasm.\n\nThus, in 1943, as American spy Elizabeth Bentley resurrected the Ware Group (of which Abt had been a member), could not risk involvement with her or the group. Instead, the group reformed under Victor Perlo as the Perlo Group.\n\nIn September 1943 at a conference of the National Lawyers Guild, Pressman praised labor for reducing strikes and promoting the war effort. He praised the National War Labor Board's policy for recognizing labor unions as institutions within the basic framework of our democratic society. He criticized \"selfish blocs\" in Congress that had opposed FDR's program.\n\nIn 1944, Pressman participated in resolution of a labor dispute of a national case in basic steel, involving some six hundreds unions on strike. The six-person board consisted of David L. Cole and Nathan P. Feisinger for the government, Philip Murry of the CIO with Pressman as counsel for unions, John Stevens with Chester McLain of U.S. Steel for industry.\n\nDuring 1945–1947, Pressman worked with John Abt for the CIO to help create the World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU) as successor to the International Federation of Trade Unions, itself seen as dominated by communist and socialist parties. During formation of the WFTU and in working with pro-Soviet American unions, \"the active role played by\" Pressman \"in writing and rewriting convention resolutions helped to smooth possible conflicts.\"\n\nIn April 1945, Pressman represented Harry Bridges before the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Bridges v. Wixon\" with the help of Carol Weiss King and her recruit, Nathan Greene who penned the brief. Later that month, Pressman joined Murray, Abt, and other CIO officials in Paris for a meeting with Soviet counterparts about the WFTU. In October 1945, he traveled to Moscow with a CIO delegation in the company of John Abt among others.\n\nOn June 6, 1946, he contributed to a broadcast entitled \"Should There Be Stricter Regulation of Labor Unions?\" on \"America's Town Meeting of the Air\" show on NBC Radio with Sen. Allen J. Ellender, Henry J. Taylor, and Rep. Andrew J. Biemiller.\n\nIn July 1946, at a National Lawyers Guild convention in Cleveland, he attacked the \"fallacious notion that increased wages in the interests of adequate purchasing power necessarily bring higher prices.\" He also attacked future Progressive Party vice presidential candidate, US Senator Glen H. Taylor, for the latter's prediction of economic uncertainty due to monopolies. He asked that an \"aroused and enlightened public\" make itself heard in Congress and in the 1946 fall elections:\n\nThis Congress has sought to stifle labor organization and at the same time has fought vigorously to assure expanded profit levels through tax and price policies. It has resisted any effort to lighten the tax burden on the lower income groups, but has acted swiftly to remove the excess-profits tax on corporations while continuing the carry-back provisions permitting gigantic tax rebates out of excess-profits tax payments of prior years.\nIn 1947, Pressman became involved in passage of the Taft-Hartley Act. In January 1947, he appeared on \"New York Times radio\" station WQXR-FM with US Senator Carl A. Hatch, former National War Labor Board chairman William Hammatt Davis, and General Precision Equipment Corporation general counsel Robert T. Rinear, to debate the topic \"Do we need new labor laws?\" While endorsing a Truman commission plan, he attacked any labor legislation passed hastily ahead of the commission's results, saying, \"Judging from the bills now before Congress, their purpose is merely to penalize labor organizations.\" Senator Hatch agreed with him that severe wage cuts in terms of real wages and increased cost of living would not find resolutions in terms of legislation that addresses only jurisdictional disputes or secondary boycotts. \"We need additional and new laws on all phases of the general problem of labor-management,\" Hatch said. Again in January 1947, on the topic of the related Portal to Portal Act of 1947, publicly before the US Senate Judiciary Committee, he urged Congress to make that act a simple authorization to employers and unions to settle portal claims through collective bargaining, while prohibiting management from attempting such settlements with individual workers at the \"economic mercy\" of employers. Further, he urged Congress to use the US Supreme Court's definition of \"work\" as activities of an employe which required physical or mental exertion for an employer's benefit and under an employer's control. Any legislatio that ended portal-to-portal claims, he said, would \"most seriously undermine\" and in fact threatened \"the entire future, operation\" of the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act. Again at month's end, he attacked labor curb bills in Congress during a speech before the University of Cincinnati Lawyers Institute. He said:\n\nHe also asserted that labor unions do not constitute monopolies, compared with industrial combines.\n\nIn June 1947, Pressman also wrote an influential critique of the Taft-Hartley Act, used by President Harry S. Truman as background material to justify his \"bristling\" veto of the measure. Co-sponsor, US Senator Robert A. Taft belittled Truman's veto: \"The veto message covers the Pressman memorandum which the Senator from Montana (James E. Murray) put in the record and to which I replied. The veto message substantially in detail follows the Pressman memorandum ... point by point.\" Taft's accusation drew considerable attention for days. On July 4, the \"Washington Post\"'s Drew Pearson noted \"There've been considerable charges and counter-charges that CIO Counsel Lee Pressman ghost-wrote the hot White House veto message on the Taft-Hartley labor bill. Truth is that he had no direct hand in writing the message, though some of his words did creep in.\" Pearson explained that White House Assistant Clark Clifford had penned the veto with help from William S. Tyson, solicitor of the US Labor Department, and Paul Herzog, chairman of the National Labor Relations Board – and their \"analyses\" of the bill bore striking resemblance to Pressman's analysis.\" Later on June 24, 1947, Pressman appeared again on CBS Radio with Raymond Smethurst, general counsel of NAM to discuss the effect of the new labor law. In August 1947, he gave a strong speech to the International Union of Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers (IUMMSW) against the Taft-Hartley Act.\n\nIn August 1947, Pressman and Reid Robinson called for a third party to support Henry A. Wallace for U.S. President during a convention of the Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers (\"a Communist-dominated union\").\n\nBy September, the right wing of the CIO, led by Emil Rieve, claimed they were about to drive left wingers \"with Lee Pressman as the leading victim\" out of the CIO during its Fall 1947 convention.\n\nIn late 1947, Meyer Bernstein of the United Steel Workers of America wrote as an anti-communist against Pressman (amidst a rising tide led by Walter Reuther against pro-communists in the CIO).\n\nAs of 1948, James I. Loeb, co-founder of both the Union for Democratic Action (UDA) Americans for Democratic Action (ADA), stated that Pressman was \"probably was the most important Communist in the country ... he certainly was a Communist influence.\"\n\nIn early 1948, Pressman led a group of like-minded colleagues in a pitch to CIO executives to abandon Truman and the Democratic Party for Henry A. Wallace and his Progressive Party. The pitch failed. Repercussions came quickly. In late 1947, housecleaning of the CIO from communists had already begun when Len De Caux was let go by Murray.\n\nOn February 4, 1948, Pressman was \"fired from his $19,000 job as CIO general counsel, reportedly as a byproduct of a factional struggle within the federation in which anti-Communist labor leader Walter Reuther emerged triumphant. \"Time\" magazine (anti-communist) gloated, \"Lee Pressman and his Communist line are no longer popular in the C.I.O., where Walter Reuther's right wing is in ascendancy.\" (On March 4, 1948, CIO president Philip Murray announced his replacement by Arthur J. Goldberg.) Pressman went into private legal practice in New York City following his firing. In March and April 1948, however, it was clear that the CIO still used his services, even after \"firing\" him. In March 1948, he joined CIO attorneys in opposing Government attorneys, who had declared that \"the Taft-Hartley Law's ban against expenditures by labor unions in connection with Federal elections permissibly limited Constitutional guarantees of freedom of speech and of the press.\" In April 1948, he represented the CIO before the Supreme Court in a case about barring of expenditures by labor unions for political purposes. (Felix Frankfurter, then Supreme Court Justice, taught at Harvard Law while Pressman was a student there.)\n\nIn March 1948, Pressman's name appeared in the \"New York Times\" as legal counsel of the Furriers Joint Board. The thousand-member Associated Fur Coat and Trimming Manufacturers, Inc., had asked for a return to pre-WWII two-season wage scheme plus compliance with affidavits from non-communist union leaders per the Taft-Hartley Act. The latter condition put pressure on two CPUSA union leaders, Ben Gold and Irving Potash. \"In a unique turn of events,\" Pressman cited a Taft-Hartley Act provision to block a lockout. He sued for a temporary injunction based on failure by employers to give 60-day lockout notice to workers, plus failure to provide thirty-day notification to Federal and state mediation services. He also helped get Potash set free on $5,000 bail while awaiting deportation hearings.\n\nPressman continued private practice. He continued to represent the MEBA, e.g., over a restraining order against strikes on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts in 1948. At the Supreme Court he represented Philip Murray (1886–1952), Scottish-born steelworker and American labor leader, first president of SWOC and USWA, and longest-serving president of the CIO.\n\nAlso in March 1948, Pressman joined a group of lawyers in defending five \"aliens\" against deportation hearings due to their Communist ties. Pressman represented all five, at least some of whom had their own attorneys: alleged Soviet spy Gerhart Eisler (represented by Abraham J. Isserman), Irving Potash of the Fur and Leather Workers Union, Ferdinand C. Smith of the National Maritime Union (Pressman); Charles A. Doyle of the Gas, Coke and Chemical Workers Union (Isadore Englander), and CPUSA labor secretary John Williamson (Carol Weiss King). Pressman went on to join Joseph Forer, a Washington-based attorney, in representing the five before the U.S. Supreme Court. On May 5, 1948, Pressman and Forer received a preliminary injunction so their defendants might have hearings with examiners unconnected with the investigations and prosecutions by examiners of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. (All attorneys were members of the National Lawyers Guild.)\n\nOn May 16, 1948, the United Public Workers read aloud their general counsel Pressman's letter, summarized by the \"New York Times\":\n\nOn May 19, 1948, Securities and Exchange Commission official Anthon H. Lund accused Pressman of interfering in a lawsuit filed against the Kaiser-Frazer car manufacturing company in a Federal District Court in New York City. He specified that between February 3 and 9, 1948, Harold J. Ruttenberg, vice president of the Portsmouth Steel Corporation, had contacted Pressman for advice on \"how to go about filing a stockholder's suite against Kaiser-Frazer.\" Later in May, during testimony before an SEC board of inquiry, Pressman declared he had \"absolutely nothing to do with\" the suit. \"I have not been requested by anyone to suggest the name of a lawyer who would file a lawsuit against the Kaiser-Frazer Corporation.\" He stated, \"I demand that I be given the opportunity to examine Mr. Lund under oath on the stand to determine who gave him that inaccurate information.\" The trial's examiner Milton P. Kroll informed Pressman, \"You have been given the opportunity to state your position on the record. Your request is denied.\"\n\nAfter passage of the Mundt-Nixon Bill on May 19, 1948, at month's end Pressman submitted a long, undated statement called \"The Mundt Control Bill (H.R. 5852), a Law to Legalize Fascism and Destroy American Democracy\" as part of proceedings by the Senate Judicial Committee on \"Control of Subversive Activities.\"\n\nDuring 1948, Pressman formed Pressman, Witt & Cammer; Bella Abzug started her career there. Since February 1948 or earlier, Witt's clients had included the Greater New York CIO Council.\n\nPressman was important enough in American politics to have Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. single him out as recent example in Schlesinger's concept of the \"Vital Center\" as first described in a long \"New York Times\" article in 1948 entitled \"Not Left, Not Right, but a Vital Center.\" In it, Schlesinger argues first that the 19th Century concept of \"linear\" spectrum Left and Right did not fir developments of the 20th Century. Rather, he promoted the \"circular\" spectrum of DeWitt Clinton Poole, in which Fascism and Nazism would meet at the circle's bottom with Soviet Communism (Leninism, Stalinism). He himself promotes the term \"Non-Communist Left\" (NCL) as an American modification of Leon Blum's Third Force. He cites as example the ascendancy of Walter Reuther in the CIO and ouster of Lee Pressman:\n\nNewspapers will doubtless continue to refer to Walter Reuther as the leader of the Right wing of the CIO, whereas, as every automobile manufacturer knows, Reuther is to the Right only in the sense of being profoundly pro-democratic and anti-Communist ... Instead of backing the Non-Communist Left as the group in Europe closest to the American progressive faith in combining freedom· and planning, the CIO, for example, maintained a disturbing silence over foreign affairs; and altogether too many liberals followed Communist cues in rejoicing at every Soviet triumph and at every Socialist discomfiture. The Wallace Doctrine of non-interference with Soviet expansion prevailed in these years. In recent months, the conception of the non-Communist Left has made headway in the United States. On the moderate Right, men like Senator Vandenberg and John Foster Dulles have recognized its validity. The fight against Communist influence in the CIO, culminating in Walter Reuther's victory in the United Auto Workers and the discharge of Lee Pressman as CIO general counsel, has finally brought the CIO side by side with the AFL in support of the Third Force in Europe.\n\nSchlesinger was carefully noting the entrance of Pressman into national politics.\n\nPressman became a close adviser of Progressive Party 1948 presidential candidate Henry A. Wallace. In fact, when his former AAA boss Rexford Tugwell joined the Progressive Party campaign in early 1948, \"he did so on condition that Lee Pressman would serve as its secretary.\"\n\nIn March 1948, Pressman joined a 700-member national organization in support of Henry A. Wallace for U.S. president and Glen H. Taylor for U.S. vice president.\n\nBy June 1948, the \"New York Times\" cited him as \"general counsel\" for the \"National Labor Committee for Wallace.\"\n\nAt the party's convention (July 23–25, 1948), Pressman served on the committee (under Rexford Tugwell, who had helped create and directed the AAA back in the early 1930s) to create a platform that the \"New York Times\" summed up as \"endorsing Red foreign policy.\"\n\nAt the time, the \"Washington Post\" dubbed Pressman, Abt, and Calvin Benham \"Beanie\" Baldwin (C. B. Baldwin) as \"influential insiders\" and \"stage managers\" in the Wallace campaign. However, he was reportedly \"forced out because of his Communist line.\"\n\nDuring the 1948 convention, the \"New York Times\" described as follows:\n\nLee Pressman, who, for years, exerted a powerful left-wing influence as counsel for the CIO, is secretary of the Platform Committee, which will hold another executive session at 10 A. M. Friday before preparing its final draft for submission to the 2,500 delegates who are expected at the convention's closing session next Sunday.\n\nOn June 9, 1948, Pressman declared that he himself was running for public office as the candidate of the American Labor Party for U.S. Congress in the 14th District of New York (Brooklyn). He ran against Abraham J. Multer. Multer used Pressman's communist association against him early on by claiming that he had received his \"certificate of election\" from the \"Daily Worker\" (CPUSA newspaper), thanks to its condemnation of him. Meanwhile, he faced condemnation from New York state's CIO head Louis Hollander, who promised to oppose Pressman's candidacy.\n\nCommunist affiliation continued to hound Pressman's campaign. A month before the election, Pressman might have held out hope, as the \"New York Times\" characterized him as a lawyer of \"wide reputation\" and a man with a \"national reputation\" and did not mention allegations in Washington. Days before the election, headlines in the Brooklyn and New York area were still appearing, like this from the \"Brooklyn Daily Eagle\": \"Pressman: Candidate for Congress, Long Active in Pro-Red Groups.\"\n\nBetween 1948 and 1950, Pressman had represented \"the estates of persons with heirs in Russia\" of interest to the Soviets as well as affairs of AMTORG.\n\nBy 1951, Pressman had only one major client left, the Marine Engineers Beneficial Association (MEBA). Its president, Herbert Daggett, retained Pressman at $10,000 (some $94,000 adjusted for 2017).\n\nIn 1933, Pressman was one of the original members of the Ware Group. He was present at its earliest known meeting. Furthermore, surmised historian Allen Weinstein, as the \"top-ranking AAA official in the Ware Group,\" he was most likely also a top recruiter of new members. Weinstein also noted that, according to Gardner Jackson, Pressman had recommended that the Nye Committee take Alger Hiss on loan.\n\nIn 1935, he left the group and Washington, DC. Of his time there, Ware Group controller J. Peters said of Pressman that he was a \"big climber\" and had a \"bad case of 'big-shotitis'.\"\n\nIn 1936, when Pressman began work as general counsel for the CIO, Peters recommended against it, as Pressman was hard to control. However, Chambers encouraged him to take the position anyway.\n\nIn 1936–1937, Chambers put Pressman in touch with Philip Rosenbliett and \"Mack Moren\" to travel to Mexico and buy arms for \"J. Eckhart,\" a representative of the Loyalists in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nIn 1939, former underground Communist Whittaker Chambers privately identified Pressman to Assistant Secretary of State Adolf Berle as a member of a so-called \"Ware group\" of Communist government officials supplying information to the secret Soviet intelligence network.\n\nIn the 1940s, the FBI investigated Pressman and other Communists. On October 31, 1943, during a CIO convention in Philadelphia, the FBI recorded conversations of Roy Hudson, then CPUSA labor secretary. Hudson met with CIO union leaders (including Harry Bridges). On November 5, they heard identified the voice of a man whom Hudson instructed on Party demands for changes in the CIO platform: the name was Lee Pressman. Pressman's meetings continued with Hudson into September 1944.\n\nHistorian Robert H. Zieger held that Pressman was no longer a communist by the time he joined the CIO. Instead, he claimed that Pressman was important to the CIO because he \"retained close ties with the CPUSA.\"\n\nOn August 3, 1948, in testimony under subpoena before the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC), Chambers identified Pressman as a member of the Ware group.\n\nOn August 4, Pressman characterized Chambers' testimony as \"smearing me with the stale and lurid mouthings of a Republican exhibitionist who was bought by Henry Luce.\" By using Chambers, he claimed, HUAC sought to achieve three objectives: distract Americans from \"the real issues\" (civil rights, inflation, housing, Israel, and repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act), smear FDR's New Deal officials, and discredit Henry Wallace and his associates.\"\n\nOn August 20, 1948, in testimony under subpoena before the HUAC, Pressman declined to answer questions regarding Communist Party membership, citing grounds of potential self-incrimination.\n\nDuring the superheated political environment which surrounded the Korean War, Pressman seems to have stepped back from his previous communist affinities. In 1950, Pressman resigned from the American Labor Party because of \"Communist control of that organization,\" which was reported in the press and which signaled HUAC that Pressman was at last ready to talk.\n\nCalled again before Congress to give testimony on Communist Party activities, on August 28, 1950, Pressman reversed his previous decision to exercise his Fifth Amendment rights and gave testimony against his former comrades. Pressman stated:\n\nIn my desire to see the destruction of Hitlerism and an improvement in economic conditions here at home, I joined a Communist group in Washington, D. C, about 1934. My participation in such group extended for about a year, to the best of my recollection. I recall that about the latter part of 1935— the precise date I cannot recall, but it is a matter of public record — I left the Government service and left Washington to reenter the private practice of law in New York City. And at that time I discontinued any further participation in the group from that date until the present.\n\nPressman stated that he had no information about the political views of his former law school classmate Alger Hiss and specifically denied that Hiss was a participant in this Washington group.\n\nPressman indicated that in at least one meeting of his group, perhaps two, he had met Soviet intelligence agent J. Peters. Although Pressman made no mention of having himself conducted intelligence-gathering activities, his 1950 testimony provided the first corroboration of Chambers' allegation that a Washington, DC communist group around Ware existed, with federal officials Nathan Witt, John Abt and Charles Kramer named as members of this party cell.\n\nOn June 28, 1931, Pressman married the former Sophia Platnik. The couple had three daughters.\n\nHe was a member of the International Juridical Association (IJA) (\"probably through Shad Polier who was a classmate of mine at law school\"), the National Lawyers Guild (NLG), and the New York Bar Association. According to biographer Gilbert J. Gall, Pressman, Witt, and others formed the \"radical\" wing of the NLG against a more moderate, liberal wing lead by NLG president Morris Ernst (also co-founder of the American Civil Liberties Union).\n\nIn 1957, he stated during an interview:\n\nI don't think today's generation has nearly as exciting a life as we did when we were in our twenties, but I suppose it's the times. It seems to me that the labor movement with all the strength it has nowadays should be able to organize several million unorganized workers.\n\nPressman died at home at 26 Forster Avenue in Mt. Vernon, New York, on November 20, 1969. Sophia Platnik Pressman (Cornell '28) died on May 12, 1980, in Sandia Park, New Mexico.\n\n\"Showing men in power how to get things done legally\" was Pressman's special skill, asserts historian Gilbert J. Gall in a biography of Pressman.\n\nTIME magazine (never a friend of Pressman's) wrote at his death:\n\nDied. Lee Pressman, 63, the C.I.O.'s legal counsel from 1936 until 1948, when his far-left politics finally cost him his job and career; of cancer; in Mt. Vernon, N.Y. Pressman never made any bones about his Communist leanings, often supporting the Moscow line. Yet as a union lawyer he was tops; he played a major role in negotiating the original C.I.O. contracts with such industrial giants as U.S. Steel and General Motors, and ably fought labor cases before the Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1948, \"the first of a series of reports on Communists and Pro-Communists for Wallace\" summarized Pressman's role in both the CIO and the 1948 presidential campaign as follows:\n\nPressman's VENONA codename was \"Vig.\"\n\nIn 1946, VENONA reveals that Pressman hosted Mikhail Vavilov, first secretary in the Soviet embassy, at his home in Washington, DC, where he met fellow (former) Ware Group member Charles Kramer.\n\nIn 1948, Anatoly Gorsky, former chief of Soviet intelligence operations in the United States, listed Pressman, code-named \"Vig–Lee Pressman, former legal adviser of the Congress of Industrial Organizations\" among the Soviet sources likely to have been identified by US authorities, as a result of the defection of Soviet courier Elizabeth Bentley three years earlier.\n\nIn 1949, VENONA reveals that the KGB used Pressman to pay Victor Perlo for \"analysis.\" In 1950, it reported \"Vig–covering the activities of the Progressive Party.\" In 1951, Pressman served as \"conduit\" to pay funds to Harold Glasser.\n\nIn 1951, VENONA reveals that Soviet intelligence in Washington reported to Moscow, \"Vig has chosen to betray us.\"\n\nFollowing the fall of the Soviet Union, archival information on Soviet espionage activity in America began to emerge. Working in Soviet intelligence archives in the middle 1990s, Russian journalist Alexander Vassiliev discovered that Pressman, codenamed \"Vig,\" had told only fragments of the truth to Congressional inquisitors in 1950. Working with historians John Earl Haynes and Harvey Klehr, Vassiliev revealed that Pressman had actually remained \"part of the KGB's support network\" by providing legal aid and funneling financial support to exposed intelligence assets. As late as September 1949, Soviet intelligence had paid $250 through Pressman to Victor Perlo for an analysis of the American economic situation, followed by an additional $1000 in October.\n\nA 1951 Soviet intelligence report indicated that \"Vig\" had \"chosen to betray us,\" apparently a reference to his 1950 public statements and Congressional testimony. Historians Haynes, Klehr, and Vassiliev indicate that the assessment was an overstatement, however. With his carefully limited testimony before HUAC and in his unpublicized interviews with the Federal Bureau of Investigation it is instead charged that Pressman:\n\n... Sidestepped most of his knowledge of the early days of the Communist underground in Washington and his own involvement with Soviet intelligence, first with Chambers's GRU network in the 1930s and later with the KGB. He had never been the classic 'spy' who stole documents. Neither his work in domestically oriented New Deal agencies in the early 1930s nor his later role as a labor lawyer gave him access to information of Soviet interest. Instead, he functioned as part of the KGB espionage support network, assisting and facilitating its officers and agents. He gambled that there would not be anyone to contradict his evasions and that government investigators would not be able to charge him with perjury. He won his bet ...\n\nPressman left one posthumously published memoir, a microfiche transcript of a Columbia University oral history interview:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1225967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1225967", "title": "Lillie Hitchcock Coit", "text": "Lillie Hitchcock Coit\n\nLillie Hitchcock Coit (August 23, 1843 in West Point – July 22, 1929 in San Francisco) was a well-known patroness of San Francisco's volunteer firefighters and the benefactor for the construction of the Coit Tower in San Francisco.\n\nIn 1851, she moved to California from West Point with her parents - Charles, an Army doctor, and Martha Hitchcock.\n\n'Firebelle Lil' Coit was considered eccentric, smoking cigars and wearing trousers long before it was socially acceptable for women to do so. She was an avid gambler and often dressed like a man in order to gamble in the male-only establishments that dotted North Beach.\n\nAs a young woman, she traveled to Europe with her mother. After her return, she married Howard Coit, the \"caller\" of the San Francisco Stock Exchange during an economic boom. They separated in 1880, and he died in 1885 at age 47.\n\nCoit was fascinated by firefighters from a young age. At age 15, in 1858, she reportedly witnessed the Knickerbocker Engine Co. No. 5 respond to a fire call on Telegraph Hill when they were shorthanded, and helped them get up the hill ahead of other competing engine companies. Sources differ on whether this happened while she was coming home from school or coming from a rehearsal for a wedding. She was thereafter treated as a \"mascot\" of the firefighters, and after her return from travel in Europe, in October 1863, she was made an honorary member of the engine company. She then rode along with the firefighters when they went to a fire or were in parades, and attended their annual banquets. She continued this relationship with firefighting throughout her life, and after her death her ashes were placed into a mausoleum with a variety of firefighting-related memorials.\n\nCoit left one-third of her estate to the City of San Francisco \"to be expended in an appropriate manner for the purpose of adding to the beauty of the city which I have always loved\". The city used this bequest to build Coit Tower on Telegraph Hill.\n\nThe remainder of her bequest also sponsored another neighborhood landmark, a at the northwest corner of Washington Square Park.\n"}
{"id": "27096425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27096425", "title": "List of neo-Nazi organizations", "text": "List of neo-Nazi organizations\n\nThis is a list of neo-Nazi organizations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWorld Union of National Socialists\n"}
{"id": "16343705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16343705", "title": "List of vehicle speed records", "text": "List of vehicle speed records\n\nThe following is a list of speed records for various categories of vehicles. This list only presents the single greatest speed achieved in each broad record category; for more information on records under variations of test conditions, see the specific article for each record category. In any category, as with many world records, there may be some dispute over the criteria for a record-setting event, the authority of the organization certifying the record, and the actual speed achieved.\n\nAircraft speed records are based on airspeed, rather than ground speed.\n\n \n\nIn order to unambiguously express the speed of a spacecraft, a frame of reference must be specified. Typically, this frame will be fixed to the body with the largest gravitational influence on the spacecraft, as this is the most relevant frame for most purposes. Velocities in different frames of reference are not directly comparable; thus the matter of the \"fastest spacecraft\" depends on the reference frame. Because of the influence of gravity, maximum velocities are usually attained just after launch, at entry, or at time of closest approach to a massive body.\n\n"}
{"id": "9365595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9365595", "title": "Louisa Garrett Anderson", "text": "Louisa Garrett Anderson\n\nDr. Louisa Garrett Anderson, CBE (28 July 1873 – 15 November 1943) was a medical pioneer, a member of the Women's Social and Political Union, a suffragette, and social reformer. She was the daughter of the founding medical pioneer Elizabeth Garrett Anderson, whom she wrote a biography of in 1939. Louisa was the Chief Surgeon of the Women's Hospital Corps (WHC) and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine. Her aunt, Dame Millicent Fawcett, was a British suffragist. Louisa never married.\n\nShe was one of the three children of James George Skelton Anderson of the Orient Steamship Company co-owned by his uncle Arthur Anderson, and Elizabeth Garrett Anderson who was the first woman to qualify as a doctor, co-founder of the London School of Medicine for Women and Britain's first elected woman Mayor (of Aldeburgh).\n\nShe was educated at St Leonards School in St. Andrews, Fife and at the London School of Medicine for Women located at the Royal Free Hospital, where she worked as a doctor in private practice and hospitals.\n\nIn 1910 she made up a deputation with her mother Elizabeth Garrett Anderson and Alfred Caldecott who were allowed to put forward the case, for women to have the vote, to the Prime Minister. In 1912, she was imprisoned in Holloway, briefly, for her suffragette activities which included breaking a window by throwing a brick.\n\nIn the First World War she served in France with the Women's Hospital Corps. Along with her friend and colleague Dr. Flora Murray, she established military hospitals for the French Army in Paris and Wimereux. Their proposals were at first rejected by the British authorities, but eventually the WHC became established at the military hospital, Endell Street Military Hospital, Holborn, London staffed entirely by women, from chief surgeon to orderlies. She wrote many medical articles.\n\nShe is buried at the Holy Trinity Church with her partner and colleague, Dr. Flora Murray near to their home in Penn, Buckinghamshire. The inscription on her grave stone reads \"Louisa Garrett Anderson, C.B.E., M.D., Chief Surgeon Women's Hospital Corps 1914–1919. Daughter of James George Skelton Anderson and Elizabeth Garrett Anderson of Aldeburgh, Suffolk. Born 28th. July 1873, died November 15. 1943. We have been gloriously happy.\"\n\nThe archives of Louisa Garrett Anderson are held at The Women's Library at the Library of the London School of Economics, ref 7LGA.\n\nHer name and picture (and those of 58 other women's suffrage supporters) are on the plinth of the statue of Millicent Fawcett in Parliament Square, London, unveiled in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6010979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6010979", "title": "Mallaah", "text": "Mallaah\n\nThe Mallaah are the aboriginal traditional boatmen and fishermen tribes or communities of North India, East India, Northeastern India and Pakistan. A significant number of Mallah are also found in Nepal and Bangladesh. In the Indian state of Bihar, the term Nishad includes the Mallah and refers to communities whose traditional occupation centred on rivers.\n\nThe word \"mallaah\" is said to come from an Arabic word ملاح which means a motion of moving like bird’s wing. In Bengali the words \"majhi\" and \"mallah\" usually go together and refer to communities affiliated with the river and sea. Those of India are largely Hindu, with a small Muslim minority, while those of Pakistan are Muslim.\n\nPhoolan Devi belonged to the Mallah community.\n\nMany Mallaah are now cultivators, with a few now have also taken to other occupations. In Uttar Pradesh, they speak Khari boli, Awadhi and Hindi.The majority of the community are Hindu, although there are a small number of Muslim Mallah.\n\nIn Bihar, they are both cultivators and boatmen. They claim descent from the Hindu god Nisadh. The community is also known as Mandalji or Machua. They speak the Angika dialect of Hindi. The community consist of three sub-castes, the Dhoar, Parbattikurin, and Semeri.\n\nIn North India, the Mallaah have set up a caste association, the Akhil Bharitiya Nishad Sabha (the All India Nishad Association), which acts as a community welfare association..\n\nIn West Bengal and Orissa another sub-group of the Mallah community is present and they are known as Mahishya. This community is found mainly near the coastal region of the Bay of Bengal. They speak Bengalirivers and are Hindus.\n\nIn Sindh, the Mallaah are traditionally boatmen and fisherfolk, living along the inlets of the Indus delta. They speak Sindhi, and are close associated with Mohana tribe. The Mallaah are found mainly in the coastal districts of Thatta and Badin, and most are largely still fishermen. Many have seen their traditional areas of habitation washed away by the sea. The Indus Delta is also silting, which makes cultivation difficult. An important subsidiary occupation is animal husbandry, with the Mallaah raising cattle. Although living in close proximity to the Jath community, who customs are similar to the Mallaah, there is almost no intermarriage. The Mallaah community consists of a number of clans, referred to as \"nukh\", the largest Mallaah nukh being the Dablo.\n\nIn Punjab, the boatmen belong either to the Mallaah or Jhabel tribe. In south west Punjab, they are often regarded as a clan of Rajputs, and found mainly along the banks of the Indus. They extend as far north as Dera Ismail Khan District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where there settlements are found mainly along the banks of the Indus. In this region, many Mallaah are cultivators, and have given up their occupation as boatmen. They generally combine their specialized occupation of boat management with other occupations such as fishing and the growing of waternuts.\n\nIn neighbouring Punjab, the Mallaah are found mainly in the districts of Muzaffargarh, Dera Ghazi Khan, Rajanpur , Uch Sharief and Layyah, and said to be by origin Jhinwar. While Bahawalpur, the Mallaah, Mohana and Jhabel are said to have a common origin, with Mohana being fishermen, the Mallaah being boatmen and Jhabel being cultivators. The Mallah speak Seraiki, and are entirely Sunni. There are also Mallaah communities in the Hazara Division of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. They live along the banks of the Indus in the Haripur and Mansehra districts and speak Hindko, a dialect of Punjabi.\n"}
{"id": "35267978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35267978", "title": "Mangbai language", "text": "Mangbai language\n\nMangbai (Mamgbay, Mambai) is an Mbum language of northern Cameroon and southern Chad.\n"}
{"id": "51509904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51509904", "title": "Ministry of Digital Affairs", "text": "Ministry of Digital Affairs\n\nThe Ministry of Digital Affairs (Polish: \"Ministerstwo Cyfryzacji\") is a ministry of the Polish government founded in December 2015. Split from the Ministry of Administration and Digitization, the Ministry is responsible for matters regarding development in the cyber sphere for Poland. The first Minister of Digital Affairs was Anna Streżyńska. Since she was recalled on 9 January 2018, the Ministry is currently under personal supervision of the Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki.\n\nThe Ministry of Digital Affairs are to develop infrastructure related to broadband, to support the creation of web content in Poland and electronic services. It also promotes digital awareness among Polish citizens.\n\nThe Ministry is responsible for thirteen departments which help achieve the goals of the ministry.\n\n"}
{"id": "49444980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49444980", "title": "Mobile tower fraud", "text": "Mobile tower fraud\n\nMobile tower rental business offers are a new form of mass marketing fraud in India. These frauds are unique to the Indian subcontinent. \nMass-marketing fraud is defined as fraud committed via mass communication media using the telephone, mail, and the Internet.\n\"Mobile tower fraud\" may be defined as a type of mass marketing fraud with advance fee fraud characteristics, where the central scheme is the installation of a mobile tower in the victim's property. The victims are lured by the promise of huge rental income. Mobile tower fraudsters are targeting individuals of all ages and demographics. With the telecommunication infrastructure booming in India to meet the socioeconomic requirements of the country, mass marketing fraudsters have seen a criminal opportunity in it.\n\nIndia is a country with 29 states and 9 union territories spreading across 3,287,240 square km with a population of 1,028,737,436 and a wireless teledensity of 78.93. Mobile phones are being used as the prime tool for contacting the target victims, whereas the internet, print media, television are being used as media to communicate the schemes, business plan, goods and services to the targets by the mass market fraudster. India has seen the emergence of a new type of mass market fraud during the last few years. This mass market fraud centers on the installation of a mobile tower on property owned by the victim. On the basis of scheme, this fraud may be termed \"mass mobile tower fraud\". Fraudsters have used innovative and sophisticated techniques to get money from victims. This fraud is unique to the Indian subcontinent and it is not mentioned in any discussion of mass market fraud in any of the OFT, FTC, ABS, FBI or IMMFGW documents.\n\nIndia has a tremendous telecom growth potential and to meet the demand for mobile coverage in rural and urban area, and new mobile towers are being installed by the telecom companies. Mobile tower installation has given rise to new forms of business opportunities, i.e. the mobile tower rental business, because telecom companies can not own the land and space for every mobile tower. Hence, for a large number of mobile BTS, the telecom companies are taking privately owned space (vacant rooftop or vacant land) on rental basis from individuals, government offices and other tower companies. The owner of the space/property (rooftop or land) in turn gets a long-term assured monthly rental income from the telecom company. Sometime, the property owner also gets an employment opportunity, such as security guard or caretaker at the mobile tower. Thus, mobile tower renting has emerged as a golden business opportunity for property owners. Mass mobile tower fraudsters primarily uses print media, usually daily newspapers (English, Hindi and in regional languages local and National Dailies) as the initial method of contacting victims. Alternative initial communication media, such as SMS over mobile, direct telemarketing calls, and online free advisement classifieds websites are also being used by mass mobile tower fraud rings. The property owners who are willing to offer their land or rooftop space and are looking for such mobile tower rental business deals makes the telephonic contact with the telephone/mobile number published in the newspaper, online classified website or mentioned in SMS. Irrespective of the initial method of contacting victims, the mass mobile tower fraudsters then rely extensively on telephonic contact with a victim who had responded positively to the initial advertisement in any media. Mass mobile tower fraudsters take advantage of the human psyche and commit fraud by posing as legitimate and genuine mobile tower company.\n\nThe telecom infrastructure falls in the category of lifeline installations and BTS towers are a critical infrastructure for providing essential communication service. Companies who have been granted the Access Service License under section-4 of Indian Telegraph Act of 1885 and the companies which are registered as Infrastructure Providers under category IP-I are the only ones authorized to set up the mobile towers in country. The IP-I registered companies shall provide dark fibres, Right of Way, duct space and towers on lease, renting out, or on sale basis to the licensees of telecom services on mutually agreed terms and conditions. The access service providers can create the telecom infrastructure including telecommunication network and may provide the voice and non voice services to the customers. As of 15 December 2015, a total of 572 companies are registered under the IP-I category and 163 companies have been granted the access service license in 21 service areas.\nTo reduce the capital expenditure, IP-1 companies and access service providers are entering into direct lease agreement with the individual property owners. The employees or representatives of the telecom company negotiates with the property owners and obtains the lease right for installation of mobile tower on the vacant land or roof top. A telecom tower company agrees to pay the monthly rent to property owners and both are entered into a long term registered lessor–lessee contract. Sometimes, family members of property owners obtain indirect benefits, such as securing the job of caretaker or security guard of the mobile towers and electric connection from the tower. These indirect benefits are normally not the part of lease agreement or terms and conditions of the contract. The mobile tower rent contracts ensure a long term rental income to the lessor (i.e., property owner) wherein the lessee (i.e., telecom tower company) enjoys the usage right for the property and provide the mobile services in the area.\n\nThe modus operandi of the mass mobile tower fraudsters is as follows:\n\nThe fraudster uses the classified columns in print media (i.e. daily newspaper) for initial contact with the public. Some of the fraudsters have given advertisements in online classified websites and some send bulk SMS to the public. Advertisements are for seeking space for installation of mobile tower.\n\nThe fraudster uses the fake company name similar to the licensed telecom service provider and reputed Infrastructure Provider Company. Fraudsters are also seen to have their own website to prove their genuineness.\n\nFraudsters are not only using mobile numbers but also toll free numbers (1800) to communicate with prospective victims. The toll free number indicates those fraudsters are increasing their communication lines to handle mass callers at a time. Fraudsters are targeting mass audience through call centres.\n\nOnce the initial contact is made by a victim with fraudsters call centre, the fraudster start working on a script having different actors, like office staff, surveyor, engineer, advocate, government authorities, managing director and transporter. All actors play their role over mobile phones. Victims are asked to deposit small registration amount and to share the name, address and other information for installation of mobile tower. (\"Similar to Advance-fee scam\")\n\nIn the majority of cases, victims are first informed that a surveyor or engineer would visit their land for selection and if the land is selected, the No Objection Clearance will be taken from government authorities.\n\nIn order to make victim feel more lucky, the fraudster soon informs him that the survey of their land has been done through satellite or frequency technique and there is no need of physical survey of land. In some cases, the fraudster sends a conman to meet the victim to win victim's trust at this point. In the majority of the cases, the fraudster sends a bunch of papers ranging from a copy of the mobile tower agreement, terms and conditions, forged government documents like TRAI policy and No Objection certification, transportation papers and insurance papers. These papers have a common theme of deposition of advance government tax by the victim.\n\nThe various actors of fraudster ring interacts with the victim in such a fashion that victim feels that tower company is true and companies employee are working hard to get his tower file cleared from government authorities and the advance cheque will be released shortly. The actors of the fraud ring applies the time and pressures tactics on victim so that victim should deposit the money in the fraudsters account towards fictitious charges, such as government taxes, service tax, government registration charges or clearance charges.\n\nAs soon as the money is deposited in the fraudster's account, all actors in the fraudster ring change their mobile numbers or stop answering calls from the victims.\n\nThe strategies and techniques as proposed by the National Fraud Authority can be mapped with the mass mobile tower fraud techniques as follows:\n\nThe study reveals that there are large number of male victims, as India is a male-dominated society and thus their victimization risk is greater. \nThere is no significant urban rural divide between victims, although the urban victimization rate is bit higher. \nWith increasing age, the chances of victimization increases. The mean age of victims is 48 years. Elderly people are more susceptible to victimization. \nThe relationship between victimization and education reveals that people having higher education (postgraduate, graduate and diploma) are more prone to mass mobile tower fraud. The notion that illiterate and primary educated people are more prone to mobile tower fraud is incorrect. \nThe installation of mobile towers on victims' property is a source of additional income. The employment status of victims reveals that 29% of victims are working in private sector, 18% each are farmers and businesspeople, 13% are retired employees and 12% are unemployed. In rural areas, the farmers and unemployed are target whereas in urban there is a mix of employment sectors. \nVictim typology on the basis of financial loss reveals that there are 68% of small-scale victims who contribute only 28% of financial loss whereas the chronic victims are only 10% and contribute 47% of the loss.\n\nAll victims saw an opportunity for golden business venture in the advertisement being published by mobile tower fraudsters. The advertisement are so tempting that one can not ignore them. The fraudster offers huge tower rent in the range of to up to the tune of more than and a lifetime job. \nThere were several reasons for victims to get involved in it, such as weak financial condition, retirement settlement, surplus money and land, future planning for children, physical disability of self or dependency, unemployment, or business losses. Victims arranged the money through loan and borrowing, cash and bank savings, and provident funds. \nThe victims of mass mobile tower fraud can be mapped to the security weakness of \"the human elements\" suggested by Stajano & Wilson (2009). The greed and needs of the victims made them more vulnerable to the fraud. The victims were totally focused on mobile tower installation and distract them from protecting themselves from the fraudster. The victims who are sufficiently distracted by the prospect of unexpected financial gain by mobile tower are easily persuaded by fraudsters to send money for expenses like government tax, service tax and other charges, not realizing that the entire enterprise is fraudulent. The people can not decipher the right or wrong as fraudsters alter the perception of victim using their tricks. Victims under the guise of limited time are exploited by fraudsters to make decisions they would not otherwise make, and as a result victims pass the bucks to fraudsters. \nThe victims have suffered on account of financial loss, emotional impact including mental shock, loss of self-esteem and self-blame.\n\nThe geographic profiling of mass mobile tower reveals that the rapid growth of telecommunication, widespread use of mobile technology and ICT use in baking business and in print media offers fraudsters an opportunity to commit crime from a distance. Geographic profiling of mass mobile tower fraud reveals that the fraud is wide spread across the country. The majority of victims are from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.\nGeographic profiling reflects that mass mobile tower fraud are transnational/interstate crime and fraud. The frauds are committed from states other than the victim's state. All the victims of Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab and West Bengal are being duped use mobile connections belonging to other states. 78% of victims in Uttar Pradesh, 83% of victims in Tamil Nadu and 88% of victims in Rajasthan are duped using mobile connections belonging to other states. Geographic profiling reflects that the frauds are being perpetrated from the north Indian states and mainly Delhi. Delhi alone has 67% of fraudsters' mobile connections, whereas Uttar Pradesh has only 13% and Haryana 10%.\n\nThe police have not taken any action in their cases and the fraudsters are untraceable. In 95% of FIR, there was no action by police or the case is closed. The police are not able to trace the accused in majority of cases. A majority of victims did not report the case to the police, whereas in some cases police did not register the FIR on victim's complaint. In the majority of cases, the victim realizes very late that they have been a victim of fraud. Some of victims came to know after writing to the government ministers and authorities and by then, substantial time is lost for reporting the fraud. The police inaction in mass fraud cases also discourages the other victims to report the complaint to police. Victim perceives that police will not take any action. Many victims are reluctant to report the complaint due to guilt, as they blame themselves for the fraud. Some of the victims feel so ashamed that they even don't inform their family members about the fraud, and some victims fear that other people would laugh at them.\n\nSmall Amount and Mass Target is central to the crime and thus a victim who only deposits the registration amount make reporting less. \nThe victim's realization that the fraudster are sitting away from them and the only information which victim are having is the mobile number and bank account number of other states, also makes victims reluctant to report the fraud. \nThe police also do not take interest in fraud cases as the fraudsters are always located in other states. The only information available about the fraudster is the mobile phone and bank account numbers. In the majority of cases, their mobile number and bank accounts were obtained with the help of fake documents. Thus, due to difficulty in tracking a fraudster, the police loses the interest in mass mobile tower fraud cases. The complaint resolution by police in current study reveals a possibility that the police are not equipped to handle these cases and hence no action is taken in more than 90% of cases. The state police also do not have sufficient resources in other states to nab a criminal. State police need to seek prior permission or give an indication before conducting any operation in other states. The distance between the states (i.e. victim's state and offender's state) is an obstacle in the view of police in these crimes.\n\nSometimes victims are confused over to whom to report mobile tower fraud. It is evident from the fact that several victims wrote to the Prime Minister, Minister of Home Affairs, Finance Minister, Minister of Communication and IT, DOT, TRAI, banks etc. that the victims are directionless. The majority of victims feel that as the fraud concerns mobile towers, the Department of Telecommunications or TRAI should come to their rescue.\n\nPublic notices have been issued by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India on their website regarding mass mobile tower fraud. Telecom Enforcement, Resource and Monitoring Cells in Department of Telecommunications have also issued the public notice locally in various regional national newspapers on mass mobile tower fraud. TERM Cells are field units of Department of Telecommunications and representing the telegraph authority in the field. Government of India has set up 34 TERM Cells across India with TERM through their office located at 34 locations in India to cover all states and major cities in India. All complaints related to mobile tower fraud in the Department of Telecommunications are being sent for resolution to the respective TERM Cell located in the victim's state. TERM Cell Uttar Pradesh (West) has published the public awareness notice in past. All over India, TERM Cells in coordination with the Telecom Service providers have terminated the mobile numbers of the mobile tower fraudsters in past with objective to isolate the fraudsters from the public. TERM Cell UP (East) in coordination with Telecom Service Provider ran the fraud spread the Fraud Awareness campaign in 2013–14. Recently, the Department of Telecommunications, Government of India has instructed all the telecom service providers in the country and TERM Cells to initiate following actions on frauds related to installation of towers and seeking advance:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35318559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35318559", "title": "Moniga language", "text": "Moniga language\n\nMoniga, or Makhuwa-Moniga, is a Bantu language spoken by a quarter million Makua people in Mozambique. It is closely related to Cuabo.\n"}
{"id": "38335086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38335086", "title": "Muhammad ibn Zayd", "text": "Muhammad ibn Zayd\n\nAbu Abdallah Muḥammad ibn Zayd ibn Muḥammad ibn Ismā‘il ibn al-Ḥasan ibn Zayd (died 3 October 900), also known as al-Da‘ī al-ṣaghīr (\"the Younger Missionary\"), was an Alid who succeeded his brother, Hasan (\"the Elder Missionary\"), as ruler of the Zaydid dynasty of Tabaristan in 884. Little is known of his early life, before coming to Tabaristan after Hasan established Zaydid rule there in 864. He served his brother as a general and governor, and continued his policies after his accession. His reign was troubled by rebellions and wars, most notably by the invasion of Rafi' ibn Harthama in 889–892, which occupied most of his domains. After Rafi' fell out of favour with the Abbasids, Muhammad recovered his position and secured the allegiance of Rafi', but did not particularly support him against the Saffarids. In 900, following the Saffarids' defeat by the Samanids, he tried to invade Khurasan, but was defeated and died of his wounds, whereupon Tabaristan fell to the Samanids.\n\nMuhammad was the younger brother of Hasan ibn Zayd, an Alid who founded Zaydid rule over Tabaristan in 864. Nothing is known of his early life. Iranologist Wilferd Madelung speculates that the family lived in Iraq before coming to Tabaristan after Hasan's takeover of the province; Muhammad appears to have come to Tabaristan in 867. \n\nDuring Hasan's rule, Muhammad is mentioned as being captured by Ya'qub al-Saffar during the latter's 874 invasion, but released at Gurgan when Ya'qub withdrew in 876. After a brief visit to Tabaristan to see his mother, he returned to Gurgan as an assistant to Hasan's brother-in-law, Muhammad ibn Ibrahim. The Zaydids were expelled from Gurgan by the Tahirid general Ishaq al-Sari in spring 877, but soon recovered it. In 880, Muhammad also suppressed the rebellion of Rustam I, a member of the native Bavandid dynasty which ruled the mountains of eastern Tabaristan and opposed the Zaydids. He then suppressed a rebellion in Gurgan headed by another Alid, Hasan ibn Muhammad ibn Ja'far al-Aqiqi, and probably continued to govern the province in his brother's name until the latter's death on 6 January 884.\n\nDue to Muhammad's absence in Gurgan, upon Hasan's death power in Tabaristan was usurped by his brother-in-law, Abu'l-Husayn Ahmad ibn Muhammad, who proclaimed himself as the legitimate emir. Muhammad was prevented from returning to Tabaristan straight away by a mutiny by his Daylamite troops, and was able to regain control of Gurgan itself only through the aid of the former Tahirid general and now ruler of Khurasan, Rafi' ibn Harthama. Finally, in October 884 Muhammad was able to return to Tabaristan, seize the capital Amul, and behead the usurper. \n\nMuhammad assumed the same regnal name as his brother, al-Da‘ī ila‘l-Ḥaqq (\"He who summons to the Truth\"), and was known as al-Da‘ī al-ṣaghīr (\"the Younger Missionary\") in contrast to Hasan (\"al-Da‘ī al-kabīr\", \"the Elder Missionary\"). He is also found in some sources as al-Qa’im bi al-Ḥaqq (\"Upholder of the Truth\"). Muhammad now attacked Rustam, who had supported the usurper Ahmad, and drove him from his domains to seek refuge at the Saffarid court. With Saffarid mediation, Rustam was allowed to return.\nLike his brother, Muhammad tried to expand his domain by military means, and campaigns occupied a large part of his reign. In August 885 he tried to capture Rayy from its Turkish ruer Asategin, but was driven back. Rafi' ibn Harthama used the opportunity to occupy Gurgan, but Muhammad recovered control of the province as soon as Rafi' departed it. In 888 or 889, Muhammad again attacked Rustam, who now fled to Rafi' and sought his aid. Rafi' launched a major invasion of the Zaydid domains and conquered most of them, forcing Muhammad, like his brother before him, to seek shelter in the mountain fortresses of the western districts. Muhammad also gained the support of Jastan ibn Wahsudan, lord of Daylam. With his aid, Muhammad engaged in constant fighting with Rafi', but was unable to recover his realm. Eventually, Rafi' struck a peace with Jastan, and the Daylamites too withdrew. At this point, Muhammad's fortunes changed, with the accession of a new Caliph, al-Mu'tadid, on the Abbasid throne in 892. Fearful of Ibn Harthama's power, the Caliph stripped him of the governorship of Khurasan and gave it to his rival, the Saffarid Amr ibn al-Layth. In response, Rafi' concluded a peace with Muhammad, returned Tabaristan (but not Gurgan) to him and even pledged allegiance to the Zaydid cause. Muhammad re-entered Amul on 24 June 893. Despite their alliance, Muhammad refrained from aiding Rafi' in his wars with the Saffarids, and the two fell out and clashed again briefly when Muhammad tried to recover Sari as well. After their reconciliation, Rafi' even tortured and killed Muhammad's old adversary Rustam in 895, and in 896, when his forces briefly conquered Nishapur, the Friday prayer was read in Muhammad's name. Rafi' was killed shortly after by his rivals the Saffarids, whereupon Muhammad recovered Gurgan as well.\n\nIn 897, Muhammad provided refuge to Bakr ibn Abd al-Aziz, a scion of the deposed Dulafid dynasty of Isfahan. Initially, Muhammad received him with honours and even gave him the governorship of the towns of Chalus and Ruyan, but in 898 he had Bakr poisoned. In 900, the balance of power in the region changed abruptly with the defeat and death of the Saffarid Amr ibn al-Layth by the Samanids in April of that year. The Samanids now demanded the cession of Gurgan, while Muhammad was planning to exploit the turmoil and invade Khurasan himself. Muhammad and his army met with Samanid army under Muhammad ibn Harun al-Sarakhsi at Gurgan, and in the ensuing battle, the Samanids prevailed, and the severely wounded Muhammad was captured. He died on the next day, 3 October 900 (or in August, according to Abu'l-Faraj). His corpse was decapitated, and while his head was sent to the Samanid court at Bukhara, his body was buried at the gate of Gurgan. Within a short time, as al-Mas'udi reports, his tomb became a centre of pilgrimage.\n\nAs Muhammad's son and designated heir Zayd was also captured and sent to Bukhara, the Zaydid leaders agreed to name Zayd's infant son al-Mahdi as their ruler, but dissension broke out among their ranks: one of them proclaimed himself for the Abbasids instead, and his troops attacked and massacred the Zaydid supporters. Instead, the Samanids took over the province. The Samanid conquest brought along a restoration of Sunni Islam in the province, but the Shi'a cause was upheld and spread among the Daylamites and Gilanites by another Alid, Hasan al-Utrush, who in 914 managed to conquer Tabaristan and restore Zaydid rule.\n\nLike his brother, Muhammad espoused and promoted Zaydi Shi'ism and Mu'tazilism, while repressing Sunni opposition. This religious oppression, combined with their reliance on the Daylamite mountaineers, whose lack of discipline and barbarous behaviour were much resented by the populace, resulted in an estrangement of the mass of the people from Zaydid rule. Muhammad achieved some prominence among the Shi'ites by sponsoring the rebuilding of the shrine to Ali and his son Husayn after its destruction by the Abbasids, as well as by his liberal donations to other members of the Alid family across the Muslim world. Nevertheless, the later Zaydis do not consider either him or Hasan as legitimate imams.\n\nDespite his religious fervour, he does not seem to have been a resolute enemy of the Abbasids; according to a story, the Caliph al-Mu'tadid was saddened by Muhammad's death. Muhammad was also a cultured man, who appreciated good poetry and even composed poems of his own, of which only a few lines survive, recorded by al-Suli.\n\n"}
{"id": "25803948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25803948", "title": "Outpost (military)", "text": "Outpost (military)\n\nA military outpost is detachment of troops stationed at a distance from the main force or formation, usually at a station in a remote or sparsely populated location, positioned to stand guard against unauthorized intrusions and surprise attacks; and the station occupied by such troops, usually a small military base or settlement in an outlying frontier, limit, political boundary or in another country. Outposts can also be called miniature military bases based on size and number of troops it houses. \n\nMilitary outposts, more recently referred to as combat outposts (COPs), served as a cornerstone of counterinsurgency doctrine in Iraq and Afghanistan. These permanent or semi-permanent structures, often located in or near populated areas, enabled military forces to secure key lines of communication or infrastructure, secure and co-opt the populace, assist the government in restoring essential services, and force insurgents to operate elsewhere. Combat Outposts were almost unanimously described in positive terms by defense analysts and military officers as a means through which to carry out its counterinsurgency efforts. \n\n"}
{"id": "52736870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52736870", "title": "Penangite Chinese", "text": "Penangite Chinese\n\nPenangite Chinese are Malaysians of full or partial Chinese ancestry who either hail from or live within the State of Penang. , nearly 40% of Penang's population were of Chinese ethnicity, making the Chinese the second largest ethnic community within the state.\n\nMost are the descendants of labourers and immigrants from southern China who moved to the Malay Peninsula between the 18th and 20th centuries. By the mid-19th century, George Town, the capital city of Penang, was home to a significant Peranakan community, also known as the \"King's Chinese\" due to their loyalty to the British crown. Under British colonial rule, Penang continued to experience increasing Chinese immigration throughout the 19th century. As most Chinese in Penang came from Fujian Province, home to the Hokkien dialect, Penang Hokkien was gradually developed and is now widely used by Penangites for daily communication.\n\nPenang's Chinese have been well-represented within Malaysia and also internationally in various professional, political, economic and other fields. To date, Penang is the only state in Malaysia where the position of the Chief Minister, who leads the state government, has been continuously held by an ethnic Chinese since independence. Renowned figures, including Jimmy Choo and Nicol David, hailed from Penang and have contributed greatly in raising the country's profile internationally.\n\nIn Mandarin, Penangite Chinese clearly distinguish themselves as full Chinese ( , , \"Huárén\") rather than overseas Chinese ( , , \"Huáyì\"; , , \"Huáqiáo\"). Similarly, Penangite Chinese typically refer to themselves as \"Tn̂g-lâng\" in Penang Hokkien. In English parlance within Penang, Penangite Chinese are simply referred to as \"Chinese\".\n\nChinese sailors had explored the seas off Penang Island as early as the 15th century. During the Ming Dynasty, Chinese seafarers led by Admiral Zheng He sailed the length of the Malacca Straits; Penang Island may have appeared in the \"Nautical Charts of Zheng He\".\n\nHowever, it was only sometime in the 18th century when the Chinese began to arrive on Penang Island. It was recorded that the fishing village of Tanjung Tokong on the northern coast of the island was founded by Zhang Li, a sailor whose arrival on Penang Island preceded that of Captain Francis Light by at least a few decades.\n\nAfter the British East India Company under Captain Francis Light founded George Town in 1786, ethnic Chinese began to move to Penang in increasing numbers. In particular, the Peranakans, who already had established themselves along the western coast of the Malay Peninsula, shifted to Penang. This, coupled with the greater number of newer immigrants from China throughout the 19th century, effectively made the Chinese the largest ethnic group in Penang by the 1850s.\n\nAt the time, there were differences between the Straits Chinese, a term which included the Peranakans, and the new Chinese arrivals, known as \"Sinkeh\" (新客; New Guest). Having resided for generations within the Malay Peninsula, the Straits Chinese typically spoke a creole consisting of Hokkien and Malay, which gradually grew into Penang Hokkien. The Peranakans had also developed a distinct hybrid culture infusing Malay and Chinese influences, and were more loyal to the British crown than the Chinese mainland, thus earning the sobriquet, the \"'King's Chinese\"'. On the other hand, most of the newer China-born \"\"Sinkeh\" started off penniless and held onto their Chinese roots more strongly. Whereas the Straits Chinese were more anglophile due to the English education system in Penang, the China-born \"Sinkeh\" would go on to form the first Chinese schools in Penang.\n\nAs Penang grew into a major entrepôt towards the end of the 19th century, the influx of various cultures and religions would create a melting pot where the multi-ethnic and multi-religious society could exist in harmony. Similarly, over time, the newer Chinese arrivals became acculturated to the existing local culture and customs due to intermarriages between the Peranakans and the \"Sinkeh\"\". At the turn of the century, the Chinese nationalist Sun Yat-sen's campaigns to liberate China from imperial Manchu rule attracted considerable financial support from Penang's Chinese population.\n\nDuring World War II, ethnic Chinese in Penang suffered brutal and often violent treatment in the hands of the occupying Imperial Japanese Army. The Japanese implemented a policy known as \"Sook Ching\", a systematic purge of perceived hostile elements, including the Chinese. Thousands of Chinese were massacred and buried in unmarked mass graves throughout Penang during the Japanese occupation period.\n\nOut of the nearly 700,000 Penangite Chinese, most are concentrated on Penang Island, particularly within and around the city of George Town.\n\nEthnic Chinese constitute the plurality of Penang Island's population; the 2010 Malaysian Census indicated that about 53% of Penang Island's inhabitants were of Chinese descent. On the island, more Chinese reside within the Northeastern District, where George Town is situated, compared to the less-populated Southwestern District.\n\nThe Chinese also accounted for 34.2% of the population in Seberang Perai, the mainland halve of the State of Penang. They most commonly reside within the Central and Southern districts, forming a visible majority in the towns within these districts, such as Bukit Mertajam, Batu Kawan and Nibong Tebal.\nAccording to the 2010 Malaysian Census, up to 63.9% of Penang's Chinese population spoke Hokkien as their mother tongue. This figure likely included those with Peranakan ancestry. The second largest Chinese linguistic group in Penang was the Teochews, constituting 17.8% of Penang's Chinese community, followed by the Cantonese at 8.3%. There were also smaller Hakka and Hainanese communities throughout Penang. \nThe resulting ubiquitous use of Hokkien has made Penang Hokkien the \"lingua franca\" among Penangites. Penang Hokkien, which originated from a subdialect of Zhengzhou Hokkien, incorporated several Malay and English terms over the centuries, eventually evolving into a distinct Hokkien dialect used mainly in northern Malaysia. Uniquely for Penang, this localised Hokkien creole is spoken by many Penangites regardless of race for daily communication, so much so that even local police officers also take courses in Penang Hokkien. More recently, Penang Hokkien has also been popularised in mass media, particularly through books, dictionaries and movies, due in part to the desire to maintain the dialect's relevance in the face of increasing influence of Mandarin and English amongst the younger generations.\n\nBesides Penang Hokkien and Mandarin, the latter of which has been used as a medium of instruction in Chinese schools in Penang, Cantonese, Teochew and Hakka are spoken by smaller numbers of Chinese as well. In general, these communities arrived in Penang after the Hokkiens had already established themselves within the colony in the early 19th century. The Cantonese and Hakka communities, in particular, would go on to predominate parts of George Town towards the end of the 19th century, while a significant number of Teochews were also employed in the agricultural industries within the then Province Wellesley (now Seberang Perai). To this day, many of the Teochews continue to reside in the towns of Seberang Perai, such as Butterworth, Bukit Mertajam and Batu Kawan.\n\nIn addition, all Penangites are conversant with Malay, the national language of Malaysia, as the language is made compulsory in all schools in Penang. A legacy of British rule is the existence of several English and missionary schools throughout Penang, which also contributes to the relatively high level of English proficiency among Penangites.\n\nAlong with other races, the Chinese have greatly influenced Penang's street cuisine, one of the more famous culinary styles in Southeast Asia. Penang is famous for its variants of Chinese dishes, including \"char kuey teow\", \"Hokkien mee\" and \"chee cheong fun\". These are in addition to the famous \"asam laksa\", a local variant of the Peranakan fusion dish, which was ranked 7th in CNN's list of the world's 50 best dishes.\n\nSome of the major Chinese cultural celebrations in Penang include the Chinese New Year, Lantern Festival, and Mid-Autumn Festival.\n\nThe largest of all is the Chinese New Year, which includes a number of festivities and observances which are unique to Penang. For instance, the Jade Emperor's Birthday, also known colloquially as the \"Hokkien New Year\", falls on the 8th day of Chinese New Year and is widely observed in Penang. Chinese New Year festivities in Penang also include the traditional lighting up of the iconic Kek Lok Si Temple, a 'fire watching' ceremony in the Snake Temple and open houses by several ornate Chinese clan houses within George Town's UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nWesak Day is celebrated by the Buddhists with a massive procession by Buddhist associations and temples based in Penang, with floats depicting both Mahayana and Theravada strains. The Taoists observe Qing Ming and the Hungry Ghost Festival, both to honour their departed relatives and friends. The Christians, meanwhile, observe Christmas and Easter, with the Catholics also observing the Saint Anne's Novena for 10 days at the St. Anne's Church in Bukit Mertajam.\n\nChingay parades were said to have originated in Penang in the early 20th century, before spreading to the rest of Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore. The Penang variant of the Chingay parade includes a giant flag balancing act on one's forehead.\n\nSince the 1950s, an annual Chingay parade has been held within the city of George Town every December, in a bid to retain this unique cultural practice.\n\nMost Penangite Chinese today either go to a Chinese school, a national school (\"Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan\", or \"SMK\") or a missionary school. In recent years, international schools, which traditionally cater to Penang's expatriate community, are also increasingly popular among Penangites themselves.\n\nAs a result, Penangite Chinese are multilingual, with the ability to converse in Malay, English and either Mandarin or another Chinese dialect (typically the individual's mother tongue). Due to the strong English education system that was established by the British in Penang, many Penangites, especially those who went to missionary schools, are able to maintain at least a reasonable command of English. Mandarin has also been increasingly used by the younger generations, as it is the medium of instruction in Chinese schools throughout the state.\n\nGeorge Town served as the nucleus of Malaysia's Chinese education system, when in 1904, Chung Hwa Confucian School was established. It was the first Chinese school to be built in British Malaya, as well as the first to use Mandarin as its medium of instruction.\n\nTo this day, Chinese schools in Penang maintain a reputation for academic excellence. The Chinese secondary schools in Penang, both public and private, are as listed below.\n\nThe list includes Penangites of partial Chinese descent.\n\n"}
{"id": "13715009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13715009", "title": "Politics of country subdivisions", "text": "Politics of country subdivisions\n\nThis list summarises the country subdivisions which have a separate article on their politics. Countries where significant powers delegated to federal units or to devolved governments and where the political system is multi-party democracy are more likely to have articles on the politics of their subdivisions.\n\nEntities listed in the article List of countries are shows in the article Politics of present-day nations and states.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1498759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1498759", "title": "Ramsey problem", "text": "Ramsey problem\n\nThe Ramsey problem, or Ramsey–Boiteux pricing, is a Second best policy problem concerning what price a public monopolist or a firm faced with an irremovable revenue constraint should set, in order to maximize social welfare. A closely related problem arises in relation to optimal taxation of commodities. \n\nIn a First best world, the optimal solution would be to use prices equal to marginal cost and charge an optimal lump-sum charge that would cover the fixed cost or revenue requirement. Nevertheless, this is usually impossible to implement, thus price distortion is inevitable.\n\nThis principle is applicable to pricing of goods that the government is the sole supplier of (public utilities) or regulation of natural monopolies, such as telecommunications firms. It is also applicable to situations where there is perfect competition in the private sector, but the government needs to distort the prices of the goods it provides in order to break even, or to earn a profit. In this case the \"constraint\" is that the revenue requirement cannot be covered by a lump-sum tax, so prices must be distorted.\n\nFor any monopoly, the price markup should be inverse to the price elasticity of demand: the more elastic demand for the product, the smaller the price markup. Frank P. Ramsey found such a result in 1927 in the context of taxation. The rule was later applied by (1956) to natural monopolies (decreasing mean cost): a natural monopoly experiences profit losses if it is forced to fix its output price at the marginal cost, subject to Economies of Scale being exhausted. Hence the Ramsey–Boiteux pricing consists into maximizing the total welfare under the condition of non-negative profit, that is, zero profit. In the Ramsey–Boiteux pricing, the markup of each commodity is also inversely proportional to the elasticities of demand but it is smaller as the inverse elasticity of demand is multiplied by a constant lower than 1.\n\nRamsey pricing is sometimes consistent with a government’s objectives because Ramsey pricing is economically efficient in the sense that it can maximize welfare under certain circumstances. There are, however, problems with Ramsey pricing. A profit-maximizing operator will choose Ramsey prices only if all markets are equally monopolistic or equally competitive. If markets are not equally monopolistic or competitive, then the regulator has an interest in ensuring that the extent to which the operator can use Ramsey pricing is limited to groups of services that are subject to similar degrees of competition. Regulators typically do this by forming groups of services that are subject to similar degrees of competition and allowing the operator price flexibility within each service group.\n\nEven though Ramsey pricing can be economically efficient, it may not be consistent with the government’s goal of providing affordable service to the poor and the rate by which prices change to achieve Ramsey-efficient prices may not be consistent with political sustainability. As a result of these two concerns, the regulator sometimes limits the operator’s ability to pursue Ramsey pricing within a service group. In the case of services to the poor, the regulator may place upper limits on the prices. In the case of services where traditional prices were different from Ramsey prices, there are equity issues in changing from the traditional pricing structure to a new structure, even if the new structure would be more efficient in an aggregate sense. In such situations, the regulator may impose pricing restrictions that prevent Ramsey pricing or that impose a slower transition to Ramsey pricing than the operator would choose left to its own devices.\n\nLastly, regulators often note that Ramsey pricing is a form of price discrimination—although not necessarily a bad form of price discrimination—and customers sometimes object to it on that basis. The public sometimes believes that it is unfair to cause one type of customer to pay a greater mark-up above marginal cost than another type of customer. In such situations regulators may further limit an operator’s ability to adopt Ramsey prices.\n\nPractical issues exist with attempts to use Ramsey pricing for setting utility prices. It may be difficult to obtain data on different price elasticities for different customer groups. Also, some customers with relatively inelastic demands may acquire a strong incentive to seek alternatives if charged higher markups, thus undermining the method. Politically, customers with relatively inelastic demands may also be considered as those for whom the service is more necessary or vital; charging them greater markups can be challenged as unfair. Crucially, many economists deny this, considering less vital services as unnecessary depending on its price elasticity of demand.\n\nA formal presentation was given by Ramsey in a journal article titled: \"A Contribution to the Theory of Taxation\". The mathematical derivation follows: \n\nConsider the problem of a regulator seeking to set prices formula_1 for a multi-product monopolist with costs formula_2 where formula_3 is the output of good \"n\" and formula_4 is the price. Suppose that the products are sold in separate markets (this is commonly the case) so demands are independent, and demand for good \"n\" is formula_5 with inverse demand function formula_6 Total revenue is formula_7\n\nTotal welfare is given by\n\nThe problem is to maximize formula_9 subject to the requirement that profit formula_10 should be equal to some fixed value formula_11. Typically, the fixed value is zero to guarantee that the profit losses are eliminated.\n\nThis problem may be solved using the Lagrange multiplier technique to yield the optimal output values, and backing out the optimal prices. The first order conditions on formula_13 are\n\nwhere formula_15 is a Lagrange multiplier, \"C\"(q) is the partial derivative of \"C\"(q) with respect to \"q\", evaluated at q, and formula_16 is the elasticity of demand for good formula_17\n\nDividing by formula_18 and rearranging yields\n\nwhere formula_20. That is, the price margin compared to marginal cost for good formula_21 is again inversely proportional to the elasticity of demand. Note, the Ramsey mark-up is smaller than the ordinary monopoly where formula_22, since formula_23 (the fixed profit requirement, formula_24 is non-binding). The Ramsey-price setting monopoly is in a second-best equilibrium, between ordinary monopoly and perfect competition.\n\nAn easier way to solve this problem in a two-output context is the Ramsey condition. According to Ramsey, as to minimize deadweight losses, one must increase prices to rigid and elastic demands in the same proportion, in relation to the prices that would be charged at the first-best solution (price equal to marginal cost).\n\n"}
{"id": "17682450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17682450", "title": "Robert H. Birch", "text": "Robert H. Birch\n\nRobert H. \"Three-Fingered\" Birch, born Robert Henry Birch (c. 1827 – c. 1866), was a 19th-century American adventurer, criminal, soldier, lawman, postmaster, and prospector. He was a member of the infamous \"Banditti of the Prairie\" in his youth, whose involvement in the torture-murder of Colonel George Davenport in 1845 led to his turning state's evidence against his co-conspirators. Birch was also, the discoverer of the Pinos Altos gold mine with Jacob Snively and James W. Hicks. During the American Civil War, he served in the American Southwest with the Confederate forces of the Arizona Rangers and 2nd Texas Cavalry.\n\nRobert Birch claimed to have been born in New York, but amateur detective, Edward Bonney alleged, that Birch's father, John \"Old Coon\" Birch, Sr., stated, in their home, which was nine miles southwest of Marshall, in Clark County, Illinois, that Robert had been born in North Carolina. Birch had moved with his father and his two brothers, John, Jr. and Timothy, to Illinois, as a child.\n\nRobert Birch became involved in crime, as a teenager, being described by Bonney, as \"suspected of robbery and even of murder ever since he had attained the age of fifteen\". Robert Birch was a close associate of bandit, William Fox, as both were considered notorious \"prairie pirates\" and longtime members of what were called the Banditti of the Prairie. Birch was a self-styled Mormon, who conveniently, used his church membership, as a Latter Day Saint, to gain protection in Nauvoo, Illinois, when the law was hot on his trail.\n\nRobert Birch, may have had ties to Tennessee outlaw, John A. Murrell and his Mystic Clan, using a number of criminal aliases including; Robert Harris, R. Harris, R. Haris, Haris, Owin, Haines, Gains, Thomas Brown, Tom Brown, Robert Blecher, R. H. Blecher. But, this claim does not hold up to scrutiny, as Birch would have been only seven years old, in 1834, when Murrell was arrested and began serving his ten-year prison sentence. Robert Birch, more likely, might have had older relatives, such as his father, uncles, or cousins, who were on the Mystic Clan's membership rolls in the U.S. Southern states or were connected to outlaws who were Murrell associates. After the demise of Murrell, many of the members of the future \"Banditti\" were driven out of \"The South\" and to avoid arrest, execution, or death at the hands of regulators and moved farther north, relocating their criminal activities in the still, lawless, frontier of the Middle West, mainly in the states of Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio.\n\nRobert Birch, when he was 18 years old was alleged, by James Henry Tevis, of being involved in the torture-murder of Colonel George Davenport, at his home, on July 4, 1845.\nRobert Birch was one, of several members, later, identified by Edward Bonney, who had infiltrated the gang as a bogus counterfeiter. Ironically, three years earlier, Bonney had been arrested and charged with counterfeiting in Indiana but, escaped before his conviction. Birch was soon apprehended, in part to information from Bonney, and he soon agreed to testify against the others in exchange for a reduced sentence. Granville Young and brothers, John and Aaron Long were later, executed for the murder. After several court delays, Robert Birch broke out of jail, through outside help or bribery, in Knoxville, Illinois, March 22, 1847.\n\nDisappearing into the frontier, of the Midwest United States, Robert Birch resurfaced, almost, a decade later, a reformed, honest man and an associate of Jacob Snively, the founder of Arizona's first gold rush boom town Gila City, and became the first postmaster on December 24, 1858. Two years later, Birch followed Snively and James W. Hicks to the New Mexico Territory where they discovered gold deposits on Bear Creek. A mining camp soon sprang up around the claim, on the site of what is today the ghost town of Pinos Altos, and was originally named Birchville in his honor.\n\nWhen the Confederate Army invaded the territory of New Mexico, at the start of the American Civil War, they created the Confederate Territory of Arizona Robert Birch possibly because of his southern family leanings volunteered for military service. He initially served with Company A, Arizona Rangers under 2nd Lieutenant James Henry Tevis however, according to Tevis, Birch asked to be transferred to Colonel John Salmon Ford's Second Texas Cavalry on the Rio Grande.\n\nRobert Birch died in 1866, in Arizona Territory, present-day Arizona.\n\n"}
{"id": "23778299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23778299", "title": "Sindhi-Sipahi", "text": "Sindhi-Sipahi\n\nThe Sindh-Sipahi (Sindhi: سنڌي سپاهی ) () are a Muslim community found in the province of Sindh in Pakistan and state of Rajasthan in India.\n\nThe Sindh-Sipahi originally belonged to the family of Chandravanshi Rajputs. They are said to have converted to Islam, at the time of the conquest of Sindh by the Arabs, around 8th Century A.D. The Sindhi Sipahi form a large part of the Muslim Rajputs population of Marwar and Mewar. According to their traditions, they were Chauhan and Bhati Rajputs who converted to Islam in the Middle Ages. They are concentrated in Mallani, Sheo, Sanchor in Marwar and in Udaipur.\n\nThey are sub-divided into various tribes. They have a common origin with the Sindhi Rajput tribes of Pakistan.\n\nThe community are now mainly settled agriculturist, although many are still herdsmen. Many of their villages are situated in the Thar Desert, and are affected by environmental changes. They have their own Panchayat (community council), which deals with disputes within the community. The community are Sunni Hanafi Muslims, and speak the Marwari and Mewari dialects of Rajasthani, Sindhi and Urdu.\n\nThe Sindh-Sipahi were initially settled in Tharparkar and Sanghar districts of Sindh. But now a majority of them resides in Karachi, Hyderabad, Shahdadpur, Mirpur Khas & Sukkur. They are found mainly in the western districts of Rajasthan state, such as Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Barmer and Jodhpur.\n\n"}
{"id": "53888573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53888573", "title": "Soviet Middle Eastern foreign policy during the Cold War", "text": "Soviet Middle Eastern foreign policy during the Cold War\n\nThe Soviet Union used its relationship with Europe to gain economic cooperation with the Arab world during the Cold War and its influence in the Middle East by inciting proxy conflicts between the Arab states and their Jewish neighbors. The superpowers interacted with proxy combatants, which factored into the Soviet Union's omission from the Camp David Accords. The policy exposed Soviet dualism; while aiming to reduce their military budget and improve their image on the world stage, they pursued an anti-Israel policy in the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nThe Middle East went from an afterthought of the United Nations Security Council to its main focus, despite the Arab nations lacking a lobby and only having the regional Arab League to mediate disputes. The Soviets could enter the region by appealing to the working class, most of the region's population.\n\nThe interconnection of religion, nationalism and petroleum played a part in the growing divide between the Arabs and the Soviets. As Arab nationalism gained in popularity, Islam moved to the forefront as a unifier against Israel and the West. All three were the basis for the creation of OPEC and the modern Arab world, which led to a growing Arab distrust of outside influence. Religion was a binding factor of the Arabs and their states, as Christianity joins the West in times of social and political unrest. When the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan, the Arabs were uncertain of Soviet intentions since the Soviets invaded to bolster the Afghan Communist Party (whose attempted coup was failing). Oil affects world politics; the creation of OPEC led to Arab stability, moving them beyond the communist or capitalist spheres. This fence-sitting allowed the Arabs to gain economic power over the West and the Soviets, while losing nothing.\n\nThe relationship between the USSR and the Middle East focused on its rivalry with the Turks, mistrust of the Persians, and the Afghan conflict. Under Nikita Khrushchev, the Soviets were inconsistent in their Middle Eastern policies and mistrusted by the Arabs. The Arabs viewed the Soviets as anti-imperialistic (since the Russian Revolution overthrew the Russian monarchy) and, after Arab setbacks following the Arab-Israeli wars, as bureaucrats concerned solely with Soviet interests. Soviet inconsistency and their weapon inferiority to the West were the main reasons for the Arabs distancing themselves from Moscow and returning to the West. The Soviets tried to slow (if not halt) the flow of Arab petroleum to the West. After the Six-Day War, the Soviet Union became a major player in the Middle East as its proxy countries dragged it deeper into Mideast political intrigue. The Soviets provided continued support to their Arab allies in their struggle with Israel. Moscow's policy changed after the Yom Kippur War as it used its client states to act out aggression toward the West in the Iran–Iraq War. The Soviets were a strongman in the Middle East, interceding to maintain tensions as a distraction to the West. Soviet foreign policy in the Middle East emphasized the Arab nations and their interaction with the West. Moscow had little use for the region except to distract Washington from Berlin early in the Cold War. John S. Badeau wrote about the background of Soviet-American relations with the Arabs after World War II in \"Proceedings of the Academy of Political Science\".\n\nThe Soviet policy of favoring one Arab group often drove the others towards the West. Increased Soviet favoritism towards Iraq and Syria pushed Egypt and Saudi Arabia (former Soviet allies) back towards the West. The Soviets used a stick-and-carrot approach to persuade the Arabs into joining their sphere of influence, although the Arab League maintained closer ties with religion. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan severely reduced their popularity and credibility in the Arab world. Although Moscow initially reaped rewards from its involvement in the Arab world, it lost diplomatic trust through its missteps and lackluster policies. In addition to their invasion of Afghanistan, their most notable mistake was to initially support both Iran and Iraq during their early-1980s war before only supporting Iran. This cost Iran the diplomatic respect of the Arab nations, pushing it further towards the West.\n\nThe Arab world dealt with social tensions through conflict, which the Soviets used to drive wedges between the Arabs and the West. The Middle East (the birthplace of Islam, Judaism, and Christianity) is a key supplyier of petroleum. Arab nationalism affected relations between Iran and the rest of the Arab world; unlike the other Arab countries, it was not colonized by the Western powers (who viewed it as a buffer state with the Soviet Union) after the breakup of the Ottoman Empire following World War I and saw itself as equal to the Europeans. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan created further tension with its support of fledgling Communist regimes while attacking an Islamic nation.\n\nShuttle diplomacy was instrumental in brokering a Middle Eastern peace. U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger spent considerable time at Middle Eastern peace talks as a neutral party. He explained the reasons behind the need to pull out of Vietnam, which complicated the Middle Eastern talks and the nascent nuclear-nonproliferation-treaty talks. President Richard Nixon used the Sino-Soviet split to begin ending the Cold War by breaking down political and economic barriers between the U.S. and China, further isolated the Soviets. Kissinger spoke about his roles in brokering peace between the Arabs and Israelis and ending the nuclear-arms race. Nixon also became a key player in Middle East peace talks, ignoring Dwight D. Eisenhower's non-interventionism and hoping that his reputation for ending the Vietnam War, brokering the first nuclear-arms treaty and opening China to American trade would overshadow the Watergate scandal.\n\nThe Arab-Israeli peace process was complex during the Soviet era. Although the Soviets were reluctant to join the American-backed peace movement (since they wanted a divided West), the cost of the arms race was beginning to bankrupt the Soviet Union. Strained relations among the parties stalled the initial negotiations, exacerbated by American-North Vietnamese peace negotiations. Moscow was limited in the peace talks because it did not recognize Israel diplomatically, which enabled the United States to talk to both sides.\n\nThe U.S. responded to Soviet influence in the Middle East after the Camp David Accords by using economic sanctions to influence the Arab world. Geopolitics transitioned from post-Cold War polarization to 21st-century regional conflicts. The lack of two superpowers destabilized the Middle East as pressure-relieving, limited proxy conflicts grew into greater conflicts which spawned genocide.\n"}
{"id": "23610844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23610844", "title": "State trading enterprises", "text": "State trading enterprises\n\nState trading enterprises are enterprises authorized to engage in trade (exporting and/or importing) that are owned, sanctioned, or otherwise supported by government. STEs are legitimate trading entities and are subject to GATT rules. Examples include the Canadian Wheat Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and historically, the New Zealand Dairy Board in New Zealand. \n\nHistorically the Milk Marketing Board operated in the UK and along with WTO free trade movements has been dissolved. An operating State Trading Organization exists in the Maldives.\n\nSome U.S. agricultural producers think, however, that STEs through their exercise of monopoly power and government support may distort trade in their respective commodities.\n\n"}
{"id": "55193111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55193111", "title": "Surinamese people in Belgium", "text": "Surinamese people in Belgium\n\nThe exact number of Surinamese people in Belgium is unknown. The (legal) Surinamese community in the Belgian capital is in any case very small: In 2015, only two Surinamese women were enrolled in Brussels along with a number of men); in 2012 this was only one. According to figures quoted \"in the corridors\" of the Surinamese Embassy in Belgium, the total number of Surinamese people in Belgium would be about 30,000, or at least 20,000. According to the diaspora organisation Suriname Diaspora Solidarity Belgium (Surisobe), half of them are illegally present in the country. However, it is not known how Surisobe calculated this number. In October 2016, the embassy indicated that more precise figures are now being mapped out.\n\nSome of the Surinamese people in Belgium use the so-called \"Belgian route\": they come and live in Belgium with their Dutch partner to circumvent the stricter rules on family reunification in the Netherlands. Their stay in the country is therefore only temporary.\n\nThere have been repeated incidents involving Surinamese people in Belgium in drug trafficking to the country. From 1990-1991, a group of Surinamese people with ties to the Surinamese army smuggled cocaine using their own airline, Trans-Caribbean Airlines, to transport the drugs from Paramaribo to Ostend airport.. In 2013, four people, including two Surinamese people, suspected of taking small quantities of cannabis and cocaine from the Netherlands to Belgium every fortnight, were arrested.\n\nIn 2015 an organisation of fifteen Surinamese people smuggled cocaine into Belgium and sold ecstasy and cannabis in Antwerp. In 2016, ten people were arrested near Mol and Balen who were suspected of smuggling large quantities of cocaine from Suriname to Belgium via French Guiana. In addition, two were picked up in Cayenne. The group consisted of both Surinamese and Dutch people of Surinamese descent.\n\nAlso, this is a small French Guianese community in the Walloon community, also a tiny Guyanese community in the Flemish community.\n"}
{"id": "14106160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14106160", "title": "The Final Circle of Paradise", "text": "The Final Circle of Paradise\n\nThe Final Circle of Paradise (, literally \"Predatory Things of the Century\") is a science fiction novel by Arkady and Boris Strugatsky (also spelled Strugatski or Strugatskii) set in the first half of the 21st century. It was first published in the USSR in 1965 and the first English edition, translated by Leonid Renen, was published by DAW books in 1976. The literal English translation of the original Russian title is \"Predatory Things of Our Times\".\n\nThis novel is a sequel of sorts to an earlier Strugatsky novel \"Space Apprentice\" (1962). At the end of \"Space Apprentice\", flight engineer Ivan Zhilin gives up space travel for Earth, where \"the most important things are\" to make the solar system a better place for the young people of the world. \"The Final Circle of Paradise\" takes place a little less than ten years after \"Space Apprentice\", in a medium-sized seaside resort city somewhere in Europe. In the intervening time, he has been working for the security service of the World Council, an international governing body similar to but far more powerful than the United Nations. A few years before, Zhilin fought as part of an international brigade to put down a Fascist uprising in the same city where this story is set, reminiscent of the Soviet experience during the Second World War. This was supposedly one of the \"final\" wars before universal disarmament, where the last of the fascists were finally defeated. Like other Strugatsky novels, the setting is an internationalized future of advanced technology and world peace. There is no iron curtain, cold war, or arms race. Most of the world is permanently at peace, with the rest on the verge of being forcibly demilitarized.\n\nIvan Zhilin, posing as a writer working on a novel, visits a seaside resort city to investigate a series of mysterious deaths. Zhilin's role as an undercover agent becomes apparent to the reader only gradually and is not brought into the open until the final chapters of the novel.\n\nWhile being given a tour of the city, a tourism official tells Zhilin that he will get no work done, as he will be distracted by the \"twelve circles of paradise\" found in the city. These include the Fishers, which provide thrill seekers with situations of extreme and potentially fatal terror, the Shivers, which electronically induce pleasurable dreams to large crowds of people, and the Society of Patrons of Arts, who procure priceless works of art and ritualistically destroy them. The culture of this city has become utterly decadent, the product of an age of universal affluence. Zhilin refers to the present state of the world as \"the age of the boob\" where the highest priority is placed on orgiastic pleasure and staving off boredom, to the neglect of culture, education and scientific progress. The authors express the Marxist perspective in the scene of an argument between Zhilin and a third-world revolutionary:\nThe ultimate expression of the decadence of Earth culture is the mysterious \"slug\", which is apparently responsible for the deaths that Zhilin is investigating. At first Zhilin believes it to be some sort of narcotic, distributed by gangsters with secret laboratories and trafficking networks. Zhilin progressively finds clues that lead him to Peck Xenai, a his former classmate and the last surviving member of his international unit that fought the Fascists some years before. Peck, however, is physically ravaged by alcoholism and the use of \"slug\" and does not even recognize Zhilin when he finds him. Zhilin succeeds in getting a \"slug\" from Peck, in the form of a small silver electronic component. What Zhilin finds when he plugs the \"slug\" into his radio receiver and lies in the bathtub causes him to rethink the entire situation.\n\n\"Slug\" turns out to be a way of generating an artificial reality significantly more intense than normal reality, to the point where there is virtually no comparison between our reality and that of the \"slug\". People become addicted to it and spend increasing amounts of time unconscious in their bathtubs until it kills them by nervous exhaustion or brain hemorrhages. This is \"the final circle of paradise\". It also turns out that the \"slug\" is not the work of gangsters or a secret laboratory, but is a common electronic component being used in a novel way. If \"slug\" were to become widely known, Zhilin concludes, nothing would stop it from being used by millions the world over. Zhilin, himself struggling not to use it a second time, concludes that \"slug\" represents \"the end of progress\". He foresees humanity as a whole entering this illusory reality, which will eventually destroy mankind.\n\nAt the end of \"Space Apprentice\", Zhilin began to devote his life to making the solar system a better place for young people struggling to find purpose in the world. At the end of this story, he leaves his work with the World Council to fight \"the last war – the most bloodless and most difficult for its soldiers\" (p. 170) – that of making life worth living for the millions caught unprepared in an age of affluence, so that they will never need anything like \"slug\". However, even as Zhilin is saying this, at the end of the novel it is left ambiguous whether he thinks he will be able to resist using the \"slug\" again.\n\nPublished in the middle of 1960s, the book predicted several phenomena, like\n\n"}
{"id": "40584630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40584630", "title": "Thomas McElveen", "text": "Thomas McElveen\n\nThomas McElveen (born February 17, 1978) is a South Carolina state senator, representing the 35th district. He is a member of the Democratic Party.\n\nMcElveen earned a bachelor's degree from Davidson College in 2000 and a JD from the University of South Carolina in 2003. McElveen's father, Joe McElveen, is the mayor of Sumter, South Carolina.\n\nMcElveen served as both a prosecutor and public defender for Sumter County. He was elected to the South Carolina Senate in 2012. McElveen serves on the Agriculture and Natural Resources, Corrections and Penology, Fish, Game and Forestry, Judiciary, and Rules committees.\n\n"}
