{"id": "11063221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11063221", "title": "Aberdeen doctors", "text": "Aberdeen doctors\n\nThe Aberdeen doctors or Doctors of Aberdeen were six divines working at Marischal College and King's College in Aberdeen, Scotland in the seventeenth century. Until 1635, they enjoyed the leadership of Patrick Forbes, Bishop of Aberdeen. They are distinguished not only for their positions at Aberdeen, but also by their irenicist opposition to the National Covenant of 1638. Their adherence to Episcopacy and their support for the Articles of the Assembly at Perth (1618), which prescribed several English forms of worship, form the backdrop of their opposition to the Presbyterian Covenanters.\n\nWhen Patrick Forbes was consecrated Bishop of Aberdeen in 1618, he endowed a chair of divinity in each Aberdeen college. He revived the awarding of degrees in divinity which earlier Protestants had suppressed as prideful or as redolent of the Roman Catholic title Doctor of the Church. The early recipients of the Doctor of Divinity who stayed on to teach at the colleges became known as the \"Aberdeen doctors\".\n\nJohn Dury wrote to the doctors seeking their opinion on the points of dispute between the Lutherans and the Calvinists. Their reply of 20 February 1637 was supported by Robert Baillie but opposed by Samuel Rutherford. On 20 July 1638, a deputation seeking Aberdeen's adhesion to February's National Covenant arrived, comprising the Earl of Montrose, Lord Cupar, the Master of Forbes, and Sir Thomas Burnett, Laird of Leyes representing the nobility; and Alexander Henderson, David Dickson, and Andrew Cant, the ministry. The doctors were prepared to adhere provided satisfactory answers were given to 14 written questions, termed \"demands\". The Covenanter ministers' \"answers\" were submitted the following day, prompting \"replies\" from the doctors and \"second answers\" from the Covenanters, who then left the town. The doctors issued further replies which they called \"duplies\", which went unanswered. All the texts were quickly printed and widely circulated and debated.\n\nThe doctors' obduracy contributed to the First Bishops' War of 1639 in which the Covenanters sought the submission of Aberdeen.\n\nThe six doctors who participated in the 1638 disputation were:\n\nAs well as Bishop Patrick Forbes, two other notable Aberdeen divines were associated with the six doctors:\n\n"}
{"id": "43427902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43427902", "title": "Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Production Design", "text": "Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Production Design\n\nThe Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Production Design is an annual merit by the Africa Film Academy to reward the best art direction in a film for the year. It was introduced in 2008 as \"Achievement in Art Direction\" but was renamed to \"Best Production Design\" since the 2011 edition.\n"}
{"id": "53656850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53656850", "title": "Alexandr Kliment", "text": "Alexandr Kliment\n\nAlexandr Kliment (January 30, 1929 – March 22, 2017) was a Czech writer, poet and playwright. He was a signatory of Charter 77 in 1977.\n\nIn 1967, Kliment participated in a congress of the writers' union, which included Václav Havel, Ivan Klíma, Ludvík Vaculík, and photographer Oldřich Škácha. The writers' congress, which took place during a period of liberalism in Czechoslovakia, is considered to be a predecessor of the Prague Spring in 1968. He later joined with Havel and other Czechoslovak dissidents to sign the Charter 77.\n\nKliment died on March 21, 2017, at the age of 88.\n"}
{"id": "16556846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16556846", "title": "Ammah (Book of Mormon)", "text": "Ammah (Book of Mormon)\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Ammah () was a Nephite missionary from 1st century BC, and a companion to Aaron. Ammah was part of the missionary delegation to the Lamanites that eventually led to the conversion of the Ammonites. He was imprisoned with Aaron during his ministry.\n"}
{"id": "59023929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59023929", "title": "Armand Preud'homme Museum", "text": "Armand Preud'homme Museum\n\nThe Armand Preud'homme Museum was a museum in Peer, Belgium, that was dedicated to the Belgian composer Armand Preud'homme (1904-1986). From 1990 to 2018 the museum formed a combination with the Heemkundig Museum (local museum) upstairs, called the Dulle Griet Museum.\n\nPreud'homme was born in this house, when his father was a teacher and head of the municipal boys school. The land of the house and the school was acquired by the municipality on 3 April 1859. It was developed by the provincial underarchitect and built from 1860 to 1861.\n\nPreud'homme was an organist and composed hundreds of songs and operettas on themes like connectivity of people and the nostalgia for his birth region. His most popular operetta was \"Op de purp'ren hei\" and his most popular song \"Kempenland\"; the latter one was popular during the occupation of the Second World War as march music for paramilitary groups.\n\nThe museum was founded by Jaak Geuns and was largely run by volunteers. It showed belongings of the musician, like his grand piano, news paper articles, photographs, and sheet music of his most famous songs and operettas.\n\nThe number of groups visiting the museum went down from eight hundred per year at the beginning to just a couple in 2018. In this year the municipality of Peer decided to close both museums. On this site it planned appartments and a service center.\n\n"}
{"id": "144246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144246", "title": "Author surrogate", "text": "Author surrogate\n\nAs a literary technique, an author surrogate is a fictional character based on the author. On occasion, authors insert themselves under their own name into their works, typically for humorous or surrealistic effect.\n\nFrequently, the author surrogate is the same as the main character and/or the protagonist, and is also often the narrator. As an example, the author surrogate may be the one who delivers political diatribe, expressing the author's beliefs at an appropriate time, or expound on the strengths and weaknesses of other characters, thereby communicating directly the author's opinion on the characters in question. Philosophers may use author-surrogates to express their personal positions, especially if these are unpopular or run counter to established views. British writer David Hume used the author-surrogate 'Philo' in the \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\". Philonous was the author-surrogate of the Irish philosopher George Berkeley in his work \"Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous\". Michael Crichton used his character Ian Malcolm to express views on catastrophic system failure in his novel \"Jurassic Park\". Perhaps the best-known philosophical author-surrogate is Socrates in the writings of Plato. \n\nA surrogate's life may be very similar to that of the author. Like his creator, Peter Marlowe—a character in James Clavell's novels—wrote about his experience as a prisoner of war with the Japanese during World War II, became a Hollywood writer, and visited Hong Kong to research a book on its trading companies. Most stories have an author surrogate, insofar as the author is usually capable of pointing to one character (major or minor) whom he or she identifies with to a much greater degree than any other character. This can take the form of a realistic depiction of the author (Benjamin in \"Animal Farm\"), or a negative (Woody Allen in many of his films) or positive depiction of the author. Steve Gerber depicted himself saving the universe in his final issue of \"Man-Thing\" for Marvel Comics, and Chris Claremont did the same, while Gerber's act was passive and Claremont's had him merge briefly with the title character. In both cases, the authors had other characters that were more traditional author surrogates, Richard Rory and Jonh Daltry. In \"Animal Man\", Grant Morrison appears as the author who controls the title characters actions. For example, he tells Buddy Baker that the next writer could have him eating meat (which in fact did happen, in a bizarre set of circumstances), and Buddy says, \"But I don't eat meat,\" to which Morrison retorts, \"No, I don't eat meat.\"\n\nColombian author and Nobel laureate Gabriel García Márquez appears near the end of his own book, \"One Hundred Years of Solitude\". He is just a minor character in the novel.\n\nAuthor surrogacy is a frequently observed phenomenon in hobbyist and amateur writing, so much so that fan fiction critics have evolved the term Mary Sue to refer to an idealized author surrogate. The term 'Mary Sue' is thought to evoke the cliché of the adolescent author who uses writing as a vehicle for the indulgence of self-idealization rather than entertaining others. For male author surrogates, similar names such as 'Marty Stu' or 'Gary Stu' are occasionally used.\n\nThe expression has also been used in a different sense, meaning the \"principal author\" of a multi-author document.\n\n"}
{"id": "10370179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10370179", "title": "Bachir Bensaddek", "text": "Bachir Bensaddek\n\nBachir Bensaddek is a Canadian television director of Algerian Berber descent, best known for his co-direction of 2002 Emmy Award-winning TV series \"Cirque du Soleil: Fire Within\".\n\nBorn in Algeria,in the year 1972, Bensaddek came to Montreal, Quebec, Canada in 1992 as a student before immigrating to Canada. Bensaddek wrote a play in 2004 entitled \"Montréal la blanche\" about Algerian immigrants in Quebec.\n\nIn May 2011, he released his documentary film \"Rap arabe\", an ORBI-XXI production, covering the rap scene in three countries (Morocco, Lebanon, Syria) with a number of rappers including Malikah, Ashekman, Lil Zac and Don Bigg. It had its premiere at the 27th Festival international de cinéma Vues d'Afrique, and was rebroadcast on RDI, TV5 and Al Jazeera's Documentary channel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21279456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21279456", "title": "Baixing", "text": "Baixing\n\nBaixing ( or lao baixing () is a term in Chinese meaning \"the people\", or \"commoners\". The word \"lao\" () is often added before \"baixing\" to give the term a more affectionate tone.\n\nChinese family names are patrilineal, passed from father to children. Chinese women, after marriage, typically retain their birth surname. Historically, however, only Chinese men possessed \"xìng\" (), in addition to \"shì\" (); the women had only the latter, and took on their husband's \"xìng\" after marriage.\n\n along the plain of the Yellow River, there lived several large tribes, including the Huangdi tribes (), Yandi tribes (), Yi tribes (), and the Jiuli tribes (). After , the Huangdi tribes, Yandi tribes and the Yi tribes formed an alliance which consisted of roughly 100 tribes, hence the origin of the Baixing , or the \"hundred surnames\". The three-tribe-alliance won the war over the Jiuli tribe, and the war captives became slaves of the alliance, hence the origin of the term Limin (), who were formerly of the Jiuli tribe.\n\nDuring the Western Zhou, Baixing came to mean \"slaveowners\" and Limin their slaves. , the terms Baixing and Limin came to refer to the same thing, the common people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48505183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48505183", "title": "Bisweswar Bhattacharjee", "text": "Bisweswar Bhattacharjee\n\nBisweswar Bhattacharjee is an Indian chemical engineer, multi-disciplinary scientist and a former director of the \"Chemical Engineering and Technology Group\" of the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC). He is a former project director of the \"Rare Materials Project\", Mysore and a member of the Atomic Energy Commission of India. Bhattacharjee, a recipient of the civilian honour of the Padma Shri, is best known for his contributions in the development of gas centrifugal technology for the High Speed Rotors (HSR), used in the production of enriched Uranium and other strategic materials, at BARC.\n\nBhattacharjee was born in 1942 in the Indian state of West Bengal and joined University College of Technology, Kolkata to secure his master's degree in chemical engineering from there. Later, he joined BARC Training School to pass out in 1996. He served the Uranium Corporation of India at Jaduguda, Bihar, the only Uranium mill in the country and was instrumental in the establishment of the \"Rare Materials Plant\", a classified project in the Ratnahalli village of Mysore. He has also been involved with the development of desalination plants for BARC; the plant attached to the Madras Atomic Power Station, Kalpakkam is one of the fifteen plants supplied by BARC in the country. He became the director of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre in 2001 and stayed at the post till 2004, handing over the charges to Srikumar Banerjee in April. It was during his tenure as the head of BARC, an accident occurred at the Kalpakkam reprocessing plant, on 21 January 2003, which caused exposure of six BARC personnel to radiation.\n\nBhattacharjee is an elected Fellow of the Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) and a former member of the \"Nuclear and Radiological Emergency\" at the National Disaster Management Authority. He also sered as a member of the Atomic Energy Commission of India. He has contributed the foreword to \"Chemical Metallurgy: Principles and Practice\", a text book on chemical metallurgy, published in 2006. The Government of India awarded him the fourth highest civilian award of the Padma Shri, in 2001, for his services to the fields of science and engineering.\n"}
{"id": "745640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=745640", "title": "Bors", "text": "Bors\n\nBors (; ) is the name of two knights in the Arthurian legend, one the father of the other. Bors the Elder is the King of Gaunnes or Gaul during the early period of King Arthur's reign, and is the brother of King Ban of Benoic. The two first appear in the 13th-century Lancelot-Grail cycle. Bors the Younger later becomes one of the best Knights of the Round Table, and even achieves the Holy Grail.\n\nAs Ban's brother, King Bors is Lancelot's and Hector de Maris' uncle. He marries Evaine, the sister of Ban's wife Elaine, and has two sons, Bors the Younger and Lionel. Ban and Bors become Arthur's early allies in his fight against eleven rebel kings in Britain, including Lot, Urien, and Caradoc, and he vows to help them against their enemy Claudas, who has been threatening their lands. Arthur is late on his promise, however, and Claudas succeeds in his invasion, resulting in both kings' deaths. Ban's son Lancelot is taken by the Lady of the Lake, but Bors' children are raised in captivity by Claudas' retainers.\n\nSir Bors the Younger is better known than King Bors throughout Arthurian studies. Sir Bors and Lionel live for several years at Claudas' court. But they eventually rebel against him and even slay his cruel son Dorin. Before Claudas can retaliate, the boys are rescued by a servant of the Lady of the Lake and are spirited off to be raised with their cousin Lancelot. All three grow to be excellent knights and go to Camelot to join King Arthur's retinue. Bors is recognizable by a distinctive scar on his forehead, and participates in most of the King's conflicts, including the eventual battle with Claudas that liberates his father's lands. Bors fathers Sir Elyan the White when the daughter of King Brandegoris tricks him into sleeping with her by way of a magic ring; he later introduces his son into the Round Table.\n\nBors is always portrayed as one of the Round Table's finest, but his real glory comes on the Grail Quest, where he proves himself worthy enough to witness the Grail's mysteries alongside Galahad and Percival. Several episodes display his virtuous character; in one, a lady approaches Bors vowing to commit suicide unless he sleeps with her. He refuses to break his vow of celibacy; the lady and her maidens threaten to throw themselves off the castle battlements. As the ladies jump off, they reveal themselves to be demons set on deceiving him by playing to his sense of compassion. In another, Bors faces a dilemma where he must choose between rescuing his brother Lionel, being whipped with thorns by villains in one direction, and saving a young girl who has been abducted by a rogue knight in the other. Bors chooses to help the maiden, but prays for his brother's safety. Lionel escapes his tormentors and tries to murder Bors, and Bors does not defend himself, refusing to raise a weapon against his kinsman. Fellow Knight of the Round Table Sir Calogrenant and a religious hermit try to intervene, but Lionel slays them both when they get in the way. Before he can kill his brother, however, God strikes him down with an immobilizing column of fire. Bors, Galahad, and Percival go on to achieve the Holy Grail and accompany it to Sarras, a mystical island in the Middle East. Both Galahad and Percival pass away while there; Bors is the only one to return.\n\nIn Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", Sir Bors agrees to fight as Guinevere's champion when she is accused of poisoning a knight. Bors is reluctant, as her first choice, Lancelot, left Camelot because of Guinevere. He relents when Arthur sees Guinevere kneeling before him. He is about to joust for her sake when Lancelot arrives to take his place.\n\nLike the rest of his family, Bors joins Lancelot in exile after his affair with Guinevere is exposed, and helps rescue the Queen from her execution at the stake. Bors becomes one of Lancelot's most trusted advisors in the ensuing war between Lancelot and Arthur, and becomes ruler of Claudas' former lands. When Arthur and Gawain must return to Britain to fight the evil usurper Mordred, Gawain sends a letter to Lancelot asking for aid. Lancelot's men arrive to put down the remainder of the rebellion led by Mordred's sons Melehan and Melou; Lionel is killed by Melehan, and Bors avenges his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58582194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58582194", "title": "Boutros el-Khoury", "text": "Boutros el-Khoury\n\nSheikh Boutros el-Khoury (, 1907 – 18 November 1984) was a Lebanese businessman, banker and industrialist. A successful self-made man, Khoury managed to build a large commercial and industrial empire, and was one of Lebanon's most well-established businessmen from the 1950s to the 1970s. Khoury was an important figure of the Lebanese ruling elite in the second half of the 20th century. He played a decisive role in the development of economic legislation, and used his expertise in the resolution of several major national crises.\n\nKhoury was born in 1907 in the village of Karm Sadde, in the Zghorta District (North Lebanon), the son of Salim and Myriam el-Khoury. His family hailed from the Lebanese diaspora in the French colonies of West Africa, with some members, including his father, residing in Senegal . Khoury lost his parents at an early age: his father died abroad on the day he was born, while his mother passed away when he was three years old. Khoury was subsequently raised first by his grandparents and then by his paternal aunt, Sayde Khoury, while his father's uncle, Abbas Abboud, who resided in Senegal, supported him financially. It was Abboud who initiated Khoury to the world of business and commerce early on in his life.\n\nKhoury studied at the Mar Yaacoub school in his home village and graduated from the al-Alam school in the village of Daraya, Zghorta.\n\nKhoury pursued a career in business, and by the 1960s had become one of the wealthiest men in Lebanon thanks to his investments in various sectors of the economy.\n\nKhoury's career began at the age of 20. He started out in the oil business, dividing his time between his home village and Tripoli until, the beginnings of the 1930s, he moved permanently to North Lebanon’s capital, where it was easier for him to run his business and broaden his contacts. He then shifted easily from trade to industry and conducted many successful partnerships with well-established businessmen in various fields, founding companies such as the Stephan and Khoury company (created with Joseph and Sayed Stephan of Kfarsghab), the Kfoury–Khoury company (founded with Al Kfoury from Khenchara, Metn District), the “Al Ghazzal Transports” with Ghattas el-Murr, and Fadel Al-Ghandour from Tripoli, among others.\n\nOver the course of the 1920s, Khoury gained a thorough understanding of financial investment. In accordance with the traditional role played at that time by the Lebanese diaspora in the country's economy, the young sheikh reinvested the money he received from his family abroad, including his great-uncle Abboud from Senegal, in various local businesses.\n\nIn this respect, his experience in the hydroelectric company \"La Kadisha\" highlighted early on his innate talents as a businessman. The company had been founded in 1924 by prominent figures in Bsharri, such as the Keirouz and Geagea families, with the Maronite Archbishop of Tripoli, Anthony Peter Arida, also playing an important role. Under the French Mandate, the company had obtained the concession to provide electricity in North Lebanon, from the Kadisha Valley to the city of Lebanon. First introduced into the company through his uncle Abbas, Khoury quickly rose through its ranks, and in 1929, at the age of 22, was elected to the administrative council. In 1929, La Kadisha merged with the Abu Ali hydroelectric plant, the power concession for which had been granted to the Stephan brothers. On August 10, 1930, Khoury was re-elected to the new council. He gradually acquired a majority stake in the company, until on May 14, 1953, he bought the majority of shares owned by the French shareholders of the companies La Pyrénéenne and La Toulousaine. He then became president of the company.\n\nKhoury's years working in the administration of La Kadisha had a significant impact on his economic and political outlook. The economic thought of Albert Naccache, author of La Kadisha hydroelectric project, was especially influential. Naccache advocated greater industrial development in Lebanon, contrary to the widespread ideology at the time that was influenced by the ideas of Michel Chiha, according to which Lebanon was a “merchant republic” devoid of any raw materials. Naccache called for the establishment of a large network of hydroelectric power plants across the country that would be financed and managed entirely by Lebanese capital and executives. This experience gave Khoury a taste for industrial adventure and contributed to his grander vision for the national economy.\n\nKhoury's interest in agriculture also began at an early age, due to his rural upbringing. He started trading in agricultural products, beginning with olive oil, which he sold through North Lebanon before committing to the purchase and resale of flour and wheat to the whole of Lebanon. From the late 1940s onward, he negotiated the cost price per kilogram of both flour and wheat with the Ministry of National Economy. His concern for the agricultural industry and the rural world was evident from the start of his parliamentary career: He was elected as head of the Commission of Agriculture and Food Supply for two consecutive terms in 1946 and 1947, as well as head of the Commission of Public Works in 1947.\n\nIn the 1950s, Khoury became involved in the fight against the monopolization of staple foods and rising prices and became one of the leading figures in the world of trade. He was often consulted by authorities in times of national emergency. During the 1958 Lebanon crisis, he belonged to the group of traders that sounded the alarm about the paralysis of commercial activity in the country, and publicly encouraged the unloading of boats in the Port of Beirut to avoid food shortages.\nIn addition to his involvement in the wheat trade, Khoury also revolutionized sugar production in Lebanon. In 1963, in his capacity as representative of sugar refiners, he advised Prime Minister of Lebanon Rashid Karami on the measures to be taken to meet the country's sugar requirements for the following year. His suggestion was to encourage the production of sugar beet, almost nonexistent in Lebanon at the time, in order to boost domestic output and allow the country to move towards self-sufficiency in sugar production. He was also one of the largest shareholders in the Anjar sugar factory, playing a key role in the resolution of the sugar beet crisis that lasted from December 1964 to June 1965 and which saw the Bekaa peasants clashing with the management of the factory itself.\n\nKhoury's stature and position as a prominent industrialist made him inclined to a traditional and benevolent social paternalism towards the peasants. To help Lebanese farmers and combat rural exodus, he was actively involved with the Banque de Crédit Agricole, Industriel et Foncier (BCAIF), founded in 1954, becoming chairman in 1958. During the banana crisis caused by the violent storm of November 20, 1964, which destroyed production for an entire season, Khoury offered long-term loans to banana growers in order to alleviate their difficulties.\n\nKhoury was one of the pillars of Lebanese industry during the second half of the 20th century, and he was a keen supporter of investment of Lebanese capital in the industrial sector, which he advocated as a means of increasing the national income and curbing unemployment. He was also president of the Association of Industrialists from 1965 to 1975, and called for the establishment of a Ministry of Industry.\n\nKhoury's first industrial ventures were in the electricity sector. He invested at an early stage in the La Kadisha company, and in 1948 founded another hydroelectric company, Al-Bared, with two other partners . Through these two companies, Khoury helped to solve the electricity crisis that plagued Lebanon between 1952 and 1954. He proposed linking Beirut to the networks of Qadisha, Nahr el-Bared and Nahr el-Joz to overcome the power cuts in the capital, with Al-Bared handling the operation. In an effort to strengthen the energy sector, he demanded in 1956 a government loan of 5 million LBP to La Kadisha in order to avoid an increase in electricity tariffs.\n\nKhoury was also involved in the cement industry. In 1963, he became a shareholder in the Lebanese Cement Company, founded in 1929 by the Maronite Patriarchate in Chekka, having supplied its factories with electricity through the Al-Bared company since 1956.\nIn 1952, through several companies founded in conjunction with various business partners from Tripoli Khoury helped establish a free zone in the Port of Tripoli, building port facilities and warehouses and supplying the necessary machinery for the transfer of goods. This expanded the port significantly, as well as strengthening North Lebanese industry in general. He then founded several import–export companies with his partners to encourage trade and transit operations, which inevitably led him to become more closely involved in the maritime transport sector. He became a ship owner and founded the Maritime Boutros S. El-Khoury Agency in the 1960s.\n\nKhoury also invested in numerous other areas, founding or co-founding over 50 companies both in Lebanon and abroad. Sectors to which he contributed included aluminum and pressed wood production, the petroleum industry, the drinks industry (notably juices and sparkling water), the hospitality industry (hotels), the insurance sector, and the land and real estate industry.\n\nKhoury's involvement in the Lebanese banking sector contributed to the emergence of the “Golden Age” in the domestic banking industry in the 1950s. He became one of the main figures of the Lebanese banking sector, alongside people like Pierre Edde, Hussein Al Oweini and Philippe Takla. In addition to his role in the BCAIF, which played a leading role in the economic affairs of the country, he also participated in the establishment of many banking institutions, including the project \"Bank Al-Ahli Al-Mahjar\", which never took shape but whose purpose was to link the capitals of the diaspora to those of the motherland. Following the same principle, the BLOM Bank (Banque du Liban et d’Outre-Mer) was created a year later in 1951. The Sheikh was one of its founders, also serving as its vice-president. BLOM Bank remains one of the leading banks in Lebanon. He was also one of the founders of Al-Madina Bank, established in 1982. He was a shareholder in the Bank of Industry and Labor and invested momentarily funds in Al-Mahjar Bank and Bank of the Mediterranean (Banque de la Méditerranée) in the 1980s.\n\nThe success of BLOM attracted Arab and foreign capital to the institution. In May 1960, Khoury secured a 5 million USD loan for the BCAIF, largely through his personal negotiations with Hart Perry, director of the American Bank Institution known as the Credit Fund. Also through the BCAIF, he led similar negotiations on behalf of the Lebanese government to obtain a US wheat loan in 1964, efforts which resulted in the agreement of a $17 million deal in July 1966. The Sheikh also maintained relations with leading personalities in the international banking community, including David Rockefeller, adviser to the World Bank.\n\nIn his capacity as chairman of the BCAIF's board of directors, Khoury also worked closely with the Lebanese government in efforts to alleviate problems in the banking sector. In 1964, he chaired the banking consortium that regulated the resolution of the “Land Bank” crisis. He was also involved in the 1966 project to establish a Development Bank, for the financing of industrial and tourism projects. Additionally, he was a key figure in the resolution of the “Intra-banking crisis” of 1968, during which Lebanon's central bank, the Banque du Liban (BDL), asked the BCAIF to handle the management and liquidation of 10 banks in distress.\n\nKhoury's role in the Lebanese business world gave him a decisive voice in the dialogue that emerged between trade unionists and managers in the second half of the 1960s. As a representative of the industrialists, he was commonly invited by the ruling class to participate in the settlement of social crises. While usually chosen to represent the employers in these discussions, Khoury often adopted a conciliatory position, reflecting his role as a mediator in both politics and business.\n\nOn the question of wage increases in the private sector, demanded by unions as early as November 1964, Khoury welcomed the adoption in January 1965 of the wage increase law, which in his opinion guaranteed continued cooperation between employers and workers, as well as increasing living standards.\n\nKhoury was also committed to improving worker productivity, providing funds for vocational training and collaborating with the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs on the modernization of the Dekwaneh accelerated vocational training center.\n\nKhoury's conciliatory tendencies did not outweigh his economic liberalism, however, and while he was sensitive to worker well-being, he believed that the state should also work in the interests of employers in order to improve the whole economic sector. He remained a proponent of free trade, which also led him to defend the interests of industrialists and capitalists. During the fruit crisis of June 1966, he condemned the measures of the Union of Farmers—defended by Kamal Jumblatt and the leftist parties—as an attempt to nationalize the fruit industry.\n\nKhoury's social skills and talents as a mediator also served him well in his political career. He established himself at an early age as an influential figure in his home village of Karm Sadde, and received as a consequence the honorary title of \"Sheikh\". He was therefore elected mayor of the village at a very young age.\n\nKhoury's reputation, in North Lebanon and across the country, grew as a result of his business successes and growing leadership skills, along with his participation in the Lebanese independence movement led by Bechara El Khoury against the French Mandate. He rapidly became established as an important political leader in Zghorta, and was elected member of the Lebanese Parliament from 1943 to 1947. He showed little interest in a purely political career, however, retiring from parliament and instead adopting a role as an advisor and mediator in political circles.\n\nKhoury built strong ties with Lebanon's most prominent post-independence political figures, including Camille Chamoun, Fouad Chehab, Rashid Karami, Charles Helou, Suleiman Frangieh and Elias Sarkis. He often acted as an intermediary and conciliator between different factions, holding frequent social events to this end at either his residence or St. George's Hotel in Beirut. His prominence and influence in political circles earned him the title of “the man and friend of all regimes.”\n\nKhoury's political connections also afforded him various business advantages, thanks in large part to the government contracts he was able to obtain. In 1964, in close cooperation with Lebanese President Fouad Chehab, he negotiated with the United States a 25 million USD wheat loan. Contracts such as this gave Khoury the opportunity to play a decisive role in the country's political economy.\n\nKhoury's authority and influence within both the economic and the political establishment was particularly evident during the social crisis of 1974 and the subsequent Lebanese civil war.\n\nThe social unrest that shook the country in the early 1970s was driven in part by the activities of the General Confederation of Lebanese Workers (Confédération Générale des Travailleurs Libanais, CGTL). The CGTL protested against the deterioration of living conditions, and in June 1974 presented the government with a list of demands, which included the amendment of Article 50 of the Labor Code, authorizing arbitrary dismissal. In response, the president of the Association of Industrialists resigned on July 11, 1974 to signify his total rejection of trade union demands, and refused any negotiation, a move that prolonged the crisis considerably.\n\nKhoury's position during this conflict was in line with that of the rest of the Lebanese business world, traditionally committed to private initiative and individual and contractual freedom, which were endorsed by the constitution. His commitment to the Lebanese Front during the civil war was thus consistent with his pre-1975 stance: he financed the purchase of weapons used by the Al-Tanzim militia and Camille Chamoun's National Liberal Party, which were fighting the Islamist-progressive militas calling for reforms in the economic and political spheres.\n\nKhoury was also renowned for his philanthropic activities and generous donations to charity. He was always committed to help in times of humanitarian crisis or natural hazards and used his influence for fundraising purposes: during the floods of North Lebanon on December 22, 1955, he participated in the committee of dignitaries organizing the relief efforts in Tripoli. Similarly, he was one of the first to donate money during the earthquake of March 16, 1956, which affected the Chouf and South Lebanon regions, and formed a committee to organize fundraising among industrialists. In March 1960, he donated to the Red Cross for the benefit of the victims of the Agadir earthquake. In 1974, he became a member of the National Committee for Victims of Cyprus.\n\nKhoury married Najibe Abboud, a relative of his mentor Abbas, on September 19, 1926. The couple had seven children.\n\nKhoury died in 1984 in Beirut at the age of 77.\n\nKhoury has since become established in Lebanese collective memory as the quintessential self-made man, due to his rural origins and his impressive social ascent during his work in Tripoli, Lebanon and Beirut. His legacy has been examined in various books, both fiction and non-fiction. Similarly, a commemorative statue was erected in his home village of Karm Sadde to honor him.\n\nKhoury was also known for wearing the tarboush, which became his trademark, both in the newspapers and in the political cartoons made of him by the famous Lebanese cartoonist Pierre Sadek. He was also known for his great sense of humor.\n\n\nIn total, Sheikh Boutros el-Khoury received 9 decorations, including:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6345256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6345256", "title": "Carl Ikeme", "text": "Carl Ikeme\n\nCarl Onora Ikeme (born 8 June 1986) is a former professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper.\n\nHe spent his entire career at Wolverhampton Wanderers, making 207 appearances across all competitions. He was part of their teams that won the Championship in 2009 and League One in 2014, and he made one Premier League appearance in 2012. Throughout his time at Wolves, he was loaned to eight other clubs. Born and raised in England, Ikeme chose to represent Nigeria at international level, earning ten caps between 2015 and 2016.\n\nIn July 2017, Ikeme was diagnosed with acute leukaemia. A year later, after being in complete remission, he retired.\n\nIkeme progressed through Wolverhampton Wanderers' academy and made the first team squad in their 2003–04 Premier League season. Due to Matt Murray's long term injury, he was promoted to the substitutes' bench for a string of games but never played.\n\nHe moved on a month-long loan to Conference Premier side Accrington Stanley on 14 October 2004, to fill the gap in their team caused by Jon Kennedy's broken leg. He made his senior debut on 16 October when he played the first of four games for them, keeping a clean sheet in a goalless draw at Aldershot Town. \n\nHe finally made his Wolves debut the following season, in a 5–1 win over Chester City in the League Cup second round on 23 August 2005. He also had a further loan move to Stockport County in late 2005 which was cut short due to a hand injury. On 26 August 2006 he made his league debut for Wolves when he appeared as a late substitute in a 1–0 home win over Luton Town, replacing Murray for the final three minutes. \n\nIkeme suffered a knee injury during the 2006–07 season and had to undergo surgery, which kept him out of contention until late 2007. After recovering, he was an unused substitute or only employed in reserve team fixtures. It was not until September 2008 that he got his chance to return to Wolves' first team after regular keeper Wayne Hennessey was suspended. He enjoyed his longest run of games in a Wolves shirt until injury ruled him out for the remainder of the season, during which the club went on to claim the Championship title and reach the Premier League.\n\nAfter regaining fitness, he joined League One side Charlton Athletic on a month's loan in October 2009 to cover for injured Robert Elliot, making five appearances. Upon the end of this loan he immediately went out on loan again, this time to Championship side Sheffield United for a month but a hamstring injury halted his stay. He recovered from this setback and was again sent out on loan to a Championship club, this time Queens Park Rangers during January 2010, where he made 17 appearances.\n\nIn August 2010, he again went out on loan when he joined Leicester City on a one-month emergency deal as cover for injured keeper Chris Weale. This spell was later extended but ended when the Foxes recruited Chris Kirkland at the end of November, after four appearances by Ikeme. He spent the remainder of the 2010–11 season back at Wolves.\n\nIkeme completed a one-month loan move to Championship side Middlesbrough in August 2011, after impressing in a pre-season trial. This loan deal was extended for a further month in August, and then for a third and final month until 1 November. He kept six clean sheets in ten games before a hand injury saw him return to Molineux.\n\nOnce recovered, he had a loan spell at another Championship side when he joined Doncaster Rovers in November 2011. He made five appearances for the club as they struggled at the foot of the table before the deal expired in January. He returned to them once again in March 2012, joining on an initial one-month loan deal, later extended to run until the end of the season. However, he was recalled by Wolves following an injury to first choice goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey; by this point, Doncaster had been confirmed as relegated to League One under his future Wolves manager Dean Saunders.\n\nIkeme made his first appearance for Wolves since January 2009 on the final day of 2011–12, coming on as a substitute for Dorus de Vries in the 51st minute of a 3–2 loss to Wigan Athletic at the DW Stadium on 13 May 2012. \n\nIkeme started the 2012–13 season as Wolves' first choice goalkeeper in the Championship following injuries to Hennessey and De Vries; he maintained his place in the first team when the latter returned in September 2012. In March 2013 he conceded a bizarre own goal during a league game against Bristol City, when he allowed a David Davis backpass to go between his legs and roll over the line. Ikeme was substituted at half time, and it was later confirmed that he had broken his hand during the interval by punching a tactics board in the dressing room in frustration at the incident. This injury kept him out for the remainder of the season, which ended in relegation to League One.\n\nIkeme retained the goalkeeping position at Wolves for the 2013–14 season, excelling in a 3–0 win over Colchester United at the Colchester Community Stadium on 5 October 2013 when he saved a late penalty from Freddie Sears. However, he again suffered a broken hand when he was injured in a collision against Tranmere on 1 January 2014. He returned to Wolves' goal now as the established first choice, following the sale of Hennessey, and was a part of the team that won the League One title with a record points tally. After keeping 22 clean sheets across the season Ikeme was named in the PFA League One Team of the Year alongside four other teammates.\n\nOnce back in the Championship, Ikeme impressed at the start of 2014–15, keeping five clean sheets in the first eight games, during which he saved an Owen Garvan penalty in a 1–0 win over Bolton Wanderers on 20 September 2014 at Molineux.\n\nDuring the 2016–17 season, Ikeme extended his current deal, ensuring he is contracted to Wolves until summer 2020. The goalkeeper received his first career red card on 21 January 2017 in a league match at Norwich City for pushing Wes Hoolahan; when Wolves appealed against it, the suspension was reduced from three matches to two.\n\nOn 6 July 2017, Wolverhampton Wanderers announced that Ikeme had been diagnosed with acute leukaemia after returning abnormal blood tests during a routine pre-season check-up. Wolves won the Championship title and returned to the Premier League, but Ikeme took no part due to his treatment.\n\nIkeme told the public on 23 June 2018 that he was in \"complete remission\" after \"a tough year and intense chemotherapy\". He announced his retirement on medical grounds on 27 July. The team's new goalkeeper Rui Patrício left the number 1 jersey vacant in Ikeme's honour, choosing the 11 instead.\n\nIkeme was born in Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands, and was eligible to represent England or Nigeria at international level, choosing the latter. He was first called up to the \"Super Eagles\" squad in March 2007 by new manager Berti Vogts, who named a 37-man provisional squad for a 2008 Africa Cup of Nations qualification match against Uganda that introduced other foreign-born players such as Gabriel Agbonlahor and Toto Tamuz. \n\nHe made his international debut for Nigeria on 5 September 2015 against Tanzania in a 2017 Africa Cup of Nations qualification game. Ikeme made three appearances early on in Nigeria's successful qualification campaign for the 2018 FIFA World Cup, but could not go to the final tournament due to his cancer treatment, which manager Gernot Rohr called his greatest regret.\n\nSource: \n\nWolverhampton Wanderers\n\nIndividual\n"}
{"id": "43681059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43681059", "title": "Cristóbal Cobo", "text": "Cristóbal Cobo\n\nCristóbal Cobo (full name Juan Cristóbal Cobo Romani: born March 19, 1976) is a professor and researcher in new and educational technologies, who has worked on projects in South America, North America and Europe. He currently is a research fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute, and associate at the Centre on Skills, Knowledge and Organisational Performance, part of the University of Oxford, England. His main theoretical contribution is the concept of “invisible learning,” promoting the idea that learning should be a result of action and interaction, rather than through instruction. He is also a defensor of open access publication, particularly in Latin America.\n\nCobo was born and raised in Santiago, Chile, attending primary through high school at Colegio Verbo Divino.\n\nHe obtained his bachelor’s in journalism in 1999 from the Diego Portales University in Santiago, Chile, then went on to earn his masters (2003) and doctorate (2005) from the Autonomous University of Barcelona .\n\nHe currently lives in England.\n\nDr. Cobo is a professor and researcher in communication, new technologies and education technologies. He began his career in 2005 as a professor and director of communication as well as editor of the educational platform at the Latin American Social Sciences Institute (FLACSO) in Mexico, working there from 2005 to 2010. During this time, he also taught classes in communications at National Autonomous University of Mexico, Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Studies and was a professor and researcher at the University of Colima .\n\nCobo has also worked on various education projects in Americas, collaborating with the University of Minnesota, the University of Toronto, the Telefónica Foundation in Argentina and Mexico and Burson-Marsteller in Chile, as well as acting as a consultant for the national education programs in Mexico, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Argentina.\n\nIn 2009, he received a grant from the University of Oxford to research European public policy regarding digital competencies, becoming a visiting follow at the Centre on Skills, Knowledge and Organisational Performance (SKOPE) at the institution. He became a full-time research fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute in 2010, focusing on the development of integrated and interdisciplinary projects related to the Internet.\n\nHe has also worked on other projects in Europe such as the K-Network project, focused on the creation of networks on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean, the Socio-Economic Services for European Research project, and the academic online platform Internet Science for the European Commission’s Seventh Framework Programme. Between 2011 and 2014 he has coordinated the research division of the OportUnidad project, an open education resource initiative supported by ALFA III.\n\nIn 2010, Dr. Cobo was named a member of the Consejo Asesor del Informe Horizon Iberoamérica, part of the New Media Consortium, and serves on the board of the Global Open Educational Resources (OER) Graduate Network and in the ‘Open Education 2030’ board (coordinated by the Institute for Prospective Technological Studies part of the Joint Research Center of the European Commission) .\n\nHe has given conferences in all of Latin America as well as the United States, England, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal and China.\n\nHis research interests include knowledge transfer, self-learning, digital awareness, skills for innovation, informal learning, knowledge workers, collective intelligence, future of work, human-computer interaction. With John Moravec he is co-author the book \"Invisible Learning: Toward a new ecology of education\", published by the University of Barcelona; In 2009 he published ‘Information Architecture, usability and Internet‘ (2009). Earlier, in collaboration with Hugo Pardo, he wrote one of the first books about the Web 2.0 in Spanish. Cobo has also worked as evaluator of national policies on education and technology, such as Enciclomedia at the Secretariat of Public Education (Mexico).\n\nWith emphasis on the need for open content and open knowledge, Cobo has promoted the ideas that education should be a continuous process and flexible to changing needs. He believes there should be a balance between F2F and virtual learning environments and to mix them to complement each other, and has criticized the use of technology in education currently as contradictory and confusing, with too much promotion of products by companies not necessarily focused in improving education.\n\nCobo, argues the challenges of a more open science: \"we exclude a lot of communities, which might be equally interested in producing science or consuming science, but they may not have the English or the access to journals data bases to do those things. So we have here this kind of tradeoff between this approach of we need to publish open access for everybody but we have this restriction where if people don’t have the English or the access they cannot be a part of this game.\"\n\nHis main contribution to educational theory is the concept of “invisible learning,” the idea that most of what people learn comes from doing new things, rather than through explicit instruction. He promotes “invisible learning” not as a theory but as a meta-theory with the aim of incorporating different ideas and perspectives and as a “work in progress.” It is highly influenced by the notion and values of open source in the sense that it should be developed collaboratively. The idea is convert the classroom into a laboratory, incubatory or taller instead of a place for monologues.\n"}
{"id": "16824342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16824342", "title": "Daniel Melingo", "text": "Daniel Melingo\n\nDaniel Melingo (born October 22, 1957) is an Argentine musician, with a background in rock (he played guitar for Los Twist and saxophone for Los Abuelos de la Nada). He is now a tango artist and tours with his band Los Ramones del tango.\n\nMelingo was exposed to music since his childhood days, as his stepfather was Edmundo Rivero's manager. After playing for some time with Brazilian singer Milton Nascimento, Melingo was active in the Buenos Aires independent theater scene in the early 1980s, under the military dictatorship. When the restrictions on cultural activities eased after the Falklands war, Melingo became a notable participant in projects such as a rock opera version of \"Dr. Moreau's Trials\", masterminded by Victor Kesselman, and Los Twist, a fun band with echoes of The B-52's. He was called by Cachorro López to play the sax in the Abuelos de la Nada reunion, where he was, according to colleague Andrés Calamaro, the person who established the band's musical direction.\n\nAfter the Abuelos and Twist, Melingo spent time in Spain, where he formed a band named Lions in Love. Back in Argentina, he issued a disc based on the mythical Argentine graphic novel El Eternauta, and later on turned to tango singer. He has issued several recordings to critical acclaim, toured the world, and was hailed by the British press as \"the man who's making tango seriously cool\" .\n\nWith David Murray\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7168854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7168854", "title": "Doc Scurlock", "text": "Doc Scurlock\n\nJosiah Gordon \"Doc\" Scurlock (January 11, 1849 – July 25, 1929) was an American Old West figure, cowboy, and gunfighter. A founding member of the Regulators during the Lincoln County War in New Mexico, Scurlock rode alongside such men as Billy the Kid.\n\nHe was born in Tallapoosa County, Alabama, the sixth of 11 children born to Priestly Norman Scurlock (July 3, 1806 – June 22, 1876) and Esther Ann Brown (May 19, 1819 – June 1, 1903). Josiah was said to have studied medicine in New Orleans, thus receiving his nickname \"Doc\".\n\nDescribed as tall, weighing , with brown eyes and dark blond hair, Doc went to Mexico in about 1870. While there, he and another man had an argument over a card game and drew their pistols. The other man shot first and the bullet went through Doc's mouth, knocking out his front teeth and coming out the back of his neck without any more serious damage. He quickly returned fire and killed the man who shot him.\n\nScurlock returned to the United States in 1871 and went to work as a line rider for John Chisum. He and other riders were also used to defend Chisum and his cattle holdings in the event cattle rustlers attempted to prey on them. Sometime during 1873, he and Jack Holt were surprised by a group of Native Americans and Holt was killed. Scurlock found refuge among some rocks and, after a protracted fight, he killed the Native American leader. During the night he slipped away and walked for help. At some time after the fight, Holt's body was presumably partially dismembered, as his right arm was removed at the elbow.\n\nIn September 1875, Scurlock's riding partner, Newt Higgins, was killed by Native Americans. Scurlock was so upset over this incident he told Chisum he wanted to quit. Chisum, however, would not hear of it and refused to pay him. Scurlock then made the newspapers when he stole three horses, two saddles, and a rifle and left for Arizona. Chisum sent some of his men after Scurlock and they caught up with him, but when he explained that he took the things because Chisum would not pay him, they agreed with him and let him go.\n\nIn Arizona, he met Charlie Bowdre and the two men opened a cheese factory on the Gila River. Some of Scurlock and Bowdre's descendants have said that one of their first employees was Billy the Kid. After they closed the cheese factory in the spring of 1876, Scurlock and his best friend, Bowdre, returned to Lincoln County, New Mexico, where they bought a ranch on public domain land on the Rio Ruidoso from L. G. Murphy on credit, which made them victims of the L. G. Murphy & Co. monopoly.\n\nScurlock, Bowdre, Frank Coe, George Coe, and Ab Saunders stormed the very weak Lincoln jail on July 18, 1876, freeing cattle rustler Jesus Largo from the custody of Sheriff Saturnino Baca. They took Largo outside of town and hanged him. Scurlock accidentally shot and killed his friend, Mike G. Harkins, manager of John H. Riley's store at Blazer's Mill, while he was examining a pistol on September 2, 1876.\n\nOn October 19, 1876, Scurlock and María Antonia Miguela Herrera (June 13, 1860 – November 27, 1912) were married in Lincoln, New Mexico. (Around the same time, Antonia's sister, Manuela Herrera, married Charlie Bowdre, which made Bowdre a brother-in-law of Scurlock.) Ten children were eventually born of Scurlock and Antonia's union.\n\nFor over a year, Scurlock was in several posses to pursue and arrest horse thieves. He, Bowdre, and others lynched some of the thieves they caught. In January 1877, Scurlock and a neighbor, George Coe, were arrested by Sheriff William J. Brady for suspicion of harboring a murdering fugitive and member of the Jesse Evans Gang named Frank Freeman. For the next few days, Scurlock and Coe received very harsh treatment from Brady. They were allegedly tortured, but were eventually released. In October 1877, the Evans Gang stole horses belonging to John Tunstall, Alexander McSween, and Richard \"Dick\" Brewer from Brewer's Rio Ruidoso ranch. Scurlock and Bowdre, as well as Brewer, went off in pursuit of the Evans Gang and located them, but were unable to regain possession of the stolen horses.\n\nAfter Tunstall was murdered in February 1878, Scurlock became a founding member of the Regulators and was involved in most of the battles of the Lincoln County War. In the Gunfight of Blazer's Mills on April 4, Scurlock was shot in the leg by Buckshot Roberts. Scurlock later became the third and final leader of the Regulators, after prior leaders Dick Brewer and Frank McNab had been killed.\n\nScurlock served as a deputy sheriff under Sheriff John Copeland, who was a McSween partisan and replaced Sheriff Brady. On May 14, 1878, he led a posse of 18 to 20 men, which included Billy the Kid, Bowdre, George Coe, Brown, and Scroggins, to the Dolan-Riley cattle ranch, ostensibly in search of those implicated in the killing of MacNab and the wounding of Saunders. According to Riley, they drove off 26 horses and two mules, killed a herder named Wair; a Navajo Indian employed at the ranch as a cook; and a 15-year-old boy called Johnny. However, W.T. Thornton, Thomas B. Catron's law partner, reported that the latter two were only wounded. Writer Robert M. Utley says that they captured a man named \"Indian\" Manuel Segovia, the likely shooter of McNab, but he was shot while allegedly trying to escape.\n\nSince Catron had foreclosed on the property of J. J. Dolan & Co., the horses appear to have been his property. As a result of his strong protest to the governor, Copeland was removed as sheriff due to his refusing to side with the Murphy-Dolan faction. The raid by the Regulators resulted in the removal of one of their partisans from a position of authority and his replacement with George Peppin, who was just as strongly attached to the other side.\n\nWhen Billy attempted to make a deal with Governor Lew Wallace, Scurlock was captured and held in custody with him. He was held on suspicion of the murder of \"Buckshot\" Roberts. When Wallace's deal fell through, Billy and Scurlock were told they were going to be charged. Faced with extradition for a murder, on June 17, 1879, Billy and Scurlock rode out of Lincoln. Sheriff Kimball did nothing to stop them. In August Billy and associates stole a large number of cattle from Chisum. After Chisum sent a posse after them, Scurlock decided to leave the gang.\n\nIn about October or November 1879, Scurlock moved to Texas, where he settled down and became a highly respected citizen. On the 1880 census in Potter County, Texas, he was keeping the mail station.\n\nDoc Scurlock died at age 80 from a heart attack in Eastland, Texas. He is interred in Eastland City Cemetery, along with his wife and other family members.\n\nIn the western film, \"Young Guns\", Scurlock was portrayed by actor Kiefer Sutherland, as a polite, moral, poetry writing cowboy. At the end of the film, Scurlock left Billy the Kid's posse, fleeing from New Mexico with an Asian woman he fell for earlier in the movie in the hopes of starting a new life in the East.\n\nIn the sequel, \"Young Guns II\", Scurlock (again played by Sutherland) is serving as a school teacher in New York City when he is arrested and taken back to New Mexico, where he is saved from hanging by The Kid. He rejoins Billy's posse and is mortally wounded in an ambush led by John W. Poe, played by Viggo Mortensen, when he steps out of their hideout. Back inside, he staggers out again to be killed in a hail of bullets. This is based on the death of Charlie Bowdre in an ambush organized by Pat Garrett. In fact Scurlock was married to a Spanish woman in 1876 and died peacefully in Texas many years after the period of time covered by the movie. The original \"Young Guns II\" screenplay accurately portrays Scurlock as heading off to Texas with his bride. It has been reported that Kiefer Sutherland, faced with scheduling conflicts, refused to return to the Young Guns franchise unless his character died in the movie's \"Stinking Springs Shoot Out\". Writer John Fusco fought against this demand, but ultimately rewrote the scene to accommodate Sutherland's schedule.\n\n"}
{"id": "736340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=736340", "title": "Ferenc Kazinczy", "text": "Ferenc Kazinczy\n\nFerenc Kazinczy (in older English: Francis Kazinczy, October 27, 1759 – August 23, 1831) was a Hungarian author, poet, translator, neologist, the most indefatigable agent in the regeneration of the Hungarian language and literature at the turn of the 19th century. Today his name is connected with the extensive Language Reform of the 19th century, when thousands of words were coined or revived, enabling the Hungarian language to keep up with scientific progress and become an official language of the nation in 1844. For his linguistic and literary works he is regarded as one of the cultural founders of the Hungarian Reform Era along with Dávid Baróti Szabó, Ferenc Verseghy, György Bessenyei, Mátyás Rát and János Kis.\n\nFerenc Kazinczy was born in Érsemjén, Bihar, Kingdom of Hungary (today Șimian, Romania). His father, József Kazinczy de Kazincz (1732-1784) came from an old noble family and worked as a magistrate at Abaúj County. His mother was Zsuzsanna Bossányi de Nagybossány (1740-1812). Ferenc had four brothers and four sisters. Until the age of eight he was brought up by his maternal grandfather, Ferenc Bossányi, the notary of Bihar County and parliamentary ambassador, where he did not hear any foreign word during his first seven years.\n\nHe wrote his first letters in December 1764 to his parents who lived in Alsóregmec at that time. In 1766 his aunt got sick, therefore they moved to Debrecen for three months for the healing treatment. Kazinczy studied during that time at the College of Debrecen. After the death of his aunt he returned to his parents where he learnt Latin and German from a student of the College of Késmárk (today Kežmarok, Slovakia). His well educated and enlightened father, experiencing rare susceptibility, was delighted with his son, so he also taught him and communicated with him in Latin and German. Kazinczy continued his language studies in Késmárk in 1768 in a preparatory class.\n\nHis father, József Kazinczy, initially wanted Ferenc to become a soldier, but Ferenc's resistance and the development of his other especially literary talents diverged him from his intent, and then he wanted to see his son as a writer. However the father, as a pietistic educator, understood under the profession of a writer a religious one, and therefore ordered his fourteen-year-old son to translate Christian Fürchtegott Gellert's dissertations on religion from Latin to Hungarian. Otherwise, the father provided his son advanced education: Ferenc was educated in foreign languages, could practice fine art and music, and for seeing the world, he brought him to county assemblies and for the lunch of the emperor, Joseph II when the ruler visited Sárospatak. In 1774 the father urged his son to continue his translations, but Ferenc preferred to spend time reading György Bessenyei's Ágis tragédiája (1772), Ignác Mészáros's Kártigám (1772) and other belles-lettres works. He broadened his knowledge with the idylls of Salomon Gessner and the poems of Vergilius, Horace, Anacreon.\n\nHe did not neglect his theological studies, and even at home they frequently debated over theological topics during lunch and dinner. After his father's death in 1774, he continued to pursue the translation of Christian Fürchtegott Gellert's \"De religione\" until his teacher of theology dismissed him to do it because he found Gellert's works too difficult to interpret. Ferenc turned slowly from theological to more secular and national topics and prepared a short geographical description of the country. István Losonczi Hányoki's \"Three Small Mirrors\" served as an example for his work. It was a childish compilation with the title \"Geography of Hungary...\" , which he later described as \"suddenly scribbled\" and was published in Kassa, Hungary (today Košice, Slovakia) at his mother's expense in 1775.\n\nOn September 11, 1769, he became a student at the College of Sárospatak where he taught himself Ancient Greek. He studied philosophy and law during his first years. In 1773 he started to learn rhetoric. Even in the same year December he greeted General Count Miklós Beleznay as a member of the thanksgiving delegation of the college in Bugyi on a special reception for donating money toward the construction of the college. Then Kazinczy saw Pest for the first time. Until 1775 he attended the theology courses at the college and from a French soldier who came to Sárospatak learnt French.\n\nHe translated György Bessenyei's short story written in German, \"Die Amerikaner\", to Hungarian and published it in 1776 in Kassa with the title \"Az amerikai Podoc és Kazimir keresztyén vallásra való megtérése\" (\"\"). He recommended his translation to his mother. This work informed him about Deism and the principle of religious tolerance. In his translation Kazinczy used the word \"világosság\" (meaning \"clarity\", \"lucidity\") the first time in the history of the Hungarian language. Bessenyei welcomed it and his response was inspirational for Kazinczy. Kazinczy understood Bessenyei's response as a liberating letter for the profession of an author. He was happy finding the contact with one of the most prominent authors in Hungarian literature of that time. But Kazinczy did not become a follower of Bessenyei, because Bessenyei as a culture politician and philosopher did not mature his works so much so that he could create a literary school.\n\nFerenc's uncle was a member of the delegation of Zemplén County in Vienna at the royal court and he took the young Kazinczy along. This travel made a huge impact on him. It was the first time that Kazinczy saw the emperor's city, whose magnificent collections, especially his pictures, completely enthralled him.\n\nAt that time Kazinczy followed the thoughts of Salomon Gessner, Christoph Martin Wieland and Dávid Baróti Szabó. Later he got Sándor Báróczi's translation of Jean-François Marmontel's \"Contes Moraux\" (\"\") from the librarian of Sárospatak, which became his favourite book and he later took it along also in the prison. So he decided to seek after how can he lay a wreath on Báróczi's works. What fascinated him was this beautiful new style, the rhythmically arranged packing of sentences, the rigidity and purity of the language with a dramatic compactness, and the French strangeness which made the translation truly incomprehensible for simple litterateurs. It showed Kazinczy a sample for the cultivation of Hungarian belles-lettres. Thus after being primarily inspired by Bessenyi he found himself a life goal as a translator and cultivator of the Hungarian language.\n\nAfter finishing his studies he travelled to Kassa on September 9, 1779, to meet Sámuel Milecz, the prosecutor of Tolna County, where he did his practice of law and first met his young love, Erzsébet Rozgonyi and one of his role models, Dávid Baróti Szabó. He stayed there until October 18.\n\nHis world-view crises occurred during his stay in Kassa. He turned away from the religious thesis and \"useless\" theological studies. Between 1779 and 1781 Kazinczy joined the laic, deist perception of religion which was completely cleaned from dogmas. The artistic cult of beauty replaced the lost religious experience. His enthusiasm for beauty became his passion, filling his whole individuality and worldview. In about 1780 he started his first major literary work, the translation of Salomon Gessner's writings among others. Soon after that he published the Hungarian version of \"Siegwart\" in 1783. Because of his translations he came in contact with several foreign authors and corresponded with Gessner, Johann Kaspar Lavater and Daniel Chodowiecki. His connection with renowned European scholars awoke in him the feeling of being chosen. So after Rousseau he stated his own conscious separation from ordinary people.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1779, he met Miklós Révai in Nagyvárad, Hungary (today Oradea, Romania). Révai was a grammarian who acclimatized the analysing of words according to the rules of morphology in the Hungarian language. They became friends and often shared their own ideas about literature and grammar with each other.\n\nBetween January 11, 1781 and June 2, 1782, he continued his practice of law in Eperjes, Hungary (today Prešov, Slovakia). Besides his job he spent a lot of time with arts, too: dancing, playing the flute, drawing, painting and reading. His favourites were especially the German writers. During this time in Eperjes he fell in love with an \"educated girl\", the daughter of Ninos Steinmetz, who had a great influence on him.\n\nHe continued his practice of law in August 1782 in Pest where he was sworn in as a hired clerk of József Bernáth. During his time in Pest he came in contact with two older, prominent authors, Lőrinc Orczy and . Ráday introduced him even more to knowledge of Western literature, but also to an appreciation of the old Hungarian writers, especially Miklós Zrínyi. This friendship greatly developed Kazinczy's aesthetic sense and broadened his horizons. Kazinczy was still working on the translations of Salomon Gessner's idylls and showed them to Ráday and Báróczi. Their enthusiastic acknowledgement greatly enhanced his writer ambition. The fact that Kazinczy was working a lot on the translations of Gessner's maudlin, sentimental idylls, was partly brought by the sentimental trend at the time, but on the other hand, Kazinczy intended to practice the Hungarian prose in the depiction of emotions and expression of fond moods.\n\nHe found himself soon in a more lively intellectual and political life in Pest and became interested in the church policies of Joseph II which were born in the spirit of absolutism.\n\nMiklós Beleznay, József Teleki, Gedeon Ráday and László Prónay were working on the preparation of the Patent of Toleration in 1781 just when Kazinczy became their trustworthy man. As a Protestant Kazinczy was glad to be so close to the \"champions of Protestant freedom\". The policies of the emperor on religious tolerance, on the press, and on the permission for Protestants to hold office strengthened his beliefs in his Freemasonry convictions of believing in the illusion of the \"brightness\" coming from above. Already in Miskolc, he became a member of the secret society in early 1784 which generally supported the civilization process. It had a major role in the refinement of morals and tastes, unlike the former religiosity, it captured rather the recently alienated members of the biblical religions with a mystical, mostly naturalistic mysticism. Kazinczy later, in the beginning of the 1890s, started to sympathize with the ideas of the Illuminati order, and wrote about them enthusiastically to György Aranka: \"their goals are... evertere superstitionem, opprimere Tyrannismum, benefacere ()... is it not the sweetest happiness of life?\".\n\nIn 1783 he returned to his mother in Alsóregmec, who encouraged him to travel to Tarnaörs to Baron Lőrinc Orczy to accept a job as honorary clerk. On October 13, 1784, he was appointed to this job and then in the same month to magistrate in Abaúj County. On November 29, he also gained a post of vice-notary in Zemplén County, but he had a disagreement with the chief notary and therefore almost immediately lost his position.\n\nCount Lajos Török, the father of Ferenc's prospective wife, was Director-General of the Kassa School District and the Grand Master of the Masonic lodge of Miskolc and a friend of Kazinczy. On January 16, 1784, Lajos took Kazinczy among the members of the lodge. As a freemason, Kazinczy got to know several intellectuals like Angelo Soliman and Ignaz Born.\n\nIn August 1785, he traveled to Vienna to introduce himself to the Minister of Public Education, Gottfried van Swieten, and to request the inspectorate of the county schools of the following Counties: Szepes, Sáros, Zemplén, Ung, Bereg, Gömör, Torna, Abaúj, Borsod, Heves and the autonomies of Jászság és Kiskunság. On November 11 he was nominated for this position, which he held for five years.\n\nFrom 1785 to 1790 Kazinczy was known as the \"apostle of renewing Hungarian education\". As a supervisor he had a well paid job and a wide range of power. But even his school-organizing practice turned him against the churches and his brothers of faith whom he had been friends with during the early eighties. He lived in Kassa, travelled a lot in Upper and Eastern Hungary, established and controlled schools. His superiors were satisfied with him and his results. He took over 79 functioning schools as he started working in his position. This number rose rapidly to 124 of which 19 were common schools where pupils belonging to different denominations received state-funded joint education.\n\nFinally he finished the translations of Salomon Gessner's idylls and published them in one book with the title \"Gessner Idylliumi\" in 1788 in Kassa. Its preface dates back to summer 1785 and was written to Gedeon Ráday. During his demanding works on the book, which he did with great care, he could count on the help of the author, Salomon Gessner and, after his death, on the help of his widow. It was Kazinczy's first world-famous translation and brought him recognition and appreciation abroad. He paid particular attention to the content and stylistic fidelity, accuracy, and musical rhythm of the language.\n\nGessner's classical idyllic world expresses Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock's sentimentality in a pseudo environment. His middle-class optimism keeps all disturbances away from its reader. Its Roccoco emotions are remotely related to Jean-Jacques Rousseau's world of thoughts, but it is rather a sweeter and simpler happiness offering version of that. By turning away from civilization and retreating into the \"ancient beautiful\" times, Gessner criticizes society, but at the same time brings us into a middle-class ideal world. As an enlightened, emotionally educated young man, this feeling of life was no stranger to him, but he was particularly delighted with the sophisticated style of the work.\n\nHis emotional world was refined by the saloon life of Kassa, whose social pleasures he felt as delightful as the Freemasonry ceremonies which he often attended. His desires were tense between Teréz Radvánszky and Zsuzsanna Kácsándy. For the \"nice companies\" gathered in the saloons of the Török, Kácsándy and Bárcsay families and for female members of the Freemasonry he addressed his \"Bácsmegyeynek öszve-szedett levelei\" () in 1789. It was a translation of Albrecht Christoph Kayser's \"Adolfs gesammelte Briefe\" which was a pastiche of Werther. This form of translation, which differs from the principle of faithful translation followed during his works on the \"Gessner Idylliumi\", was common in Hungarian literature at that time, but not in such a way as Kazinczy did in his \"Bácsmegyeynek öszve-szedett levelei\". He moved the figure and scene of Kayser's original novel into the role of his friends and into the scenes of their frequent gatherings which showed a rare example of personal self-expression in translation. In some cases his protagonist openly attacks the estates of the realm as a limitation of freedom for humans and emotions. The first edition was indeed a great success in Hungarian public life. Ádám Pálóczi Horváth, János Földi, Mihály Csokonai Vitéz, Sándor Kisfaludy, Mihailo Vitković and Benedek Virág enthusiastically welcomed it. However Kazinczy also received criticism from conservative writers and from his teachers in Sárospatak.\n\nOn November 13, 1787 Kazinczy together with Dávid Szabó Baróti and János Batsányi in order to organize the literary movements of the Hungarian literature of that era established the \"Magyar Museum\" periodical. This was the first literary magazine in Hungarian language. But already after the first edition Kazinczy got into a debate on what kind of direction do they want to give to their periodical. Kazinczy recommended the title \"Magyar Parnassus\" instead of \"Magyar Museum\" and thought of a belles-lettres-like magazine with translations and critics. Batsányi wanted to create a more general and practical journal. Their political disagreement was deepend by the debate. Kazinczy was a Josephinist, a follower of Joseph II. Unlike Batsányi who was known as a member of the reform movement. Kazinczy soon left the editorial of the periodical.\n\nOne of the most difficult time of his life came as Kazinczy became so seriously ill that on May 31, 1789 he had abandoned his life. In Kassa people already talked about his death. But he suddenly got better and quickly recovered.\n\nIn November 1789 Kazinczy established his own periodical and titled it \"Orpheus\" after his own Freemason name. During its operation between 1789 and 1792 only 8 numbers were published in 2 volumes. He wrote his essays under the name \"Vince Széphalmy\". Kazinczy faced two problems that threatened the existence of his journal and led to its closure. Firstly beside his aim to improve the Hungarian language on a perfect level he also popularised the ideas of Voltaire and other Freemason philosophers. Secondly, his \"Orpheus\" was not so popular as the \"Magyar Museum\" and was financially unsustainable in the long run. Two years after the \"Orpheus\", the \"Magyar Museum\" also ceased in 1794 because of its editors were accused being members of the Jacobin movement of Ignác Martinovics.\n\nThe Holy Crown was brought to Hungary in 1790. Kazinczy was a member of the Crown Guard. In the crown's room, as a member of the Honor Guard of Abaúj County, he translated Friedrich Ludwig Schröder's \"Hamlet\" and wrote his letter to László Prónay, Ispán of Csanád, in which he spoke in favor of Hungarian acting. He went to Kassa, and later to Buda when the efforts of Hungarian acting intensified there. Between September and October in 1790 he started to organize with the help of Pál Ráday the acting in Buda in Hungarian language. However, he had to travel home due to his official affairs.\n\nIn his \"Hadi és Más Nevezetes Történetek\" (\"\") he took side against the \"student language\" (Latin language) and later published an impulsive article in favour of the introduction of the Hungarian language in schools and public life.\n\nAfter the death of Joseph II the earlier system collapsed. The next emperor, Leopold II abolished the \"common schools\" in 1791 and Kazinczy's office was cancelled. He lost his job for the reason that \"I am not a Roman Catholic\", he wrote later in a letter.\n\nHe did not want to apply for a job as an officer again. But on request of his mother and his uncle, András Kazinczy, he travelled to Vienna on May 7 to meet the emperor who was then unfortunately in Pisa. Kazinczy returned to Pest on a ship, and after ten days he went to Székesfehérvár to meet Benedek Virág and Ádám Pálóczi Horváth. From there he came back to Vienna, where he was welcomed by the Crown Prince Francis on August 15, but his request was not heard. In Vienna Kazinczy made a friendship with József Hajnóczy. Kazinczy arrived home on September 10 and spent the winter in Alsóregmec.\n\nAfter the death of Leopold II his successor, Francis I, came to the throne. He convoked the National Assembly in Buda. In May 1792 Kazinczy sat in the Lower Chamber as an envoy of Baron Ferenc Vécsey. On June 17 he went to the emperor to apply for the secretary position of the chamber of the royal court. But this office was already reserved by József Hajnóczy.\n\nAfter the end of the National Assembly Kazinczy returned home and worked in Alsóregmec for a year and a half until 1794. This time of his life was especially productive. He published one after another his translated and original pieces: \"Helikoni virágok 1791. esztendőre\" (, Pozsony 1791), \"Lanassza\" (tragedy in 4 acts, after Lemierre, Pozsony 1793), \"Sztella\" (drama 5 acts, after Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's work, Pozsony 1794.) \"A vak lantos\" (after Leonhard Wächter's work). In addition, he published the tales of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing in the translation of his friend János Aszalai with his own adaptation at his own expense. He translated also: \"Helikoni virágok\" volume 2, first 10 songs of Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock's \"Der Messias\" in prose, one part of Christoph Martin Wieland's \"Die Gratien\", Gotthold Ephraim Lessing's \"Emilia Galotti\", William Shakespeare's \"Macbeth\", Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's \"Brüder\", \"Egmont\" and \"Clavigo\", two plays from Molière: \"Le Mariage forcé\" and \"Le Médecin malgré lui\", Pietro Metastasio's \"Temistocle\"; idylls from Salomon Gessner's 15 times revised and a philosophical play from Samuel Christian Hollmann \"Die Oekonomie der Natur\".\n\nDuring that time he experienced that several enlightened policies of Joseph II which were born in the spirit of Absolutism had been repealed and he thought that the system shifted in the wrong direction. He made an intense attack on the existing order in his translation of Christoph Martin Wieland's \"Sokrates mainomenos oder die Dialoge des Diogenes von Sinope\" which was published in 1793. His dominant worldview reflects in the book with the arrogance of the clerics, the abandonment of the existing society, and the escape from this world. It was quickly banned.\n\nMenyhért Szulyovszky, a member of Ignác Martinovics's Jacobin movement, handed over to him the \"Forradalmi Káté\" () during the county assembly. On the inauguration of the chief-ispán of Nagykároly (today Carei, Romania), Ferenc Kazinczy and his brother Dienes Kazinczy disputed, together with Ferenc Szentmarjay and György Szlávy, joining Ignác Martinovics's Jacobin movement. In the beginning Kazinczy felt insecure to copy the \"Forradalmi Káté\", but Szentmarjay dispelled his concerns. Kazinczy liked the idea of the \"bloodless revolution\" which the movement propagated.\n\nHe was arrested on December 14, 1794, at his mother's house in Alsóregmec. He was brought to Buda and had to wait for the judgement in the Franciscan monastery of Buda. On May 8, 1795, the blood court sentenced him to death and his cattle had to be taken away. The decision was confirmed by the seven-person board. For three weeks he lived in the shadow of a sure death. Then partly by the intervention of his relatives, the emperor changed his sentence to imprisonment for an uncertain time.\n\nHe stayed in Buda until September 27. Then he was taken to Brünn (today Brno, Czech Republic), in the prison of the Špilberk Castle where he arrived on October 7. He lived in a damp, underground jail and got so sick that he could not get up from his bed. Sometimes his stationery were taken away from him; then he wrote with rust paint and rarely with his own blood. He used as pen a kneaded tin piece from the window. When he was allowed to use pen and ink he sat at his table and corrected his earlier translations or was working on new ones. Later his life conditions became better. On the order of Archduke Joseph he was placed on an upper floor on December 21 where he could live at his own expense and could use his books.\n\nOn January 6, 1796, he was brought to the Prison of Obrowitz (today Zábrdovice, Czech Republic) near Brno, and on June 22, 1799, he was transferred further to Kufstein Fortress.\n\nOn June 30, 1800, his captors fearing the approaching French armies, he was taken first to Bratislava and then to Pest and finally to Munkács (today Mukachevo, Ukraine).\n\nOn June 28, 1801, Kazinczy received amnesty from the king, who set him free and allowed him to return home. He spent a total of 2387 days (roughly 6½ years) in prison. He eternalized this part of his life in his book \"Fogságom naplója\" (\"\").\n\nFollowing his release from captivity his fellow writers welcomed him gladly. But Kazinczy withdrew from the public.\n\nWhen he was imprisoned, the value of his property was about twenty thousand forints, of which a significant part was spent on the cost of his captivity. He had nothing more than his grapefield and his hill in Kisbányácska near Sátoraljaújhely which he called \"Széphalom\" (\"\"). In the winter of 1804 he again became seriously ill, but was luckily cured by József Szentgyörgyi, the chief doctor of Debrecen, in the same year. Szentgyörgyi became his friend and so they corresponded a lot in later years.\n\nIn 1806 he settled in Széphalom, where only three rooms were ready from the new mansion. The love of his mother and her joy in the growing family somewhat compensated for the sufferings that had not come to an end with his release. He was constantly struggling with financial difficulties, since after his imprisonment, he had to clear the accounts he was charged with, and later he had to raise his children.\n\nShortly afterwards he married , daughter of his former patron, and retired to his small estate at Széphalom or \"Fairhill\", near Sátoraljaújhely (Széphalom is already a part of Sátoraljaújhely), in the county of Zemplén. In 1828 he took an active part in the conferences held for the establishment of the Hungarian academy, in the historical section of which he became the first corresponding member. He died of cholera at Széphalom.\n\nKazinczy, known for possessing great beauty of style, was inspired greatly by the masterpieces of Lessing, Goethe, Wieland, Klopstock, Ossian, La Rochefoucauld, Marmontel, Molière, Metastasio, Shakespeare, Sterne, Cicero, Sallust, Anacreon, and many others. He also edited the works of (Pest, 1812, 8 vols.) and of the poet Zrinyi (1817, 2 vols.), and the poems of Dayka (1813, 3 vols.) and of John Kis (1815, 3 vols.).\n\nA collected edition of his works, consisting for the most part of translations, was published at Pest, 1814-1816, in nine volumes. original productions (\"Eredeti Munkái\"), largely made up of letters, were edited by Joseph Bajza and Francis Toldy at Pest, 1836-1845, in five volumes. Editions of his poems appeared in 1858 and 1863.\n\nIn 1873, a neo-classicistic memorial hall (mausoleum) and graveyard was built in Széphalom in his memory, based on the plans of the architect Miklós Ybl. Today it belongs to the Ottó Herman Museum. The Museum of the Hungarian Language is intended to be built here, whose cornerstone has been laid in the park.\n\nOn November 11, 1804, he married the daughter of his former principal, Count Lajos Török in Nagykázmér (today Kazimír, Slovakia). His wife, Sophie Török, was 21 years younger than Kazinczy and came from a rich and prominent family. Kazinczy regarded himself for years not appropriate to her. He writes in his diary why he chose Sophie:\n\nSophie married Kazinczy because of love, and her father regarded his daughter's husband as a friend of his.\n\nThey lived together for almost 27 years, often struggling with serious financial problems, but according to their diaries and letters their life together was happy. They had four sons and four daughters. Unfortunately the firstborn daughter died in infancy in 1806.\n\nWhile Kazinczy organized the Hungarian literary life, Sophie was most concerned with housekeeping and child rearing. She also taught other children of friends beside her own. According to Kazinczy's writings she knew well the herbs and the preparation of home-made medicine and therefore she could help many infected people during the cholera epidemic of 1831.\n\nThe youngest son of Kazinczy became a soldier and later an army colonel. He fought in the Hungarian War of Independence of 1848-1849 and after the defeat of the uprising he was executed. He was afterwards named the Fifteenth Martyr of Arad.\n\"Tövisek és virágok\" 1811. <br>\n\"Poétai episztola Vitkovics Mihályhoz\" 1811.<br>\n\"Ortológus és neológus nálunk és más nemzeteknél\" 1819.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "951713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=951713", "title": "Georges Valois", "text": "Georges Valois\n\nGeorges Valois (real name \"Alfred-Georges Gressent\"; 7 October 1878 – February 1945) was a French journalist and politician, born in Paris. He was a member of the French resistance and died in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp.\n\nBorn in a working-class and peasant family, Georges Valois went to Singapore at the age of 17, returning to Paris in 1898. In his early years he was an Anarcho-syndicalist. He found work as a secretary at \"L'Humanité Nouvelle\" where he met Georges Sorel. Later, after a stay in Imperial Russia (1903), Gressent worked as a secretary at Armand Colin publishing house.\n\nAfter having written his first book, \"L'Homme qui vient\", he met the nationalist and monarchist writer Charles Maurras and became a member of his \"Action Française\" (AF) league, where he continued to follow the workers' movement. As his employment would have been compromised by an involvement in the far-right monarchist league, he took the pseudonym of Georges Valois.\n\nIn 1911, he created the \"Cercle Proudhon\", a syndicalist group, and took direction of the AF's publishing house, the \"Nouvelle librairie nationale\", in 1912. The \"Cercle\" mixed Sorel's influence with the \"Integralism\" favored by Charles Maurras, and was overtly antisemitic. According to historian Zeev Sternhell, this ideology was the prefiguration of Italian fascism.\n\nIn 1925 Valois founded the weekly \"Le Nouveau Siècle\" (The New Century), seen by Maurras as a potential rival. As a result, he lost his job at the AF's publishing house, \"La Nouvelle librairie nationale\". The rupture with Maurras became even more serious after his creation, the same year, of the \"Faisceau\" league. \nHis long-term collaborator Jacques Arthuys was one of the leaders of the new league.\nIt was the first overtly Fascist party outside Italy, assisted by major entrepreneurs in their fight against the agitation of the French Communist Party (PCF). After some initial success (it was joined by such extremist figures as Hubert Lagardelle and Marcel Bucard), it disappeared in 1928, by which time Valois himself had already been excluded from the party. The middle-class may have withdrawn its support due to its lack of confidence in Fascism as a plausible solution for France, or because it considered, following a trend established by the Catholic Church (which, in 1926, excommunicated the AF), that the best solution was to infiltrate the republican institutions.\n\nValois lost financial support, and after the dissolving of the \"Faisceau\" league in 1928, he founded the Republican Syndicalist Party (PRS). Jacques Arthuys was also a leader of this party.\nDuring the Second Cartel des gauches (Left-wing Coalition), this party published the \"Cahiers bleus\" (1928–1932), which hosted essays by widely different personalities, including Marcel Déat (a future neo-socialist excluded from the French Section of the Workers' International (SFIO) and then Collaborationist), Bertrand de Jouvenel (co-founder of the Mont Pelerin Society, a liberal organisation that exists to this day), Pierre Mendès France (one of the young guards or \"jeunes loups\" of the Radical-Socialist Party, he was to become Prime Minister of the Fourth Republic), and Edouard Berth.\n\nAfter the 6 February 1934 crisis, Valois founded \"Le Nouvel Age\" (The New Era), which he presented as a left-wing review - along with the \"Cahiers bleus\", however, \"Le Nouvel Age\", which claimed to promote a post-Capitalist economy, was nonetheless advertising itself as corporatist. In 1935, he attempted to join the SFIO, but was turned down, although being backed by Marceau Pivert.\n\nHe took part in the Resistance during Vichy. During World War II, he moved near Lyon where he launched a cultural cooperative project. Georges Valois was finally arrested by the Nazis on 18 May 1944, and died in February 1945 of typhus at the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54439627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54439627", "title": "Grzegorz Gawlik", "text": "Grzegorz Gawlik\n\nGrzegorz Gawlik (born 6 May 1980) is a Polish traveler, mountaineer, volcanoes explorer, journalist, photographer and lawyer.\n\nHe has traveled several hundred journeys to about 100 countries on six continents.\n\nAuthor of the 100 VOLCANOES PROJECT. He has been working on the project since 2006. In 2016 the project was halfway through. Project assumptions. At least half the volcanoes must be active. Volcanoes are precisely tailored, difficult to access and very interesting in terms of exploratory and scientific. Often wild, most active, the highest.\n\nGawlik has explored volcanoes of heights of 0 – 6896 m, in many countries, on different continents and in different climates. Among other things, he discovered the highest lakes in the world on the Ojos del Salado volcano and found that the highest active volcano in the world is Llullaillaco.\n\nIn addition, he explored more than 100 other volcanic sites such as geyser fields, geothermal fields, volcanic caves, volcanic deserts, volcanic plateaus, volcanic craters and cones, volcanic rock formations, lava fields.\nHe climbed to about 100 peaks 4-, 5-, 6- and 7-thousand meters in the Himalayas, Andes, Pamir, Caucasus, Cordillera, High Atlas, Tanzania, Borneo and hundreds of lower peaks.\n\nDuring the expeditions, Gawlik explored numerous glaciers and polar regions. Visited several hundred of the most valuable monuments for world heritage. He traveled the largest deserts and plateaus, tropical forests, lakes, rivers, dozens of seas. Visited several hundred islands, caves and the largest cities in the world. Traveled the most famous roads and railway lines.\n\nHe completed law studies at the Silesian University in Katowice and won a plebiscite: The Graduate with Passion in 2014. He is a laureate of travel and journalism prizes.\n\nGawlik cooperates with television channels, radio stations, internet portals, magazines and newspapers.\n"}
{"id": "34792714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34792714", "title": "Hans Möser", "text": "Hans Möser\n\nHans Moeser (April 7, 1906 – November 26, 1948) was a German SS functionary during the Nazi era who served at the Neuengamme, Auschwitz and Mittelbau-Dora concentration camps. He was captured at the end of the war and tried by the United States Military Government Court. The only one among 19 defendants at the Dora Trial sentenced to death, Möser was executed at Landsberg Prison in 1948.\n\nMöser was born in Darmstadt, Germany. A merchant by trade, he joined the Nazi Party in October 1929 (Member No. 155301) and the SS in July 1931 (Member No. 9555). In July 1940 Möser joined the staff at the newly opened SS-Hinzert concentration camp, infamous for its brutality, and later he transferred to Neuengamme. From May 1943 until October 1943 he was posted to the Auschwitz III Monowitz concentration camp as Kompanieführer of the Wachbatallion (Guard Battalion) in IG Farben's \"Buna\" plant. By the end of April 1944 he was also Kompanieführer of the Men on Watch at the Auschwitz I main camp ().\n\nHe transferred to the Dora central camp on May 1, 1944, initially serving as Deputy Protective Custody Camp Leader () and then in July promoted to First Protective Custody Camp Leader. Here he was to commit the atrocities that would lead to his later trial and execution. During hangings of prisoners, for instance, he sometimes had the ropes cut while the victims were still alive so as to prolong their suffering. In February, 1945, as the Red Army overran German positions on the Eastern Front, the SS headquarters personnel at Auschwitz evacuated to Mittelbau-Dora. Auschwitz commander Richard Baer and his staff took over the Dora complex and Möser was again made Deputy Leader, this time under Franz Hößler.\n\nOn April 5, 1945, as American 3rd Armored Division closed in on Mittelbau-Dora, Möser led a forced evacuation of over 3,000 prisoners to the railhead for transfer to Neuengamme. Due to the wartime situation the train was diverted to Ravensbrück concentration camp instead. The prisoners were then led on a death march for the last stage of their journey.\n\nMöser was arrested at the end of the war. Following the June 1945 Fedden Mission investigation of the Dora conditions, Möser was among 19 defendants tried by the American General Military Government Court in the Dora Trial (\"The United States of America versus Arthur Kurt Andrae et al.\", Case Number 000-50-37), part of the Dachau Trials. Proceedings began on July 7, 1947 and lasted until December 30. Möser was found to have been present at hangings and personally shooting prisoners execution-style during escape attempts. The responsibility for the death marches during the final evacuation of Dora were also attributed to Möser. In his trial statement he said: \n\nThe same way, with the same pleasure, as you shoot deer, I shot a human being. When I came to the SS and had to shoot the first three persons, my food didn't taste good for three days, but today it is a pleasure. It is a joy for me.\" \n\nFound guilty, he was the only defendant in the Dora Trial sentenced to death. Following appeals, Möser was executed by hanging at Landsberg Prison on November 26, 1948.\n\n"}
{"id": "56012113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56012113", "title": "Irma Avegno", "text": "Irma Avegno\n\nIrma Avegno (20 December 1881 – June 1913) was a Uruguayan woman of Montevidean high society who devoted herself to financial affairs.\n\nIrma Avegno was the daughter of Emilio Avegno and María de Ávila, according to her birth certificate. She belonged to a wealthy family linked to the land and, politically, to the Colorado Party. Her father was deputy of that party for Artigas Department, and her uncle, Dr. José Romeu, was Secretary of State, both during the second government of José Batlle y Ordóñez.\n\nShe was considered in her own time as a liberal and transgressive person, since she dedicated herself to financial business (she was a moneylender) and to activities traditionally reserved for men, such as betting on horse races. Her openly stated homosexual orientation, which could only be recognized implicitly at the time, also contributed to that perception.\n\nAvegno died in strange circumstances in Lomas de Zamora, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, as a fugitive from Uruguayan justice. The scandal unleashed by the debts that she left after escaping from the country sent a shockwave through the government of Batlle y Ordóñez. The official cause of death was suicide.\n\nHer body was buried in the Central Cemetery of Montevideo, after having arrived on the steamer \"Roma\", which was awaited by a crowd.\n\n"}
{"id": "49014246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49014246", "title": "Ishinagenjo", "text": "Ishinagenjo\n\nIshinagenjo (Japanese: 石投げんじょ, \"stone throwing \"genjo\"\") is a folkloric phenomenon which is documented to occur in the Nishisonogi district of the Nagasaki Prefecture, the waters of Enoshima, and the city of Tosu in the Saga Prefecture.\n\n\"In the month of May, the rainy season, a group of fishermen are working at night in the midst of a thick fog. Suddenly comes the sound of a huge rock crashing into the ocean, a tremendous splash and crack that sends the boat rocking and the sailors panicking. However, there is no rock to be seen, even by the break of day.\"\n\nIn the Japanese Folklore Institute's book \"Comprehensive Lexicon of Japanese Folklore\", the phenomenon is explained as being the doing of a sea monster - or \"Yōkai\" (Japanese: 妖怪, variously translated as \"spectre\", \"monster\", \"goblin\") - known as the Iso Woman, or some other related sea witch. This explanation is echoed in Kunio Yanagita's book \"Yōkai Lectures\", in which Yanagita concurs that the phenomenon is best explained by some oceanic \"Yōkai\". Because of this association, many experts have hypothesised that the \"jo\" - written in Hiragana as \"じょ\" - actually means woman - represented by the Kanji \"女\" - which is the rendering used by folklorist Sakurada Katsunori in her paper \"Ghost Ships and Drowning People\". Written thus, Ishinagenjo (石投女) translates literally to \"stone-throwing woman\". The Kojien, on the other hand, renders \"じょ\" as \"尉\", meaning \"captain\" or \"old man\". The \"stone-throwing old man\" (石投尉) is likened in the text of the Kojien to an old man idly throwing stones into the sea. However, Yōkai expert Murakami Kenji has expressed doubts regarding the existence of any documentary evidence to visually identify the creature responsible for the phenomenon described. Indeed, the Kojien notes that it is assumed that fishermen only imagine seeing a monster, but that ultimately the experience as a whole is merely an illusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "9024865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9024865", "title": "James Alexander Gordon", "text": "James Alexander Gordon\n\nJames Alexander Gordon (10 February 1936 – 18 August 2014) was a Scottish radio broadcaster, best known for reading the classified check of the football results every Saturday at 17:00 on BBC Radio Five Live's \"Sports Report\".\n\nBorn in Edinburgh in 1936, during his youth he was paralysed with polio and he spent a large part of his childhood in hospital. He worked in music publishing before joining the BBC in 1972, becoming an announcer and newsreader (mostly on Radio 2) until the early 1990s. In 1974 he followed in the footsteps of John Webster, reading the classified football results, first on Radio 2 and later on Five Live. \n\nPopularly known as \"Jag\", he used his intonation, when pronouncing the names of the clubs, to indicate whether a match had ended in a home win, away win or draw.\n\nGordon also worked as a freelance voice artist, recording voice-overs and commenting on company videos.\n\nHe announced his retirement from radio in July 2013 following surgery to remove his larynx after being diagnosed with cancer. He was succeeded as the reader of the classified football results by former Radio 4 newsreader Charlotte Green from late September 2013.\n\nGordon reprised his role as announcer of the football results to read fictional results for the play \"Jumpers for Goalposts\".\n\nGordon died of cancer on 18 August 2014, at the Sue Ryder – Duchess of Kent hospice in Reading. He is survived by his wife Julia, son David, and two granddaughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "30145984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30145984", "title": "Jason A. Fox", "text": "Jason A. Fox\n\nJason A. Fox (born 29 December 1983) is a Melbourne based thought leader, author and motivational speaker.\n\nFox's career as a speaker spans fortune 500. As a speaker, he has been a part of numerous self organised events as well as of those organised by others and has also been cited among one of the male speakers who have boycotted all male speaker panels as a way to protest against lack of female representation.\n\nFox was awarded \"Keynote Speaker of the Year\" award for 2016 by Professional Speakers Australia.\n\nJason A. Fox is the best-selling author of \"The Game Changer\". His recent work, \"How to Lead a Quest\", also became a best selling book. Fox's research has been cited by Smart Company, BRW and The Financial Review among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "50238938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50238938", "title": "Juri Camisasca", "text": "Juri Camisasca\n\nRoberto Camisasca (born 9 August 1951), best known as Juri Camisasca, is an Italian singer-songwriter and composer.\n\nBorn in Melegnano, a self-taught musician, Camisasca debuted in 1974 with the progressive rock album \"La finestra dentro\", produced by Pino Massara and Franco Battiato, which received large critical acclaim. In the following years he collaborated as a vocalist and as a songwriter with Battiato and with other singers, and he took part to the musical project Telaio Magnetico. \n\nIn 1979 Camisasca decided to enter a Benedictine monastery, still keeping to be active as a songwriter for artists such as Milva, Alice and Giuni Russo. In 1987 he left the monastic life to embrace an eremitical life at the slopes of Mount Etna. After participating to the Battiato's opera \"Genesi\" as a singer and as the narrating voice, he reprised his record activity in 1988 with the album \"Te Deum\". \n\nCamisasca is also active as an icon painter, an activity he gradually focused in later years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2066055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2066055", "title": "József Dudás", "text": "József Dudás\n\nJózsef Dudás (22 September 1912 - 19 January 1957), an Hungarian politician and resistance fighter, was born in Marosvásárhely (in Romanian: Târgu Mureş) in Austria-Hungary (today in Transylvania, Romania).\n\nAs a very young man, he joined the illegal Communist Party in Transylvania. In 1933 he was arrested and sentenced to nine years in prison. When Northern Transylvania was transferred to Hungary as part of the Second Vienna Award in 1940, he was released and he moved to Budapest. During World War II, he worked within the anti-fascist movement acting as a liaison between groups. When the war ended, Dudás was a member of an unofficial ceasefire delegation that visited Moscow, and he was a founding member of the Liberation Committee of the Hungarian National Uprising.\n\nIn late 1945 he joined the Independent Smallholders' Party and was elected to the Budapest government. As the communists mounted their campaign to take over Hungary, Dudás was arrested and detained until he was handed over to Romanian state security in 1951. Released in 1954, he returned to Hungary.\n\nWorking as an engineer when the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 broke out, he took to addressing crowds and on 29 October, established the Second District National Committee, with a 25-point program demanding, a coalition government, a multi-party system and neutrality. He also started a newspaper (Magyar Függetlenség—Hungarian Independence), which headlined, ‘We do not recognize the present government!’ At this same time the so-called \"Dudás Group\" consisting of about 400 armed men was formed. Dudás soon acquired a bad reputation among the revolutionary forces, as he started negotiations with Colonel Malashenko, acting chief of staff of the Soviet Special Forces, with the aim of being recognized by the Soviets as the main seat of political and military power in Hungary, instead of Imre Nagy. The Dudás group also became known for the campaign of terror it unleashed against members of Hungary's AVH Secret Police, lynching or otherwise executing offenders on sight. The activities of the group went to such an extreme that other revolutionaries began arresting AVH officers for their own protection.\n\nHe continued publishing his newspaper criticizing the Nagy government until his own armed men dismissed him on 3 November, and he was arrested by government forces for acts attributed to him, or rumors of such acts (an attack on the Foreign Ministry; looting of the National Bank). On 4 November he was wounded and taken to a hospital.\n\nOn 21 November he was tricked into entering the Parliament building and was arrested by the Soviets. He was charged with leadership of a conspiracy and on 14 January 1957 he was sentenced to death. He was executed on 19 January 1957.\n"}
{"id": "1784697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1784697", "title": "Linda Riordan", "text": "Linda Riordan\n\nLinda June Riordan (née Haigh; 31 May 1953) is an English Labour Co-operative politician who was the Member of Parliament (MP) for Halifax from the 2005 general election until standing down in 2015.\n\nRiordan was born in Halifax and graduated from the University of Bradford. She served as a Calderdale councillor for eleven years, representing the Ovenden ward from 1995 to 2006, when she stood down to devote herself full-time to her role as an MP. She worked as private secretary for her predecessor as Halifax's Labour MP Alice Mahon between 2001 and 2005, and was active in the local Co-operative Party as secretary and treasurer. She was chosen as the Labour candidate from an all-women shortlist but her candidature was at first opposed by the Party's ruling National Executive Committee owing to concerns about selection process. She was later allowed to stand.\n\nRiordan was elected in 2005 and returned to Parliament with a reduced majority in 2010\n\nShe served on various select committees including the Justice Committee, the Procedure Committee, the Environmental Audit Select Committee, the European Scrutiny Committee and the all-Party Crossrail Committee. She was one of 16 signatories of an open letter to Ed Miliband in January 2015 calling on the party to commit to oppose further austerity, take rail franchises back into public ownership and strengthen collective bargaining arrangements In February 2015 she announced that she would be standing down at general election in May, citing ill health.\n\nIn December 2010 it was revealed that Riordan had secretly repaid £105.86 in wrongly claimed expenses. The repayment came about after Riordan had used House of Commons stationery for party political purposes. Riordan apologised, blaming volunteers for the incident.\n\nIn October 2012, the Commons Speaker John Bercow blocked the release of data showing which MPs were letting their homes to other MPs for financial gain. However, a study of parliamentary records was published in \"The Daily Telegraph\". This article listed problematic expense claims of Riordan and 26 other MPs, and said that she received rental income from a flat she owned in London which was rented out through an agency to fellow Labour MP Iain McKenzie and was, at the same time, able to claim expenses on another flat she rented in the city under an arrangement allowed by IPSA rules. Riordan, along with other MPs, said that under new rules she was banned from receiving mortgage interest expenses by IPSA and, as a result, had been forced to let the property.\n\nDays after the report, Riordan put the flat on the market, having previously tried to sell the flat in 2010. She pledged to ensure that any profit she gained from the sale would be paid back to the taxpayer.\n\nShe was married to Alan Riordan from 1979 until his death in April 2007, of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease at the age of 65.\n\n"}
{"id": "4096265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4096265", "title": "List of ufologists", "text": "List of ufologists\n\nThis is a list of notable people who are Ufologists (UFO researchers).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSeyed Hamed Mirostvarmoghadam, Iranian Ufologist and Researcher, Seyed Mohammad Hajimirghasemi, Iranian Ufologist and Researcher.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(Malcolm Robinson) (b. 1957) Scottish UFO & Paranormal researcher. Founder of Strange Phenomena Investigations. Author and lecturer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53794709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53794709", "title": "Louis Allamandola", "text": "Louis Allamandola\n\nLouis Allamandola is an American space scientist, currently at Astrophysics & Astrochemistry Laboratory of NASA and an Elected Fellow of American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n"}
{"id": "1976018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1976018", "title": "Marquis de Morès", "text": "Marquis de Morès\n\nAntoine-Amédée-Marie-Vincent Manca Amat de Vallombrosa, Marquis de Morès et de Montemaggiore (June 14, 1858 – June 9, 1896), commonly known as the Marquis de Morès, was a famous duelist, frontier ranchman in the Badlands of Dakota Territory during the final years of the American Old West era, a railroad pioneer in Vietnam, and an anti-Semitic politician in his native France.\n\nBorn Antoine-Amédée-Marie-Vincent Manca Amat de Vallombrosa, he inherited the title Marquis de Morès et de Montemaggiore, but he was usually called Marquis de Morès.\n\nDe Morès began life as a soldier, graduating in 1879 from St. Cyr, the leading military academy of France. Among his classmates was Philippe Pétain, famous French general of World War I and the ill-fated future leader of the Vichy France government in World War II.\n\nAfter St. Cyr, he entered Saumur, France's premier cavalry school, where he trained to be an officer. He was later sent to Algiers, helping to put down an uprising. It was while in Algiers that he had his first duel, starting his career as the most celebrated duelist of his day.\n\nHe resigned from the cavalry in 1882 and married Medora von Hoffman, sometimes called the Marquise. Soon thereafter, he would move to the North Dakota badlands to begin ranching, purchasing for that purpose. He also opened a stagecoach business. He named his simple vernacular house in Medora, North Dakota, the \"Chateau de Mores\"; it is preserved as a historic house there.\n\nHe tried to revolutionize the ranching industry by shipping refrigerated meat to Chicago by railroad, thus bypassing the Chicago stockyards. He built a meat-packing plant for this purpose in Medora, the town he founded in 1883 and named for his wife.\n\nHe became famous in the West as a rancher and gunslinger, getting arrested for murder a few times. He was always acquitted. Known as an adventurer, he was quick to anger and was engaged in numerous duels throughout his life; he notoriously sent Theodore Roosevelt what the latter interpreted as a challenge to a duel, though nothing came of it.\n\nOutlaws were very numerous in the Badlands, and cattle and horse rustling had become unbearably common. Frontiersman Granville Stuart organized a vigilance committee to fight the rustlers. De Morès told Roosevelt of the plan, and the two offered their services to be vigilantes. Stuart declined, stating that de Morès and Roosevelt were both well known and their presence could ruin the element of surprise. Stuart's vigilantes, called The Stranglers, struck viciously against the rustlers, greatly weakening their power in the Badlands.\n\nBy 1885 it became obvious that de Morès' business was failing. He was losing a business war against the beef trust, and the enterprise collapsed. He would later sell the ranch and other assets in the Badlands.\n\nSubsequently, he left Dakota Territory and returned to France. He was commissioned by the French army to build a proposed railroad in Vietnam, from the Chinese frontier to the Gulf of Tonkin, and arrived in Asia to lead railroad construction in the fall of 1888. He observed the Vietnamese people, and cautioned the French to be kind to them. He wrote, \"The colonization of Tonkin will not be accomplished with rifles, but with public works.\"\n\nHe believed a railroad was needed there, and hoped to have one extending all the way to Yunnan Province in China. This was partly a reaction to a British railroad being built from Burma to China.\n\nPolitical intrigue, being notorious in France in that day, impeded construction of the railroad. A prime minister was deposed, which led to a new undersecretary of the navy, Jean Constans, who opposed de Morès' plan from the start. The Marquis was recalled to France in 1889, and the railroad project was ruined.\n\nUpon his return, he would be embroiled in political controversies for the remainder of his life.\n\nHe started by attacking Constans, enlisting the aid of Georges Clemenceau, but failed to unseat him in the next election. His politics became overtly anti-Semitic, and he challenged Ferdinand-Camille Dreyfus, a Jewish member of the Chamber of Deputies, to a duel after Dreyfus wrote an article attacking him. De Morès said he wanted Gaul for the Gauls, and Dreyfus replied by writing that de Morès had a Spanish title, a father with an Italian title, and an American wife who was neither Christian nor French. At the duel Dreyfus fired first and missed, and the Marquis wounded his opponent in the arm.\n\nIn 1889 de Morès joined \"La Ligue antisémitique de France\" (Antisemitic League of France) founded by Edouard Drumont. After more verbal attacks on Jews, he went to Algeria to strengthen the French hold there and stop British advances into the interior of Africa. He used anti-Semitic rhetoric to his advantage in Algeria, giving speeches claiming that French and African Jews and the British were conspiring to conquer the entire Sahara Desert. With the British in a difficult position in the Sudan after the death of General Charles George Gordon in the siege of Khartoum, de Morès planned a trip there to meet with the Mahdi, a powerful Muslim leader who was intent on undermining British hegemony in the region. He traveled to North Africa, selected Arabic men in Tunis to escort him, and set out his caravan towards Kebili.\n\nThe French officer in charge of the post at Kebili, Lieutenant Leboeuf, received a telegram from the French Intelligence Officer and Military attaché in Tunis, advising him not to give de Morès' expedition any assistance. Furthermore, Leboeuf was told to ensure de Morès traveled by the way of the Berresof oasis. A marabout from Guemar dispatched a messenger to dissident tribesmen in Messine, southeast of Ghadames, telling them to come to Berresof at once to kill a Frenchman. The recipients of the message were told the man they were to kill would be carrying a great deal of money, would not have an official escort, and that whoever killed him would not be prosecuted. While he was in Kebili, de Morès received a telegram from General de la Roque, commander of the division at Constantine, Algeria, telling him that Tuareg guides would be waiting for him at Berresof. de Morès expressed surprise at this, as he had not asked de la Roque to find him any guides. de Morès departed Kebili on May 20, and the Tuareg \"guides\" joined his caravan on June 3. On the morning of June 9 the Tuareg sprung their attack. de Morès was able to kill several of his attackers before he was gunned down.\n\nOn 28 July 1902, after a trial in Sousse (Tunisia) two of the murderers were sentenced: El-Kheir ben Abd-el-Kader to the death penalty and Hamma Ben Cheikh to 20 years of forced labor. During the trial his widow, the Marquise, sought to expose the French government as responsible for the murder but the tribunal did not agree. She then even paid Isabelle Eberhardt to return to Africa to investigate his death, though Eberhardt made no real attempts to investigate the matter, and no government official was ever convicted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "920501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=920501", "title": "Maynard James Keenan", "text": "Maynard James Keenan\n\nJames Herbert Keenan (born April 17, 1964), known professionally as Maynard James Keenan or MJK, is an American singer, songwriter, musician, record producer, actor, author, and winemaker. He is best known as the vocalist for the rock bands Tool, A Perfect Circle, and Puscifer.\n\nIn addition to his music career, Keenan has ventured into fields such as acting, improvisational sketch comedy, and winemaking. He currently owns Merkin Vineyards and the associated winery Caduceus Cellars. Since rising to fame, he has been noted as being reclusive; however, he does emerge for the occasional interview and to support charitable causes.\n\nJames Herbert Keenan was born into a Southern Baptist family in Ravenna, Ohio, on April 17, 1964, the only child of Judith Marie (née Dougherty; November 22, 1943June 18, 2003) and Michael Loren Keenan (March 4, 1946). When his parents divorced in 1968, his father moved to Scottville, Michigan and Keenan would only see him about once a year for the next 12 years. His mother remarried, bringing Keenan into an \"intolerant and unworldly household\" where his intelligence and creative expression would be stifled.\n\nKeenan's mother suffered a paralyzing cerebral aneurysm in 1976, when Maynard was 11 (the inspiration for creative works such as Tool's songs \"jimmy\" and \"Wings for Marie\" as well as A Perfect Circle's \"Judith\"). A few years later, she persuaded Keenan to live with his father in Scottville. Keenan considers this \"the best move [he] ever made\". In 1982, he graduated from Mason County Central High School in Scottville, where he was a member of the wrestling team. His father was one of the coaches for the team and left coaching at the same time Keenan graduated in 1982.\n\nInspired by Bill Murray's performance in the 1981 comedy film \"Stripes\", Keenan joined the United States Army, with the intention of having the G.I. Bill fund his dream of attending art school. By this point, he had lived in Kansas, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, and Texas. He initially served in the Army as a forward observer before studying at West Point Prep School from 1983 to 1984.\n\nIn addition to completing a rigorous math and English curriculum, Keenan wrestled, ran on the cross country team, and sang in the glee club. It was during his time in the military that he adopted the sobriquet \"Maynard\" on a whim, based on a fictional character he had created in high school. He was distinguished in basic and advanced training, but declined an appointment to West Point and instead chose to pursue a music career because of his disillusionment with his colleagues' values and because he knew West Point would not tolerate his dissidence.\n\nUpon completing his term of enlistment, Keenan studied art at Kendall College of Art and Design in Grand Rapids, Michigan. From there he moved to Somerville, MA, where his love of animals led him to practice interior design for a Boston area pet store. He was transferred to a store in Los Angeles. before he was quickly fired and began working in set construction. During the 1980s, Keenan played bass guitar for TexA.N.S. and sang for Children of the Anachronistic Dynasty, both independent bands. During this time, he wrote an early version of \"Sober\", later Tool's first successful single. He also (with future Tool bandmate Danny Carey) performed live and recorded with Green Jellö between 1990 and 1993, performing backup vocals as the voice of the \"1st Pig\" on the band's hit song \"The Three Little Pigs\" on their debut album \"Cereal Killer\", and appearing in the music video for \"Slave Boy\" on the band's follow up LP \"333\". Around this time he also struck up a friendship with Tom Morello, who has credited Keenan with introducing him to Drop D tuning. Keenan spent time jamming with Morello and Brad Wilk, as did Zack de la Rocha: Morello and Wilk considered Keenan and de la Rocha as candidates for the vocalist with what would become Rage Against The Machine before deciding to ask the latter.\n\nAfter moving to Los Angeles, Keenan met Adam Jones who had in college heard him singing on a demo. Impressed with Keenan's vocals, Jones suggested that they form a band. Reluctant, Keenan eventually agreed and, in 1990, Tool was formed. Fronted by Keenan, the eventual lineup included guitarist Jones; his neighbor, drummer Danny Carey; and bassist Paul D'Amour, who would later be replaced by Justin Chancellor.\n\nTool signed to Zoo Entertainment in November 1991 and released the \"Opiate\" EP the following year. To support this release, the band toured with Fishbone and Rage Against the Machine.\n\nShortly thereafter, Tool released their 1993 debut album, \"Undertow\", in the United States. It was certified gold after just eight months, and platinum less than a year later. In 1994, the band released their single \"Prison Sex\" with a corresponding music video created and directed by Jones. The video was deemed \"too graphic and offensive\", and was withdrawn by MTV after a few airings due to \"a symbolic dealing with the sensitive subject of child abuse\".\n\nIn October 1996, the band released their second studio album, \"Ænima\". The album was certified gold in ten weeks, achieved double platinum in ten months, and won the Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance in 1998. After the release of the album, Tool began a prolonged legal battle with their label, Volcano Records (formerly Zoo Records), over contract violations. Following this legal battle, which resulted in a new three-record deal, the members of Tool decided to take some time off. During the hiatus, Keenan went under the alias \"Gaylord C.\" while collaborating with Tim Alexander of Primus and Mike Bordin of Faith No More on \"Choked\", a track on the 1997 drumming compilation \"Flyin' Traps\".\n\nThe band members were outspokenly critical of peer-to-peer file sharing networks, due to the negative financial impact on artists dependent on success in record sales. During an interview with \"NY Rock\" in 2000, Keenan stated, \"I think there are a lot of other industries out there that might deserve being destroyed. The ones who get hurt by MP3s are not so much companies or the business, but the artists, people who are trying to write songs.\"\n\nFive years after the release of \"Ænima\", Tool announced a new album, \"Systema Encéphale\", with a 12-song track list in January 2001. A month later, the band revealed that the new album was actually titled \"Lateralus\" and that the previous announcement had been a ruse. The album was released in May 2001 to positive reviews. Known for his \"dark, intelligent, compelling, and unexpected lyrical twists\", Keenan was acclaimed for his songwriting on the album, in which he \"doesn't cross the line from darkness to ugliness ... as often as he has in the past\". In an interview with \"NY Rock\", Keenan explained, \"Everything we release with Tool is inspired by our music. It doesn't matter if it is a video or if its lyrics. The lyrics for \"Schism\" are nothing more than my interpretation of the music.\" The album became a worldwide success, reaching No. 1 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart in its debut week, and Tool received their second Grammy Award for the best metal performance of 2001 for \"Schism\". In 2002, Keenan recorded a song called \"Fallen\" with Thirty Seconds to Mars that was released on the band's self-titled debut album.\n\nFifteen years after the band's formation, Tool had acquired what Dan Epstein of \"Revolver\" described as a devoted \"cult\" following, and in May 2006 the band released \"10,000 Days\", an album in which Keenan sang about more personal issues in contrast to previous attempts to inspire change. His mother, who inspired the song \"Jimmy\" on \"Ænima\", also served as the inspiration for \"Jambi\", and the two-part song \"Wings for Marie\" and \"10,000 Days (Wings for Marie, Pt 2)\", which deals with her 2003 death after 27 years, or around 10,000 days, of suffering. The album sold 564,000 copies in its opening week in the U.S. and was No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" 200 charts. However, \"10,000 Days\" was received less favorably by critics than its predecessor \"Lateralus\" had been.\n\nFollowing \"10,000 Days\", Tool has one album remaining to fulfill the obligation of its record contract. Though there is little information available on plans for this album, the band is steadily working towards its fifth studio release. Tool has worked around Keenan and his side projects since 1999, starting with the creation of A Perfect Circle, which has led to several years between projects. Regarding the future of Tool, Keenan stated in a 2007 interview with \"Spin\", \"We'll make music together until one of us is dead.\"\n\nOn March 24, 2009, a summer tour was announced on Tool's website, and in a March 26 press release Tool was confirmed as a headliner for the second annual Mile High Music Festival in Commerce City, Colorado, with Widespread Panic and The Fray. Tool also headlined Lollapalooza 2009 in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nOn December 12, 2012, Tool's webmaster posted on the band website:\n\nDuring Tool's post-\"Ænima\" hiatus to deal with their legal issues, Keenan began working with Billy Howerdel, Tool's guitar tech through the \"Ænima\" tour, on a different project. The supergroup they formed, A Perfect Circle, began performing in 1999 and released its first album \"Mer de Noms\" in 2000. They released a successful follow-up in 2003 titled \"Thirteenth Step\", a reference to twelve-step programs (many of the songs were written from the perspective of recovery). Both albums were eventually certified platinum. Their subsequent 2004 album, \"eMOTIVe\", was primarily composed of covers, except for the singles \"Counting Bodies Like Sheep to the Rhythm of the War Drums\"—a song inspired by \"Pet\" that was originally released on \"Thirteenth Step\"—and \"Passive\". Keenan later characterized the record as a political album with which he \"tested the waters\" and was subsequently \"crucified\" for it because of the content. It was certified gold the month after its release. That same year they released the DVD and CD set entitled \"aMOTION\", which was certified platinum within a month of its release.\n\nHowerdel reported in a May 2006 interview with MTV that the supergroup's work was concluded for the time being. After more than two years since the band's last release, Keenan was asked about the status of A Perfect Circle during an interview with \"Revolver\". He stated:\nWhen asked, in an interview for \"Spin\" that same month, about the possibility of another A Perfect Circle album, Keenan stated, \"Maybe, someday, a song on a soundtrack. But an album? No.\" A year later, on December 9, 2008, blabbermouth.net reported that Keenan had announced on The Pulse of Radio that he and Howerdel have been writing new music for A Perfect Circle. Keenan also said that the band has no plans to resume full-scale touring, or even to write and record a new album. Instead, they will focus on \"one or two songs at a time\", which will most likely be released via the Internet.\n\nHowever, in November 2010, the band returned from a nearly -year hiatus with a 14-show tour in the western US. Touring resumed in May 2011 with a North American tour across the US and Canada that wrapped up at the end of August. The band performed only once in 2012 with a December 29 show in Las Vegas, followed by a five-show Australian tour and a three-show South American tour in early 2013.\n\nIn 2003, Keenan surfaced under the name \"Puscifer\" for the song \"REV 22:20\" on the \"Underworld\" film soundtrack. Puscifer was once advertised as a side project with Danny Lohner, who had formerly performed live with Nine Inch Nails, but has since been formed as a manifestation of Keenan's \"creative subconscious\"—meaning that Keenan is now using the name as a pseudonym for his solo work. Keenan has stated that it is \"a premiere improvisational hardcore band\", and his \"catch-all, stream of consciousness, anything goes, etc.\" project. When comparing the project to Tool in an interview with \"Rolling Stone\", Keenan described it as his \"attempt to make music to inspire people. ... This is definitely not thinking man's music, but groove-oriented music that makes you feel good.\" In a later interview with Artistdirect, Keenan said that he did not want the lyrics to be puzzles. He wanted the complexity to be in the music, stating \"that's the part that gets under your skin and makes you feel good.\"\n\nIn 2006, Puscifer contributed the song \"The Undertaker (Renholder Mix)\" to the of \"\", where \"Renholder\", a moniker for Danny Lohner created by the members of A Perfect Circle, is the reversal of \"Re: D Lohner\". Keenan financed and released the first studio album, \"\"V\" Is for Vagina\", in October 2007. Created in a tour bus, in several hotel rooms, and in various studios around the country while Keenan toured with Tool, the album is a radical departure from Keenan's contributions in Tool and A Perfect Circle. Tim Alexander, best known as the drummer for rock band Primus, was a guest musician on the album. He called Puscifer \"trancy and hypnotic\" and a \"total 180 from Tool\". The album was criticized as unfocused and lacking in the passion and intelligence present in Keenan's previous work.\n\nPuscifer is also a clothing line, with merchandise available for purchase on the band's website. On September 16, 2008, Keenan updated the puscifer.com blog, revealing that the first ever Puscifer store would be opening \"hopefully\" by October 1 in Jerome, Arizona. Occupying a small space above a tattoo parlor, the store opened on October 3, 2008. In addition to the merchandise available on the band's online store, Keenan has also made available locally roasted coffee, art, and limited edition collectibles.\n\nOn February 13–15, 2009, Keenan debuted Puscifer at the Pearl Concert Theater in Palms Casino Resort in Paradise, Nevada, with a cabaret-style show so abstract it is not easily described. In an interview with the \"Los Angeles Times\", Keenan stated \"we didn't really have any clue what to call it, so we just kind of called it cabaret.\" Keenan—who has had previous experience with this type of entertainment, having fronted a similar show in Los Angeles before achieving fame with Tool—went on to add that \"you just can't really describe it, you just have to see it, then it makes sense.\" Featuring an ever-changing lineup of artists including Milla Jovovich and Primus drummer Tim Alexander, the show was originally said to have a long-term residency at the Pearl; however, Keenan later revealed that it was to be only a two-show performance.\nPuscifer continued to perform with a revolving lineup throughout 2009 at venues around the Southwest. However, in a November 2009 interview, Keenan stated: \"Efforts to confine our beloved enigma to the Southwestern United States have been thwarted. We are compelled beyond all reason to bring the noise Eastward and share our special sauce. Although authorities suggest you be prepared for any and all possibilities, we simply suggest you arrive happy and hungry.\"\n\nOn October 18, 2011, Keenan released Puscifer's second album, \"Conditions of My Parole\". The album received generally favorable reviews on Metacritic,\na positive review from Allmusic's Gregory Heaney, who described it as \"a fine piece of cold weather headphone music.\" Keenan followed with the February 19, 2013, release of \"Donkey Punch the Night\". This EP includes covers of \"Bohemian Rhapsody\" by Queen and \"Balls to the Wall\" by Accept. It received mostly mixed reviews, resulting in a Metacritic rating of 62%.\n\nA primary purpose of Keenan's lyrics for Tool involves a desire to connect with the listeners on a personal level, encouraging them to look within themselves for self-identity, understanding and reflection. Tool does not include lyrics with any releases as Keenan believes most people \"don't get it\" and it is not a priority of the band that people do.\nHowever, after each release Keenan has eventually published his typed lyrics online via the semi-official fansite, with the exception of \"Lateralus\", which was published on the official Tool website. Despite Maynard's aversion to promoting the lyrical content of Tool's work to its audience, lyrical arrangements are often given special attention, such as in the lyrics to \"Lateralus\", wherein the number of syllables per line correspond to an arrangement of the Fibonacci numbers, and \"Jambi\", in which the metrical foot iamb is used. Keenan's lyrics on \"Ænima\" and \"Lateralus\" focused on philosophy and spirituality—specific subjects range from evolution and Jungian psychology in \"Forty-Six & 2\" and transcendence in \"Lateralus\".\n\nIn live performances with Tool, Keenan has often been known to be situated on a platform towards the rear of the stage, without a spotlight, facing the backdrop rather than the audience. Breckinridge Haggerty, the band's live video director, says that the dark spaces on stage \"are mostly for Maynard\". He explains, \"a lot of the songs are a personal journey for him and he has a hard time with the glare of the lights when he's trying to reproduce these emotions for the audience. He needs a bit of personal space, and he feels more comfortable in the shadows.\" An exception, which surprised even devout Tool fans, occurred when a fan climbed on stage and attempted to hug Keenan during the band's performance of \"Pushit\". After dropping the fan to the ground with a gentle hip toss, Keenan, continuing to sing, wrapped himself around the man's back into a rear naked choke. He held the man without actually constricting his neck, allowing him to raise his fist in celebration. Keenan eventually turned the man to his stomach and sat on his back, where he stayed for \"an uncomfortably long period of time.\" His appearance with Tool has included the Mohawk hairstyle, wigs, Kabuki masks, bras, tights, and his entire body in blue paint. This is contrasted with a variety of long haired wigs while performing with or promoting A Perfect Circle.\n\nDescribing Keenan's contribution to Tool and A Perfect Circle, \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"both groups rely on Mr. Keenan's ability to dignify emotions like lust, anger and disgust, the honey in his voice adding a touch of profundity\". He ranked No. 21 in \"Hit Parader\"'s 2006 list of \"Heavy Metal's All-Time Top 100 Vocalists\", and his unique style of singing has often been considered influential to artists such as Pete Loeffler of Chevelle, Jared Leto of Thirty Seconds to Mars, and Jesse Hasek of 10 Years.\n\nKeenan is featured in several segments of \"Mr. Show\", most notably in the Ronnie Dobbs sketch presented in the first season. In one scene, he is seen being arrested with Dobbs. Later in the sketch he is featured wearing a wig as the lead singer of the then-fictitious band \"Puscifer\". When asked about the arrest of Dobbs, Keenan replies \"Guilty? Yeah. I'm sure he's guilty but... he \"knows\" it. I mean, you're guilty, and you don't know it. So... who's really in jail?\" He also appears in episode 2.6, \"The Velveteen Touch of a Dandy Fop\", as one of the viewers of \"Coupon: The Movie\", saying \"Now is not the time\", waving the cameras off and slapping the microphone out of his face in disgust after walking out of the theater. Later, Keenan would sing on a track for the \"Mr. Show\" incarnation \"Run Ronnie Run\", and appear in the \"music video sex scene\" on its DVD. Keenan appeared on the cover of the May/June 1999 issue of \"Pop Smear\" magazine, portraying Charles Manson as part of a photo essay, imitating a famous \"Life\" magazine portrait. He also appeared as Satan in the 2002 film \"Bikini Bandits\" and its 2004 sequel \"Bikini Bandits 2: Golden Rod\". When asked in an interview which role was more difficult, Keenan responded, \"Oh, Manson. He's a real person. People know what he looks like, how he talked. With Satan there's so much gray area.\"\n\nIn the mid-90s, responding to requests for Tool to perform in benefit shows, Keenan created \"Free Frances Bean\" tee-shirts to represent his own platform. Frances' mother, Courtney Love, had previously referred to Keenan as a \"media whore\" to which he responded, \"Isn't that great? I have the distinction of being called a media whore by Courtney Love.\" He said that after watching \"the tornado that is her mother\", he thought \"Oh my God, how is Frances Bean gonna survive this insanity?\" Although it was started as a simple joke, the T-shirts were soon in high demand and Keenan was giving them away.\n\nOn April 1, 2005, the official Tool website announced, as an April Fools' Day prank, that \"Maynard has found Jesus\" and would be abandoning the recording of the new album temporarily and possibly permanently. Kurt Loder of MTV contacted Keenan via email to ask for a confirmation and received a nonchalant confirmation. When Loder asked again, Keenan's response was simply \"heh heh\". On April 7, the official site revealed that it was a hoax. During an interview Keenan later stated, \"It was April Fools'. If you fall for that on April Fools' Day, there's nothing I can do for you.\" He has been part of other April Fools' pranks related to Tool, including one in which he was said to be in critical condition after a tour bus accident.\n\nKeenan made his major feature film debut in the April 17, 2009, release of \"\". Sharing a scene with Danny Lohner and the movie's lead, Jason Statham, Keenan portrays a dog walker \"who has an electrifying experience [...] in a public park\".\n\nIn May 2015, Keenan made a cameo in an episode of \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\" as fictional punk musician Barf Edwards.\n\nIn addition to a produce market in Cornville, Arizona; Keenan, whose grandparents and great-uncle made wine in Northern Italy, owns Merkin Vineyards and Caduceus Cellars, based in the unincorporated area of Page Springs/Cornville, Arizona, southwest of Sedona, where he resides. While the winery is named after an ancient symbol for commerce (caduceus), the vineyard is named after a pubic wig (merkin). He is also a partner of Stronghold Vineyards, \"an 80-acre site dedicated to producing affordable wines in the state\", located in the small, unincorporated area known as Kansas Settlement in Sulfur Springs Valley, Arizona. Keenan's mother died in 2003, at the age of 59, due to complications from an aneurysm. Following her death, he scattered her ashes across one of his vineyards, and later named one of his wines after her, honoring her memory with his Cabernet Sauvignon \"Nagual del Judith\".\n\nIn a statement released in April 2009, Keenan stated:\n\nDuring the fall season of 2008, Keenan began a small tour of sorts with his Stronghold Vineyards partner Eric Glomski, promoting his wine with signing sessions at Whole Foods Markets in California and Nevada. The tour continued in 2009 with sessions in Texas kicking off in March, and appearances scheduled during Tool's 2009 summer tour in Florida, Massachusetts, and New Jersey. In July 2009, Keenan opened an organic market which features a tasting room for his Arizona wines as well as a food court.\n\nKeenan is featured in \"Blood Into Wine: The Arizona Stronghold\", a documentary co-produced by \"Moog\" filmmakers Ryan Page and Christopher Pomerenk that chronicles Keenan and Glomski's embarkation into winemaking in the desert conditions of Arizona's Verde Valley, and the success they've seen in the decade since its inception. The film, which includes appearances from Tim & Eric, Patton Oswalt, and Milla Jovovich, was shown at the Noise Pop Festival on February 25, 2010, along with another documentary produced by Pomerenk, \"The Heart is a Drum Machine\". It investigates why people create and listen to music, and features Keenan, Jason Schwartzman, Kurt Loder, Nic Harcourt, Juliette Lewis, and Elijah Wood.\n\nIn a January 2013 interview with Phoenix New Times, Keenan announced he is working on an autobiography.\n\nKeenan's authorized biography, \"A Perfect Union of Contrary Things\", was released on November 8, 2016.\n\nKeenan has used his voice on numerous occasions to support charitable causes. He performed at a 1997 benefit concert for RAINN (the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network) organized by Tori Amos (who had often referred to Keenan as an unofficial brother). He is one of the notable performers for Axis of Justice, a non-profit organization that brings musicians, fans of music, and grassroots political organizations together to fight for social justice. In 2004, Axis of Justice released \"Concert Series Volume 1\". Included are two tracks featuring Keenan on vocals. The second track on the album, \"(What's So Funny 'Bout) Peace, Love, and Understanding\", was recorded live during Lollapalooza in Seattle, Washington on August 23, 2003. The first track, \"Where the Streets Have No Name\", was recorded live during the Axis of Justice Concert Series at The Avalon in Hollywood on July 19, 2004. In February 2005, Keenan appeared as a surprise vocalist at a Seattle benefit concert for victims of the 2004 earthquake and tsunami in southern Asia, performing with the partly reformed Alice in Chains, in place of the deceased vocalist Layne Staley, on the songs \"Them Bones\", \"Man in the Box\", and \"Rooster\".\n\nKeenan has a son named Devo H. Keenan who sang backing vocals on A Perfect Circle's \"Thirteenth Step\", and was later credited as the cellist on Ashes Divide's \"Keep Telling Myself It's Alright\". He also gave a solo cello performance for Keenan's 50th birthday celebration concert, \"Cinquanta\".\n\nTwo songs bear the name of Keenan's mother, Judith: \"Wings for Marie (Pt. 1)\" by Tool and \"Judith\" by A Perfect Circle.\n\nKeenan has a reputation for being reclusive and controlling of his public image. He dislikes the manner in which celebrities are worshipped, and at one point carried business cards with the name \"Jesus H. Christ\" printed on them. When having to deal with stalkers, Keenan has apparently resorted to using a paintball gun to run off trespassers from his property. Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu is one of Keenan's pursuits, and he studied under Rickson Gracie.\n\nIt was announced in June 2010 that Keenan had proposed to girlfriend and Caduceus lab manager Lei Li. On September 10, 2012, Keenan wrote an article for the \"Phoenix New Times\" in which he made reference to his wife. On July 25, 2014, Keenan's wife gave birth to their daughter, Lei Li Agostina Maria.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34230327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34230327", "title": "Mirko Tremaglia", "text": "Mirko Tremaglia\n\nMirko Tremaglia (17 November 1926 – 30 December 2011) was an Italian politician. He is remembered for the Law 459 of 2001 \"for the exercise of the right to vote of Italian citizens resident abroad\", known as Tremaglia Law.\n\nAs a young man he fought for Italy in World War II. He was also a co-founder of the Italian Social Movement and of the National Alliance. Between 2001 and 2006 he served as Minister without portfolio of Italians in the World in the second and third Berlusconi Cabinet.\n\nIn 2008 he joined The People of Freedom, but in 2010 he followed Gianfranco Fini into his new party Future and Freedom.\nTremaglia died at his home in Bergamo, after a long illness (Parkinson's disease).\n\n"}
{"id": "1184487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1184487", "title": "Nāga", "text": "Nāga\n\nNaga (IAST: \"nāga\"; Devanāgarī: नाग) or Nagi (f. of nāga; IAST: \"nāgī\"; Devanāgarī: नागी) is a Sanskrit word which basically refers to a \"serpent\" or \"snake\", especially the King cobra. The term \"Naga\" in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism denotes divine, semi-divine deities, or a semi-divine race of half-human half-serpent beings that resides in the heavenly \"Patala\" (netherworld) and can occasionally take human form. They are principally depicted in three forms: wholly humans with snakes on the heads and necks; common serpents or as half-human half-snake beings. A female naga is a \"nagi\", \"nagin\", or \"nagini\". \"Nagaraja\" is seen as the king of nāgas and nāginis. They are common and hold cultural significance in the mythological traditions of many South Asian and Southeast Asian cultures.\n\nIn Sanskrit, a () is a cobra, the Indian cobra (\"Naja naja\"). A synonym for ' is ' (). There are several words for \"snake\" in general, and one of the very commonly used ones is ' (). Sometimes the word ' is also used generically to mean \"snake\". The word is cognate with English 'snake', Germanic: \"*snēk-a-\", Proto-IE: *(s)nēg-o- (with s-mobile).\n\nThe mythological serpent race that took form as cobras often can be found in Hindu iconography. The nāgas are described as the powerful, splendid, wonderful and proud semidivine race that can assume their physical form either as human, partial human-serpent or the whole serpent. Their domain is in the enchanted underworld, the underground realm filled with gems, gold and other earthly treasures called Naga-loka or Patala-loka. They are also often associated with bodies of waters — including rivers, lakes, seas, and wells — and are guardians of treasure. Their power and venom made them potentially dangerous to humans. However, they often took beneficial protagonist role in Hindu mythology, such as in Samudra manthan mythology, Vasuki, a nāgarāja who abides on Shiva's neck, became the churning rope for churning of the Ocean of Milk. Their eternal mortal enemies are the Garudas, the legendary semidivine birdlike-deity.\nVishnu is originally portrayed in the form sheltered by Śeṣanāga or reclining on Śeṣa, but the iconography has been extended to other deities as well. The serpent is a common feature in Ganesha iconography and appears in many forms: around the neck, use as a sacred thread (Sanskrit: \"\") wrapped around the stomach as a belt, held in a hand, coiled at the ankles, or as a throne. Shiva is often shown garlanded with a snake. Maehle (2006: p. 297) states that \"Patanjali is thought to be a manifestation of the serpent of eternity\".\n\nAs in Hinduism, the Buddhist nāga generally has the form of a great cobra, usually with a single head but sometimes with many. At least some of the nāgas are capable of using magic powers to transform themselves into a human semblance. The nāga is sometimes portrayed as a human being with a snake or dragon extending over his head. One nāga, in human form, attempted to become a monk; and when telling it that such ordination was impossible, the Buddha told it how to ensure that it would be reborn a human, and so able to become a monk.\n\nIn the \"Devadatta\" chapter of the \"Lotus Sutra\", the daughter of the dragon king, an eight year old longnü (), after listening to Mañjuśrī preach the Lotus Sutra, transforms into a male Bodhisattva and immediately reaches full enlightenment. This tale appears to reinforce the viewpoint prevalent in Mahayana scriptures that a male body is required for Buddhahood, even if a being is so advanced in realization that they can magically transform their body at will and demonstrate the emptiness of the physical form itself.\n\nNagas are believed to both live on Mount Meru, among the other minor deities, and in various parts of the human-inhabited earth. Some of them are water-dwellers, living in streams or the ocean; others are earth-dwellers, living in underground caverns.\n\nThe nāgas are the followers of (Pāli: Virūpakkha), one of the Four Heavenly Kings who guards the western direction. They act as a guard upon Mount Sumeru, protecting the dēvas of Trāyastriṃśa from attack by the asūras.\n\nAmong the notable nāgas of Buddhist tradition is Mucalinda, Nāgarāja and protector of the Buddha. In the Vinaya Sutra (I, 3), shortly after his enlightenment, the Buddha is meditating in a forest when a great storm arises, but graciously, King Mucalinda gives shelter to the Buddha from the storm by covering the Buddha's head with his seven snake heads. Then the king takes the form of a young Brahmin and renders the Buddha homage.\n\nIt is noteworthy that the two chief disciples of the Buddha, Sariputta and Moggallāna are both referred to as \"Mahānāga\" or \"Great Nāga\". Some of the most important figures in Buddhist history symbolize nagas in their names such as Dignāga, Nāgāsēna, and, although other etymons are assigned to his name, Nāgārjuna.\n\nIn the Vajrayāna and Mahāsiddha traditions, nagas in their half-human form are depicted holding a naga-jewel, kumbhas of amrita, or a terma that had been elementally encoded by adepts.\n\nAccording to tradition, Prajñapāramita sutras had been given by the Buddha to a great Naga who guarded them in the sea, and were conferred upon Nāgārjuna later.\n\nIn Thailand and Java, the nāga is a wealthy underworld deity. For Malay sailors, nāgas are a type of dragon with many heads. In Laos they are beaked water serpents.\n\nThe seven-headed nagas often depicted as guardian statues, carved as balustrades on causeways leading to main Cambodian temples, such as those found in Angkor Wat. Apparently they represent the seven races within naga society, which has a mythological, or symbolic, association with \"the seven colors of the rainbow\". Furthermore, Cambodian naga possess numerological symbolism in the number of their heads. Odd-headed naga symbolise the Male Energy, Infinity, Timelessness, and Immortality. This is because, numerologically, all odd numbers come from One (1). Even-headed naga are said to be \"Female, representing Physicality, Mortality, Temporality, and the Earth.\"\n\nIn Javanese and Balinese culture, Indonesia, a naga is depicted as a crowned, giant, magical serpent, sometimes winged. It is similarly derived from the Shiva-Hinduism tradition, merged with Javanese animism. Naga in Indonesia mainly derived and influenced by Indic tradition, combined with the native animism tradition of sacred serpents. In Sanskrit the term \"naga\" literally means snake, but in Java it normally refer to serpent deity, associated with water and fertility. In Borobudur, the nagas are depicted in their human form, but elsewhere they are depicted in animal shape.\n\nEarly depictions of circa-9th-century Central Java closely resembled Indic Naga which was based on cobra imagery. During this period, naga serpents were depicted as giant cobras supporting the waterspout of yoni-lingam. The examples of naga sculpture can be found in several Javanese candis, including Prambanan, Sambisari, Ijo, and Jawi. In East Java, the Penataran temple complex contain a \"Candi Naga\", an unusual naga temple with its Hindu-Javanese caryatids holding corpulent nagas aloft.\n\nThe later depiction since the 15th century, however, was slightly influenced by Chinese dragon imagery—although unlike its Chinese counterparts, Javanese and Balinese nagas do not have legs. Naga as the lesser deity of earth and water is prevalent in the Hindu period of Indonesia, before the introduction of Islam.\n\nIn Balinese tradition, nagas are often depicted battling Garuda. Intricately carved naga are found as stairs railings in bridges or stairs, such as those found in Balinese temples, Ubud monkey forest, and Taman Sari in Yogyakarta.\n\nIn a wayang theater story, a snake (naga) god named Sanghyang Anantaboga or Antaboga is a guardian deity in the bowels of the earth. Naga symbolize the nether realm of earth or underworld.\n\nNaga are believed to live in the Laotian stretch of the Mekong or its estuaries. Lao mythology maintains that the naga are the protectors of Vientiane, and by extension, the Lao state. The naga association was most clearly articulated during and immediately after the reign of Anouvong. An important poem from this period \"San Leupphasun\" () discusses relations between Laos and Thailand in a veiled manner, using the naga and the garuda to represent the Lao and the Thai, respectively. The naga is incorporated extensively into Lao iconography, and features prominently in Lao culture throughout the length of the country, not only in Vientiane.\n\nIn Malay and Orang Asli traditions, the lake Chini, located in Pahang is home to a naga called Sri Gumum. Depending on legend versions, her predecessor Sri Pahang or her son left the lake and later fought a naga called Sri Kemboja. Kemboja is the Malay name for Cambodia. Like the naga legends there, there are stories about an ancient empire in lake Chini, although the stories are not linked to the naga legends.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "730694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730694", "title": "Papal legate", "text": "Papal legate\n\nA papal legate or Apostolic legate (from the Ancient Roman title \"legatus\") is a personal representative of the pope to foreign nations, or to some part of the Catholic Church. He is empowered on matters of Catholic Faith and for the settlement of ecclesiastical matters.\n\nThe legate is appointed directly by the pope (the bishop of Rome, head of the Catholic Church and (historically) head of state of the papal states). Hence a legate is usually sent to a government, a sovereign or to a large body of believers (such as a national church) or to take charge of a major religious effort, such as an (ecumenical) council, a crusade to the Holy Land, or even against a heresy such as the Cathars.\n\nThe term \"legation\" is applied both to a legate's mandate and to the territory concerned (such as a state, or an ecclesiastical province). The relevant adjective is \"legatine\".\n\nIn the High Middle Ages, papal legates were often used to strengthen the links between Rome and the many parts of Christendom. More often than not, legates were learned men and skilled diplomats who were not from the country they were accredited to. The Italian-born Guala Bicchieri served as papal legate to England in the early 13th century and played a major role in both the English government and church at the time. By the Late Middle Ages it had become more common to appoint native clerics to the position of legate within their own country, such as Cardinal Wolsey acting as legate to the court of Henry VIII of England. The reason for this switch in policy could be attributed to a change in attitude on the eve of The Reformation; by this point, foreign men representing the papacy would be more likely to reinforce dissent than bring Christendom closer together.\n\nPapal legates often summoned legatine councils, which dealt with church government and other ecclesiastical issues. According to Pope Gregory VII, writing in the \"Dictatus papae\", a papal legate \"presides over all bishops in a council, even if he is inferior in rank, and he can pronounce sentence of deposition against them\". During the Middle Ages, a legatine council was the usual means that a papal legate imposed his directives.\n\nThere are several ranks of papal legates in diplomacy, some of which are no longer used.\n\nThe most common form of papal legate today is the apostolic nuncio, whose task it is to strengthen relations between the Holy See and the Roman Catholic Church in a particular country and at the same time to act as the diplomatic representative of the Holy See to the government of that country. An apostolic nuncio is generally equivalent in rank to that of ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary, although in Catholic countries the nuncio often ranks above ambassadors in diplomatic protocol. A nuncio performs the same functions as an ambassador and has the same diplomatic privileges. Under the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, to which the Holy See is a party, a nuncio is an ambassador like those from any other country. The Vienna Convention allows the host state to grant seniority of precedence to the nuncio over others of ambassadorial rank accredited to the same country, and may grant the deanship of that country's diplomatic corps to the nuncio regardless of seniority.\n\nPro-nuncio was a term used from 1965 to 1991 for a papal diplomatic representative of full ambassadorial rank accredited to a country that did not accord him precedence over other ambassadors and \"ex officio\" deanship of the diplomatic corps. In those countries, the papal representative's precedence within the corps is exactly on a par with that of the other members of ambassadorial rank, so that he becomes dean only on becoming the senior member of the corps.\n\nFor countries with which the Holy See has no diplomatic relations, an apostolic delegate is sent to serve as a liaison with the Catholic Church in that country, though not accredited to its government.\n\nThis highest rank (literally \"from the (Pope's) side\", i.e. \"intimately\" trusted) is normally awarded to a priest of cardinal rank. It is an exceptional investiture and can either be focused or broad in scope. The legate \"a latere\" is the alter ego of the Pope, and as such, possesses full plenipotentiary powers.\n\nLiterally \"born legate\", i.e. not nominated individually but \"ex officio\", namely a bishop holding this rank as a privilege of his see, e.g. archbishops of Canterbury (pre-Reformation), Prague, Esztergom, Udine, Salzburg, Gniezno and Cologne. The \"legatus natus\" would act as the pope's representative in his province, with a \"legatus a latere\" only being sent in extraordinary circumstances. Although limited in their jurisdiction compared to \"legati a latere\", a \"legatus natus\" were not subordinate to them.\n\nLiterally \"sent legate\", possessing limited powers for the purpose of completing a specific mission. This commission is normally focused in scope and of short duration.\n\nSome administrative (temporal) provinces of the Papal states in (mostly central) Italy were governed by a Papal Legate. This has been the case in Benevento, in Pontecorvo (of Campagna e Marittima/ of Frosinone) and in Viterbo.\nIn four cases, including Bologna, this post was awarded exclusively to Cardinals; the Velletri post was created for Bartolommeo Pacca.\n\nThe title could be changed to Apostolic Delegate, as happened in Frosinone (for Pontecorvo) in 1827.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "431388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431388", "title": "Paul Harvey", "text": "Paul Harvey\n\nPaul Harvey Aurandt (September 4, 1918 – February 28, 2009), better known as Paul Harvey, was an American radio broadcaster for the ABC Radio Networks. He broadcast \"News and Comment\" on weekday mornings and mid-days and at noon on Saturdays, as well as his famous \"The Rest of the Story\" segments. From 1952 through 2008, his programs reached as many as 24 million people a week. \"Paul Harvey News\" was carried on 1,200 radio stations, 400 American Forces Network stations, and 300 newspapers.\n\nHarvey was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the son of a policeman who was killed by robbers in 1921. He made radio receivers as a young boy, and he attended Tulsa Central High School where teacher Isabelle Ronan was \"impressed by his voice\". On her recommendation, he started working at KVOO in Tulsa in 1933 helping to clean up when he was 14. He eventually was allowed to fill in on the air, reading commercials and the news.\n\nHe continued working at KVOO while attending the University of Tulsa, first as an announcer and later as a program director. He spent three years as a station manager for KFBI AM, now known as KFDI, a radio station that once had studios in Salina, Kansas. From there, he moved to a newscasting job at KOMA in Oklahoma City, and then to KXOK in St. Louis in 1938 where he was Director of Special Events and a roving reporter.\n\nHarvey then moved to Hawaii to cover the United States Navy as it concentrated its fleet in the Pacific. He was returning to the mainland from assignment when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. He eventually enlisted in the United States Army Air Forces but served only from December 1943 to March 1944. His critics claimed that he was given a psychiatric discharge for deliberately injuring himself in the heel. Harvey angrily denied the accusation, but was vague about details: \"I cannot tell you the exact wording on my discharge.\"\n\nHarvey then moved to Chicago, where in June 1944, he began broadcasting from the ABC affiliate WENR. In 1945, he began hosting the postwar employment program \"Jobs for G.I. Joe\" on WENR. Harvey added \"The Rest of the Story\" as a tagline to in-depth feature stories in 1946.\n\nOne of Harvey's regular topics was lax security, in particular at Argonne National Laboratory, a nuclear research facility located west of Chicago. To demonstrate his concern, just after midnight on February 6, 1951, Harvey engaged in an \"act of participatory journalism\", as \"The Washington Post\" described it in 2010, after obtaining 1400 pages of the FBI file on Harvey:\n\nHarvey's \"escapade\" prompted the U.S. attorney for Illinois to empanel a grand jury to consider an espionage indictment; Harvey \"went on the air to suggest he was being set up\"; the grand jury subsequently declined to indict Harvey.\n\nOn April 1, 1951, before the grand jury's decision, the ABC Radio Network debuted \"Paul Harvey News and Comment\" \"Commentary and analysis of Paul Harvey each weekday at 12 Noon\". Harvey was also heard originally on Sundays; the first Sunday program was Harvey's introduction. Later, the Sunday program would move to Saturdays. The program continued until his death.\n\nFrom the late 1960s through the early 1980s, Harvey recorded five-minute video editorials that local television stations could insert into their local news programs or show separately. Some of those editorials were recorded, such as his \"Warning To The Nation,\" broadcast on ABC Radio on April 3, 1965 and \"Freedom to Chains,\" from the same year.\n\nIn the latter half of his career, Harvey was also known for the radio series \"The Rest of the Story\", described as a blend of mystery and history, which premiered on May 10, 1976. The series quickly grew to six broadcasts a week, and continued until Harvey's death in 2009. \"The Rest of the Story\" series was written and produced by the broadcaster's son, Paul Harvey, Jr., from its outset and for its thirty-three year duration. Harvey and his radio network stated that the stories in that series, although entertaining, were completely true. This was contested by some critics, including urban legend expert Jan Harold Brunvand.\n\nIn November 2000, Harvey signed a 10-year, $100 million contract with ABC Radio Networks. A few months later, after damaging his vocal cords, he went off the air, but returned in August 2001.\n\nHis success with sponsors stemmed from the seamlessness with which he segued from his monologue into reading commercial messages. He explained his relationship with them, saying \"I am fiercely loyal to those willing to put their money where my mouth is.\"\n\nFormer Senator Fred Thompson substituted for Harvey regularly from 2006 to 2007. Other substitutes for Harvey included his son, Paul Harvey, Jr., Doug Limerick, Paul W. Smith, Gil Gross, Ron Chapman, Mitt Romney, Mike Huckabee, Mort Crim, Art Van Horn, Scott Shannon, and Tony Snow. Three weeks after Harvey's death, the entire \"News and Comment\" franchise was canceled.\n\nHarvey did not host the show full-time after April 2008, when he came down with pneumonia. Shortly after his recovery, his wife died on May 3, causing him to prolong his time away from broadcasting. He voiced commercials, new episodes of \"The Rest of the Story\" and \"News & Comment\" during middays a few times a week, with his son handling mornings.\n\nHarvey's on-air persona was influenced by that of sportscaster Bill Stern. During the 1940s, Stern's \"The Colgate Sports Reel\" and newsreel programs used many of the techniques later used by Harvey, including his emphatic style of delivery, and the use of phrases such as \"Reel Two\" and \"Reel Three\" to denote segments of the broadcast—much like Harvey's \"Page Two\" and \"Page Three\".\n\nHarvey was also known for catch phrases he used at the beginning of his programs, such as \"Hello Americans, this is Paul Harvey. Stand by for NEWS!\" He always ended, \"Paul Harvey ... Good \"day\".\" or \"Paul Harvey ... Good \"night\".\" A story might be \"This day's news of most lasting significance.\" At the end of a report about someone who had done something ridiculous or offensive, Harvey would say, \"He would want us to mention his name,\" followed by silence, then would start the next item. The last item of a broadcast, which was often a funny story, would usually be preceded by \"And now from the 'what-it's-worth' department . . .\"\n\nOther phrases made famous by Harvey included \"Here's a strange...\" (a story with an unusual twist) and \"Self-government won't work without self-discipline.\"\n\nIn addition to the inquiry into whether Harvey's \"Rest of the Story\" tales are true, Harvey's trademark ability to seamlessly migrate from content to commercial brought scrutiny. In that context, \"Salon\" magazine called him the \"finest huckster ever to roam the airwaves.\" Some have argued that Harvey's fawning and lavish product endorsements may be misleading or confusing to his audience. Harvey's endorsed products included EdenPure heaters, Bose radios, Select Comfort mattresses, and Hi-Health dietary supplements, including a supplement that was claimed to improve vision but was later the subject of a Federal Trade Commission enforcement action against the manufacturer (but not Harvey himself) for misleading claims made on Harvey's show. In one of the tribute broadcasts, Gil Gross said Harvey considered advertising just another type of news, and he only endorsed products he believed in, often interviewing someone from the company.\n\nHarvey was an avid pilot. He served in the US Army Air Corps from 1943-1944. Harvey had been an Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA) member for more than 50 years, and would occasionally talk about flying to his radio audience. He was a member of the Experimental Aircraft Association (EAA), and was frequently seen at EAA AirVenture in Oshkosh, Wisconsin. He was responsible for funding the Paul Harvey Audio-Video Center at EAA headquarters in Oshkosh. Harvey was also an early investor in the Duluth, Minnesota-based aircraft manufacturing company, Cirrus Aircraft. According to \"AOPA Pilot\" contributing editor Barry Schiff, Harvey coined the term \"skyjack\", and is credited with popularizing the terms \"Reaganomics\" and \"guesstimate\".\n\nBeginning in 1952, Harvey was a friend of FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. Harvey would often submit \"advance copies of his radio script for comment and approval.\" It is believed that Harvey's friendship with Hoover helped Harvey escape criminal charges relating to his trespassing at Argonne National Laboratory. Nevertheless, Paul Harvey was happy to defend his friend, and spoke of him on his show of April 25, 1963, saying: \"God help the United States without John Edgar Hoover. ... (FBI) Director Hoover is not retiring. If you have heard otherwise, somebody's sinister wish was the father of that thought. It is not so.\"\n\nHarvey was also a close friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy and supporter of his search for Communists.\n\nHarvey was also a close friend of George Vandeman and the Reverend Billy Graham. From the mid-1970s until the mid-1980s, Harvey attended Calvary Memorial Church in Oak Park. When the church moved from its original location on Madison Street to the former Presbyterian Church on Lake Street, Harvey asked his friend Graham to preach at the dedication service. Harvey associated with various congregations of different denominations. He and his wife regularly attended the Camelback Adventist Church in Scottsdale, Arizona during his winters there. He often quoted Adventist pioneer Ellen G. White in his broadcasts and received the \"Golden Microphone\" Award for his professionalism and graciousness in dealing with the church. He was also active with a small Plymouth Brethren meeting in Maywood, Illinois called Woodside Bible Chapel.\n\nRobert D. McFadden, writing Harvey's obituary for the \"New York Times,\" examined his unique radio style and how it interacted with his political views:\n\n[He] personalized the radio news with his right-wing opinions, but laced them with his own trademarks: a hypnotic timbre, extended pauses for effect, heart-warming tales of average Americans and folksy observations that evoked the heartland, family values and the old-fashioned plain talk one heard around the dinner table on Sunday.\n\n'Hello, Americans,' he barked. 'This is Paul Harvey! Stand byyy for Newwws!'\n\nHe railed against welfare cheats and defended the death penalty. He worried about the national debt, big government, bureaucrats who lacked common sense, permissive parents, leftist radicals and America succumbing to moral decay. He championed rugged individualism, love of God and country, and the fundamental decency of ordinary people.\n\nHarvey was elected to the National Association of Broadcasters National Radio Hall of Fame and Oklahoma Hall of Fame, and appeared on the Gallup poll list of America's most admired men. In addition he received 11 Freedom Foundation Awards as well as the Horatio Alger Award. Harvey was named to the DeMolay Hall of Fame, a Masonic youth organization, on June 25, 1993.\n\nIn 2005, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the United States' most prestigious civilian award, by President George W. Bush. Bush's remarks summarized Harvey's career: \"He first went on the air in 1933, and he's been heard nationwide for 54 years. Americans like the sound of his voice...over the decades we have come to recognize in that voice some of the finest qualities of our country: patriotism, the good humor, the kindness, and common sense of Americans.\"\n\nOn May 18, 2007, he received an honorary degree from Washington University in St. Louis.\n\nIn 1992 he received the Paul White Award of the Radio Television Digital News Association\n\nPaul Harvey was inducted as a Laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the Order of Lincoln (the State's highest honor) by the Governor of Illinois in 1987 in the area of Communication.\n\nHarvey was born and raised in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the son of Harry Harrison Aurandt (1873–1921) and Anna Dagmar (née Christensen) Aurandt (1883–1960). His father was born in Martinsburg, Pennsylvania; his mother was a native of Denmark. He had one sibling, an older sister Frances Harrietta (née Aurandt) Price (1908–1988).\n\nIn 1921, when Harvey was three years old, his father was murdered. His father and a friend (a Tulsa police detective) were rabbit hunting while off-duty around 9pm when approached by four armed men who attempted to rob them. Mr. Aurandt was shot and died two days later of his wounds. The four robbers were identified by the surviving detective, and arrested the day after Aurandt died. A lynch mob of 1,500 people formed at the jail, but all four were smuggled out, tried, convicted, and received life terms.\n\nIn 1940, Harvey married Lynne Cooper of St. Louis. She was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa at Washington University in St. Louis and a former schoolteacher. They met when Harvey was working at KXOK and Cooper came to the station for a school news program. Harvey invited her to dinner, proposed to her after a few minutes of conversation and from then on called her \"Angel,\" even on his radio show. A year later she said yes. The couple moved to Chicago in 1944.\n\nOn May 17, 2007, Harvey told his radio audience that Angel had developed leukemia. Her death, at the age of 92, was announced by ABC radio on May 3, 2008. When she died at their River Forest home, the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" described her as, \"More than his astute business partner and producer, she also was a pioneer for women in radio and an influential figure in her own right for decades.\" According to the founder of the Museum of Broadcast Communications, Bruce DuMont, \"She was to Paul Harvey what Colonel Parker was to Elvis Presley. She really put him on track to have the phenomenal career that his career has been.\"\n\nLynne Harvey was the first producer ever inducted into the Radio Hall of Fame, and had developed some of her husband's best-known features, such as \"The Rest of the Story.\" While working on her husband's radio show, she established 10 p.m. as the hour in which news is broadcast. She was the first woman to receive a lifetime achievement award from the Chicago chapter of American Women in Radio and Television. She worked in television also, and created a television show called \"Dilemma\" which is acknowledged as the prototype of the modern talk show genre. While working at CBS, she was among the first women to produce an entire newscast. In later years, she was best known as a philanthropist.\n\nThey had one son, Paul Aurandt, Jr., who goes by the name Paul Harvey, Jr. He assisted his father at \"News and Comment\" and \"The Rest of the Story.\" Paul, Jr., whose voice announced the bumpers into and out of each \"News and Comment\" episode, filled in for his father during broadcasts and broadcast the morning editions after the passing of his mother.\n\nHarvey died on February 28, 2009, at the age of 90 at a hospital in Phoenix, Arizona, surrounded by family and friends. No cause of death was announced. In response to his father's death, his son, Paul Harvey Jr., said, \"millions have lost a friend\". At the time of his death, he had less than two years left on his ten-year contract. Former President George W. Bush issued a statement on Harvey's death, calling Harvey: \"a friendly and familiar voice in the lives of millions of Americans.\"\n\nOn March 4, Gil Gross was chosen to become the next host of \"News & Comment\". New owners Citadel Broadcasting, which had bought ABC News Radio from Disney in 2008, chose Mike Huckabee, instead, but the show lasted only one week before being taken off the air. Gross was actually happy not to have to do the show as that would have had him going into KGO San Francisco at around 1:00 a.m. to prep for the show that morning for the East Coast broadcasts (and his talk show was not until the late afternoon).\n\nHarvey's full-length biography, \"Good Day! The Paul Harvey Story,\" was published in May 2009 by Regnery Publishing.\n\nOn February 3, 2013, a recording of Harvey's \"So God Made a Farmer\" commentary was used by Ram Trucks in a commercial titled \"Farmer,\" which aired during Super Bowl XLVII.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54162850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54162850", "title": "Prisoner X2", "text": "Prisoner X2\n\n\"Prisoner X2\" (in Hebrew: \"האסיר איקס 2\" or \"X2 האסיר\") is a placeholder name of a Mossad agent (described as an \"important operative\") who, as of 2014, reportedly has been secretly imprisoned in Israel for about a decade, after he was convicted of treason (spying for a foreign power).\n\nFirst details about a \"second Prisoner X\" being secretly held in Ayalon Prison emerged in 2013, following the exposure of the death of Ben Zygier. Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman, who chaired the Knesset Committee on Defense and Foreign Affairs, told Knesset members the case was \"extremely serious\" but that the prisoner's rights were being upheld. Prominent Israeli lawyer Avigdor Feldman described this case as \"a terrible security breach\", and \"much more grave, sensational, amazing and riveting from Zygier's case.\" The case was kept under wraps in Israel, and reports about it were deleted from Israeli news sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "34062425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34062425", "title": "Rodrigo Callapina", "text": "Rodrigo Callapina\n\nRodrigo Sutiq Callapiña was a native Inca who successfully claimed his nobility in colonial Spanish America in 1569.\n\nIn the late 16th century, the Spanish developed a political system that depended heavily on the social status and prestige of the individual. Natives who were not nobility were expected to pay taxes, perform public labor, and personal service for the Spanish. Because of this pressure Incan natives began to manipulate both the legal system and their traditional mythology to prove their noble lineage. In 1569, Rodrigo Sutiq Callapiña successfully claimed his nobility by linking his bloodline to Manqo Qhapaq and Qoya Qori Kuka. Manqo Qhapaq was the mythic ancient Inka ancestor, known as the first Inka, and Qoya Qori Kuka was a great female warrior who defended Cuzco and was later imbued into a stone as a spiritual protector.\n\nThe main document used to assess Rodrigo Sutiq Callapiña is called the Callapiña Document, which he gave to the Spanish to prove his noble lineage. The document mostly details testimony that was given in Cuzco in 1569. The original Callapiña document was later used by Rodrigo’s two grandsons, who also petitioned for noble status and had a copy of their grandfather's investigation as the main evidence for their petition. Callapiña had a total of eight witnesses testify to affirm his lineage. The witnesses ranged from 85 to 132 years old, and were already recognized as descendants of the Inka nobility in Cuzco.\n\nThe Callapiña Document is a document that reveals the connections between elite families in Cuzco and the sixteenth-century “reconstructions” of the mytho-historical tradition of the origin of Manqo Qhapaq. Rodrigo combined, in his ancestral claim (from his paternal ancestors), descent from both Tampu T’oqo and Sutiq T’oqo. Tampu T’oqo connected him to the Inka nobility in Cuzco, and Sutiq T’oqo linked him with an ayllu of the Maskas, a division of the Tambos ethnic group from the Pacarigtambo area. When trying to deconstruct the methodology used to claim nobility, it seems that the Inka origin myth was being manipulated among high-class individuals in Cuzco wishing to exploit the benefits that came with being represented by the Spanish colonial administrative system.\n\nRodrigo is an example of the way Andean people tactfully manipulated their traditional histories to take action through colonial procedures. By doing this, they were able to slightly shape the administrative system that was being forced upon them. This example runs counter to the myth that Andean natives being colonized were simply overtaken by the system. Rodrigo Callapiña instead demonstrates that Andean natives sought to weave themselves into the fabric of the newly imposed administration by finding and exploiting loopholes, and also creatively manipulating their own histories to better their own social standing.\n"}
{"id": "52258340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52258340", "title": "Sa Bangji", "text": "Sa Bangji\n\nSa Bangji(사방지,舍方知) was a Korean intersex person during the Joseon Dynasty. Sa Bangji had hypospadias and was reared as a girl. Sa Bangji had sexual relationships with widows and Bhikkhunis.\n\n"}
{"id": "20259500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20259500", "title": "Samia Ghali", "text": "Samia Ghali\n\nSamia Ghali () (born 1968) is a French Socialist Senator, representing the Bouches-du-Rhône department. She also serves as the Mayor of the 15th and 16th arrondissements of Marseille.\n\nSamia Ghali was born on June 10, 1968, in Marseille, in the South of France. She grew up in Bassens and Campagne Lévêque, two council estates in Marseille, where she was raised by her Algerian-born grandparents.\n\nShe received a Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle (CAP), or professional certificate, as a secretary and accountant.\n\nGhali became active in politics at the age of sixteen. She became a city councillor of Marseille in 2001.\n\nSince 2008, she has served as a Senator for Bouches-du-Rhône. She also serves as the Mayor of the 15th and 16th arrondissements of Marseille.\n\nIn 2012, she suggested the French Army should be sent to the neighbourhoods of Northern Marseille to put an end to drug-trafficking. In June 2015, her own chauffeur was arrested by the French police in a drug-trafficking raid in La Castellane. She said she was \"shocked\" and \"astounded\".\n\nHer second husband is Franck Dumontel, a political administrator. She has four children.\n"}
{"id": "50672777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50672777", "title": "Shah Azahar Abdullah Ahar", "text": "Shah Azahar Abdullah Ahar\n\nMohammad Shah Azahar bin Abdullah Ahar, formerly known as Philip Anak Ahar (born 11 December 1983) is a Bruneian international footballer of Iban descent who plays for Wijaya FC and the Brunei national team as a defender.\n\nPhilip, as he was previously known, started playing club football with QAF FC of the B-League Premier 1 in the 2005–06 season as an employee of Ben Foods (B), a company under the QAF corporation. His club won the Bruneian league championship for three seasons in a row while he was there.\n\nShah Azahar joined Jerudong FC once QAF FC waived entry into the 2015 Brunei Super League, along with many of his QAF teammates. He moved again to Wijaya FC for the following 2016 season.\n\nWhile still known as Philip Anak Ahar, he made his first foray into the international scene with Brunei at the 2006 AFC Challenge Cup held in Bangladesh. He made his debut and only appearance as a late substitute in the 2-1 win over Nepal on 4 April. His next tournament was the 2010 AFC Challenge Cup qualification in which he played two games out of three, all as substitute.\n\nAfter solid displays with Jerudong FC, Shah Azahar was recalled into the international fold in mid-2015, taking the field in friendly games against Singapore and Cambodia.\n\n\nBesides football, Shah Azahar is also a long-distance runner who has finished in first place at many locally-held events. Hailing from a family of runners, his eldest brother Sefli is a celebrated Bruneian marathon runner, while his elder brother Jimmy represented Brunei at the 2004 Summer Olympics for the men's 1500 metres on top of having played league football with MS PDB.\n\nShah Azahar embraced Islam and changed his name from Philip circa 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "3100851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3100851", "title": "Steven Jay Russell", "text": "Steven Jay Russell\n\nSteven Jay Russell (born September 14, 1957) is an American con artist known for escaping from prison multiple times. \"I Love You Phillip Morris\", a film about his life and crimes, was produced in 2009. In 2011, his crimes were featured on the TV show \"I Almost Got Away with It\" in the episode \"Got a Boyfriend to Support\". He was also the subject of the 2005 \"On The Run\" episode \"King of Cons\" on The Discovery Channel.\n\nOn March 20, 1998, Russell posed as a millionaire from Virginia in an attempt to legitimize a $75,000 loan from NationsBank in Dallas; when bank officials became suspicious and alerted the police, Russell feigned a heart attack and was transported to a hospital. Russell was placed on security watch but he impersonated an FBI agent and called the hospital on his cell phone to tell them he could be released.\n\nU.S. Marshals later tracked down Russell in Florida, where they arrested him on April 5, 1998, when he went to retrieve a fax. Russell was sentenced to a total of 144 years in prison (99 years for the escapes and 45 years for subsequent scams).\n\nAs of 2010, Russell is in the Allan B. Polunsky Unit on a 23-hour lockup, only having one free hour a day to shower and exercise. He was previously held in the Mark W. Michael Unit. His maximum sentence date is July 12, 2140.\n\nA film about his life and crimes was produced in 2009, named \"I Love You Phillip Morris\", starring Jim Carrey as Steven Jay Russell and Ewan McGregor as his boyfriend Phillip Morris.\n\nSince the movie went into production and Steven Jay Russell's story became more popular, several articles appeared in print and online uncovering lesser known details of his exploits. \"Esquire\" magazine interviewed both Steven Russell and Phillip Morris for its feature, \"The Great Escapee\", while \"The Guardian\" published \"I Love You, Phillip Morris: A Conman's Story\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3392828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3392828", "title": "The Four Companions", "text": "The Four Companions\n\nThe Four Companions, also called the Four Pillars of the Sahaba is a Shiʿah term for the four Sahaba who stayed most loyal to Imam Ali after the death of the Islamic prophet Muhammad:\n\nThose among Muhammad's companions who were closest to both Muhammad and Imam Ali were called Shiʿah of Ali \"partisans of Ali\" during Muhammad's lifetime, and it was for these primarily that the following hadith was said: These companions are later referred to as \"The Real Shiʿah\". Abdullah ibn Abbas, Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr and Malik al-Ashtar were other such partisans. However, it is only The Four Companions that are believed to have attained the rank of \"The Real Shiʿah\" and remained so.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "356270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356270", "title": "Theo de Raadt", "text": "Theo de Raadt\n\nTheo de Raadt (; ; born May 19, 1968) is a software engineer who lives in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. He is the founder and leader of the OpenBSD and OpenSSH projects, and was also a founding member of NetBSD. In 2004, De Raadt won the Free Software Award for his work on OpenBSD and OpenSSH.\n\nTheo de Raadt is the eldest of four children to a Dutch father and a South African mother, with two sisters and a brother. Concern over the mandatory two-year armed forces conscription in South Africa led the family to emigrate to Calgary, Alberta, Canada in November 1977. In 1983, the largest recession in Canada since the Great Depression sent the family to the Yukon. Prior to the move, De Raadt got his first computer, a Commodore VIC-20, which was soon followed by an Amiga. It is with these computers that he first began to develop software. In 1992, he obtained a BSc in Computer Science from the University of Calgary.\n\nIn 1993, Theo de Raadt founded NetBSD with Chris Demetriou, Adam Glass, and Charles Hannum, who felt frustrated at the poor quality of 386BSD and believed an open development model would be better. 386BSD was derived from the original University of California Berkeley's 4.3BSD release, while the new NetBSD project would merge relevant code from the Networking/2 and 386BSD releases.\n\nThe new project focused on clean, portable, correct code, with the goal of producing a unified, multi-platform, production-quality BSD operating system. Because of the importance of networks such as the Internet in the distributed, collaborative nature of its development, De Raadt suggested the name \"NetBSD\", which the three other founders agreed upon.\n\nThe first NetBSD source code repository was established on March 21, 1993 and the initial release, NetBSD 0.8, was made in April 1993. This was derived from 386BSD 0.1 plus the version 0.2.2 unofficial patchkit, with several programs from the Net/2 release missing from 386BSD re-integrated, and various other improvements. In August 1993, NetBSD 0.9 was released, which contained many enhancements and bug fixes. This was still a PC-platform-only release, although by this time work was underway to add support for other architectures.\n\nNetBSD 1.0 was released in October, 1994. This was the first multi-platform release, supporting the IBM PC compatible, HP 9000 Series 300, Amiga, 68k Macintosh, Sun-4c series and PC532. Also in this release, the legally encumbered Net/2-derived source code was replaced with equivalent code from 4.4BSD-lite, in accordance with the USL v BSDi lawsuit settlement. De Raadt played a vital role in the creation of the SPARC port, implementing much of the initial code together with Chuck Cranor.\n\nIn December 1994, De Raadt was asked to resign from the NetBSD core team and his access to the source code repository was revoked. The reason for this is not entirely clear, although there are claims that it was due to personality clashes within the NetBSD project and on its mailing lists.\n\nIn his book \"Free for All\", Peter Wayner claims that De Raadt \"began to rub some people the wrong way\" before the split from NetBSD, while Linus Torvalds has described him as \"difficult\". Many have different feelings: the same interviewer describes De Raadt's \"transformation\" on founding OpenBSD and his \"desire to take care of his team,\" some find his straightforwardness refreshing, and De Raadt remains widely respected as a hacker and security expert.\n\nIn October 1995, De Raadt founded OpenBSD, a new project forked from NetBSD 1.0. The initial release, OpenBSD 1.2, was made in July 1996, followed in October of the same year by OpenBSD 2.0. Since then, the project has followed a schedule of a release every six months, each of which is maintained and supported for one year.\n\nDe Raadt has been a vocal advocate of free software since the inception of OpenBSD, but he is also a strong proponent of free speech, having on occasion had rather public disputes with various groups, from Linux advocates to governments. This outspoken attitude, while sometimes the cause of conflict, has also led him to acclaim; De Raadt has given presentations at open source, free software and security conferences around the world—including FOSDEM in Brussels, Belgium, Usenix in San Antonio, Texas, U.S., AUUG Conference in Melbourne, Australia and FISL in Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.\n\nAfter De Raadt stated his disapproval of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in an April, 2003 interview with Toronto's \"Globe and Mail\", a multi-million-dollar US Department of Defense grant to the University of Pennsylvania's POSSE project was cancelled, effectively ending the project. Funding from the grant had been used in the development of OpenSSH and OpenBSD, as well as many other projects and was to be used to pay for the \"hackathon\" planned for May 8, 2003. Despite money from the grant already having been used to secure accommodations for sixty developers for a week, the money was reclaimed by the government at a loss and the hotel was told not to allow the developers to pay the reclaimed money to resecure the rooms. This resulted in criticism among some that the US military held an anti-free speech attitude. The grant termination was, however, not as bad a blow as some portrayed it. The project's supporters rallied to help and the hackathon went on almost as planned. The funding was cut mere months before the end of the grant, further fueling the speculations regarding the situation surrounding the grant's termination.\n\nDe Raadt is also well known for his advocacy of free software drivers. He has long been critical of developers of Linux and other free platforms for their tolerance of non-free drivers and acceptance of non-disclosure agreements.\n\nIn particular, De Raadt has worked to convince wireless hardware vendors to allow the firmware images of their products to be freely redistributed. These efforts have been largely successful, particularly in negotiations with Taiwanese companies, leading to many new wireless drivers. De Raadt has commented that \"most Taiwanese vendors give us documentation almost immediately,\" allowing open source drivers to reliably support devices, as opposed to the lack of willingness from US companies like Intel and Broadcom to release firmware images free from licensing restrictions.\n\nIn April 2007, De Raadt was involved in a controversy involving the use of GPL code from the Linux \"bcm43xx\" driver in the BSD \"bcw\" driver. Linux developers accused the BSD community of infringing GPL code, but De Raadt denied infringement, arguing that the BSD driver was not \"released.\" He also maintained that the conflict was not about GPL, but the way Linux developer Michael Buesch handled the situation. To Buesch's email, he responded:\nAnother clash occurred in August 2007, when a group of Linux developers attempted to modify the license of dual-licensed ath5k driver. De Raadt summarized the issue as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1241762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1241762", "title": "Thomas William Robertson", "text": "Thomas William Robertson\n\nThomas William Robertson (9 January 1829 – 3 February 1871), usually known professionally as T. W. Robertson, was an English dramatist and innovative stage director best known for a series of realistic or naturalistic plays produced in London in the 1860s that broke new ground and inspired playwrights such as W.S. Gilbert and George Bernard Shaw.\n\nBorn in Newark-upon-Trent, Nottinghamshire, England, Robertson was the oldest son of William Robertson, a provincial actor and manager. His family was famous for producing actors. The actress Margaret (Madge) Robertson was his youngest sister. As a child, Robertson acted in juvenile parts in \"Rob Roy\", \"Pizarro\", \"The Stranger\", \"French\" parts and eccentric comedy on the Lincoln Circuit and at the Marylebone in London. He also visited Paris as the stage manager and interpreter for an English company. Never a successful actor himself, he wrote numerous plays, mostly comedies, many of which achieved popularity. Robertson died at the age of 42 and is buried, as is his wife Elizabeth, at Abney Park Cemetery in Stoke Newington.\n\nAs a dramatist, Robertson began with adaptations of Dickens novels and wrote music hall songs for comedians. He produced a farcical comedy, \"A Night's Adventure\" at London's Olympic Theatre in 1851, but this did not catch on, and he remained for several more years in the provinces, acting and continuing with play writing and writing for newspapers. In 1860, he moved to London and worked as an editor, also writing a novel, later dramatised under the title \"Shadow Tree Shaft\". He also wrote a farce entitled \"A Cantab\", which was played at the Royal Strand Theatre in 1861. This brought him a reputation among a Bohemian clique of writers, the \"Fun\" magazine gang (including W. S. Gilbert, Tom Hood, Clement Scott, and F. C. Burnand), but so little profit that he thought of abandoning the profession to become a tobacconist. Finally, in 1864, he had his first notable playwriting success, \"David Garrick\", produced at the Haymarket Theatre with Edward Sothern in the title role. Robertson also wrote the libretto to the 1865 comic opera \"Constance\", with music by Frederic Clay.\n\nRobertson found fame in 1865 with the production of his comedy \"Society\", under the management of Squire Bancroft and his wife Marie (née Wilton) at the Prince of Wales's Theatre in the West End. The play includes a scene that fictionalized the \"Fun\" gang, who frequented the Arundel Club, the Savage Club, and especially Evans's café, where they had a table in competition with the \"Punch\" 'Round table'. This play became regarded as a milestone in Victorian drama because of its realism in sets, costume, acting and dialogue.\n\nAll of Robertson's popular plays, except for \"David Garrick\", were produced by the Bancrofts at the Prince of Wales's Theatre. Other Robertson successes included the domestic dramas \"Ours\" (1866), \"Caste\" (1867), \"Play\" (1868), \"School\" (1869), and \"M.P.\" (1870). He also wrote \"Dreams\" for the Gaiety Theatre, London, which opened that new theatre in 1868 together with Gilbert's \"Robert the Devil\". His last play, \"War\", was produced at the St. James's Theatre in 1871, the year in which he died. Robertson's plays are still occasionally seen. For example, \"Ours\" was given a professional production in July 2007 at the Finborough Theatre, London.\n\nRobertson's plays became known as 'problem plays', because they dealt seriously and sensitively with issues of the day. In the 1850s and 1860s, Robertson's plays, both in style and substance, were considered revolutionary. \"Caste\" was about marriage across the class barrier and explored prejudices towards social climbing. These plays were notable for their \"cup and saucer\" realism, treating contemporary British subjects in settings that were realistic, unlike the oversize acting in Victorian melodramas that were popular at the time. For example, whereas previously a designer would put as many chairs into a dining room scene as there were actors who needed to sit down, Robertson would place on stage as many chairs as would realistically be found in that dining room, even if some were never actually used. Or, if someone came in from a blizzard, snow would blow in from the doorway. In \"Ours\", a pudding was made on stage, and this caused a major furore – people were not used to seeing such realistic tasks in a stage setting. Also, the characters spoke in normal language and dealt with ordinary situations rather than declaiming their lines.\n\nIn addition, the importance of everyday incidents, the revealing of character through apparent \"small talk\", and the idea that what is not said in the dialogue is as important as what is said are all Robertson trademarks. Some critics wrote that there was nothing in Robertson's plays but commonplace life represented without a trace of wit and sparkle, but many admired the new style of play and new style of acting. George Bernard Shaw called Robertson's play \"Caste\" \"epoch making\" and referred to Robertson's innovations as a \"theatrical revolution\". It is now disputed whether Robertson really originated some of his innovations, but \"Society\" and its successors were viewed at the time as something new and, in a quiet way, revolutionary.\n\nThe Bancrofts, impressed with Robertson's dedication and skill, gave Robertson unusual artistic freedom to control his scripts and direct (or as it was then called, \"stage manage\") his plays. Before Robertson and James Robinson Planché, star actors generally had control of scripts, and theatre managers had control of casting in the theatre. Robertson insisted on retaining control over his scripts and casting and required that his actors follow his directions - a novel concept at that time. Robertson directed his own plays and aimed to get rid of the unreal stylisation and bombast of the old melodramas. He did not act in his plays but instead took on the role of a professional director to control the action on stage. W. S. Gilbert attended Robertson's rehearsals to learn from the older playwright's use of \"stagecraft\" and personally directed his own plays and operas based on what he had learned. Gilbert later recalled:\n\nWhy, he invented stage management. It was an unknown art before his time. Formerly, in a conversation scene for instance, you simply brought down two or three chairs, and people sat down and talked, and when the conversation was ended the chairs were replaced. Robertson showed how to give life and variety and nature to the scene, by breaking it up with all sorts of little incidents and delicate by-play. I have been at many of his rehearsals and learnt a great deal from them.\n\nThese pioneers opened the way for later proponents of realism in drama, such as Shaw, and for modern methods of play production. Robertson was also a leader in requiring a fee from his managers for every performance of his plays, thus pioneering the modern royalty system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36556161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36556161", "title": "Tri Setyo Nugroho", "text": "Tri Setyo Nugroho\n\nTri Setyo Nugroho (born March 29, 1989 in Semarang) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Persisam Putra Samarinda in the Indonesia Super League.\n"}
{"id": "33137174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33137174", "title": "Twipsy", "text": "Twipsy\n\nTwipsy was the official Mascot of the EXPO 2000 World's Fair held in Hannover. The character was created by the Spanish designer Javier Mariscal. His draft was selected in 1995 by an international jury out of 17 proposals in total. During the course of the Expo, Twipsy could be acquired on the EXPO area on forms of merchandise, ranging from a stuffed plush toy, to apparel such as on T-shirts, mugs, watches and other souvenirs, in addition to those with the EXPO logo. Apart from that, stamps showing Twipsy were released, and full-sized versions of Twipsy were running around on the EXPO area and advertising for the EXPO in other countries.\n\nTwipsy has a drop-shaped, colourfully striped body and a demilune yellow head with a large turquoise-colored nose. The area around the eyes, the extension at the back of the head and the chin are black. He's wearing a pointed, high-heeled shoe as well as a rounded flat one. He also has a \"normal\" thin and an oversized orange arm (which resembles a wing). The colour scheme may vary depending on the version.\n\nDuring a design contest in 1995 to elect the ideal official mascot for the Expo 2000 in Hannover, Twipsy was chosen out of 17 proposals in total by an international jury, despite receiving only 1% of the public vote.\n\nAccording to Mariscal, Twipsy is said to be a burst of energy who came \"...from a distant past such as is the Big Bang, a spark in expansion that became a star, a cell, an invertebrate, a reptile, a bird, a mammal...\" and into his present form.\n\nAdditionally, Mariscal cites that it was his intention to \"...embody the triangular aspects of the key theme \"Humankind - Nature - Technology\" in one figure... therefore [Twipsy] resembles a new type of being, a new human-animal-technological species.\" Additionally, Twipsy \"...harmonise[d] with the corporate design of [the EXPO],\", and was also \"...adaptable in terms of shape and colour, and [therefore] a suitable playful and informative partner for the EXPO logo.\"\n\nOn November 1, 1999, the animated series \"Twipsy\" aired on the German TV channel KI.KA with 52 short episodes, 13 minutes each (they were often paired to make 26 episodes, having a total length of 25 minutes per pair.) Seven months prior to the start of the EXPO 2000, the series premiere was used to get children accustomed to the upcoming World Exposition, however it focused only on character backstory, and had no connection to the Expo.\n\nIn the first episode, 13-year-old Nick was pulled by accident into the Cyberspace. He then meets the colourful and feisty E-Mail delivery man Twipsy, who introduces Nick to the virtual realm; of course Nick gets homesick and together, Twipsy sends him back to the real world, while inadvertently ending up there too.\n\nA modified scanner is since being used as a Transporter into the universe of the internet. Through way, many other children, for example Nick's 8-year-old sister Lissie or his friend Albert experience many adventures and get to know the cyberspace realm, and most of the time, for Twipsy to get to know the aspects of the real world, such as weather, or his newfound love (and gluttony) of food.\n\nThe characters are displayed using computer graphics when they're residing in the Cyberspace, and in the \"real world\" using conventional comic style. Apart from that, all persons are nearly the same size and appearance as Twipsy himself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7901", "title": "Vladimir Harkonnen", "text": "Vladimir Harkonnen\n\nThe Baron Vladimir Harkonnen is a fictional character and antagonist from the \"Dune\" universe created by Frank Herbert. He is primarily featured in the 1965 novel \"Dune\" and is also a prominent character in the \"Prelude to Dune\" prequel trilogy (1999-2001) by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson. The character is brought back as a ghola in the Herbert/Anderson sequels which conclude the original series, \"Hunters of Dune\" (2006) and \"Sandworms of Dune\" (2007).\n\nFrank Herbert wanted a harsh-sounding name for the antagonists of his novel, \"Dune\". Herbert came across the name \"Härkönen\" in a California telephone book and thought that it sounded \"Soviet\" (it is in fact Finnish), which touched a nerve with Cold War-era readers. In earlier drafts of his novel, the lead villain was called \"Valdemar Hoskanner\".\n\nHerbert's \"Appendix IV: The Almanak en-Ashraf (Selected Excerpts of the Noble Houses)\" in \"Dune\" says of Harkonnen (in part):\nIn \"Dune\", Herbert writes that the Baron possesses a \"basso voice\" and is so \"grossly and immensely fat\" that he requires anti-gravity devices known as suspensors to support his weight.\n\nAs ruthless and cruel as he is intelligent and cunning, the Baron has a talent for manipulating others and exploiting their weaknesses. His sexual preference for young men is implied in \"Dune\" and \"Children of Dune\". It is noted, however, that he \"once permitted himself to be seduced\" in the liaison which produced his secret daughter.\n\nAs \"Dune\" begins, a longstanding feud exists between the Harkonnens of Giedi Prime and the Atreides of Caladan. The Baron's intent to exterminate the Atreides line seems close to fruition as Duke Leto Atreides is lured to the desert planet Arrakis on the pretense of taking over the valuable melange operation there. The Baron has an agent in the Atreides household: Leto's own physician, the trusted Suk doctor Wellington Yueh. Though Suk Imperial Conditioning supposedly makes the subject incapable of inflicting harm, the Baron's twisted Mentat Piter De Vries notes:\n\nThe Baron has taken Yueh's wife Wanna prisoner, threatening her with interminable torture unless Yueh complies with his demands. Harkonnen also distracts Leto's Mentat Thufir Hawat from discovering Yueh by guiding Hawat toward another suspect: Leto's Bene Gesserit concubine Lady Jessica, of whom Hawat is already distrustful. The Atreides are soon attacked by Harkonnen forces (secretly supplemented by the seemingly unstoppable Imperial Sardaukar) as Yueh disables the protective shields around the Atreides palace on Arrakis. As instructed, Yueh takes Leto prisoner; however, desiring to slay the Baron, Yueh provides the captive Leto with a fake tooth filled with poisonous gas as a means of simultaneous assassination and suicide. De Vries kills Yueh but he also dies with Leto in the assassination attempt; however Harkonnen survives. The Baron then manipulates Hawat into his service, by convincing Hawat that Lady Jessica was the traitor and using Hawat's desire for revenge on Lady Jessica and the Emperor as motivation to assist House Harkonnen.\n\nLeto and Jessica's son Paul Atreides flee into the desert with Jessica, and both are presumed dead. Paul's prescience helps him determine the identity of Jessica's father, the \"maternal grandfather who cannot be named\" — the Baron himself. Over the next two years, Harkonnen learns that his nephews Glossu Rabban and Feyd-Rautha are conspiring against him to usurp his throne; he lets them continue to do so, reasoning that they have to somehow learn to organize a conspiracy. As punishment for a failed assassination attempt against him, Harkonnen forces Feyd to single-handedly slaughter all the female slaves who serve as Feyd's lovers. He explains that Feyd has to learn the price of failure.\n\nThe Baron's plan to assure Feyd's power is to install him as ruler of Arrakis after a period of tyrannical misrule by Rabban, making Feyd appear to be the savior of the people. However, a crisis on Arrakis begins when the mysterious Muad'Dib emerges as a leader of the native Fremen tribes against the rule of the Harkonnens. Eventually, a series of Fremen victories against Beast Rabban threaten to disrupt the trade of the spice. The Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV decides to intervene himself and arrives on Arrakis along with legions of Sardaukar forces. Shaddam and the Baron are shocked to learn that Muad'Dib is, of course, a very-much-alive Paul Atreides. The Imperial forces fall prey to a surprise attack by the Fremen. Part of the Fremen/Atreides strategy is to wait until a sandstorm shorts out the force field shields of the Harkonnen/Imperial transport ships, disable them with projectile weapons, and then attack with a vast assault force, using sandworms under cover of the severe weather to break the enemy lines. The Sardaukar and Harkonnen forces are trapped on the planet, astonished at the sandworm mounts and vast numbers of their attackers. Their past ruthlessness gives them little hope of quarter from the enraged Fremen.\n\nRabban dies in the initial part of the battle; the Harkonnen army is massacred to the last man and almost all the Imperial Sardaukar are killed. Baron Harkonnen himself is poisoned with a gom jabbar by Paul's young sister Alia Atreides, his own granddaughter, and dies at the age of 83, with the latter also revealing her direct lineage to him just beforehand. Paul then kills Feyd in ritual combat. House Harkonnen's virtual extermination removes it as a galactic power, but Paul's ascension to the Imperial throne in Shaddam's place guarantees that Vladimir's descendants will long reign as the Imperial House Atreides.\n\nAlia had been born with her ancestral memories in the womb, a circumstance the Bene Gesserit refer to as Abomination, because in their experience it is inevitable that the individual will become possessed by the personality of one of their ancestors. In \"Children of Dune\", Alia falls victim to this prediction when she shares control of her body with the ego-memory of the Baron Harkonnen, and eventually falls under his power. Alia eventually commits suicide, realizing that Harkonnen's consciousness has surpassed her abilities to contain him.\n\nIn the \"Prelude to Dune\" prequel series by Brian Herbert and Anderson, it is established that Baron Vladimir Harkonnen is the son and heir of Dmitri Harkonnen and his wife Victoria. Harkonnen's father had been the head of House Harkonnen and ruled the planet Giedi Prime. Trained since youth as a possible successor, Vladimir had been eventually chosen over his half-brother Abulurd (namesake of the original). Unhappy with his brother's doings, Abulurd eventually marries Emmi Rabban and renounces the family name and his rights to the title. Under the name Abulurd Rabban, he reigns as governor of the secondary Harkonnen planet Lankiveil. Abulurd and his wife have two sons: Glossu Rabban (later nicknamed \"Beast Rabban\" after he murders his own father) and Feyd-Rautha; Vladimir later adopts the boys back into House Harkonnen, and Feyd becomes his designated heir.\n\nThe Baron's most prominent political rival is Duke Leto Atreides; the Harkonnens and the Atreides have been bitter enemies for millennia, since the Battle of Corrin that ended the Butlerian Jihad. When Emperor Shaddam IV orchestrates a plot to destroy the \"Red Duke\" Leto, the Baron eagerly lends his aid.\n\nThe young Baron Vladimir is described as an exceedingly handsome man, possessing red hair and a near-perfect physique. The Bene Gesserit Reverend Mother Gaius Helen Mohiam is instructed by the Sisterhood to collect the genetic material of Baron Vladimir Harkonnen (through conception) for their breeding program. As the Baron's homosexuality is something of an open secret, Mohiam blackmails him into having sexual relations with her and conceives his child. When that daughter proves genetically undesirable, Mohiam kills her and returns to Harkonnen for a second try; at this point he drugs and viciously rapes her. She exacts her retribution by infecting him with a rare, incurable disease that later causes his obesity. Mohiam's second child with the Baron is Jessica.\n\nIn \"\", the deteriorating Baron at first walks with the assistance of a cane, then relies on belt-mounted suspensors to retain mobility. He consults numerous doctors in the expanse of time between the \"\" and \"Dune: House Harkonnen\", up to and including his future instrument Dr. Yueh, all of whom are ultimately no help. To conceal this debilitation, he pretends that his obesity is due to intentional overindulgence, lest the Landsraad remove him from power. When he determines that Mohiam inflicted him with the disease, he attempts to coerce her into revealing the cure, but soon discovers that there is none.\n\nThe Baron, Duke Leto, and Jessica herself are unaware that Jessica is secretly the Baron's daughter or that he has even fathered one; in the year 10,176, the Baron's grandson Paul is born to Leto and Jessica.\n\nIn \"Hunters of Dune\" (2006), the continuation of the original series by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson, the Baron is resurrected as a ghola (5,029 years after the death of Alia) by the Lost Tleilaxu Uxtal, acting on orders from the Face Dancer Khrone. Khrone intends to use the Baron ghola to manipulate a ghola of Paul Atreides, named Paolo. Khrone tries various torture techniques for three years to awaken the 12-year-old Baron's genetic memories; these methods fail due to the Baron's sadomasochistic nature. Khrone is successful when he imprisons the Baron in a sensory deprivation tank for a prolonged period; the Baron's memories of his former life return. The reincarnated Baron is soon haunted by the voice of Alia in his mind; the source of this inner Alia is never explained.\n\nIn David Lynch's 1984 film, Baron Harkonnen was portrayed by Kenneth McMillan. In this characterization, he is grotesquely overweight, dressed in filthy garments and covered in large, black pustules which require constant draining and treatment. This version of the character is more overtly unstable than in the novel, screaming and laughing incoherently at any given moment and even drinking the blood of a servant after removing a \"heart plug.\" Diverging from the novel, after Alia pricks Harkonnen with the gom jabbar, she pushes him and sends him flying through a hole in the palace wall, to be devoured by a giant sandworm.\n\nBritish actor Ian McNeice's interpretation of the Baron in the 2000 Sci-Fi Channel miniseries \"Frank Herbert's Dune\" (and its sequel, 2003's \"Children of Dune\") is, though dramatic, somewhat lighter, more eloquent and sane in comparison to Lynch's version, and therefore more consistent with the novel. Though the Baron still takes sadistic enjoyment in the suffering of others, he is portrayed as somewhat flamboyant, pompous, calculating and self-indulgent, with a tendency to speak in iambic pentameter when the mood strikes him.\n\nThough Herbert's novel \"Dune\" seems to describe Harkonnen's suspensor belt as simply enabling him to stand and walk upright rather than actually \"fly,\" both the 1984 film and the 2000 miniseries feature the Baron utilizing the suspensors to levitate off the ground and float through the air in a flying-like manner. The later \"Prelude to Dune\" prequels also employ this floating ability. Herbert does, however, note Harkonnen floating slightly off the floor after he is killed.\n\nThe video game \"\", whose in-game cut scenes are visually inspired by David Lynch's film, features a character named Baron Rakan Harkonnen, portrayed by Mike McShane. This Harkonnen is nearly identical to the film's version of Vladimir in both appearance (minus the belt-mounted suspensors) and personality, and also dies by poisoning.\n\nH. R. Giger's Harkonnen Capo Chair is a chair originally designed by the artist as set dressing for an unrealized 1970s adaptation of \"Dune\" by Alejandro Jodorowsky.\n\n"}
{"id": "19869661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19869661", "title": "Vladimir Zenzinov", "text": "Vladimir Zenzinov\n\nVladimir Mikhailovich Zenzinov (; historically, his surname was also transcribed as Sensinoff: 29 November 1880 — 20 October 1953) was a member of Russia's Socialist-Revolutionary Party, a participant of the First (1905), Second (February 1917), and Third (November 1917) Russian Revolutions, and an author of a number of books.\n\nVladimir Zenzinov was born in Moscow in 1880, the son of a merchant. He studied at several universities in Germany and was known as one of the 'Heidelberg SRs'. His friendship with N.D. Avksentiev and A.R. Gots dates from that period. He joined the Socialist-Revolutionary Party (PSR) in 1901 and returned to Russia in 1904. Arrested at the beginning of the Revolution of 1905 and sentenced to five years banishment in Siberia, he escaped to Western Europe, then returned to St. Petersburg in 1906. He worked for the PSR in various capacities and was elected to its Central Committee. He was active in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Kiev. In September 1906, he was arrested again and banished to Siberia. In 1907, he escaped, making his way to Western Europe via Japan, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Singapore, Colombo, and the Suez Canal. He soon returned illegally to Russia.\n\nArrested again in 1910, Zenzinov was banished to northern Yakutsk to make escape impossible. There he devoted himself to ethnographic studies and wrote several pioneering anthropological works on the subject, e.g.: \"Starinnye liudi u kholodnogo okeana\" (Moscow, 1914) and \"Ocherki torgovli na severe Yakutskoi oblasti\" (Moscow, 1916). In his memoirs, he tells of some extremely isolated places he visited, such as the village of Russkoye Ustye in the Arctic Yakutia. In 1915 Zenzinov returned to European Russia and lived in Moscow and St. Petersburg. He participated in the February Revolution of 1917, played various roles in the All-Russian Soviet of Workers', Soldiers' and Peasants' Deputies and supported the Provisional Government under A.F. Kerensky. With respect to World War I, which bitterly divided the PSR, Zenzinov adopted a 'Revolutionary Defencist' position: opposed to the war before the February Revolution, he supported the 'defence of the revolution' against Germany. Zenzinov tried to mediate between more radical 'Defencists' (like A.A. Argunov and the 'Internationalists' led by V.M. Chernov and M.A. Natanson.\n\nZenzinov opposed the October Revolution. He was elected as an SR deputy to the one-day Constituent Assembly, dispersed by the Bolsheviks in 1918. Thereafter Zenzinov joined the rump Constituent Assembly government in Samara in 1918. He was briefly one of the Directors of the Provisional All-Russian Government, together with N.D. Avksentiev and others. Arrested during a military coup by Admiral Kolchak in November 1918, Zenzinov was exiled to China. From there he made his way back to Western Europe. He lived in Berlin until Hitler came to power in 1933, then moved to Paris. During this time he published several more books and worked for a variety of émigré socialist journals, including \"Volya Rossiya\", \"Golos Rossii\", \"Dni\", \"Novaya Rossiya\" and \"Sovremennye Zapiski\".\n\nIn 1939, Zenzinov went to Finland to witness the beginning of World War II and the Soviet attack on Finland, and to gather information on Russia. In 1940, Zenzinov emigrated to the United States, settling in New York and writing his memoirs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2577967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2577967", "title": "William Ruto", "text": "William Ruto\n\nWilliam Samoei Arap Ruto (born 21 December 1966) is a Kenyan politician who has been Deputy President of Kenya since 2013. He served as the Acting President of Kenya between 5 and 8 October 2014 while President Uhuru Kenyatta was away at the Hague. He previously served in various ministerial positions including the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Higher Education. He was Secretary General of KANU, the former ruling political party, and MP for Eldoret North Constituency between December 1997 and January 2013. He won the seat in the 1997 Kenyan election after defeating Reuben Chesire. He was appointed to the position of Assistant Minister in the Office of the President by President Daniel arap Moi in 1998. He was promoted to be Minister for Home Affairs in August 2002. He also previously served as the Chairman of the Parliamentary Select Committee on Constitutional Reform in the 9th Parliament.\n\nOn 4 March 2013, he was elected as Deputy President alongside President Uhuru Kenyatta. They won on a Jubilee Coalition ticket.\n\nWilliam Ruto was among the list of people who were tried at the International Criminal Court (ICC) for their involvement in Kenya's 2007-8 electoral violence. However, the case was faced with challenges especially concerning withdrawal of key prosecution witnesses. In April 2016, the prosecution of Ruto was abandoned by the International Criminal Court.\n\nRuto was born 21 December 1966 in Sambut village, Kamagut, Uasin Gishu to Daniel Cheruiyot and Sarah Cheruiyot. He attended Kerotet Primary School for his primary school education then joined Wareng Secondary School for his Ordinary Levels education before proceeding to Kapsabet Boys, Nandi for his Advanced Levels. He then went on to receive a BSc (Botany and Zoology) from the University of Nairobi, graduating in 1990.He was honoured with PhD from the University of Nairobi graduating in September 2018. He was also a member of Christian Union where he served as Chairman. He was ranked the best student in his class. He later enrolled for MSc in Environmental Science, graduating in 2011.\n\nRuto was Organising Secretary of Youth for Kanu '92 (YK92), a group that was formed to drum up support for President Daniel arap Moi in the 1992 election.\n\nIn January 2006, Ruto declared publicly that he would stand for the presidency in the next general election, scheduled for December 2007. His statement was condemned by some of his KANU colleagues, including former president Moi. Ruto sought the nomination of the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) as its presidential candidate, but in the party's vote on 1 September 2007, he placed third with 368 votes, behind the winner, Raila Odinga (with 2,656 votes) and Musalia Mudavadi (with 391). Ruto expressed his support for Odinga after the vote. He resigned from his post as KANU secretary general on 6 October 2007.\nThe presidential election of December 2007 ended in an impasse. Kenya's electoral commission declared Kibaki the winner, but Raila and ODM claimed the victory. In a scene that has been replicated all over Africa, Mwai Kibaki was hurriedly sworn in as the president December 2007 presidential election. Following the election and dispute over the result Kenya was engulfed by a violent political crisis. Kibaki and Odinga agreed to form a power-sharing government. In the grand coalition Cabinet named on 13 April 2008 and sworn in on 17 April, Ruto was appointed as Minister for Agriculture.\n\nOn 21 April 2010, Ruto was transferred from the agriculture ministry and posted to the higher education ministry, swapping posts with Sally Kosgei. On 24 August 2011, William Ruto was relieved of his ministerial duties, and remaining a member of parliament. He joined with Uhuru Kenyatta to form the Jubilee alliance for the 2013 presidential election.\n\nOn 6 October 2014 Ruto was appointed acting president of Kenya by President Uhuru Kenyatta following his summons to appear before the ICC.\n\nIt is believed he will succeed Kenyatta and run for the party presidency in 2022.\n\nIn December 2010, the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court announced that he was seeking summonses of six people, including Ruto over their involvement in the 2007-8 electoral violence. The ICC's Pre-Trial Chamber subsequently issued a summons for Ruto at the prosecutor's request. Ruto is accused of planning and organising crimes against supporters of President Kibaki's Party of National Unity. He is charged with three counts of crimes against humanity, one of each of murder, forcible transfer of population and persecution. On 23 January 2012, the ICC confirmed the charges against Ruto and Joshua Sang, in a case that also involved Uhuru Kenyatta, Francis Muthaura, Henry Kosgey and Major General Mohammed Hussein Ali.\n\nHe told the American government that the Kiambaa church fire on 1 January 2008 after the 2007 Kenyan general election was accidental.\n\nThe Waki Commission report stated in 2009 that \"the incident which captured the attention of both Kenyans and the world was the deliberate burning alive of mostly Kikuyu women and children huddled together in a church\" in Kiambaa on 1 January 2008.\n\nThe death toll was 17 burned alive in the church, 11 dying in or on the way to hospital, 54 others suffered various injuries and were treated and discharged.\n\nIn April 2016, the prosecution of Ruto was abandoned by the International Criminal Court.\n\nWilliam Ruto was on trial charged with defrauding the Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) of huge amounts of money through dubious land deals, but he has been out on bond. The Constitutional Court suspended further hearing of the case due to complaints by Ruto that the prosecution was politically engineered. However, the High Court cleared the path for criminal charges against the Higher Education minister over the alleged sale of a piece of land in Ngong' forest to Kenya Pipeline Company Ltd.\nHe was however acquitted of the allegations after a court cleared him of the charges.\n\nIn early 2009 after parliamentary debate on a maize scandal, Ruto was accused of illegally selling maize by Ikolomani MP Bonny Khalwale. Fake documents bearing the National Cereals and Produce Board seal that linked Mr Ruto to the illegal sale of maize were rejected by Parliament’s deputy speaker.\n\nWilliam Ruto attributed the maize scandal allegations and claims of his involvement in corruption to the work of his \"political enemies\".\n\nIn early 2015, William Ruto was accused of illegally acquiring land belonging to Lang'ata Road Primary School to pave way for a car parking lot for a hotel allegedly belonging to him. The incident, which was widely reported around the world, showed pictures of hapless pupils being teargassed. Ruto denied his involvement in the land saga but later admitted that he owned the hotel that had allegedly grabbed the school's playground.\nSo wide was the outrage against the treatment of children at Lang'ata Road Primary School that the Cabinet Secretary in charge of Land in Kenya gave a statement that said the hotel that had grabbed the school land belonged to some Singh brothers. At a press conference in her office, Mrs Ngilu named Nairobi businessmen Mandip Singh Amrit, Manjit Singh Amrit, Harbans Singh Amrit and Kamal Prakash Amrit as the owners of the company linked to the controversial acquisition of Lang’ata Road Primary School land.\n\nWhile Ruto and Odinga were both from the Orange Democratic Movement of the power-sharing government, they disagreed on the issue of the proposed constitution draft, with Ruto calling for rejection of the draft in the upcoming constitutional referendum, arguing that some of its clauses are unsuitable, while Odinga and Kibaki campaigned for the constitution.\n\nRuto married Rachel Chebet in 1991; they have six children.\n\nIn February 2017 Prisca Chemutai Bett claimed that Ruto had fathered her 11-year-old daughter Abby Cherop Ruto, a claim that Ruto accepted.\n\nOn 28 July 2017, Ruto's home in Sugoi village near Eldoret was targeted by at least one attacker armed with machete and a police officer guarding the residence was injured during the attack. During the time of the attack, he and his family were not at the compound as he had left hours earlier for a campaign rally in Kitale. There were also reports of gunfire and several security sources said the attack was staged by multiple people using guns. Police also thought there are a few attackers initially because the attacker used different firearms.. Several hours later on 30 July, Kenya Police chief Joseph Boinnet announced that the attacker was shot dead and the situation was under control.\n\n"}
{"id": "8080626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8080626", "title": "Zell Kravinsky", "text": "Zell Kravinsky\n\nZell Kravinsky is an American investor and utilitarian who is known for making a non-directed kidney donation to a stranger and for donating over $45 million of his personal wealth to charity. He is also a poet.\n\nKravinsky was born to a Jewish family and earned two Ph.D. degrees from the University of Pennsylvania, one in 1989 in Rhetoric with a dissertation on Aristotle’s topoi, and the other in 1994 in English Literature with a dissertation on paradoxical polysemy in Milton's \"Paradise Lost\". He also completed required courses for a third doctoral degree, in cultural anthropology from The New School For Social Research, but did not take the preliminary examination or write a dissertation. His B.A. from Dartmouth College was in Asian Studies, with a specialty in Indian Studies.\n\nHe lectured full-time at Penn for some years, was a Faculty in Residence for four years, and one year was selected, in the University's published book of student evaluations, as the most overall highly ranked faculty member at Penn. Kravinsky then worked for insurance companies designing and teaching training workshops in management development; taught handicapped (\"learning disabled\" and “socially and emotionally disturbed,” i.e., conduct-disordered) children in inner-city Philadelphia schools; and taught Transcendental Meditation.\n\nAfter amassing a real estate fortune, having started with one thousand dollars, Kravinsky gave away virtually all of it to various charities, concentrating on public health organizations. Specifically, he donated almost all of the $45 million he amassed in real estate to charities dealing with improving health; he made the largest individual contribution ever to the foundation supporting the United States government Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and also made major donations to The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and to the Ohio State University College of Public Health.\n\nAfter Kravinsky learned that many African-Americans have difficulty obtaining kidneys from family members, he sought out a hospital in Philadelphia that would allow him to donate one of his kidneys to a lower-income black person.\n\nAccording to Peter Singer, writing in \"The New York Times\", Kravinsky justified the donation mathematically when speaking to Singer's students, noting that the chances of dying as a result of the procedure would have been about 1 in 4,000. Kravinsky believed that, under the circumstances, \"to withhold a kidney from someone who would otherwise die means valuing one’s own life at 4,000 times that of a stranger\", a ratio he termed \"obscene.\"\n\nFollowing the kidney donation, Kravinsky did several interviews with the media, including a radio conference with Robert Siegel of NPR and a TV appearance on CBS among others. During some of these public interviews, Kravinsky argued that should someone be, for instance, on the verge of curing cancer but would die unless Kravinsky were to donate his second kidney, that being the only match in the world, that it would be morally correct to donate the kidney in order that millions of people would be saved. Kravinsky has noted that this admittedly theoretical and highly improbable scenario is the logical extension of someone risking his life by jumping into icy water to save a child, or a soldier cradling a hand grenade to save his buddies.\n\nHe is mentioned in former President Bill Clinton's book \"Giving,\" and in an article in the December 10, 2008 issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association, The Economics of Health Equity.\n\n"}
