{"id": "7673122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7673122", "title": "Argument from desire", "text": "Argument from desire\n\nThe argument from desire is an argument for the existence of God and/or a heavenly afterlife. The best-known defender of the argument is the Christian writer C. S. Lewis. Briefly and roughly, the argument states that humans’ natural desire for eternal happiness must be capable of satisfaction, because all natural desires are capable of satisfaction. Versions of the argument have been offered since the Middle Ages, and the argument continues to have defenders today, such as Peter Kreeft and Francis Collins .\n\nVersions of the argument from desire were commonplace during the Middle Ages and Renaissance. Here is how Aquinas states the argument:\n\n\"[I]t is impossible for natural desire to be unfulfilled, since ‘nature does nothing in vain.’ Now, natural desire would be in vain if it could never be fulfilled. Therefore, man’s natural desire is capable of fulfillment, but not in this life . . . . So, it must be fulfilled after this life. Therefore, man’s ultimate felicity comes after this life.\"\n\nIn this form, the argument depends crucially on the Aristotelian dictum that “nature does nothing in vain”. Medieval critics of the argument, such as Duns Scotus, questioned whether the dictum is strictly true. Scotus pointed out that many animals seem to have an instinct for self-preservation. Isn’t this an example of an unfulfillable natural desire for eternal life? [citation needed]\n\nThe most prominent recent defender of the argument from desire is the well-known Christian apologist C. S. Lewis (1898 – 1963). Lewis offers slightly different forms of the argument in works such as \"Mere Christianity\" (1952), \"The Pilgrim’s Regress\" (1933; 3rd ed., 1943), \"Surprised by Joy\" (1955), and “The Weight of Glory” (1940). Unlike medieval versions of the argument from desire, Lewis does not appeal to a universal, ever-present longing for eternal happiness but to a specific type of ardent and fleeting spiritual longing that he calls “Joy.”\n\nLewis uses the term “Joy” in a special sense to refer to a particular type of desire, longing, or emotional response that he assumes will be familiar to at least most of his readers. Joy is a form of desire, Lewis claims, but of a unique sort. Experiences of Joy are brief, intense, thrilling “pangs” or “stabs” of longing that are at once both intensely desirable and achingly painful. Though Joy is a form of desire, it differs from all other desires in two respects. First, whereas other desires “are felt as pleasures only if satisfaction is expected in the near future,” with Joy “the mere wanting is felt to be somehow a delight.” Joy thus “cuts across our ordinary distinctions between wanting and having. To have it is, by definition, a want: to want it, we find, is to have it”.\n\nSecond, Joy differs from all other desires in the mysteriousness or elusiveness of its object(s). With Joy, it is not clear exactly what is desired, and false leads are common. Many suppose, wrongly, that Joy is a desire for some particular worldly satisfaction (sex, aesthetic experience, etc.). But all such satisfactions, Lewis argues, turn out to be “false Florimels,” delusive images of wax that melt before one’s eyes and invariably fail to provide the satisfaction they appear to promise. It is this second unique feature of Joy—the fact that it is a strangely indefinite desire that apparently cannot be satisfied by any natural happiness attainable in this world—that provides the linchpin for Lewis’s argument from desire.\n\nAs John Beversluis argues, Lewis seems to offer both deductive and inductive versions of the argument from desire. In \"The Pilgrim’s Regress\", Lewis appears to argue deductively as follows:\n\n\nElsewhere, however, Lewis uses cautious terms such as “probable” that suggest that the argument should be understood inductively. He writes, for example:\n\n\"Creatures are not born with desires unless satisfaction for these desires exists. A baby feels hunger: well, there is such a thing as food. A duckling wants to swim: well, there is such a thing as water. Men feel sexual desire: well, there is such a thing as sex. If I find in myself a desire which no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that I was made for another world.\"\n\"[W]e remain conscious of a desire which no natural happiness will satisfy. But is there any reason to suppose that reality offers any satisfaction of it? . . . A man’s physical hunger does not prove that that man will get any bread; he may die on a raft in the Atlantic. But surely a man’s hunger does prove that he comes of a race which repairs its body by eating and inhabits a world where eatable substances exist. In the same way, though I do not believe . . . that my desire for Paradise proves that I shall enjoy it, I think it a pretty good indication that such a thing exists and that some men will.\"\n\nThe inductive version of Lewis’s argument from desire can be stated as follows:\n\n\nCritics of the Lewis’s argument from desire, such as John Beversluis and Gregory Bassham, claim that neither the deductive nor the inductive forms of the argument are successful. Among the questions critics raise are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21168059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21168059", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Slovakia", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Slovakia\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Slovakia dates from about 1916 with an appeal by `Abdu'l-Bahá that Bahá'ís should take the religion to the regions of Europe including Slovakia, then part of the empire of Austria–Hungary. It is unclear when the first Bahá'ís entered Slovakia, but there were Bahá'ís in what is now Czechoslovakia by 1910. As the communist period was ending, there is evidence of activity in Slovakia starting around 1989. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in late 1991, Bahá'í communities and their administrative bodies started to develop across the region formerly under the influence of the Soviet Union, including Czechoslovakia. In 1991 Slovakia's first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in Bratislava, which is also home to the Forel International School. Separate national assemblies for the Czech and Slovak Republics were formed in 1998. While registration with the national government of Slovakia is not required it is required for many religious activities as well as owning property. In 2007 representatives of the Bahá'í Faith submitted 28,000 signatures of supportive citizens to the government of Slovakia, gaining official recognition as a registered religious community. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 680 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nBefore 1918, the region of Slovakia was part of the empire of Austria–Hungary. `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916–1917 suggesting Bahá'ís take the religion to many lands, including these. These letters were compiled in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan, but its publication was delayed owing to World War I and the Spanish flu pandemic. They were translated and published in Star of the West magazine on 12 December 1919. One tablet says in part:\n\n\"In brief, this world–consuming war has set such a conflagration to the hearts that no word can describe it. In all the countries of the world the longing for universal peace is taking possession of the consciousness of men. There is not a soul who does not yearn for concord and peace. A most wonderful state of receptivity is being realized.… Therefore, O ye believers of God! Show ye an effort and after this war spread ye the synopsis of the divine teachings in the British Isles, France, Germany, Austria–Hungary, Russia, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Portugal, Rumania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino, Balearic Isles, Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, Malta, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Shetland Islands, Hebrides and Orkney Islands.\"\n\nIt is not clear when the first Bahá'ís entered Slovakia but there were Bahá'ís in Czechoslovakia by 1910. However in the Soviet sphere during the period of the Warsaw Pact the civil government adopted the Soviet policy of oppression of religion, so the Bahá'ís, strictly adhering to their principle of obedience to legal government, abandoned its administration and properties. There was a group of Bahá'ís in Prague for a period of time.\n\nAs the period of communist dominance in Eastern Europe was ending, there is evidence of organized activity in Slovakia dating from around 1989. Significant expansion and consolidation of Bahá'í communities was occurring by the time of the dissolution of the Soviet Union in late 1991, with Bahá'í administrative bodies elected throughout areas that had been cut off behind the Iron Curtain, including Czechoslovakia. 1991 saw the election of the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly, in Bratislava, and later in the same year of the National Spiritual Assembly of Czechoslovakia and the Local Assembly of Košice. Separate national assemblies for the Czech and Slovak Republics were formed in 1998.\n\nThere are established Bahá'í communities in and around Banská Bystrica, Bratislava, Košice, Trenčín, and Trnava.\n\nSince the inception of the Bahá'í Faith, its founder Bahá'u'lláh exhorted believers to involvement in Socioeconomic development, leading individuals to become active in various projects. Although there has been no long–term project organized by the Bahá'í Community of Slovakia, individuals from Slovakia have undertaken projects both here (in the form of non–governmental organizations and non–denominational private schools) and abroad (see for example mention of Earth Day 1995, when Slovakia joined the list of countries with soil deposited in the Peace Monument of the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro).\n\nProminent figures from Slovakia who are not themselves Bahá'ís have shown interest in Bahá'í projects and issues internationally, most recently on 13 December 2004 when the First Lady of the Slovak Republic, Silvia Gašparovičová, attended a prayer service at New Delhi's Lotus Temple, the Bahá'í House of Worship. In many years, the Slovak government has supported United Nations resolutions condemning the persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran.\n\nRegistration of religious groups is not required under Slovak law, only registered religious groups have the legal right to own property, build places of worship, officiate at marriages, and conduct public worship services and other activities. Those that register are eligible for financial support from the government, including subsidies for clergy and administrative expenses. The Bahá'ís of Slovakia were among a short list of recognized communities refusing to accept such financial support, as Bahá'í law prohibits financial contribution from outside the Bahá'í community. In early 2007, representatives of the Bahá'í Faith submitted to the government of Slovakia 28,000 signatures from citizens in support of their registration. This met the contemporary requirement for recognition as a registered religious community, which was soon granted by the Slovak government. At the time, there is mention of there being 200 members of the Slovak Bahá'í community. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 680 Bahá'ís in 2005. Shortly thereafter, the law was changed to require 20000 individuals to actually be members of the religion before it could be registered.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1082311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082311", "title": "Bishop of Portsmouth (Catholic)", "text": "Bishop of Portsmouth (Catholic)\n\nThe Bishop of Portsmouth is the Ordinary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Portsmouth in the Province of Southwark, England.\n\nThe bishop's official residence is Bishop's House, Bishop Crispian Way, Portsmouth, Hampshire.\n\nThe current Bishop is Philip Egan who was ordained Bishop at St John's Cathedral, Portsmouth, on 24 September 2012, the Feast of Our Lady of Walsingham. Bishop Egan was previously the Vicar General for the Diocese of Shrewsbury and his appointment was announced by the Holy See on 11 July 2012. The bishop emeritus is the Right Reverend Crispian Hollis, the 7th Bishop of Portsmouth, who was appointed on 6 December 1988. He reached retirement age (75) in November 2011, and retired as Bishop on 11 July 2012 upon his successor's appointment. Bishop Hollis acted as Apostolic Administrator of the Diocese of Portsmouth from 11 July 2012 until Bishop Egan's ordination on 24 September 2012.\n\nIn 1688 the Portsmouth area came under the authority of the Vicar Apostolic of the London District. On the restoration of the Catholic hierarchy in England and Wales in 1850 Portsmouth became part of the Diocese of Southwark. On 19 May 1882 the Roman Catholic Diocese of Portsmouth was created, and consists of the counties of Hampshire and Dorset, together with Berkshire and Oxfordshire south of the River Thames, plus the Isle of Wight and the Channel Islands.\n"}
{"id": "3532488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3532488", "title": "Bishopric of Edessa", "text": "Bishopric of Edessa\n\nThe following list is based on the records of the \"Chronicle of Edessa\" (to \"c\".540) and the \"Chronicle of Zuqnin\".\n\nThese bishops belonged to the Syriac Orthodox Church. During the later period there were also Byzantine rite bishops alongside them.\n\nThese bishops belonged to the Armenian church. They ruled alongside Jacobite, Byzantine and Latin bishops.\n\nIn the first half of the twelfth century, during the period of the Crusades and the county of Edessa, there was a Latin rite archdiocese based in the city. It seems to have displaced the Byzantine bishop, but ruled alongside the Jacobite and Armenian bishops. From the 13th century on, titular bishops were sometimes appointed.\n\n"}
{"id": "396631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396631", "title": "Brian Josephson", "text": "Brian Josephson\n\nBrian David Josephson (born 4 January 1940) is a Welsh theoretical physicist and professor emeritus of physics at the University of Cambridge. Best known for his pioneering work on superconductivity and quantum tunnelling, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1973 for his prediction of the Josephson effect, made in 1962 when he was a 22-year-old PhD student at Cambridge University. Josephson is the only Welshman to have won a Nobel Prize in Physics. He shared the prize with physicists Leo Esaki and Ivar Giaever, who jointly received half the award for their own work on quantum tunnelling.\n\nJosephson has spent his academic career as a member of the Theory of Condensed Matter group at Cambridge's Cavendish Laboratory. He has been a fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge since 1962, and served as professor of physics from 1974 until 2007.\n\nIn the early 1970s Josephson took up transcendental meditation and turned his attention to issues outside the boundaries of mainstream science. He set up the Mind–Matter Unification Project at the Cavendish to explore the idea of intelligence in nature, the relationship between quantum mechanics and consciousness, and the synthesis of science and Eastern mysticism, broadly known as quantum mysticism. Those interests have led him to express support for topics such as parapsychology, water memory and cold fusion, and have made him a focus of criticism from fellow scientists.\n\nJosephson was born in Cardiff, Wales, to Jewish parents, Mimi (née Weisbard, 1911–1998) and Abraham Josephson. He attended Cardiff High School, where he credits some of the school masters for having helped him, particularly the physics master, Emrys Jones, who introduced him to theoretical physics. In 1957 he went up to Cambridge, where he initially read mathematics at Trinity College, Cambridge. After completing Maths Part II in two years, and finding it somewhat sterile, he decided to switch to physics.<ref name=\"Waldram2012/01:19mins\">John Waldram, \"John Waldram: Reminiscences\", Lectures from the Cavendish Laboratory's bdj50 conference, University of Cambridge, 18 July 2012, 01:19 mins.</ref>\n\nJosephson was known at Cambridge as a brilliant, but shy, student. Physicist John Waldram recalled overhearing Nicholas Kurti, an examiner from Oxford, discuss Josephson's exam results with David Shoenberg, reader in physics at Cambridge, and asking: \"Who is this chap Josephson? He seems to be going through the theory like a knife through butter.\" While still an undergraduate, he published a paper on the Mössbauer effect, pointing out a crucial issue other researchers had overlooked. According to one eminent physicist speaking to \"Physics World\", Josephson wrote several papers important enough to assure him a place in the history of physics even without his discovery of the Josephson effect.\n\nHe graduated in 1960 and became a research student in the university's Mond Laboratory on the old Cavendish site, where he was supervised by Brian Pippard. American physicist Philip Anderson, also a future Nobel Prize laureate, spent a year in Cambridge in 1961–1962, and recalled that having Josephson in a class was \"a disconcerting experience for a lecturer, I can assure you, because everything had to be right or he would come up and explain it to me after class.\" It was during this period, as a PhD student in 1962, that he carried out the research that led to his discovery of the Josephson effect; Cambridge unveiled a plaque on the Mond Building dedicated to the discovery in November 2012. He was elected a fellow of Trinity College in 1962, and obtained his PhD in 1964 for a thesis entitled \"Non-linear conduction in superconductors\".\n\nJosephson was 22 years old when he did the work on quantum tunnelling that won him the Nobel Prize. He discovered that a supercurrent could tunnel through a thin barrier, predicting, according to physicist Andrew Whitaker, that \"at a junction of two superconductors, a current will flow even if there is no drop in voltage; that when there is a voltage drop, the current should oscillate at a frequency related to the drop in voltage; and that there is a dependence on any magnetic field.\" This became known as the Josephson effect and the junction as a Josephson junction.\n\nHis calculations were published in \"Physics Letters\" (chosen by Pippard because it was a new journal) in a paper entitled \"Possible new effects in superconductive tunnelling,\" received on 8 June 1962 and published on 1 July. They were confirmed experimentally by Philip Anderson and John Rowell of Bell Labs in Princeton; this appeared in their paper, \"Probable Observation of the Josephson Superconducting Tunneling Effect,\" submitted to \"Physical Review Letters\" in January 1963.\n\nBefore Anderson and Rowell confirmed the calculations, the American physicist John Bardeen, who had shared the 1956 Nobel Prize in Physics (and who shared it again in 1972), objected to Josephson's work. He submitted an article to \"Physical Review Letters\" on 25 July 1962, arguing that \"there can be no such superfluid flow.\" The disagreement led to a famous confrontation in September that year at Queen Mary College, London, at the Eighth International Conference on Low Temperature Physics. When Bardeen (then one of the most eminent physicists in the world) began speaking, Josephson (still a student) stood up and interrupted him. The men exchanged views, reportedly in a civil and soft-spoken manner.\n\nWhitaker writes that the discovery of the Josephson effect led to \"much important physics,\" including the invention of SQUIDs (superconducting quantum interference devices), which are used in geology to make highly sensitive measurements, as well as in medicine and computing. IBM used Josephson's work in 1980 to build a prototype of a computer that would be up to 100 times faster than the IBM 3033 mainframe.\n\nJosephson was awarded several important prizes for his discovery, including the 1969 Research Corporation Award for outstanding contributions to science, and the Hughes Medal and Holweck Prize in 1972. In 1973 he won the Nobel Prize in Physics, sharing the $122,000 award with two other scientists who had also worked on quantum tunnelling. Josephson was awarded half the prize \"for his theoretical predictions of the properties of a supercurrent through a tunnel barrier, in particular those phenomena which are generally known as the Josephson effects.\"\n\nThe other half of the award was shared equally by Japanese physicist Leo Esaki of the Thomas Watson Research Center in Yorktown, New York, and Norwegian-American physicist Ivar Giaever of General Electric in Schenectady, New York, \"for their experimental discoveries regarding tunneling phenomena in semiconductors and superconductors, respectively.\" Unusually, none of the winners had held professorships before being awarded the prize.\n\nJosephson spent a postdoctoral year in the United States (1965–1966) as research assistant professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. After returning to Cambridge, he was made assistant director of research at the Cavendish Laboratory in 1967, where he remained a member of the Theory of Condensed Matter group, a theoretical physics group, for the rest of his career. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1970, and the same year was awarded a National Science Foundation fellowship by Cornell University, where he spent one year. In 1972 he became a reader in physics at Cambridge and in 1974 a full professor, a position he held until he retired in 2007.\n\nA practitioner of transcendental meditation (TM) since the early seventies, Josephson became a visiting faculty member in 1975 of the Maharishi European Research University in the Netherlands, part of the TM movement. He also held visiting professorships at Wayne State University in 1983, the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore in 1984, and the University of Missouri-Rolla in 1987.\n\nJosephson became interested in philosophy of mind in the late sixties and, in particular, in the mind–body problem, and is one of the few scientists to argue that parapsychological phenomena (telepathy, psychokinesis and other paranormal themes) may be real. In 1971 he began practising transcendental meditation (TM), which had become popular with several celebrities, most famously the Beatles.\n\nWinning the Nobel Prize in 1973 gave him the freedom to work in less orthodox areas, and he became increasingly involved – including during science conferences, to the irritation of fellow scientists – in talking about meditation, telepathy and higher states of consciousness. In 1974 he angered scientists during a colloquium of molecular and cellular biologists in Versailles by inviting them to read the \"Bhagavad Gita\" (5th – 2nd century BCE) and the work of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, the founder of the TM movement, and by arguing about special states of consciousness achieved through meditation. \"Nothing forces us,\" one scientist shouted at him, \"to listen to your wild speculations.\" Biophysicist Henri Atlan wrote that the session ended in uproar.\n\nIn May that year Josephson addressed a symposium held to welcome the Maharishi to Cambridge. The following month, at the first Canadian conference on psychokinesis, he was one of 21 scientists who tested claims by Matthew Manning, a Cambridgeshire teenager who said he had psychokinetic abilities; Josephson apparently told a reporter that he believed Manning's powers were a new kind of energy. He later withdrew or corrected the statement.\n\nJosephson said that Trinity College's long interest in the paranormal meant that he did not dismiss these ideas out of hand. Several presidents of the Society for Psychical Research had been fellows of Trinity, and the Perrott-Warrick Fund, set up in Trinity in 1937 to fund parapsychology research, is still administered by the college. He continued to explore the idea that there is intelligence in nature, particularly after reading Fritjof Capra's \"The Tao of Physics\" (1975), and in 1979 took up a more advanced form of TM, known as the TM-Sidhi program. According to Anderson, the TM movement produced a poster showing Josephson levitating several inches above the floor. Josephson argued that meditation could lead to mystical and scientific insights, and that, as a result of it, he had come to believe in a creator.\n\nJosephson became involved in the mid-seventies with a group of physicists associated with the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, who were investigating paranormal claims. They had organized themselves loosely into something called the Fundamental Fysiks Group, and had effectively become the Stanford Research Institute's (SRI) \"house theorists,\" according to historian of science David Kaiser.\n\nThere was a lot of popular and government interest at the time in quantum mechanics – the American government was financing research at SRI into telepathy – and physicists able to understand it found themselves in demand. The Fundamental Fysiks Group used ideas from quantum physics, particularly Bell's theorem and quantum entanglement, to explore issues such as action at a distance, clairvoyance, precognition, remote viewing and psychokinesis.\n\nIn 1976 Josephson travelled to California to meet two leading members of the group, laser physicists Russell Targ and Harold Puthoff, authors of \"Mind Reach\" (1977). Targ and Puthoff had set up a parapsychology (\"psi\") lab at SRI and had had papers published about their work – which included testing later-discredited claims by Uri Geller that he could make objects move using psychokinesis – in \"Nature\" and other peer-reviewed journals. The \"San Francisco Chronicle\" covered Josephson's visit.\n\nJosephson co-organized a symposium on consciousness at Cambridge in 1978, publishing the proceedings as \"Consciousness and the Physical World\" (1980), with neuroscientist V. S. Ramachandran. A conference on \"Science and Consciousness\" followed a year later in Cordoba, Spain, attended by physicists and Jungian psychoanalysts, and addressed by Josephson, Fritjof Capra and David Bohm (1917–1992).\n\nBy 1996 he had set up the Mind–Matter Unification Project at the Cavendish Laboratory to explore intelligent processes in nature. In 2002 he told \"Physics World\": \"Future science will consider quantum mechanics as the phenomenology of particular kinds of organised complex system. Quantum entanglement would be one manifestation of such organisation, paranormal phenomena another.\"\n\nJosephson delivered the Pollock Memorial Lecture in 2006, the Hermann Staudinger Lecture in 2009 and the Sir Nevill Mott Lecture in 2010.\n\nMatthew Reisz wrote in \"Times Higher Education\" in 2010 that Josephson has long been one of physics' \"more colourful figures.\" His support for unorthodox causes has attracted criticism from fellow scientists since the 1970s, including from Philip Anderson. Josephson regards the criticism as prejudice, and believes that it has served to deprive him of an academic support network.\n\nHe has repeatedly criticized \"science by consensus,\" arguing that the scientific community is too quick to reject certain kinds of ideas. \"Anything goes among the physics community – cosmic wormholes, time travel,\" he argues, \"just so long as it keeps its distance from anything mystical or New Age-ish.\" Referring to this position as \"pathological disbelief,\" he holds it responsible for the rejection by academic journals of papers on the paranormal. He has compared parapsychology to the theory of continental drift, proposed in 1912 by Alfred Wegener (1880–1930) to explain observations that were otherwise inexplicable, which was resisted and ridiculed until evidence led to its acceptance after Wegener's death.\n\nScience writer Martin Gardner criticized Josephson in 1980 for complaining to the \"New York Review of Books\", along with three other physicists, about an article by J. A. Wheeler that ridiculed parapsychology. Several physicists complained in 2001 when, in a Royal Mail booklet celebrating the Nobel Prize's centenary, Josephson wrote that Britain was at the forefront of research into telepathy. Physicist David Deutsch said the Royal Mail had \"let itself be hoodwinked\" into supporting nonsense, although another physicist, Robert Matthews, suggested that Deutsch was skating on thin ice given the latter's own work on parallel universes and time travel.\n\nIn 2004 Josephson criticized an experiment by the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry to test claims by Russian schoolgirl Natasha Demkina that she could see inside people's bodies using a special kind of vision. The experiment involved her being asked to match six people to their confirmed medical conditions (plus one with none); to pass the test she had to make five correct matches, but made only four. Josephson argued that this was statistically significant, and that the experiment had set her up to fail. One of the researchers, Richard Wiseman, professor of psychology at the University of Hertfordshire, responded that Josephson had no record of publishing on parapsychology. Keith Rennolis, professor of applied statistics at the University of Greenwich, supported Josephson's position, asserting that the experiment was \"woefully inadequate\" to determine any effect.\n\nJosephson's reputation for promoting unorthodox causes was cemented by his support for the ideas of water memory and cold fusion, both of which are rejected by mainstream scientists. Water memory is purported to provide an explanation for homeopathy; it is mostly dismissed by scientists as pseudoscience, although Josephson has expressed support for it since attending a conference at which French immunologist Jacques Benveniste first proposed it. Cold fusion is the hypothesis that nuclear reactions can occur at room temperature. When Martin Fleischmann, the British chemist who pioneered research into it, died in 2012, Josephson wrote a supportive obituary in the \"Guardian\" and complained to \"Nature\" that its obituary had failed to give Fleischmann due credit. Antony Valentini of Imperial College London withdrew Josephson's invitation to a 2010 conference on the de Broglie-Bohm theory because of his work on the paranormal, although it was reinstated after complaints.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29423172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29423172", "title": "Brown Lady of Raynham Hall", "text": "Brown Lady of Raynham Hall\n\nThe Brown Lady of Raynham Hall is a ghost that reportedly haunts Raynham Hall in Norfolk, England. \nIt became one of the most famous hauntings in Great Britain when photographers from \"Country Life\" magazine claimed to have captured its image. The \"Brown Lady\" is so named because of the brown brocade dress it is claimed she wears.\n\nAccording to legend, the \"Brown Lady of Raynham Hall\" is the ghost of Lady Dorothy Walpole (1686–1726), the sister of Robert Walpole, generally regarded as the first Prime Minister of Great Britain. She was the second wife of Charles Townshend, who was notorious for his violent temper. The story says that when Townshend discovered that his wife had committed adultery with Lord Wharton he punished her by locking her in her rooms in the family home, Raynham Hall. According to Mary Wortley Montagu, Dorothy was in fact entrapped by the Countess of Wharton. She invited Dorothy over to stay for a few days knowing that her husband would never allow her to leave, not even to see her children. She remained at Raynham Hall until her death in 1726 from smallpox.\n\nThe first recorded claim of a sighting of the ghost was by Lucia C. Stone concerning a gathering at Raynham Hall in the Christmas of 1835. Stone says that Lord Charles Townshend had invited various guests to the Hall, including a Colonel Loftus, to join in the Christmas festivities. Loftus and another guest named Hawkins said they had seen the \"Brown Lady\" one night as they approached their bedrooms, noting in particular the dated brown dress she wore. The following evening Loftus claimed to have seen the \"Brown Lady\" again, later reporting that on this occasion he was drawn to the spectre's empty eye-sockets, dark in the glowing face. Loftus' sightings led to some staff permanently leaving Raynham Hall.\nThe next reported sighting of the \"Brown Lady\" was made in 1836 by Captain Frederick Marryat, a friend of novelist Charles Dickens, and the author of a series of popular sea novels. It is said that Marryat requested that he spend the night in the haunted room at Raynham Hall to prove his theory that the haunting was caused by local smugglers anxious to keep people away from the area. Writing in 1891, Florence Marryat said of her father's experience:\n\nLady Townshend reported that the \"Brown Lady\" was next seen in 1926, when her son and his friend claimed to have seen the ghost on the staircase, identifying the ghostly figure with the portrait of Lady Dorothy Walpole which then hung in the haunted room.\n\nOn September 19, 1936 Captain Hubert C. Provand, a London-based photographer working for \"Country Life\" magazine, and his assistant, Indre Shira, were taking photographs of Raynham Hall for an article. They claim that they had already taken a photograph of the Hall's main staircase and were setting up to take a second when Shira saw \"a vapoury form gradually assuming the appearance of a woman\" moving down the stairs towards them. Under Shira's direction Provand quickly took the cap off the lens while Shira pressed the trigger to activate the camera's flash. Later, when the negative was developed, the famous image of the \"Brown Lady\" was revealed. The account of Provand and Shira's ghostly experience at Raynham Hall was published in \"Country Life\" magazine on December 26, 1936 along with the photograph of the Brown Lady. The photograph and the account of its taking also appeared in the January 4, 1937 edition of \"Life\" magazine.\nShortly thereafter, the noted paranormal investigator Harry Price interviewed Provand and Shira and reported, \"I will say at once I was impressed. I was told a perfectly simple story: Mr. Indre Shira saw the apparition descending the stairs at the precise moment when Captain Provand’s head was under the black cloth. A shout – and the cap was off and the flashbulb fired, with the results which we now see. I could not shake their story, and I had no right to disbelieve them. Only collusion between the two men would account for the ghost if it is a fake. The negative is entirely innocent of any faking.\"\n\nSome critics have claimed that Shira faked the image by putting grease or a similar substance on the lens in the shape of a figure, or moved down the stairs himself during an exposure. Others claim that the image is an accidental double exposure or that light somehow got into the camera.\n\nJoe Nickell has written that a detailed examination of the photograph shows evidence of double exposure. John Fairley and Simon Welfare wrote \"there is a pale line above each stair-tread, indicating that one picture has been superimposed over the other; a patch of reflected light at the top of the right-hand banister appears twice.\"\n\nThe magician John Booth wrote the photograph could easily be duplicated by naturalistic methods. Booth had the magician Ron Wilson cover himself in a bed sheet and descend the grand staircase at The Magic Castle in Hollywood. The faked ghost image looked very similar to the Raynham Hall photograph.\n\nOther critics point out that the image of the lady very closely resembles that of a standard Virgin Mary statue as would be found in any Catholic church, the light patch covering the bottom one third of the image, resembling an inverted \"V\" shape, being very indicative, as the outer garment above it drapes down on either side at an angle. Also the head is covered and the hands appear to be together as in prayer, and the square or rectangular pedestal on which she stands is also clearly visible. This strongly suggests that the photo is a simple superimposition of the Madonna statue onto the empty staircase.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "153025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153025", "title": "Chams", "text": "Chams\n\nThe Chams, or Cham people (Cham: \"Urang Campa\", , ), are an ethnic group of Austronesian origin in Southeast Asia. Their contemporary population, a diaspora, is concentrated between the Kampong Cham Province in Cambodia and Phan Rang–Tháp Chàm, Phan Thiết, Ho Chi Minh City and An Giang Province in Southern Vietnam. An additional 4,000 Chams live in Bangkok, Thailand, who had migrated during Rama I's reign. Recent immigrants are mainly students and workers, who preferably seek work and education in the southern Islamic Pattani, Narathiwat, Yala, and Songkhla provinces. A large Cham diaspora also established in Malaysia following the turbulence during the Pol Pot regime, where they were quickly assimilated with the local Malay population. Cham people represent the core of the Muslim communities in both Cambodia and Vietnam.\n\nFrom the 2nd to the mid-15th century the Chams populated Champa, a contiguous territory of independent principalities in central and southern Vietnam. They spoke the Cham language, a Malayo-Polynesian language of the Austronesian language family. Chams and Malays are the only sizable Austronesian peoples that had settled in Iron Age Mainland Southeast Asia among the more ancient Austroasiatic inhabitants.\n\nAustronesian origin, patterns and chronology of migration remain debated and it is assumed, that the Cham people arrived in peninsular Southeast Asia via Borneo. As mainland Southeast Asia had been populated on land routes by members of the Austroasiatic language family, such as the Mon people and the Khmer people around 5,000 years ago, the Chams were accomplished seafarers belonging to the Austronesian marine migrants, that from 4,000 years BP populated and soon dominated maritime Southeast Asia. Earliest known records of Cham presence in Indochina date back to the second century CE. Maritime trade was the essence of a prosperous economy as population centers around the river outlets along the coast controlled the import/export of continental Southeast Asia. Acquisition of territory has not been the subject of concern. The size of Champa was during its heyday in the 9th and 10th century not substantially larger than during the formative period.\n\nCham folklore includes the creation of a myth in which the founder of the first Cham polity was a certain Lady Po Nagar. Coming from humble peasant origin somewhere in the Dai An Mountains, Khánh Hòa Province, spirits assisted her as she traveled to China on a floating log of sandalwood where she married a man of royalty with whom she had two children. She eventually returned to Champa \"did many good deeds in helping the sick and the poor\" and \"a temple was erected in her honor\" as people venerate her as their patroness.\n\nThe Champa principalities underwent like countless other political entities of Southeast Asia the process of Indianisation, who since the early common era as a result of centuries of socio-economic interaction adopted and introduced cultural and institutional elements of pre-Islamic India. From the 8th century onward trade and shipping of India came to be increasingly controlled by Muslims from such regions as Gujarat. Islamic ideas became a part of the vast tide of exchange, treading the same path as Hinduism and Buddhism centuries before. Cham people picked up these ideas by the 11th century. This can be seen in the architecture of Cham temples, which shares similarities with the one of the Angkor Temples. Ad-Dimashqi writes in 1325, \"the country of Champa... is inhabited by Muslims and idolaters. The Muslim religion came there during the time of Caliph Uthman... and Ali, many Muslims who were expelled by the Umayyads and by Hajjaj, fled there\".\n\nThe \"Daoyi Zhilüe\" records that at Cham ports, Cham women were often married to Chinese merchants, who frequently came back to them after trading voyages. A Chinese merchant from Quanzhou, Wang Yuanmao, traded extensively with Champa and married a Cham princess.\n\nIn the 12th century, the Cham fought a series of wars with the Khmer Empire to the west. In 1177, the Cham and their allies launched an attack from the lake Tonlé Sap and managed to sack the Khmer capital. In 1181, however, they were defeated by the Khmer King Jayavarman VII.\n\nBetween the rise of the Khmer Empire around 800 and the Vietnamese people's territorial push south from Jiaozhi and, later, Đại Việt, Champa began to shrink. At a disadvantage against Vietnam's army of 300,000 troops, the Chams 100,000 were no match. In the Cham–Vietnamese War (1471), Champa suffered serious defeats at the hands of the Vietnamese, in which 120,000 people were either captured or killed, and the kingdom was reduced to a small enclave near Nha Trang with many Chams fleeing to Cambodia. Champa was no longer a threat to Vietnam, and some were even enslaved by their victors. \n\nA number of Cham also fled across the sea to Malay Peninsula and as early as the 15th century, a Cham colony was established in Malacca. The Chams encountered Sunni Islam there as the Malacca Sultanate was officially Muslim since 1414. The King of Champa then became an ally of the Johor Sultanate; in 1594, Champa sent its military forces to fight alongside Johor against the Portuguese occupation of Malacca. Between 1607 and 1676, one of the Champa kings converted to Islam and it became a dominant feature of Cham society. The Chams also adopted the Jawi alphabet.\n\nHistorical records in Indonesia showed the influence of Queen Dwarawati, a Muslim Princess from the Kingdom of Champa (Chams), toward her husband, Kertawijaya, the Seventh King of Majapahit Empire, so that the royal family of the Majapahit Empire eventually converted to Islam, which finally lead to the conversion to Islam of the entire region. Chams Princess tomb can be found in Trowulan, the site of the capital of the Majapahit Empire. In Babad Tanah Jawi, it is said that the king of Brawijaya V has a wife named Dewi Anarawati (or Dewi Dwarawati), a Muslim daughter of the King of Champa (Chams). Chams had trade and close cultural ties with the maritime kingdom of Srivijaya, and Majapahit then in the Malay Archipelago.\n\nAnother significant figure from Champa in the history of Islam in Indonesia is Raden Rakhmat (Prince Rahmat) who's also known as Sunan Ampel, one of Wali Sanga (Nine Saints), who spread Islam in Java. He is considered as a focal point of the Wali Sanga, because several of them were actually his descendants and/or his students. His father is Maulana Malik Ibrahim also known as Ibrahim as-Samarkandy (\"Ibrahim Asmarakandi\" to Javanese ears), and his mother is Dewi Candrawulan, a princess of Champa (Chams) who's also the sister of Queen Dwarawati. Sunan Ampel was born in Champa in 1401 CE. He came to Java in 1443 CE, in order to visit his aunt Queen Dwarawati, a princess of Champa who married to Kertawijaya (Brawijaya V), the King of Majapahit Empire. Local legend says that he built the Great Mosque of Demak (Masjid Agung Demak) in 1479 CE, but other legends attribute that work to Sunan Kalijaga. Sunan Ampel died in Demak in 1481 CE, but is buried in Ampel Mosque at Surabaya, East Java.\n\nThe Cham were matrilineal and inheritance passed through the mother. Because of this, in 1499 the Vietnamese enacted a law banning marriage between Cham women and Vietnamese men, regardless of class. The Vietnamese also issued instructions in the capital to kill all Chams within the vicinity. More attacks by the Vietnamese continued and in 1693 the Champa Kingdom's territory was integrated as part of Vietnamese territory.\n\nWhen the Ming dynasty in China fell, several thousand Chinese refugees fled south and extensively settled on Cham lands and in Cambodia. Most of these Chinese were young males, and they took Cham women as wives. Their children identified more with Chinese culture. This migration occurred in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, a sizeable number of Chams migrated to Peninsular Malaysia, where they were granted sanctuary by the Malaysian government out of sympathy for fellow Muslim brothers; most of them have now assimilated with Malay cultures.\n\nChams participated in defeating the Spanish invasion of Cambodia.\n\nCambodian king Cau Bana Cand Ramadhipati launched the Cambodian–Dutch War to expel the Dutch. The Vietnamese Nguyen Lords toppled Ibrahim from power to restore Buddhist rule.\n\nAfter Vietnam invaded and conquered Champa, Cambodia granted refuge to Cham Muslims escaping from Vietnamese conquest.\n\nCham who migrated to Sulu were Orang Dampuan. Champa and Sulu engaged in commerce with each other which resulted in merchant Chams settling in Sulu where they were known as Orang Dampuan from the 10th-13th centuries. The Orang Dampuan were slaughtered by envious native Sulu Buranuns due to the wealth of the Orang Dampuan. The Buranun were then subjected to retaliatory slaughter by the Orang Dampuan. Harmonious commerce between Sulu and the Orang Dampuan was later restored. The Yakans were descendants of the Taguima-based Orang Dampuan who came to Sulu from Champa. Sulu received civilization in its Indic form from the Orang Dampuan.\n\nThe trade in Vietnamese ceramics was damaged due to the plummet in trade by Cham merchants after the 1471 Vietnamese invasion of Champa. Vietnam's export of ceramics was also damaged by its internal civil war, the Portuguese and Spanish entry into the region and the Portuguese conquest of Malacca which caused an upset in the trading system, while the carracks ships in the Malacca to Macao trade run by the Portuguese docked at Brunei due to good relations between the Portuguese and Brunei after the Chinese permitted Macao to be leased to the Portuguese.\n\nIn the 1700s and 1800s Cambodian based Chams settled in Bangkok.\n\nFurther expansion by the Vietnamese in 1720 resulted in the total annexation of the Champa kingdom and dissolution by the 19th century Vietnamese Emperor, Minh Mạng. In response, the last Champa Muslim king, Pô Chien, gathered his people in the hinterland and fled south to Cambodia, while those along the coast migrated to Trengganu (Malaysia). A small group fled northward to the Chinese island of Hainan where they are known today as the Utsuls. Their refuge in Cambodia where the king and his people settled and were scattered in communities across the Mekong Basin. Those who remained in the Nha Trang, Phan Rang, Phan Rí, and Phan Thiết provinces of central Vietnam were absorbed into the Vietnamese polity. Cham provinces were seized by the Nguyen Lords.\n\nIn 1832 the Vietnamese Emperor Minh Mang annexed the last Champa Kingdom. This resulted in the Cham Muslim leader Katip Suma, who was educated in Kelantan, declaring a Jihad against the Vietnamese. The Vietnamese coercively fed lizard and pig meat to Cham Muslims and cow meat to Cham Hindus against their will to punish them and assimilate them to Vietnamese culture.\n\nIn the 1960s various movements emerged calling for the creation of a separate Cham state in Vietnam. The Liberation Front of Champa (FLC – Le Front pour la Libération de Cham) and the Front de Libération des Hauts plateaux dominated. The latter group sought greater alliance with other hilltribe minorities.\n\nInitially known as \"Front des Petits Peuples\" from 1946 to 1960, the group later took the designation \"Front de Libération des Hauts plateaux\" and joined, with the FLC, the \"Front unifié pour la Libération des Races opprimées\" (FULRO) at some point in the 1960s. Since the late 1970s, there is no serious Cham secessionist movement or political activity in Vietnam or Cambodia.\n\nThe Cham community suffered a major blow during the Khmer Rouge rule of Cambodia. The Khmer Rouge targeted ethnic minorities like Chinese, Thai, Lao, Vietnamese and Cham people, with the Chinese suffering the biggest death toll (over 200,000) among the ethnic minorities, followed by the Cham, and then the Thai, though the Cham suffered the largest death toll in proportion to their population. Around 100,000 Cham out of a total Cham population of 250,000 died in the genocide.\n\nThe majority of Cham in Vietnam (also known as the Eastern Cham) are Hindu while their Cambodian counterparts are largely Muslim. A small number of the Eastern Cham also follow Islam and to a lesser degree Mahayana Buddhism. A number emigrated to France in the late 1960s during the Vietnam War.\n\nThe majority (88%) of Chams who reside in Cambodia are Muslim, as are the Utsul of Hainan. The isolation of Cham Muslims in central Vietnam resulted in an increased syncretism with Buddhism until recent restoration of contacts with other global Muslim communities in Vietnamese cities.\n\nMalaysia has some Cham immigrants and the link between the Chams and the Malaysian state of Kelantan is an old one. The Malaysian constitution recognises the Cham rights to Malaysian citizenship and their Bumiputra status, and the Cham communities in Malaysia and along the Mekong River in Vietnam continue to have strong interactions.\n\nAround 98,971 Cham are estimated to live in Vietnam.\n\nThe Muslim Acehnese people of Aceh, Sumatra, Indonesia, are the descendants of Cham refugees who fled after defeat by the Vietnamese polity in the 15th century.\n\nAccording to a National Geographic article published by journalist Adam Bray, Vietnamese government fears that evidence of Champa's influence over the disputed area in the South China Sea would bring attention to human rights violations and killings of ethnic minorities in Vietnam such as in the 2001 and 2004 uprisings, and lead to the issue of Cham autonomy being brought into the dispute, since the Vietnamese conquered Cham people in a war in 1832, and the Vietnamese continue to destroy evidence of Cham culture and artefacts left behind, plundering or building on top of Cham temples, building farms over them, banning Cham religious practices, and omitting references to the destroyed Cham capital of Song Luy in the 1832 invasion in history books and tourist guides. The situation of Cham compared to ethnic Vietnamese is substandard, lacking water and electricity and living in houses made out of mud. The Cham activist organisation \"International Office of Champa\" republished Bray's article on their website Cham Today.\n\nThe Cham in Vietnam are officially recognised by the Vietnamese government as one of 54 ethnic groups. However, according to the Cham adovcacy group International Office of Champa (IOC-Champa) and Cham Muslim activist Khaleelah Porome, both Hindu and Muslim Chams have experienced religious and ethnic persecution and restrictions on their faith under the current Vietnamese government, with the Vietnamese state confisticating Cham property and forbidding Cham from observing their religious beliefs. Hindu temples were turned into tourist sites against the wishes of the Cham Hindus. In 2010 and 2013 several incidents occurred in Thành Tín and Phươc Nhơn villages where Cham were murdered by Vietnamese. In 2012, Vietnamese police in Chau Giang village stormed into a Cham Mosque, stole the electric generator. Cham Muslims in the Mekong Delta have also been economically marginalised, with ethnic Vietnamese settling on land previously owned by Cham people with state support.\n\nA Cambodian Cham Muslim dissident, Hassan A Kasem, a former military helicopter pilot who was both persecuted and imprisoned by the Khmer Rouge and fought against Vietnamese invasion, denounced Vietnam as trying to position itself as the saviour of Cambodia from Khmer Rouge rule and wrote that Vietnam has deceived the west into thinking of it as a \"magnanimous liberator\" when it invaded Cambodia and ousted the Khmer Rouge when in fact Vietnam used the war to benefit its own interests such subjecting Cambodian financial assets and national treasures to pillaging and theft, settling border disputes to its own advantage, trying to destroy Cambodian nationalist feeling against Vietnam, benefiting from the mostly Khmer on Khmer violence by the Khmer Rouge and setting up its own Communist puppet government to rule Cambodia, the Cambodia People's Party (CPP) with Vietnamese soldiers secretly remaining behind in Cambodia to prop up the puppet government and Vietnamese officials pretending to be Khmer continuing to direct the government as their puppet. The Cham activist organisation \"International Office of Champa\" republished Hassan's article on their website Cham Today.\n\nThe Cham Suleiman Idres Bin called for independence of Champa from Vietnam and advocated for international intervention similar as to how East Timor independence was implemented by the United Nations.\n\nThe Cham Muslim human rights activist Musa Porome and his daughter Khaleelah Porome live in America and advocate for Cham rights against the Vietnamese government.\n\nAn attempt at Salafist expansion among the Cham in Vietnam has been halted by Vietnamese government controls, however, the loss of the Salafis among Chams has been to be benefit of Tablighi Jamaat.\n\nThe Cham shielded and always observed their girls attentively, placing great importance on their virginity. A Cham saying said \"As well leave a man alone with a girl, as an elephant in a field of sugarcane.\"\n\nThe Cham Muslims view the karoeh (also spelled Karoh) ceremony for girls as very significant. This symbolic ceremony marks the passage of a girl from infancy to puberty (the marriageable age), and usually takes place when the girl is aged fifteen and has completed her development. If it has not taken place, the girl cannot marry since she is \"tabung\". After the ceremony is done the girl can marry. Circumcision to the Cham was less significant than karoeh.. It is not practiced, only symbolic and performed with a toy wooden knife.\n\nThe Cham culture is diverse and rich because of the combination of indigenous cultural elements (plains culture, maritime culture, and mountain culture) and foreign cultural features (Indian cultures and religions such as Buddhism; early Han Chinese influences; Islam) (Phan Xuan Bien et al. 1991:376). The blend of indigenous and foreign elements in Cham culture is a result of ecological, social, and historical conditions. The influences of various Indian cultures produced similarities among many groups in Southeast Asia such as the Cham, who traded or communicated with polities on the Indian subcontinent. However, the indigenous elements also allow for cultural distinctions. As an example, Brahmanism became the Ahier religion, while other aspects of influence were changed, to adapt to local Ahier characteristics and environment. The blending of various cultures has produced its own unique form through the prolific production of sculptures and architecture only seen at the Champa temple tower sites. The Champa temples provide a wealth of information about Cham history, art, and construction techniques, through analysis and interpretation of architecture, styles, and inscriptions.\n\n \"Relations between the Hanoi government and ethnic minorities are sensitive. In 2001 and 2004 massive human rights protests by hill tribes resulted in deaths and mass imprisonments. For some time after that, the Central Highlands were sealed off to foreigners.\"\n\nIn the legend (tambo) of Minangkabau people (West Sumatra), there is a figure of a warrior who holds the title of Harimau Campo or \"Tiger of Champa\", in addition to other names. Harimau Campo along with Datuak Suri Dirajo (Padang Panjang), Kambiang Utan (Cambodia), Kuciang Siam (Siam or Thailand), and Anjiang Mualim (Gujarat) formulate the concept of Minangkabau Martial Art called Silek or Silat (Pencak Silat Minangkabau). Kambiang Utan, Kuciang Siam, and Anjiang Mualim are equally in status with Harimau Campo, they are immigrants from foreign lands to the Minangkabau region in former times. Until the present time, the name of Harimau Campo still touted in the sasaran silek (padepokan silat / silat training grounds) at Minangkabau as one of the bases of their martial arts movements, including In the famous Indonesian Action Movie: Merantau, , and The Raid 2.\n\nThe first recorded religion of the Champa was a form of Shaiva Hinduism, brought by sea from India. Hinduism was the predominant religion among the Cham people until sixteenth century. Numerous temples dedicated to Shiva were constructed in the central part of what is now Vietnam. The jewel of such temple is Mỹ Sơn. It is often compared with other historical temple complexes in Southeast Asia, such as Borobudur of Java in Indonesia, Angkor Wat of Cambodia, Bagan of Myanmar and Ayutthaya of Thailand. As of 1999, Mỹ Sơn has been recognised by UNESCO as a world heritage site.\n\nAs Muslim merchants of Arab and of Persian origin stopped along the Vietnam coast en route to China, Islam began to influence the civilisation. The exact date that Islam came to Champa is unknown; however, grave markers have been found that date it to the 11th century. It is generally assumed that Islam came to mainland Southeast Asia much later than its arrival in China during the Tang dynasty (618–907) and that Arab traders in the region came into direct contact only with the Cham and not others.\n\nA syncretic form of Islam that blends indigenous practices of matriarchy, ancestor veneration and Hinduism is practised by the Cham Bani, who predominantly live in Vietnam's Bình Thuận and Ninh Thuận Provinces. The Cham Bani worship in \"thang magik\", the main communal setting for rituals. They also celebrate the month of Ramuwan (Ramadan), during which ancestors are called to return home for veneration, and the \"acar\" (priests) stay at the thang magik for one month and adhere to a vegetarian diet.\n\nHowever, a small band of Chams, who called themselves Kaum Jumaat, follow a localised adaptation of Islamic theology, according to which they pray only on Fridays and celebrate Ramadan for only three days. However, some members of this group have joined the larger Muslim Cham community in their practices of Islam in recent years. One of the factors for this change is the influence by members of their family who have gone abroad to study Islam.\n\nThe approximately 60,000 Cham Hindus do not have a strict caste system, although previously they may have been divided between the Nagavamshi Kshatriya and the Brahmin castes, the latter of which would have represented a small minority of the population. Hindu temples are known as \"Bimong\" in Cham language, but are commonly referred to as \"tháp\" \"stupa\", in Vietnamese. The priests are divided into three levels, where the highest rank are known as \"Po Adhia\" or \"Po Sá\", followed by \"Po Tapáh\" and the junior priests \"Po Paséh\". In Ninh Thuận, where many of the Cham in Vietnam reside, Cham Balamon (Hindu Cham) number 44,000 while Cham Bani (Muslim Cham) number close to 31,000. Out of the 34 Cham villages in Ninh Thuận, 23 are Balamon Hindu, while 11 are Bani or Muslim. In Binh Thuan province, Balamon number close to 25,000 and Bani Cham around 10,000. There are four pure Cham villages and nine mixed villages in Bình Thuận Province.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7824194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7824194", "title": "Channabasavanna", "text": "Channabasavanna\n\nChannabasavanna also known as \" Guru Channabasaveshwara \" was Basava's nephew and one of the foremost Sharanas of the 12th century. He, along with Basava, Allama Prabhu and Akka Mahadevi, played a pivotal role in the propagation of the Lingayat faith. He was the youngest among the sharana leaders and grew up in the household of Basavanna as he was the son of Nagalambike, Basava's own sister. He also wrote the \"Karana Hasuge\" which is one of the most sacred texts of the \"Lingayats\", among many vachanas. He propounded the \"shatasthala\" philosophy associated with the six holy places of Veerashaiva Lingayat creed. He succeeded to the Shunya Simhasana at Anubhava Mantapa, Kalyana after the departure of Allama Prabhu, circa 1162ad. His young shoulders carried on the legacy of Basava after the latter's departure to Kudalasangama in 1162ad. He is credited to have systematised the entire manual of simple rituals for the followers. He was a strong advocate of the Ishtalinga wearing and expounded the material as well as the esoteric meaning of that divine symbol. He held together the nascent group of Shivasharanas and Jangmas in tumultuous times of clashes with the orthodox Brahmins and heretic Jains. Following the assassination of Kalachuri King Bijjala II in 1167 A.D, Channabasava along with his followers migrated to Ulavi safeguarding the Vachana literature. He attained Samadhi state there at the age of 25 passing on the leadership of the movement to Siddarama.\n\nA sacred temple of Channabasavanna is located at Ulavi in Karwar District (Uttar Kannada) of Karnataka State, India.\n\nThe temple of Channabasavanna faces the east. In front of the temple there is a spacious lake. The lake is filled with lotus flowers and hence very attractive. Devotees coming from different parts of the country, take a dip in the holy waters and are absolved of all their sins and impurities. Thrice a day the Mahasamadhi of Channabasavanna is worshipped with all pomp and ceremony. On the Samadhi is placed the face of Nandi. To the left is Sangameshwar, to the right Mallikarjuna and to the right of Mallikarjuna is Basavanna. The Mantap outside the temple is very beautiful. To the east and to the south there are doors. The door of the sanctum is to the east.\n\nHe composed many Vachanas under the \"nom de plume\" Kudala Channasangama.\n\n"}
{"id": "53292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53292", "title": "Coca", "text": "Coca\n\nCoca is any of the four cultivated plants in the family Erythroxylaceae, native to western South America.\n\nThe plant is grown as a cash crop in Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, even in areas where its cultivation is unlawful.\nThere are some reports that the plant is being cultivated in the south of Mexico as a cash crop and an alternative to smuggling its recreational product cocaine.\nIt also plays a role in many traditional Andean cultures as well as the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (see Traditional uses).\n\nCoca is known throughout the world for its psychoactive alkaloid, cocaine. The alkaloid content of coca leaves is relatively low, between 0.25% and 0.77%. The native people use it for a stimulant, like coffee, or an energy source or both. Coca-Cola used coca leaf extract in its products from 1885 and until about 1903. Extraction of cocaine from coca requires several solvents and a chemical process known as an acid-base extraction, which can fairly easily extract the alkaloids from the plant.\n\nThe coca plant resembles a blackthorn bush, and grows to a height of . The branches are straight, and the leaves are thin, opaque, oval, and taper at the extremities. A marked characteristic of the leaf is an areolated portion bounded by two longitudinal curved lines, one line on each side of the midrib, and more conspicuous on the under face of the leaf.\n\nThe flowers are small, and disposed in clusters on short stalks; the corolla is composed of five yellowish-white petals, the anthers are heart-shaped, and the pistil consists of three carpels united to form a three-chambered ovary. The flowers mature into red berries.\n\nThe leaves are sometimes eaten by the larvae of the moth \"Eloria noyesi\".\n\nThere are two species of cultivated coca, each with two varieties:\n\nAll four of the cultivated cocas were domesticated in pre-Columbian times and are more closely related to each other than to any other species.\n\nThere are two main theories relating to the evolution of the cultivated cocas. The first (put forth by Plowman and Bohm) suggests that \"Erythroxylum coca\" var. \"coca\" is ancestral, while \"Erythroxylum novogranatense\" var. \"truxillense\" is derived from it to be drought tolerant, and \"Erythroxylum novogranatense\" var. \"novogranatense\" derived from \"Erythroxylum novogranatense\" var. \"truxillense\".\n\nRecent research based on genetic evidence (Johnson et al. in 2005, Emche et al. in 2011, and Islam 2011) does not support this linear evolution and instead suggests a second domestication event as the origin of the \"Erythroxylum novogranatense\" varieties. There may be a common, but undiscovered ancestor.\n\nWild populations of \"Erythroxylum coca\" var. \"coca\" are found in the eastern Andes; the other 3 taxa are only known as cultivated plants.\n\nThe two subspecies of \"Erythroxylum coca\" are almost indistinguishable phenotypically. \"Erythroxylum novogranatense\" var. \"novogranatense\" and \"Erythroxylum novogranatense\" var. \"truxillense\" are phenotypically similar, but morphologically distinguishable. Under the older Cronquist system of classifying flowering plants, this was placed in an order Linales; more modern systems place it in the order Malpighiales.\n\nAlso known as \"supercoca\" or \"la millionaria\", Boliviana negra is a relatively new form of coca that is resistant to a herbicide called glyphosate. Glyphosate is a key ingredient in the multibillion-dollar aerial coca eradication campaign undertaken by the government of Colombia with U.S. financial and military backing known as Plan Colombia.\n\nThe herbicide resistance of this strain has at least two possible explanations: that a \"peer-to-peer\" network of coca farmers used selective breeding to enhance this trait through tireless effort, or the plant was genetically modified in a laboratory. In 1996, a patented glyphosate-resistant soybean was marketed by Monsanto Company, suggesting that it would be possible to genetically modify coca in an analogous manner. Spraying \"Boliviana negra\" with glyphosate would serve to strengthen its growth by eliminating the non-resistant weeds surrounding it. Joshua Davis, in the \"Wired\" article cited below, found no evidence of CP4 EPSPS, a protein produced by the glyphosate-resistant soybean, suggesting \"Bolivana negra\" was either created in a lab by a different technique or bred in the field.\n\nCoca is traditionally cultivated in the lower altitudes of the eastern slopes of the Andes (the Yungas), or the highlands depending on the species grown. Coca production begins in the valleys and upper jungle regions of the Andean region, where the countries of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia are host to more than 98 per cent of the global land area planted with coca. Coca plantations have also recently been discovered in Mexico, which could have major implications for the illegal cultivation of the plant.\n\nThe seeds are sown from December to January in small plots (\"almacigas\") sheltered from the sun, and the young plants when at in height are placed in final planting holes (\"aspi\"), or if the ground is level, in furrows (\"uachos\") in carefully weeded soil. The plants thrive best in hot, damp and humid locations, such as the clearings of forests; but the leaves most preferred are obtained in drier areas, on the hillsides. The leaves are gathered from plants varying in age from one and a half to upwards of forty years, but only the new fresh growth is harvested. They are considered ready for plucking when they break on being bent. The first and most abundant harvest is in March after the rainy season, the second is at the end of June, and the third in October or November. The green leaves (\"matu\") are spread in thin layers on coarse woollen cloths and dried in the sun; they are then packed in sacks, which must be kept dry in order to preserve the quality of the leaves.\n\nThe pharmacologically active ingredient of coca is the cocaine alkaloid, which is found in the amount of about 0.3 to 1.5%, averaging 0.8%, in fresh leaves. Besides cocaine, the coca leaf contains a number of other alkaloids, including methylecgonine cinnamate, benzoylecgonine, truxilline, hydroxytropacocaine, tropacocaine, ecgonine, cuscohygrine, dihydrocuscohygrine, nicotine, and hygrine. When chewed, coca acts as a mild stimulant and suppresses hunger, thirst, pain, and fatigue. Absorption of coca from the leaf is less rapid than nasal application of purified forms of the alkaloid (almost all of the coca alkaloid is absorbed within 20 minutes of nasal application, while it takes 2–12 hours after ingestion of the raw leaf for alkaline concentrations to peak.). When the raw leaf is consumed in tea, between 59 and 90% of the coca alkaloid is absorbed.\n\nThe coca leaf, when consumed in its natural form, does not induce a physiological or psychological dependence, nor does abstinence after long-term use produce symptoms typical to substance addiction. Due to its alkaloid content and non-addictive properties, coca has been suggested as a method to help recovering cocaine addicts to wean off the drug.\n\nTraces of coca leaves found in northern Peru dates the communal chewing of coca with lime 8000 years back. Other evidence of coca traces have been found in mummies dating 3000 years back in northern Chile. Beginning with the Valdivian culture, circa 3000 BC, there is an unbroken record of coca leaf consumption by succeeding cultural groups on the coast of Ecuador until European arrival as shown in their ceramic sculpture and abundant caleros or lime pots. Lime containers found in the north coast of Peru date around 2000 BC as evidenced by the findings at Huaca Prieta and the Jetetepeque river valley. Extensive archaeological evidence for the chewing of coca leaves dates back at least to the 6th century AD Moche period, and the subsequent Inca period, based on mummies found with a supply of coca leaves, pottery depicting the characteristic cheek bulge of a coca chewer, spatulas for extracting alkali and figured bags for coca leaves and lime made from precious metals, and gold representations of coca in special gardens of the Inca in Cuzco.\n\nCoca chewing may originally have been limited to the eastern Andes before its introduction to the Inca. As the plant was viewed as having a divine origin, its cultivation became subject to a state monopoly and its use restricted to nobles and a few favored classes (court orators, couriers, favored public workers, and the army) by the rule of the Topa Inca (1471–1493). As the Incan empire declined, the leaf became more widely available. After some deliberation, Philip II of Spain issued a decree recognizing the drug as essential to the well-being of the Andean Indians but urging missionaries to end its religious use. The Spanish are believed to have effectively encouraged use of coca by an increasing majority of the population to increase their labor output and tolerance for starvation, but it is not clear that this was planned deliberately.\n\nCoca was first introduced to Europe in the 16th century, but did not become popular until the mid-19th century, with the publication of an influential paper by Dr. Paolo Mantegazza praising its stimulating effects on cognition. This led to invention of coca wine and the first production of pure cocaine. Coca wine (of which Vin Mariani was the best-known brand) and other coca-containing preparations were widely sold as patent medicines and tonics, with claims of a wide variety of health benefits. The original version of Coca-Cola was among these. These products became illegal in most countries outside of South America in the early 20th century, after the addictive nature of cocaine was widely recognized. In 1859, Albert Niemann of the University of Göttingen became the first person to isolate the chief alkaloid of coca, which he named \"cocaine\".\n\nIn the early 20th century, the Dutch colony of Java became a leading exporter of coca leaf. By 1912 shipments to Amsterdam, where the leaves were processed into cocaine, reached 1000 tons, overtaking the Peruvian export market. Apart from the years of the First World War, Java remained a greater exporter of coca than Peru until the end of the 1920s. Other colonial powers also tried to grow coca (including the British in India), but with the exception of the Japanese in Formosa, these were relatively unsuccessful.\n\nIn recent times (2006), the governments of several South American countries, such as Peru, Bolivia and Venezuela, have defended and championed the traditional use of coca, as well as the modern uses of the leaf and its extracts in household products such as teas and toothpaste. The coca plant was also the inspiration for Bolivia's Coca Museum.\n\nTraditional medical uses of coca are foremost as a stimulant to overcome fatigue, hunger, and thirst. It is considered particularly effective against altitude sickness. It also is used as an anesthetic and analgesic to alleviate the pain of headache, rheumatism, wounds and sores, etc. Before stronger anaesthetics were available, it also was used for broken bones, childbirth, and during trepanning operations on the skull. The high calcium content in coca explains why people used it for bone fractures. Because coca constricts blood vessels, it also serves to oppose bleeding, and coca seeds were used for nosebleeds. Indigenous use of coca has also been reported as a treatment for malaria, ulcers, asthma, to improve digestion, to guard against bowel laxity, as an aphrodisiac, and credited with improving longevity. Modern studies have supported a number of these medical applications.\n\nRaw coca leaves, chewed or consumed as tea or mate de coca, are rich in nutritional properties. Specifically, the coca plant contains essential minerals (calcium, potassium, phosphorus), vitamins (B1, B2, C, and E) and nutrients such as protein and fiber.\n\nCoca has also been a vital part of the religious cosmology of the Andean peoples of Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, Colombia, northern Argentina, and Chile from the pre-Inca period through to the present. Coca leaves play a crucial part in offerings to the apus (mountains), Inti (the sun), or Pachamama (the earth). Coca leaves are also often read in a form of divination analogous to reading tea leaves in other cultures. As one example of the many traditional beliefs about coca, it is believed by the miners of Cerro de Pasco to soften the veins of ore, if masticated (chewed) and thrown upon them (see Cocomama in Inca mythology). In addition, coca use in shamanic rituals is well documented wherever local native populations have cultivated the plant. For example, the Tayronas of Colombia's Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta would chew the plant before engaging in extended meditation and prayer.\n\nTraditionally, coca leaves are prepared either to chew or as a tea (mate de coca). \n\nIn Bolivia bags of coca leaves are sold in local markets and by street vendors. The activity of chewing coca is called \"mambear\", \"chacchar\" or \"acullicar\", borrowed from Quechua, \"coquear\" (northern Argentina), or in Bolivia, \"picchar\", derived from the Aymara language. The Spanish \"masticar\" is also frequently used, along with the slang term \"bolear,\" derived from the word \"bola\" or ball of coca pouched in the cheek while chewing. Typical coca consumption varies between 20 and 60 grams per day, and contemporary methods are believed to be unchanged from ancient times. Coca is kept in a woven pouch (\"chuspa\" or \"huallqui\"). A few leaves are chosen to form a quid \"(acullico)\" held between the mouth and gums. Doing so may cause a tingling and numbing sensation in their mouths. (The formerly ubiquitous dental anaesthetic novocaine / procaine has a similar effect.)\n\nChewing coca leaves is most common in indigenous communities across the central Andean region, particularly in places like the highlands of Argentina, Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru, where the cultivation and consumption of coca is a part of the national culture, similar to chicha. It also serves as a powerful symbol of indigenous cultural and religious identity, amongst a diversity of indigenous nations throughout South America. Tobacco leaves were also traditionally chewed in the same way in North America, though modern chewing tobacco is typically heavily processed.\nOne option for chewing coca is with a tiny quantity of \"ilucta\" (a preparation of the ashes of the quinoa plant) added to the coca leaves; it softens their astringent flavor and activates the alkaloids. Other names for this basifying substance are \"llipta\" in Peru and the Spanish word \"lejía\", \"bleach\" in English. The consumer carefully uses a wooden stick (formerly often a spatula of precious metal) to transfer an alkaline component into the quid without touching his flesh with the corrosive substance. The alkali component, usually kept in a gourd (\"ishcupuro\" or \"poporo\"), can be made by burning limestone to form unslaked quicklime, burning quinoa stalks, or the bark from certain trees, and may be called \"ilipta\", \"tocra\" or \"mambe\" depending on its composition. Many of these materials are salty in flavor, but there are variations. The most common base in the La Paz area of Bolivia is a product known as \"lejía dulce\" (\"sweet lye\"), which is made from quinoa ashes mixed with aniseed and cane sugar, forming a soft black putty with a sweet and pleasing flavor. In some places, baking soda is used under the name \"bico\".\n\nIn the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, on the Caribbean Coast of Colombia, coca is consumed by the Kogi, Arhuaco, and Wiwa by using a special device called poporo. It represents the womb and the stick is a phallic symbol. The movements of the stick in the poporo symbolize the sexual act. For a man the poporo is a good companion that means \"food\", \"woman\", \"memory\", and \"meditation\". The poporo is the mark of manhood. When a boy is ready to be married, his mother initiates him in the use of the coca. This act of initiation is carefully supervised by the Mamo, a traditional priest-teacher-leader.\n\nFresh samples of the dried leaves, uncurled, are a deep green colour on the upper surface, and a grey-green on the lower surface, and have a strong tea-like aroma. When chewed, they produce a pleasurable numbness in the mouth, and have a pleasant, pungent taste. They are traditionally chewed with lime or some other reagent such as bicarbonate of soda to increase the release of the active ingredients from the leaf. Older species have a camphoraceous smell and a brownish color, and lack the pungent taste.\n\nAlthough coca leaf chewing is common only among the indigenous populations, the consumption of coca tea (\"Mate de coca\") is common among all sectors of society in the Andean countries, especially due to their high elevations from sea level, and is widely held to be beneficial to health, mood, and energy. Coca leaf is sold packaged into teabags in most grocery stores in the region, and establishments that cater to tourists generally feature coca tea.\n\nIn the Andes commercially manufactured coca teas, granola bars, cookies, hard candies, etc. are available in most stores and supermarkets, including upscale suburban supermarkets.\n\nCoca is used industrially in the cosmetics and food industries. A decocainized extract of coca leaf is one of the flavoring ingredients in Coca-Cola. Before the criminalization of cocaine, however, the extract was not decocainized. Therefore, Coca-Cola's original formula did include cocaine.\n\nCoca tea is produced industrially from coca leaves in South America by a number of companies, including Enaco S.A. (National Company of the Coca) a government enterprise in Peru. Coca leaves are also found in a brand of herbal liqueur called \"Agwa de Bolivia\" (grown in Bolivia and de-cocainized in Amsterdam), and a natural flavouring ingredient in Red Bull Cola, that was launched in March 2008.\n\nBeginning in the early 21st century, there has been a movement in Bolivia, Peru, and Venezuela to promote and expand legal markets for the crop. The presidents of these three countries have personally identified with this movement. In particular, Evo Morales of Bolivia (elected in December 2005) was a coca grower's union leader. Morales asserts that \"la coca no es cocaína\"—the coca leaf is not cocaine. During his speech to the General Assembly of the United Nations on September 19, 2006, he held a coca leaf in his hand to demonstrate its innocuity.\n\nAlan García, president of Peru, has recommended its use in salads and other edible preparations. A Peruvian-based company has announced plans to market a modern version of Vin Mariani, which will be available in both natural and de-cocainized varieties.\n\nIn Venezuela, former president Hugo Chávez said in a speech on January 2008 that he chews coca every day, and that his \"hook up\" is Bolivian president Evo Morales. Chávez reportedly said \"I chew coca every day in the morning... and look how I am\" before showing his biceps to his audience, the Venezuelan National Assembly.\n\nOn the other hand, the Colombian government has recently moved in the opposite direction. For years, Bogotá has allowed indigenous coca farmers to sell coca products, promoting the enterprise as one of the few successful commercial opportunities available to recognized tribes like the Nasa, who have grown it for years and regard it as sacred. In December 2005, the Paeces – a Tierradentro (Cauca) indigenous community – started to produce a carbonated soft drink called \"Coca Sek\". The production method belongs to the resguardos of Calderas (Inzá) and takes about of coca per 3,000 produced bottles. The drink was never sold widely in Colombia and efforts to do so ended in May 2007 when it was abruptly banned by the Colombian government.\n\nCoca Colla is an energy drink which is produced in Bolivia with the use of coca extract as its base. It was launched on the Bolivian markets in La Paz, Santa Cruz, and Cochabamba in mid-April 2010.\n\nProbably the earliest reference to coca in English literature is Abraham Cowley's poem \"A Legend of Coca\" in his 1662 collection of poems \"Six Books of Plants\".\n\nCoca leaf is the raw material for the manufacture of the drug cocaine, a powerful stimulant and anaesthetic extracted chemically from large quantities of coca leaves. Today, since it has mostly been replaced as a medical anaesthetic by synthetic analogues such as procaine, cocaine is best known as an illegal recreational drug. The cultivation, sale, and possession of unprocessed coca leaf (but not of any processed form of cocaine) is generally legal in the countries – such as Bolivia, Peru, Chile, and Argentina – where traditional use is established, although cultivation is often restricted in an attempt to control the production of cocaine. In the case of Argentina, it is legal only in some northern provinces where the practice is so common that the state has accepted it.\n\nThe prohibition of the use of the coca leaf except for medical or scientific purposes was established by the United Nations in the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. The coca leaf is listed on Schedule I of the 1961 Single Convention together with cocaine and heroin. The Convention determined that \"The Parties shall so far as possible enforce the uprooting of all coca bushes which grow wild. They shall destroy the coca bushes if illegally cultivated\" (Article 26), and that, \"Coca leaf chewing must be abolished within twenty-five years from the coming into force of this Convention\" (Article 49, 2.e).\n\nThe historic rationale for international prohibition of coca leaf in the 1961 Single Convention comes from \"The Commission of Enquiry on the Coca Leaf study\" published in 1950. It was requested of the United Nations by the permanent representative of Peru, and was prepared by a commission that visited Bolivia and Peru briefly in 1949 to \"investigate the effects of chewing the coca leaf and the possibilities of limiting its production and controlling its distribution.\" It concluded that the effects of chewing coca leaves were negative, even though chewing coca was defined as a habit, not an addiction.\n\nThe report was sharply criticised for its arbitrariness, lack of precision, and racist connotations. The team members' professional qualifications and parallel interests were also criticised, as were the methodology used and the incomplete selection and use of existing scientific literature on the coca leaf. Questions have been raised as to whether a similar study today would pass the scrutiny and critical review to which scientific studies are routinely subjected.\n\nDespite the legal restriction among countries party to the international treaty, coca chewing and drinking of coca tea is carried out daily by millions of people in the Andes as well as considered sacred within indigenous cultures. Coca consumers claim that most of the information provided about the traditional use of the coca leaf and its modern adaptations are erroneous. This has made it impossible to shed light on the plant's positive aspects and its potential benefits for the physical, mental, and social health of the people who consume and cultivate it.\n\nIn an attempt to obtain international acceptance for the legal recognition of traditional use of coca in their respective countries, Peru and Bolivia successfully led an amendment, paragraph 2 of Article 14 into the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, stipulating that measures to eradicate illicit cultivation and to eliminate illicit demand \"should take due account of traditional licit use, where there is historic evidence of such use.\" Bolivia also made a formal reservation to the 1988 Convention, which required countries to adopt measures to establish the use, consumption, possession, purchase or cultivation of the coca leaf for personal consumption as a criminal offence. Bolivia stated that \"the coca leaf is not, in and of itself, a narcotic drug or psychotropic substance\" and stressed that its \"legal system recognizes the ancestral nature of the licit use of the coca leaf, which, for much of Bolivia's population, dates back over centuries.\"\n\nHowever, the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) – the independent and quasi-judicial control organ for the implementation of the United Nations drug conventions – denied the validity of article 14 in the 1988 Convention over the requirements of the 1961 Convention, or any reservation made by parties, since it does not \"absolve a party of its rights and obligations under the other international drug control treaties.\"\n\nThe INCB stated in its 1994 Annual Report that \"mate de coca, which is considered harmless and legal in several countries in South America, is an illegal activity under the provisions of both the 1961 Convention and the 1988 Convention, though that was not the intention of the plenipotentiary conferences that adopted those conventions.\" It implicitly also dismissed the original report of the Commission of Enquiry on the Coca Leaf by recognizing that \"there is a need to undertake a scientific review to assess the coca-chewing habit and the drinking of coca tea.\"\n\nNevertheless, the INCB on other occasions did not show signs of an increased sensitivity towards the Bolivian claim on the rights of their indigenous population, and the general public, to consume the coca leaf in a traditional manner by chewing the leaf, and drinking coca tea, as \"not in line with the provisions of the 1961 Convention.\" The Board considered Bolivia, Peru and a few other countries that allow such practises to be in breach with their treaty obligations, and insisted that \"each party to the Convention should establish as a criminal offence, when committed intentionally, the possession and purchase of coca leaf for personal consumption.\"\n\nIn reaction to the 2007 Annual Report of the INCB, the Bolivian government announced that it would formally issue a request to the United Nations to unschedule the coca leaf of List 1 of the 1961 UN Single Convention. Bolivia led a diplomatic effort to do so beginning in March 2009, but eighteen countries out of a total of 184, those 18 being listed as followed (chronologically: the United States, Sweden, United Kingdom, Latvia, Japan, Canada, France, Germany, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Italy, Mexico, Russian Federation, Malaysia, Singapore, and Ukraine) objected to the change before the January 2011 deadline. A single objection would have been sufficient to block the modification. The legally unnecessary step of supporting the change was taken formally by Spain, Ecuador, Venezuela, and Costa Rica. In June 2011, Bolivia moved to denounce the 1961 Convention over the prohibition of the coca leaf.\n\nSince the 1980s, the countries in which coca is grown have come under political and economic pressure from the United States to restrict the cultivation of the crop in order to reduce the supply of cocaine on the international market.\n\nThis effort has been politically controversial, with proponents claiming that the production of cocaine is several times the amount needed to satisfy legal demand and inferring that the vast majority of the coca crop is destined for the illegal market. As per the proclaimed view, this not only contributes to the major social problem of drug abuse but also financially supports insurgent groups that collaborate with drug traffickers in some cocaine-producing territories. Critics of the effort claim that it creates hardship primarily for the coca growers, many of whom are poor and have no viable alternative way to make a living, causes environmental problems, that it is not effective in reducing the supply of cocaine, in part because cultivation can move to other areas, and that any social harm created by drug abuse is only made worse by the War on Drugs. The environmental problems include \"ecocide\", where vast tracts of land and forest are sprayed with glyphosate or Roundup, with the intention of eradicating the coca plant. However, the incidental environmental damage is severe, because many plant species are wiped out in the process.\n\nCoca has been reintroduced to the United States as a flavoring agent in the herbal liqueur Agwa de Bolivia.\n\nBoliviana negra, a genetically engineered type of coca, resists glyphosate herbicides and increases yields.\n\nThe primary organization authorized to purchase coca leaves is ENACO S.A., headquartered in Peru. Outside of South America, most countries' laws make no distinction between the coca leaf and any other substance containing cocaine, so the possession of coca leaf is prohibited. In South America coca leaf is illegal in both Paraguay and Brazil.\n\nIn the Netherlands, coca leaf is legally in the same category as cocaine, both are List I drugs of the Opium Law. The Opium Law specifically mentions the leaves of the plants of the genus \"Erythroxylon\". However, the possession of living plants of the genus \"Erythroxylon\" is not actively prosecuted, even though they are legally forbidden.\n\nIn the United States, a Stepan Company plant in Maywood, New Jersey is a registered importer of coca leaf. The company manufactures pure cocaine for medical use and also produces a cocaine-free extract of the coca leaf, which is used as a flavoring ingredient in Coca-Cola. Other companies have registrations with the DEA to import coca leaf according to 2011 Federal Register Notices for Importers, including Johnson Matthey, Inc, Pharmaceutical Materials; Mallinckrodt Inc; Penick Corporation; and the Research Triangle Institute. Analysts have noted the substantial importation of coca leaf into the USA. but the actual quantity is unknown.\n\nCoca leaf is listed as a Schedule I drug (most dangerous) according to the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act of Canada (S.C. 1996, c. 19) alongside Opium (Heroin) and synthetic opioid analgesics. Specifically, it lists Coca (Erythroxylon), its preparations, derivatives, alkaloids, and salts, including:(1) Coca leaves (2) Cocaine and (3) Ecgonine. Possession of a Schedule I substance is illegal and trafficking can result in punishment of up to life imprisonment.\n\nCoca leaf is considered a Schedule 9 prohibited substance in Australia under the Poisons Standard (October 2015). A Schedule 9 substance is a substance which may be abused or misused, the manufacture, possession, sale or use of which should be prohibited by law except when required for medical or scientific research, or for analytical, teaching or training purposes with approval of Commonwealth and/or State or Territory Health Authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2181484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2181484", "title": "De heretico comburendo", "text": "De heretico comburendo\n\nThe De heretico comburendo (2 Hen.4 c.15) was a law passed by Parliament under King Henry IV of England in 1401, punishing heretics with burning at the stake. This law was one of the strictest religious censorship statutes ever enacted in England. In March 1401 William Sawtrey became the first Lollard to be burned.\n\nThe statute declared there were \"divers false and perverse people of a certain new sect ... they make and write books, they do wickedly instruct and inform people ... and commit subversion of the said catholic faith\". The sect alluded to is the Lollards, followers of John Wycliffe.\n\n\"De heretico comburendo\" urged \"that this wicked sect, preachings, doctrines, and opinions, should from henceforth cease and be utterly destroyed\", and declared \"that all and singular having such books or any writings of such wicked doctrine and opinions, shall really with effect deliver or cause to be delivered all such books and writings to the diocesan of the same place within forty days from the time of the proclamation of this ordinance and statute\".\n\n\"And if any person ... such books in the form aforesaid do not deliver, then the diocesan of the same place in his diocese such person or persons in this behalf defamed or evidently suspected and every of them may by the authority of the said ordinance and statute cause to be arrested\". If they failed to abjure their heretical beliefs, or relapsed after an initial abjuration, they \nwould \"be burnt, that such punishment may strike fear into the minds of others\".\n\nSection 6 of the Act of Supremacy 1558 (1 Eliz.1 c.1) (1559) repealed the statutes but it was not until March 1677 that a bill to take away the Crown's right to the writ was introduced in the House of Commons. It passed in that session.\n\n\"De heretico comburendo\" is a Latin phrase meaning \"Regarding the burning of heretics\". An alternate spelling is \"De haeretico comburendo\", reflecting the proper ancient and Middle Ages spelling (by the second century the diphthong \"ae\" had been changed in pronunciation from to ; most texts today use the spelling without the letter \"a\"). See Latin spelling and pronunciation for more information.\n\nAlthough partial English translations of the Bible had existed for hundreds of years, the Middle English translation published under the direction of John Wycliffe in the 1380s, known as Wycliffe's Bible, was the first complete translation and the first to gain widespread acceptance and use. The Church authorities comdemned Wycliffe's translation because they deemed the commentary included with the work to be heretical, and because they feared a vernacular translation of the Bible from the Latin Vulgate, absent appropriate catechesis, would lead the ignorant laity to reject Church authority and fall into heresy.\n\nWycliffe was the inspiration for what would become the Lollard movement, which was considered heretical by the Church. The Constitutions of Oxford, established in 1409 by Archbishop Thomas Arundel, were further punitive measures intended to punish heresy in England that grew in large part out of the \"De heretico comburendo\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44514325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44514325", "title": "Dominican Vudú", "text": "Dominican Vudú\n\nDominican Vudú, also known as Las 21 Divisiones (\"21 Divisions\"), is a syncretic religion of Caribbean origin which developed in the Hispaniola.\n\nDominican Vudú is composed of three main divisions and an annexed extra: \"Rada Division also known as the white or sweet division\", whose spirits are of African origin (usually Fon, Ewe and Nago spirits); the Petro Division also known as the fire or bitter division (mostly of Bantu origin spirits); the Gede Division also called black division (whose spirits deal with death and the ancestors); and lastly the \"Native American Division also called the water division\", whose spirits are of Pre-Columbian origin (usually refers to Taíno ancestral spirits of the island). Most spirits are syncretized with a catholic saints image. These are some of the main features that distinguishes Dominican Vudú from other forms of Vodoo. Some major deities venerated in Dominican Vudú include:\n\n\nDominican Vudú music uses Afro-Caribbean percussion, a lot of times it is played with drums popularly known as \"Atabales or \"Palos\", which are of Kongo origin; along with it a Guira (metal scraper). The drummers are known as \"Paleros\", the ceremonies which they perform are usually referred to as \"Fiesta de Palo\" or \"Maní\"\". Some of the most popular artists to record this music are Enerolisa Nuñez and Bembesito.\n\nDominican Vudú is practiced through a Tcha-Tcha (“\"maraca\"” – which means rattle) lineage. In Haiti, Vodoo has come about and become more popular through another lineage known as the Asson. However, before the Asson, the Tcha-Tcha lineage was the prominent lineage in Haiti. Thus the Tcha-Tcha lineage is one of the oldest lineages within the Vodou tradition all over the island.\n\nDominican Vudú practitioners are often called \"\"Caballos\"”, \"Brujos\" or \"Servidores\" but they are also known as \"Papa Bokos\" and \"Papa Loa\" (masculine); and Mama Mambos and Mama Loa (feminine). One who has obtained this title has gone through the last and highest level of initiation that can take anywhere between 3 and 9 days and nights as well as have spent a time working for the community.\n\nDominican Vudú is less uniform in comparison to the popularly known Haitian lineage called \"Assogwe\". There is much regional variation in the Dominican Republic and parts of Haiti, one will still surly find a base structure through-out the island that defines and connects all lineages. Altars or shrines range from shacks, to compounds, or even dedicated temples. There is also variations in how ceremonies are conducted or how \"caballos\" (horse of the spirit) may mount a specific Loa. In conclusion Differences depend on lineage and or region of practice no matter if in Haiti or the Dominican Republic. It is said that Vodou on the island is a big tree with many branches.\n\n"}
{"id": "13250871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13250871", "title": "Dōsojin", "text": "Dōsojin\n\n\"Dōsojin\" can sometimes be enshrined in small roadside Shinto shrines called \"hokora\". When shaped like a phallus, they are associated with birth and procreation, and therefore marital harmony.\n\nIn modern times, \"Dōsojin\" have become fused in popular belief with a different deity having similar characteristics called \"Sae no kami\", whose birth is described in the Kojiki. When \"kami\" Izanagi-no-mikoto sought to leave after going to the realm of the dead (Yomi no Kuni) to visit his spouse Izanami-no-mikoto, he was chased by the demoness . To stop her, he threw her a stick from which Sae no Kami was born. For this reason, he is the \"kami\" who prevents the passage of the spirits of the dead into the world of the living, and therefore a god who is a protector of boundaries. He is represented by large rocks set at the edges of villages. Because of the rocks' elongated shape, he came to be associated also with childbirth, children and matrimonial happiness. As a consequence, he was in turn associated also with Jizō, the bodhisattva who is the protector of children.\n\nJizō is the Japanese version of Bodhisattva \"Ksitigarbha\", a Buddhist bodhisattva worshiped mainly in East Asia. His assimilation within a group of \"kami\" is an example of the Japanese syncretism of Buddhism and Shinto (\"shinbutsu shūgō\"). Originally from India, in Japan he was given new attributes, and he is known as the guardian of unborn, aborted or prematurely dead children. Often found along roads in Japan, he has become a \"dōsojin\".\n\n, according to the Kojiki, was born when \"kami\" Izanagi threw away his trousers to wash himself after returning from Yomi, the land of the dead. The Nihongi and Kogoshūi tell the same myth, but call the \"kami\" Sarutahiko.\n"}
{"id": "57758554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57758554", "title": "Fenshen", "text": "Fenshen\n\nFenshen 分身 (lit. \"divide the body\") or fenxing 分形 (\"divide the physical form\") was a legendary Daoist and \"fangshi\" Master of Esoterica technique for multilocation, that is, transforming or multiplying one's body into two or more identical versions. A famous story about \"fenshen\" concerns general Cao Cao ordering the execution of the alchemist Zuo Ci, who when taken into prison playfully divided himself into multiple Master Zuos, thus bamboozling the guards and escaping death. \n\nThe Chinese word \"fēnshēn\" is a compound of \"fēn\" 分 \"divide, separate, split, divert; differentiate, distinguish, discriminate, demarcate\" and \"shēn\" 身 \"torso of a man or animal, trunk of the body, the body below the neck; by synecdoche, general term for body\" (Kroll 2017: 112, 406).\n\nThe Chinese \"Hanyu Da Cidian\", which is lexicographically comparable to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", defines \"fenshen\" 分身 with four meanings and cites earliest usages (1993 1: 571-572).\n\nThe near synonym \"fēnshén\" 分神 \"transformation of the spirit\", with \"shén\" 神 \"god; deity; spirit; soul; mind\" for \"shen\" \"body\", translates as \"give some attention to; divert attention to; distraction\", as used in \"fēnshénbùxiá\" 分神不暇 \"unable to be in two places at the same time\" (Bishop 2016).\nCompare the terms \"biànshén\" 變身 \"transform the body\" and \"biànshén\" 變神 \"transform the spirit\" referring to a meditator indentifying with a specific deity or the entire cosmos.\n\nThe term \"fēnxíng\" 分形, with 形 \"outward form, appearance, shape; physical form of human being, often contrasted with spiritual essence\" (Kroll 2017: 509), was synonymous with \"fenshen\" in early Daoist texts.\n\nThe \"Hanyu Da Cidian\" defines \"fenxing\" 分形 with two meanings and cites their earliest usages (1993 1: 570-571)\n\nChinese Buddhist terminology uses \"fenshen\" 分身 \"dividing the body\" referring to the temporal \"huàshēn\" 化身 \"transformation bodies; \"nirmāṇakāya\"\" of the Buddha, \"with which he teaches and saves living beings, a Buddha's power to reproduce himself ad infinitum and anywhere\"; and \"fenxing\" 分形 \"varied manifestation\" means \"to manifest in different forms for different beings simultaneously\" (\"Digital Dictionary of Buddhism\"). In general usage, \"huashen\" 化身 means \"incarnation; embodiment; personification\" (Bishop 2016).\n\nIn Sino-Japanese vocabulary, \"bunshin\" 分身 (borrowed from \"fenshen\") translates as \"a branch; an offshoot; [in self-reference] the other self; \"one's\" alter ego; [Buddhism] incarnations of the Buddha\", and is used in \"bunshin no jutsu\" 分身の術 (from \"fēnshēnshù\") \"magic to create body-doubles\" (Watanabe et al. 2003: 2341).\n\nStandard Chinese usage has semantically modernized both these ancient Daoist \"body division\" words: \"fenshen\" is Internet slang for sockpuppet and \"fenxing\" is mathematical jargon for fractal.\n\nTranslating Chinese \"fenshen\" and \"fenxing\" into English is problematic owing to numerous different stories about how Daoist and Buddhist masters could multiply themselves. The narratives describe body division as more of an ephemeral incarnation than a perpetual reincarnation, and involve elements of shapeshifting, body double, alter ego, doppelganger, avatar, personification, embodiment, and astral projection.\n\nEnglish translations of ancient \"fenshen\" and \"fenxing\" include:\n\nIn present day usage, English translation equivalents for \"fenshen\" expressions include (Wu 2003 1: 1359, and Bishop 2016):\n\nChinese texts began to record \"fenshen\" and \"fenxing\" in the 3rd and 4th centuries CE.\n\nZhang Hua's c. 290 \"Bowuzhi\" \"Records of Diverse Matters\" names sixteen historical \"fangshi\" brought together by Cao Cao, a powerful general at the end of the Han dynasty (206 BCE-220 CE), including Zuo Ci who could \"biànxíng\" 變形 \"change form; transform\".\n\nThe names of the 'Master of Technic' whom Cao Cao assembled were Wang Zhen [王真] from Shangdang, Feng Junda [封君達] from Longxi, Gan Shi [甘始] from Ganling [甘陵], Lu Nu Sheng [魯女生], and Hua Tuo, styled Yuanhua, from the land of Qiao; Dongguo Yannian [東郭延年], Tang Yu [唐霅], Leng Shou Guang [冷壽光], Pu Shi [卜式] from Henan, Zhang Diao [張貂], Ji Zixun [薊子訓], Fei Chang Fang [費長房] from Runan, Xian Nu Gu [鮮奴辜], and Zhao Sheng Shi [趙聖卿], the military official for the Wei, from Henan; Qie Jian [卻儉], styled Mengjie, from Yangcheng, and Zuo Ci, styled Yuanfang, from Lujiang. (tr. Greatrex 1987: 121). \n\nThe above sixteen, according to statements made by [Cao Cao's sons] emperor Wen of the Wei (i.e. Cao Pi), the king of Dong'e (i.e. Cao Zhi), and Zong Changtong [仲長統], could all refrain from eating grains, make themselves invisible, and go in and out without passing over the threshold of the door. Zuo Ci could change his form [能变形], deceive people's vision and hearing, dispel evil spirits and the like. They were the sort of people whom the Record of the Rites of Zhou (Zhouli) calls 'mystifiers of the common folk' [怪民] and the Wangzhi [chapter of the Liji] refers to as 'Holding to the Left path' [挾左道者]. (tr. Greatrex 1987: 121-122). \n\nThe earliest reliable descriptions of \"fenshen\" and \"fenxing\" are found in two c. 320 texts compiled by the Jin Dynasty Daoist scholar Ge Hong (282-343), the \"Baopuzi\" or \"Master who Embraces Simplicity\" and the \"Shenxian Zhuan\" or \"Biographies of Divine Transcendents\". \n\nTwo \"Baopuzi\" Inner Chapters mention multiplying or dividing the body. \"Truth on Earth\" (18, 地真) uses \"fenxing\" 分形 \"divide the body\" twice, \"xingfen\" 形分 \"body division\" once, and \"shenfen\" 身分\"body division\" once. The context describes three meditation techniques, \"Shou xuanyi\" 守玄一 Guarding the Mysterious One, \"Shouyi\" 守一 Guarding the One, and \"Mingjing\" 明鏡 Bright Mirror.\nMystery-Unity is seen only in the sun. The search for It begins in the sun, and is described as \"knowing white and preserving black\" [所謂知白守黑] or \"unsuccessful in the desire for death\" [欲死不得者也]. To begin with, you must purify yourself and fast for a hundred days. Only then may you go to a teacher and seek It, but then It can be obtained in not more than three or four days; once you possess It you will never lose It provided you take steps to preserve It. The preservation of Mystery-Unity consists in imagining yourself as being divided into three persons [守玄一並思其身分為三人]. Once these three have become visible, you can continue to increase the number to several dozen, all like yourself [三人已見又轉益之可至數十人皆如己身], who may be concealed or revealed, and all of whom are automatically in possession of secret oral directions. This may be termed a process for multiplying the body [此所謂分形之道]. Through this method [Zuo Ci], [Ji Liao], and my uncle [Ge Xuan] could be in several dozen places at one time. When guests were present they could be one host speaking the guests in the house, another host greeting guests beside the stream, and still another host making casts with his fishing line, but the guests were unable to distinguish which was he true one. (tr. Ware 1966: 305-306) \nRobinet notes that Ge Xuan's mundane activities do not distract him from the \"major occupation of all Taoists—dreaming alongside running water\" (1979: 49).\n\nThe context continues with Ge Hong quoting \"my teacher\", Zheng Yin 鄭隱 who was a disciple of Ge Xuan, about methods for body multiplication.\nMy teacher used to say that to preserve Unity was to practice jointly Bright Mirror [守一兼修明鏡], and that on becoming successful in the mirror procedure a man would be able to multiply his body to several dozen all with the same dress and facial expression [能分形為數十人衣服面貌皆如一也]. My teacher also used to say that you should take the great medicines diligently if you wished to enjoy Fullness of Life [欲長生當勤服大藥], and that you should use metal solutions and a multiplication of your person if you wished to communicate with the gods [欲得通神當金水分形]. By multiplying the body, the three Hun and the seven Po are automatically seen within the body [形分則自見其身中之三魂七魄], and in addition it becomes possible to meet and visit with the powers of heaven and the deities of earth and to have all the gods of the mountains and rivers in one's service. (tr. Ware 1966: 306) \nThis \"metal solutions\" translates \"jīnshuǐ\" 金水 Gold Water, referring to Gold Liquor, an alchemical elixir prepared from gold, mercury, saltpeter, and realgar.\n\n\"Looking Farther Afield\" (19, 遐覽) uses \"huaxing\" 化形 \"transform the body\" and \"fenxing\" \"divide the body\" referring to a lost text, the \"Yunu yinwei\" 玉女隱微 Latency of the Jade Woman.\n\nThe three \"xian\" transcendents Zuo Ci 左慈, Ge Xuan 葛玄, and Ji Liao 薊遼 or Li Zixun 薊子訓 mentioned as masters of \"fenxing\" are more fully described in Guo's other compilation below.\n\nFive \"Shenxian zhuan\" hagiographies of Daoist \"xian\" describe \"fenxing\" 分形 or \"fenshen\" 分身 body division, usually resulting from the adept taking \"waidan\" alchemical elixirs.\n\nFirst, Zhang Daoling (34-156 CE), first patriarch of the Way of the Celestial Masters, founded the Way of the Five Pecks of Rice movement in 142, and eventually controlled a prosperous theocratic state in present day Sichuan.\nOn account of all this, Zhang Ling obtained much wealth, which he used to buy the necessary medicinal ingredients for synthesizing elixirs. When the elixirs were completed, he ingested only half the dosage, not wishing to ascend to Heaven immediately. As a result, he gained the ability to divide himself into several dozen persons [能分形化作數十人]. Now, there was a pond outside the gate of Zhang's residence, on which he frequently went boating to amuse himself. Meanwhile, however, many Daoist guests would be going and coming in his courtyard. There would always be one Zhang Ling in the courtyard, conversing, eating, and drinking with these guests, while the real Zhang was out on the pond. (tr. Campany 2002: 351) \n\nSecond, Zuo Ci was a Daoist master who allegedly obtained the alchemical classics \"Scripture of Nine Elixirs\" and the \"Scripture of Gold Liquor\" from inside a cave on Mount Tianzhu, and mastering their techniques made him become \"capable of transforming into a myriad different forms\". Zuo uses his shapeshifting ability both to amuse and to taunt rulers. \"Behind the amusing and the taunting lies a single lesson: transcendence-seeking adepts are of a superior order of being; rulers' appropriate response to them is respect and veneration, and any attempts to dominate or manipulate are futile.\" (Campany 2002: 283).\n\nDuring the end of the Han dynasty (189-220 CE), the prominent general Cao Cao became Grand chancellor and founded what later became the state of Cao Wei. When Cao Cao heard of Zuo Ci's supernatural powers, including the ability to live without eating, he summoned him to court and incarcerated Zuo under supervision without any food for one year. Upon seeing that Zuo had remained in perfect health, Cao concluded that he was a sorcerer, and decided to execute him. Zuo Ci immediately realized Cao's intent, managed to magically disappear, and returned home. \nDuke Cao was now even more determined to have him killed, and he also wanted to test whether Zuo could avoid death, so he gave orders to have him apprehended. As Cao's men approached, Zuo fled into a flock of sheep, and his pursuers, losing sight of him, suspected that he might have transformed himself into one of the sheep. They had the sheep counted. Originally there had been an even thousand of them, but now there was one extra, so they knew that Zuo had indeed transformed himself. They announced: \"Master Zuo, if you're in there, just come out; we won't hurt you.\" Then one of the sheep knelt down and spoke words, saying, \"Who would have thought I'd be pardoned?\" When the pursuers tried to seize that one sheep, all of the other sheep knelt down and said, \"Who would have thought I'd be pardoned?\" So the pursuers [gave up and] left. (tr. Campany 2002: 280-281) \n\nLater on, someone learned Zuo Ci's whereabouts and informed Cao Cao, he once again sent soldiers who captured him. Although Zuo could have escaped, he deliberately allowed himself to be arrested in order to demonstrate his divine transformations. \nHe was taken into prison. When the guards there were ready to torture and interrogate him, there was one Zuo inside the cell door and another Zuo outside it, and they did not know which one to torture. When Cao was informed, he despised Zuo even more, and ordered that he be taken out of the city and killed. As they were taking him out of the city, Zuo suddenly vanished. So they locked the city gates and searched for him. It was announced that [they were searching for a man who] was blind in one eye and wearing a linen cloth wrapped on his head and a one-layer gown. The moment this announcement was made, the entire city full of people, numbering several tens of thousands, all turned into men blind in one eye wearing a linen cloth on their head and a one-layer gown. So in the end they did not know which one to seize. Cao then put out an all-points order that Zuo Ci was to be killed on sight. Someone saw and recognized Zuo, so they beheaded him and presented [the head] to Cao. Cao was overjoyed. When he inspected the head, however, it turned out to be only a bundle of straw. When someone went back to search for Zuo's corpse, it had vanished. (tr. Campany 2002: 281) \nSpecifically, the one-eyed men all wore \"qing gejin danyi\" 青葛巾單衣 \"a green kudzu-cloth headwrap and an unlined garment\". Zuo Ci used what was later called \"bingjie\" 兵解 \"escape by execution\", an uncommon form of \"shijie\" \"escape by means of a simulated corpse\", and the \"Baopuzi\" says, \"Zuo Ci performed 'martial escape' [\"bingjie\" 兵解] but did not die\" (tr. Campany 2002: 286, cf. Ware 1966: 208).\n\nThird, the \"Shenxian zhuan\" has a detailed biography of Ge Xuan (164–244), who was the great-uncle of the compiler Ge Hong, that mentions \"fenxing\". The first line states that Ge Xuan was a student of Zuo Ci who gave him the alchemical \"Scripture on the Elixirs of the Nine [Tripods]\" and the \"Scripture on the Elixir of Gold Liquor\".\nA narrative about Ge Xuan entertaining visitors, compare Zhang Daoling above, mentions body division.\nGe Xuan often entertained guests. He would go out to welcome the latecomers, while, meantime, seated and talking with the other guests was another Ge Xuan. When sending guests off, he did the same thing. [Once] when the weather was cold Ge told his guests, \"It is impossible in my humble abode for each of you to have his own fire, but I invite you to warm yourselves in common.\" He then opened his mouth and exhaled flames, which quickly filled the room. All of the guests felt as if they were under a bright sun, but neither were they too warm. (tr. Campany 2002: 154) \nFourth, the hagiography of Ji Liao 薊遼 or Ji Zixun 薊子訓 records that he was famous for his paranormal abilities, including bringing back to life a dead child who Ji had accidentally killed. Many aristocrats in the capital of Chang'an wanted to meet Ji Zixun, and when they learned that Ji's young next-door neighbor was a student at the Imperial Academy, they promised that if he could get Ji to come to the capital, they would ensure that the student passed his exams and would become a wealthy official. Ji Zixun agreed in order to help his neighbor and gave a day when he would come to Chang'an. On that day, Ji left in the morning and arrived at the capital before noon, having traveled over a thousand \"li\" (\"Chinese miles\") in a few hours, he then asked the student,\n\"So, who wants to see me?\" \"A great many people want to see you, Master,\" said the student. \"We don't want to keep them waiting. Just let me know where you'll be staying, and I'll see that they all come to you.\" Ji replied, \"They don't need to come here. I've just traveled a thousand \"li\"; don't you think we can manage this? Tell each of them today to start preparing for a guest. I will set out at noon and will decide at the last minute whom I shall visit first.\" The student, as instructed, relayed this message to the notables, each of whom sprinkled and swept his chambers. Precisely at noon, Ji Zixun went to each one of the twenty-three places in question. There were twenty-three Ji's, one at each residence. Each of the notables was delighted, thinking that he was the first to have been visited by Ji. When they met the next day, as arranged, to compare experiences, they realized that they had each simultaneously had a Ji Zixun in their home. The clothing and countenance of each one was the same; only their discourse was different, depending on what questions each host had asked the guest to answer. Furthermore, each host had laid out food and drink for Ji, and he had partaken of them with complete appropriateness at each place. People near and far were astonished by this. (tr. Campany 2002: 170) \nAlthough the aristocrats clamored to see more of Ji he was not interested and said he was going to leave.\nJust after he had cleared the gate, the lane outside was clogged with a crowd of notables arriving there. The student said to them, \"He has just left. He will be the one heading east, riding a gray mule.\" At this, each of them spurred his horse to chase after Ji. From a distance it appeared that the mule was sauntering along at a leisurely pace, but none of the horses could catch up to him. This went on for half a day, with the distance between them always holding steady at about one \"li\". In the end none of them could catch up, so they quit and returned home. (tr. Campany 2002: 170) \nCalling this account of Ji Zixun escaping astride his slow mule \"a fine narrative expression of the near-yet-far, accessible-yet-not quality of the transcendent and his arts\", Campany says \"his feat of body division\" (\"fenxing\" or \"fenshen\") multilocality is one of the most vivid depictions of this art\" in the \"Shenxian zhuan\" (2002: 171).\n\nFifth, the later-attested hagiography for Yuzi 玉子 Jade Master includes \"fenxing\" in a list of supernatural abilities.\nHe was thoroughly versed in the meanings of the Five Phases, using them to nourish his nature; cure illnesses; dispel misfortune; instantly call forth wind, clouds, thunder, and rain; and change plants, rocks, and pottery into domestic animals, dragons, and tigers. He could divide his form so as to become several hundred thousand at once [分形為數百千人], and he could walk on rivers and seas. By spitting out water, he could form pearls and jades, and they would not revert [to water]. He could make horses from balls of mud, and they would go a thousand \"li\" in a day. (tr. Campany 2002: 370) \n\nIn Daoist hagiographies, adepts who have mastered \"bianhua\" \"transformation; metamorphosis\" are portrayed as autonomously free from normal spatiotemporal limitations. Isabelle Robinet describes this transcendent state as possessing \"the gift of ubiquity, [\"fenxing\"], which literally means to divide the body into many parts\" (1979: 48-49).\n[T]hrough \"body division\" (\"fenshen\" 分身), they are able to be at several places at once, they disappear at will, they transform their appearance into that of other persons or species, pass through walls and rocks, slip into tiny spaces as well as across dimensions of time, enter water without getting wet and pass through fire without burning, walk on water, secure fruit out of season, and magically produce foods, water sources, and fire. (Campany 1996: 303) \nThe above textual examples have mentioned several techniques for obtaining the faculty of body division, and later texts give many others.\n\nThe \"Baopuzi\" describes two methods for dividing oneself (Robinet 1979: 49). Zuo Ci, Ji Liao, and Ge Xuan used the Guarding the [Mysterious] One method that requires ritual fasting and purification before learning how to envision oneself into three selves, and then up to several dozen. By simultaneously practicing the Guarding the Mysterious One and Bright Mirror methods, an adept can multiply their body into dozens of selves, and if one wants to communicate with the gods, one needs to consume Gold Liquor and multiply the body by making one's three \"hun\" and seven \"po\" souls appear.\n\nFour of the five \"Shenxian zhuan\" hagiographies concerning body division also mention using \"waidan\" alchemical elixirs: Zhang Daoling, Zuo Ci, Ge Xuan, and Yuzi. According to Daoist legends, these masters of body division most commonly split into around two dozen duplicate selves; Zhang and Ge both used \"fenshen\" or \"fenxing\" for entertaining all their guests, and Ji Liao simultaneously appeared at twenty-three places. The highest number of duplications is ascribed to Yuzi who was supposedly able to divide himself into several hundred thousand Yuzis. Zuo Ci was the most famous master of body division, he shapeshifted into a sheep, divided into at least two identical selves, and simultaneously transformed himself and tens of thousands of city residents into identical one-eyed men wearing a green kudzu-cloth head wrap and an unlined garment.\n\nIn contrast to early \"fenshen\" and \"fenxing\" techniques based upon laboratory \"waidan\" external alchemy, many later methods involved meditational \"neidan\" internal alchemy. The c. 1029 \"Yunji Qiqian\" Daoist encyclopedia gives methods for creating a \"yingren\" 影人 \"shadow person\" human simulacrum by means of mental concentration. Such figures, only several inches tall, are substitutes for the adept, and act as representatives who roam the heavens in order to secure beneficial influences for the adept. The 12th-century \"Daoshu\" 道樞 Pivot of the Dao compendium refers to a method of the \"ancient sages\" that enables one to \"fenxing\" divide the body by gazing at one's shadow [分形散影], as well as by gazing at one's reflection in a metal or water mirror. Other methods consist of envisioning oneself, or one's distinctive \"hun\" soul, entering the Palace of the Taiji Supreme Ultimate or ascending into the heavens accompanied by the three divinities of the Dantian, or else fusing with the Taiyi Supreme One. In their exercises, the Daoists \"divide their bodies into a thousand persons, pace the void and go where they will\" (\"Taidan yinshu\" 太丹隱書), \"divide their breaths and expand their bodies\" (\"Yuanshi bianhua baozhen shangjing\" 上清原始變化寶真上經), and \"divide their light into a thousand bodies\" (\"Shenzhou qizhuan qibian wutian jing\" 神州七轉七變舞天經) (tr. Robinet 1979: 49-50).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47222418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47222418", "title": "Forshang", "text": "Forshang\n\nForshang Buddhism is the revelation of Buddha-Nature, founded by the Venerable Master Miao Kung Bodhisattva and succeeding Master Yuan Dao Bodhisattva in the early stage of the Republic of China, revering Da Zi Zai Wang Fo (the origin of Buddha-Nature) as the Originator. Yuan Dao Bodhisattva was initiated at the age of 14, after twenty years of unrelenting dedication, he became enlightened in 1956, wholeheartedly preaching the Forshang Buddhism doctrines to the full extent ever since. Before passing into Nirvana on August 11, 1993, he chose among disciples around the world Sun-Don Lee as the successor and appointed him as the Master of the third generation.\n"}
{"id": "34227860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34227860", "title": "Francisco del Castillo Andraca", "text": "Francisco del Castillo Andraca\n\nFrancisco del Castillo O.Merced or Francisco del Castillo Andraca (1716–1770) was a Peruvian poet, writer and priest of the Order of Mercy. Not to be confused with his namesake Francisco del Castillo SJ ( Jesuit of the seventeenth century), also from Lima.\n\nBlind from birth, he was known as \"El Ciego de La Merced\" (The Blind Man from Mercy), and was a talented poet who combined wit and humor in his verses. Ricardo Palma would make a short biography of him (with some poems included), in his \"Peruvian Traditions\".\n"}
{"id": "5860397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5860397", "title": "Gurdwaras in Africa", "text": "Gurdwaras in Africa\n\nThis is a list of gurdwaras in Africa. A gurdwara is a place of worship in Sikhism. It is a place where Sikhs can gather to hear devotional hymns and recital from the Guru Granth Sahib - the Sikh holy book.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3932010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3932010", "title": "Hinduism in India", "text": "Hinduism in India\n\nHinduism is the largest religion in India, with 79.8 % of the population identifying themselves as Hindus, that accounts for 1.2 billion Hindus in India as of National Census of India, while 14.2% of the population follow Islam and the remaining 6% adhere to other religions (such as Christianity, Sikhism, Buddhism, Jainism, various indigenous ethnically-bound faiths, Atheism and Irreligion). The vast majority of Hindus in India belong to Shaivite and Vaishnavite denominations. India is one of the three countries in the world (Nepal and Mauritius being the other two) where Hinduism is the majority.\n\nThe Vedic culture developed in India between 1500 BCE and 500 BC. As a consequence, Hinduism, considered to be the successor of Vedic religion, has had a profound impact on India's history, culture and philosophy. The name \"India\" itself is derived from Greek Ἰνδία for \"Indus\", which is derived from the Old Persian word \"Hindu\", from Sanskrit \"Sindhu\", the historic local appellation for the Indus River. Another popular alternative name of India is \"Hindustān\", meaning the \"land of \"Hindus\"\".\n\nIndia saw the rule of both Hindu and Muslim rulers from c. 1200 to 1750 CE. The fall of Vijayanagar Empire to Muslim rulers had marked the end of Hindu dominance in the Deccan. Hinduism once again rose to political prestige, under the Maratha Empire.\n\nIn response to the high rate of religious conversions during the Muslim Mughal and Christian British rule, Hinduism in India and abroad (such as Fiji, Mauritius, Africa, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, and Suriname) underwent a series of reforms, the spearheading organisations being Brahmo Samaj, Arya Samaj. Religious leaders like Swami Vivekananda, Dayananda Saraswati, Ram Mohan Roy, Sri Aurobindo and political leaders like Gandhi called for reform and complete turnover of the social structuring. One example of such reform is when the Hindu body began in 1915. This led to a launch of the shuddhi and sangathan on a large scale in 1923. This is when one of the many movements of reform began when the militant Muslim population poised to wipe out the Hindus and their culture. At this time, the Hindu population was the creation of urban, educated, middle-class leaders. Thus, the sense of religious caste and community identity was far more widespread than ever. The Shuddhi movement stated that anyone who was not Hindu was to convert, and through the Shuddhi movement came the Sangathan movement, a purity movement, which took action against those who were non-Hindu. As northern India was becoming more colonial, the British image of masculinity was projected throughout the different Indian communities. Hinduism was in between what it once was and what others were trying to transform it to be, the new Hindu image was intended to portray a man who could add strength to the community. The Shuddhi and Sangathan programs were launched in 1923 by Arya Samaj and the Hindu Mahasabha, and was intended to combat the growing Muslim population who were trying to remove the Hindus. There were many fights between the Hindus and Muslims as well as abuse toward the Hindu women. These are some of the drivers of the Hindu campaign to \"reclaim the victims and protect the faithful\" (Gupta). With this new system, the Muslims who were to be converted to Hindus would be put in the same caste system as before with no way of moving up, this caused a struggle between groups. This movement grew quickly for it emphasised the ideal of Hindu masculinity. Through this campaign, the Hindu people were feared and respected and no longer seen as cowardly or helpless. Shuddhi and Sangathan represented the idea that masculinity was restored, and Hinduism would thrive with Shuddhi practices and return power to the Hindu male. Although the Hindu males were gaining more power, they were also illustrating more negative male violence. In 1923, multiple Hindu-Muslim riots broke out to gain the province of India. After the riots broke out, Hindu organizations attained a new importance and conversions were then challenged in an organised manner. Tulsidas, Sant Kabeer Das, Raidas, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu etc. were pioneer of the bhakti movement for the social reformation.\n\nIndia saw Muslim and later European rule; yet the country remains dominated by Hindus. This religion varies from Monotheism, Polytheism, Pantheism, Atheism and other tendencies, so considering another conception of God another form or avatar of the ultimate reality or creator is certainly possible.\n\nAnother reason could be like Buddhism, Hinduism is an ancient religion (the most ancient religion in the world, as a matter of fact) with well-established traditions that cut deeply into Indian daily life. Unlike indigenous American or African religions, which vary from tribe to tribe, these Indian religions spread across the vast entity that was the Indian subcontinent, generally accepted by a majority of Indian ethnic and tribal groups. Hindu civilisation had a long history on its own, with well developed scriptures and traditions. It would be much more difficult to convert members of a religion that was accredited with defining a civilisation than would be tribal peoples.\n\nHindu nationalism was promoted by Hindus like:\n\nThe 1947 Partition of India gave rise to bloody rioting and indiscriminate inter-communal killing of Hindus, Muslims, and Sikhs. Around 7.5 million Muslims were forced out and left for West Pakistan and East Pakistan (now known as Bangladesh) and 7.2 million Hindus moved to India. This was a major factor in fueling Hindu-Muslim animosity. What followed over the years was the laying of secular principles in the Indian Constitution. The last 60 years have been seemingly peaceful in most parts of the country except with the notable exception of communal riots in 1992 Bombay riots following the demolition of Babri mosque by extremists and 2002 Gujarat riots and the wars fought against Pakistan.\n\nChristian missionary groups from the West seek to convert the populace, Muslim, Sikh, and Hindu, to Christianity, often combined with external aid, education and medical care which Hindu nationalists have seen as an inducement or bribe, and thus have been at loggerheads with right wing Hindu groups.\n\nKerala, Andhra Pradesh, and the Northeast of India are some of the regions where conversion is prevalent. In response to the activities of Christian missionaries in India, the hardline Hindu groups like Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) have aggressively started reconversion of converted Christians as well as Muslims back to Hinduism. The Hindus still form the majority community in most states and territories of the country. Most of the northern and north-western India, especially Gujarat remains the stronghold of Hinduism. There is even reason to believe that Hinduism is growing through the incorporation of tribal belief-systems in specific areas of the northeast. However, in the Kashmir Valley, the Hindu population has plummeted as an outcome of the terrorism when more than 550,000 members of Kashmiri Pandits (Hindus) were forced to leave the valley (mass exodus) by Pakistani militants. Pakistan sponsored the militants attempt to overtake Kashmir from Indian rule in line with presumably the majority Muslim population's desire for independence, which was expressed at independence but overruled by the ruling Hindu Maharajah and the British during partition. In Punjab, the Sikhs form the majority population.\n\nThe Hindu percentage has steadily decrease from 84.1% in 1951 to 79.8% in 2011 respectively. After India got independence Hindu percentage in the country stands at 85% approximately during 1947. India around that time have 350 million population out of which 300 million are Hindus. Today , in 2011 India has around 1.02 billion Hindus out of 1.2 billion people.\n\nThe Hindu population of India according to the official 2011 census is given below. Most drastic decrease in 1991-2001 period is observed in Manipur, from 57% to 52%, where there has been a resurgence of the indigenous Sanamahi religion. Of the one billion Hindus in India, it is estimated that Hindu Forward caste comprises 26%, Other Backward Class comprises 43%, Hindu Scheduled Castes (Dalits) comprises 22% and Hindu Scheduled Tribes (Adivasis) comprises 9%. Except for Punjab (Sikh majority), Kashmir (Muslim majority), parts of North-East India and Lakshadweep (UT), the other 24 Indian states and 6 union territories have an overwhelming majority of Hindus. Out of the 8 states of Northeast India, Tripura, Sikkim, Assam, Manipur are Hindu majority while the rest four have Hindus in minority. For more detailed figures from 2011 census, see this table.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34030990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34030990", "title": "Home of Truth", "text": "Home of Truth\n\nThe Home of Truth is a New Thought denomination founded in San Francisco, California founded by Annie Rix Militz.\n\nIn 1887, Annie Rix Milnz attended a class led by Emma Curtis Hopkins in her home city of San Francisco. Applying her metaphysical teachings, Rix cured her own chronic headaches and deafness in one ear. Soon after she founded a New Thought bureau with classes, a bookstore, and more. Rix soon married and started traveling the country; the San Francisco center was operated by her sister, Harriet Hale Rix.\n\nIn the 1890s the bureau was renamed the \"Home of Truth\", and by 1903 there were eight Homes of Truth in the United States. The Homes of Truth attracted an almost exclusively female following.\n\nThe denomination published \"Master Mind\" magazine from 1911 to 1933.\n"}
{"id": "34227164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34227164", "title": "Hope Gill", "text": "Hope Gill\n\nGill was born into an ecclesiastical family on 11 February 1861 and educated at St Edmund’s School in Canterbury, King William’s College on the Isle of Man and Queens' College, Cambridge. He was ordained in 1865 and began his career as a curate at St Peter’s, Tynemouth. Later he was a CMS Missionary at Shikarpur and then Jabalpur. From 1898 until his elevation to the Episcopate he was its Secretary in India.\n\nOn his return to Europe he was Vicar of Gerrard's Cross and then British Chaplain at Hyères. He died on 29 June 1946.\n"}
{"id": "4038166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4038166", "title": "Imitation of Christ", "text": "Imitation of Christ\n\nIn Christian theology, the Imitation of Christ is the practice of following the example of Jesus. In Eastern Christianity the term Life in Christ is sometimes used for the same concept.\n\nThe ideal of the Imitation of Christ has been an important element of both Christian ethics and spirituality. References to this concept and its practice are found in the earliest Christian documents, e.g. the Pauline Epistles.\n\nSaint Augustine viewed the imitation of Christ as the fundamental purpose of Christian life, and as a remedy for the imitation of the sins of Adam. Saint Francis of Assisi believed in the physical as well as the spiritual imitation of Christ, and advocated a path of poverty and preaching like Jesus who was poor at birth in the manger and died naked on the cross. Thomas à Kempis, on the other hand, presented a path to \"The Imitation of Christ\" based on a focus on the interior life and withdrawal from the world.\n\nThe theme of imitation of Christ existed in all phases of Byzantine theology, and in the 14th-century book \"Life in Christ\" Nicholas Cabasilas viewed \"living one's own personal life\" in Christ as the fundamental Christian virtue.\n\nThe word \"imitate\" does not appear in the Canonical Gospels, but the word \"follow\" is often applied to those who believed in Jesus, and Jesus is quoted as requiring imitation in some form (; ; ). But in Apostle Paul refers to the imitation of Christ, as well as himself, and states: \"And ye became imitators of us, and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Spirit\". Similarly, in , Apostle Peter explains the duty of Christians to \"follow his [Christ's] steps\".\n\nFor Paul the \"imitation of Christ\" involves readiness to be shaped by the Holy Spirit as in and , and a self-giving service of love to others as in and . The imitation of Christ, as in is then viewed by Paul as a path to the imitation of God: \"Be ye therefore imitators of God, as beloved children, and walk in love, even as Christ also loved you\".\n\nThe early Church had little interest in the \"historical Jesus\" and this prevented an immediate development of the concept of \"literal imitation\". Instead the earliest concepts of imitation focused on the works of the Holy Spirit, self-sacrifice and martyrdom. In time, this focus changed, and by the time of Saint Francis of Assisi attempts at literal imitation of Christ were well established.\n\nBy the 4th century, the ideal of the imitation of Christ was well accepted and for Saint Augustine, it was the ultimate goal of conversion, and the fundamental purpose of Christian life.\n\nBook 7 of the \"Confessions of St. Augustine\" includes a well known passage on \"at least imitate the lowly God\" that confirms the strong Christian tradition of the imitation of Christ around the year 400. Augustine viewed human beings as creatures who approach the Holy Trinity through likeness, i.e. by imitating the Son, who is bound to the Father through the grace of the Holy Spirit. Thus for Augustine, the imitation of Christ is enabled by the Spirit who confers God's grace. Augustine viewed Christ as both a sign of grace and an example to be followed, and in his later writings stated that the imitation of Christ leads to a mystical union with him.\n\nBy the end of the 9th century, the physical imitation of Christ had grown in popularity among Christians and the 895 Council of Tribur considered triple immersion in Baptism as an imitation of the three days of Jesus in the tomb, and the rising from the water as an imitation of the Resurrection of Jesus. This period also witnessed a growing trend towards the denial of the flesh in favor of the soul among the monastic communities, who saw the rebuffing of the physical body (as an imitation of the sufferings of Christ) as a path to a higher level of spiritual achievement.\nIn the 12th century, Saint Bernard of Clairvaux considered humility and love as key examples of the imitation of Christ. Bernard argued that the Father sent his Son, who in turn sent the Spirit to the Church, and that those who, in imitation of Christ, humble themselves and serve the Church will obtain intimate union with God.\n\nEarly in the 13th century, groups of mendicant friars entered the scene, aiming to imitate Christ by living a life of poverty as well as preaching, as Jesus had done, and following him to martyrdom, if necessary. Chief among these were the followers of Saint Francis of Assisi, who believed in the physical as well as the spiritual imitation of Christ. Francis viewed poverty as a key element of the imitation of Christ who was \"poor at birth in the manger, poor as he lived in the world, and naked as he died on the cross\". Francis also drew attention to the poverty of the Virgin Mary, and viewed that as a noble imitation. He was also the first reported case of stigmata in the history of Christianity, and reportedly viewed his stigmata as a key element of his imitation of Christ.\n\nLater in the 13th century, Saint Thomas Aquinas (who advocated the Perfection of Christ) considered imitation of Christ essential for a religious life. In Summa Theologiæ 2.2.186.5 Aquinas stated that \"Religious perfection consists chiefly in the imitation of Christ\" and in 3.65.2 he positioned the \"perfection of the spiritual life\" as an imitation of Christ, with Baptism as the first step in the path towards the imitation of a perfect Christ.\n\nThe theme of imitation of Christ continued to exist in all phases of Byzantine theology, although some Eastern theologians such as Nicholas Cabasilas preferred to use the term \"Life in Christ\", as in his 14th-century book of the same title. Cabasilas advocated \"living one's own personal life\" in Christ as a fundamental Christian virtue. Cabasilas also believed that the Eucharist forms the new life in Christ.\n\nIn the highly influential book \"The Imitation of Christ\" first issued in 1418, Thomas à Kempis provided specific instructions for imitating Christ. His book is perhaps the most widely read Christian devotional work after the Bible. The approach taken by Kempis is characterized by its emphasis on the interior life and withdrawal from the world, as opposed to an active imitation of Christ (including outward preaching) by other friars. The book places a high level of emphasis on the devotion to the Eucharist as key element of spiritual life.\n\nThe Reformation saw a multi-directional shift in focus on the concept of imitation. In the 16th century, Martin Luther initially made the connection between Baptism and imitation even stronger. But in time Luther came to dislike the term imitation, and preferred the term \"conformation\", seeing imitation as an attempt to conceal a doctrine on the \"works of Christ\". However John Calvin gave a prominent place to the imitation of Christ in his writings and worked out the ideal of a \"mystical union\" with Christ in a way that resonated with the New Testament.\n\nBut the 16th century also witnessed a continuing interest in the imitation of Christ. Saint Ignatius of Loyola continued to advocate the path towards imitation and encouraged a sense of \"being with Christ\" and experiencing his humanity, e.g. in his Spiritual Exercises he asks the participant to imagine being in Calvary at the foot of the Cross, communing with Jesus on the Cross.\n\nThe concept of the imitation of Christ has had a Christological context and implications from the very early days of formalized Christian theology. In the context of the Person of Christ the belief in Monophysitism, which asserted only one divine nature for Christ with no human nature ran against the ideal that humans could imitate him. Those issues were mostly resolved, however, as Monophysitism was declared heretical by the Western Church and much of the Eastern Church.\n\nThe acceptance of a human (as well as a divine) nature for Christ by many Christians allowed the pursuit of the goal of the imitation of Christ, but with the realizations that it had inherent limits, e.g. that Christ's death in obedience to the will of the Father had a redemptive value beyond human potential.\n\nWhile Western Christology of the \"imitation of Christ\" has had a focus on the sacrifice at Calvary, that has not been the main theme in the Eastern Church where the term \"life in Christ\" has been used and the key focus has been the Transfiguration of Jesus. No saints in the Eastern Church have reported signs of stigmata, but saints in the Eastern Church have frequently reported being transformed by the \"inward light\" of uncreated grace.\n\nA further Christological issue that differentiates the Eastern and Western approaches is that the Eastern approach sees the Father as the sole hypostatic source of the Holy Spirit. Thus in contrast to Augustine and Aquinas, Eastern Christology does not see the Holy Spirit as the bond of love between the Father and the Son and hence the imitation of the Son does not have the same implications in terms of a unity with the Father.\n\n"}
{"id": "54323331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54323331", "title": "Jewish Cemetery Chennai", "text": "Jewish Cemetery Chennai\n\nThe Jewish Cemetery is located off Lloyd's Road in Chennai, India. The cemetery remains the only memoir of the once significant Jewish population of Chennai, which has now almost become extinct. Burials include the tombstones of 18th century Jewish diamond merchants.\n\nThe cemetery houses less than 10 graves, of which a few are over 300 years old. \n\nThe cemetery is located on a poor market area of the road west of the Marina Fish Market, and is adjacent to Chinese and Bahai cemeteries. The cemetery formerly used to have an iron gate on which a plaque was attached on which a Star of David and the words \"Jewish Cemetery\" were inscribed. After the renovation around 2016, these doors were replaced with sturdier ones. Before the renovation, the cemetery had been reported to be in a state of severe disrepair – with rusted iron gates, partially grown shrubs and cracked walls. People in the surrounding area were oblivious to the existence and historical importance of the cemetery. Even now, it tends to have few visitors.\n\nThe cemetery was established by Jacques (Jaime) de Paivia, a Portuguese Paradesi Jew, involved in diamond trade. He was buried in the cemetery upon his death in 1687.\n\nThe cemetery was originally located along with a synagogue at the northern end of Mint Street, in Peddanaickenpet. To make space for the construction of a municipal school by the state government, it was shifted to Kasimedu. It was further shifted in 1983 due to the Madras harbour expansion project to its present location, on the land allotted by the Port Trust.\n\nThe original cemetery had four tombstones, three of which were shifted to the current location. The tombstone of Jacques de Paivia was supposedly destroyed; for it is not found at Lloyd's Road cemetery. According to another source, however, there were 25 tombstones in the original cemetery at Mint Street, but when shifted out the second time in 1983, only 8 remained. \n\nThe last burial in the cemetery was in 1997, of Eileen Joshua – wife of Isaac Joshua, president of the Madras Jewish Association. Since then, the cemetery has been under the care of the Joshua family.\n\nTwo walls of the cemetery came down during the Cyclone Nilam in 2012. The cost for repair was projected to be $2070. As of 2016, the cemetery had recently undergone renovation, and the walls were re-erected. The walls were painted blue and raised to avoid trespassers and dog menace.\n"}
{"id": "25921190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25921190", "title": "List of Armenian churches in Iran", "text": "List of Armenian churches in Iran\n\nThis is a list of Armenian churches in Iran. Today there are more about 200 Armenian temples in modern Iran territory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1045082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1045082", "title": "List of Christian preachers", "text": "List of Christian preachers\n\nMost members of the Christian clergy and many lay people have been a preacher to the unconverted. This is an incomplete list of people known for their preaching including their published sermons. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6900335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6900335", "title": "List of Sikhs", "text": "List of Sikhs\n\nSikh ( or ; , ' ) is the title and name given to an adherent of Sikhism. The term has its origin in the Sanskrit term ', meaning \"disciple, learner\" or \"\", meaning \"instruction\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "275487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275487", "title": "List of mosques", "text": "List of mosques\n\nThis is an incomplete list of some of the more famous mosques around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "8978651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8978651", "title": "List of mosques in Europe", "text": "List of mosques in Europe\n\nThis is a partial list of mosques in Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10334922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10334922", "title": "Meivazhi", "text": "Meivazhi\n\nMeivazhi - The True Path () is a syncretic monotheistic religion based in Tamil Nadu, India. Its focus is spiritual enlightenment and the conquering of death, through the teachings and example of its founder and leader, Brahma Prakasa Meivazhi Salai Andavargal, believed to be the final incarnation of God expected by all religious holy scriptures and was said to be over 120 years old. It was started in the year 1900. It has its own set of holy scriptures that runs up to four volumes, along with a unique prayer system and festivals. Although its founder was born to a Muslim family, it draws strongly from Hinduism. Mevaizhi preaches the message, \"oneness of essence\" of all the previous major scriptures like Shaivism, Vaishnavism, Buddhism, Zoroastrianism, Islam, Judaism, Christianity, etc. and allows membership irrespective of caste, creed, colour or religion. The only requirement for being a follower of Meivazhi is to be a believer in God. Meivazhi has an ashram in Pudukkottai district, Tamil Nadu called as the Meivazhi Salai. Its official liturgical language is Tamil. The religion forbids smoking, alcohol, gambling, and theft, and practices vegetarianism. Its male followers are seen to be often clad in white panchakacham and a pointed turban. The followers who had received spiritual blessings (Tamil: உபதேசம்) directly from Salai Aandavargal, wear saffron clothing and additionally, have an upward-pointing crescent moon symbol called as 'Kilnaamam' (Tamil: கிள்நாமம்) on their turban.\n\nThe followers of the Meivazhi religion believe, the person who founded the Meivazhi religion to be the Kalki, the final incarnation of Lord Vishnu as mentioned in Hinduism and also the Second Coming of God's incarnation on this Earth as mentioned in various other religions. The followers of this religion address the founder as \"Salai Aandavargal\". The main source of the early life and history of Salai Aandavargal are mostly extracted from the Meivazhi scriptures written by the early followers of the religion and also from contents written by Salai Aandavargal himself.\n\n\"Aadhi Maanmiyam (Tamil: ஆதி மாண்மியம்)\", one of the volumes of Meivazhi scriptures, narrates the real name, early life and experiences of Salai Andavargal. According to the scripture, Aandavargal was born in 1857 at Markampatti, a village in Oddanchatram Taluk, Dindigul district, Tamil Nadu. He was named Khader Badsha Rowther by his parents - his father being Jamal Hussain Rowther and mother Periya Thayi. He had his primary education in the village elementary school and followed the profession of his father as an agriculturist. As a youth, he had a keen interest in spirituality. He met many false gurus and initially believed that hatha yoga was the only way to achieve the highest spiritual realization. But he realized later that people were pretending to be saints for the sake of earning money and their own selfish purposes. He migrated to Kasukkaranpalayam, a village in Perundurai taluk, Erode in Tamil Nadu after his marriage to Suleka Bivi and worked as a wholesale paddy merchant. He had a daughter named Aisuamma and he almost gave up on spirituality. But It was during this period, that he met his satguru Shri Thanigai Mani Piran (real name is Mohamed Saligh also known as Pattaiyar), who was stated to be more than 2000 years old and who revealed to Salai Aandavargal about his true form. Shri Thanigai Mani Piran also was the teacher of Ramalinga Swamigal. He baptized Salai Aandavargal through Brahmopadhesam (Tamil: ப்ரஹ்மோபாதேசம்), the spiritual rebirth, at Kasukkaranpalayam, Erode. Thereafter, Salai Aandavargal followed his satguru all over South India, renouncing his profession, wife, children and everything to attain the highest spiritual enlightenment. When Aandavargal finished his travels with his guru, he was ordered to tend to a flock of sheep at Reddiyapatti village in Dindigul district for a year. This is celebrated annually as the \"Āṭu mēyppu tirukkōlak kāṭci\" (Tamil: ஆடு மேய்ப்பு திருக்கோலக் காட்சி) festival. The first meeting of Salai Andavargal and his guru is celebrated by the followers as a festival during pournami day of the Panguni month (April), as the \"Piṟavā nāḷ piṟappu tirunāḷ\" (Tamil: பிறவா நாள் பிறப்பு திருநாள்) festival.\n\nThereafter he was directed to observe severe Tapas in the cave on the western side of Thiruparankundram hill (near Madurai) which he carried out for many years the wakefulness and near starvation diet of Prickly pear. Thereby he acquired divine symbols (sannadams) in his sacred hand – such us Udukai, Trishula, Shankha, Sudarshana Chakra, Villu, Vaal, Gada (mace), Angusam, Paasam, Modhagam, Vel and finally the “Khill Namam\" (Crescent moon). The Crescent moon is the ultimate divine symbol, which is now used by his followers as their religion's righteous symbol. His holiness acquiring the holy symbol is commemorated by celebrating the festival of “Kodaayudha Sannathath Thirukkappu Kangganath Thirunall“ (Tamil: கோடாயுத சன்னதத் திருக்காப்பு கங்கநத் திருநாள்) in the month of Vaikasi (June).\n\nWhen the savant understood that his disciple Salai Andavargal is fully endowed with wit and power to commence his holy mission “Meivazhi”(True Path), he christened him “Maarganadhar” and departed from him after persuading Salai Andavargal to proceed forward alone in his holy mission.\n\nCladding himself in a saffron robe, Andavargal first preached to sanyasis and Saints, but thereupon he understood that most of the sanyasis were impostors not because of their ignorance but deliberation to loot innocent people’s money for satisfying their lust and hunger. Finally, Andavargal gave up the garb of sanyasi and took to preaching family people engaged in worldly occupations. Later at Tiruppattur in Sivaganga district, Tamil Nadu, he married Panimathi Nachiyar as per his Guru’s wish.\n\nIt is claimed that the Heavenly Tokens which distinguish Meivazhi Salai Andavargal from the mushrooms of impostors, masquerading as master all over the world, and identify him as the only true Master of the Age, are:\n\n\nAccording to Meivazhi, the true goal of a Human being is to find and reach God. As stated in several other religious scriptures, Man was created in Heaven, who was banished to Earth as punishment. Before the world ends, the Human soul should reach God or it will be dragged to Hell by Yama when the world ends. Those who have successfully reached God will reach Heaven. A sign that a Man has reached God is that the person's physical self will become incorruptible when he dies. The soul will rest within oneself during death and hence, the person shows signs of incorruptibility. Most people search for God in the skies, oceans, rocks and everywhere, failing to look within themselves and not realizing that God lies within themselves. When People die without fulfilling their most basic purpose of finding God within their lifetime, their soul leaves their physical selves in search of God everywhere else and will become lost. Eventually the body will decompose. The soul will be eventually either enslaved by Yama or reborn again on earth. But when their soul settles within themselves and reached God, the body will never decompose.\n\nThe Followers of Meivazhi believe that a person's attainment of Heaven or Hell can be ascertained by their body, by observing 10 signs after death showing Immortal Proofs of Salvation at the time of death, as said to be happening in Meivazhi, showing real majestic victory over the force of death:\n\nMeivazhi has its own Holy scriptures running up to four volumes in Tamil language.\n\n\nThe first Meivazhi Ashram was founded at Rajagambeeram village in Sivaganga district, Tamil Nadu. The second one was started at Tirupathur, a panchayat town in Sivaganga district, Tamil Nadu, where the Sabha was initially registered on 19 June 1933. From small beginnings, the number of followers gradually increased, year by year. By 1939, the sabha was shifted to Madurai (Aruppukottai Road). But in 1942, during the Second World War, the British Government acquired the entire place in Madurai and paid a compensation of Rs.1,37,750.00 to Meivazhi Sabha. Consequently, the sabha had to be shifted to a different place. In the same year, the sabha was shifted to a land at Pappancahivayal, Pudukkottai district, Tamil Nadu where Aandavargal purchased a jungle land for about Rs.6,000.00 and cleared it for habitation. The sabha was re-registered on 10 June 1944 in the, then Pudukkottai State, where it has been functioning ever since. This place is the present Meivazhi Salai. The Control of the Sabha was under Meivazhi Salai Aandavargal till 1976, after which he entered a very deep meditative state. The place where he started meditating has become a shrine for the followers of Meivazhi and is called as the \"Poṉṉaraṅka tēvālayam\" (Tamil: பொன்னரங்க தேவாலயம், meaning Golden Temple). All the Prayers, Rituals and Festivals are held around this Shrine.\n\nMeivazhi followers have a mandatory dress code for entering the ashram. Men who have received the upadhesam, the highest level of spiritual teaching (known as Anandars), wear saffron shirts and traditional Hindu panchakacham trousers. Males who have not received it wear white turbans and clothes other than saffron, and in dark colours. Women who have received upadhesam wear sarees and cover their head with a saffron scarf, while other women cover their head with the end of the sarees.\n\nDaily rituals at the Ponnaranga Devalayam takes place all over the day.\n\n1. Morning prayer at 4:00 AM and Vanakkam at 4:30 AM;\n\n2. Maha Sangarpa Manthiram at 7:00 AM;\n\n3. Aravala Vanakkam at 12:00 PM;\n\n4. Evening Vanakkam at 6:00 PM;\n\n5. Night Vanakkam at 9:00 PM, 12:00 AM, 1:30 AM, 3:00 AM;\n\n6. Para Vanakkam at 10.00 PM to 12.00 AM, 12.00 AM to 2.00 AM and 2.00 AM to 4.00 AM;\n\n1. Piravanal Pirappu Thirunal (in the month of Panguni) – The day of Spiritual rebirth of Andavargal\n\n2. Vaikaasi Thiruvizha – Tri-festivals\n\n3. Pichai Andavar Thirukkola Thiruvizha (in the month of Purattaasi)- Bestower of Alms\n\n4. Thiru Avathara Thirunal (at the end of Maargazhi and on Bhogi) The birth of Andavargal\n\n5. Kolari Salayar Pongal Festival in the month of Thai (Through holy water, disciples prepare sweet Pongal around Ponnaranga Devalayam) and Mattu Pongal (Cows and Bulls are decorated and fed with sweet Pongal. Also there will be Kolattam by young people and Kummy by Adult disciples around Flag post, singing Ponnaranga Kommi song)\n\n6. Karthigai Deepam (Festival of lights in the month of Karthikai)\n7. Flag Hoisting: In addition to Pooran kodi, a special flag having 92 bells will be hoisted at Panguni and Vaikaasi festivals. And the White flag, having the symbol of Killnaamam is hoisted twice a month, on the full moon day and on the third day of New Moon.\n\n"}
{"id": "404427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404427", "title": "Meritaten", "text": "Meritaten\n\nMeritaten, also spelled Merytaten or Meryetaten (14th century BC), was an ancient Egyptian royal woman of the Eighteenth dynasty. Her name means \"She who is beloved of Aten\", Aten being the sun-deity whom her father, Pharaoh Akhenaten, worshipped. She held several titles, performing official roles for her father and becoming the Great Royal Wife to Pharaoh Smenkhkare, who may have been a brother or son of Akhenaten. Meritaten also may have served as pharaoh in her own right under the name, Ankhkheperure Neferneferuaten.\n\nMeritaten was the first of six daughters born to Pharaoh Akhenaten and his Great Royal Wife, Nefertiti. Her sisters are Meketaten, Ankhesenpaaten, Neferneferuaten Tasherit, Neferneferure, and Setepenre. She was married to Pharaoh Smenkhare. \n\nInscriptions mention a young princess named Meritaten Tasherit, who may be the daughter of Meritaten and Smenkhare. Inscriptions from Ashmunein suggest that Meritaten-tasherit is the daughter of Meritaten. The scene dates to the reign of Akhenaten, and this means the father of the young princess could be Akhenaten. If so, this means Akhenaten took his own daughters as wives. Another princess named Ankhesenpaaten Tasherit had been suggested as an additional daughter of Meritaten, but it is more likely that she is a daughter of Ankhesenpaaten. \n\nMeritaten most likely was born in Thebes, early in her father's marriage to Nefertiti, perhaps before he assumed the throne, as she is shown officiating during year five of his reign. The royal family first lived in Thebes and the royal palace may have been part of the Temple Complex of Akhenaten at Karnak. The exact use of the buildings in Karnak is not known, but the scenes decorating the Teni-menu suggest it may have served as a residence. Meritaten is depicted beside her mother Nefertiti in reliefs carved into the \"Hut-Benben\". The Hut-Benben was a structure associated with Nefertiti, who is the main officiant in the scenes, the great royal wife being the highest priestess. Meritaten appears behind her mother shaking a sistrum. Her younger sisters Meketaten and Ankhesenpaaten also appear in some of the scenes, but not so often as Meritaten.\n\nIn year five of her father Akhenaten's reign, Meritaten appears on the boundary stelae designating the boundaries of the new capital to which her father moved the royal family and his administrators. During Akhenaten's reign, she was the most frequently depicted and mentioned of the six daughters. Her figure appears on paintings in temples, tombs, and private chapels. Not only is she shown among images showing the family life of the pharaoh, which were typical of the Amarna Period, but on those depicting official ceremonies, as well.\n\nThe two structures most associated with Meritaten at Amarna are the Northern Palace and the Maru-Aten. The Maru-Aten was located to the south of the city limits of Amarna. The structure consisted of two enclosures containing pools or lakes and pavilions set in an area planted with trees. An artificial island contained a pillared construction that held a painted pavement showing scenes from nature.\n\nMeritaten's name seems to replace that of another royal lady in several places, among them in the Northern Palace and in the Maru-Aten. This had been misinterpreted as evidence of Nefertiti's disgrace and banishment from the royal court but, more recently, the erased inscriptions turned out to be the name of Kiya, one of Akhenaten's secondary wives, disproving that interpretation.\n\nMeritaten is mentioned in diplomatic letters, by the name \"Mayati\". She is mentioned in a letter from Abimilki of Tyre. The reference usually is thought to date to the period when Meritaten's position at court became more important, during the latter part of the reign of Akhenaten. It is possible, however, that the letter refers to the birth of Meritaten.\n\nMeritaten appears as a Great Royal Wife in the tomb of Meryre II in Amarna. She is depicted alongside her husband, Pharaoh Ankhkheperure Smenkhare-djeserkheperu. The scene shows the royal couple bestowing honors and gifts on Meryre. The scene appears on the wall adjacent to the wall depicting the Durbar of year 12. Smenkhare may have served as a co-regent to Akhenaten. Meritaten was the Great Royal Wife to Smenkhare, while Nefertiti continued as the Great Royal Wife of Akhenaten. Nefertiti still held the Great Royal Wife title in year 16, hence Smenkhare must have been a co-regent at that time, or otherwise ruled with his wife Meritaten sometime after year 16 of Akhenaten.\n\nMeritaten is mentioned on gold daisies that decorated a garment found in Tutankhamen's tomb. She also is mentioned on a wooden box meant to contain linen garments. The box mentions two kings: Neferkheperure-Waenre (Akhenaten) and Ankhkheperure-mr-waenre, Neferneferuaten-mr-waenre and the Great Royal Wife Meritaten.\n\nAccording to some scholars, such as J.P. Allen, Ankhkheperure Smenkhkare ruled together with Meritaten, but in the year following Akhenaten's death, Smenkhkare died. The theory is, that Meritaten was the 'king's daughter' Akenkeres who is recorded in Manetho's Epitome to have assumed the throne next, in her own right as king and bearing the name Neferneferuaten. Neferneferuaten is assigned a reign of two years and one month and is placed in Manetho's account as the immediate predecessor of the king, \"Rathothis\", who is believed to be Tutankhamun, her half-brother by another, unnamed wife of Akhenaten. \n\nArchaeologist Alaine Zivie asserts that Meritaten also became a foster mother to Tutankhamun, who was referred to as, Maïa in some ancient records. Zivie noted that Thutmose, the sculptor appointed vizier by Akhenaten and who was found to be the creator of the famous bust of Nefertiti also created one of Maïa (Bubasteion I.20), the foster mother of Tutankhamun and who, in fact, was \"Merytaten, the elder daughter of Akhenaten\", \"who sat brieﬂy on the throne\".\n\nThe texts of its boundary stele mention that Meritaten was meant to be buried at Akhet-Aten (modern Amarna).\n\nThe royal tomb in Amarna was used for the burial of Meketaten, Tiye, and Akhenaten and likely, was closed after the death and burial of Akhenaten. After that, Meritaten's burial may have been planned for one of the other royal tombs in Amarna.\n\n"}
{"id": "4277393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4277393", "title": "Mike Rinder", "text": "Mike Rinder\n\nMichael John Rinder (; born 10 April 1955) is an Australian former senior executive of the Church of Scientology International (CSI) and the Sea Organization based in the United States. From 1982 to 2007 Rinder served on the Board of Directors of CSI and also held the post of Executive Director of its Office of Special Affairs, overseeing the corporate, legal and public relations matters of the Church at the international level. \n\nRinder left the Church in 2007 after becoming aware of the authoritarian \nand abusive nature of the senior management under David Miscavige. In 2016, he appeared in (and later co-hosted) the A&E documentary series \"\".\n\nRinder is an Australian national who joined the Sea Org on the ship \"Apollo\" at 18. In a 2006 interview with \"Rolling Stone\", Rinder said he had experienced discrimination in Australia during the period when the Australian state of Victoria had banned Scientology: \"You couldn't own Scientology books ... If you did, you had to hide them because if the police came and found them, they'd take them away.\"\n\nAs Executive Director of the Office of Special Affairs, he served as the chief spokesperson and representative of the Church to the media, until replaced by Tommy Davis in 2005 under orders from David Miscavige.\n\nIn March 2007, Rinder was sent as the international spokesman of the Church to defend Scientology from John Sweeney, who was filming a BBC documentary titled \"Scientology and Me\". Rinder defended Scientology leader David Miscavige, but Miscavige was unhappy with the documentary. As a result, Rinder \"was to report to the church's facility in Sussex, England, and dig ditches\" and then was to be allowed to return to the United States. Rinder instead decided to leave the church. Rinder went to Virginia and told the church he wanted to speak to his wife and also wanted his possessions. He did not speak to his wife, but was sent a FedEx package with a check for $5,000. His family photos were not sent. Rinder and his first wife, Cathy, divorced after 35 years. He and his second wife, Christie King Collbran, were married in 2013 and have a son. He has no contact with his two adult children from his first marriage. Rinder's official biography has since been removed from the official Church of Scientology website.\n\nIn 2009, \"St Petersburg Times\" asked Rinder for an interview, but he declined. Then a month later, two Washington-based Scientology lawyers went to his home unannounced, informed Rinder that they knew about the newspaper's visit and asked what he had revealed. Subsequently, he spoke to the \"Times\" about Scientology's management and repeated beatings he gave as well as received. The interviews became part of the paper's \"The Truth Rundown\" special issue. Rinder said he was speaking out because \"I don't want people to continue to be hurt and tricked and lied to.\"\n\nIn October 2009, Rinder and Marty Rathbun revealed to the \"St. Petersburg Times\" how Scientology silenced critics, such as Bob Minton, by digging into personal details and secretly recording conversations. Rinder told the \"Times\": \"There were things that, really, he was worried about and had caused problems for him in the investigation that we had done\" and Minton and the church reached a private settlement. Rinder considered Minton a friend at the time of Minton's death in January 2010.\n\nIn March 2010, Rinder again confirmed allegations of abuse within Scientology to CNN's Anderson Cooper on \"Anderson Cooper 360°\". Rinder did not speak on camera because he promised his first interview to the BBC.\n\nIn April 2010, Rinder, who lived in Clearwater, Florida for more than a year, went to meet his son who also lives in Clearwater, Florida but his son refused to see him. Rinder, Rathbun and two others were cited for trespassing by the Clearwater Police. A few days later, according to police reports: \"five senior members of its [Scientology's] California-based international management team — surrounded and screamed at [Rinder] a former church executive. At the time he was approached, Rinder was sitting in his car in a doctor's office parking lot during a phone interview with BBC journalist John Sweeney. The screaming was so loud, Sweeney was able to record the episode and later aired the recording on \"The Secrets of Scientology\" broadcast by the BBC series, \"Panorama\".\n\nOn 28 September 2010, Rinder appeared on \"The Secrets of Scientology\" broadcast by the BBC series, \"Panorama\". He discussed his life, losing his family, and behind-the-scenes activity in Scientology. The documentary claims that private auditing sessions are secretly recorded, including ones with secrets about Tom Cruise.\n\nRinder appears in the HBO documentary entitled \"Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief\" by Alex Gibney, which debuted at the Sundance Film Festival in January, 2015. The documentary is based on the book of a similar title by Lawrence Wright. Along with Leah Remini, Rinder co-hosts the A&E documentary series \"\".\n\nIn March 2018, Taryn Teutsch, daughter of Mike Rinder, launched a smear campaign against her father on the blog Justice4Mom.org. Taryn accused Rinder of assaulting her mother, Cathy Bernardini, and is rallying for him to get fired from his position at the show \"Leah Remini: Scientology and the Aftermath\". Rinder told journalist Tony Ortega that he believes the campaign was orchestrated by the Church of Scientology.\n\nRinder lived in Denver, Colorado until 2009. According to his blog, he has since lived in Palm Harbor, Florida with his wife and son.\n"}
{"id": "10785652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10785652", "title": "Miyamairi", "text": "Miyamairi\n\nMiyamairi (宮参り, literally \"shrine visit\") is a traditional Shinto rite of passage in Japan for newborns. Approximately one month after birth (31 days for boys and 33 days for girls), parents and grandparents bring the child to a Shinto shrine, to express gratitude to the deities for the birth of a baby and have a shrine priest pray for his or her health and happiness. The practice is similar to a Christian infant baptism.\n\nToday, most Miyamairi are practiced between one month and 100 days after birth. In famous and busy shrines, the ceremony is held every hour, often during weekends. A group of a dozen babies and their families are usually brought into the hall, one group after another. A Shinto priest wearing a costume and headgear appears between the group and the altar, reciting a prayer and swinging a tamagushi right and left. During the prayer, the priest cites the name of the baby, the names of the parents, the family's address, and the baby's birthday. Afterwards, the parents and grandparents come forward one by one, bow to the altar, and place tamagushis upon it.\n\nAt the end of the ceremony, sake in a red wooden cup is given to each person in attendance; small gifts are often given to the family.\n\nA shrine typically charges between ¥5,000 and ¥10,000 per baby for this ceremony.\n"}
{"id": "1564775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1564775", "title": "Mullá Hádí-i-Qazvini", "text": "Mullá Hádí-i-Qazvini\n\nMullá Hádí () was the fifteenth Letter of the Living in the Bábí movement and also the son of Mullá Abdu'l-Vahhab-i-Qazvíni who was a close companion of Shaykh Ahmad with whom he shared the message of fast approaching Revelation. Mullá Hádí was initially a Shaykhi a student of Siyyid Kázim. He did not get involved in the Battle of fort Shaykh Tabarsi and shielded his life through the practice of Taqiyya. He was also the brother of another letter of the living Mullá Muhammad-'Aliy-i-Qazvini.\n\nAfter the death of the Báb, the Bábís split into a number of factions one of which was led by Mullá Hádí. He later became a devout Azalí and was expelled from the community by Bahá'u'lláh during the Edirne period \"and spent his final days in oblivion\".\n\nMullá Hádí is a controversial Letter of the Living since it is not entirely clear that he was actually one. He is noted as absent in the list formed by Amanat [1987] and replaced by Mullá Muhammad-i-Mayáma'í. This is explained in a footnote that although he is included in Nabil's list provided in \"The Dawn-breakers\", the incomplete list provided by al-Karbalá'í al-Qatíl has Mullá Muhammad-i-Mayáma'í in his place. Qatíl described Mullá Hádí as \"in darkness\" in spite of his brother's vigour and the fact that in later years he never showed any serious interest in the movement. Mullá Muhammad-i-Mayáma'í's preaching in his home town of Mayámay gave him weight in Amanat's eyes.\n\n"}
{"id": "16657772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16657772", "title": "Narayan dynasty", "text": "Narayan dynasty\n\nThe Narayan dynasty was the ruling Bhumihar family of Benares. After the disintegration of the Mughal Empire in the 18th century, the family ruled Benares as tributories of the Nawab of Awadh and the East India Company. In 1911, Benares became a full-fledged princely state of British India, and the Narayan dynasty ruled it as British vassals until they acceded to independent India in 1948.\n\nEven today the Kashi Naresh, the titular ruler of the dynasty, is deeply revered by the people of Benares. He is the religious head and the people of Benares consider him the incarnation of Lord Shiva. He is also the chief cultural patron and an essential part of all religious celebrations.\n\nThe family tradition goes back to the year 1000, when a Brahmin ascetic of Utaria, a village near Benares, foretold the succession of his descendants to the dominions then governed by a Hindu raja.\n\nWith the decline of Mughal Empire, in the area south of Avadh, in the fertile riverain rice growing areas of Benares, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Ballia and Bihar and on the fringes of Bengal, it was the 'military' who strengthened their sway. What brought success to these Hindu princelings was the strong clan organisation on which they rested. There were perhaps as many as 100,000 Bhumihar clansmen backing the Benares rajas in what later became the districts of Benares, Gorakhpur and Azamgarh. This proved a decisive advantage when the dynasty faced its rival and nominal suzerain, the Nawab of Awadh, in the 1750s and the 1760s. Their support gave the Benares ruler the capacity to mount an exhausting guerrilla war against the Avadh camp using his Bhumihar clan levies which forced the Nawab to withdraw his main force.\n\nThe Royal House of Benares is of an ancient Gautam clan of Brahmin dating to the year 1000 that originated from Gangapur near Benares.\n\nIn the late 17th century, one Raja, Mansa Ram of this family entered the service of the \"Nazim\" of Benares, Rustam Ali Khan. He grew immensely powerful, fought many wars and rose to become \"Zamindar\" of Kaswar in the service of the \"Nazim\", recapturing the kingdom of his ancestors which had been lost to Muslim rulers. Appointed as successor to Rustam Ali Khan by the Nawab of Awadh, Saadat Khan, one year before his death in 1739. Impressed with his ability as an able administrator, Mohammed Shah the mughal emperor appointed him Raja and Nazim for the sarkars of Benares, Jaunpur, Ghazipur and Chunar to be held by his eldest son along with the title of Raja Bahadur of Kaswar.\n\nHis eldest son, Rafa'at wa Awal-i-Martabat Raja Sri Balwant Singh Sahib Bahadur, succeeded his father as Raja of Kaswar and Nazim of Benares in 1738. Leading a much more martial life, he built a fort and established a capital at Gangapur, but later moved to Ramnagar. In 1751, he expelled the representative of the Nawab of Awadh in an attempt to carve out a principality at Benares, but had to flee after a fierce fight when the Nawab invaded his domain in March 1752; a settlement was made between the two and he was restored to his titles by the Nawab. Emperor Alamgir II granted him a jagir in Bihar two years later. The first of his house to fight with the East India Company, he joined Shah Alam and Shuja ud-Daula in their 1763 invasion of Bengal. Following the Battle of Buxar in 1764, Emperor Shah Alam transferred Balwant Singh's zamindari to the Company, but the Company refused it along with the Treaty of Benares signed by the Emperor the same year. Instead, the zamindari reverted once again to the Nawab of Awadh in 1765, five years before Balwant Singh's death in 1770.\n\nBalwnt Singh's elder son, Rafa'at wa Awal-i-Martabat Raja Sri Chait Singh Sahib Bahadur, succeeded to the throne as the next Raja of Benares in 1770. Although the Nawab still wished to hold total suzerainty over the zamindari, the British authorities encouraged him to recognise Chait Singh as zamindar in 1773. Two years later, the Nawab, by now fed up with British interference, transferred the domain to the Company under the direct control of the Governor-General of India, Warren Hastings. Under the new British terms, Chait Singh was empowered to contribute cavalry and maintenance grants for the Company's sepoy battalions. The Raja refused to do this and he began to secretly correspond with enemies of the Company in hopes of forcibly breaking the arrangement. The company discovered his plan, stripped him of his position and placed him under house arrest in August 1781, pending an interview with Hastings. He escaped, killing his unarmed guards and gathered his small forces, appealing for assistance from local rulers, who did nothing. In skirmishes with the Company's forces, Chait Singh's troops were defeated, the rebellion crushed, and the zamindari confiscated and given to his nephew Rafa'at wa Awal-i-Martabat Raja Sri Mahip Narayan Singh Sahib Bahadur on 14 September 1781. Chait Singh himself took shelter in Awadh, then to Gwalior, where he was granted a jagir for a while until it was later confiscated. He died in Gwalior on 29 March 1810 in obscurity, leaving three sons. The incident greatly tarnished Hastings' image and capability, leading to a failed attempt to impeach him by the British parliament.\n\nChait Singh's nephew, Raja Sri Mahip Narayan Singh Sahib Bahadur, succeeded his maternal uncle on 14 September 1781 under the terms of the Company, which were that he should serve to dispense justice within his domains and make an annual contribution of 40 lakhs. He continued his family tradition of tussles with Britishers, who in turn proved him incapable of governing, and on 27 October 1794, under a formal agreement the four \"sarkars\", or revenue districts, held by the Raja were transferred to the direct rule of the Company administration, leaving only the family domains under the rule of the Raja; in return Mahip Narayan Singh received 1 lakh per year in compensation and any surplus revenue of the \"sarkars\". Mahipat Narayan Singh died barely a year lateer and was succeeded by his eldest son, Rafa'at wa Awal-i-Martabat Raja Sri Udit Narayan Singh Sahib Bahadur.\n\nThe eldest surviving son of Mahip Narayan Singh, Udit Narayan Singh Sahib Bahadur (1770 – 4 April 1835, r. 12 September 1795 – 4 April 1835) was even more averse to British dominion and had regular confrontations with the company, who in turn proved him more incapable as an administrator than his father had been. In 1828, he petitioned the company to annul the 1794 agreement under which the family had lost the \"sarkars\", and to press for their return to family control. However, the company instead ordered a detailed enquiry into Udit Narayan Singh's personal affairs and his governance of the family domains. Finding them to be grossly mismanaged, the company confiscated the last remaining lands of the Rajas and placed them under their own control. It would be over five decades before the domains would be restored to the family. Udit Narayan Singh died on 4 April 1835, aged 65, and was succeeded by his nephew, Raja Sri Ishwari Prasad Narayan Singh Sahib Bahadur.\n\nHis Highness Maharaja Bahadur Sri Sir Ishwari Prasad Narayan Singh, GCSI (1822-13 June 1889) succeeded his uncle upon the latter's death in 1835, becoming the first of his line to be granted the title of \"Maharaja\". Ascending the throne at the age of 13, during the Indian Rebellion of 1857 he remained neutral to revolt. As a reward, he was promoted to the rank of \"Maharaja Bahadur\" in 1859. In 1867, he was granted a personal 13-gun salute; a decade later he was knighted with the GCSI, becoming Sir Ishwari. He eventually became a member of the Viceroy's Legislative Council and in the crowning achievement of his reign, restored all the family lands that had been lost to them for over a century. Given the title of His Highness in 1889, H H Maharaja Sir Ishwari Prasad Narayan Singh died several months later, aged 67 and was succeeded by his nephew, Prabhu Narayan Singh Sahib Bahadur.\n\nPrabhu Narayan Singh would reign for 42 years as Maharaja; in 1891, he was knighted with the KCIE, later becoming an honorary colonel in the Indian Army. In 1911, he became the first Maharaja of the newly created princely state of Benares, including the parganas of Bhadohi and Keramnagar, Chakia and Ramnagar, together with certain limited rights within the City of Benares. He donated 1,300 acres of land to establish famous Banaras Hindu University. Given Benares's close ties to Nepal, it was not surprising when Sir Prabhu Narayan married a daughter of Jang Bahadur Kunwar Ranaji, the Prime Minister of Nepal and Maharaja of Kaski and Lamjung, as his first wife. He later married a distant relation of the family, a sister of Babu Jagdep Narayan Singh. Dying in 1931, aged 75, Maharaja Sir Prabhu Narayan was succeeded by his only son, Captain Sir Aditya Narayan Singh.\n\nAditya Narayan Singh would reign for only seven and a half years before dying in 1939, aged 64. Having had no children, Maharaja Aditya Narayan had adopted a distant cousin to succeed him.\n\nMaharaja Vibhuti Narayan Singh, as he was to be known was born on 5 November 1927, the great-nephew of the second wife of Maharaja Sir Prabhu Narayan Singh. In 1934, when he was six years old, he was adopted by his distant cousin, Maharaja Sir Aditya Narayan Singh of Benares, becoming heir apparent and receiving a new name, Maharaj Kumar Vibhuti Narayan Singh. Five years later, the old Maharaja died, and Maharaja Vibhuti Narayan Singh became Maharaja under a regency until he succeeded to the throne in his own right as Maharaja on 11 July 1947, a month before India's independence. On 15 August, Maharaja Vibuti Narayan signed the Instrument of Accession to India. On 15 October 1947, he merged Benares into the new Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. This marked the end of Maharaja Vibhuti Narayan Singh's short reign, although he would maintain his titles for many more years.\n\nA deeply religious believer in, and scholar of, the Vedas and Puranas, Maharaja Vibhuti Narayan Singh strictly adhered to orthodox Hindu customs. Despite the decision of the Indira Gandhi government to abolish the titles of the Indian monarchs on 28 December 1971, he remained deeply respected for the remainder of his life. A distinguished scholar of Sanskrit, Puranas and the Vedas, he presided over a number of scholastic, religious and charitable institutions, including a term from 1992 until his death as Chancellor of Benares Hindu University, and took part in public religious ceremonies in the City of Benares. At his death on Christmas Day, 2000, aged 73, he had 4 children, 3 daughters and a son; Maharaj Kumari Shri Vishnu Priya, Maharaj Kumari Shri Har Priya, Maharaj Kumari Shri Krishna Priya and the youngest being Maharaj Anant Narayan Singh who succeeded him. Maharaj Anant Narayan Singh has two sons: Kunwar Aniruddh Narayan Singh and Praddyumna Narayan Singh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2030540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2030540", "title": "Osarseph", "text": "Osarseph\n\nOsarseph or Osarsiph () is a legendary figure of Ancient Egypt who has been equated with Moses. His story was recounted by the Ptolemaic Egyptian historian Manetho in his \"Aigyptiaca\" (first half of the 3rd century BC); Manetho's work is lost, but the 1st century AD Jewish historian Josephus quotes extensively from it.\n\nThe story depicts Osarseph as a renegade Egyptian priest who leads an army of lepers and other unclean people against a pharaoh named Amenophis; the pharaoh is driven out of the country and the leper-army, in alliance with the Hyksos (whose story is also told by Manetho) ravage Egypt, committing many sacrileges against the gods, before Amenophis returns and expels them. Towards the end of the story Osarseph changes his name to Moses.\n\nAlso much debated is the question of what, if any, historical reality might lie behind the Osarseph story. The story has been linked with anti-Jewish propaganda of the second and first centuries BCE as an inversion of the Exodus story, but an influential study by Egyptologist Jan Assmann has suggested that no single historical incident or person lies behind the legend, and that it represents instead a conflation of several historical traumas, notably the religious reforms of Akhenaten (Amenophis IV).\n\nThe story of Osarseph is known from two long quotations from the \"Aigyptiaca\", a history of Egypt by the Egyptian historian Manetho, in Josephus's \"Against Apion\". The first is Manetho's account of the expulsion of the Hyksos (the name is given by Manetho) and their settlement in Judea, where they found the city of Jerusalem. Josephus then draws the conclusion that Manetho's Hyksos were the Jews of the Exodus, although Manetho himself makes no such connection.\n\nThe second, set some two hundred years later, tells the story of Osarseph. According to Josephus, Manetho described Osarseph as a tyrannical high priest of Osiris at Heliopolis. Pharaoh Amenophis had a desire to see the gods, but in order to do so he first had to cleanse Egypt of lepers and other polluted people, setting 80,000 of them to work in the stone quarries, and then confining them to Avaris, the former Hyksos capital in the Eastern Delta. There Osarseph became their leader and ordered them to give up the worship of the gods and eat the meat of the holy animals. The Osarsephites then invited the Hyksos back into Egypt, and together with their new allies drove Amenophis and his son Ramses into exile in Nubia and instituted a 13-year reign of religious oppression: towns and temples were devastated, the images of the gods destroyed, the sanctuaries turned into kitchens and the sacred animals roasted over fires, until eventually Amenophis and Rameses returned to expel the lepers and the Hyksos and restore the old Egyptian religion. Towards the end of the story Manetho reports that Osarseph took the name \"Moses\".\n\nThree interpretations have been proposed for the story: the first, as a memory of the Amarna period; the second, as a memory of the Hyksos; and the third, as an anti-Jewish propaganda. Each explanation has evidence to support it: the name of the pharaoh, Amenophis, and the religious character of the conflict fit the Amarna reform of Egyptian religion; the name of Avaris and possibly the name Osarseph fit the Hyksos period; and the overall plot is an apparent inversion of the Jewish story of the Exodus casting the Jews in a bad light. No one theory, however, can explain all the elements. An influential proposition by Egyptologist Jan Assmann suggests that the story has no single origin but rather combines numerous historical experiences, notably the Amarna and Hyksos periods, into a folk memory. (An alternative theory that identifies Osarseph with the historical figure of Chancellor Bay, an alleged Syrian usurper of the Egyptian throne after the Nineteenth Dynasty, is generally rejected.\n\nIt is possible that Osarseph story, or at least the point at which Osarseph changes his name to Moses, is an alteration to Manetho's original history made in the 1st century BC when anti-Jewish sentiment was running high in Egypt, since without this Manetho's history has no mention of the Jews at all. If the story is an original part of Manetho's history of Egypt, the question arises of where he could have heard it, as the Greek Septuagint translation of the Hebrew Torah (i.e., the Exodus narrative) had not been made when he was writing. It is possible that he had an oral (Jewish) informant, or possibly an otherwise unknown pre-Septuagint translation.\n\n"}
{"id": "42575306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42575306", "title": "Otake Dainichi Nyorai", "text": "Otake Dainichi Nyorai\n\nOtake Dainichi Nyorai (お竹大日如来 or 於竹大日如来), who is also known as Otake, is a figure in the Japanese Buddhist tradition. \n\nShe was a humble maidservant of the Sakuma family in Odenma-cho in Edo, who lived during the 17th century. She was a very religious woman of great Buddhist virtue. She gave all she had to the poor, ate hardly any food, and performed the most menial chores with extreme diligence. A group of mountain ascetics, who were searching for the reincarnation of the Nyorai Buddha, found her. When Otake bent down to pick up a few grains of rice that had fallen on the floor, a halo-like light surrounded her, convincing the ascetics that they had come upon a divine being. Otake is often portrayed with an object behind her head that resembles a halo, or with a shadow or reflection identifying her as a buddha.\n\n"}
{"id": "39368627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39368627", "title": "Pray for the Peace of Jeruslam", "text": "Pray for the Peace of Jeruslam\n\nPray for the Peace of Jerusalem is a statue by the Israeli artist Dani Karavan located on the southern wall of the Knesset assembly hall. Due to its location, this artwork is the most photographed work of art in Israel.\n\nIn 1964, in the age of 33, Dani Karavan was chosen by Dora Gad, the Knesset interior architect, to create the statue that will consist of the western central wall of the Knesset assembly hall.\n\nThe statue is a scenery view, curved in stone, originated in Deir al-Asad quarry in the Galilee. The cartography is 24 meters wide and 7 meters tall. The statue in one out of two Dani Karavan art pieces, located in the Knesset. The second piece is the front wooden wall of the Knesset Auditorium\n"}
{"id": "25887798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887798", "title": "Psilocybe furtadoana", "text": "Psilocybe furtadoana\n\nPsilocybe furtadoana is a species of mushroom in the Strophariaceae family.\n\n"}
{"id": "35432202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35432202", "title": "Purépecha religion", "text": "Purépecha religion\n\nThe Purépecha religion is the religion of the Purépecha people.\n\n"}
{"id": "11726280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11726280", "title": "Reb (Yiddish)", "text": "Reb (Yiddish)\n\nReb (, ) is a Yiddish or Hebrew honorific traditionally used for Orthodox Jewish men. It is not a rabbinic title. In writing it is abbreviated as ר׳. On a gravestone, ב'ר is an abbreviation for \"ben reb\" meaning \"son/daughter of the worthy...\" Reb may also be a short form of Rebbe. It is generally only used for married men, sometimes an equivalent of \"Mr.\"\n\nThe title was adopted by Orthodox Jews at the time of the schism with the Karaites, as a sign of loyalty to Rabbinic Judaism.\n\nWhen addressing someone directly, \"Reb\" is usually used with the first name only (\"May I help you, Reb Chaim?\"). In other circumstances, it can be used with either the first name or the full name (\"This is Reb Chaim Jacobs.\"; \"Would you please help Reb Chaim?\"). In formal written address, it is usually used along with the full name.\n"}
{"id": "214954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214954", "title": "Religion in ancient Rome", "text": "Religion in ancient Rome\n\nReligion in Ancient Rome includes the ancestral ethnic religion of the city of Rome that the Romans used to define themselves as a people, as well as the religious practices of peoples brought under Roman rule, in so far as they became widely followed in Rome and Italy. The Romans thought of themselves as highly religious, and attributed their success as a world power to their collective piety \"(pietas)\" in maintaining good relations with the gods. The Romans are known for the great number of deities they honored, a capacity that earned the mockery of early Christian polemicists.\n\nThe presence of Greeks on the Italian peninsula from the beginning of the historical period influenced Roman culture, introducing some religious practices that became as fundamental as the cult of Apollo. The Romans looked for common ground between their major gods and those of the Greeks (\"interpretatio graeca\"), adapting Greek myths and iconography for Latin literature and Roman art, as the Etruscans had. Etruscan religion was also a major influence, particularly on the practice of augury. According to legends, most of Rome's religious institutions could be traced to its founders, particularly Numa Pompilius, the Sabine second king of Rome, who negotiated directly with the gods. This archaic religion was the foundation of the \"mos maiorum\", \"the way of the ancestors\" or simply \"tradition\", viewed as central to Roman identity.\nRoman religion was practical and contractual, based on the principle of \"do ut des\", \"I give that you might give\". Religion depended on knowledge and the correct practice of prayer, ritual, and sacrifice, not on faith or dogma, although Latin literature preserves learned speculation on the nature of the divine and its relation to human affairs. Even the most skeptical among Rome's intellectual elite such as Cicero, who was an augur, saw religion as a source of social order. As the Roman Empire expanded, migrants to the capital brought their local cults, many of which became popular among Italians. Christianity was in the end the most successful of these, and in 380 became the official state religion.\n\nFor ordinary Romans, religion was a part of daily life. Each home had a household shrine at which prayers and libations to the family's domestic deities were offered. Neighborhood shrines and sacred places such as springs and groves dotted the city. The Roman calendar was structured around religious observances. Women, slaves, and children all participated in a range of religious activities. Some public rituals could be conducted only by women, and women formed what is perhaps Rome's most famous priesthood, the state-supported Vestals, who tended Rome's sacred hearth for centuries, until disbanded under Christian domination.\n\nThe priesthoods of public religion were held by members of the elite classes. There was no principle analogous to separation of church and state in ancient Rome. During the Roman Republic (509–27 BC), the same men who were elected public officials might also serve as augurs and pontiffs. Priests married, raised families, and led politically active lives. Julius Caesar became pontifex maximus before he was elected consul.\n\nThe augurs read the will of the gods and supervised the marking of boundaries as a reflection of universal order, thus sanctioning Roman expansionism as a matter of divine destiny. The Roman triumph was at its core a religious procession in which the victorious general displayed his piety and his willingness to serve the public good by dedicating a portion of his spoils to the gods, especially Jupiter, who embodied just rule. As a result of the Punic Wars (264–146 BC), when Rome struggled to establish itself as a dominant power, many new temples were built by magistrates in fulfillment of a vow to a deity for assuring their military success.\n\nAs the Romans extended their dominance throughout the Mediterranean world, their policy in general was to absorb the deities and cults of other peoples rather than try to eradicate them, since they believed that preserving tradition promoted social stability. One way that Rome incorporated diverse peoples was by supporting their religious heritage, building temples to local deities that framed their theology within the hierarchy of Roman religion. Inscriptions throughout the Empire record the side-by-side worship of local and Roman deities, including dedications made by Romans to local gods.\n\nBy the height of the Empire, numerous international deities were cultivated at Rome and had been carried to even the most remote provinces, among them Cybele, Isis, Epona, and gods of solar monism such as Mithras and Sol Invictus, found as far north as Roman Britain. Foreign religions increasingly attracted devotees among Romans, who increasingly had ancestry from elsewhere in the Empire. Imported mystery religions, which offered initiates salvation in the afterlife, were a matter of personal choice for an individual, practiced in addition to carrying on one's family rites and participating in public religion. The mysteries, however, involved exclusive oaths and secrecy, conditions that conservative Romans viewed with suspicion as characteristic of \"magic\", conspiratorial (\"coniuratio\"), or subversive activity. Sporadic and sometimes brutal attempts were made to suppress religionists who seemed to threaten traditional morality and unity, as with the senate's efforts to restrict the Bacchanals in 186 BC. Because Romans had never been obligated to cultivate one god or one cult only, religious tolerance was not an issue in the sense that it is for competing monotheistic systems. The monotheistic rigor of Judaism posed difficulties for Roman policy that led at times to compromise and the granting of special exemptions, but sometimes to intractable conflict. For example, religious disputes helped cause the First Jewish–Roman War and the Bar Kokhba revolt.\n\nIn the wake of the Republic's collapse, state religion had adapted to support the new regime of the emperors. Augustus, the first Roman emperor, justified the novelty of one-man rule with a vast program of religious revivalism and reform. Public vows formerly made for the security of the republic now were directed at the well-being of the emperor. So-called \"emperor worship\" expanded on a grand scale the traditional Roman veneration of the ancestral dead and of the \"Genius\", the divine tutelary of every individual. The Imperial cult became one of the major ways in which Rome advertised its presence in the provinces and cultivated shared cultural identity and loyalty throughout the Empire. Rejection of the state religion was tantamount to treason. This was the context for Rome's conflict with Christianity, which Romans variously regarded as a form of atheism and novel \"superstitio\". Ultimately, Roman polytheism was brought to an end with the adoption of Christianity as the official religion of the empire.\n\nThe Roman mythological tradition is particularly rich in historical myths, or legends, concerning the foundation and rise of the city. These narratives focus on human actors, with only occasional intervention from deities but a pervasive sense of divinely ordered destiny. For Rome's earliest period, history and myth are difficult to distinguish.\n\nAccording to mythology, Rome had a semi-divine ancestor in the Trojan refugee Aeneas, son of Venus, who was said to have established the nucleus of Roman religion when he brought the Palladium, Lares and Penates from Troy to Italy. These objects were believed in historical times to remain in the keeping of the Vestals, Rome's female priesthood. Aeneas, according to classical authors, had been given refuge by King Evander, a Greek exile from Arcadia, to whom were attributed other religious foundations: he established the \"Ara Maxima\", \"Greatest Altar\", to Hercules at the site that would become the Forum Boarium, and, so the legend went, he was the first to celebrate the Lupercalia, an archaic festival in February that was celebrated as late as the 5th century of the Christian era.\n\nThe myth of a Trojan founding with Greek influence was reconciled through an elaborate genealogy (the Latin kings of Alba Longa) with the well-known legend of Rome's founding by Romulus and Remus. The most common version of the twins' story displays several aspects of hero myth. Their mother, Rhea Silvia, had been ordered by her uncle the king to remain a virgin, in order to preserve the throne he had usurped from her father. Through divine intervention, the rightful line was restored when Rhea Silvia was impregnated by the god Mars. She gave birth to twins, who were duly exposed by order of the king but saved through a series of miraculous events.\n\nRomulus and Remus regained their grandfather's throne and set out to build a new city, consulting with the gods through augury, a characteristic religious institution of Rome that is portrayed as existing from earliest times. The brothers quarrel while building the city walls, and Romulus kills Remus, an act that is sometimes seen as sacrificial. Fratricide thus became an integral part of Rome's founding myth.\n\nRomulus was credited with several religious institutions. He founded the Consualia festival, inviting the neighbouring Sabines to participate; the ensuing rape of the Sabine women by Romulus's men further embedded both violence and cultural assimilation in Rome's myth of origins. As a successful general, Romulus is also supposed to have founded Rome's first temple to Jupiter Feretrius and offered the \"spolia opima\", the prime spoils taken in war, in the celebration of the first Roman triumph. Spared a mortal's death, Romulus was mysteriously spirited away and deified.\nHis Sabine successor Numa was pious and peaceable, and credited with numerous political and religious foundations, including the first Roman calendar; the priesthoods of the Salii, flamines, and Vestals; the cults of Jupiter, Mars, and Quirinus; and the Temple of Janus, whose doors stayed open in times of war but in Numa's time remained closed. After Numa's death, the doors to the Temple of Janus were supposed to have remained open until the reign of Augustus.\n\nEach of Rome's legendary or semi-legendary kings was associated with one or more religious institutions still known to the later Republic. Tullus Hostilius and Ancus Marcius instituted the fetial priests. The first \"outsider\" Etruscan king, Lucius Tarquinius Priscus, founded a Capitoline temple to the triad Jupiter, Juno and Minerva which served as the model for the highest official cult throughout the Roman world. The benevolent, divinely fathered Servius Tullius established the Latin League, its Aventine Temple to Diana, and the Compitalia to mark his social reforms. Servius Tullius was murdered and succeeded by the arrogant Tarquinius Superbus, whose expulsion marked the beginning of Rome as a republic with annually elected magistrates.\n\nRoman historians regarded the essentials of Republican religion as complete by the end of Numa's reign, and confirmed as right and lawful by the Senate and people of Rome: the sacred topography of the city, its monuments and temples, the histories of Rome's leading families, and oral and ritual traditions. According to Cicero, the Romans considered themselves the most religious of all peoples, and their rise to dominance was proof they received divine favor in return.\n\nRome offers no native creation myth, and little mythography to explain the character of its deities, their mutual relationships or their interactions with the human world, but Roman theology acknowledged that \"di immortales\" (immortal gods) ruled all realms of the heavens and earth. There were gods of the upper heavens, gods of the underworld and a myriad of lesser deities between. Some evidently favoured Rome because Rome honoured them, but none were intrinsically, irredeemably foreign or alien. The political, cultural and religious coherence of an emergent Roman super-state required a broad, inclusive and flexible network of lawful cults. At different times and in different places, the sphere of influence, character and functions of a divine being could expand, overlap with those of others, and be redefined as Roman. Change was embedded within existing traditions.\n\nSeveral versions of a semi-official, structured pantheon were developed during the political, social and religious instability of the Late Republican era. Jupiter, the most powerful of all gods and \"the fount of the auspices upon which the relationship of the city with the gods rested\", consistently personified the divine authority of Rome's highest offices, internal organization and external relations. During the archaic and early Republican eras, he shared his temple, some aspects of cult and several divine characteristics with Mars and Quirinus, who were later replaced by Juno and Minerva. A conceptual tendency toward triads may be indicated by the later agricultural or plebeian triad of Ceres, Liber and Libera, and by some of the complementary threefold deity-groupings of Imperial cult. Other major and minor deities could be single, coupled, or linked retrospectively through myths of divine marriage and sexual adventure. These later Roman pantheistic hierarchies are part literary and mythographic, part philosophical creations, and often Greek in origin. The Hellenization of Latin literature and culture supplied literary and artistic models for reinterpreting Roman deities in light of the Greek Olympians, and promoted a sense that the two cultures had a shared heritage.\n\nThe impressive, costly, and centralised rites to the deities of the Roman state were vastly outnumbered in everyday life by commonplace religious observances pertaining to an individual's domestic and personal deities, the patron divinities of Rome's various neighborhoods and communities, and the often idiosyncratic blends of official, unofficial, local and personal cults that characterised lawful Roman religion. In this spirit, a provincial Roman citizen who made the long journey from Bordeaux to Italy to consult the Sibyl at Tibur did not neglect his devotion to his own goddess from home:\n\"I wander, never ceasing to pass through the whole world, but I am first and foremost a faithful worshiper of Onuava. I am at the ends of the earth, but the distance cannot tempt me to make my vows to another goddess. Love of the truth brought me to Tibur, but Onuava's favorable powers came with me. Thus, divine mother, far from my home-land, exiled in Italy, I address my vows and prayers to you no less.\"\nThroughout the life of Rome, a numerous array of \"mystery cults\" appeared. These cults were generally founded upon legends or sacred stories, such as the tale of Orpheus. Several had a basis in other cultures, such as the Cult of Isis, and Egyptian goddess. The members generally knew the stories were pure legend, but they provided a model for their followers to obey. These cults had often expensive, long, or trying initiation processes, which differed between cults, but prospective members were promised with a path to a better atmosphere and an atmosphere that fostered social bonds, known as \"mystai\". These bonds were generated due to the fact that most of these cults regularly practiced common meals among members, dances, ceremonies and rituals, and the aforementioned initiations. The focus of the cult, such as the focus on Orpheus among Orphic cults, did not necessarily dictate the theology of its members. The legendary tales were meant to guide members, but the deities involved tended to be a lesser focus. Mystery cults were present and generally accepted throughout much of Rome and provided a unique theological experience for their members. \n\nRoman calendars show roughly forty annual religious festivals. Some lasted several days, others a single day or less: sacred days (\"dies fasti\") outnumbered \"non-sacred\" days (\"dies nefasti\"). A comparison of surviving Roman religious calendars suggests that official festivals were organized according to broad seasonal groups that allowed for different local traditions. Some of the most ancient and popular festivals incorporated \"ludi\" (\"games\", such as chariot races and theatrical performances), with examples including those held at Palestrina in honour of Fortuna Primigenia during Compitalia, and the Ludi Romani in honour of Liber. Other festivals may have required only the presence and rites of their priests and acolytes, or particular groups, such as women at the Bona Dea rites.\n\nOther public festivals were not required by the calendar, but occasioned by events. The triumph of a Roman general was celebrated as the fulfillment of religious vows, though these tended to be overshadowed by the political and social significance of the event. During the late Republic, the political elite competed to outdo each other in public display, and the \"ludi\" attendant on a triumph were expanded to include gladiator contests. Under the Principate, all such spectacular displays came under Imperial control: the most lavish were subsidised by emperors, and lesser events were provided by magistrates as a sacred duty and privilege of office. Additional festivals and games celebrated Imperial accessions and anniversaries. Others, such as the traditional Republican Secular Games to mark a new era (\"saeculum\"), became imperially funded to maintain traditional values and a common Roman identity. That the spectacles retained something of their sacral aura even in late antiquity is indicated by the admonitions of the Church Fathers that Christians should not take part.\n\nThe meaning and origin of many archaic festivals baffled even Rome's intellectual elite, but the more obscure they were, the greater the opportunity for reinvention and reinterpretation – a fact lost neither on Augustus in his program of religious reform, which often cloaked autocratic innovation, nor on his only rival as mythmaker of the era, Ovid. In his \"Fasti\", a long-form poem covering Roman holidays from January to June, Ovid presents a unique look at Roman antiquarian lore, popular customs, and religious practice that is by turns imaginative, entertaining, high-minded, and scurrilous; not a priestly account, despite the speaker's pose as a \"vates\" or inspired poet-prophet, but a work of description, imagination and poetic etymology that reflects the broad humor and burlesque spirit of such venerable festivals as the Saturnalia, Consualia, and feast of Anna Perenna on the Ides of March, where Ovid treats the assassination of the newly deified Julius Caesar as utterly incidental to the festivities among the Roman people. But official calendars preserved from different times and places also show a flexibility in omitting or expanding events, indicating that there was no single static and authoritative calendar of required observances. In the later Empire under Christian rule, the new Christian festivals were incorporated into the existing framework of the Roman calendar, alongside at least some of the traditional festivals.\n\nPublic religious ceremonies of the official Roman religion took place outdoors, and not within the temple building. Some ceremonies were processions that started at, visited, or ended with a temple or shrine, where a ritual object might be stored and brought out for use, or where an offering would be deposited. Sacrifices, chiefly of animals, would take place at an open-air altar within the \"templum\" or precinct, often to the side of the steps leading up to the raised portico. The main room \"(cella)\" inside a temple housed the cult image of the deity to whom the temple was dedicated, and often a small altar for incense or libations. It might also display art works looted in war and rededicated to the gods. It is not clear how accessible the interiors of temples were to the general public.\n\nThe Latin word \"templum\" originally referred not to the temple building itself, but to a sacred space surveyed and plotted ritually through augury: \"The architecture of the ancient Romans was, from first to last, an art of shaping space around ritual.\" The Roman architect Vitruvius always uses the word \"templum\" to refer to this sacred precinct, and the more common Latin words \"aedes\", \"delubrum\", or \"fanum\" for a temple or shrine as a building. The ruins of temples are among the most visible monuments of ancient Roman culture.\n\nTemple buildings and shrines within the city commemorated significant political settlements in its development: the Aventine Temple of Diana supposedly marked the founding of the Latin League under Servius Tullius. Many temples in the Republican era were built as the fulfillment of a vow made by a general in exchange for a victory.\n\nAll sacrifices and offerings required an accompanying prayer to be effective. Pliny the Elder declared that \"a sacrifice without prayer is thought to be useless and not a proper consultation of the gods.\" Prayer by itself, however, had independent power. The spoken word was thus the single most potent religious action, and knowledge of the correct verbal formulas the key to efficacy. Accurate naming was vital for tapping into the desired powers of the deity invoked, hence the proliferation of cult epithets among Roman deities. Public prayers (\"prex\") were offered loudly and clearly by a priest on behalf of the community. Public religious ritual had to be enacted by specialists and professionals faultlessly; a mistake might require that the action, or even the entire festival, be repeated from the start. The historian Livy reports an occasion when the presiding magistrate at the Latin festival forgot to include the \"Roman people\" among the list of beneficiaries in his prayer; the festival had to be started over. Even private prayer by an individual was formulaic, a recitation rather than a personal expression, though selected by the individual for a particular purpose or occasion.\n\nOaths—sworn for the purposes of business, clientage and service, patronage and protection, state office, treaty and loyalty—appealed to the witness and sanction of deities. Refusal to swear a lawful oath \"(sacramentum)\" and breaking a sworn oath carried much the same penalty: both repudiated the fundamental bonds between the human and divine. A \"votum\" or vow was a promise made to a deity, usually an offer of sacrifices or a votive offering in exchange for benefits received.\n\nIn Latin, the word \"sacrificium\" means the performance of an act that renders something \"sacer\", sacred. Sacrifice reinforced the powers and attributes of divine beings, and inclined them to render benefits in return (the principle of \"do ut des\").\n\nOfferings to household deities were part of daily life. Lares might be offered spelt wheat and grain-garlands, grapes and first fruits in due season, honey cakes and honeycombs, wine and incense, food that fell to the floor during any family meal, or at their Compitalia festival, honey-cakes and a pig on behalf of the community. Their supposed underworld relatives, the malicious and vagrant Lemures, might be placated with midnight offerings of black beans and spring water.\n\nThe most potent offering was animal sacrifice, typically of domesticated animals such as cattle, sheep and pigs. Each was the best specimen of its kind, cleansed, clad in sacrificial regalia and garlanded; the horns of oxen might be gilded. Sacrifice sought the harmonisation of the earthly and divine, so the victim must seem willing to offer its own life on behalf of the community; it must remain calm and be quickly and cleanly dispatched.\n\nSacrifice to deities of the heavens (\"di superi\", \"gods above\") was performed in daylight, and under the public gaze. Deities of the upper heavens required white, infertile victims of their own sex: Juno a white heifer (possibly a white cow); Jupiter a white, castrated ox (\"bos mas\") for the annual oath-taking by the consuls. \"Di superi\" with strong connections to the earth, such as Mars, Janus, Neptune and various \"genii\" – including the Emperor's – were offered fertile victims. After the sacrifice, a banquet was held; in state cults, the images of honoured deities took pride of place on banqueting couches and by means of the sacrificial fire consumed their proper portion (\"exta\", the innards). Rome's officials and priests reclined in order of precedence alongside and ate the meat; lesser citizens may have had to provide their own.\nChthonic gods such as Dis pater, the \"di inferi\" (\"gods below\"), and the collective shades of the departed \"(di Manes)\" were given dark, fertile victims in nighttime rituals. Animal sacrifice usually took the form of a holocaust or burnt offering, and there was no shared banquet, as \"the living cannot share a meal with the dead\". Ceres and other underworld goddesses of fruitfulness were sometimes offered pregnant female animals; Tellus was given a pregnant cow at the Fordicidia festival. Color had a general symbolic value for sacrifices. Demigods and heroes, who belonged to the heavens and the underworld, were sometimes given black-and-white victims. Robigo (or Robigus) was given red dogs and libations of red wine at the Robigalia for the protection of crops from blight and red mildew.\nA sacrifice might be made in thanksgiving or as an expiation of a sacrilege or potential sacrilege (\"piaculum\");\na \"piaculum\" might also be offered as a sort of advance payment; the Arval Brethren, for instance, offered a \"piaculum\" before entering their sacred grove with an iron implement, which was forbidden, as well as after.\nThe pig was a common victim for a \"piaculum\".\n\nThe same divine agencies who caused disease or harm also had the power to avert it, and so might be placated in advance. Divine consideration might be sought to avoid the inconvenient delays of a journey, or encounters with banditry, piracy and shipwreck, with due gratitude to be rendered on safe arrival or return. In times of great crisis, the Senate could decree collective public rites, in which Rome's citizens, including women and children, moved in procession from one temple to the next, supplicating the gods.\n\nExtraordinary circumstances called for extraordinary sacrifice: in one of the many crises of the Second Punic War, Jupiter Capitolinus was promised every animal born that spring (see \"ver sacrum\"), to be rendered after five more years of protection from Hannibal and his allies. The \"contract\" with Jupiter is exceptionally detailed. All due care would be taken of the animals. If any died or were stolen before the scheduled sacrifice, they would count as already sacrificed, since they had already been consecrated. Normally, if the gods failed to keep their side of the bargain, the offered sacrifice would be withheld. In the imperial period, sacrifice was withheld following Trajan's death because the gods had not kept the Emperor safe for the stipulated period. In Pompeii, the Genius of the living emperor was offered a bull: presumably a standard practise in Imperial cult, though minor offerings (incense and wine) were also made.\nThe \"exta\" were the entrails of a sacrificed animal, comprising in Cicero's enumeration the gall bladder (\"fel\"), liver (\"iecur\"), heart (\"cor\"), and lungs (\"pulmones\"). The \"exta\" were exposed for litatio (divine approval) as part of Roman liturgy, but were \"read\" in the context of the \"disciplina Etrusca\". As a product of Roman sacrifice, the \"exta\" and blood are reserved for the gods, while the meat \"(viscera)\" is shared among human beings in a communal meal. The \"exta\" of bovine victims were usually stewed in a pot (\"olla\" or \"aula\"), while those of sheep or pigs were grilled on skewers. When the deity's portion was cooked, it was sprinkled with \"mola salsa\" (ritually prepared salted flour) and wine, then placed in the fire on the altar for the offering; the technical verb for this action was \"porricere\".\n\nHuman sacrifice in ancient Rome was rare but documented. After the Roman defeat at Cannae two Gauls and two Greeks were buried under the Forum Boarium, in a stone chamber \"which had on a previous occasion [228 BC] also been polluted by human victims, a practice most repulsive to Roman feelings\". Livy avoids the word \"sacrifice\" in connection with this bloodless human life-offering; Plutarch does not. The rite was apparently repeated in 113 BC, preparatory to an invasion of Gaul. Its religious dimensions and purpose remain uncertain.\n\nIn the early stages of the First Punic War (264 BC) the first known Roman gladiatorial \"munus\" was held, described as a funeral blood-rite to the \"manes\" of a Roman military aristocrat. The gladiator \"munus\" was never explicitly acknowledged as a human sacrifice, probably because death was not its inevitable outcome or purpose. Even so, the gladiators swore their lives to the infernal gods, and the combat was dedicated as an offering to the \"di manes\" or other gods. The event was therefore a \"sacrificium\" in the strict sense of the term, and Christian writers later condemned it as human sacrifice.\n\nThe small woollen dolls called \"Maniae\", hung on the Compitalia shrines, were thought a symbolic replacement for child-sacrifice to Mania, as Mother of the Lares. The Junii took credit for its abolition by their ancestor L. Junius Brutus, traditionally Rome's Republican founder and first consul. Political or military executions were sometimes conducted in such a way that they evoked human sacrifice, whether deliberately or in the perception of witnesses; Marcus Marius Gratidianus was a gruesome example.\n\nOfficially, human sacrifice was obnoxious \"to the laws of gods and men\". The practice was a mark of the barbarians, attributed to Rome's traditional enemies such as the Carthaginians and Gauls. Rome banned it on several occasions under extreme penalty. A law passed in 81 BC characterised human sacrifice as murder committed for magical purposes. Pliny saw the ending of human sacrifice conducted by the druids as a positive consequence of the conquest of Gaul and Britain. Despite an empire-wide ban under Hadrian, human sacrifice may have continued covertly in North Africa and elsewhere.\n\nThe \"mos maiorum\" established the dynastic authority and obligations of the citizen-\"paterfamilias\" (\"the father of the family\" or the \"owner of the family estate\"). He had priestly duties to his \"lares\", domestic \"penates\", ancestral \"Genius\" and any other deities with whom he or his family held an interdependent relationship. His own dependents, who included his slaves and freedmen, owed cult to his \"Genius\".\n\n\"Genius\" was the essential spirit and generative power – depicted as a serpent or as a perennial youth, often winged – within an individual and their clan (gens (pl. \"gentes\"). A \"paterfamilias\" could confer his name, a measure of his \"genius\" and a role in his household rites, obligations and honours upon those he fathered or adopted. His freed slaves owed him similar obligations.\n\nA \"pater familias\" was the senior priest of his household. He offered daily cult to his \"lares\" and \"penates\", and to his \"di parentes\"/\"divi parentes\" at his domestic shrines and in the fires of the household hearth. His wife (\"mater familias\") was responsible for the household's cult to Vesta. In rural estates, bailiffs seem to have been responsible for at least some of the household shrines (lararia) and their deities. Household cults had state counterparts. In Vergil's \"Aeneid\", Aeneas brought the Trojan cult of the \"lares\" and \"penates\" from Troy, along with the Palladium which was later installed in the temple of Vesta.\n\nRoman \"religio\" (religion) was an everyday and vital affair, a cornerstone of the \"mos maiorum\", Roman tradition or ancestral custom.\nCare for the gods, the very meaning of \"religio\", had therefore to go through life, and one might thus understand why Cicero wrote that religion was \"necessary\". Religious behavior – \"pietas\" in Latin, \"eusebeia\" in Greek – belonged to action and not to contemplation. Consequently religious acts took place wherever the faithful were: in houses, boroughs, associations, cities, military camps, cemeteries, in the country, on boats. 'When pious travelers happen to pass by a sacred grove or a cult place on their way, they are used to make a vow, or a fruit offering, or to sit down for a while' (Apuleius, \"Florides\" 1.1).\nReligious law centered on the ritualised system of honours and sacrifice that brought divine blessings, according to the principle \"do ut des\" (\"I give, that you might give\"). Proper, respectful \"religio\" brought social harmony and prosperity. Religious neglect was a form of atheism: impure sacrifice and incorrect ritual were \"vitia\" (impious errors). Excessive devotion, fearful grovelling to deities and the improper use or seeking of divine knowledge were \"superstitio\". Any of these moral deviations could cause divine anger (\"ira deorum\") and therefore harm the State. The official deities of the state were identified with its lawful offices and institutions, and Romans of every class were expected to honour the beneficence and protection of mortal and divine superiors. Participation in public rites showed a personal commitment to their community and its values.\n\nOfficial cults were state funded as a \"matter of public interest\" (\"res publica\"). Non-official but lawful cults were funded by private individuals for the benefit of their own communities. The difference between public and private cult is often unclear. Individuals or collegial associations could offer funds and cult to state deities. The public Vestals prepared ritual substances for use in public and private cults, and held the state-funded (thus public) opening ceremony for the Parentalia festival, which was otherwise a private rite to household ancestors. Some rites of the \"domus\" (household) were held in public places but were legally defined as \"privata\" in part or whole. All cults were ultimately subject to the approval and regulation of the censor and \"pontifices\".\n\nRome had no separate priestly caste or class. The highest authority within a community usually sponsored its cults and sacrifices, officiated as its priest and promoted its assistants and acolytes. Specialists from the religious colleges and professionals such as \"haruspices\" and oracles were available for consultation. In household cult, the \"paterfamilias\" functioned as priest, and members of his \"familia\" as acolytes and assistants. Public cults required greater knowledge and expertise. The earliest public priesthoods were probably the \"flamines\" (the singular is \"flamen\"), attributed to king Numa: the major \"flamines\", dedicated to Jupiter, Mars and Quirinus, were traditionally drawn from patrician families. Twelve lesser \"flamines\" were each dedicated to a single deity, whose archaic nature is indicated by the relative obscurity of some. \"Flamines\" were constrained by the requirements of ritual purity; Jupiter's \"flamen\" in particular had virtually no simultaneous capacity for a political or military career.\n\nIn the Regal era, a \"rex sacrorum\" (king of the sacred rites) supervised regal and state rites in conjunction with the king (\"rex\") or in his absence, and announced the public festivals. He had little or no civil authority. With the abolition of monarchy, the collegial power and influence of the Republican \"pontifices\" increased. By the late Republican era, the flamines were supervised by the pontifical \"collegia\". The \"rex sacrorum\" had become a relatively obscure priesthood with an entirely symbolic title: his religious duties still included the daily, ritual announcement of festivals and priestly duties within two or three of the latter but his most important priestly role – the supervision of the Vestals and their rites – fell to the more politically powerful and influential \"pontifex maximus\".\n\nPublic priests were appointed by the \"collegia\". Once elected, a priest held permanent religious authority from the eternal divine, which offered him lifetime influence, privilege and immunity. Therefore, civil and religious law limited the number and kind of religious offices allowed an individual and his family. Religious law was collegial and traditional; it informed political decisions, could overturn them, and was difficult to exploit for personal gain.\n\nPriesthood was a costly honour: in traditional Roman practice, a priest drew no stipend. Cult donations were the property of the deity, whose priest must provide cult regardless of shortfalls in public funding – this could mean subsidy of acolytes and all other cult maintenance from personal funds. For those who had reached their goal in the \"Cursus honorum\", permanent priesthood was best sought or granted after a lifetime's service in military or political life, or preferably both: it was a particularly honourable and active form of retirement which fulfilled an essential public duty. For a freedman or slave, promotion as one of the Compitalia \"seviri\" offered a high local profile, and opportunities in local politics; and therefore business.\n\nDuring the Imperial era, priesthood of the Imperial cult offered provincial elites full Roman citizenship and public prominence beyond their single year in religious office; in effect, it was the first step in a provincial \"cursus honorum\". In Rome, the same Imperial cult role was performed by the Arval Brethren, once an obscure Republican priesthood dedicated to several deities, then co-opted by Augustus as part of his religious reforms. The Arvals offered prayer and sacrifice to Roman state gods at various temples for the continued welfare of the Imperial family on their birthdays, accession anniversaries and to mark extraordinary events such as the quashing of conspiracy or revolt. Every 3 January they consecrated the annual vows and rendered any sacrifice promised in the previous year, provided the gods had kept the Imperial family safe for the contracted time.\n\nThe Vestals were a public priesthood of six women devoted to the cultivation of Vesta, goddess of the hearth of the Roman state and its vital flame. A girl chosen to be a Vestal achieved unique religious distinction, public status and privileges, and could exercise considerable political influence. Upon entering her office, a Vestal was emancipated from her father's authority. In archaic Roman society, these priestesses were the only women not required to be under the legal guardianship of a man, instead answering directly to the Pontifex Maximus.\n\nA Vestal's dress represented her status outside the usual categories that defined Roman women, with elements of both virgin bride and daughter, and Roman matron and wife. Unlike male priests, Vestals were freed of the traditional obligations of marrying and producing children, and were required to take a vow of chastity that was strictly enforced: a Vestal polluted by the loss of her chastity while in office was buried alive. Thus the exceptional honor accorded a Vestal was religious rather than personal or social; her privileges required her to be fully devoted to the performance of her duties, which were considered essential to the security of Rome.\n\nThe Vestals embody the profound connection between domestic cult and the religious life of the community. Any householder could rekindle their own household fire from Vesta's flame. The Vestals cared for the Lares and Penates of the state that were the equivalent of those enshrined in each home. Besides their own festival of Vestalia, they participated directly in the rites of Parilia, Parentalia and Fordicidia. Indirectly, they played a role in every official sacrifice; among their duties was the preparation of the \"mola salsa\", the salted flour that was sprinkled on every sacrificial victim as part of its immolation.\n\nOne mythological tradition held that the mother of Romulus and Remus was a Vestal virgin of royal blood. A tale of miraculous birth also attended on Servius Tullius, sixth king of Rome, son of a virgin slave-girl impregnated by a disembodied phallus arising mysteriously on the royal hearth; the story was connected to the \"fascinus\" that was among the cult objects under the guardianship of the Vestals.\n\nAugustus' religious reformations raised the funding and public profile of the Vestals. They were given high-status seating at games and theatres. The emperor Claudius appointed them as priestesses to the cult of the deified Livia, wife of Augustus. They seem to have retained their religious and social distinctions well into the 4th century, after political power within the Empire had shifted to the Christians. When the Christian emperor Gratian refused the office of \"pontifex maximus\", he took steps toward the dissolution of the order. His successor Theodosius I extinguished Vesta's sacred fire and vacated her temple.\n\nPublic religion took place within a sacred precinct that had been marked out ritually by an augur. The original meaning of the Latin word \"templum\" was this sacred space, and only later referred to a building. Rome itself was an intrinsically sacred space; its ancient boundary \"(pomerium)\" had been marked by Romulus himself with oxen and plough; what lay within was the earthly home and protectorate of the gods of the state. In Rome, the central references for the establishment of an augural \"templum\" appear to have been the Via Sacra (Sacred Way) and the pomerium. Magistrates sought divine opinion of proposed official acts through an augur, who read the divine will through observations made within the \"templum\" before, during and after an act of sacrifice.\n\nDivine disapproval could arise through unfit sacrifice, errant rites (\"vitium\") or an unacceptable plan of action. If an unfavourable sign was given, the magistrate could repeat the sacrifice until favourable signs were seen, consult with his augural colleagues, or abandon the project. Magistrates could use their right of augury (\"ius augurum\") to adjourn and overturn the process of law, but were obliged to base their decision on the augur's observations and advice. For Cicero, himself an augur, this made the augur the most powerful authority in the Late Republic. By his time (mid 1st century BC) augury was supervised by the college of \"pontifices\", whose powers were increasingly woven into the magistracies of the \"cursus honorum\".\n\nHaruspicy was also used in public cult, under the supervision of the augur or presiding magistrate. The haruspices divined the will of the gods through examination of entrails after sacrifice, particularly the liver. They also interpreted omens, prodigies and portents, and formulated their expiation. Most Roman authors describe haruspicy as an ancient, ethnically Etruscan \"outsider\" religious profession, separate from Rome's internal and largely unpaid priestly hierarchy, essential but never quite respectable. During the mid-to-late Republic, the reformist Gaius Gracchus, the populist politician-general Gaius Marius and his antagonist Sulla, and the \"notorious Verres\" justified their very different policies by the divinely inspired utterances of private diviners. The senate and armies used the public haruspices: at some time during the late Republic, the Senate decreed that Roman boys of noble family be sent to Etruria for training in haruspicy and divination. Being of independent means, they would be better motivated to maintain a pure, religious practice for the public good. The motives of private haruspices – especially females – and their clients were officially suspect: none of this seems to have troubled Marius, who employed a Syrian prophetess.\n\nOmens observed within or from a divine augural templum – especially the flight of birds – were sent by the gods in response to official queries. A magistrate with \"ius augurium\" (the right of augury) could declare the suspension of all official business for the day (\"obnuntiato\") if he deemed the omens unfavourable. Conversely, an apparently negative omen could be re-interpreted as positive, or deliberately blocked from sight.\n\nProdigies were transgressions in the natural, predictable order of the cosmos – signs of divine anger that portended conflict and misfortune. The Senate decided whether a reported prodigy was false, or genuine and in the public interest, in which case it was referred to the public priests, augurs and haruspices for ritual expiation. In 207 BC, during one of the Punic Wars' worst crises, the Senate dealt with an unprecedented number of confirmed prodigies whose expiation would have involved \"at least twenty days\" of dedicated rites.\n\nLivy presents these as signs of widespread failure in Roman \"religio\". The major prodigies included the spontaneous combustion of weapons, the apparent shrinking of the sun's disc, two moons in a daylit sky, a cosmic battle between sun and moon, a rain of red-hot stones, a bloody sweat on statues, and blood in fountains and on ears of corn: all were expiated by sacrifice of \"greater victims\". The minor prodigies were less warlike but equally unnatural; sheep become goats, a hen become a cock (and vice versa) – these were expiated with \"lesser victims\". The discovery of an androgynous four-year-old child was expiated by its drowning and the holy procession of 27 virgins to the temple of Juno Regina, singing a hymn to avert disaster: a lightning strike during the hymn rehearsals required further expiation. Religious restitution is proved only by Rome's victory.\n\nIn the wider context of Graeco-Roman religious culture, Rome's earliest reported portents and prodigies stand out as atypically dire. Whereas for Romans, a comet presaged misfortune, for Greeks it might equally signal a divine or exceptionally fortunate birth. In the late Republic, a daytime comet at the murdered Julius Caesar's funeral games confirmed his deification; a discernible Greek influence on Roman interpretation.\n\nRoman beliefs about an afterlife varied, and are known mostly for the educated elite who expressed their views in terms of their chosen philosophy. The traditional care of the dead, however, and the perpetuation after death of their status in life were part of the most archaic practices of Roman religion. Ancient votive deposits to the noble dead of Latium and Rome suggest elaborate and costly funeral offerings and banquets in the company of the deceased, an expectation of afterlife and their association with the gods. As Roman society developed, its Republican nobility tended to invest less in spectacular funerals and extravagant housing for their dead, and more on monumental endowments to the community, such as the donation of a temple or public building whose donor was commemorated by his statue and inscribed name. Persons of low or negligible status might receive simple burial, with such grave goods as relatives could afford.\nFuneral and commemorative rites varied according to wealth, status and religious context. In Cicero's time, the better-off sacrificed a sow at the funeral pyre before cremation. The dead consumed their portion in the flames of the pyre, Ceres her portion through the flame of her altar, and the family at the site of the cremation. For the less well-off, inhumation with \"a libation of wine, incense, and fruit or crops was sufficient\". Ceres functioned as an intermediary between the realms of the living and the dead: the deceased had not yet fully passed to the world of the dead and could share a last meal with the living. The ashes (or body) were entombed or buried. On the eighth day of mourning, the family offered further sacrifice, this time on the ground; the shade of the departed was assumed to have passed entirely into the underworld. They had become one of the \"di Manes\", who were collectively celebrated and appeased at the Parentalia, a multi-day festival of remembrance in February.\n\nA standard Roman funerary inscription is \"Dis Manibus\" (to the Manes-gods). Regional variations include its Greek equivalent, \"theoîs katachthoníois\" and Lugdunum's commonplace but mysterious \"dedicated under the trowel\" \"(sub ascia dedicare)\".\n\nIn the later Imperial era, the burial and commemorative practises of Christian and non-Christians overlapped. Tombs were shared by Christian and non-Christian family members, and the traditional funeral rites and feast of \"novemdialis\" found a part-match in the Christian \"Constitutio Apostolica\". The customary offers of wine and food to the dead continued; St Augustine (following St Ambrose) feared that this invited the \"drunken\" practices of Parentalia but commended funeral feasts as a Christian opportunity to give alms of food to the poor. Christians attended Parentalia and its accompanying Feralia and Caristia in sufficient numbers for the Council of Tours to forbid them in AD 567. Other funerary and commemorative practices were very different. Traditional Roman practice spurned the corpse as a ritual pollution; inscriptions noted the day of birth and duration of life. The Christian Church fostered the veneration of saintly relics, and inscriptions marked the day of death as a transition to \"new life\".\n\nMilitary success was achieved through a combination of personal and collective \"virtus\" (roughly, \"manly virtue\") and the divine will: lack of \"virtus\", civic or private negligence in \"religio\" and the growth of \"superstitio\" provoked divine wrath and led to military disaster. Military success was the touchstone of a special relationship with the gods, and to Jupiter Capitolinus in particular; triumphal generals were dressed as Jupiter, and laid their victor's laurels at his feet.\n\nRoman commanders offered vows to be fulfilled after success in battle or siege; and further vows to expiate their failures. Camillus promised Veii's goddess Juno a temple in Rome as incentive for her desertion \"(evocatio)\", conquered the city in her name, brought her cult statue to Rome \"with miraculous ease\" and dedicated a temple to her on the Aventine Hill.\n\nRoman camps followed a standard pattern for defense and religious ritual; in effect they were Rome in miniature. The commander's headquarters stood at the centre; he took the auspices on a dais in front. A small building behind housed the legionary standards, the divine images used in religious rites and in the Imperial era, the image of the ruling emperor. In one camp, this shrine is even called Capitolium. The most important camp-offering appears to have been the \"suovetaurilia\" performed before a major, set battle. A ram, a boar and a bull were ritually garlanded, led around the outer perimeter of the camp (a \"lustratio exercitus\") and in through a gate, then sacrificed: Trajan's column shows three such events from his Dacian wars. The perimeter procession and sacrifice suggest the entire camp as a divine \"templum\"; all within are purified and protected.\nEach camp had its own religious personnel; standard bearers, priestly officers and their assistants, including a haruspex, and housekeepers of shrines and images. A senior magistrate-commander (sometimes even a consul) headed it, his chain of subordinates ran it and a ferocious system of training and discipline ensured that every citizen-soldier knew his duty. As in Rome, whatever gods he served in his own time seem to have been his own business; legionary forts and \"vici\" included shrines to household gods, personal deities and deities otherwise unknown.\n\nFrom the earliest Imperial era, citizen legionaries and provincial auxiliaries gave cult to the emperor and his \"familia\" on Imperial accessions, anniversaries and their renewal of annual vows. They celebrated Rome's official festivals \"in absentia\", and had the official triads appropriate to their function – in the Empire, Jupiter, Victoria and Concordia were typical. By the early Severan era, the military also offered cult to the Imperial \"divi\", the current emperor's \"numen\", \"genius\" and \"domus\" (or \"familia\"), and special cult to the Empress as \"mother of the camp\". The near ubiquitous legionary shrines to Mithras of the later Imperial era were not part of official cult until Mithras was absorbed into Solar and Stoic Monism as a focus of military \"concordia\" and Imperial loyalty.\nThe \"devotio\" was the most extreme offering a Roman general could make, promising to offer his own life in battle along with the enemy as an offering to the underworld gods. Livy offers a detailed account of the \"devotio\" carried out by Decius Mus; family tradition maintained that his son and grandson, all bearing the same name, also devoted themselves. Before the battle, Decius is granted a prescient dream that reveals his fate. When he offers sacrifice, the victim's liver appears \"damaged where it refers to his own fortunes\". Otherwise, the haruspex tells him, the sacrifice is entirely acceptable to the gods. In a prayer recorded by Livy, Decius commits himself and the enemy to the \"dii Manes\" and Tellus, charges alone and headlong into the enemy ranks, and is killed; his action cleanses the sacrificial offering. Had he failed to die, his sacrificial offering would have been tainted and therefore void, with possibly disastrous consequences. The act of \"devotio\" is a link between military ethics and those of the Roman gladiator.\n\nThe efforts of military commanders to channel the divine will were on occasion less successful. In the early days of Rome's war against Carthage, the commander Publius Claudius Pulcher (consul 249 BC) launched a sea campaign \"though the sacred chickens would not eat when he took the auspices\". In defiance of the omen, he threw them into the sea, \"saying that they might drink, since they would not eat. He was defeated, and on being bidden by the senate to appoint a dictator, he appointed his messenger Glycias, as if again making a jest of his country's peril.\" His impiety not only lost the battle but ruined his career.\n\nRoman women were present at most festivals and cult observances. Some rituals specifically required the presence of women, but their active participation was limited. As a rule women did not perform animal sacrifice, the central rite of most major public ceremonies. In addition to the public priesthood of the Vestals, some cult practices were reserved for women only. The rites of the Bona Dea excluded men entirely. Because women enter the public record less frequently than men, their religious practices are less known, and even family cults were headed by the \"paterfamilias\". A host of deities, however, are associated with motherhood. Juno, Diana, Lucina, and specialized divine attendants presided over the life-threatening act of giving birth and the perils of caring for a baby at a time when the infant mortality rate was as high as 40 percent.\n\nLiterary sources vary in their depiction of women's religiosity: some represent women as paragons of Roman virtue and devotion, but also inclined by temperament to self-indulgent religious enthusiasms, novelties and the seductions of \"superstitio\".\n\nExcessive devotion and enthusiasm in religious observance were \"superstitio\", in the sense of \"doing or believing more than was necessary\", to which women and foreigners were considered particularly prone. The boundaries between \"religio\" and \"superstitio\" are perhaps indefinite. The famous tirade of Lucretius, the Epicurean rationalist, against what is usually translated as \"superstition\" was in fact aimed at excessive \"religio\". Roman religion was based on knowledge rather than faith, but \"superstitio\" was viewed as an \"inappropriate desire for knowledge\"; in effect, an abuse of \"religio\".\n\nIn the everyday world, many individuals sought to divine the future, influence it through magic, or seek vengeance with help from \"private\" diviners. The state-sanctioned taking of auspices was a form of public divination with the intent of ascertaining the will of the gods, not foretelling the future. Secretive consultations between private diviners and their clients were thus suspect. So were divinatory techniques such as astrology when used for illicit, subversive or magical purposes. Astrologers and magicians were officially expelled from Rome at various times, notably in 139 BC and 33 BC. In 16 BC Tiberius expelled them under extreme penalty because an astrologer had predicted his death. \"Egyptian rites\" were particularly suspect: Augustus banned them within the \"pomerium\" to doubtful effect; Tiberius repeated and extended the ban with extreme force in AD 19. Despite several Imperial bans, magic and astrology persisted among all social classes. In the late 1st century AD, Tacitus observed that astrologers \"would always be banned and always retained at Rome\".\n\nIn the Graeco-Roman world, practitioners of magic were known as \"magi\" (singular \"magus\"), a \"foreign\" title of Persian priests. Apuleius, defending himself against accusations of casting magic spells, defined the magician as \"in popular tradition \"(more vulgari)\"... someone who, because of his community of speech with the immortal gods, has an incredible power of spells (\"vi cantaminum\") for everything he wishes to.\" Pliny the Elder offers a thoroughly skeptical \"History of magical arts\" from their supposed Persian origins to Nero's vast and futile expenditure on research into magical practices in an attempt to control the gods. Philostratus takes pains to point out that the celebrated Apollonius of Tyana was definitely not a \"magus\", \"despite his special knowledge of the future, his miraculous cures, and his ability to vanish into thin air\".\n\nLucan depicts Sextus Pompeius, the doomed son of Pompey the Great, as convinced \"the gods of heaven knew too little\" and awaiting the Battle of Pharsalus by consulting with the Thessalian witch Erichtho, who practices necromancy and inhabits deserted graves, feeding on rotting corpses. Erichtho, it is said, can arrest \"the rotation of the heavens and the flow of rivers\" and make \"austere old men blaze with illicit passions\". She and her clients are portrayed as undermining the natural order of gods, mankind and destiny. A female foreigner from Thessaly, notorious for witchcraft, Erichtho is the stereotypical witch of Latin literature, along with Horace's Canidia.\nThe Twelve Tables forbade any harmful incantation (\"malum carmen\", or 'noisome metrical charm'); this included the \"charming of crops from one field to another\" (\"excantatio frugum\") and any rite that sought harm or death to others. Chthonic deities functioned at the margins of Rome's divine and human communities; although sometimes the recipients of public rites, these were conducted outside the sacred boundary of the \"pomerium\". Individuals seeking their aid did so away from the public gaze, during the hours of darkness. Burial grounds and isolated crossroads were among the likely portals. The barrier between private religious practices and \"magic\" is permeable, and Ovid gives a vivid account of rites at the fringes of the public Feralia festival that are indistinguishable from magic: an old woman squats among a circle of younger women, sews up a fish-head, smears it with pitch, then pierces and roasts it to \"bind hostile tongues to silence\". By this she invokes Tacita, the \"Silent One\" of the underworld.\n\nArchaeology confirms the widespread use of binding spells (\"defixiones\"), magical papyri and so-called \"voodoo dolls\" from a very early era. Around 250 \"defixiones\" have been recovered just from Roman Britain, in both urban and rural settings. Some seek straightforward, usually gruesome revenge, often for a lover's offense or rejection. Others appeal for divine redress of wrongs, in terms familiar to any Roman magistrate, and promise a portion of the value (usually small) of lost or stolen property in return for its restoration. None of these \"defixiones\" seem produced by, or on behalf of the elite, who had more immediate recourse to human law and justice. Similar traditions existed throughout the empire, persisting until around the 7th century AD, well into the Christian era.\n\nRome's government, politics and religion were dominated by an educated, male, landowning military aristocracy. Approximately half Rome's population were slave or free non-citizens. Most others were plebeians, the lowest class of Roman citizens. Less than a quarter of adult males had voting rights; far fewer could actually exercise them. Women had no vote. However, all official business was conducted under the divine gaze and auspices, in the name of the senate and people of Rome. \"In a very real sense the senate was the caretaker of the Romans’ relationship with the divine, just as it was the caretaker of their relationship with other humans\".\n\nThe links between religious and political life were vital to Rome's internal governance, diplomacy and development from kingdom, to Republic and to Empire. Post-regal politics dispersed the civil and religious authority of the kings more or less equitably among the patrician elite: kingship was replaced by two annually elected consular offices. In the early Republic, as presumably in the regal era, plebeians were excluded from high religious and civil office, and could be punished for offenses against laws of which they had no knowledge. They resorted to strikes and violence to break the oppressive patrician monopolies of high office, public priesthood, and knowledge of civil and religious law. The senate appointed Camillus as dictator to handle the emergency; he negotiated a settlement, and sanctified it by the dedication of a temple to Concordia. The religious calendars and laws were eventually made public. Plebeian tribunes were appointed, with sacrosanct status and the right of veto in legislative debate. In principle, the augural and pontifical colleges were now open to plebeians. In reality, the patrician and to a lesser extent, plebeian nobility dominated religious and civil office throughout the Republican era and beyond.\n\nWhile the new plebeian nobility made social, political and religious inroads on traditionally patrician preserves, their electorate maintained their distinctive political traditions and religious cults. During the Punic crisis, popular cult to Dionysus emerged from southern Italy; Dionysus was equated with Father Liber, the inventor of plebeian augury and personification of plebeian freedoms, and with Roman Bacchus. Official consternation at these enthusiastic, unofficial Bacchanalia cults was expressed as moral outrage at their supposed subversion, and was followed by ferocious suppression. Much later, a statue of Marsyas, the \"silen\" of Dionysus flayed by Apollo, became a focus of brief symbolic resistance to Augustus' censorship. Augustus himself claimed the patronage of Venus and Apollo; but his settlement appealed to all classes. Where loyalty was implicit, no divine hierarchy need be politically enforced; Liber's festival continued.\n\nThe Augustan settlement built upon a cultural shift in Roman society. In the middle Republican era, even Scipio's tentative hints that he might be Jupiter's special protege sat ill with his colleagues. Politicians of the later Republic were less equivocal; both Sulla and Pompey claimed special relationships with Venus. Julius Caesar went further; he claimed her as his ancestress, and thus an intimate source of divine inspiration for his personal character and policies. In 63 BC, his appointment as \"pontifex maximus\" \"signaled his emergence as a major player in Roman politics\". Likewise, political candidates could sponsor temples, priesthoods and the immensely popular, spectacular public \"ludi\" and \"munera\" whose provision became increasingly indispensable to the factional politics of the Late Republic. Under the principate, such opportunities were limited by law; priestly and political power were consolidated in the person of the princeps (\"first citizen\").\n\n\"Because of you we are living, because of you we can travel the seas, because of you we enjoy liberty and wealth.\" \"A thanksgiving prayer offered in Naples' harbour to the princeps Augustus, on his return from Alexandria in 14 AD, shortly before his death.\"\nBy the end of the regal period Rome had developed into a city-state, with a large plebeian, artisan class excluded from the old patrician \"gentes\" and from the state priesthoods. The city had commercial and political treaties with its neighbours; according to tradition, Rome's Etruscan connections established a temple to Minerva on the predominantly plebeian Aventine; she became part of a new Capitoline triad of Jupiter, Juno and Minerva, installed in a Capitoline temple, built in an Etruscan style and dedicated in a new September festival, \"Epulum Jovis\". These are supposedly the first Roman deities whose images were adorned, as if noble guests, at their own inaugural banquet.\n\nRome's diplomatic agreement with its neighbours of Latium confirmed the Latin league and brought the cult of Diana from Aricia to the Aventine. and established on the Aventine in the \"commune Latinorum Dianae templum\": At about the same time, the temple of Jupiter Latiaris was built on the Alban mount, its stylistic resemblance to the new Capitoline temple pointing to Rome's inclusive hegemony. Rome's affinity to the Latins allowed two Latin cults within the \"pomoerium\": and the cult to Hercules at the \"ara maxima\" in the Forum Boarium was established through commercial connections with Tibur. and the Tusculan cult of Castor as the patron of cavalry found a home close to the Forum Romanum: Juno Sospita and Juno Regina were brought from Italy, and Fortuna Primigenia from Praeneste. In 217, Venus was brought from Sicily and installed in a temple on the Capitoline hill.\n\nThe disasters of the early part of Rome's second Punic War were attributed, in Livy's account, to a growth of superstitious cults, errors in augury and the neglect of Rome's traditional gods, whose anger was expressed directly in Rome's defeat at Cannae (216 BC). The Sibilline books were consulted. They recommended a general vowing of the \"ver sacrum\" and in the following year, the burial of two Greeks and two Gauls; not the first or the last of its kind, according to Livy.\n\nThe introduction of new or equivalent deities coincided with Rome's most significant aggressive and defensive military forays. In 206 BC the Sibylline books commended the introduction of cult to the aniconic Magna Mater (Great Mother) from Pessinus, installed on the Palatine in 191 BC. The mystery cult to Bacchus followed; it was suppressed as subversive and unruly by decree of the Senate in 186 BC. Greek deities were brought within the sacred pomerium: temples were dedicated to Juventas (Hebe) in 191 BC, Diana (Artemis) in 179 BC, Mars (Ares) in 138 BC), and to Bona Dea, equivalent to Fauna, the female counterpart of the rural Faunus, supplemented by the Greek goddess Damia. Further Greek influences on cult images and types represented the Roman Penates as forms of the Greek Dioscuri. The military-political adventurers of the Later Republic introduced the Phrygian goddess Ma (identified with Roman Bellona, the Egyptian mystery-goddess Isis and Persian Mithras.)\nThe spread of Greek literature, mythology and philosophy offered Roman poets and antiquarians a model for the interpretation of Rome's festivals and rituals, and the embellishment of its mythology. Ennius translated the work of Graeco-Sicilian Euhemerus, who explained the genesis of the gods as apotheosized mortals. In the last century of the Republic, Epicurean and particularly Stoic interpretations were a preoccupation of the literate elite, most of whom held – or had held – high office and traditional Roman priesthoods; notably, Scaevola and the polymath Varro. For Varro – well versed in Euhemerus' theory – popular religious observance was based on a necessary fiction; what the people believed was not itself the truth, but their observance led them to as much higher truth as their limited capacity could deal with. Whereas in popular belief deities held power over mortal lives, the skeptic might say that mortal devotion had made gods of mortals, and these same gods were only sustained by devotion and cult.\n\nJust as Rome itself claimed the favour of the gods, so did some individual Romans. In the mid-to-late Republican era, and probably much earlier, many of Rome's leading clans acknowledged a divine or semi-divine ancestor and laid personal claim to their favour and cult, along with a share of their divinity. Most notably in the very late Republic, the Julii claimed Venus Genetrix as ancestor; this would be one of many foundations for the Imperial cult. The claim was further elaborated and justified in Vergil's poetic, Imperial vision of the past.\nIn the late Republic, the Marian reforms lowered an existing property bar on conscription and increased the efficiency of Rome's armies but made them available as instruments of political ambition and factional conflict. The consequent civil wars led to changes at every level of Roman society. Augustus' principate established peace and subtly transformed Rome's religious life – or, in the new ideology of Empire, restored it (see below).\n\nTowards the end of the Republic, religious and political offices became more closely intertwined; the office of \"pontifex maximus\" became a \"de facto\" consular prerogative. Augustus was personally vested with an extraordinary breadth of political, military and priestly powers; at first temporarily, then for his lifetime. He acquired or was granted an unprecedented number of Rome's major priesthoods, including that of \"pontifex maximus\"; as he invented none, he could claim them as traditional honours. His reforms were represented as adaptive, restorative and regulatory, rather than innovative; most notably his elevation (and membership) of the ancient Arvales, his timely promotion of the plebeian Compitalia shortly before his election and his patronage of the Vestals as a visible restoration of Roman morality. Augustus obtained the \"pax deorum\", maintained it for the rest of his reign and adopted a successor to ensure its continuation. This remained a primary religious and social duty of emperors.\n\nThe Roman Empire expanded to include different peoples and cultures; in principle, Rome followed the same inclusionist policies that had recognised Latin, Etruscan and other Italian peoples, cults and deities as Roman. Those who acknowledged Rome's hegemony retained their own cult and religious calendars, independent of Roman religious law. Newly municipal Sabratha built a Capitolium near its existing temple to Liber Pater and Serapis. Autonomy and concord were official policy, but new foundations by Roman citizens or their Romanised allies were likely to follow Roman cultic models. Romanisation offered distinct political and practical advantages, especially to local elites. All the known effigies from the 2nd century AD forum at Cuicul are of emperors or Concordia. By the middle of the 1st century AD, Gaulish Vertault seems to have abandoned its native cultic sacrifice of horses and dogs in favour of a newly established, Romanised cult nearby: by the end of that century, Sabratha's so-called tophet was no longer in use. Colonial and later Imperial provincial dedications to Rome's Capitoline Triad were a logical choice, not a centralised legal requirement. Major cult centres to \"non-Roman\" deities continued to prosper: notable examples include the magnificent Alexandrian Serapium, the temple of Aesculapeus at Pergamum and Apollo's sacred wood at Antioch.\n\nThe overall scarcity of evidence for smaller or local cults does not always imply their neglect; votive inscriptions are inconsistently scattered throughout Rome's geography and history. Inscribed dedications were an expensive public declaration, one to be expected within the Graeco-Roman cultural ambit but by no means universal. Innumerable smaller, personal or more secretive cults would have persisted and left no trace.\n\nMilitary settlement within the empire and at its borders broadened the context of \"Romanitas\". Rome's citizen-soldiers set up altars to multiple deities, including their traditional gods, the Imperial genius and local deities – sometimes with the usefully open-ended dedication to the \"diis deabusque omnibus\" (all the gods and goddesses). They also brought Roman \"domestic\" deities and cult practices with them. By the same token, the later granting of citizenship to provincials and their conscription into the legions brought their new cults into the Roman military.\n\nTraders, legions and other travellers brought home cults originating from Egypt, Greece, Iberia, India and Persia. The cults of Cybele, Isis, Mithras, and Sol Invictus were particularly important. Some of those were initiatory religions of intense personal significance, similar to Christianity in those respects.\n\nIn the early Imperial era, the princeps (lit. \"first\" or \"foremost\" among citizens) was offered \"genius\"-cult as the symbolic \"paterfamilias\" of Rome. His cult had further precedents: popular, unofficial cult offered to powerful benefactors in Rome: the kingly, god-like honours granted a Roman general on the day of his triumph; and in the divine honours paid to Roman magnates in the Greek East from at least 195 BC.\n\nThe deification of deceased emperors had precedent in Roman domestic cult to the \"dii parentes\" (deified ancestors) and the mythic apotheosis of Rome's founders. A deceased emperor granted apotheosis by his successor and the Senate became an official State \"divus\" (divinity). Members of the Imperial family could be granted similar honours and cult; an Emperor's deceased wife, sister or daughter could be promoted to \"diva\" (female divinity).\n\nThe first and last Roman known as a living \"divus\" was Julius Caesar, who seems to have aspired to divine monarchy; he was murdered soon after. Greek allies had their own traditional cults to rulers as divine benefactors, and offered similar cult to Caesar's successor, Augustus, who accepted with the cautious proviso that expatriate Roman citizens refrain from such worship; it might prove fatal. By the end of his reign, Augustus had appropriated Rome's political apparatus – and most of its religious cults – within his \"reformed\" and thoroughly integrated system of government. Towards the end of his life, he cautiously allowed cult to his \"numen\". By then the Imperial cult apparatus was fully developed, first in the Eastern Provinces, then in the West. Provincial Cult centres offered the amenities and opportunities of a major Roman town within a local context; bathhouses, shrines and temples to Roman and local deities, amphitheatres and festivals. In the early Imperial period, the promotion of local elites to Imperial priesthood gave them Roman citizenship.\n\nIn an empire of great religious and cultural diversity, the Imperial cult offered a common Roman identity and dynastic stability. In Rome, the framework of government was recognisably Republican. In the Provinces, this would not have mattered; in Greece, the emperor was \"not only endowed with special, super-human abilities, but... he was indeed a visible god\" and the little Greek town of Akraiphia could offer official cult to \"liberating Zeus Nero for all eternity\".\n\nIn Rome, state cult to a living emperor acknowledged his rule as divinely approved and constitutional. As princeps (first citizen) he must respect traditional Republican mores; given virtually monarchic powers, he must restrain them. He was not a living \"divus\" but father of his country (\"pater patriae\"), its pontifex maximus (greatest priest) and at least notionally, its leading Republican. When he died, his ascent to heaven, or his descent to join the \"dii manes\" was decided by a vote in the Senate. As a \"divus\", he could receive much the same honours as any other state deity – libations of wine, garlands, incense, hymns and sacrificial oxen at games and festivals. What he did in return for these favours is unknown, but literary hints and the later adoption of \"divus\" as a title for Christian Saints suggest him as a heavenly intercessor. In Rome, official cult to a living emperor was directed to his \"genius\"; a small number refused this honour and there is no evidence of any emperor receiving more than that. In the crises leading up to the Dominate, Imperial titles and honours multiplied, reaching a peak under Diocletian. Emperors before him had attempted to guarantee traditional cults as the core of Roman identity and well-being; refusal of cult undermined the state and was treasonous.\n\nFor at least a century before the establishment of the Augustan principate, Jews and Judaism were tolerated in Rome by diplomatic treaty with Judaea's Hellenised elite. Diaspora Jews had much in common with the overwhelmingly Hellenic or Hellenised communities that surrounded them. Early Italian synagogues have left few traces; but one was dedicated in Ostia around the mid-1st century BC and several more are attested during the Imperial period. Judaea's enrollment as a client kingdom in 63 BC increased the Jewish diaspora; in Rome, this led to closer official scrutiny of their religion. Their synagogues were recognised as legitimate \"collegia\" by Julius Caesar. By the Augustan era, the city of Rome was home to several thousand Jews. In some periods under Roman rule, Jews were legally exempt from official sacrifice, under certain conditions. Judaism was a \"superstitio\" to Cicero, but the Church Father Tertullian described it as \"religio licita\" (an officially permitted religion) in contrast to Christianity.\n\nRoman investigations into early Christianity found it an irreligious, novel, disobedient, even atheistic sub-sect of Judaism: it appeared to deny all forms of religion and was therefore \"superstitio\". By the end of the Imperial era, Nicene Christianity was the one permitted Roman \"religio\"; all other cults were heretical or pagan \"superstitiones\".\n\nAfter the Great Fire of Rome in 64 AD, Emperor Nero accused the Christians as convenient scapegoats, who were later persecuted and killed. From that point on, Roman official policy towards Christianity tended towards persecution. During the various Imperial crises of the 3rd century, \"contemporaries were predisposed to decode any crisis in religious terms\", regardless of their allegiance to particular practices or belief systems. Christianity drew its traditional base of support from the powerless, who seemed to have no religious stake in the well-being of the Roman State, and therefore threatened its existence. The majority of Rome's elite continued to observe various forms of inclusive Hellenistic monism; Neoplatonism in particular accommodated the miraculous and the ascetic within a traditional Graeco-Roman cultic framework. Christians saw these practices as ungodly, and a primary cause of economic and political crisis.\n\nIn the wake of religious riots in Egypt, the emperor Decius decreed that all subjects of the Empire must actively seek to benefit the state through witnessed and certified sacrifice to \"ancestral gods\" or suffer a penalty: only Jews were exempt. Decius' edict appealed to whatever common \"mos maiores\" might reunite a politically and socially fractured Empire and its multitude of cults; no ancestral gods were specified by name. The fulfillment of sacrificial obligation by loyal subjects would define them and their gods as Roman. Apostasy was sought, rather than capital punishment. A year after its due deadline, the edict expired.\n\nValerian singled out Christianity as a particularly self-interested and subversive foreign cult, outlawed its assemblies and urged Christians to sacrifice to Rome's traditional gods. In another edict, he described Christianity as a threat to Empire – not yet at its heart but close to it, among Rome's equites and Senators. Christian apologists interpreted his eventual fate – a disgraceful capture and death – as divine judgement. The next forty years were peaceful; the Christian church grew stronger and its literature and theology gained a higher social and intellectual profile, due in part to its own search for political toleration and theological coherence. Origen discussed theological issues with traditionalist elites in a common Neoplatonist frame of reference – he had written to Decius' predecessor Philip the Arab in similar vein – and Hippolytus recognised a \"pagan\" basis in Christian heresies. The Christian churches were disunited; Paul of Samosata, Bishop of Antioch was deposed by a synod of 268 both for his doctrines, and for his unworthy, indulgent, elite lifestyle. Meanwhile, Aurelian (270-75) appealed for harmony among his soldiers (\"concordia militum\"), stabilised the Empire and its borders and successfully established an official, Hellenic form of unitary cult to the Palmyrene \"Sol Invictus\" in Rome's Campus Martius.\n\nIn 295, Maximilian of Tebessa refused military service; in 298 Marcellus renounced his military oath. Both were executed for treason; both were Christians. At some time around 302, a report of ominous haruspicy in Diocletian's \"domus\" and a subsequent (but undated) dictat of placatory sacrifice by the entire military triggered a series of edicts against Christianity. The first (303 AD) \"ordered the destruction of church buildings and Christian texts, forbade services to be held, degraded officials who were Christians, re-enslaved imperial freedmen who were Christians, and reduced the legal rights of all Christians... [Physical] or capital punishments were not imposed on them\" but soon after, several Christians suspected of attempted arson in the palace were executed. The second edict threatened Christian priests with imprisonment and the third offered them freedom if they performed sacrifice. An edict of 304 enjoined universal sacrifice to traditional gods, in terms that recall the Decian edict.\n\nIn some cases and in some places the edicts were strictly enforced: some Christians resisted and were imprisoned or martyred. Others complied. Some local communities were not only pre-dominantly Christian, but powerful and influential; and some provincial authorities were lenient, notably the Caesar in Gaul, Constantius Chlorus, the father of Constantine I. Diocletian's successor Galerius maintained anti-Christian policy until his deathbed revocation in 311, when he asked Christians to pray for him. \"This meant an official recognition of their importance in the religious world of the Roman empire, although one of the tetrarchs, Maximinus Daia, still oppressed Christians in his part of the empire up to 313.\"\n\nThe conversion of Constantine I ended the Christian persecutions. Constantine successfully balanced his own role as an instrument of the \"pax deorum\" with the power of the Christian priesthoods in determining what was (in traditional Roman terms) auspicious – or in Christian terms, what was orthodox. The edict of Milan (313) redefined Imperial ideology as one of mutual toleration. Constantine had triumphed under the \"signum\" (sign) of the Christ: Christianity was therefore officially embraced along with traditional religions and from his new Eastern capital, Constantine could be seen to embody both Christian and Hellenic religious interests. He passed laws to protect Christians from persecution; he also funded the building of churches, including Saint Peter's basilica. He may have officially ended – or attempted to end – blood sacrifices to the \"genius\" of living emperors, though his Imperial iconography and court ceremonial outstripped Diocletian's in their supra-human elevation of the Imperial hierarch.\n\nConstantine promoted orthodoxy in Christian doctrine, so that Christianity might become a unitary force, rather than divisive. He summoned Christian bishops to a meeting, later known as the First Council of Nicaea, at which some 318 bishops (mostly easterners) debated and decided what was orthodox, and what was heresy. The meeting reached consensus on the Nicene Creed. At Constantine's death, he was honored as a Christian and as an Imperial \"divus\". Later, Philostorgius would criticize those Christians who offered sacrifice at statues of the \"divus\" Constantine.\n\nChristianity and traditional Roman religion proved incompatible. From the 2nd century onward, the Church Fathers had condemned the diverse non-Christian religions practiced throughout the Empire as \"pagan\". Constantine's actions have been regarded by some scholars as causing the rapid growth of Christianity, though revisionist scholars disagree. Constantine's unique form of Imperial orthodoxy did not outlast him. After his death in 337, two of his sons, Constantius II and Constans, took over the leadership of the empire and re-divided their Imperial inheritance. Constantius was an Arian and his brothers were Nicene Christians.\n\nConstantine's nephew Julian rejected the \"Galilean madness\" of his upbringing for an idiosyncratic synthesis of neo-Platonism, Stoic asceticism and universal solar cult. Julian became Augustus in 361 and actively but vainly fostered a religious and cultural pluralism, attempting a restitution of non-Christian practices and rights. He proposed the rebuilding of Jerusalem's temple as an Imperial project and argued against the \"irrational impieties\" of Christian doctrine. His attempt to restore an Augustan form of principate, with himself as \"primus inter pares\" ended with his death in 363 in Persia, after which his reforms were reversed or abandoned. The empire once again fell under Christian control, this time permanently.\n\nIn 380, under Theodosius I, Nicene Christianity became the official state religion of the Roman Empire. Christian heretics as well as non-Christians were subject to exclusion from public life or persecution, though Rome's original religious hierarchy and many aspects of its ritual influenced Christian forms, and many pre-Christian beliefs and practices survived in Christian festivals and local traditions.\n\nThe Western emperor Gratian refused the office of \"pontifex maximus\", and against the protests of the senate, removed the altar of Victory from the senate house and began the disestablishment of the Vestals. Theodosius I briefly re-united the Empire: in 391 he officially adopted Nicene Christianity as the Imperial religion and ended official support for all other creeds and cults. He not only refused to restore Victory to the senate-house, but extinguished the Sacred fire of the Vestals and vacated their temple: the senatorial protest was expressed in a letter by Quintus Aurelius Symmachus to the Western and Eastern emperors. Ambrose, the influential Bishop of Milan and future saint, wrote urging the rejection of Symmachus's request for tolerance. Yet Theodosius accepted comparison with Hercules and Jupiter as a living divinity in the panegyric of Pacatus, and despite his active dismantling of Rome's traditional cults and priesthoods could commend his heirs to its overwhelmingly Hellenic senate in traditional Hellenic terms. He was the last emperor of both East and West.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30235121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30235121", "title": "Richard Cutts (bishop)", "text": "Richard Cutts (bishop)\n\nRichard Stanley Cutts was the Anglican Bishop of Argentina and Eastern South America. He acted as Episcopal Commissary for the Falkland Islands, on behalf of the Archbishop of Canterbury, from 1978 until the outbreak of the Falklands War when Episcopal oversight was transferred to the Bishop to the Forces. Cutts was born in 1919 and died in 1997 of a heart attack.\n\nBorn in Argentina, and fluent in Spanish as well as English, French, and several African languages, Cutts was educated at Felsted School in Essex, England. He graduated from King's College London in 1947, being associated with Warminster. He was ordained deacon in 1951 and priest in 1952 at Guildford Cathedral while serving as curate at Godalming, 1951-1956.\n\nIn 1956, Cutts went to Zululand, South Africa, serving in the missionary district of Etalaneni, Nkandla, appointed as Director of Missions there from 1957 to 1963, then at Kambula Mission, also in Zululand, from 1963 to 1965.\n\nIn the latter year he transferred to the western interior of South Africa, the Northern Cape, to take up an appointment as Director of Missions and Rector of St Mary’s, Kuruman, Diocese of Kimberley and Kuruman. In 1970 to 1971 Cutts served as Archdeacon of Kuruman.\n\nA sacristan who remembers his sojourn in the Northern Cape recalls his listening to tape cassette recordings, while traveling the long distances between towns, to keep up his Spanish. He had a wife, Rene, and four children.\n\nCutts was appointed Dean of Salisbury, Diocese of Mashonaland, in what was then Rhodesia (now Harare, Zimbabwe) in 1971. Here he served until 1975, in which year he was appointed Archdeacon of the City of Salisbury.\n\nDuring 1975 Cutts was ordained to the episcopate and succeeded Cyril Tucker as Bishop of Argentina and Eastern South America and of the Falkland Islands. The consecration was officiated by bishops Bill Flagg and David Leake who were at the time assistant bishops in Chile and Northern Argentina respectively, at the Cathedral Church of St John the Baptist, Buenos Aires on 12 October 1975.\n\nCutts was appointed the Archbishop of Canterbury's commissary in the Falkland Islands in 1978. In 1982, during the Falklands War, many British troops came under the episcopal oversight of the Bishop to the Forces.\n"}
{"id": "817050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=817050", "title": "Rosh yeshiva", "text": "Rosh yeshiva\n\nRosh yeshiva (; pl. Heb. \"\"; pl. Yeshivish: \"rosh yeshivahs\") is the title given to the dean of a Talmudical academy (\"yeshiva\"). It is a compound word of the Hebrew words \"rosh\" (\"head\") and \"yeshiva\" (a school of religious Jewish education). The rosh yeshiva is required to have a comprehensive knowledge of the Talmud and the ability to analyse and present new perspectives, called \"chidushim\" (novellae) verbally and often in print.\n\nThe primary role of the rosh yeshiva is not simply to be the dean, but is generally to say the highest-level lecture in the yeshiva, which is usually a program of at least two years. Students who have studied in a yeshiva are generally known as \"students of the rosh yeshiva\", as his lecture is the one in which they usually attain their method of Talmudic analysis and critical reasoning, and this method is based on the particular style of that rosh yeshiva. In addition, since yeshivas play a central role in the life of certain communities within Orthodox Judaism, the position of rosh yeshiva is more than just his position within the yeshiva. A rosh yeshiva is often seen as a pillar of leadership in extended communities. In Hasidic Judaism, the role of rosh yeshiva is secondary to the rebbe, who is head of the Hasidic dynasty that controls it. In many Hasidic groups, the rosh yeshiva of a school will be the son or son-in-law of the rebbe, the assumed heir of the rebbe. However, the role that yeshivohs have within Hasidic communities is not nearly as important as it is in Lithuanian Jewish (Litvishe) communities. Hasidic students usually get married at the age of 18, which – in most cases – is the end of their yeshiva education, while students in the Lithuanian Jewish communities continue to study, at a minimum till they get married starting at age 23, and the vast majority continue their studies after marriage. As a result, the role that a rosh yeshiva plays in Lithuanian Jewish communities is much more important than in the Hasidic ones.\n\nYeshivas continue the scholarly traditions of the sages of the Mishnah and Talmud who often headed academies with hundreds of students. In the Talmudic academies in Babylonia, the rosh yeshiva was referred to as the \"reish metivta\" (\"head of the academy\" in Aramaic) and had the title of \"gaon\".\n\nThe general role of the rosh yeshiva is to oversee the Talmudic studies and practical matters. The rosh yeshiva will often give the highest \"shiur\" (class). He is also the one to decide whether to grant permission for students to undertake classes for rabbinical ordination, known as \"semicha\".\n\nDepending on the size of the yeshiva, there may be several rosh yeshivas, sometimes from one extended family. There are familial dynasties of rosh yeshivas, for example, the Soloveitchik, Finkel, Feinstein, Kotler, and Kook families, which head many yeshivas in the United States and Israel.\n\nPrior to the Holocaust, most of the large yeshivas were based in Eastern Europe. Presently, the majority of the world's yeshivas and their rosh yeshivas are located in the United States and Israel.\n\nThe following is a list of some famous rosh yeshivas:\n\nThe title \"Rosh mesivta\" (alt. Rosh metivta), has a long history, going back many centuries.\n\nThe role is comparable to a dean in a university.\n\nThe personal and ethical development of the students in the yeshiva is usually covered by a different personality, known as the \"mashgiach\" or spiritual supervisor. This concept, introduced by the Mussar movement in the 19th century, led to perfection of character as one of the aims of attending a yeshiva. One typical and influential \"mashgiach\" was Rabbi Eliyahu Eliezer Dessler.\n"}
{"id": "54109593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54109593", "title": "Shah Ghazi Rustam", "text": "Shah Ghazi Rustam\n\nShah Ghazi Rustam (), was the king of the Bavand dynasty of Mazandaran, ruling from 1142 to 1165. He expanded the borders of the kingdom at the expense of his neighbors, particularly the Ismailis and the Seljuks. He established a Bavandid presence in Gilan as a result of his frequent vengeful raids against the Ismailis, who had assassinated his son and heir, Girdbazu. He also brought Qumis and Ray under Bavandid control during his wars against the Seljuks and the Karakhanids.\n\nShah Ghazi's reign represented the pinnacle of Bavandid power and influence in Iran, and Shah Ghazi himself was considered the most illustrious king of the dynasty.\n\nThe name of Shah Ghazi Rustam is combination of Persian and Arabic—\"shah\" meaning king in Persian, and \"ghazi\" meaning warrior in Arabic. \"Rustam\" was the name of the popular mythological Iranian warrior Rostam. Shah Ghazi Rustam's \"laqab\" was Nusrat al-Din (\"victory of the religion\").\n\nShah Ghazi was born in ca. 1105, as the son of Ali I, whose father, Shahriyar IV (r. 1074–1114), was the then Bavandid king of Mazandaran. The Bavand kingdom was during this period a vassal of the Seljuk Empire, which had a decade earlier under sultan Malik-Shah I (r. 1072–1092) controlled a vast area stretching from the Hindu Kush to eastern Anatolia and from Central Asia to the Persian Gulf. However, after the assassination of Malik-Shah and his vizier Nizam al-Mulk in 1092, the Seljuk Empire fell into decline. Shahriyar IV had thus been able to disobey the orders of the Seljuk sultan Muhammad I Tapar (r. 1105–1118) several times. After Shahriyar IV's death in 1114, his son Qarin III succeeded him, and alienated, thus weakening the Bavand kingdom. Qarin later fell ill, and died in 1117 after he asked the local people to pledge allegiance to his son Rustam III, who succeeded him. Rustam III's reign, however, was even more shortlived—he was poisoned by his stepmother, the sister of Muhammad I Tapar, who wanted to marry Ali I, who ascended the Bavandid throne.\n\nShah Ghazi is first mentioned in 1119, when the Seljuk sultan Ahmad Sanjar (r. 1118-1157) ordered Ali to meet him at his court, who disobeyed, and instead sent Shah Ghazi. Sanjar, however, was extremely unsatisfied with Shah Ghazi and dismissed him after four months. In 1131, Sanjar ordered Ali to join him in a expedition to Iraq. Shah Ghazi was once again sent to Sanjar, where he distinguished himself and was wounded at the battle of Dinavar in 25 May 1132, where Sanjar emerged victorious. Sanjar then granted Shah Ghazi several honors and allowed him to return to his father in Mazandaran.\n\nIn 1141/1142, the Khwarazm-Shah Atsiz (r. 1127-1156) invaded Khorasan and seized Gorgan from Ali. He then imprisoned the local Bavandid governor Rustam Kabudjama. Shah Ghazi, without the agreement of his father, then met Atsiz, and persuaded him to release Rustam Kabudjama. Ali, after hearing about his son meeting with Atsiz without his approval, criticized his actions. Some time later, Ali, who was too old to rule, abdicated in favor of Shah Ghazi. Ali died three years later at Tamisha and was buried in Sari.\n\nShah Ghazi's coronation was most likely done in traditional Bavandid fashion. In accordance with the ancient Iranian style, the coronation lasted seven days, and included the typical banquets, exhilarations, giving of gifts, whilst the renowned statesmen, local rulers, and members of the royal house gathered from all the landscapes. On the eight day, after the felicitations were complete, Shah Ghazi ascended the throne, fastened the royal waistband, and confirmed the governors in their offices.\n\nShah Ghazi was buried in the same site as his father by the prominent figures of Mazandaran, including the \"ispahbad\" Majd al-Din Dara, Sabiq al-Dawla Qazvini, Sayyid Hasim Alawi, and Amir Surkhab.\n\n"}
{"id": "10739092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10739092", "title": "Sitatapatra", "text": "Sitatapatra\n\nSitātapatrā (Sanskrit: \"White Parasol\",) is a protector against supernatural danger. She is venerated in both the Mahayana and Vajrayana traditions. She is also known as \"Uṣṇīṣa Sitātapatrā\". It is believed that Sitātapatrā is a powerful independent deity emanated by Gautama Buddha from his uṣṇīṣa. Whoever practices her mantra will be reborn in Amitābha's pure land of Sukhāvatī as well as gaining protection against supernatural danger and witchcraft.\n\nHer name is composed of \"sita\" (white) and \"ātapatrā\" (parasol or umbrella). \n\nThere are several different forms of Sitatapatra including: \nwith one face and two arms; with three faces and six arms; with three faces and eight arms; with three faces and ten arms; with five faces and ten arms; and, with 1000 faces, 1000 arms and 1000 legs.\n\nThe Śūraṅgama Mantra of the \"Śūraṅgama Sūtra\" is the most commonly practiced mantra invoking her. According to Thubten Zopa Rinpoche, the \"Great White Umbrella\" is a sādhanā for healing illness, dispelling interferences and spirit possession, quelling disasters, and bringing auspiciousness. To do practice in full requires a kriyātantra abhiṣeka of Sitātapatrā.\n\nSitātapatrā is one of the most complex Vajrayana goddesses. According to Miranda Shaw in the \"Buddhist Goddesses of India\", Sitātapatrā emerged from Buddha's uṣṇīṣa when he was in the Trāyastriṃśa heaven. The Buddha announced her role to \"cut asunder completely all malignant demons, to cut asunder all the spells of others...to turn aside all enemies and dangers and hatred.\" Sitātapatrā's benign and beautiful form belies her ferocity as she is a \"fierce, terrifying goddess, garlanded by flames, a pulverizer of enemies and demons.\"\n\nIn the Mahayana \"Sitatapatra Sutra\", she is called \"Aparājita\" \"Undefeatable, Unconquerable\" and is also identified as a form of goddess Tārā.\n\nIn other sutras, she is regarded as a female counterpart to Avalokiteśvara, the bodhisattva of compassion. Like him, Sitātapatrā manifests in many elaborate forms: having a thousand faces, arms and legs, or simply as a feminine deity of great beauty. Known foremost for her \"white parasol\" she is most frequently attributed with the \"golden wheel\". The auspiciousness of the turning of the dharma wheel is symbolic of Buddhism, both in its teachings and realizations.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "34719423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34719423", "title": "Tachara", "text": "Tachara\n\nThe Tachara, or the Tachar Château, also referred to as the Palace of Darius the Great, was the exclusive building of Darius I at Persepolis, Iran. It is located 70 km northeast of the modern city of Shiraz in Fars Province.\n\nThe construction dates back to the time of the Achaemenid Empire (550 BC–330 BC). The building has been attributed to Darius I, but only a small portion of it was finished under his rule. It was completed after the death of Darius I in 486, by his son and successor, Xerxes I, who called it a \"taçara\" in Old Persian, translated to \"winter palace\". It was then used by Artaxerxes I. Its ruins are immediately south of the Apadana.\n\nIn the 4th century BC, following his invasion of Achaemenid Persia in 330 BC, Alexander the Great allowed his troops to loot Persepolis. This palace was one of the few structures that escaped destruction in the burning of the complex by Alexander the Great's army.\n\nThe Tachara stands back to back to the Apadana, and is oriented southward. Measuring , it is the smallest of the \"palace buildings\" on the Terrace at Persepolis.\n\nAs the oldest of the palace structures on the Terrace, it was constructed of the finest quality gray stone. The surface was almost completely black and polished to a glossy brilliance. This surface treatment combined with the high quality stone is the reason for it being the most intact of all ruins at Persepolis today. Although its mud block walls have completely disintegrated, the enormous stone blocks of the door and window frames have survived.\nIts main room is a mere with three rows of four columns. A complete window measuring was carved from a single block of stone and weighed 18 tons. The door frame was fashioned from three separate monoliths and weighed 75 tons.\n\nLike many other parts of Persepolis, the Tachara has reliefs of tribute-bearing dignitaries. There are sculptured figures of lance-bearers carrying large rectangular wicker shields, attendants or servants with towel and perfume bottles, and a royal hero killing lions and monsters. There is also a bas-relief at the main doorway depicting Darius I wearing a crenellated crown covered with sheets of gold.\n\nThe Tachara is connected to the south court by a double reversed stairway. Later under the reign of Artaxerxes III, a new stairway was added to the northwest of the Tachara which is connected to the main hall through a new doorway. On walls of these stairways, there are sculptured representations of figures such as servants, attendants and soldiers dressed in Median and Persian costumes, as well as gift-bearing delegations flanking carved inscriptions.\n\nDarius the Great's pride at the superb craftsmanship is evident by his ordering the following inscription on all 18 niches and window frames: \"Frames of stone, made for the Palace of King Darius\".\n\nThe function of the building, however, was more ceremonial than residential. Upon completion, it served in conjunction with the earlier south oriented entrance stairs as the Nowruz venue until the other buildings that would comprise Persepolis could be finished, which included a provisional union of the Apadana, the Throne Hall and a Banquet Hall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49523684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49523684", "title": "Thomas Baddy", "text": "Thomas Baddy\n\nThomas Baddy (died 1729) was an Independent minister and author. \n\nLittle is known about his family and early life, but he had a brother, Owen. He was described as being from Wrexham in 1690. He studied in Rathmell, Yorkshire at Frankland's Academy beginning in 1689, and then at the Common Fund Board until 1693.\n\nHe was a minister in Denbigh of the Independent congregation from 1693 until his death. During that time, he also filled in as needed at the Bala and Wrexham churches. Baddy was an author, translator, and wrote hymns, considered \"the earliest known attempts at hymnody among Welsh Dissenters.\" A series was published in 1703 and \"Caniad Salomon\" was published in 1725. He translated \"Christian's Passover\" (\"Pasc y Cristion\") and \"A Work by T. Wadswoth\" (1713) into Welsh.\n\nBaddy, who was well-off financially, married Anne Salusbury of Galltfaenan, Denbighshire and they had a daughter who married a man with the surname Pugh and another who married Rev. James Jardine, who was also an Independent minister in Denbigh. He died in June 1729.\n"}
{"id": "7456117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7456117", "title": "Vedi (altar)", "text": "Vedi (altar)\n\nVedi is the term for \"sacrificial altar\" in the Vedic religion. Such altars were an elevated enclosure, generally strewed with Kusha grass, and having receptacles for the sacrificial fire; it was of various shapes, but usually narrow in the middle.\n\n\nThe \"uttaravedi\" was in the shape of a falcon (\"alajacita\" = \"piled up in the shape of the bird Alaja\"), and was piled up with bricks in the Agnicayana ritual.\n\nVedic altars are described in the circum-Vedic texts dealing with Kalpa (the proper performance of sacrifice), notably the Satapatha Brahmana, and the Sulbasutras say that the Rigveda corresponds to an altar of mantras.\n\nFire altars are already mentioned in the Rigveda. According to Taittiriya Samhita 5.2.3., they are made of twenty-one bricks.\n\nIn ŚBM 10.4.3.14-20, the altar is made of 396 (360 + 36) yajusmati (special) bricks, and of 10,800 lokamprna (ordinary) bricks. 10,701 lokamprna bricks belong to the ahavaniya altar, 78 to the dhisnya hearths and 21 to the garhapatya. Around the altar are 360 parisrita stones (261 around ahavaniya, 78 around dhisnya, 21 around garhapatya). \n\nŚBM 10.3.1. describes that the altar is symbolically built with gayatri (24 syllables), usnih (breath, 28 syllables), pankti (mind, 40 syllables), tristubh (ear, 44 syllables), jagati (awakening) (48 syllables) and generative breath. The gayatri altar's height is to the knees, the tristubh's to the navel and the jagati's to a man's height. \n\nIn the Agnicayana ritual, the mahavedi (great altar) has a length of 24 prakrama in the east, 30 in the west and 36 in the north and south. Inside the mahavedi, an altar is placed. In the smaller ritual space to the west of the mahavedi (pracinavamsa, pragvamsa), three altars are placed: the garhapatya (earth, W), ahavaniya (sky, E) and daksinagni (or anvaharyapacana, SW). The round garhapatya and the square ahavaniya have the same area. The Squaring the circle problem was also investigated because of such ritualistic considerations. The ahavaniya altar has five layers (citi), representing earth, space and the sky.\n\nAt Kalibangan (at the Ghaggar river) the remains of what some writers claim to be fire altars have been unearthed. S.R. Rao found similar \"fire altars\" in Lothal which he thinks could have served no other purpose than a ritualistic one.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "980697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980697", "title": "World Student Christian Federation", "text": "World Student Christian Federation\n\nThe World Student Christian Federation (WSCF) is a federation of autonomous national Student Christian Movements (SCM) forming the youth and student arm of the global ecumenical movement. The Federation includes Orthodox, Protestant, Catholic, and Anglican students.\n\nTogether with the YMCA and the YWCA, WSCF has as a foundational document, the Paris Basis. WSCF's aims include \"to call members of the academic community to faith in God, to discipleship within the life and mission of the Church and to help them strive for peace and justice in and among nations.\" At one point \"the evangelisation of the world in this generation\" was seen as the main aim. Throughout its history the Federation has brought students together across theological and cultural boundaries and provided training and opportunities. For over a century WSCF has supplied leaders to the Church, the ecumenical movement and the Christian left, governments and social movements.\n\nTogether the WSCF and SCM provide a context for young Christians from all churches and nations to meet. The motto of the WSCF is \"\"—\"that they all may be one\" ().\n\nWSCF was formed at a meeting of student leaders from ten North American and European countries in 1895 at Vadstena Castle, Sweden. The founders included John R. Mott (U.S.), J.Rutter Williamson (U.K.), Martin Eckhoff (Norway), Luther D. Wishard (U.S.), Johannes Siemsen (Germany) and Karl Fries (Sweden).\n\nWSCF was the first international student organisation. Together with YMCA and YWCA, it is among the oldest extant youth movements. WSCF is known in French as FUACE——and in Spanish as FUMEC—.\n\nForces affecting WSCF have been:\n\nNotable leaders of the WSCF have included:\n\nThe WSCF newsletter \"Federation News\" started in 1921 and is published twice a year. The WSCF journal \"Student World\" was begun in 1908 but has had a broken history of publication.\n\nThe mission and vision statement of the WSCF is:\n\nWSCF's founder, the Methodist layman and YMCA worker John R. Mott (1865-1955), promoted Protestant unity in 1895 as an organization joining youth from all Protestant churches to dedicate themselves to the 'evangelization of the world in this generation.'\" \n\nThe General Assembly (GA) is the highest decision making body of the Federation. WSCF's GA is held approximately every four years. Recent assemblies have been held in Montreal, Canada, Chiang Mai, Thailand, Beirut, Lebanon, and Yamoussoukro, Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nThe GA is made up of representatives from all affiliated and associated movements. The GA reviews the previous four years, plans for the next four years and elects the Executive Committee, Chairperson, Vice-Chairpersons, Treasurer and General Secretary.\n\nThe 35th GA was held in Bogota, Colombia from February 27 to March 5, 2015.\n\nThe Executive Committee and staff (General Secretary and Regional Secretaries) co-ordinate the Federation's activities between General Assemblies. The Executive Committee has met in Chiang Mai, Thailand, Porto Alegre, Brazil and Alexandria, Egypt.\n\nThe General Secretary is based in the Inter-Regional Office (IRO) in Geneva, Switzerland. The IRO is in the Ecumenical Centre which also houses the World Council of Churches, the World Alliance of Reformed Churches, the Lutheran World Federation, the Ecumenical Advocacy Alliance, the Conference of European Churches, Ecumenical News International, Action by Churches Together International, and many other organisations.\n\nThe IRO organises the General Assembly and Executive Committee, the IRO staff is the secretariat for WSCF's endowment \"The Centennial Fund\". The IRO administers WSCF's income, salaries and fundraising and co-ordinates global WSCF programmes, the IRO administers the Ecumenical Assistance Programme, the Universal Day of Prayer for Students, produces \"Federation News\" and \"Student World\" maintains contact with national movements and \"Senior Friends\" and organises WSCF representation at meetings of the United Nations, UNESCO, World Council of Churches and other organisations.\n\n\nUntil the 1960s, the WSCF was centralized in Geneva. This shifted in 1972, when the Federation divided into six regional offices with Geneva remaining as an inter-regional office. Each region has a regional secretary, officers and a committee made up of representatives from the national movements in the region. Each region has its own programmes and publications. The regions nominate students to participate in global WSCF programmes and other activities. Each region has two representatives on WSCF's global Executive Committee. The six regions are Africa, Asia-Pacific, Europe, Latin America and Caribbean, Middle East, and North America. The regional offices are in Nairobi, Hong Kong, Trento, Buenos Aires, Beirut and New York.\n\nWSCF's ecumenical work operates at a national level through the Student Christian Movement (SCM). Each national SCM has ties to the ecumenical bodies such as the World Council of Churches, and other national ecumenical organizations such as the National Council of Churches in Australia and the Christian Conference of Asia.\n\nWhilst national SCMs may vary considerably, they have tended to foster liberal and progressive religious and social views amongst university students. This resulted in conflicts with evangelical student groups, such as those affiliated to the parachurch International Fellowship of Evangelical Students.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1490438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1490438", "title": "Zaqqum", "text": "Zaqqum\n\nAccording to the Quran, Zaqqum () is a tree that \"springs out of the bottom of Jahannam\". \nIt is mentioned in verses 17:60 (as the \"cursed tree\"), 37:62-68, 44:43, and 56:52, of the Quran.\n\nThe Qur'an says:\n\nThe fruits of \"Zaqqum\" are shaped like devils' heads (Qur'an 37:62-68). Some Islamic scholars believe in a literal meaning of this tree grown in fire, showing the inverted flora of hell. The inhabitants of hell are forced to eat the tree's fruits, which tears their bodies apart and releases bodily fluids as a punishment. According to Shaykh Umar Sulayman Al-Ashqar, a professor at the University of Jordan, once the palate of the sinners is satiated, the fruit in their bellies churns like burning oil. Other scholars suggest the tree is grown by the seeds of the evils deeds of the sinners, therefore the devilish fruits are the fruits of their bad actions during lifetime. Ibn Arabi stated, the tree stands for the arrogant self.\nThe name \"zaqqum\" has been applied to the species \"Euphorbia abyssinica\" by the Beja people in eastern Sudan. In Jordan, it is applied to the species \"Balanites aegyptiaca\". In Turkey, zaqqum (zakkum) is Nerium oleander.\n\n"}
