{"id": "15611636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15611636", "title": "Arkansas Railroad Museum", "text": "Arkansas Railroad Museum\n\nArkansas Railroad Museum is located on Port Road in Pine Bluff, Arkansas at the former Cotton Belt (SSW) yard.\n\nThe former SSW shops are occupied by the historic collection of railroad equipment. This museum is about an hour's drive from Little Rock, AR, and is one of the largest displays of historic railroad equipment in Arkansas. Between the disappearance of SSW in 1992 into parent Southern Pacific and the size of the collection, Arkansas Railroad Museum can be considered an upper-level railroad preservation facility. The Museum is operated by the Cotton Belt Rail Historical Society and local volunteers. The Museum is open Monday through Saturday from 9 AM to 2 PM and on Sunday afternoon by appointment.\n\nArkansas Railroad Museum is most famous for stabling SSW #819, the last steam locomotive built by SSW in February 1943. The 819 was restored to operation in 1986. It operated on 13 excursions between 1986 and 1993, but is currently out of service pending completion of an overhaul mandated by the Federal Railroad Administration. A collection of historical passenger cars, mostly lightweight Pullman-Standard equipment, is also kept for use behind 819. The 819 is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe following equipment is at the museum:\n\nCotton Belt 336, a D3 Mogul built by Baldwin in 1909, is in poor condition and will be cosmetically restored. This locomotive is also listed on the National Register.\n\nThe following cars are part of the St. Louis Southwestern Railway (Cotton Belt Route) Relief Train, also listed on the National Register:\n\nOther equipment at the museum includes:\n\nThe equipment is mostly housed in the former SSW shops, which was the main heavy repair and erection shop for SSW during the steam era. The shop has such heavy repair equipment as pits, massive overhead cranes, and tools for servicing large railroad equipment. On the east side of the former shops is a transfer table that is still operable. The transfer table is used to move exhibits from time to time. The best time to see the exhibits outside is the first weekend in April (unless that weekend is Easter) when the Museum has its annual show. Many of the exhibits are taken outside so that tables can be set up inside the museum for vendors.\n\n"}
{"id": "3993162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3993162", "title": "Art of Mentoring", "text": "Art of Mentoring\n\nThe Art of Mentoring series is a series of books published by Basic Books from 2001 to 2008, beginning with Alan Dershowitz's \"Letters to a Young Lawyer\" and Christopher Hitchens' \"Letters to a Young Contrarian\". The books were all titled in the form \"Letters to a Young ____\", in the spirit of Rainer Maria Rilke's book \"Letters to a Young Poet\". They were meant to be relatively short guides to various occupations or life paths for someone starting out in that field, from the point of view of an expert.\n\nThe series was the brainchild of John Donatich, who was the publisher at Basic Books from 1997 to 2003.\n\n\nOther books, like Wynton Marsalis's \"To a Young Jazz Musician: Letters from the Road\" (2004), William Sloane Coffin's \"Letters to a Young Doubter\" (2005), Hill Harper's \"Letters to a Young Brother\" (2006) and Jonathan Kozol's \"Letters to a Young Teacher\" (2007), though they share the structure and naming style of the series, and may have been inspired by it, were not part of the Art of Mentoring series.\n\n"}
{"id": "10026437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10026437", "title": "Board of Education of Oklahoma City v. Dowell", "text": "Board of Education of Oklahoma City v. Dowell\n\nBoard of Education of Oklahoma City v. Dowell, 498 U.S. 237 (1991), was a United States Supreme Court case \"hasten[ing] the end of federal court desegregation orders.\" The Court held that a federal desegregation order should be ended even though it meant that schools would become re-segregated since the Oklahoma schools had been arranged into a unitary system.\n\n"}
{"id": "303089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303089", "title": "Bret Hart", "text": "Bret Hart\n\nBret Sergeant Hart (born July 2, 1957) is a Canadian-American retired professional wrestler, retired amateur wrestler, writer and actor. A member of the Hart wrestling family and a second-generation wrestler, he has an amateur wrestling background, wrestling at Ernest Manning High School and Mount Royal College. A major international draw within professional wrestling, he has been credited with changing the perception of mainstream North-American professional wrestling in the early 1990s by bringing technical in-ring performance to the fore. Hart is widely regarded as one of the greatest professional wrestlers of all time; Sky Sports noted that his legacy is that of \"one of, if not the greatest, to have ever graced the squared circle\". For most of his career, he used the nickname, \"Hitman\".\n\nHart joined his father Stu Hart's promotion Stampede Wrestling in 1976 as a referee, and made his in-ring debut in 1978. He gained championship success throughout the 1980s and 1990s in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE), where he helmed The Hart Foundation stable. He left for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) following the controversial \"Montreal Screwjob\" in November 1997, where he remained until October 2000. Having been inactive from in-ring competition since January 2000, owing to a December 1999 concussion, he officially retired in October 2000, shortly after his departure from the company. He returned to sporadic in-ring competition from 2010–2011 with WWE, where he won his final championship, headlined the 2010 SummerSlam event, and served as the general manager of Raw. Throughout his career, Hart headlined WrestleMania IX, X, and XII, and participated in the main event of Starrcade 1997 and 1999 – as a special enforcer and referee in the former.\n\nHart has held championships in five decades from the 1970s to the 2010s, with a total of 32 held throughout his career, and 17 held between the WWF/WWE and WCW. Among other accolades, he is a five-time WWF World Heavyweight Champion and a two-time WCW World Heavyweight Champion. Hart has most combined days as WWF World Heavyweight Champion during the 1990s (654), and was the first WCW World Heavyweight Champion born outside the United States. He is the second WWF Triple Crown Champion and fifth (with Goldberg) WCW Triple Crown Champion, and the first man to win both the WWF and WCW Triple Crown Championships. Hart is also the 1994 Royal Rumble match winner (with Lex Luger), and the only two-time King of the Ring, winning the 1991 tournament and the first King of the Ring pay-per-view in 1993. Stone Cold Steve Austin, with whom Hart headlined multiple pay-per-view events as part of an acclaimed rivalry from 1996 to 1997, inducted him into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2006.\n\nOutside of wrestling Hart has appeared in numerous films and television shows such as \"The Simpsons\" as well as featuring in several documentaries, both about himself specifically and others about the wrestling industry in general. Hart also helped found and lent his name to the major junior ice hockey team the Calgary Hitmen, and has written two biographies along with a weekly column for the \"Calgary Sun\" for over a decade.\n\nThe eighth child of wrestling patriarch Stu Hart and his wife Helen, Bret Hart was born in Calgary, Alberta into the Hart wrestling family. He is of Greek descent through his maternal grandmother and Irish through his maternal grandfather. His father was mainly of Scots-Irish descent but also had Scottish and English ancestry. Hart is a dual citizen of Canada and the United States since his mother Helen was born in New York. Hart has stated that he considers himself to be North American and that he is equally proud of his U.S. and Canadian nationality. His maternal grandfather was long-distance runner Harry Smith.\n\nHart grew up in a household with eleven siblings, seven brothers Smith, Bruce, Keith, Wayne, Dean, Ross and Owen, as well as four sisters, Ellie, Georgia, Alison and Diana. As a child he was the closest with his older brother Dean who was the nearest to him in age of all his older brothers, being three years his senior. Together they would often fight with Bret's two older sisters, Ellie, who was two years older, and Georgia, who was one year older. Hart's family were non-denominational Christians, but he and all of his siblings were baptized by a local Catholic priest.\n\nHart spent the vast majority of his childhood in the Hart family mansion which was owned by his father. During one period his father was housing a bear known as Terrible Ted chained under the building, the bear had had all of its teeth removed and Hart would sometimes as a very young child let the bear lick ice cream off his toes since he thought it was a good way to keep them clean.\n\nHis introduction to professional wrestling came at an early age. As a child, he witnessed his father training future wrestlers like Billy Graham in the Dungeon, his household basement which served as a training room. Before school, Hart's father, also a wrestling promoter, had him hand out fliers to local wrestling shows. In the 1998 documentary \"\", Hart reflected on his father's discipline, describing how Stu uttered morbid words while inflicting excruciating submission holds that left broken blood vessels in Bret's eyes. Hart claimed his father had an otherwise pleasant demeanor.\n\nHart's first work in wrestling involved pulling out lucky numbers out of a metal box during intermission at the Stampede Wrestling shows when he was four years old. When he got slightly older he would sell programs to the shows, something all Hart's seven brothers would do. He would often compete for customers with his little brother Ross since the fans would often want to buy from the youngest Hart child.\n\nLike his father, Hart was an excellent amateur wrestler since an early age, having begun training as a nine year old. At Ernest Manning High School, Hart became a standout student in the amateur wrestling division. Hart has stated that he joined the wrestling team \"for the sole reason that my dad expected me to... no-one asked me to.\" He won significant championships in tournaments throughout Alberta, including the 1974 city championships in Calgary. He scored a victory over competitor Bob Eklund – who would go on to become a Canadian Interuniversity Sport national champion, winning \"Outstanding Wrestler of the Year 1980–1981\" – en route to the championship. Hart describes the moment where he displayed the medal to his father, Stu, as a \"powerful moment\", and that the relationship with his father \"took a different direction from that point on.\" Hart considered the medals to be one of his most prized possessions.\n\nBy 1977, Hart was collegiate champion at Mount Royal College, where he was studying filmmaking; his coaches and other people around him felt that he had shown sufficient promise to compete at the following year's Commonwealth Games and encouraged him to begin training for the event. Hart, however, was beginning to find amateur wrestling unrewarding amid injuries and fluctuating weight. Stu still believed his son capable of making it to the Olympic or Commonwealth Games if he put forth the effort. Hart has expressed that he believed that even if he became an exceptionally successful sports wrestler it would not have led to a career afterwards which he was interested in, stating that he thought that he would end up as a wrestling coach or phys-ed teacher at a high-school if he pursued the olympic route. Hart felt that the only way to give up amateur wrestling without disappointing his father was to become a professional wrestler. His college grades became poorer as his interest in filmmaking waned; he dedicated himself to professional wrestling and began training with his father's Stampede Wrestling promotion. Hart has spoken of how helpful his amateur background was in his professional wrestling career, and also of what a positive effect amateur wrestling has on junior high school and high school-aged boys in terms of building self-confidence.\n\nIn 1976, Hart began working for his father's Stampede Wrestling promotion in Calgary. Hart first began helping the promotion by refereeing matches. At a 1978 event in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, a wrestler was unable to perform his match, forcing Stu to ask his son to stand in as a replacement. Before long, he became a regular contender, eventually partnering with brother Keith to win the Stampede International Tag Team Championship four times.\n\nHart gained some of his most prominent experience with Japanese combatants and real-life trainers Mr. Hito and Mr. Sakurada. Hart also had high-impact matches against Tom Billington, the Dynamite Kid. In the midst of wrestling alongside his family, Hart made a point not to ride on the shoulders of his elders. Hart faithfully jobbed as requested of him, taking pride in the believability of his performances. As he said himself, \"No one could take a shit kicking like Bret Hart\". Although he dreaded partaking in interviews and speaking in front of a crowd, Hart went on to win the promotion's top titles, including two British Commonwealth Mid-Heavyweight Championships, five International Tag Team Championships, and six North American Heavyweight Championships. Hart also wrestled Tiger Mask in New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW), a promotion for whom he often wrestled during the early to mid-1980s. He remained one of Stampede's most successful performers until the promotion, along with several wrestlers, was acquired by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in August 1984.\n\nHart was asked to start out in the WWF as a singles wrestler with a cowboy gimmick but refused, stating that where he comes from \"if you called yourself a cowboy, you'd better be one.\" He made his televised WWF debut on August 29, 1984, in a tag team match where he teamed with the Dynamite Kid. On September 11, in Poughkeepsie, New York, Hart defeated Aldo Marino in his televised debut singles match, which aired on the September 29 edition of \"Superstars of Wrestling\". In 1985, after acquiring the nickname of \"Hit Man\", he requested to join Jimmy Hart's heel stable, The Hart Foundation, which included brother-in-law Jim Neidhart. Bret began to increasingly team with Neidhart, in order to build the promotion's tag team division. The \"Hart Foundation\" name then became exclusive to Bret, Neidhart and manager Jimmy Hart, due to the similar family names of both team members and their manager. Bret's agile, technical style – which earned him the moniker \"The Excellence of Execution\" (coined by Gorilla Monsoon) – created a contrast with his partner Neidhart's strength and brawling skills. During this time, Hart began wearing his signature sunglasses, initially to conceal his nervousness during promos. Hart considers his microphone work to have been a weakness throughout his early career.\n\nIn 1986, Hart began his first singles program with Ricky Steamboat, and in a singles match originally planned for WrestleMania 2, he lost to Steamboat at the Boston Garden on March 8, 1986, which would be included on Hart's 2005 DVD as one of his all-time favorite matches. At WrestleMania 2, Hart instead participated in a 20-man battle royal which was eventually won by André the Giant. He lost to Steamboat again on the July 28, 1986 edition of \"Prime Time Wrestling\". Hart headlined his first televised WWF card when he beat Ray Rougeau, of The Fabulous Rougeaus, in the main event of the November 3, 1986 edition of \"Prime Time Wrestling\".\n\nThe Hart Foundation won their first of two WWF Tag Team Championship on the February 7, 1987 edition of \"Superstars of Wrestling\" when they defeated The British Bulldogs. They then teamed with Danny Davis to face The British Bulldogs and Tito Santana at WrestleMania III. They won the match when Davis pinned Davey Boy Smith after hitting him with Jimmy Hart's megaphone.\n\nThe Hart Foundation adopted the nickname, \"The Pink and Black Attack\", which Hart continued to use after the tag team's disbandment. This was in reference to the team's ring attire, as well as Hart's signature mirrored sunglasses, which he would routinely give away to a young audience member before matches, following his face turn in 1988. As Hart's WWF career progressed, he increasingly described himself as \"The best there is, the best there was, and the best there ever will be\" (derived from the 1984 film \"The Natural\"), which he would later justify through three claims: he never injured an opponent through any fault of his own; through the entire course of his career, he missed only one show (as a result of flight difficulties); and that he only once refused to lose a match – his final WWF match with long-time adversary Shawn Michaels at the Survivor Series event in 1997, which culminated in the Montreal Screwjob.\nThe Hart Foundation lost the WWF Tag Team Championship to Strike Force on the October 27 edition of \"Superstars of Wrestling\". Hart subsequently competed in his most high-profile singles contest to date on the November 28, 1987 edition of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", when he faced \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage in a losing effort. He began 1988 with a decisive victory over Paul Roma of The Young Stallions (who had scored an upset victory over The Hart Foundation the previous year) on the January 11 edition of \"Prime Time Wrestling\", and, at the Royal Rumble in January 1988, was the first man to enter the Royal Rumble match. He lasted 25 minutes and 42 seconds before being eliminated by Don Muraco. In his first singles championship opportunity, he challenged The Honky Tonk Man for the WWF Intercontinental Heavyweight Championship in the main event of the July 18 edition of \"Prime Time Wrestling\", with the match ending in a double countout.\n\nAt the Royal Rumble in January 1989, The Hart Foundation teamed with Jim Duggan to defeat The Fabulous Rougeau Brothers and Dino Bravo. They also defeated Greg Valentine and The Honky Tonk Man, who were also managed by Jimmy Hart, at WrestleMania V. At an event in Milan on April 8, 1989, broadcast live on Tele+2, André the Giant requested to work a singles match with Hart, who lost the match, which was later released on his 2013 DVD set, \"The Dungeon Collection\", but considered André's praise and encouragement after the match to be of key importance in his singles career. He wrestled his first pay-per-view singles match on October 10, losing to Dino Bravo in the first British WWF pay-per-view, which was held at the London Arena and broadcast on Sky Television (Hart was in fact booked to win the match, but incurred a broken sternum, causing an unplanned countout loss).\n\nAt SummerSlam in August 1989, The Hart Foundation lost a non-title match against then WWF Tag Team Champions The Brain Busters. In the first televised contest of a rivalry that would span Hart's WWF and WCW careers, he lost to Mr. Perfect on the November 6, 1989 edition of \"Prime Time Wrestling\", when Perfect pulled Hart's tights during a roll-up. In their first ever singles meeting, Shawn Michaels and Hart wrestled to a double countout on the February 11, 1990 edition of the \"Wrestling Challenge\".\n\nAfter participating at the Royal Rumble in January 1990, The Hart Foundation defeated The Bolsheviks in 19 seconds at WrestleMania VI and began feuding with Demolition, who had just won the WWF Tag Team Championship against The Colossal Connection at WrestleMania VI. At SummerSlam in 1990, The Hart Foundation began their second, and final, WWF Tag Team Championship reign by defeating Demolition members Crush and Smash in a two out of three falls match with some help from Legion of Doom. On October 30, the Hart Foundation lost the title to The Rockers (Marty Jannetty and Shawn Michaels), but a few days later, President Jack Tunney reversed the decision and the win was never acknowledged on television. The Hart Foundation's reign lasted until WrestleMania VII, where they lost to The Nasty Boys, after which the team split.\n\nHart won his first WWF Intercontinental Championship by defeating Mr. Perfect with the Sharpshooter at SummerSlam in 1991, and subsequently won the 1991 King of the Ring tournament on September 7, 1991 at the Providence Civic Center in Providence, Rhode Island. Hart's first pay-per-view title defense occurred at This Tuesday in Texas, where he beat the undefeated Skinner.\n\nIn January 1992, Hart was placed in a feud with The Mountie. This feud came about when the Mountie's manager, Jimmy Hart, threw water on Hart, and The Mountie proceeded to shock Hart with a cattle prod. On January 17, 1992, Hart dropped the Intercontinental Championship to The Mountie. Following the loss, Roddy Piper defeated Mountie with a sleeper hold two days later at the 1992 Royal Rumble, and Bret later pinned Piper for his second Intercontinental Championship at WrestleMania VIII later that year, making him the first, and one of few wrestlers to ever pin Piper's shoulders to the mat. At a \"Wrestling Challenge\" taping on July 21, 1992, Hart defeated Shawn Michaels, with the Intercontinental Championship belt suspended above the ring, in the WWF's first ever ladder match. Hart dropped the Intercontinental Championship to his brother-in-law, Davey Boy Smith, in Hart's first WWF pay-per-view main event at SummerSlam in August 1992, held before over 80,000 fans at Wembley Stadium. \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" readers voted it the \"Match of the Year\", and WWE named the match as the greatest in the history of SummerSlam. Upon induction into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2006, Hart cited the contest as his favorite match of his career.\n\nHart won the WWF World Heavyweight Championship from Ric Flair at a \"Superstars\" taping at Saskatchewan Place in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan on October 12 of that year, in a match not originally broadcast on WWF television – the match was instead made available on a series of Coliseum/WWE Home Video releases. Hart dislocated one of the fingers on his left hand during the match and popped it back in himself so it would not affect the rest of the match. He made his first successful title defense against Papa Shango on \"Saturday Night's Main Event\". He would headline his first pay-per-view as champion with a successful title defense against Shawn Michaels at the 1992 Survivor Series, and defeated Razor Ramon at the 1993 Royal Rumble. He would also defend the title against contenders such as Papa Shango and former champion Ric Flair before losing the title to Yokozuna in his first WrestleMania main event at WrestleMania IX, after interference from Mr. Fuji. Fuji then challenged Hulk Hogan, who had come out to help Hart, to compete for the title; Hogan then won his fifth WWF World Heavyweight Title from Yokozuna. In June, Hart won the first pay-per-view King of the Ring tournament, defeating Razor Ramon, Mr. Perfect, and Bam Bam Bigelow, thus becoming the only two-time King of the Ring. According to Hart, he was scheduled to regain the WWF World Heavyweight Championship from Hulk Hogan at SummerSlam, but Hogan chose to drop the title to Yokozuna instead at King of the Ring. Hart instead entered a feud with Jerry \"The King\" Lawler, who interrupted Hart's coronation, claimed he was the only king, attacked Hart and began a barrage against Hart and his family. The two met at SummerSlam in 1993, to determine the \"Undisputed King of the World Wrestling Federation\". Hart originally won the match by submission, via the Sharpshooter, but as he would not let go of the hold, the decision was reversed to a Lawler victory by disqualification. Hart and his younger brother, Owen Hart, would also feud with Lawler during 1993 in the United States Wrestling Association (USWA), with Lawler notably defeating Owen for Owen's USWA Unified World Heavyweight Championship. Hart's feud with Lawler was named \"Feud of the Year\" by \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\", and voted \"Feud of the Year\" by readers of \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\".\n\nAfter months of dealing with Lawler, Hart received a WrestleMania IX rematch with WWF World Heavyweight Champion Yokozuna on the November 20 edition of \"WWF Superstars\". When Bret appeared to have the match won, with Yokozuna locked in the sharpshooter, Owen came to ringside to congratulate his brother. The referee began questioning Owen's motives, which allowed Fuji to assault Bret. Owen then involved himself in the match, resulting in a victory for Yokozuna via disqualification. On the non-televised but now-canon November 22 edition of \"Monday Night Raw\", Hart again challenged Yokozuna for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship, and again failed to regain the championship due to similar involvement from Owen. The brothers' disagreements set the wheels in motion for a family feud that would span the entirety of 1994. At Survivor Series, the Harts (Bret, Owen, Bruce, and Keith) took on Shawn Michaels (a substitution for Lawler, who was facing legal troubles) and his knights. The Harts won the match, with all of the brothers surviving except for Owen, the only Hart family member eliminated when he was rolled up by Michaels after inadvertently knocking Bret off the apron. Bitter about his elimination, Owen blamed Bret for this and in the weeks ahead, blamed Bret for holding him back. Owen demanded a one-on-one match with Bret, which Bret refused to accept. In the storyline, Bret, along with his parents, worked over the Christmas holidays to reunite the family and to settle their rivalry. Bret was voted \"WWF Superstar of the Year\" 1993 by fans, as well as the greatest wrestler of the year by \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" readers.\nAt the Royal Rumble in January, Bret and Owen took on The Quebecers (Jacques and Pierre) for the WWF Tag Team Championship. Referee Tim White stopped the match after he considered Bret unable to continue after he sustained a kayfabe knee injury during the match. After the match, Owen berated his brother for costing him a title opportunity and attacked the injured knee, setting the feud between the two. Later on, Hart managed to participate and win the 1994 Royal Rumble match amid controversy. Hart and Lex Luger were the final two participants and the two were eliminated over the top rope at the same time. Therefore, both men were named co-winners of the 1994 Royal Rumble match and received title shots at WrestleMania X. Luger won the chance to face Yokozuna first, with Hart having to wrestle his brother Owen, before receiving his title shot. Hart lost his match against Owen but went on to defeat Yokozuna for his second WWF World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nHart continued to feud with his brother Owen while he also started feuding with Diesel. Hart's friend and former tag team partner Jim Neidhart returned to the WWF and reunited with Hart. At King of the Ring, Hart defended the WWF World Heavyweight Championship against Diesel. When Hart was winning the match, Shawn Michaels interfered on Diesel's behalf; Diesel appeared close to victory after he delivered a Jackknife Powerbomb yet before he could pin Hart, Neidhart interfered, therefore Diesel won by disqualification, but Hart retained his title. Neidhart left when Diesel and Michaels attacked Hart following the match. Neidhart's motivation was made clear when he helped Owen win the tournament that night, so that he could receive a title shot against his brother. At SummerSlam, Hart successfully retained the WWF World Heavyweight Championship against Owen in a steel cage match. This match received a five-star rating from Dave Meltzer of \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\", and the brothers' feud was voted \"Feud of the Year\" by readers of \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\".\n\nHart eventually lost his WWF World Heavyweight Championship at Survivor Series in a submission match against Bob Backlund where the manager of either competitor (Davey Boy Smith for Hart, Owen for Backlund) would have to \"throw in the towel\" for the wrestler they were representing. When Hart was in Backlund's crossface chickenwing and Davey Boy was kayfabe knocked out, Owen persuaded his mother Helen to throw in the towel for Hart, giving Backlund the championship victory. Bret's feud with Backlund would continue into the following year. He was voted the greatest wrestler of 1994 by \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" readers, winning the vote for the second straight year.\nThree days after Hart's title loss, Diesel defeated Backland in eight seconds with a jackknife powerbomb to become the new WWF World Heavyweight Champion. By 1995, Hart was focusing on projects outwith the business, such as acting, and shifted to the number two face in the company, behind Diesel. Hart challenged for Diesel's WWF World Heavyweight Championship at the 1995 Royal Rumble, in a match that was continually marred by outside interference and ruled a draw. Both men embraced in a display of sportsmanship after the match. In a rematch from Survivor Series, Hart defeated Bob Backlund in an \"I Quit\" match at WrestleMania XI. Hart was critical with the match against Backlund, claiming it was \"probably my worst pay-per-view match I ever had\". Hart would be the focal point of the first event in the In Your House pay-per-view series, competing in two matches at In Your House 1. He defeated Hakushi in the very first match of the in Your House series. Hart's acclaimed feud with Jerry Lawler was reignited at the event when Lawler defeated Hart due to Hakushi's (now Lawler's protégé) interference. Hart beat Lawler in a \"Kiss My Foot\" match at King of the Ring, and defeated Lawler's kayfabe dentist, Isaac Yankem, by disqualification at SummerSlam 1995. Their King of the Ring match ended with Hart shoving his foot into Lawler's mouth, then forcing Lawler to kiss his own foot. Although Hart was victorious in their in-ring feud, Lawler remained strongly opposed to Hart as a commentator, and would routinely encourage Hart's opponents during matches; it would not be until Over the Limit, sixteen years later, that both men would finally bury the hatchet. After disposing of Lawler, Hart engaged in a three-month feud with Jean-Pierre Lafitte, who would stealing the mirrored sunglasses from fans at ringside and his trademark leather jacket. At In Your House 3, Hart defeated Lafitte, to end the feud. Hart shifted his focus back to the WWF World Heavyweight Championship, defeating Diesel in a no disqualification match at Survivor Series to commence his third reign.\n\nIn a rematch from their SummerSlam 1992 encounter, Hart successfully defended his title against the now heel Davey Boy Smith at . He lost to The Undertaker by disqualification at the 1996 Royal Rumble when Diesel interfered, ultimately retaining the WWF World Heavyweight Championship, and defeated The Undertaker by disqualification in a rematch on the February 5 edition of \"Raw\", again due to Diesel's interference. Hart retained his title once again against Diesel in a steel cage match at In Your House 6, and defeated Hunter Hearst Helmsley, who was undefeated on \"Raw\", on the March 4 edition of the show. WWF Commissioner Rowdy Roddy Piper ruled that Hart would face Shawn Michaels, who had earned a WWF World Heavyweight Championship match at WrestleMania XII by winning the Royal Rumble, in a 60-minute Iron Man match at the event. The wrestler with the most decisions during the 60 minutes would win the match and the WWF World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nAt WrestleMania, with less than a minute left on the clock and the score still 0–0, Michaels jumped from the middle rope; his legs were caught by Hart, and Hart locked in his Sharpshooter. However, Michaels did not submit in the last 30 seconds so the match ended in a tie. WWF President Gorilla Monsoon ruled that the match would continue in sudden death overtime. Michaels hit a superkick to win the championship. \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" readers voted it the \"Match of the Year\"; in 2004, WWE fans voted the match as the greatest in the history of WrestleMania. After WrestleMania, Hart went on a European tour over the next two weeks, coming out victorious against Stone Cold Steve Austin and Hunter Hearst Helmsley. The tour ended on April 22, and after this he took his hiatus from television. His final televised appearance was an interview taped while on the European tour in which he described his passion for wrestling was diminished, and stated that although there were offers from competing companies he might be finished with wrestling.\n\nThat fall, Hart would indeed receive competing offers of employment from both WWF and World Championship Wrestling (WCW). WCW presented a 3-year, $9M contract offer to Hart, while the World Wrestling Federation responded with an unprecedented 20-year contract. Finishing up his original WWF deal, Hart returned to action on a tour of South Africa on September 8, 1996, defeating Davey Boy Smith in Durban. On October 21, Hart elected to re-sign with the World Wrestling Federation. He was inducted into the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" Hall of Fame Class of 1996.\n\nOver the summer, Stone Cold Steve Austin, who was fresh from winning the 1996 King of the Ring, continually taunted Hart and challenged him to come back and have a match. After an eight-month hiatus from television, Hart returned and defeated Austin at Survivor Series in a match for the number one contender spot to the WWF World Heavyweight Championship. Hart challenged champion Sycho Sid at the following month's ; Shawn Michaels, who was serving as a guest commentator at ringside, accidentally cost Hart the victory when he attempted to become involved in the match after being assaulted by Sid. The building tension between Hart and Michaels climaxed after the match, when Hart assaulted Michaels. Hart's feud with Austin escalated at the Royal Rumble (1997), when Hart tossed Austin out of the ring, only for Austin (unbeknownst to the referees) to climb back into the ring and win the Rumble, while the referees were distracted by Mankind. Hart quit the WWF the next night on \"Raw\" in protest. In order to deal with this controversy, a Fatal Four-Way between Austin and the participants he eliminated after re-entering the ring (Vader, The Undertaker, and Hart) was set up for , with the winner becoming the number one contender. After then-champion Shawn Michaels relinquished the belt, though, the match officially became for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship. Hart defeated Austin, Vader, and The Undertaker in the Fatal Four-Way. However, Austin made sure Hart's fourth reign was short-lived, costing him a title match against Sid the next night on \"Raw\". Hart challenged for Sid's WWF World Heavyweight Championship in a steel cage match shortly before WrestleMania 13, which saw Austin actually attempt to help Hart win, in order to make their scheduled match at WrestleMania 13 a title match. Concurrently, The Undertaker, who had a scheduled title match with Sid at WrestleMania, attempted to help Sid win. Sid ultimately retained, leading to a pure grudge match for Hart and Austin. Following his loss to Sid, Hart shoved \"announcer\" Vince McMahon to the ground when he attempted to conduct a post-match interview, and engaged in a worked shoot, expletive-laden rant against McMahon and WWF management. This incident has been cited as one which helped lay the foundations of the WWF's Attitude Era, as well as the starting point of McMahon's on-air character, the tyrannical WWF owner \"Mr. McMahon\".\n\nAt WrestleMania 13, Hart and Austin had their rematch in a submission match that would later get a 5-star rating from Dave Meltzer. In the end, Hart locked the Sharpshooter on a bloody Austin, who refused to give up. In fact, Austin never quit, but passed out from the blood loss and pain. Ken Shamrock, the special guest referee, awarded Hart the match, after which he continued to assault Austin, thus turning heel for the first time since 1988. It was named \"Match of the Year\" by \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" and voted \"Match of the Year\" by \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" readers. Later that night, Hart confronted Sycho Sid and The Undertaker prior to their match for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship; Hart insulted Undertaker and told Shawn Michaels (who was a guest commentator for the match) not to interfere. Undertaker won the match, which ended with Hart hotshotting Sid on the ropes, therefore costing him the title.\n\nHart challenged Rocky Maivia for the Intercontinental Championship in the main event of the March 31 edition of \"Raw\". Rocky Maivia won by disqualification when Hart refused to release a figure-four leglock applied around the ringpost. He faced Austin again in the main event of , to determine who would challenge the WWF World Heavyweight Champion in a title match at the following month's . Austin had Hart locked in his own finishing move, the Sharpshooter, in the middle of the ring when The British Bulldog interfered on Hart's behalf, resulting in disqualification and giving Austin the victory and title match. They met once again in a street fight on the April 21 edition of \"Raw Is War\", in which Austin injured Hart's ankle with a steel chair. The match was ruled a no contest and Austin afterward continued to beat Hart while on a stretcher in the back of an ambulance.\nIn the ensuing weeks, Hart denounced American fans, because of their negative reaction to him in the recent weeks in contrast to his continued popularity through the rest of the world, and reunited with brother Owen and brothers-in-law Davey Boy Smith and Jim Neidhart. The family members formed a new Hart Foundation with Brian Pillman; this incarnation was an anti-American stable which was popular within Canada and Europe. As the leader of this stable, Hart routinely carried a Canadian flag to the ring and engaged in promos where he declared the superiority of his home nation; he became so despised by U.S. audiences that they would often throw debris during his ring entrances, interviews, and matches. He was voted by \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" readers as the \"Most Hated Wrestler of the Year\" 1997. At , in Hart's home town of Calgary, the Hart Foundation defeated the team of Stone Cold Steve Austin, Ken Shamrock, Goldust, and The Legion of Doom, representing the United States, in a ten-man tag team match main event. The Canada vs. U.S. rivalry escalated on the July 21 edition of \"Raw Is War\" in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where Bret, Owen, and Davey Boy Smith, representing Canada and the Hart Foundation, defeated the team of Dude Love, Austin, and The Undertaker, representing the U.S., in a Flag match. The Hart Foundation's feud with Austin was named \"Feud of the Year\" by \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\" and voted \"Feud of the Year\" by readers of \"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\". Hart vowed that if he could not defeat The Undertaker for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship at SummerSlam, he would never wrestle in the United States again. The Undertaker agreed to the match, and Hart won his fifth and last WWF World Heavyweight Championship after spitting in guest referee Shawn Michaels' face; Michaels swung a steel chair in retaliation, which accidentally struck the Undertaker. Michaels, who, as part of another pre-match stipulation, would be banned from wrestling in the United States if he did not remain impartial as referee, had no option but to count the pinfall, giving his rival Hart the victory.\n\nAfter SummerSlam, Michaels was pushed as the top heel in the company and negative fan reactions towards Hart in the United States softened somewhat, as he declared, \"I'm not so much anti-American as I am just very, very pro-Canadian\". In real life, Hart did not like the new Attitude Era, instead preferring traditional values. This was used as part of his character, as Hart would insult the U.S. fans because of the success of the Attitude Era. Hart successfully defended his title against The Patriot, with whom Hart had become involved in a feud as part of the Canada vs. U.S. storyline, at , avenging a loss to him on the July 28 \"Raw\". The Canada vs. U.S. feud would conclude at , where Hart and Davey Boy Smith, representing Canada and The Hart Foundation, defeated The Patriot and Vader, representing the U.S., in a Flag match. Erstwhile, in a rematch from SummerSlam, The Undertaker challenged Hart for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship at One Night Only; after reversing a Tombstone Piledriver attempt from Hart, The Undertaker dumped Hart on the apron when he would not let go of the ropes. As a result, Hart's neck was caught in the ropes, and The Undertaker was disqualified. Hart later cited this as his favorite of all his matches with The Undertaker, and his last great match in the WWF.\n\nDuring the Hart Foundation's feud with the Shawn Michaels-led D-Generation X (DX), DX framed the Hart Foundation in vandalizing the locker room of the African American stable, Nation of Domination with racist motifs. In retaliation, during a promo with D-Generation X, Hart called members Triple H (previously billed as \"Hunter Hearst Helmsley\") and Shawn Michaels \"homos\". Hart later apologized for his participation in the storyline and said that he had been pressured into it, saying, \"I am not in any shape or form a racist. And I don't believe it is anything to kid around about. I also want to apologize for any remarks I made about gay people. It was a stupid mistake on my part\". Hart successfully defended his title against Nation of Domination leader, Faarooq, on the October 20 edition of \"Raw\". In his penultimate title defense, Hart wrestled Ken Shamrock to a no-contest on the October 27 edition of \"Raw Is War\"; while the referee was knocked out, Shamrock put Hart in an ankle lock; members of the Hart Foundation then attacked Shamrock until Shawn Michaels made the save for Shamrock and attacked Hart.\n\nAround this time, Hart's on-air rivalry with Vince McMahon also escalated. A heated ringside altercation between the two led many fans to dislike McMahon, who at the time was being exposed as owner of the WWF more and more frequently on-air. Although Hart had signed a 20-year contract back in 1996, the WWF was in a rough financial position by late 1997 and could no longer afford to honor the contract. Although Hart was arguably the biggest wrestler in the world during the mid-1990s, McMahon also felt that the value of his character was beginning to wane, and he encouraged Hart to approach the World Championship Wrestling (WCW) about a contract, hopefully one similar to their original offer. This was despite Hart's reluctance to leave the WWF and willingness to re-negotiate. Hart subsequently signed a three-year contract with WCW. His final match with the WWF would be a title match against his real life rival Shawn Michaels at Survivor Series in Montreal. Hart did not want to end his WWF career with a loss to Michaels in his home country particularly with the context of their nationality-fueled feud; and offered to lose, forfeit or otherwise give over the belt to Michaels in any other way that McMahon wanted. McMahon agreed to Hart's idea of forfeiting the championship the next night on \"Raw Is War\" or losing it a few weeks later.\n\nAlthough Hart stated to McMahon he would not take the WWF World Heavyweight Championship with him to WCW TV and despite insistence from then-WCW President Eric Bischoff, that Hart would join WCW with a \"clean slate\", McMahon was still concerned and paranoid; this led to him breaking his word in what eventually came to be known as the Montreal Screwjob. Even though Hart did not submit to the Sharpshooter, referee Earl Hebner called for the bell as if he had, on McMahon's orders. This resulted in Hart \"losing\" the title to Michaels. The night ended with an irate Hart spitting in McMahon's face, destroying television equipment, and punching McMahon backstage in front of Gerald Brisco, Pat Patterson, and McMahon's son Shane. Hart also confronted Michaels backstage about the match finish. Many behind-the-scenes events leading up to the Montreal Screwjob were filmed for the documentary \"\", released in 1998. WWE has described the Montreal Screwjob as \"arguably the most controversial, most jarring moment in the annals of sports entertainment\".\n\nHart's likeness would continue to be featured in WWF media into 1998, including the title video of \"Raw\" (brawling in a ring within a warehouse), and the \"WWF War Zone\" video game.\n\nHart's three-year contract with World Championship Wrestling included a salary of $2.5 million per year (a $1 million annual increase from his WWF contract), as well as a light schedule and a measure of creative control over his television character. A day after the WWF's Survivor Series pay-per-view, Eric Bischoff, while with the New World Order (nWo), announced that Hart was going to be coming to WCW and joining the nWo. Hart made his debut on \"Nitro\" on December 15, 1997. He was also heavily involved in that month's Starrcade pay-per-view. Due to a 60-day no-compete clause from the WWF, he served as the special guest referee for the match between Bischoff and Larry Zbyszko; during the Sting versus Hollywood Hogan main event for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship, he stepped in toward the conclusion of the match as impromptu referee, declaring Sting the winner and new champion by submission. In January, his no-compete clause expired, and his first feud in WCW was against Ric Flair, as both wrestlers considered themselves the greatest professional wrestlers of all time. Hart defeated Flair at Souled Out in his first WCW match. After this, Hart elected to defend the honor of WCW against the nWo, defeating members Brian Adams in his debut \"Nitro\" match on March 2, and Curt Hennig at Uncensored. In April 1998, Hart interfered in a \"Nitro\" main event between Hollywood Hogan and Randy Savage, helping Hogan recapture the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. He became an associate of the nWo, but did not officially join the group.\nHart competed in his second \"Nitro\" match on June 22, defeating Chris Benoit with assistance from nWo members: Hart had attempted to recruit his long-time friend into the nWo, but the offer was rejected. At Bash at the Beach, Hart competed in his first championship match in WCW when he faced Booker T for Booker's WCW World Television Championship. He was disqualified after hitting Booker with a steel chair. He headlined his first \"Nitro\" card on July 20, defeating Diamond Dallas Page for the vacant United States Heavyweight Championship, with assistance from nWo member, The Giant. On the August 10 edition of \"Nitro\", Hart lost his title to Lex Luger. He regained it from Luger the next night on \"Thunder\". In the main event of Fall Brawl, Hart was defeated in a WarGames match for the No. 1 contender spot to the WCW World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nHart subsequently asked the fans for forgiveness, turning his back on Hogan and the nWo. A match between Hart and Hogan was booked for the September 28 edition of \"Nitro\". During the match, Hart sustained a knee injury, with the bout ending in a no-contest; Sting came to Hart's aid and initiated a match with Hogan. Hart turned on Sting, delivering a DDT, and this bout was also ruled a no-contest. Sting, a member of the rival nWo Wolfpac, was assaulted after the match; this betrayal began an intense feud between Hart and Sting. On the October 12 edition of \"Nitro\", Sting and The Warrior beat Hart and Hogan by disqualification. Hart's feud with Sting ended at Halloween Havoc with Hart controversially defending the United States Heavyweight Championship and (kayfabe) injuring Sting. On the October 26 edition of \"Nitro\", Hart lost the title to Diamond Dallas Page. The two headlined the following month's World War 3 pay-per-view in a title match which Hart lost. Hart regained the title from Page on the November 30 edition of \"Nitro\" in a No Disqualification match with help from The Giant.\n\nOn the February 8, 1999 episode of \"Nitro\", Hart lost the United States Heavyweight Championship to family friend Roddy Piper. On the March 29 edition of \"Nitro\" held at Toronto's Air Canada Centre, Hart appeared in street clothes and derided WCW World Heavyweight Champion Ric Flair, as well as Hogan, for avoiding a match with him. Finally, he called out \"franchise player\" Bill Goldberg, claiming he could beat him in five minutes and verbally coercing Goldberg into giving him the spear. Hart was wearing a metal breastplate under his Toronto Maple Leafs jersey, which resulted in Goldberg being knocked out. Hart then counted his own pinfall over Goldberg's unconscious body and announced over the mic: \"Hey Bischoff, and the WCW, I quit!\" In reality, he had suffered a groin injury at the hands of Dean Malenko in November and needed time off for surgery.\n\nOn May 23, 1999, the night before Hart was scheduled to make an appearance on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" to hype his imminent WCW return, his brother Owen Hart died in an accident during a WWF pay-per-view. Hart took a further four months off from WCW to be with his family.\n\nHart returned to wrestling on the September 13, 1999 edition of \"Nitro\" in a tag team match with Hulk Hogan against Sting and Lex Luger. Hart challenged for Sting's WCW World Heavyweight Championship on the October 18 edition of \"Nitro\", but lost the match when he was attacked by Luger. Due to controversy over a series of WCW World Heavyweight Championship matches between Sting, Hogan, and Goldberg at Halloween Havoc, the title was declared vacant. A tournament then took place over several episodes of \"Nitro\". Hart's first round match came against Goldberg the night after Halloween Havoc, with the bout being a tournament match for a berth in the next round, as well as being a match for the United States Heavyweight Championship that Goldberg had won the night before. Thanks to outside interference, Hart defeated Goldberg and won the title for the fourth time. On the November 8 episode of \"Nitro\", Hart lost the title to Scott Hall in a ladder match which also involved Sid Vicious and Goldberg.\n\nHart won the WCW World Heavyweight Championship tournament by defeating Perry Saturn, Billy Kidman, Sting, and Chris Benoit at Mayhem. On December 7, Hart and Goldberg won the WCW World Tag Team Championship from Creative Control, making Hart a double champion. Hart and Goldberg lost the tag team titles to The Outsiders on the December 13 episode of \"Nitro\". At Starrcade, Hart defended his WCW World Heavyweight Championship against Goldberg. During the match, Hart was struck with a thrust kick to the head, resulting in a severe concussion. Hart later speculated that he may have suffered up to three additional concussions within matches over the course of that day along with the days immediately following Starrcade, having been unaware of the severity of his injuries. For example, Hart placed Goldberg on the post in a figure four leglock which ended with Hart hitting his head on the concrete floor when Goldberg failed to receive the move correctly. The sum total of those injuries left Hart with post-concussion syndrome and ultimately forced his retirement from professional wrestling. Hart later claimed that Goldberg \"had a tendency to injure everyone he worked with.\" As part of his DVD documentary, Hart expressed regret that \"someone as good-hearted as Bill Goldberg\" was responsible for hurting him. Referee Roddy Piper rung the bell when Hart held Goldberg in the Sharpshooter, although Goldberg did not submit. Piper simply walked away, leaving both Goldberg and Hart bewildered.\n\nOut of respect for Goldberg, Hart vacated the WCW World Heavyweight Championship on the December 20 episode of \"Nitro\" and suggested that he, without the championship advantage, face Goldberg that night to determine the true champion. During the match, Scott Hall and Kevin Nash came to the ring looking to attack Goldberg with baseball bats. Hart convinced them to stop, then hit Goldberg with one of the bats. The three continued to beat down Goldberg and were eventually joined by Jeff Jarrett. Hart regained the championship, even though it was Roddy Piper who was covering Goldberg (to try and protect him) when the three count was made. The nWo was reformed (now billed as \"nWo 2000\"). Hart wrestled Terry Funk to a no contest in a non-title, hardcore rules match on the January 6 edition of \"Thunder\". In his final match in WCW, he defended the WCW World Heavyweight Championship against Nash on the January 10 edition of \"Nitro\", which also ended in a no contest. Hart vacated the title in late January 2000 when he was forced to withdraw from the main event of WCW's Souled Out due to his injuries. Hart continued to make appearances on WCW television, generally cutting promos. on the May 3 edition of Thunder, Hart made a run in during an over the top rope battle royal where he hit Hogan with a chair. His final WCW appearance occurred on the September 6, 2000 edition of \"Thunder\", in a promo where he confronted Bill Goldberg on the injury he sustained nine months prior. WCW terminated Hart's contract via FedEx letter on October 20, 2000, due to his ongoing incapacity, and he announced his retirement from professional wrestling soon afterward.\n\nHart and several critics considered his storylines during his tenure to be lacklustre. Former WCW wrestler Chris Jericho attributed this to backstage politics and creative mayhem. Hart cited his \"steel plate\" segment with Goldberg and his tribute match to Owen, against Chris Benoit, as his two worthwhile moments with the company. He said he was \"proud\" to have been WCW World Heavyweight Champion for a short time prior to his injury.\n\nIn 2001, Hart became the on-screen commissioner of World Wrestling All-Stars (WWA), a role that ended prematurely due to a 2002 stroke, which temporarily required him to use a wheelchair. In his first major appearance since recovering, Hart traveled to Auckland, New Zealand to appear at another WWA event in May 2003.\n\nIn 2007, Hart signed autographs at \"The Legends of Wrestling\" show at the Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida. During the months of October and November 2008, Hart went on tour with American Wrestling Rampage promotions, touring many places throughout the UK and Ireland, posing for photographs and signing autographs before the show. On the weekend of July 11, 2009, he made an appearance at One Pro Wrestling in Doncaster, England, where he held a Q&A, and then entered the ring to address the fans at the show. On September 27, 2009, Hart appeared in New York City's Manhattan Center to sign autographs during a Ring of Honor event. He spoke to the crowd, reminiscing about some of his more memorable matches in New York.\n\nIn mid-2005, Hart worked with the renamed World Wrestling Entertainment for the first time since 1997, contributing hours of interview footage and selecting matches for his WWE Home Video release, \"\".\n\nOn April 1, 2006, Hart was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2006 by Stone Cold Steve Austin. He did not appear alongside his fellow inductees at WrestleMania 22 the following night. On June 11, 2007, Hart made his first appearance on \"Raw\" since October 27, 1997 when he appeared in a pre-taped interview voicing his opinions on Vince McMahon as part of \"Mr. McMahon Appreciation Night.\"\n\nHart re-signed with WWE in late 2009. On December 28, after weeks of speculation surrounding Hart and his presence in World Wrestling Entertainment, Chairman Vince McMahon announced that Hart would be special guest host on the January 4 \"Raw\". Hart thanked the fans for their continued support, jokingly teased announcer Jerry Lawler about their long-running 1990s feud, and confronted Shawn Michaels and McMahon regarding the Montreal Screwjob at Survivor Series in 1997. Hart and Michaels were able to agree on a truce, shaking hands and hugging. While many cast doubts on the sincerity of their reconciliation, both men have confirmed that it was indeed genuine and not part of storyline. It also appeared that he had buried the hatchet with McMahon later in the night, until McMahon subsequently kicked Bret in the crotch (this was in fact part of a storyline, as Hart and McMahon had been on speaking terms since 2005).\n\nDuring different encounters the following month, Hart and McMahon reproduced events similar to those that occurred in the Montreal Screwjob: McMahon spitting in Hart's face (as Hart did to McMahon), and Hart destroying parts of the technical equipment that goes into producing \"Raw\" (as he did to the Survivor Series equipment). On the February 15 \"Raw\", Hart made a farewell from WWE, but as he left to go inside his limousine, another vehicle reversed into the door of his limo and injured his left leg. On the March 1 \"Raw\", McMahon challenged Hart to a match at WrestleMania XXVI; Hart accepted. The match was later changed to a No Holds Barred match as Hart revealed (with help from \"Stone Cold\" Steve Austin, the special guest host that night) the staging of his injury. Hart, along with his family, inducted his father Stu Hart into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2010, a controversial decision that aggravated Hart and McMahon's rivalry in 2010. At WrestleMania, McMahon attempted to buy Hart's family into turning against him; however, they turned against McMahon instead and helped Hart defeat McMahon.\nHart stood with The Hart Dynasty (David Hart Smith and Tyson Kidd), a stable stemmed from the Hart family, throughout their feud with ShoMiz (Big Show and The Miz); they ultimately won the WWE Tag Team Championship on April 26. When The Miz lost a match that guaranteed a WWE United States Championship match to a Hart family member, he chose Bret; with the help of the Dynasty, Hart defeated The Miz to win his fifth United States Championship on May 17 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On the May 24 edition of \"Raw\", Hart was named the new general manager of Raw. His first orders included vacating his United States Championship, which R-Truth won, and setting up qualifying matches for Fatal 4-Way, which the injured Batista took exception to and quit. The next week, Hart declared a Viewer's Choice episode of \"Raw\". He was attacked by NXT rookies after firing Wade Barrett and declining to offer them contracts on the June 14 episode of \"Raw\". A week later, McMahon fired Hart as general manager for failing to control the rookies.\n\nHart returned five weeks later, where it was announced by John Cena that he, The Great Khali, R-Truth, Edge, Chris Jericho, John Morrison and Hart would face the NXT rookies, now known as The Nexus, at SummerSlam. The following week, Hart teamed with Cena to wrestle SummerSlam teammates Edge and Chris Jericho to a no contest. In the SummerSlam main event, he was disqualified for using a steel chair on Skip Sheffield, however, his team still ultimately won the match. On the August 16, episode of \"Raw\", Hart introduced the new tag team title belts to the champions, The Hart Dynasty. Later on in the night during The Nexus vs. \"Raw\" challenge, Hart was scheduled to face Justin Gabriel, but was unable to compete after the Anonymous Raw General Manager, citing his disdain for Hart, removed him from the match and replaced him with Randy Orton. On September 25, WWE hosted a tribute event to Hart in Madison Square Garden, where he and the Hart Dynasty defeated Nexus members Heath Slater, Justin Gabriel and Michael Tarver in a six-man tag team match, when Gabriel submitted to Hart's Sharpshooter. In November 2010, Hart's WWE contract had expired.\n\nAt Over the Limit, Hart came to the support of his long-running 1990s rival, Jerry Lawler, forcing Michael Cole to kiss Lawler's foot. The following night on \"Raw\", Hart refereed the main event, which saw John Cena and Rey Mysterio defeat R-Truth and CM Punk with Hart's assistance. On the August 23, 2011 tapings of \"SmackDown\" (aired August 26), Hart served as guest general manager. On September 12, Hart teamed with John Cena in a match against Alberto Del Rio and Ricardo Rodriguez, which he won after putting Rodriguez into a sharpshooter. This was Hart's final match.\n\nHart has made infrequent appearances in minor roles, appearing on the April 25, 2011 edition of \"Tough Enough\". At \"Raw 1000\" and on the May 4, 2012 episode of \"Raw\" he served as guest ring announcer; he interviewed John Cena on September 10, 2012, during which CM Punk interrupted and got into a confrontation with Hart. He participated in backstage segments at the 2013 Royal Rumble and WrestleMania 31. On the post-show of \"Raw\" on May 27, 2013, Hart was honored by the city of Calgary and the WWE with a \"Bret Hart Appreciation Night\", a celebration of the work he had done in his career. Also present in the ring for this celebration were Pat Patterson, Chris Jericho, Shawn Michaels and Vince McMahon, who each paid their own tributes to Hart. He has also served as an expert on panels, including the March 25, 2013 episode of \"Raw\" and at the NXT Arrival pre-show. Hart was in the corner of his niece Natalya on the March 27, 2014 episode of \"NXT\", at the second NXT TakeOver event and at the 2016 edition of Payback. The match ended when the referee, Charles Robinson, called for the bell as Charlotte had Natalya locked in the Sharpshooter. After the match both Natalya and Hart placed Charlotte and her father, Ric Flair in the Sharpshooter.\n\nHart is nicknamed \"The Hitman\", and often dubbed \"The Best There Is, the Best There Was, and the Best There Ever Will Be\". Hart usually wrestled in a pink attire and, during his time as The Hart Foundation, the tag team was nicknamed \"The Pink and Black Attack\", a nickname Hart used for himself during his singles career.\n\nHart used the Sharpshooter as his finishing maneuver. In his biography, Hart said he learned the hold from Konnan and Pat Patterson named it. Due to Hart's success, the Sharpshooter is usually used by Canadian wrestlers. Before ending his matches, Hart usually employed a sequence of five moves: inverted atomic drop, Russian leg sweep, backbreaker, elbow drop from the second rope, and Sharpshooter, being known as the \"Five Moves of Doom\". During his time in the original Hart Foundation, he and Jim Neidhart performed the Hart Attack as their finisher manoeuver.\n\nAccording to clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson, Hart was at one point the most famous Canadian in the world. BBC and \"Entertainment Tonight\" writers noted that Hart is \"widely regarded\" as one of the greatest professional wrestlers of all time. Sky Sports described his legacy as \"one of, if not the greatest, to have ever graced the squared circle\". Veteran industry journalist Dave Meltzer called Hart \"one of the best ever,\" and further praised his ring psychology as the best in WWE history (alongside that of Ricky Steamboat, and \"maybe Jake Roberts\"). Jon Robinson of IGN called him \"one of the greatest (if not the single best) pure wrestler to ever walk that aisle\". Veteran wrestlers including CM Punk, Booker T and Michael Hayes have named Hart \"the greatest of all time\", with Hayes noting that he is considered by many as the best Canadian performer ever, if not the single greatest overall. Veteran announcer Gene Okerlund dubbed Hart \"the greatest ever\", and stressed that he should appear in anyone's list of the all-time top 10 wrestlers. Olympic wrestling gold medalist and six-time WWE world champion Kurt Angle studied tapes of Hart in order to learn the art of pro wrestling; he and Stone Cold Steve Austin have ranked Hart as the best in-ring performer ever (Austin tying Hart with Shawn Michaels). Similarly, former opponent Harley Race described Hart as being \"as good as they got\". WWE chairman Vince McMahon described Hart as having \"unparalleled\" technical wrestling and storytelling skills, and retrospectively characterized the late 1990s Hart as a performer \"who you know is going to give you the best match of the night every time he goes out there\".\n\nThe Undertaker named Hart as his toughest opponent, adding: \"Some of my favorite matches are with him... I think my matches with Bret were some of the best\". Shawn Michaels conceded that Hart was an \"unbelievable\" performer (an opinion shared by WWE executive and former opponent Triple H), calling him a \"sheer joy\" to work with and saying that the pair's match at WrestleMania XII was one of, if not his favorite WrestleMania bout. Curt Hennig stated: \"Out of all the matches I had, probably the best match I ever had would be with Bret [at SummerSlam 1991]... I have a good thing with Bret forever.\" Roddy Piper described Hart as \"one great man\", and \"one of the few guys who has a 'total package'\". Asked about his favorite opponent, Ted DiBiase said: \"In my own era, without a doubt, Bret Hart.\" Lance Storm remarked: \"[Hart's] matches always seemed more important than the individuals involved in them, and that's what made him great. Bret managed to dominate this sport... by wrestling, which is no easy task, and is to his credit\". On Hart's influence, Storm said: \"I've always tried to pattern my ring style or work ethic, at least, after that of 'The Hitman'\".\n\nAlong with Storm, Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn point to Hart as their top wrestling inspiration; Seth Rollins and Jinder Mahal called him an idol, and Dean Ambrose cited him as an influence. Edge listed his three idols within the business as \"Bret, Shawn and Hulk\". Chris Jericho named Bret as his hero (along with Owen Hart), and said he aspired to be \"half of\" what Bret was. Chris Benoit remarked: \"I always emulated him... I spent so many years looking up to, idolizing [Hart]; he was somewhat of a role model to me\". Benoit added that his matches against Hart were \"up on a pedestal\". Koji Nakagawa modelled his character and entire career on Bret Hart by adopting Hart's pink and black attire, an entrance theme identical to Hart's theme song, while also adopting his moveset. Ryback recalled a WWF event from his childhood, saying: \"I remember it was Bret Hart against Diesel inside a steel cage in the main event, and I just knew I wanted to be a WWE wrestler... Bret [Hart], I love\". Asked about his favorite wrestlers/idols, Wade Barrett named Hart along with The British Bulldog, The Ultimate Warrior and The Undertaker; he has called Hart vs. the Bulldog, at SummerSlam 1992, his all-time favorite match.\n\n\"Pro Wrestling Illustrated\" (PWI) readers voted Hart the greatest wrestler of 1993 and 1994 in the \"PWI 500\", as well as the \"Most Inspirational Wrestler of the Year\" 1994. He was voted \"WWF Superstar of the Year\" 1993 by fans. PWI ranked him No. 4 of the top 500 singles wrestlers of the \"PWI Years\" in 2003, after Hulk Hogan, Ric Flair, and André the Giant. WWE has also credited Hart as the top \"Submission Specialist\" in professional wrestling history, and for popularizing the Sharpshooter, named by the organization as the most devastating submission hold in professional wrestling history. Hart's rise to singles success was seen to revolutionize the business; IGN wrote: \"After Bret beat Ric Flair for the WWE Championship in 1992, it changed the entire industry, re-setting the WWF back to the days of technical wizardry and reshaping all our notions of what a great wrestling match should actually look and feel like\". According to prominent industry historian Dave Meltzer, Hart was \"a major draw in the United States and probably more so in Europe\". WWE owner Vince McMahon asserted that whichever company hired Hart could \"have built the entire franchise around [him]\", and described him as an \"extraordinary star.\" McMahon added that it was \"fortunate for me, in terms of my company\", that his chief competitor, WCW, did not utilize Hart to his full potential. WCW described Hart as \"an incredible international draw, attracting standing room only crowds in every corner of the globe.\" Professional wrestling magazine \"Power Slam\" has spoken to Hart's drawing power, placing him number 7 in \"The 10 Best U.S.-Style All-Rounders\", a list that considered drawing ability, along with workrate and promo skills.\n\nOn the February 16, 2006 episode of \"Raw\", it was announced that Hart would be an inductee into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2006. Hart had also been approached by Vince McMahon for a potential match between the two at WrestleMania 22 but declined the offer. On April 1, 2006, Hart was inducted by \"Stone Cold\" Steve Austin. He thanked every wrestler he worked with (even thanking Vince McMahon) and said he's \"in a good place in life.\" Veteran industry personality and former WWE executive Paul Heyman referred to Hart's oeuvre as \"a body of work so spectacular that it is beyond comprehension how brilliant a career he enjoyed\".\n\nOn July 15, 2006, Hart was inducted into the George Tragos/Lou Thesz Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame, at the International Wrestling Institute and Museum in Newton, Iowa. The induction took place in an immensely crowded and humid display room showcasing one of Hart's ring entrance jackets. The honor is only awarded to those with both a professional and amateur wrestling background, making Hart one of the youngest inductees. During his acceptance, Hart compared this induction to his place in the WWE Hall of Fame, saying \"This is a much bigger honor for me.\" In June 2008, Hart returned to the George Tragos/Lou Thesz Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame ceremony, this time to induct his father Stu Hart.\n\nHart wrote a weekly column for the \"Calgary Sun\" from June 1991 until October 2004.\n\nOn October 16, 2007, Hart's autobiography titled \"Hitman: My Real Life in the Cartoon World of Wrestling\", was released in Canada by Random House Canada, and released in fall 2008 in the United States by Grand Central Publishing, with a U.S. book signing tour. Hart began writing the book in July 1999 with Marcy Engelstein, his longtime close friend and business associate. They did not complete the book until eight years later in September 2007 due to Hart suffering his stroke in 2002, among numerous other tragedies that occurred during the writing. Hart's chronicle is based on an audio diary that he kept for all of his years on the road in professional wrestling.\n\nHart also provided the forewords to Roddy Piper's autobiography, \"In the Pit with Piper\", Harley Race's autobiography \"King of the Ring\" and Dave Meltzer's book \"\".\n\nIn 1994, Hart played a prison inmate in Oliver Stone's \"Natural Born Killers\"; however, the scene he appeared in was deleted. From 1994 to 1995 Hart appeared in \"Lonesome Dove: The Series\" television show playing \"Luther Root\". He has made numerous televised appearances since, including a guest spot on \"The Simpsons\" in 1997 (as himself, in \"The Old Man and the Lisa\") and episodes of the \"\" (along with his brother Owen), \"The Adventures of Sinbad\", \"Big Sound\", and \"The Immortal\". Hart provides the voice of pro wrestler character \"The Hooded Fang\" in \"Jacob Two-Two\".\n\nHart also guest starred on the sketch comedy series \"MADtv\" in 1997 where he acted as enforcer at a fan's house, appearing with his WWF Championship belt. Hart later appeared again on \"MADtv\" in 1999 and 2000 in an angle with actor Will Sasso in which the two feuded on the set of \"MADtv\" and in World Championship Wrestling; this culminated in a grudge match on \"WCW Monday Nitro\", where Hart decisively defeated Sasso.\n\nHart donned his \"Hit Man\" singlet, along with additional costume, and executed wrestling maneuvers on villain characters, as part of his performance as the Genie in a 2004 stage production of \"Aladdin\". He reprised the role in 2006.\n\nHart was the subject of the 1998 documentary, \"\", which chronicled many of the events in Hart's personal and professional life from September 1996 to November 1997, including the Montreal Screwjob and its immediate aftermath.\n\nA clip of Hart applying the sharpshooter to Benoit at WCW Mayhem in 1999 is featured in the opening credits of \"Malcolm in the Middle\".\n\nIn mid-2005, WWE announced the release of a three-disc DVD originally named \"Screwed: The Bret Hart Story\", with the title a reference to the Montreal Screwjob. Hart filmed over seven hours of interview footage for the DVD, which was renamed \"\". The collection was released on November 15, 2005.\n\nHart appeared on many talk shows (including \"Larry King Live\", \"Nancy Grace\", \"Hannity & Colmes\", \"On the Record w/ Greta Van Susteren\") discussing the Chris Benoit double murder and suicide. Hart was a long time friend of Benoit.\n\nOn April 6, 2010, WWE released \"\", which is a 3 DVD set featuring a documentary on the Hart wrestling family as well as 12 matches. It is unique in that it also features previously unseen home movies from the Harts as well as interviews from family members.\n\nIn 2010, The Fight Network produced a documentary titled \"\" produced by John Pollock, Jorge Barbosa and Wai Ting chronicling the rise of Hart, his split with WWE in 1997 and his road back to the company in January 2010. The documentary features interviews with Hart, members of the Hart family, Hart's former business manager Carl De Marco, former sports agent Gord Kirke, and producer of \"Wrestling with Shadows\" Paul Jay.\n\nA DVD entitled \"Shawn Michaels vs Bret Hart: WWE's Greatest Rivalries\" was released in November 2011. The subject of the DVD was their on-screen rivalry and real-life conflicts, with a particular focus on the Montreal Screwjob.\n\nIn 2016, Hart starred in the documentary film \"Nine Legends\". Early that year, Hart launched a podcast named \"The Sharpshooter Show\".\n\nHart has appeared in numerous video games. They include WWE All Stars, WWE '13, WWE 2K14, WWE 2K16, WWE 2K17 and WWE 2K18.\n\nHart lent his nickname to the Calgary Hitmen of the Western Hockey League; he was a founder and part-owner. He is the commissioner of Sharpshooter Funding, a business loan company.\n\nOn August 23, 2018, Hart was honored with a traditional Niitsitapi naming ceremony and named 'Courageous Chief' by Siksika Elder Miiksika’am (Clarence Wolfleg). The ceremony was done as recognition for his and his father Stu Hart's cultural relationship building contributions, such as promoting interest of the sport of amateur wrestling among indigenous youth throughout Western Canada.\n\nHart married Julie Smadu (born March 25, 1960) on July 8, 1982. They have four children: Jade Michelle Hart (born March 31, 1983); Dallas Jeffery Hart (born August 11, 1984); Alexandra Sabina Hart (born May 17, 1988), nicknamed \"Beans\"; and Blade Colton Hart (born June 5, 1990). The four hearts located on the right thigh of his tights symbolize his children, as do the four dots following his signature. Julie's sister Michelle was married to Tom Billington from 1982 to 1991. Bret and Julie separated in May 1998, and after several brief reunions over the next 4 years, eventually divorced on June 24, 2002, just hours before Hart suffered his stroke. Hart married an Italian woman named Cinzia Rota on September 15, 2004, but they divorced in 2007 after failing to agree on where they should live. He married Stephanie Washington on July 24, 2010. Through his daughters Jade and Alexandra, Hart has a granddaughter, Kyra Beans (born June 2010) and two grandsons, Grayson Knight Cassidy (born June 20, 2015) and Bo (born April 2016).\n\nHis seven brothers were either wrestlers or involved backstage with the wrestling business; his four sisters all married professional wrestlers. Two of his brothers-in-law, Davey Boy Smith, and Jim Neidhart had successful careers in the business. His youngest brother Owen Hart had become a decorated wrestler in his own right before his death in 1999, caused in an accident at the WWF pay-per-view Over the Edge. Hart's niece Natalya is a professional wrestler.\n\nFellow pro wrestler Roddy Piper claimed in his autobiography to be a cousin of Hart. Hart has also stated that Piper was the only wrestler to visit him in the hospital after his stroke.\n\nOn June 24, 2002, Hart suffered a stroke after hitting his head in a bicycle accident. \"The Calgary Herald\" reported that Hart hit a pothole, flew over the handlebars of the bike, and landed on the back of his head. Hart suffered total paralysis on his left side, which required months of physical therapy. Hart has since recovered much of his mobility and is in good health, although he suffers from an emotional imbalance and other lasting effects common to stroke survivors. Hart wrote in detail about his stroke in his autobiography, \"Hitman: My Real Life In The Cartoon World of Wrestling\". Hart later became a spokesperson for March of Dimes Canada's Stroke Recovery Canada program. While recovering from his stroke Hart would train three days a week at B.J's Gym in Calgary, which was owned by his brother-in-law B.J. Annis.\n\nOn February 1, 2016, Hart announced through a Facebook post that he had been diagnosed with prostate cancer. Jim Ross claimed on March 2, 2016 that Hart had beaten the disease following successful surgery and that it appeared not to have spread to other areas of his body. Hart responded to Jim Ross' comments through Facebook saying that although the surgery was a success and that he and his doctors were optimistic, he would continue to be monitored every three months by doctors until he can actually be cancer free.\n\nIn October 1993, Hart gave a radio interview in which he said Ric Flair \"sucks\", and described his workplace, WCW, as \"minor league\". In his autobiography, Flair accused Hart of exploiting the death of his brother, Owen Hart, and the controversy surrounding the Montreal Screwjob. Flair also claimed in his autobiography that, despite Hart's popularity in Canada, he was not a formidable money-making draw in the United States, a claim which Hart dismissed as \"plain ridiculous\" in a column written for the \"Calgary Sun\". Hart claimed that he drew greater revenue than Flair, citing his headlining performances on consistently sold-out tours throughout his WWF career, while Flair wrestled to allegedly near-empty arenas. He also criticized Flair on what he perceived as insults to fellow wrestlers Mick Foley and Randy Savage. Hart did acknowledge a decline in the WWF's popularity during the mid-1990s, but he, and others, felt that this was largely attributed to the WWF's well-publicised sex and steroid scandals, as well as WCW's acquisition of former top WWF stars. Hart also took aim at Flair in his autobiography, criticizing his in-ring talents and what Hart perceived as Flair's unsubtle blading.\n\nFlair and Hart have since reconciled and are now friends.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPrint\n\nFilm\n\nBiographies\n\nDocumentaries\n\nRadio\n\nVideos\n\nInterviews\n\nArticles\n\n"}
{"id": "11678035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11678035", "title": "British Record Society", "text": "British Record Society\n\nThe British Record Society is a British learned society that focuses on publishing historic records, or, more specifically, indexes to such records. In recent years, the Society has concentrated on the publication of name indexes to English probate records, and the texts of 17th-century Hearth Tax returns.\n\nThe Society was founded in 1889 to take over the Index Library, which had begun life the previous year as W.P.W. Phillimore's private scheme for the publication of indexes to British public records, which is now the brief of the List and Index Society. The Society was also always interested in record conservation, and to act as what would now be called a pressure group for archives and their users, pushing for the creation of county record offices and county record societies. The inception of an official series of Lists and Indexes in 1892 reduced the need for private publication of indexes to records in the Public Record Office. The Society consequently turned its attention to records held in other repositories.\n\nIn 1898 the Society’s Scottish section became the totally independent Scottish Record Society. In 1933 the Society’s Record Preservation Section similarly took off to become the germ of the British Records Association (B.R.A).\n\nSince the 1930s, the British Record Society has been primarily a publishing society for English records, frequently in conjunction with county historical societies. By 2012, 126 volumes of the Index Library had been published over 123 years, besides two extra volumes and some microfiche. Over the past half century the Society has largely, but not exclusively, concentrated on the publication of name indexes to probate records, and the texts of Hearth Tax returns from the 1660s and 1670s.\n\nA longer history of the Society and its current activities will be found on its website.\n\nA complete list of its publications up to 1982 will be found in E.L.C. Mullins, \"Texts and Calendars\", I and II, Royal Historical Society, 1958 and 1983. Details of those published after 1982 can be found on the Royal Historical Society's website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15733772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15733772", "title": "Buyer's credit", "text": "Buyer's credit\n\nBuyer credit is a short term credit available to an importer (buyer) from overseas lenders such as banks and other financial institution for goods they are importing. The overseas banks usually lend the importer (buyer) based on the letter of comfort (a bank guarantee) issued by the importer's bank. For this service the importer's bank or buyer's credit consultant charges a fee called an arrangement fee.\n\nBuyer's credit helps local importers gain access to cheaper foreign funds that may be closer to LIBOR rates as against local sources of funding which are more costly.\n\nThe duration of buyer's credit may vary from country to country, as per the local regulations. For example, in India, buyer's credit can be availed for one year in case the import is for tradeable goods and for three years if the import is for capital goods.\n\nBuyer's credit has several advantages for the importer.\nThe exporter gets paid on due date; whereas importer gets extended date for making an import payment as per the cash flows.\nThe importer can deal with exporter on sight basis, negotiate a better discount and use the buyers credit route to avail financing.\nThe funding currency can be depending on the choice of the customer and availability of LIBOR rates in the exchange market. \nThe importer can use this financing for any form of payment mode, such as: open account, collections, or LCs.\n\n\nInterest cost is charged by overseas bank as a financing cost.\n\nBuyer's credit is associated with currency risk.\nThus, Hedging may be required as foreign currency is involved, making Buyer's Credit risky at times.\n\nBanks can provide buyer’s credit up to US$20 million (US$ 2 crore) per import transactions for a maximum maturity period of one year from date of shipment. In case of import of capital goods, banks can approve buyer’s credits up to $20 million per transaction with a maturity period of up to three years. No rollover beyond that period is permitted.\n\nAs per RBI directives dated 11.07.13, at the time of availment of trade credit, the period of trade credit should be linked to the operating cycle and trade transaction. AD banks need to ensure that these instructions are strictly complied with.\n\nRBI has issued directions under Sec 10(4) and Sec 11(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, stating that authorized dealers may approve proposals received (in Form ECB) for short-term credit for financing—by way of either suppliers' credit or buyers' credit—of import of goods into India, based on uniform criteria. Credit is to be extended for a period of less than three years; amount of credit should not exceed $20 million, per import transaction; the `all-in-cost' per annum, payable for the credit is not to exceed 6 months LIBOR + 350 basis points for credit up to one year, and LIBOR + 125 basis points for credits for periods beyond one year but less than three years, for the currency of credit.\n\nAll applications for short-term credit exceeding $20 million for any import transaction are to be forwarded to the Chief General Manager, Exchange Control Department, Reserve Bank of India, Central Office, External Commercial Borrowing (ECB) Division, Mumbai. Each credit has to be given `a unique identification number' by authorised dealers and the number so allotted should be quoted in all references. The International Banking Division of the authorised dealer is required to furnish the details of approvals granted by all its branches, during the month, in Form ECB-ST to the RBI, so as to reach not later than 5th of the following month. (Circular AP (DIR Series) No 24 dated September 27, 2002.\n\nAs per RBI Master circular on External Commercial Borrowing and Trade Finance 1 July 2011, the all-in cost ceiling for interest is now six month L + 200 (bps is Basis Points . A unit that is equal to 1/100th of 1%) for buyer's credit arrange for tenure up to three years. All cost ceiling includes arranger fee, upfront fee, management fee, handling and processing charges, out-of-pocket and legal expenses, if any.\n\nThe above ceiling got revised on 15/11/2011 to 6 Month Libor + 350 and got further extended on 30/03/2012 till 30/09/2012. From 01-10-2012 Maximum cap of 6 Month Libor + 350 bsp has been extended till further review.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43263181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43263181", "title": "Chronicle of Ioannina", "text": "Chronicle of Ioannina\n\nThe Chronicle of Ioannina is a prose chronicle written in Greek about the history of Ioannina during the rule of Thomas Preljubović, the Serb Despot of Epirus, who was based in Ioannina in the second half of the 14th century.\n\nThe \"Chronicle\" was first attributed to the monks Proklos and Komnenos, and was therefore initially known as the \"Chronicle of Proklos and Komnenos\". The \"Chronicle\" is deeply prejudiced and hostile against Preljubović. It portrays Thomas Preljubović as a ruthless and despotic tyrant, while his wife Maria Angelina Doukaina Palaiologina is described with more flattering words.\n\nThe \"Chronicle of Ioannina\" is an invaluable source of information on the history of the Epirus region during the late Middle Ages. Among other information, it mentions a naval landing in Lake Pamvotis on February 26, 1379, by Albanian, Bulgarian and Vlach raiders.\n\n"}
{"id": "48583855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48583855", "title": "Conservation and restoration at the Smithsonian Institution", "text": "Conservation and restoration at the Smithsonian Institution\n\nConservation and restoration at the Smithsonian Institution deals with the care of the 138 million artifacts located in the collections of Smithsonian Institution. Work is conducted by one research center, the Museum Conservation Institute (MCI), and by conservators at the Smithsonian's museums, galleries, zoo. Smithsonian conservators provide myriad services to their units, including exhibit preparation of the museum collection and loan objects, advising on object care, training for future generations of conservationists, engaging in routine preventive care on a daily basis, conducting research projects related to the collections, and examining objects for evidence of manufacturing techniques and previous restorations\nAll conservation labs collectively further the mission of the Smithsonian Institution, \"the increase and diffusion of knowledge.\" Founded in 1846 the Smithsonian is the world's largest museum and research complex, consisting of 19 museums and galleries, the National Zoological Park, and nine research facilities.\n\nMuseum Conservation Institute, the only research center focused on conservation, provides technical studies and scientific analyses for most of the Smithsonian’s collections, and brings unique analytical capabilities to Smithsonian researchers, including a central mass spectroscopy instrument core and advanced technological capabilities. MCI is a center for specialized technical collection research and conservation for all Smithsonian units and collections, and these services are available at no charge.\n\nNew Insights into the Cleaning of Paintings” conference held at the Universidad Politécnica de Valencia and Museum Conservation Institute\n\nThe National Museum of African Art houses a state-of-the-art conservation laboratory, which includes a complete x-radiography system with digital imaging. The conservation department routinely collaborates with MCI and other SI units to analyze African art materials, investigate manufacturing processes, and resolve treatment problems. In turn, the department serves as a national and international authority on the conservation of African art.\n\nThe Walt Disney-Tishman African Art Collection.\n\nWax Coatings on Ethnographic Metal Objects: Justifications for Allowing a Tradition to Wane by Dana Moffett\n\nAt the National Air and Space Museum, the Emil Buehler Conservation Laboratory and the Mary Baker Engen Restoration Hangar is where conservators devise innovative treatment plans, offer guidance on storage and exhibition conditions, and determine the best possible ways to preserve the artifacts of the National Air and Space Museum which has two locations; one, on the National Mall, and the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center, in Chantilly Virginia for future generations.\n\n1903 Wright Flyer, \"Spirit of St. Louis\", Spaceship One, Apollo 11 command module, Hubble Space Telescope test vehicle, pace Shuttle \"Discovery\", B-29 Super-fortress \"Enola Gay\", Concorde, Lockheed Martin SR-71 Blackbird, and Boeing Stratoliner.\n\nHistory, Care, and Handling of America's Spacesuits: Problems in Modern Materials by Mary T. Baker & Ed McManus\n\nAt the Smithsonian American Art Museum, the Lunder Conservation Center, serves as the conservation center for three Smithsonian units; the American Art Museum, the National Portrait Gallery, and the Renwick Gallery. Lunder is the first art conservation facility to allow the public permanent behind-the-scenes views of the preservation work of museums. The Center features floor-to-ceiling glass walls that allow the public to view all aspects of conservation work— work that is traditionally done behind the scenes at other museums and conservation centers. Interactive kiosks and special displays make it easy for visitors to learn about the importance of conservation and show how to take an active role in caring for public art and monuments, as well as how to care for personal treasures at home.\n\nPhotography, modern folk and self-taught art, African American art, Latino art, New Deal art, impressionist paintings, complete collection of presidential portraits and American contemporary crafts and decorative arts from the 19th to the 21st centuries.\n\nBlow It Off: Moving Beyond Compressed Air With Carbon Dioxide Snow by L. H. (Hugh) Shockey Jr.\n\nConservation for National Museum of the American Indian's collection is conducted at the Cultural Resources Center (CRC), the second of three facilities comprising the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian. The facility is state-of-the-art and includes separate laboratories for working on textiles and objects, a technical library, a photography studio, a scientific analytical lab, and mount-making spaces. In addition, the office actively engages in conservation training—on and off-site— and is committed to conducting research working in partnership with Native Americans on ethnographic and archaeological materials.\n\nWall of gold objects, Geronimo’s rifle.\n\nWoven by the Grandmothers: Twenty-Four Blankets Travel to the Navajo Nation by Susan Heald & Kathleen E. Ash-Milby\n\nConservation at the Freer & Sackler Galleries of Art is broken into four sections:Asian Paintings, Objects, Paper, and Exhibitions. Conservators are responsible for conducting technical examinations of objects already in the collection and those under consideration for acquisition. They also collaborate frequently with the department’s scientists on technical and applied research. Training and professional outreach efforts are an integral part of the department’s commitment to educating future conservators, museum professionals, and the public about conservation.\n\nSouth Asian sculpture, Chinese jades and bronzes, modern Japanese ceramics, Chinese paintings, Indian sculpture, Islamic painting and metal-ware, Japanese lacquer, Korean ceramics, Whistler’s Peacock Room.\n\nThe Treatment of Chinese Ancestor Portraits: An Introduction to Chinese Painting Conservation Techniques by Valerie Lee, Xiangmei Gu & Yuan-Li Hou\n\nWithin the conservation lab at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, specialized activities for the treatment and care of paintings, sculpture, works on paper, and time-based media are performed. As an aid in treatment and to better understand the artist’s creative methods and materials, conservators closely examine works of art using a variety of technical tools, including stereo-binocular microscopes and ultraviolet light. Conservators also use an array of analytical methods to identify under-drawings, pigments, binding media, and coating materials. All treatments involve collaboration with curators, and frequently scientists, to determine the condition of a work of art, guide treatment decisions, and examine the artist’s working methods and procedures.\n\nIn-depth collection of modern masters and works by emerging artists; cutting-edge films; sculptures by Rodin, Matisse, and Moore.\n\nFormation of a Long-Term Preservation Plan for a Computer Program by Siebren Versteeg\n\nThe Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute (SCBI) serves as an umbrella for the Smithsonian’s global effort to conserve species and train future generations of conservationists. Ecological processes are highly complex... life and the world are dynamic and ever-changing—it is only with long-term records that many [biological] trends can be deciphered. The SCBI is the only unit of the Smithsonian Institution exclusively devoted to the study of wildlife conservation.\n\nGiant pandas, Asian elephants, white-naped cranes, western lowland gorillas, Sumatran tigers, cheetahs, and North Island brown kiwis.\n\nGlobal Tiger Initiative\n\nAt the National Museum of Natural History, the Anthropology Conservation Laboratory (ACL) conducts conservation on the National Museum of Natural history's more than 126 million natural science specimens and cultural artifacts. The ACL provides professional care for collections; reviews prospective acquisitions and loans; prepares collections for exhibit and loan; maintains objects on exhibit in the National Museum of Natural History; reviews sampling requests; advises on object care; and implements preventive conservation projects.\n\nHope diamond, dinosaur fossils, gems, and minerals.\n\nA History of Pest Control Measures in the Anthropology Collections, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution by Lisa Goldberg\n\nAt the National Postal Museum, the Preservation Office is responsible for conservation of the Museum collection.\n\nWorld’s largest stamp gallery, full-size Freight-liner semi-truck cab cutaway, vintage mail planes, stagecoach, 1931 Ford Model A postal truck, replica of a railway car; and videos.\n\nThe Mailman’s Special\n\nInformation concerning prior treatment and housing can be useful to the conservator, and records generated during subsequent treatment can be important in determining future care or treatment.\n"}
{"id": "3153742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3153742", "title": "Danny Hodge", "text": "Danny Hodge\n\nDaniel Allen Hodge (born May 13, 1932) is a retired American wrestler and boxer. He is renowned for his wrestling career, both amateur and professional. He was born and raised in Perry, Oklahoma, where he continues to live. He is famous for the ability to crush apples with one hand, a feat which he demonstrated live on ESPN during the 2006 NCAA Wrestling Championships. He said his strength was due to having double tendons in his hands.\n\nAt Perry High School in Oklahoma, Hodge won the 165-pound title at the state tournament in 1951. As a collegiate wrestler for the University of Oklahoma, Hodge was undefeated at 46-0, with 36 pins and reportedly was never taken off his feet during his collegiate career. He was a three-time Big Seven conference champ at 177 pounds (1955–1957), and won the 177-pound title at the NCAA championships those same three years, pinning all three of his finals opponents. (Hodge is only one of two three-time NCAA Division I champs to have done that, the other being Oklahoma A&M's Earl McCready in 1928–1930.) He is the only amateur wrestler to be on the cover of Sports Illustrated as an amateur wrestler. He worked as a professional wrestler for eighteen years, and was a 5-time USA Tag Team Champion, with Skandor Akbar, among others.\n\nHis reputation as a high school wrestler preceded him when he joined the US Navy in 1951. At Ames, Iowa, in April 1952, Hodge survived the US Olympic Trials, and was coached by Naval Academy Instructor Ray Swartz in the 174-pound division. At the Helsinki Olympics, Hodge was defeated by USSR's David Cimakuridze. Going into May 1956 wrestling trials for US Olympic team, Hodge was middleweight favorite. He was eliminated on May 2 by William Smith. Smith was embroiled in controversy with the Central AAU and Hodge was his substitute. After two Olympics appearances, Hodge placed 5th in 1952, and won the Silver Medal in 1956, in Melbourne, Australia after being defeated at the final by Bulgarian Nikola Stanchev.\n\nThe Dan Hodge Trophy, named after him, is the amateur wrestling equivalent of the Heisman Trophy.\n\nTrained by Leroy McGuirk and Ed \"Strangler\" Lewis, Hodge made his debut as a professional wrestler in October 1959. Hodge's first major feud was with National Wrestling Alliance Junior Heavyweight Champion Angelo Savoldi. Hodge's rivalry with Savoldi led to a bizarre event. Hodge's father entered the ring during a boxing match on May 27, 1960, between Hodge and Savoldi, and stabbed Savoldi with a penknife. Savoldi required 70 stitches at a local hospital, while Hodge's father was arrested. On July 22, 1960, Hodge defeated Savoldi for the NWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship at the Stockyards Coliseum in Oklahoma City. Hodge became McGuirk's principal headliner, and by 1962, Hodge was making upwards of $80,000 a year.\n\nHodge was a perennial NWA World Junior Heavyweight Champion, holding the title eight times for a total of over ten years, longer than anyone else. In 2007, Hodge was inducted into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame. Hodge has made appearances in WWE on \"Raw\" in 2005 and 2012 in which he honored fellow Oklahoma wrestling native Jim Ross.\n\nWWE Hall of Famer and seven-time world champion Bret Hart has referred to Hodge as \"one of the greatest wrestlers in pro wrestling or amateur wrestling there’s ever been\", and described being in the same room as Hodge at the 2008 National Wrestling Hall of Fame and Museum's award ceremony as \"a big, big honor for me\".\n\nDanny won the 1958 Chicago Golden Gloves at Heavyweight, then won a Chicago-NY Intercity bout in October, beating Charley Hood. He finished his amateur career with 17 wins, no losses and 12 KO's. Convinced by boxing manager Art Freeman that he was a better prospect than Rocky Marciano, Hodge decided to become a professional boxer rather than pursue the opportunity to compete as a boxer and a wrestler at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy. In his professional boxing debut, he scored a first-round knockout victory over Norm Jackson. As a professional, he had a reported record of 8-2, although only 7 wins have been documented. He retired on July 9, 1959.\n\nOn March 29, 2005, Hodge was honored by Oklahoma state lawmakers as an \"Oklahoma Sports Hero\". He serves as chairman of the Oklahoma Professional Boxing Commission, which regulates professional boxing, wrestling, and mixed martial arts in Oklahoma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24121593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24121593", "title": "Dead Tired", "text": "Dead Tired\n\nDead Tired () is a 1994 French comedy film directed by Michel Blanc. It was entered into the 1994 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nMichel Blanc is a great film actor. However, he's been accused of sexually abusing actresses Josiane Balasko, Charlotte Gainsbourg and Mathilda May, of behaving like a cad at Cannes and of accepting dubious publicity deals, such as appearances in supermarkets, behind the back of his agent. The evidence is there for everyone to see, but Blanc knows he is innocent. He seeks assistance from fellow actress Carole Bouquet to shed light on this matter, and he discovers that he has a perfect double, Patrick Olivier, who, having suffered all his life from his likeness to Michel Blanc, has decided to use this to his financial advantage.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 50%, based on 6 reviews, with an average rating of 6.8/10.\n"}
{"id": "19316173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19316173", "title": "Dering Roll", "text": "Dering Roll\n\nThe Dering Roll is the oldest English roll of arms surviving in its original form. It was made between 1270 and 1280 and contains the coat of arms of 324 knights, starting with two illegitimate children of King John. Sir Edward Dering acquired the roll during the 17th century and modified it to include a fictitious ancestor of his own. It was eventually purchased by the British Library (as Add Roll 77720) following fund raising involving a number of other charities and individuals.\n\nGlover's Roll, made in 1586, is a copy of a now lost roll dating from even earlier, from the reign of King Henry III (1216–1272).\n\nThe Dering Roll depicts the coats of arms of around a quarter of the English baronage during the era of Edward I. Emphasis was given to knights from Sussex and Kent, as it was produced in Dover between 1270 and 1280 and the document was designed to list the knights who owed feudal service there. It depicts 324 coats of arms, beginning with Richard Fitz Roy and William de Say, two of King John's illegitimate sons. The shields are arranged in 54 rows, with six shields on each line. Above each shield reads the knight's name, except in six cases where it has been omitted or removed. Stephen de Pencester may have commissioned the roll during his time as Constable of Dover Castle.\n\nSir Edward Dering acquired the Roll whilst lieutenant of Dover Castle, and made his modification after 1638, removing the coat of arms of Nicholas de Crioll and inserting his own coat of arms with a fictitious ancestor named Ric[hard] fi[t]z Dering in order to prove the history of his own family. This appears adjacent to the shield for Thomas de Marines (\"or a cross engrailed gules\"). \n\nThe trail of Richard fitz Dering (built upon sources dependent upon Dering's collections) leads, or was intended to lead, to the manor of Heyton in Stanford, Kent (where the connection with the family of Marinis was mentioned by Edward Hasted), and exemplified by charters like that in Thomas Willement's hands. A descent through a branch of the de Haute family of Wadenhall, Waltham, Kent was then indicated, but Sir Edward Dering's constructive approach to genealogy leaves many of the sources bedevilled by doubts of authenticity.\n\nDuring the 20th century it was acquired by Sir Anthony Wagner. On 4 December 2007, the roll was sold at auction at Sotheby's for the sum of £192,000 to a private individual who subsequently applied for an export licence. The Department for Culture, Media and Sport placed a temporary block on the roll being moved overseas and the British Library led efforts to purchase it, after the Reviewing Committee on the Export of Works of Art confirmed it to be of sufficient importance and significance. The library raised £194,184 to acquire the roll; the Head of Medieval and Earlier Manuscripts, Claire Breay said of the purchase, \"the acquisition of the Dering Roll provides an extremely rare chance to add a manuscript of enormous local and national significance.\" They were assisted in funding the purchase from The Art Fund (£40,000), the National Heritage Memorial Fund (£100,000), Friends of the British Library (£10,000), Friends of the National Libraries (£10,000), and a number of individual benefactors. It is now on display at the Sir John Ritblat Gallery in the British Library, and available to researchers in the library's manuscripts reading room.\n\n"}
{"id": "19365553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19365553", "title": "Ephemeral Museum", "text": "Ephemeral Museum\n\nThe Ephemeral Museum is the first ephemeral art museum in the world.\n\nIt is located in \"Bairro Alto\", in the heart of Portugal’s capital, Lisbon. This museum is sponsored by Pampero Fundación and it is part of the Pampero Rum campaign, developed by Leo Burnett Lisboa advertising agency.\n\nThe first Ephemeral Museum of the world, created by Leo Burnett for the Pampero Fundación, expands its frontiers. After its inauguration in Bairro Alto, new spots have “opened its doors” in São Bento and Amoreiras, where new and classic talents unite to promote the best of national and international street art. It can be seen after January 29.\n\nIn July 2008, Leo Burnett transformed the streets of Bairro Alto – Lisbon’s bohemian quarter - into a true outdoor museum. The concept fit in perfectly with the Lisbon streets, known for being the stage for the graffiti cult and other forms of street art. In these very streets, the Ephemeral Museum is born.\n\nThe Museum’s success was immediate. Soon, and keeping up the same concept, São Bento and Amoreiras were elected as the new sites for the Museum’s expansion as a dynamic space in constant growth, with the endless ambition of becoming the world’s largest street gallery. \n\nThe idea jump-started when Leo Burnett set up a marketing plan for Pampero’s rum, creating a place where everyday street artists could be acknowledged. For this vision to become reality, careful analysis of street art manifestations had to take place (graffiti, stencils, stickers) in order to separate true art from vandalism. We identify and catalogue the works (author and title). \nMost importantly, it makes sense to state that this project is in no means an incentive for graffiti creation and acts of vandalism (which are normally associated to street art), but as a project that aims to draw attention to the need of a space that voices out and exhibits this style of art as an independent form of manifestation from vandalism, similar to the example in the Tate Modern Museum, in London.\n\nIn the new sites located in São Bento and Amoreiras, it is possible to contemplate the work of various generations of artists from all over the world. The galleries renown such artists like Exas, Creyz, Rote, Eko and Mito, Time, Pariz, Youth, From the Cave, Mace, as well as the international Kenor. Bairro Alto exhibits the works of international artists Dolk and Jef Aerosol, as well as national artists in the making such as Efeito Magenta and O Colectivo Bitmap.\n"}
{"id": "18405908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18405908", "title": "European Pressphoto Agency", "text": "European Pressphoto Agency\n\nEuropean Pressphoto Agency B.V. (epa) is an international news photo agency.\n\nImages from all parts of the world covering news, politics, sports, business, finance as well as arts, culture and entertainment are provided by a global network of over 400 professional photographers and included in the epa news photo service. The epa picture service is based both on the broad network of epa's staff photographers all over the world and on the daily production of its member agencies, which are all market leaders in their respective countries. All photos are edited and distributed to clients and partners worldwide by the editorial headquarters in Frankfurt am Main, Germany, which is staffed 24 hours daily.\n\nepa built up a reputation for reliable, independent and unique photo coverage.\n\nThe international picture service of epa is used by diverse media as well as epa's partners and shareholders worldwide. At present epa’s editorial service offers approximately 2,000 new images on an average day.\n\nThe service includes photographs in the areas of news, sports, arts, culture and entertainment, economy, human interest, and science.\n\nThe epa photo archive dates back to 1997 and has over six million images on stock, the majority of which can be accessed online.\n\nepa was founded in 1985 by seven European news agencies. The agencies, AFP of France, ANP of the Netherlands, ANOP (now Lusa) of Portugal, ANSA of Italy, Belga of Belgium, dpa of Germany and EFE of Spain were motivated by what they saw as a lack of alternatives to the Anglo-Saxon picture services offered at the time.\n\nOriginally conceived as a vehicle to exchange the pictures of the member agencies’ domestic service; it also included the world service of AFP and other European services and suppliers. It expanded to a more independent entity as Eastern Europe opened up. The opening of these new markets, along with the war in the former Yugoslavia, led epa to employ its own photographers in those regions. Despite these developments, epa remained under the auspices of their member/owners whom it exclusively served.\n\nBy 1995 epa had ten members with the additions of Keystone later in 1985, APA of Austria in 1986, and Lehtikuva of Finland in 1987. Pressensbild of Sweden joined in 1997 followed by Scanfoto (later Scanpix Norway) of Norway and Nordfoto (later Scanpix Denmark) of Denmark in 1999. pap of Poland joined epa in 2001.\n\nIn early 2003 after extensive restructuring and the departure of AFP, epa successfully made its service available to the worldwide market. Later in 2003 Lehtikuva, Scanpix Denmark/Norway and Pressensbild (later Scanpix Sweden) decided not to continue as a shareholder of epa. However, Scanpix Norway, Sweden and Denmark continued cooperation with epa under the name of Scanpix Scandinavia.\n\nANA of Greece (now ANA-MPA) joined epa as a shareholder in 2004 followed by mti of Hungary in 2005.\n\nToday epa has nine shareholders, all being market leaders in their respective countries:\n\n\nLucas Dolega, an epa photojournalist, was the first journalist to have been killed during the 2010-2011 Tunisian protests and the first journalist to have died during the Arab Spring uprisings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26964245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26964245", "title": "Finday", "text": "Finday\n\nFinday is a social web directory and search engine based on Google's technology. It provides users a website ranking system that isn't based on statistics but on human criteria (\"see below:\" FindayScore), and a directory of websites commented and evaluated on by users.\n\nThe website also includes a large amount of important data concerning each site: who owns it, where it's located, what language it's available in, web traffic figures or its popularity within the ranks of the largest Internet communities among others.\n\nFinday users can rate with a score from 0 to 10 the most relevant aspects of the sites listed in the search listings. There are different parameters users can use to rate a site based on its content. The current score for each site is listed to the right of its description, this is called \"FindayScore\".\n\nThe FindayScore of a website represents the value attributed to it by Finday users. It isn't a simple average based on all the scores the website has received, but a weighted average. This means it's modified by other factors such as its popularity on Finday, loading speed, its traffic according to Alexa, etc. In other words, the FindayScore mainly considers reviews submitted by users on the most important aspects of a website, but it's automatically modified by other parameters that contribute to improving the validity of the review.\n\nIn addition to the main URL finday.com, Finday owns es.finday.com for its localized contents in Spanish.\n\nFinday is headquartered in Barcelona, Spain, and it's funded by Grupo Intercom.\n\n"}
{"id": "4902725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4902725", "title": "Flora of North America", "text": "Flora of North America\n\nThe Flora of North America North of Mexico (usually referred to as FNA) is a multivolume work describing the native plants of North America. Much of the Flora is already available online. It is expected to fill 30 volumes when completed and will be the first work to treat all of the known flora north of Mexico.\n\nIt is a collaboration of over 800 authors, who collaborate over the web.\n"}
{"id": "28084571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28084571", "title": "Frozen Ark", "text": "Frozen Ark\n\nThe Frozen Ark is a charitable frozen zoo project created jointly by the Zoological Society of London, the Natural History Museum and University of Nottingham. The project aims to preserve the DNA and living cells of endangered species to retain the genetic knowledge for the future. The Frozen Ark collects and stores samples taken from animals in zoos and those threatened with extinction in the wild, with the expectation that, some day, cloning technologies will have matured sufficiently to resurrect extinct species. The Frozen Ark was a finalist for the Saatchi & Saatchi Award for World Changing Ideas in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "40845033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40845033", "title": "Govender v Ragavayah", "text": "Govender v Ragavayah\n\nIn Govender v Ragavayah, an important case in the South African law of succession, the applicant was a woman married in terms of Hindu rites, whose husband had died intestate. Accordingly, the parents of her husband stood to inherit his estate. The court noted that Hindu marriages were not recognised in South African law, which violated section 9 of the Constitution. Accordingly, the court ordered that the definition of “spouse” in section 1 of the Intestate Succession Act include the surviving spouse of a monogamous Hindu marriage. It is important to note that the ambit of this judgment was restricted to \"de facto\" monogamous Hindu marriages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43400482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43400482", "title": "Guantanamo Bay Museum of Art and History", "text": "Guantanamo Bay Museum of Art and History\n\nThe Guantanamo Bay Museum of Art and History is a fictional museum created by the American artist Ian Alan Paul. The museum exists virtually as a website and is also installed in real-world galleries in a series of satellite exhibitions. The museum claims to be based in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba at the site of the former Guantanamo Bay Detention Camp which according to the museum's history has been closed since 2012 when the museum was built to replace it.\n\nThe museum hosts artists works in its collection which reflect on and critique the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility, contains a center for critical studies which collects texts about Guantanamo Bay including essays from Judith Butler and Derek Gregory, and runs an artist in residency program that produces new works for exhibitions. The museum is also listed as a real place on Google Maps just north of the detention facility.\n\nWhen the fictional museum was first made public it was covered by a variety of international publications including by the Agence France-Presse, Studio Magazine, and the Atlantic. The Atlantic described the museum in this way after its opening:\n\nAfter the project's launch, Ian Alan Paul has given lectures and talks at universities, museums, and conferences as the head curator and creator of the museum, and the artworks from the museum are shown in galleries as an extension and elaboration of the project's fiction.\n"}
{"id": "1518377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1518377", "title": "Harley Race", "text": "Harley Race\n\nHarley Leland Race (born April 11, 1943) is an American former professional wrestler and current promoter and trainer.\n\nDuring his career as a wrestler, Race worked for all of the major wrestling promotions, including the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), the American Wrestling Association (AWA), the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE), and World Championship Wrestling (WCW). He has held the WWA World Heavyweight Championship once and the NWA World Heavyweight Championship seven times and was the first NWA United States Heavyweight Champion, which is now known as the WWE's United States Championship.\n\nRace is one of six men inducted into each of the WWE Hall of Fame, the NWA Hall of Fame, the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame and the Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame, and is considered by many wrestlers, promoters and fans as one of the best/if not the best professional wrestler of all time. He is highly respected for his toughness and lifelong dedication to the business.\n\nRace was an early fan of professional wrestling, watching programming from the nearby Chicago territory on the DuMont Network. After overcoming polio as a child, he began training as a professional wrestler as a teen under former world champions Stanislaus and Wladek Zbyszko, who operated a farm in his native Missouri. While in high school, an altercation with another classmate led to the principal kneeing Race in the back of the head as he tried to break up the fight. Enraged, Race attacked him, resulting in his expulsion. Already and , Race decided to get his start in professional wrestling. Race then became the driver of Happy Humphrey who was too large to drive at the time.\n\nRace was recruited by St. Joseph wrestling promoter Gust Karras who hired Race to do odd jobs for his promotion, including chauffeuring the wrestler Happy Humphrey. Eventually, Race started wrestling on some of his shows and some of Karras' veteran wrestlers helped further Race's training. At the age of 18, he moved to Nashville and began wrestling under the ring name of Jack Long, forming a tag team with storyline brother John Long. The duo quickly captured the Southern Tag Team Championship. Race was seen as a rising star in the business with a bright future until a car accident put him out of action, with his leg coming close to being amputated. His pregnant first wife, Vivian Louise Jones, died instantly; they had been married just over a month. Karras heard about his employee's condition, went rushing into the hospital, and blocked the planned amputation, declaring it \"over my dead body.\" In doing so, he saved Race's leg. Although he recovered, doctors told Race that he might never walk again, and his wrestling career was over. Undaunted, Race endured grueling physical therapy for several months and made a full recovery. Race next went on to face Jack Pfefer and Tony Santos in the Boston territory as the Great Mortimer in 1963.\n\nHe returned to the ring in 1964, wrestling for the Funks' Amarillo, Texas, territory. This time, he wrestled as Harley Race, after his father told him that he should not work to make anyone else's name famous. Race never again used a different ring name. In Amarillo, Race met fellow up-and-coming wrestler Larry Hennig (later Larry \"The Axe\" Hennig and father of \"Mr. Perfect\" Curt Hennig). The two formed a tag team and moved to the American Wrestling Association (AWA).\n\nIn the AWA, Race and Hennig branded themselves as \"Handsome\" Harley Race (which was actually a moniker given to him by fans in Japan) and \"Pretty Boy\" Larry Hennig, portraying a cocky heel (villain) tag team with a penchant for breaking the rules to win matches. They quickly became top contenders, and in January 1965, they were scripted Dick the Bruiser and The Crusher and granted the AWA World Tag Team Championship. Race and Hennig were designated to feud with the Bruiser and Crusher and other top teams for the next several years, and were given three title reigns. Verne Gagne, in particular, was promoted as a hated rival of the team, and was assigned many different partners to wrestle against Race and Hennig during their AWA run. In October 1967, Gagne was credited with \"breaking\" one of Hennig's legs, thus giving him some much needed time off from the ring. Race (as the storyline went), was allowed to choose a new partner and retain the AWA World Tag Team Championship. Harley's choice was Chris Markoff, but the duo was relieved of the championship for their first title defense match against the team of Pat O'Connor and Wilbur Snyder in November 1967. For the next several months, Race teamed with Hard Boiled Haggerty (Don Stansauk) who over the years presented Verne Gagne with some of his greatest matches. Together, Race and Haggerty often were cast against Gagne and \"Cowboy\" Bill Watts. In March 1968, after Hennig's return to the ring, he and Harley were back together, though the two never were reassigned the AWA World Tag Team Championship. Despite his tag team success, Race left the AWA after several years at the top of the division to pursue a singles' career in the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA).\n\nRace returned to the AWA in 1984 to wrestle Curt Hennig. The confrontation was fueled by Larry Hennig confronting his former tag team partner at the end of the match. Race would also wrestle former AWA World Heavyweight Champion Rick Martel as part of WrestleRock in April 1986. Toward the end of his in-ring career, he would return to the AWA, most notably cast against Larry Zbyszko for the AWA World Heavyweight Championship match in 1990, which was featured as the main event of an AWA broadcast on ESPN. However, all of these matches from 1990 ended up as just special appearances and Race ultimately did not sign with the promotion.\n\nRace jumped from territory to territory in the early 1970s, renewing his rivalry with Terry Funk in Amarillo, Texas and winning a regional title. He was seen as a gifted territorial wrestler, not quite ready for the worldwide spotlight, until 1973. In Kansas City, he did very well teaming with Roger \"Nature Boy\" Kirby. As a singles wrestler, he held the NWA Missouri Heavyweight Championship as well as the Mid-Atlantic version of the NWA United States Heavyweight Championship. He also started what would be many tours to Japan where he faced Giant Baba.\n\nIn 1973, Race took the nickname \"Mad Dog\" and faced NWA World Heavyweight Champion Dory Funk, Jr. in Kansas City. Race emerged from the battle as the new world champion in what was perceived by fans as a stunning upset. Behind the scenes, Funk had pulled out of losing the title to Jack Brisco, citing injuries in a truck accident; in truth, Amarillo promoter Dory Funk Sr. did not want his son losing the title to a fellow babyface (a fan favorite). Race, a known tough street fighter, was under orders from the NWA not to let Funk leave the ring as champion that night. The ending was a \"work\" with Funk dropping the title in a third fall as planned and TV announcer Bill Kersten dropping the \"Mad Dog\" nickname during the match.\n\nA televised title defense from this first reign, held in Calgary against Klondike Bill and aired as the main event on an episode of the promotion's eponymous \"Stampede Wrestling\" program (where Race successfully defended his title), resurfaced during the 21st century as part of the WWE Video Library. Most of his televised matches of this era were squash matches held in television studios. Though Race held the title for only a few months, losing it to Brisco in Houston, Texas in July, he became a worldwide superstar and perennial championship contender.\n\nRace was determined to eventually regain the NWA World Heavyweight Championship, often moving between territories and collecting several regional titles, including eight Central States Heavyweight Championship, seven Missouri Heavyweight Championship, the Georgia Heavyweight Championship, the Stampede North American Heavyweight Championship in Canada, the Japan-based NWA United National Heavyweight and PWF World Heavyweight Championships, and becoming the first-ever holder of the Mid-Atlantic United States Heavyweight Championship, still defended today as the WWE United States Championship. This kept Race in contention for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship, and Race vowed that he would only need one chance against the champion to regain it.\n\nRace finally got his wish in 1977, facing familiar rival Terry Funk, who had become the champion since their previous encounters, in Toronto. Race won the title by submission with the Indian Death Lock, a rarely used submission move but one that put great pressure on Funk's injured leg. The NWA World Heavyweight Champion once again, Race this time established his dominance, defending the title up to six times a week and holding it for almost five years (excluding extremely short reigns by Tommy Rich, Dusty Rhodes, and Giant Baba). Race feuded with many of the legends of the NWA including Dory Funk, Dusty Rhodes, Dick the Bruiser, Pat Patterson and Angelo Poffo. In 1978, he had a series of violent matches throughout the Midwest with the Sheik, culminating in a bloody \"2x4 with a nail in it\" match in front of 12,313 at Cobo Hall. The NWA, AWA and WWF were on good terms, and Race engaged in title versus title matches with WWF Heavyweight Champions Superstar Billy Graham and Bob Backlund, as well as AWA World Heavyweight Champion Nick Bockwinkel. Race toured extensively all over the country and the world, including Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and many stints in Japan, where he was already well known from his visits with Larry Hennig. On October 13, 1978, Harley Race body slammed André the Giant.\nRace, after countless victories over many years over Rhodes and other great wrestlers, lost the title to Dusty Rhodes in 1981. Rhodes lost the title to up-and-coming star Ric Flair, though Race was able to defeat Flair in St. Louis in 1983 for his seventh reign as champion, breaking the record previously held by Lou Thesz. What followed was one of the classic angles of the 1980s, which led to the first-ever NWA's Starrcade event. Determined not to lose the title again, Race offered a $25,000 bounty to anyone who could eliminate Flair from the NWA. Bob Orton, Jr. and Dick Slater attacked Flair, inflicting what appeared to be a career-ending neck injury, and collecting the bounty from Race after Flair announced his retirement. Flair's retirement was a ruse, however, and he eventually returned to action, much to Race's surprise. NWA officials set up a championship rematch, to be titled \"Starrcade: A Flare for the Gold\". The match was to be held in Flair's backyard, Greensboro, North Carolina, which enraged Race. Race lost the title to Flair in the bloody and memorable Starcade steel cage match (with Gene Kiniski as the special referee.) Flair jumped on top of Race from top rope and pinned him to become champion.\n\nHe would regain the NWA World Heavyweight Championship for a short two-day reign in New Zealand in 1984, after many years,it is now a recognized title change.., but his loss to Flair at Starrcade was largely seen as the torch-passing from Race to Flair. Flair would go on and he credits Race for igniting his career. Later, Race left NWA because NWA President Sam Mushnick was \"losing his capabilities\".\n\nIn May 1986, Race entered the WWF managed by longtime friend Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan, bleaching his hair blond and billing himself again as \"Handsome\" Harley Race. During a time when the WWF did not recognize the existence of other promotions and the accomplishments a wrestler made there, WWF officials came up with a solution to recognize his wrestling pedigree by having him win the King of the Ring tournament. After this, he referred to himself as \"King\" Harley Race, coming to the ring in a royal crown and cape, to the ceremonial accompaniment of the tenth movement (known as \"The Great Gates of Kiev\") of \"Pictures at an Exhibition\" by Modest Mussorgsky. After winning a match, Harley would make his defeated opponent \"bow and kneel\" before him. Usually Bobby Heenan would assist the defeated opponent to \"bow and kneel\" by grabbing their hair and forcing them to bow before King Harley Race.\n\nHe participated in a notable feud with the Junkyard Dog, culminating in a match at WrestleMania III at the Pontiac Silverdome, in which Race cleanly pinned The Junkyard Dog after a textbook Belly-to-belly suplex. As per the stipulations of the match, the JYD was required to bow to Race as the winner, but after he bowed and Race got up, JYD grabbed the chair he was sitting on and attacked Race before leaving with The King's cape to a standing ovation. Race would spend 1987 feuding with Hulk Hogan and Jim Duggan, who during a televised confrontation took Race's crown and robe, though Race later attacked Duggan, and then took them back. The latter of his feud with Duggan was highlighted by an extended brawl at the 1987 Slammy Awards. In early 1988, he suffered an abdominal injury in a match against Hogan in which he tried to hit Hogan, prone on a table at ringside, with a swandive headbutt. Hogan moved out of the way and Race impacted the table inwards. The metal edge forced its way up into Race's abdomen giving him a hernia. Following this incident and during his recovery, the WWF ran an angle where they acknowledged his injury, and his manager Bobby Heenan vowed to crown a new king. He left the WWF in early 1989, following a brief comeback from hernia surgery and an attempt to regain his crown from the new King, Haku, at the Royal Rumble.\n\nAfter leaving the WWF, Harley continued to wrestle until the spring of 1991, most notably with World Wrestling Council (WWC) in Puerto Rico, Stampede Wrestling in Calgary, Alberta the NWA, and the AWA. During this period, Race would received one last shot at a recognized world title when he faced AWA champion Larry Zbyszko at the final AWA television taping in August 1990. The match ended in a double countout.\n\nRace made his return to the promotion at The Great American Bash on July 7, 1990 when he defeated former NWA World Heavweight Champion Tommy Rich. He began making appearances on house shows and immediately would fill in for Ric Flair in several tag team matches, pairing up with Barry Windham against Lex Luger and Sting. Race would continue a program with Tommy Rich through the rest of the summer, as well as facing Brian Pillman and Wendell Cooley. In September, he received several United States Heavyweight Championship title shots against then champion Lex Luger. In October, Race renewed his rivalry with The Junkyard Dog in two matches on the WCW house show circuit and finished the year facing Michael Wallstreet. During a house show match in St. Joseph, Missouri on December 7, 1990, he sustained a shoulder injury and would ultimately retire from active competition.\n\nRace made his first subsequent appearance six months later as a guest referee during a house show on June 14, 1991 in St. Louis, Missouri. One year after making his initial return on The Great American Bash in 1990, Race returned at the 1991 The Great American Bash to become the adviser/manager to Lex Luger. Excelling as a manager as he had as a wrestler, he immediately lead Luger to the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. He managed Luger throughout his title run, as well as acquiring the contract for Mr. Hughes from Alexandra York.\n\nIn 1992, Race began to add other wrestlers to a stable that would include Big Van Vader, Super Invader and Vinnie Vegas (Kevin Nash). The stable was short-lived, and after Vader defeated Sting for the world championship on July 12, 1992 he became Race's primary charge. During his management of Vader, Race met with racial controversy when Vader was feuding with WCW wrestler Ron Simmons when saying during a promo, \"When I was world champion, I had a boy like you to carry my bags!\". This was actually part of the booking strategy of then-WCW head Bill Watts to build support for Simmons, whom he would eventually make champion. The wily veteran was popular among the young WCW talent, and developed close friendships with Mick Foley and Steve Austin, among others. On June 9, 1993 at a TV taping in Lake Charles, Louisiana, he began managing The Colossal Kongs, and on July 7 at \"WorldWide tapings in Orlando, Florida, Yoshi Kwan joined his stable.\n\nHarley Race returned to the ring a final time on a trio of Florida house shows (November 26, 1993 in Davie, November 27 in Orlando, and November 28 in Jacksonville), when he substituted for an injured Vader to face Ric Flair. His former rival would come out victorious on each occasion. These would be the last wrestling matches of his career. \n\nAfter losing the title at Starrcade in December 1993, Big Van Vader quickly became Race's sole stable member again. Race continued to manage Vader in the following months in rematches against Flair, and on May 22, 1994 he was inducted into the WCW Hall of Fame during the Slamboree 94 PPV. He continued to appear at Vader's side through the rest of the year.\n\nAs his early wrestling career had been nearly derailed due to a car accident, another car accident in January 1995 forced Race out of the wrestling business altogether. Race required hip replacement surgery, which, along with injuries accumulated after years in the ring, prevented him from even being a manager. He would make a few independent appearances against another Nature Boy, Ric Flair but his inability to work was just too great. He would make one last return to WCW television in October 1999 as the ring announcer for the Bret Hart vs. Chris Benoit tribute to Owen Hart match in his hometown of Kansas City.\n\nRace returned to WWE television in 2004 shortly after being inducted into their Hall of Fame. On an episode of \"Raw\", Randy Orton confronted Race and spat in his face, to go with Orton's \"Legend Killer\" persona. Race returned again for \"Raw\"s \"WWE Homecoming\" episode in October 2005, marking the show's return to the USA Network. Race, along with the other legends who were in the ring, gave Rob Conway a lesson in respect.\n\nIn 2004, Harley Race was recruited to be a part of Total Nonstop Action Wrestling as a member of their NWA Championship Committee. Despite reportedly being an authority figure as a member of the committee, he never made any official decisions and only made the occasional on-screen appearance for the company. In 2006 he appeared at a Scott D`Amore card in Hamilton, Ontario.\n\nAt the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2007 ceremony on March 31, 2007, Race and Dusty Rhodes were \"inducted\" into the Four Horsemen by Ric Flair and Arn Anderson. On the August 8, 2008 episode of \"Monday Night Raw\", Race sat in the front row and was acknowledged by commentators Michael Cole and Jerry \"The King\" Lawler. Before the show, Race accompanied then-GHC Heavyweight Champion Takeshi Morishima to the ring for a dark match against Charlie Haas.\n\nRace also made an appearance at Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's Lockdown pay-per-view in 2007 as the special guest gatekeeper for the main event. Race made a special guest appearance at the second night of Ring of Honor's Glory by Honor VI: Night Two at the Manhattan Center on November 3, 2007 in New York City.\n\nOn January 4, 2014, Race took part in New Japan Pro Wrestling's Wrestle Kingdom 8 in Tokyo Dome event, taking part in the title presentation before a match for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship and punching out defending champion Rob Conway's manager Bruce Tharpe.\n\nEarlier in his career, Race became involved in the ownership side of wrestling, buying a portion of the Kansas City and later St. Louis territories known as Heart of America Sports Attractions. St. Louis was a stronghold of the NWA, and around this time in 1984, WWF owner Vincent K. McMahon began his invasion of NWA territories, including St. Louis, in his ambition to build a truly national wrestling promotion. Race was enraged, famously confronting Hulk Hogan and the Funk brothers at a WWF event in Kansas City. Race lost over $500,000 as an owner of the Kansas City territory, and despite his championship years being at an end and wishing to retire from active competition, was forced to rely on continuing to wrestle to make a living. He continued to travel in the United States and abroad, and signed with McMahon's WWF in 1986.\n\nRace spent several years away from the business, working briefly as a process server before retiring with his wife in small-town Missouri. In 1999, he started World League Wrestling (originally called World Legion Wrestling, but the name was changed a year later), an independent promotion which runs shows near Race's hometown of Eldon, Missouri and other cities in Missouri including Kansas City. A year later, he started Harley Race's Wrestling Academy, which seeks to train up-and-coming wrestlers who could benefit from Race's unique experience and perspective on the wrestling business. Race's events are family-oriented, and usually raise funds for local charities. As well as featuring his students, legends like Mick Foley, Terry Funk, Bret Hart, and even Mitsuharu Misawa make guest appearances. WLW had a working agreement with Misawa's Japanese promotion, Pro Wrestling NOAH and had NOAH star Takeshi Morishima as a former heavyweight champion. He is credited with training Trevor Murdoch who was then known as Trevor Rhodes, and NOAH veterans Superstar Steve, Wild Wade Chism, Matt Murphy and Daniel Cross.\n\nIn 2014, Race and World League Wrestling relocated to Troy, MO. Along with relocating his wrestling academy and promotion, Race also built the Race Wrestling Arena - where events are put on once a month.\n\nRace was born to sharecroppers George and Mary Race in 1943. He married three times. Race married his first wife, Vivian Jones, in 1960. She died five weeks after their wedding in the same car crash in which Race nearly lost a leg. His second wife, whom Race refused to mention by name in his 2004 book \"King of the Ring\", divorced him after a few years of marriage in 1990. Together they had a son, Justin Race, who was an amateur wrestler but never a professional. His third wife Beverley, also known as B.J. was vice president of the Commerce Bank of Kansas City when they married in late 1995 after Race's career-ending car crash earlier that year. She often traveled with Race until she died of pneumonia. Race has five grandchildren.\n\nRace continued running World League Wrestling (WLW) and his wrestling camp in Eldon, Missouri. He later moved the businesses to nearby Troy. Many of his trainees were sent to the NOAH promotion in Japan for extra seasoning. Over the years he needed surgery to his neck, hip replacements, knee replacements and had five vertebra in his back fused together due to the years of taking hard bumps. In May 2017 he broke both legs in a fall at his home, one in several places. He needed four blood transfusions during surgery. As of December 2017, Harley is still promoting WLW as he continues his rehab.\n\nRace participated in the 1999 NBC special, \"Exposed! Pro Wrestling's Greatest Secrets\". His face was covered to conceal his identity as he broke kayfabe and discussed the inner workings of the business. Harley's autobiography, \"King of the Ring: the Harley Race Story\" (), was released on November 19, 2004. Along with Ricky Steamboat and Les Thatcher, Race is author of \"The Professional Wrestler's Workout and Instructional Guide\".\n\nRace played himself as the distinguished ring announcer for a tag team match involving Mil Mascaras and El Hijo del Santo in the 2007 film \"Mil Mascaras vs. the Aztec Mummy\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3474056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3474056", "title": "Hausa Folk-lore", "text": "Hausa Folk-lore\n\nHausa Folk-lore is a book by Maalam Shaihua, translated by R. Sutherland Rattray, published in 1913. It contains twenty-one folk-stories of the Hausa people of Africa. The book is notable in that it was actually written by one of the Hausa, not a European, as is common in such books from the time period.\n\n"}
{"id": "28023589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28023589", "title": "Hereward Lester Cooke", "text": "Hereward Lester Cooke\n\nHereward Lester Cooke (1916–1973) was an American painter.\n\nCooke was born in Princeton, New Jersey in 1916. He studied at Oxford University, the Art Students League (under George Bridgman), the Yale University School of Fine Art, and Princeton University Graduate School, where he received his Ph.D.\n\nCooke is known more for his work in art history than for his painting, having written several texts, especially \"Painting Lessons from the Great Masters\" in 1967. He was the Curator of Painting at the National Gallery of Art from 1961–1973, and before that a National Gallery Aide and its acting assistant director, beginning in 1956. Part of his duties as curator included heading the Expert Opinions Section of the National Gallery, where owners of artworks could come and have their art appraised or otherwise identified. He was a well-known authority on fakes and forgeries and was called the \"Sherlock Holmes of the Art World\" for his work in solving art mysteries of attribution. As a curator, Cooke was also very influential in the government-sponsored art programs, helping to select artists for the Environmental Protection Agency art program and serving as art advisor to NASA for ten years. He organized the National Gallery Exhibit of NASA art in 1969.\n\nCooke's successes may have been more visible in art history, but he was also well regarded as an artist. Not only was he appointed director of the American pavilion at the Venice Biannual International Art Exhibition, he was also named artist-in-residence at Princeton for four years and later won the Prix de Rome and a Fulbright Fellowship. In 1940 he won the American Beaux Arts prize for murals. Cooke died in 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "19685901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19685901", "title": "HotJava Views", "text": "HotJava Views\n\nHotJava Views was a productivity software suite developed by Sun Microsystems and implemented in Java. It was released in 1996 and was intended primarily for JavaStation or other JavaOS-based network computers.\n\nHotJava Views consisted of four applications:\n\n\nThe graphical user interface of HotJava Views was quite novel in that it dispensed with some of the common features of GUIs in order to simplify the interface. Menu bars and overlapping, resizable windows were eliminated and a simple \"Selector\" icon bar was used to switch between applications. Other third-party Java applications could be added to the Selector.\n\n"}
{"id": "30807231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30807231", "title": "Kamiumi", "text": "Kamiumi\n\nIn Japanese mythology, the story of the occurs after the creation of Japan (\"Kuniumi\") and refers to the birth of the \"kami\", descendants of Izanagi and Izanami.\n\nAccording to the Kojiki, various gods were born from the relationship between Izanagi and Izanami until the fire deity, Kagutsuchi, at birth burned Izanami's genitals and wounded her fatally. Izanagi, witnessing the death of his beloved wife, in rage took the ten-grasp sabre and crushed his child, Kagutsuchi. A number of gods were born from the blood and remains of Kagutsuchi. Subsequently, Izanagi went to the land of Yomi (the world of the dead) to find Izanami, however when he found her, she had become a rotting corpse and from her parts other gods had arisen, causing the flight of Izanagi to the world of the living. Then Izanagi performed the misogi ritual purification through which more gods are born. The last of these are the three most important gods of Shinto: Amaterasu, goddess of the sun; Tsukuyomi, deity of the moon; and Susanoo, god of the sea.\n\nAfter having created the Eight Large Islands (\"Ōyashima\") and other islands during the creation of Japan, Izanagi and Izanami decided to give birth to other gods, among them household deities, deities of the wind, trees and meadows, all born spontaneously:\nDuring Kagutsuchi's birth, Izanami's genitals were burned and she was mortally wounded. In her agony, from her vomit, urine and feces more gods were born.\n\nAfter the agony, Izanami dies. At the time Izanagi crept moaning about the body and mourned her death. From his tears was born. Subsequently Izanagi buried Izanami on Mount Hiba. His sadness turned into anger and he decided to kill Kagutsuchi with a ten-grasp sword called .\n\nFrom the blood of Kagutsuchi the following gods emerged:\n\nAlso, from the body of Kagutsuchi the following gods were born:\n\nIzanagi then decided to bring back Izanami and goes to Yomi-no-kuni, the underworld. Crossing the gates to that world, he met Izanami and says to her:\n\nIzanami replied:\n\nOn saying this, Izanami entered the palace of these gods. However, time passed and she did not return and Izanagi began to despair. So he broke one of the tines of his ornamental comb mizura that he wore in the left bun of his hair, lit it in order to light the place and decided to enter the world of dead. He manages to find Izanami but is surprised to see that she lost her beauty and had become a rotting corpse, covered with maggots. Of her body were born the eight Gods of thunder, which were:\n\n\nIzanagi, shocked, decided to return home, but Izanami was embarrassed by his appearance and commanded the to chase Izanagi. In his flight, he took the head-dress from his head, and threw it to the ground where it turned into a bunch of grapes. The Yomotsushikome started to eat them but kept chasing the fleeing Izanagi. So he broke the tine of the comb that he wore in his right bun, and as he threw it to the ground it became bamboo shoots, prompting the Yomotsushikome to eat them and enabling Izanagi to flee.\n\nHowever, Izanami decided to release the eight gods of thunder and 1,500 warriors from Yomi to continue the pursuit. Izanagi drew and brandished his Totsuka-no-Tsurugi sword to continue his flight. As they pursued him, Izanagi reached the , the slope that descends from the land of the living to Yomi. He took three peaches from a tree that had grown in that place and threw them at his pursuers so that they fled.\n\nIzanagi commented:\n\nThese peaches were called .\n\nFinally, Izanami persecuted Izanagi, but he lifted a rock that a thousand men could not move and blocked the slope with it. At that moment, their eyes met for the last time.\n\nIzanami said:\n\nIzanagi replied:\n\nThese words justified the circle of life and death in humans. For the same reason, Izanami is also called or and the boulder that covers the entrance to the world of the dead is known as or and is today known as in Izumo, Shimane Prefecture.\n\nLeaving Yomi, Izanagi decided to remove all uncleanness in his body through a purification ceremony (\"misogi\") consisting of a bath in the river at Ahakihara in Tachibana no Ono in Tsukushi. As he stripped his clothes and accessories on the floor the following twelve gods are born:\n\n\nSubsequently Izanagi is stripped of impurities from the land of Yomi. In this moment two gods were born:\n\nThen, shaking off the curse, three gods were born:\n\nThen, when washing with water the lower parts of his body, two gods were born;\n\nWhen washing the middle of his body, two more gods were born:\n\nFinally, washing the upper part of his body, two more gods were born:\n\nThe trio of Sokotsuwatatsumi, Nakatsuwatatsumi and Uhatsuwatatsumi make up the group of deities called Sanjin Watatsumi, or the gods of water. The trio of Sokotsutsunoo, Nakatsutsunoo and Uhatsutsunoo make up the Sumiyoshi Sanjin group of deities, gods of fishing and sea, to whom tribute is paid at Sumiyoshi Taisha.\n\nIn the last step of the purification ceremony, Izanagi washed his left eye from which\n\nWith these three gods called , Izanagi ordered their investiture. Amaterasu received the mandate to govern Takamagahara and a necklace of jewels called from Izanagi. Tsukuyomi is mandated to govern over the Dominion of the Night, and Takehayasusanoo is to rule the seas.\n\n"}
{"id": "906505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=906505", "title": "Kua Fu", "text": "Kua Fu\n\nKua Fu () is a giant in Chinese mythology who wished to capture the Sun. He was a grandson of Houtu.\n\nOne day, Kua Fu decided to chase and catch the Sun. He followed the Sun from the East to the West, draining the Yellow River and the Wei River (all rivers and lakes crossing his path) to quench his burning thirst. As he searched for more water, he died of dehydration. The wooden club he was carrying grew into a vast forest of peach trees called Deng Forest (邓林).\n\nIn one version, Kua Fu turns into a mountain range.\n\nIn modern Chinese usage, the story of Kua Fu chasing the Sun (夸父追日) is used to describe a person who fails to obtain his goal because he greatly overestimates himself.\n\n\"Kua Fu\" can also be taken to refer to his people, the Kuafu-shi (s 夸父氏) or \"Clan of Kuafu\". Since shi can mean both \"clan\" and \"maiden name\" and serve as a masculine honorific like \"mister\" or \"sir\", it is sometimes used in reference to his people, sometimes in reference to the individual.\n\nDuring the battle of Banquan, Chi You's tribes allied themselves with the Kua Fu tribe and the \"Sanmiao\" (三苗) tribe and attacked the Yan Emperor's tribe, driving them into the lands of the Yellow Emperor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3395123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3395123", "title": "London Consortium", "text": "London Consortium\n\nFrom 1993 to 2012, The London Consortium was a graduate school in the UK offering multidisciplinary Masters and Doctoral programs in the humanities and cultural studies at the University of London. It was administered by Birkbeck, University of London, one of the constituent colleges of the University of London, and fell under the Humanities list of courses at Birkbeck.\n\nThe London Consortium was a collaborative program composed of Birkbeck, the Architectural Association, Institute of Contemporary Arts, the Science Museum and the Tate Gallery. As of 2013, The London Consortium exists solely as a legacy partnership between the constituent institutions for the benefit of the remaining PhD students until the completion of their dissertations.\n\nThe Consortium was founded in 1993 by the late social philosopher Paul Hirst (1947-2003), Mark Cousins, Richard Humphreys, and Colin MacCabe. Until 1999, the British Film Institute was part of the Consortium. After the BFI (British Film Institute) removed its involvement (due to policy changes and external pressures at that institution), it was replaced by the Institute of Contemporary Arts. In 2007, the Science Museum joined the collaboration, with its Head of Research, Peter Morris, contributing as a core faculty member.\n\nThe Consortium's permanent and adjunct faculty included figures such as the psychoanalytic theorist Parveen Adams, cultural theorist Steven Connor, architectural theorist and philosopher Mark Cousins, Tate curators Marko Daniel and Richard Humphreys, film theorist and producer Colin MacCabe, artist and writer Tom McCarthy, and film theorist Laura Mulvey. Past supervisors and visiting faculty have included cultural theorist Stuart Hall, psychoanalytic theorist Juliet Mitchell, writer Marina Warner, and psychoanalytic philosopher Slavoj Žižek. Its chairman was the lawyer and writer Anthony Julius.\n\nThe Consortium offered courses taught by faculty from across all five constituent institutions, including professors from Birkbeck and the Architectural Association, curators from the Tate and the Institute of Contemporary Arts, as well as external faculty drawn from various institutions in London and across the UK. Classes were taught in venues at Birkbeck, the Tate Modern and Tate Britain, the Institute of Contemporary Arts, and the Science Museum.\n\nThe Master of Research programme was available only as a one-year full-time course. It was a unique and challenging post-graduate introduction to theories, methods and knowledges in the humanities and cultural studies. Students combined coursework and research throughout, culminating in the production of a dissertation. The Master of Research was taken as a stand-alone degree in its own right, and also acted as a pathway into the Consortium PhD programme.\n\nThe MA in Film Curating, which was offered for two years beginning in October 2010, was a collaboration between the London Consortium and the London Film School. Bringing together recent thinking about curating contemporary art with the constantly evolving world of film, film festivals, and the movie business, it offered a theoretical exploration into the role of film curating in an age in which digital distribution technologies have transformed both the traditional notion of curating and the commercial film distribution sector. Students also gained practical experience in curating, within the context of existing film festivals like Cannes and Rotterdam, both of which were visited, and through the practical curation of film or film/related events.\n\nThe Consortium PhD included a taught component. First year PhD students followed the same core courses as those studying towards the MRes, courses designed to give a grounding in multidisciplinary research. Previous core courses included 'Catastrophe', 'St. Paul', 'Godard's \"Contempt\": Text and Pretext', 'Shit and Civilization', 'Metamorphosis', and 'Whiteness'. Through courses like these, the Consortium could be thought of as developing an original conception of Cultural Studies. While the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies at Birmingham University—founded by Richard Hoggart and for a long time the institutional home of Stuart Hall—conceived of Cultural Studies as the study of contemporary popular culture, the London Consortium has sought to develop a research and teaching climate where the study of older historical periods, on the one hand, and of 'high' culture on the other, can take its place alongside the more traditional foci of the discipline. This also entails a different approach to interdisciplinarity. Where interdisciplinary studies had often been content to merely ignore the traditional academic disciplines, and run roughshod over disciplinary boundaries, the London Consortium preferred to describe its activities as \"multidisciplinary\", reflecting the belief that while the best research benefited from being approached from two or more disciplinary perspectives, it must also stand up to the most exacting standards of the disciplines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48897009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48897009", "title": "Martha Goodway", "text": "Martha Goodway\n\nMartha Goodway is an American metallurgist, specializing in archaeometallurgy, the study of traditional techniques of mining, smelting, and working metals; and an expert in the use of metals in historical harpsichords.\n\nMartha Goodway was raised in Roslindale, Massachusetts. She graduated from Roslindale High School in 1952, and earned a bachelor's degree in general engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1957. She was one of only nineteen women to earn degrees at MIT that year.\n\nAfter college she became interested in conservation science, and studied with William Young at the Objects Conservation and Scientific Research Laboratory in Boston. Through Young's connections, she became a metallurgist at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory of the Smithsonian Institution. In that job, she worked on such diverse historical artifacts as waterproof Greek vessels, Etruscan mirrors, 18th-century wire jewelry from Germany, and the crankcase of the Wright Brothers' first flyer. She was also consulted for comments on the restoration of the Statue of Liberty.\n\nShe developed an interest in the use of metals in historical musical instruments, particularly the harpsichord, and co-authored a book on the subject in 1987.\n\nGoodway currently holds the title Archaeometallurgist Emeritus at the Smithsonian's Museum Conservation Institute.\n"}
{"id": "58028417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58028417", "title": "Maximum Security Prison, Robben Island", "text": "Maximum Security Prison, Robben Island\n\nMaximum Security Prison is an inactive prison at Robben Island in Table Bay, 6.9 kilometers (4.3 mi) west of the coast of Bloubergstrand, Cape Town, South Africa. It was prominent because of Nobel Laureate and former President of South Africa Nelson Mandela was imprisoned there for 18 of the 27 years he served behind bars before the fall of apartheid. After that, three former inmates of this prison Nelson Mandela, Kgalema Motlanthe, and Jacob Zuma have gone on to become President of South Africa.\n\nIt is a South African National Heritage Site as well as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nSince 1961, Maximum Security Prison was used by the South African government for political prisoners and convicted criminals.\n\nThe maximum security prison for political prisoners closed in 1991 and the medium security prison for criminal prisoners was closed five years later in 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21109494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21109494", "title": "Museum Europäischer Kulturen", "text": "Museum Europäischer Kulturen\n\nThe Museum of European Cultures () - National Museums in Berlin - Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation came from the unification of the Europe-Department in the Berlin Museum of Ethnography and the Berlin Museum for Folklore in 1999. The museum focuses on the lived-in world of Europe and European culture contact, predominantly in Germany from the 18th Century until today.\n\nThe museum, together with the Ethnological Museum of Berlin and the Museum of Asian Art, is located in the Dahlem Museums. The building was named after the architect Bruno Paul (1874 – 1968) and is located in the modern district of Steglitz-Zehlendorf. The museum’s exhibition rooms occupy the oldest building in the Dahlem Museums.\n\nThe current Museum of European Cultures was established from several previous institutions which arose at the beginning of the 19th century and are due in part to private initiatives as well as governmental foundations.\n\nThe basis of the exhibit was two shaman drums of the northern European Sámi which came to the Königlich Preußische Kunstkammer (Royal Prussian Art Collection) at the beginning of the 19th century. In 1859 the Neues Museum opened which, among others, had an ethnological collection. This collection also held the “Europa” Cabinet, which surmises the nucleus of the current Museum for European Cultures.\n\nThe Ethnological Museum of the Königlich Preußischen Museen (Royal Prussian Museums) was institutionally founded in 1873. In 1886 the Museum opened in a new building, which also contained European ethnographica, although no collections explicitly from Germany. Plans for a combined exhibit of both non-European objects and European objects, with special consideration of German culture, failed both because of lack of room as well as the founding of a “National Museum”, which presented the history of the European “folk” with a focus on German culture from pre-history until the then present day.\n\nThe private initiative of the Berliner physician, anthropologist, and politician Rudolf Virchow (1821-1902) and other members of the Berliner Anthropoligischen Gesellschaft (Berlin Anthropological Organization) led in 1889 to the founding and facilitation of the first Germany-wide central “Museum für deutsche Volkstrachten und Erzeugnisses des Hausgewerbes” (Museum for German Traditional Costumes and Handicrafts). From 1891 the Museum was financed through the Museum Association which was specifically established for this purpose. The goal of the museum was to give room to the cultural objects of their “own people” that had been excluded in ethnology as well as bordering, German-speaking lands. Furthermore, the material goods from the country and farms, which in the wake of Industrialization had begun to disappear, would be protected.\n\nThe private Museum for German Traditional Costume and Handicrafts, with the support of the Patron James Simon (1851-1932, from 1904 President of the Museum’s Association) and under the leadership of Karl Brunner (1904-1928), was in 1904 made part of the “Königliche Sammlung für Deutsche Volkskunde” (Royal Collection for German Folklore), part of the Königlich Preußischen Museen zu Berlin. The institution would administratively shelter and take care of the prehistoric department of the Museum for Ethnology. Due to the inexpedient incorporation of the department, the folklore collection there played only a marginal role.\n\nFirst in 1929 an independent „Staatliches Museum für deutsche Volkskunde“ (State Museum for German Folklore) was established. This museum was legally supported by the National Museums of Berlin. Director Konrad Hahm (1928-1943) preoccupied himself with intensive public work, varying exhibits, and purposeful lectures so that the richness and variety of the museum’s collections could be made known to a large audience. On top of that, he compiled numerous memoirs and conceptions of various forms of the folklore performances in a central Folklore Museum. \nFrom 1934 until 1945 the Museum for German Folklore received its own building in the Bellevue Palace. The relocation of the exhibition and administration buildings to the Prinzessinnenpalais (Princess Palace) next to the Berlin State Opera on Unter den Linden followed in 1938. The collections and workshops were moved as well into the former main building of the German Freemasons in the Splittgerbergasse. Occasionally, the museum made concessions to the ruling ideology of National Socialism. However, numerous exhibits coined from National Socialism and large propaganda shows were not achieved.\n\nKonrad Hahm dedicated himself to the founding of an “Instituts für Volkskunstforschung” (Institute for Folk Art Research) that under his guidance became associated with the Berlin University in 1940. One of the museum affiliated branches, “Schule und Museum” (School and Museum) appeared as early as 1939 in a museum pedagogic perspective. Adolf Reichwein, a progressive and humanistic educator and active resistance fighter in the Kreisau Circle, took over leadership until his arrest and later execution in October 1944.\n\nWith the establishment of a “Eurasian” department in the Museum for Ethnology, whose institution was consistent with the National Socialist ideology, the folklore collections had to give all of their “non-German” collection to the Museum for Ethnology. The museum, meanwhile, had to transfer all of their “German” objects to the Museum for German Folklore. Thereby a new institutional separation occurred between the two fields. In World War II, the museums lost numerous objects due to destruction, looting, and relocation to other places.\n\nAlthough the most valuable items of the museums’ collection were evacuated to nine different places in Berlin, Brandenburg, and Vorpommern in the last years of the war, around 80% of the collection was destroyed. The objects from the Berlin Flak Tower at the Zoo that were brought to Thuringia were carried from US garrisons back to Wiesbaden. The Soviet occupying forces transported the objects that remained at the flak tower as well as other valuable museum goods back to the Soviet Union in the summer of 1945.\n\nThe political separation of post-war Germany led to the foundation of two parallel museums in Berlin: a part of the collection was housed in the “Museum für Volkskunde” (Museum for Folklore) in the Pergamon Museum on the Museum Island, where after contextual-conceptual controversy it finally established itself with a new public collection. The other part in West Berlin was shortly affiliated with the Museum for Ethnology, but won its autonomy in the framework of the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation as the “Museum für Deutsche Volkskunde” (Museum for German Folklore) in 1963. Even so, it was first in 1976 when the museum moved to the reopened warehouse wing of the Prussian Privy State Archives in Berlin-Dahlem that it was accessible to the public. A ministerial dictate that forbid employees of the Staatliche Museen zu Berlin (East) to have contact with institutions of the Preußischen Kulturbesitzes in Berlin (West) was a crucial factor to the estrangement of both institutions.\n\nIn the 1980s both museums increasingly dedicated themselves to the cultural change from the industrial era right up to the life of the city dweller. With special exhibitions like “Großstadtproletariat” (Big City Proletariat) (1980–87) or “Dienstbare Geister” (Willing Hands) (1981) the museums were able to overcome the confinements of the pre-industrial country and farm culture. The aspiration of the collection-politic to direct itself to modern dynamics was only partly fulfilled. After the cooperation between the European Department of the Museum for Ethnology and the Museum for German Folklore, the idea came about in 1988 to found a “European Museum” as a reaction to the social and cultural processes of change as part of the advanced political and economical European integration.\n\nDuring the celebrations for the 100-year anniversary in 1989 of the Museums for (German) Folklore the latent contact between the two museums began to revive.\n\nIn connect to the political reunification of Germany the collections of the State Museums were brought together with the support of the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation. As part of the new orientation the separated museum inventories we initially unified into the “Museum für Volkskunde bei den Staatlichen Museen zu Berlin/Stiftung Preußischer Kulturbesitz” (Museum for Folklore by the National Museums in Berlin /Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation). This complex organizational challenge triggered a wave of controversial contentual/conceptual discussions that entailed reconciling and compromising in regards to the prospective structure of the museum. The original idea from the Museum for Ethnology at the end of the 1980s for a new concept of a museum with a European direction was elaborated: the Europe Department and the Museum for Folklore would be consolidated into one new museum.\n\nAs a result, the Museum of European Cultures, with its new programmatic direction, was founded in 1999. This new founding took into account the present societal, political, and cultural developments in Europe. The Museum explored historical, cultural, and nationalistic borders between the “us” and the purportedly foreign “them”. The museum also documented and collected, within European context, international exchange processes of the every day life of European societies and its accompanying changes. At the same time the museum busies itself with issues of the plural society in Germany, such as migrant movements, cultural diversity, its expression and societal effects, especially in urban settings.\n\nThe museum moved its exhibits to the Dahlem Museums in 2011 in the Bruno-Paul Building in Arnimallee 25. The workshops, warehouse, and employee offices can still be found in the old exhibit rooms on Im Winkel 6/8.\n\n"}
{"id": "4799149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4799149", "title": "Musée des Arts Décoratifs, Paris", "text": "Musée des Arts Décoratifs, Paris\n\nMusée des Arts Décoratifs (Museum of Decorative Arts), a museum of the decorative arts and design, located in the Palais du Louvre's western wing, known as the Pavillon de Marsan, at 107 rue de Rivoli, in the 1st arrondissement of Paris, France. It is one of three museum locations of Les Arts Décoratifs.\n\nThe museum also hosts exhibitions of fashion, advertising and graphic arts from its collections from the formerly separate but now defunct Musée de la Publicité and Musée de la mode et du textile.\n\nThe museum collection was founded in 1905 by members of the Union des Arts Décoratifs. The architect was Gaston Redon. It houses and displays furniture, interior design, altarpieces, religious paintings, \"objets d'arts\", tapestries, wallpaper, ceramics and glassware, plus toys from the Middle Ages to the present day.\n\nThe collection is primarily composed of French furniture, tableware, carpets such as those from Aubusson, porcelain such as that by the Manufacture nationale de Sèvres, and a large number of glass pieces by René Lalique, Émile Gallé and many others. It includes numerous works in the Art Nouveau and Art Déco styles and modern examples by designers like Eileen Gray and Charlotte Perriand. However, the museum's deep holdings range back to 13th-century Europe.\n\nOf interest to the public are the period rooms. Examples include part of Jeanne Lanvin's house (decorated by Albert-Armand Rateau [1884–1938] in the early 1920s) at 16 rue Barbet-de-Jouy in Paris. Others are graphic artist Eugène Grasset's dining room of 1880, and the 1752 Gold Cabinet of Avignon. And, peculiar to a French museum it seems, there is the 1875 bedroom of courtesan Lucie Émilie Delabigne, purportedly the inspiration for the main character in Émile Zola's novel \"Nana\" (1880).\n\nThere is a distinctive ceiling there once owned by Jeanne Baptiste d'Albert de Luynes, mistress of then duke of Savoy.\n\nSome of the museum's vast number of exhibitions have been distinguished. Yvonne Brunhammer, a curator and then director of the museum for over four decades from the early 1950s and the person who rediscovered Eileen Gray, organized the 1966 exhibition, \"Les Années '25': Art Déco/Bauhaus/Stijl Esprit Nouveau\". The exhibition served to coin \"Art Déco\", the term that came to describe design between the World Wars, particularly French modern design.\n\nThe museum is somewhat on a par with similar and venerable decorative-arts and design-focused institutions such as the more international Victoria and Albert Museum in London and was the inspiration for the Hewitt sisters' collection in the Cooper Union (the ancestor of the no-longer-affiliated Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum) in New York City. However, due to a large number of fine-art, publicity, fashion and design exhibitions mounted at the Paris museum, its focus has been diluted and caused its name, Musée des \"Art Decoratifs\", to be a misnomer. Thus, its name for popular use became MAD (mode, arts, design or, in English, fashion, arts, design) in January 2016<ref https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/13/arts/an-old-paris-museum-makes-a-new-name-for-itself.html</ref>, even though the acronym is the same as MAD (Museum of Arts and Design) in New York City.\n\nThe Musée des Arts Décoratifs was closed from 1996 due to a renovation of the building and of about 6,000 works from the collection; the renovation cost €35 million (about $45 million in 2006). The museum reopened on September 15, 2006. Béatrice Salmon, the current director and overseer of the restoration, has called the collection \"the history of French taste and of the decorative arts and design in France\" and has suggested: \"People [in France] understand how to relate to paintings and sculpture in a museum, but they don't know how to interpret objects\"<ref https://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/03/style/03iht-design4.html</ref>.\n\nPierre-Alexis Dumas, a principal of Hermès International and the president of the Fondation Hermès, was elected president in 2015. He succeeded Bruno Roger.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15236973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15236973", "title": "National Geographic Image Collection", "text": "National Geographic Image Collection\n\nNational Geographic Image Collection, a division of the National Geographic Society (NGS) headquartered in Washington, D.C., United States, is a stock photography agency that manages and licenses one of the world's most comprehensive and unique collections of photographs and original artwork. It maintains a collection of more than 10 million digital images, transparencies, black-and-white prints, early auto chromes, and pieces of original artwork.\n\nIn 2002, a portion of the collection was made available online for rights-managed licensing. In 2007, the online presence was reintroduced offering both rights-managed and royalty-free licensing. The site currently offers over 237,371 still images for licensing (41,559 RF, 195,812 RM).\n\nThe National Geographic Image Collection represents over one hundred photographers making them available for advertising, editorial, and corporate assignments.\n\nThe National Geographic Image Collection is the photographic and illustrations archive of the National Geographic Society. The Image Collection operates as a full-service stock photography agency as well as providing editing, research, and rights clearance services. Sophisticated systems are utilized to track, file, dupe, label, catalog, and research the images used in NGS products.\n\nThe permanent collection consists of over 10 million photographs and works of art. This includes 300,000 published images, 1 million file selects, and 300,000 staff rolls (9 million images). At any given time there are also 50-60,000 non-staff rolls (2 million images) in transit among Film Review, the Image Collection, and return to photographers.\n\nImages become part of the collection if they are \nSelected images are available online through their e-commerce site: www.nationalgeographicstock.com\n\nOn September 17, 2009 the National Geographic Image Collection opened its first exhibition of vintage National Geographic images at the Steven Kasher Gallery in Chelsea, New York. 150 vintage prints, many of which were never published in National Geographic Magazine, from a dozen photographers, were on display. The images, which make up a collective portrait of the Society’s early years, are stored in a windowless, climate-controlled, underground archive with roots reaching back more than a century.\n\nThe National Geographic Image Collection archive also includes glass-plate negatives and auto chromes, the earliest examples of color photography. In a walk-in refrigerated vault near the main archive room, the Image Collection stores hundreds of thousands of 35mm color transparencies and negatives, and it is now storing hundreds of thousands more digital images on hard drives.\n\nOn October 2, 2009 the National Geographic Image Collection released the largest single volume of world-renowned National Geographic photographs published by the organization. The 500-page \"National Geographic Image Collection\" showcases 120 years of world history, natural history and culture chronicled and preserved in the Society's unique archive of more than 11.5 million images. The work of 204 photographers includes approximately 400 color and black-and-white images that are presented and divided into four themes: Exploration, Wildlife, People & Culture, and Science & Climate Change. A behind-the-scenes profile of the entire Image Collection, including auto chromes, glass color transparencies, black-and-white prints, color transparencies and digital media is also covered in the book.\n\nThe National Geographic Image Collection represents hundreds of National Geographic photographers, writers, and artists. It acts as the photographers representative to market, license, and promote commercial and editorial assignment work. The National Geographic Image Collection generates ancillary income for the photographers, illustrators, and/or writers and collects a commission on all sales.\n\nThe National Geographic Image Collection represents photographers, artists, and writers who have signed a contract allowing the National Geographic Image Collection to act as their agent, or whose material was created while they were on staff at NGS. The National Geographic Society does not solicit images from photographers. Most photographic work is assigned by editors to staff and freelance photographers with years of experience in photojournalism.\n\nClients include in-house NGS users and outside clients requiring images for a variety of editorial and commercial uses. Sales executives and researchers provide research, dupes or digital files, clear rights, and pay photographers.\n\n"}
{"id": "41046694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41046694", "title": "Orang-Outang, sive Homo Sylvestris", "text": "Orang-Outang, sive Homo Sylvestris\n\nOrang-Outang, sive Homo Sylvestris: or, the Anatomy of a Pygmie Compared with that of a Monkey, an Ape, and a Man (1699) is a book by the British scientist Edward Tyson. Regarded as a seminal work on anatomy, this volume led to Tyson being known as the father of comparative anatomy. The book characterizes in detail the anatomy of a creature described as a \"pygmy\" (later known as a chimpanzee) and contains Tyson's views on the phylogeny of the pygmy and its relationship to humans, apes, and monkeys.\n\nThe use of the phrase \"orang-outang\" does not refer to members of the orangutan genus \"Pongo\", but rather uses the phrase to refer to the habitat of the subject; that is, a \"person of the forest\" (\"orangutan\" translates from Malay as \"person of the forest/jungle\".) Due to the absence of previous literature concerning chimpanzees, it is not clear whether or not the titular subject was a bonobo, \"Pan paniscus\", or a common chimpanzee, \"Pan troglodytes\", as there was not great prior distinction between the two. Following his summary of the anatomy of the subject, Tyson attaches fours essays concerning the ancients' knowledge of pygmies, cynocephali, satyrs, and sphinges.\n\nThe book was originally published in 1699 and was republished in 1894 with an introduction which contains a biography of Edward Tyson by Bertram C. A. Windle. Large portions of the book are block quotations in Latin of works from antiquity regarding the anatomy and socialization of the pygmy, much of which Tyson regarded as inaccurate myths and hearsay.\n\nThe letter of dedication is addressed to John Sommers, a Lord High Chancellor of England and President of the Royal Society. The letter thanks him for his dedication to the advancement of knowledge, specifically \"experimental natural philosophy\".\n\nThe preface consists of Tyson giving his reasons for conducting the study, \"to find out the truth, than to enlarge in the mythology; to inform the judgement, than to please the fancy\". He also laments his inability to compare his findings directly to apes and monkeys, instead having to rely on the works of others, such as Aristotle, Pliny, Galen, and Vesalius. Lastly he apologizes in advance for any mistakes on his part within the book.\n\nThe book itself is roughly divided into three parts containing Tyson's findings from his dissection of the pygmy and his comparison to previous findings, many of which are in Latin or Greek.\n\nTyson summarizes his observations on the external and internal anatomy of the pygmy, making note of their similarity or differences to humans. Most often he finds that the pygmy is different and \"inferior\" to humans, which is typical of the anthropocentrism of the time. Much of the text where he addresses previous findings are in Latin or Greek, although he does give explanations for why these authors' drew the conclusions they did, and why they are different or similar from his, in English.\n\nThis section is further subdivided into five sections, with much of the text being in Latin or Greek.\nThis section is not divided, but addresses the musculature of the pygmy from head to feet.\n\nHere Tyson gives the reader two lists, the first how the pygmy is more like a man than an ape, and the second how the pygmy is more like an ape than a man.\n\nA list of features Tyson found present in the pygmy which are more similar to a human than to an ape or a monkey; the terms use modern, common, anatomical terms which may differ from what is found in the book, but have been changed to ease the readers' understanding.\n\n\nA list of features Tyson found were more similar between the pygmy and the ape and monkey, and less similar to a human.\n\n"}
{"id": "34555015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34555015", "title": "Published work on cinema by Denis Gifford", "text": "Published work on cinema by Denis Gifford\n\n\"In addition to published work on cinema, this article also includes Denis Gifford's film credits.\"\n\nDenis Gifford provided one of the earliest researched archives of early cinema, with \"The British Film Catalogue, 1895–1970\", and produced numerous authoritative works on previously uncatalogued films from the UK and the US. Gifford had a particular interest in early horror and science fiction, and early comedy including Laurel and Hardy.\n\nGifford's work on cinema included both original research on cinema, such as \"The British Film Catalogue, 1895–1970\" and \"British Animated Films, 1895–1985: a Filmography\", which has considerable academic credibility, and more popular, heavily illustrated books, often on genre films, such as \"Movie Monsters\".\n\n\nGifford's involvement in cinema fanzines dates back to the early 1950s, and he continued to write for the fan press well into the 1980s, long after he was well established in large circulation magazines such as \"House of Hammer\". Gifford also conducted a large number of recorded interviews with of vintage showbusiness figures, including actors and filmmakers, intended for personal reference. Many of these are now kept as an archive by the BFI.\n\n\nGifford was a regular obituarist for British newspapers \"The Independent\" and \"The Guardian\". As well as specialising in the obituaries of film actors, screenwriters, producers and animators, Gifford also wrote many obituaries of comic creators and figures from television, radio and music hall.\n\n\nBiographic details may have been fully or partially published earlier in Gifford's \"The Illustrated Who's Who in British Films\" (1978).\n\nIn addition to writing extensively on cinema history, Gifford also scripted, directed and photographed a number of newsreel, information and commercial short films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20820076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20820076", "title": "Rare Book &amp; Manuscript Library", "text": "Rare Book &amp; Manuscript Library\n\nColumbia University's Rare Book & Manuscript Library is located on the 6th Floor of Columbia University's Butler Library. The library holds the special collections of Columbia University, as well as the Columbia University Archives. The range of the library's holdings spans more than 4,000 years, from cylinder seals created in Mesopotamia to contemporary artists' books. In addition to printed and manuscript resources, the library contains cuneiform tablets, papyri, ostraca, astronomical and mathematical instruments, maps, works of art, photographs, posters, early printing presses and papermaking equipment, type specimens, sound and moving image recordings, theater set models, puppets, masks, ephemera and memorabilia. The Rare Book and Manuscript Library includes unique and rare materials related to all subject areas.\n\nThe history of the rare book and manuscript collections dates from the founding of King's College, now Columbia University, in 1754. The library holds materials related to both the first and third presidents of the University, Samuel Johnson and his son William Samuel Johnson, donated by the family in 1914. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, the University acquired significant materials though gifts from Stephen Whitney Phoenix, Richard J. H. Gottheil, Brander Matthews, Robert H. Montgomery, David Eugene Smith, and George Plimpton. These gifts included medieval and Renaissance manuscripts, materials related to the history of accountancy, education, and mathematics, and the Dramatic Museum collections. The University’s first major collection purchase was Professor Edwin R. A. Seligman’s library on the history of economics in 1929. This purchase, and the creation of the Friends of the Libraries Group in the late 1920s, was the impetus for growth in the 1930s. The University moved to make provisions for the care of these types of materials, and the Trustees allowed for the establishment of the Rare Book Department on July 1, 1930. By the end of the 1930s, the library was housed on the sixth floor of Butler Library. As the library increased its collecting of archives and manuscripts, the name of the division was changed from the Rare Book Department to the Department of Special Collections in 1946. Its current name was adopted in 1975.\n\nAlthough many of these collections contained significant manuscripts, the collecting of manuscripts and archives in their own right took on greater importance after World War II. The library acquired several significant manuscript collections in the 1930s and 1940s, including those of editor Park Benjamin and author Stephen Crane. This work continued into the 1950s, during which time the library acquired significant collections related to American history and diplomacy, including those of John Jay. Over the years, the library has acquired archival materials in several key collecting areas—economics and banking, graphic arts, history, human rights, literature, performing arts, printing history, and publishing. In addition, the library includes a number of separately curated archival units, such as the Carnegie Philanthropy Collections, the Bakhmeteff Archive of Russian and East European Culture (named for Boris Bakhmeteff), and the Herbert H. Lehman American History Collections.\n\nThe library’s collections are particularly strong in English and American history and literature, children's literature, economics and banking, education, graphic arts, human rights, journalism history, librarianship, mathematics and astronomy, New York City politics, philanthropy, printing history, social welfare and social work, theater history, and the performing arts.\n\nThe Rare Book & Manuscript Library has eleven units:\n\nThese are located within the Rare Book & Manuscript Library on the 6th floor of Butler Library; they collect, preserve, and make available for research the administrative records of Columbia University, as well as personal papers, publications, and memorabilia related to the University’s history. \n\nArchival holdings date from the 18th through the early 21st centuries and document the evolution of University governance and administration; the history and development of individual schools, colleges, and academic departments; the professionalization of higher education and the development of academic disciplines; curriculum development, including the formation of the Core Curriculum; the careers of noteworthy faculty and officers; the design and construction of the Morningside campus; and the University’s relationships with city, state, and federal governments. Administrative records available for research in 2007 are those that were created prior to 1982. In addition the UA retains University publications from bulletins to yearbooks; a library of books and pamphlets on Columbia’s history; scrapbooks and memorabilia; in excess of 60,000 images, as well as some 50,000 negatives (both glass plate and film); a collection of lantern slides; and biographical information on students, faculty, and alumni.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "418537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418537", "title": "Relic (novel)", "text": "Relic (novel)\n\nRelic is a 1995 novel by American authors Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child, and the first in the Special Agent Pendergast series. As a techno-thriller, it comments on the possibilities inherent in genetic manipulation, and is critical of museums and their role both in society and in the scientific community. It is the basis of the film \"The Relic\" (1997).\n\nIn September 1987, Dr. Julian Whittlesey is leading an expedition through the Amazon Basin, in the Brazilian rainforest, in search of the lost Kothoga tribe. He hopes to prove that they still do exist and in the process learn more about their culture, including their lizard god Mbwun (\"He Who Walks On All Fours\"), supposedly the son of Satan. However, Whittlesey disappears after finding the mutilated body of his partner, Crocker, and realizes that a creature in the bush is stalking him. A year later, in Belem, a dock worker named Ven is suddenly and brutally killed when a freighter arrives with a shipment of crates from Whittlesey's expedition.\n\nSeven years later, in a fictionalized version of New York City's American Museum of Natural History, two young boys are found dead in a museum stairwell, having gotten lost in the late hours of the museum. NYPD Lieutenant Vincent D'Agosta leads the subsequent investigation. He has the museum under tight lockdown and its staff placed under curfew, for fear the murderer is still hiding somewhere in the museum or the many catacombs that run underneath it. The three prominent leaders of the museum - curator Winston Wright, deputy head Ian Cuthbert, and public relations director Lavinia Rickman - all try to keep the murders under wraps, as the grand gala opening of the new \"Superstition\" exhibition, led by George Moriarty, draws nearer, an event that will feature many wealthy benefactors as well as Mayor Harper. Rickman even hires \"New York Times\" reporter Bill Smithback, Jr. to cover the murder investigation but repeatedly edits his reports so they will appear more favorable towards the museum and its leadership. Assistant Curator Gregory Kawakita jokingly begins spreading the rumor of the \"Museum Beast\", a legendary monster that has allegedly been roaming the tunnels under the museum for years and is responsible for the murders. Although the rumors are initially dismissed as myth, D'Agosta is shocked during the autopsy to discover a claw buried in one of the boy's brains.\n\nWhen a security guard suffers a similarly brutal death, FBI Special Agent Aloysius Pendergast arrives to aid in the investigation, having taken a personal interest in the unique nature of the kills. The investigation intensifies as the gala draws nearer, with the search spreading to the tunnels under the museum. Dr. Margo Green and her mentor, Dr. Whitney Frock, initially take little to no interest in the investigation, but Pendergast eventually approaches them when he realizes the claw from the autopsy matches the claws on a Mbwun figurine that had been sent back to the museum in a crate in 1987 and is set to be put on display in the new exhibition. Green, with Smithback's help, manages to get into the secure vault and gain access to some letters that Whittlesey had sent to a museum colleague named H.C. Montague, detailing the struggles the 1987 expedition had been going through. Pendergast then reveals the primary reason for his interest in the case: the nature of the murders of the two boys and the security guard matches the murder of the Brazilian dock worker in 1988, as well as several other dock workers in Louisiana later that year. Pendergast was able to trace back to the one connection among the museum murders, the Louisiana murder, and the Belem murder: the shipment of crates Whittlesey had sent the museum in 1987. However, other than one smaller crate containing the Mbwun figurine, the crates were empty, save massive quantities of local plant leaves apparently used as packaging. Frock reveals that those crates have been moved into the heavily reinforced secure vault as well, and after Green and Smithback's stunt to get the letters, the directors are well aware of their intentions and will never allow them access to the crates. Pendergast hints at the possibility that the murders might not have been committed by a human, and that the Mbwun monster may somehow have been sent to the museum by Whittlesey's shipment.\n\nReading through more of Whittlesey's letters, Green and Smithback discover one other major colleague of Whittlesey's who is still working at the museum, and to whom one of the letters was addressed, Dr. Jorgensen. They ask Jorgensen about the nature of the expedition and its aftermath. Jorgensen explains that Whittlesey was determined to prove that the Kothoga tribe had not gone extinct, and that he had found it at long last on a \"tepui\" deep in the Brazilian jungle. In addition, Whittlesey had apparently discovered a unique plant at the base of the \"tepui\" that had some kind of protein-like quality to it. However, Whittlesey was being accompanied by a museum bureaucrat simply identified as \"Maxwell\", whose job was to hinder Whittlesey's progress so that the find would not collide with the local government's discovery of an undisclosed natural resource that had been discovered on the \"tepui\". Determined to mine the entire area, the government dropped napalm on the \"tepui\" in 1988, killing all of the remaining Kothoga and destroying the plant. Jorgensen also reveals that Whittlesey's colleague Montague had disappeared rather suddenly several years ago. Green and Frock soon realize that the plant Whittlesey discovered was the same plant that had been sent back as packaging in the crates, and that Whittlesey had never sent the crates back to the museum empty; that the main content of the crates was the plant itself. The day of the gala, Green and Frock then begin running computer analyses on samples of the plant as well as the claw from the autopsy. The results reveal that the plants are rich in thalamoid hormones, which can also be found in the human hypothalamus gland, though to a much lesser extent. After reviewing the autopsy reports, Green realizes that what all of the murders - in the museum and in Louisiana and Brazil - all had in common was that the hypothalamus had been ripped out of the victim's heads and was completely missing. The analysis of the claw creates a general caricature of the creature in the question, comprising a primary mix of primate, reptile, and human genes; a nocturnal nature; a strong sense of smell; a quadruped build; a maximum speed of 60-70 KPH; and thick muscle definition and bone structure. Frock describes this hypothetical combination as having the strength of a grizzly bear, the speed of a greyhound, and the intelligence of a human being - the ultimate predator. Frock and Green finally discover the truth behind the entire ordeal, but their efforts to warn their superiors before the gala are thwarted.\n\nAs the investigation ultimately did not produce a suspect, the gala is allowed to begin, with a tightened security presence by the NYPD and the FBI, under the official command of Special Agent Coffey. The exhibition initially appears to be going fine until the body of NYPD officer Fred Beauregard drops down from the rafters above the exhibition and right into the crowd, causing a mass panic. At the same time, an NYPD officer named Waters, assigned to monitor the museum's security control room, hears a strange noise in the generator room (revealed to be merely the air conditioner pump) and opens fire, only to completely destroy the central switching box and shut down the museum's power. This results in the museum's massive, metal security doors automatically closing, separating the museum into five cells and trapping a handful of guests, staff, and security personnel alike inside the museum. When the chaos settles, dozens of people have either been killed by the stampeding crowd or crushed by the closing doors, and the roughly three-dozen who are trapped inside the area where the exhibition is includes D'Agosta, Smithback, Cuthbert, Wright, Rickman, Mayor Harper, museum security director Ippolito, and NYPD officer John Bailey. Coffey and Kawakita manage to make it outside the museum, while Green, Frock, and Pendergast are all in the tunnels under the museum, and all three soon encounter the creature. Pendergast manages to fire a single shot, which simply bounces off the creature's skull.\n\nPendergast manages to communicate with D'Agosta via radio, to warn him about the creature, and explains that the best way for the trapped crowd to escape is down through the museum tunnels, which eventually lead to the sewer systems of New York. The three directors refuse to head down into the tunnels, and instead retreat into Wright's office on the fourth floor. Just as D'Agosta prepares to lead the crowd down the first stairwell, the creature attacks and kills Ippolito and an injured guest. The rest of the crowd manages to escape down into the tunnels. Although extremely skeptical of the consistent reports of a creature's being responsible, Coffey eventually orders a SWAT team to descend into the museum through the skylights, to eliminate the creature. The Mbwun then enters the office where the three directors are hiding, and Cuthbert sends Rickman and a now-drunk Wright into the adjacent dinosaur area to safety, while he draws a pistol to make a stand. However, the creature suddenly leaves him alone and pursues the other two, killing both of them. Cuthbert is rescued by the SWAT team shortly before they move in to attack the creature, only for the entire team to be slaughtered.\n\nThe crowd manages to navigate the tunnels and reaches the sewers just before the creature returns, killing Bailey. They then reach a massive underground chamber that is filled with skeletons and torn meat, presumably the creature's lair. They struggle to stay above the rising water as the storm outside intensifies, and another woman is dragged away by the current and dies, shortly before the crowd finally reaches a manhole and escapes back out onto the streets of New York. Pendergast and Green devise a plan to make a final stand against the creature, with Pendergast hoping to use his old hunting techniques of shooting the creature's legs in order to stop its charge. However, the shots do not penetrate the hide, and the creature closes in. At the last second, Green shouts for Pendergast to shoot through the creature's eye, allowing the bullet to pass straight through the skull and into the brain, which kills it instantly.\n\nIn the epilogue four weeks later, Green, Frock, Kawakita, Pendergast, D'Agosta, and Smithback all convene in Frock's office to discuss the events of that night. Pendergast explains everything in great detail: the Kothoga legend claimed that Mbwun was given to them by Satan in order to slay their enemies in battle, when in actuality, the Kothoga created the Mbwun by feeding a human the strange plant that Whittlesey had discovered and shipped back to the museum. Eating the plant resulted in the human subject's undergoing the transformation process into the creature known as Mbwun, larger, faster, stronger, and slightly smarter. However, the Mbwun subsequently needed a consistent supply of the plant in order to survive, like an addictive drug. When the \"tepui\" where the Kothoga and Mbwun lived was completely destroyed, the Mbwun knew the last surviving samples of the plant were in the crates Whittlesey had shipped back, and thus, it followed the crates all the way to New York. It initially lived off the plants in a steady ration for years, and in the process, killed Montague one day when he came down to investigate the crates. Montague's disappearance was marked by a puddle of blood by the crates, but when it was discovered by Cuthbert, Wright, and Rickman, they washed it away to preserve the museum's reputation. As part of the cover-up, the crates were moved into the heavily fortified vault, moving them permanently out of the Mbwun's reach. Thus, in order to stay alive, it needed the next best substitute: the human hypothalamus. Though it tried its best to keep its existence a secret by living off smaller animals and homeless individuals in the sewers, it eventually turned to the murders of the boys and the security guard. Even during the police investigation, it could no longer deny its appetite, and thus ran amok during the exhibition. Pendergast also reveals that, among the bodies that were found in the lair were the remains of Moriarty and a pendant that Whittlesey had always worn on him, serving as proof that the creature killed both of them. Cuthbert has since been institutionalized, Coffey was demoted and sent to the Waco field office, and Smithback reveals that he will release a book on the entire event, with half of the money going to a memorial fund for the late Bailey and his family.\n\nIn his lab, Kawakita has realized an horrific truth; the creature didn't kill Whittlesey and take his pendant as a trophy, it actually WAS Whittlesey. He speculates that the Kothoga, having failed with Mbwun using their own people, had decided to feed the plant to a white man instead, hoping the resulting creature would be easier to control. The gamble failed, and Whittlesey was able to survive on the plants for years before their destruction, and he followed his own samples back home to the museum. Thanks to the samples that survived and were analyzed, Kawakita manages to develop a drug that would turn the users into addicts first, then into Mbwun. He begins selling it on the street, reflecting that the Kothoga's problem had been that Mbwun was able to feed on the plants himself whenever he wanted, and so they had no hold over it. Now, as the only person alive capable of making the drug, the creatures would never turn on him; he would have total control over the creatures and succeed where the Kothoga failed.\n\n\n\n\nA film based on the book was released in 1997, but changed several aspects of the story, omitting numerous characters and changing the setting to the Chicago Museum of Natural History rather than the New York Museum of Natural History (fictional but strongly based on the American Museum of Natural History). The film was directed by Peter Hyams and stars Penelope Ann Miller as Dr. Margo Green, Tom Sizemore as Lt. Vincent D'Agosta, and Linda Hunt as Dr. Ann Cuthbert.\n\nThe film gives away key plot points throughout its duration of the film; in contrast, in the novel, the explanation is delivered in the last few pages, giving the book a twist ending. The movie has a similar twist during its climax. The following table details additional changes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33757147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33757147", "title": "Seven Psychopaths", "text": "Seven Psychopaths\n\nSeven Psychopaths is a 2012 dark comedy crime film written and directed by Martin McDonagh. It stars Colin Farrell, Sam Rockwell, Woody Harrelson, and Christopher Walken, with Tom Waits, Abbie Cornish, Olga Kurylenko, and Željko Ivanek in supporting roles. The film marks the second collaboration among McDonagh, Farrell, and Ivanek, following the director's \"In Bruges\" (2008). The film was a co-production of the United States and the United Kingdom.\n\n\"Seven Psychopaths\" had its world premiere on 7 September 2012 at the Toronto International Film Festival. It was released in the United States and Canada on 12 October 2012, and in the United Kingdom on 5 December 2012.\n\nMarty is a struggling writer who dreams of finishing his screenplay, \"Seven Psychopaths\". Marty's best friend, Billy, makes a living by kidnapping dogs and collecting the owners' rewards for their safe return. Billy's partner-in-crime is Hans, a religious man with a cancer-stricken wife, Myra.\n\nMarty writes a story for another psychopath, the \"Quaker\", who stalks his daughter's killer for decades, driving the killer to suicide. Billy suggests Marty use the \"Jack of Diamonds\" killer, perpetrator of a recent double murder, as one of the psychopaths. Billy places an advertisement in the newspaper inviting psychopaths to call and share their stories for Marty to use in his script. A man named Zachariah Rigby approaches Marty and shares his story, with the condition that the movie include a message to his partner in crime.\n\nBilly and Hans steal a Shih Tzu named Bonny, unaware that it is the beloved pet of Charlie Costello, an unpredictable and violent gangster. Charlie's thugs, led by Paulo, discover Hans' connection to the kidnapping. They threaten to kill Marty and Hans, but the Jack of Diamonds killer arrives and kills the thugs. Charlie traces Myra to the cancer ward and kills her after she refuses to tell him anything.\n\nBilly goes to Costello's house to meet his girlfriend, Angela, who is also Charlie's girlfriend. After Billy reveals to her that he kidnapped Bonny, she calls Charlie to tell him. Billy, after finding out that Charlie killed Myra, shoots Angela in retaliation. Charlie arrives at Billy's address and discovers many packs of playing cards with the jack of diamonds missing, and realizes Billy is the \"Jack of Diamonds\" killer.\n\nMarty, Billy, and Hans leave the city with Bonny. Hans reveals that he was the Quaker. Marty wrote his story after hearing it from a drunken Billy. The trio drive into the desert and set up camp. Billy suggests \"Seven Psychopaths\" end with a shootout between the psychopaths and Charlie's forces.\n\nMarty and Hans see a headline saying that Billy is wanted in connection with the Jack of Diamonds killings. Marty confronts Billy, who reveals that he assumed the Jack of Diamonds persona to give Marty inspiration. Marty tells Billy they must go home. Meanwhile, Hans has a vision of Myra in which she is in a \"grey place,\" leading Hans to question his belief in the afterlife. He ignores Marty's reassurances that his vision was a peyote-induced hallucination. Billy sets the car on fire, stranding the trio, and calls Charlie, telling him their location. Billy claims he impersonated Myra, causing Hans to leave.\n\nBilly, with Bonny in tow, anxiously waits for Charlie to arrive, intending to have a climactic shootout. Charlie arrives alone, without a weapon apart from a flare gun. An enraged Billy shoots Charlie, feeling cheated out of a shootout. Marty drives away with Charlie, intending to take him to a hospital, while Billy realizes the flare gun's purpose and fires it. Hans finds Charlie's thugs awaiting the flare signal. The large group catches the attention of the police, who draw closer. Hans pretends to draw a weapon, causing Paulo to shoot him in front of the police. Before dying, Hans says \"It isn't grey at all\".\n\nThe thugs head towards the signal, with police in pursuit, and encounter Marty and Charlie, who reveals that he only suffered a flesh wound. With backup, Charlie returns to Billy's location. After a shootout, Charlie and Billy have a stand-off, respectively holding Marty and Bonny hostage. Charlie releases Marty and shoots Billy just as the police arrive. Charlie and Paulo are arrested, but Bonny stays at the dying Billy's side. Marty visits the scene of Hans's death, and finds a tape recorder with suggestions for \"Seven Psychopaths\".\n\nMarty, having adopted Bonny, finishes the screenplay. Some time later, after the \"Seven Psychopaths\" movie is shown in theater, Marty receives a call from Zachariah, who intends to kill him for forgetting to leave a message as promised. On hearing Marty's weary and resigned acceptance, Zachariah realizes that Marty's experiences have left him a changed man, and decides to spare him.\n\nThe first casting announcements were made on 12 May 2011. Mickey Rourke dropped out of \"The Expendables 2\" to co-star in the film. He later dropped out of \"Seven Psychopaths\" after having disagreements with McDonagh, calling him a \"jerk-off.\" He was replaced by Woody Harrelson. Of the incident, McDonagh said \"I was fine with it. Mickey's a great actor [...] I've known Woody [Harrelson] for years and years, and he was a perfect choice for this too. He's got those great dramatic elements which he's shown in \"Rampart\" recently, and he's always been a fantastic comedian. You need that in this – someone who can be out-and-out funny, but also turn sinister on a dime.\"\n\nThe film was shot in Los Angeles and Joshua Tree National Park, Twentynine Palms, California. Filming was completed late 2011. The first set photos were revealed on 11 November 2011.\n\nThe film's score was composed by Carter Burwell, who previously composed the score to McDonagh's \"In Bruges\". Lakeshore Records released the soundtrack digitally on 23 October 2012, with a physical release date of 20 November 2012.\n\n\"Seven Psychopaths\" was released in North America on 12 October 2012, and opened in 1,480 theaters in the United States, grossing $1,360,000 on its opening day and $4,275,000 on its opening weekend, ranking #9 with a per theater average of $2,889. On its second weekend, it dropped down to #11 and grossed $3,273,480, with a per theater average of $2,212. By its third weekend, it dropped down even more to #15 and made $1,498,350, with a per theater average of $1,494. It was released 5 December 2012 in the United Kingdom.\n\n\"Seven Psychopaths\" received positive reviews from critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 82%, based on 210 reviews, with an average rating of 7.1/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Seven Psychopaths\" delivers sly cinematic commentary while serving up a heaping helping of sharp dialogue and gleeful violence.\" At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the film holds a score of 66 out of 100, based on 43 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews.\"\n\nEric Kohn of \"IndieWire\" gave the film a positive review and a \"A-\" grade, praising McDonagh's writing, stating that it \"hits a unique pitch between dark, bloody satire and interpersonal conflicts that makes his finest work play like a combination of Quentin Tarantino and Aaron Sorkin.\" About the film itself, he wrote: \"A less controlled and slapdash character piece than \"In Bruges\", McDonagh's new movie benefits greatly from a plethora of one-liners that toy with crime movie clichés in the unlikely context of writerly obsessions.\" Claudia Puig of \"USA Today\" also gave the film a positive review, writing that \"men in movies are often just overgrown boys, and \"Seven Psychopaths\" is out to prove it – in the most twisted, hilarious way possible.\" Roger Ebert of \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film three-and-a-half stars out of four. He praised the performances of main cast members and McDonagh's writing, stating that \"Walken sometimes leans toward self-parody, but here his performance has a delicate, contained strangeness. All of the actors are good, and Farrell wisely allows the showier performances to circle around him. Like any screenwriter – like Tarantino, for example, who is possibly McDonagh's inspiration here – he brings these people into being and stands back in amazement.\" About the film, he added: \"This is a delightfully goofy, self-aware movie that knows it is a movie.\" Lisa Schwarzbaum of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film a \"B+\" grade, stating: \"An energetically demented psycho-killer comedy set in faux-noir L.A., \"Seven Psychopaths\" rollicks along to the unique narrative beat and language stylings of Anglo-Irish writer-director Martin McDonagh (\"In Bruges\"), channeling Quentin Tarantino.\"\n\nDavid Rooney of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" praised the performances of the main cast members, he stated: \"As creatively bankrupt Marty, Farrell is in subdued mode here, his performance largely defined by the endless expressivity of his eyebrows. He serves as an excellent foil for Rockwell, whose line readings continually dance between knowingness and idiocy, and Walken, who ventures as far into deadpan as you can go while remaining conscious. And Harrelson has fun contrasting his devotion to Bonny with his contempt for humanity.\" He wrote about the film that \"while it's way behind the \"Pulp Fiction\" curve, \"Seven Psychopaths\" can be terrifically entertaining.\" Catherine Shoard of \"The Guardian\" gave the film four stars out of five, indicating a positive review, she wrote: \"There are scenes of complete brilliance, Walken is better than he's been in years, cute plot loops and grace notes.\" Peter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" gave the film three stars out of four, stating: \"Blood splatters, heads explode, and McDonagh takes sassy, self-mocking shots at the very notion of being literary in Hollywood. It's crazy-killer fun.\" Ty Burr of \"Boston Globe\" also gave the film three stars out of four, stating that the film is \"absurdly entertaining even after it disappears up its own hindquarters in the last act, and it gives some of our weirder actors ample room to play.\"\n\nMichael Phillips of \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film three stars out of four, writing that \"the result is a clever, violent daydream. But McDonagh's skill behind the camera has grown considerably since \"In Bruges\". And the way he writes, he's able to attract the ideal actors into his garden of psychopathology.\" Dana Stevens of \"Slate\" magazine gave the film a positive review, stating: \"It's at once a gangster movie, a buddy comedy, and a meta-fictional exploration of the limits of both genres - and if that sounds impossible to pull off, well, McDonagh doesn't, quite. But the pure sick brio of \"Seven Psychopaths\" takes it a long way.\" Richard Corliss of \"Time\" magazine also gave the film a positive review, writing that \"small in stature but consistently entertaining, \"Seven Psychopaths\" is a vacation from consequence for the Tony- and Oscar-winning author, and an unsupervised play date for his cast of screw-loose stars.\" James Berardinelli of \"ReelViews\" gave the film two-and-a-half stars out of four, stating: \"On balance, one could argue that \"Seven Psychopaths\" warrants a better rating than a mediocre **1/2, but the aftertaste is so bitter that it diminishes the sweetness that started off the meal.\"\n\nPeter Debruge of \"Variety\" magazine gave the film a mixed review, stating that \"the film's overall tone is so cartoony, it's easy to imagine someone spinning off a macabre animated series of the same name...\" and that \"compared to McDonagh's best work for stage (\"The Lieutenant of Inishmore\") and screen (\"In Bruges\"), \"Seven Psychopaths\" feels like either an older script knocking around the bottom of a drawer or a new one hastily tossed off between more ambitious projects.\" Kevin Jagernauth of \"The Playlist\" also gave the film a mixed review, stating that \"somewhat spastic and overcooked, \"Seven Psychopaths\" might have a few too many.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "29428608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29428608", "title": "Sudovian Book", "text": "Sudovian Book\n\nThe so-called Sudovian Book (, ) was an anonymous work about the customs, religion, and daily life of the Old Prussians from Sambia. The manuscript was written in German in the 16th century. The original did not survive and the book is known from later copies, transcriptions and publications. Modern scholars disagree on the origin and value of the book. Despite doubts about its reliability, the book became popular and was frequently quoted in other history books. Much of the Prussian mythology is reconstructed based on this work or its derivatives.\n\nAccording to Aleksander Brückner, the book originated from letters written around 1545 by Protestant priest Hieronymus Malecki using information from \"Constitutiones Synodales\" published in 1530. The letters were expanded and translated by Malecki's son, who published the Sudovian Book in 1561. Therefore, it contained no new or valuable information and could not be considered an independent source of Prussian mythology.\n\nWilhelm Mannhardt believed that Malecki only prepared previously written anonymous manuscript for publication. According to Mannhardt, the book predated and was used as a source for \"Constitutiones Synodales\". He claimed that the book was written by Lutheran clergy – Georg von Polenz, Bishop of Sambia, Erhard von Queis, Bishop of Pomesania, and Paulus Speratus, preacher of Albert, Duke of Prussia, and later Bishop of Pomesania. During the 1520s they visited different parishes, collected information about pagan beliefs, and memorialized the findings in the \"Sudovian Book\", which was then summarized in the \"Constitutiones Synodales\".\n\nLithuanian historian Ingė Lukšaitė claimed that both the \"Sudovian Book\" and \"Constitutiones Synodales\" were parts of a larger more extensive work. She noted that these works written in Renaissance style – the author did not condemn the pagan beliefs and rituals, which was improbable if the works were prepared by Christian clergy seeking to eradicate paganism. Therefore, authors cannot be ascertained.\n\nThe book included a list of Prussian gods, sorted in a generally descending order from sky to earth to underworld: Ockopirmus (chief god of sky and stars), Swayxtix (god of light), Auschauts (god of the sick), Autrimpus (god of sea), Potrimpus (god of running water), Bardoayts (god of boats), Pergrubrius (god of plants), Pilnitis (god of abundance), Parkuns (god of thunder and rain), Peckols (god of hell and darkness), Pockols (flying spirit or devil), Puschkayts (god of earth) and his servants Barstucke (little people) and Markopole.\n\nThe book also discussed in detail traditional weddings, funerals, and honoring of the dead. In particular, the book described ritual sacrifice of a goat by a priest (called \"Wourschaity\") in great detail. The work describes customs of Sudovians living in Sambia. It is known from Peter von Dusburg that 1600 and 1500 Sudovians were relocated to Sambia at the end of the 13th century. Their descendants still lived in the so-called Sudovian Corner and were known as determined believers in their pagan gods. Therefore, Norbertas Vėlius suggested that the work dealt not with Prussian, but with Sudovian gods and traditions.\n"}
{"id": "33516982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33516982", "title": "Tel Aviv Cinematheque", "text": "Tel Aviv Cinematheque\n\nTel Aviv Cinematheque (also called: Doron Cinema center) is a cinematheque and movie archive, opened in Tel Aviv on 12 May 1973.\n\nThe Cinematheque, located at HaArba'a Street 2, has five screening halls . The Cinematheque programming includes Israeli and foreign films and offers private business screenings to help support the enterprise. Sometimes screenings are held for new Israeli films.\n\nFilm festivals held at the cinematheque include TLVFest, \"Doc Aviv\" Documentary Film Festival, \"Moments of French Cinema\", an Australian Film Festival and more. The festivals are supported by groups such as the Tel Aviv Museum of Art.\n\nThe cinematheque lobby hosts photo exhibitions by Israeli artists. It also publishes a film journal called \"Cinematheque\".\n\nThe current building was designed by Israeli Architect Salo Hershman, and was opened in 1989.\n\nIn September 2011 the Israel Cinema Center opened adjacent to the cinematheque. The new wing is three times the size of the original space and contains three new theaters, offices, a library and a restaurant. Like the original building, the new wing was designed by Salo Hershman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41751506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41751506", "title": "The Car Keys", "text": "The Car Keys\n\nThe Car Keys () is a 2003 French comedy film directed by Laurent Baffie.\n"}
{"id": "45296799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45296799", "title": "The Sense of Style", "text": "The Sense of Style\n\nThe Sense of Style: The Thinking Person's Guide to Writing in the 21st Century is a 2014 English style guide written by cognitive scientist, linguist and popular science author Steven Pinker. Building upon earlier guides, such as Strunk & White's \"The Elements of Style\" and Fowler's \"A Dictionary of Modern English Usage\", it applies science to the process of writing, and explains its prescriptions by citing studies in related fields – e.g., grammatical phenomena, mental dynamics, and memory load – as well as history and criticism, to \"distinguish the rules that enhance clarity, grace, and emotional resonance from those that are based on myths and misunderstandings\".\n\nPinker's prescriptions combine data from ballots given to the Usage Panel of the \"American Heritage Dictionary\", the usage notes of several dictionaries and style guides, the historical analyses in \"Merriam–Webster's Dictionary of English Usage\", the meta-analysis in Roy Copperud's \"American Usage and Style: The Consensus\", and views from modern linguistics represented in \"The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language\" and the blog Language Log.\n\n\"Style\" is the effective use of words to engage the human mind. Style manuals that are innocent of linguistics are crippled in dealing with the aspect of writing that evokes the most emotion: correct and incorrect usage. Orthodox stylebooks are ill-equipped to deal with a fundamental fact about language: it changes over time. Language is not a protocol legislated by an authority but rather a wiki that pools the contributions of millions of writers and speakers.\n\n\"Reverse-engineering good prose as the key to developing a writerly ear\" – The starting point for becoming a good writer is to be a good reader. Good writers are avid readers. They have absorbed a vast inventory of words, idioms, constructions, tropes, and rhetorical tricks, and with them a sensitivity to how they mesh and how they clash. This is the elusive \"ear\" of a skilled writer – the tacit sense of style which cannot be explicitly taught.\n\n\"Classic style as an antidote for academese, bureaucratese, corporatese, legalese, officialese, and other kinds of stuffy prose\" – The key to good style, far more than obeying any list of commandments, is to have a clear conception of the make-believe world in which you're pretending to communicate. A writer of classic prose must simulate two experiences: showing the reader something in the world, and engaging the reader in conversation. Classic style is an ideal. Not all prose should be classic, and not all writers can carry off the pretense. But knowing the hallmarks of classic style will make anyone a better writer, and it is \"the strongest cure for the disease that enfeebles academic, bureaucratic, corporate, legal, and official prose\".\n\nThe main cause of incomprehensible prose is the curse of knowledge – the difficulty of imagining what it is like for someone else not to know something that you know. Be aware of specific pitfalls that it sets in your path, e.g., the use of jargon, abbreviations, and technical vocabulary. Show a draft to some people who are similar to your intended audience, and find out whether they can follow it. Show a draft to yourself, after enough time has passed that the text is no longer familiar. Rework and revise.\n\n\"Understanding syntax can help a writer avoid ungrammatical, convoluted, and misleading prose\" – Learning how to bring the units of language into consciousness can allow writers to reason their way to grammatically consistent sentences, and to diagnose problems. Grammar is a fascinating subject in its own right, when it is properly explained.\n\n\"How to ensure that readers will grasp the topic, get the point, keep track of the players, and see how one idea follows from another\" – Even if every sentence in a text is crisp, lucid, and well formed, a succession of them can feel choppy, disjointed, unfocused, incoherent. A coherent text is a designed object: an ordered tree of sections within sections, crisscrossed by arcs that track topics, points, actors, and themes, and held together by connectors that tie one proposition to the next. Like other designed objects, it comes about not by accident but by drafting a blueprint, attending to details, and maintaining a sense of harmony and balance.\n\n\"How to make sense of the rules of correct grammar, word choice, and punctuation\" – The idea that there are exactly two approaches to usage – all the traditional rules must be followed, or else anything goes – is a myth. The first step in mastering usage is to understand why the myth is wrong. There is no such thing as a \"language war\" between prescriptivists and descriptivists. \"The alleged controversy is as bogus as other catchy dichotomies such as \"nature versus nurture\" and \"America: Love It or Leave It\".\" The key is to recognize that the rules of usage are \"tacit conventions\". A convention is an agreement among the members of a community to abide by a single way of doing things. Linguists capture their regularities in \"descriptive rules\" – that is, rules that describe how people speak and understand. A subset of these conventions is less widespread and natural, but has become accepted by a smaller community of literate speakers for use in public forums such as government, journalism, literature, business, and academia. These conventions are \"prescriptive rules\" – rules that prescribe how one ought to speak and write in these forums. Unlike the descriptive rules, many of the prescriptive rules have to be stated explicitly, because they are not second nature to most writers: the rules may not apply in the spoken vernacular, or they may be difficult to implement in complicated sentences which tax the writer's memory. This raises the question of how a careful writer can distinguish a legitimate rule of usage from a tall tale. The answer: look it up. Pinker includes a short guide to a hundred of the most commonly raised issues of grammar, word usage, and punctuation. (For Pinker's Top 10 list, see )\n\n\"The Sense of Style\" won Plain English Campaign's International Award for 2014, and was ranked among the best books of 2014 by \"The Economist\", \"The Sunday Times\", and Amazon. It received mainly positive reviews from several major publications, including \"The New York Times\", \"Scientific American\", and \"The Washington Post\", and a negative review from \"The New Yorker\". \"The Telegraph\" states Pinker \"doesn't have anything new to say\" and criticizes Pinker for allegedly \"logrolling\" in his choice of which authors to quote.\n\n"}
{"id": "25175562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25175562", "title": "Virtual International Authority File", "text": "Virtual International Authority File\n\nThe Virtual International Authority File (VIAF) is an international authority file. It is a joint project of several national libraries and operated by the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC).\n\nDiscussion about having a common international authority started in the late 1990s. After a series of failed attempts to come up with a unique common authority file, the new idea was to link existing national authorities. This would present all the benefits of a common file without requiring a large investment of time and expense in the process.\n\nThe project was initiated by the US Library of Congress (LC), the German National Library (DNB) and the OCLC on August 6, 2003. The Bibliothèque nationale de France (BnF) joined the project on October 5, 2007.\n\nThe project transitioned to being a service of the OCLC on April 4, 2012.\n\nThe aim is to link the national authority files (such as the German Name Authority File) to a single virtual authority file. In this file, identical records from the different data sets are linked together. A VIAF record receives a standard data number, contains the primary \"see\" and \"see also\" records from the original records, and refers to the original authority records. The data are made available online and are available for research and data exchange and sharing. Reciprocal updating uses the Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH) protocol.\n\nThe file numbers are also being added to Wikipedia biographical articles and are incorporated into Wikidata.\n\nVIAF's clustering algorithm is run every month. As more data are added from participating libraries, clusters of authority records may coalesce or split, leading to some fluctuation in the VIAF identifier of certain authority records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30704572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30704572", "title": "William White (Bishop of Honan)", "text": "William White (Bishop of Honan)\n\nThe Rt Rev William Charles White (22 August 1873 – 24 January 1960), DD, FRCS was an Anglican missionary bishop to China and later an academic specializing in Chinese study. He was the first bishop of Henan. In addition to his missionary work he was a great collector of Chinese artifacts. A majority of his collection are the foundation for the Chinese collections at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto, Canada.\n\nWilliam C. White was born in Devonshire, England, August 22, 1873. Little is known about his early childhood in England. He was known as Will in his early years, and was an outgoing child with dark hair and bright blue eyes. In 1880, his father emigrated to Canada in search of a more stable future for his family. In 1881, Will White, his mother and siblings, sailed to the new world and met their father in Norwood, Ontario. Will attended the public school and assisted his father in the labors (his father was a mason and contractor by trade). Norwood was a booming town and boasted a number of churches, stores and sports teams. Norwood would be a place of comparison for White the rest of his life, as he recognized the importance each building and group of people played in his life.\n\nWhite's boundless energy and an interest in improving the lives of children, moved him to first to Kingston, Ontario where he began a career with the YMCA and later to Ottawa, Ontario(around 1892). He eventually rose to the position of administrator at the YMCA which proved an excellent training ground for his future career as a missionary. At the YMCA he was in charge of planning meetings, conferences and public programing, soliciting funds and meeting with influential people, in an effort to share the mission of the YMCA with the greater community.\n\nIn his spare time he was enraptured by the developments in photography. He would spend a number of hours a week taking pictures and developing his own negatives. Unfortunately, his superiors at the YMCA suggested he do something more productive with his time. He put away his camera (but only temporarily as he would find use for it again in China). His next interest centered around cycling. Bicycles were an easy mode of transportation at the turn of the twentieth century and White was ecstatic to spend hours biking through the countryside around Ottawa visiting families and soliciting donations for the YMCA. It may have been at one of these outings, or a meeting he hosted at the YMCA, that first piqued his interest in missionary work.\n\nInitially, White wanted to join fellow missionaries in Africa. But his mother's refusal to support him held off his application until the end of 1893. At which point, the missionary program which White applied to collapsed under financial and political strains. He was saddened by the loss of opportunity, but continued on with his work in Ottawa. Soon another opportunity arose, this time in China. He was invited to go to China with the Stewart family, an establish missionary family in Fukien, but he declined as he felt he was not yet ready to leave Canada. This was a small blessing for White, as in 1895 the whole family was massacred in Fukien. It was at this point that White decided he was ready to embark on his missionary work, but felt his high school education inadequate for his career goals. After consulting with family and friends he enrolled in the Wycliffe College in Toronto.\n\nWill White enrolled in Wycliffe College in the spring of 1894, where he studied religion, languages and other academic fields. While at Wycliffe, White attended many lectures and mission programs put on by fellow missionaries around the college campus. He attended a number of services, in many denominations, so as to broaden his understanding of religion and the Bible. He also participated in local missions in Toronto and would have a \"square talk\" to anyone who asked. Will White's \"square talks\" became infamous among people who worked with him during his years at college. He had the ability to turn any conversation towards religion, establish the listener's confidence in him, bread down any resistance and relate intimate religious experiences through a matter of fact tone. His talks never embarrassed or created resentment among those who listened. More often than not, White inspired his listeners to embark on their own spiritual journey. Although his evangelism seemed to mellow as he aged, he never lost his passion for connecting people to a spiritual path. On May 31, 1896, William C. White was ordained deacon in St. Alban's Cathedral in Toronto. In October of the same year he was advised of his appointment to be the next missionary to China through the Missionary Society of Canada. In January 1897 he was advised to sail to China.\n\nHe was a Canadian Church Missionary in Fukien (Fujing) until 1909, however he was sent by the missionary society to survey areas throughout China. In 1909 he was recalled to Toronto and elevated to the rank of Bishop, at which point he returned to his work in China and became the first Bishop of Henan, a post he held for 25 years.\n\nOnce in China, White quickly learned local dialects, including Fukien dialect and slowly started to adopt the Chinese way of dress. Although his stature didn't fool anyone, he felt if he gave an effort to learn the language and dress in familiar garments, those around him would be more open to discussing church matters with him. In 1910 he arrived at his new headquarters in Kaifeng. His new station came with hefty responsibilities. Aware of his new station in the church, White pushed other people hard, as he had once been as a new missionary. During his tenure in Honan, White was responsible for the building of eleven churches, each with an ordained Chinese pastor. Although his primary focus was the building of the Anglican missions, he also made significant contributions to health programs, welfare and educational programs in local villages throughout Honan.\n\nStarting with the Chinese Revolution in 1911, the world around Honan started to change, although Bishop White seemed oblivious to it, he was probably aware of changing political scenes in the east, and west. After World War I, Bishop White felt he was nearing the end of his work. Although he had been collecting pieces of interest throughout his time in China, he turned his attention to collecting starting in the 1920s. By 1934, the church (including Bishop White) were being driven out of China by civil war and the Whites decided to return to Toronto.\n\nDuring White's time in China he learned a great deal of about Chinese art, religion, industry and traditional life. In 1924, while on leave in Toronto, White had a meeting with Charles T. Currelly, a charismatic archaeologist who had been charged with establishing a museum for the University of Toronto. This chance meeting and budding friendship lead to a decade long partnership in the pursuit of museum specimens.\n\nToday a number of the items in the Asian Galleries and collections at the ROM reflect Bishop White's commitment to preserving specimens that were reflective of his time in China. Artifacts range from pottery to art work and textiles. As well as parts of structures that were sent to Currelly for reconstruction in the museum.\n\nIn October 1897, Annie Ray, a fellow student and missionary with the Missionary Society of Canada, joined White in China. Prior to White's departure from Canada, they had hoped to be married, but forces kept them apart for most of 1897. They were married in Shanghai shortly after Annie arrived in China. The Whites were then sent to survey the province of Honan, one of the last provinces opened to the western world. The Whites had three children, Stewart, Gordon, and Mary. After the death of Annie, White's social and professional life became chaotic. By 1935 he had reestablished a connection with another missionary, Daisy Masters, and they were married in Quebec City later that year. Upon his return to Toronto, the Whites hoped to establish a home of refuge from the busy schedules of both Will and Daisy. They purchased a small cottage in Niagara-on-the-Lake where they would take weekend and summer rest-bits from the city.\n\nUpon his permanent return to Toronto in 1935 until his retirement 1948, White was Professor of Chinese Studies at the University of Toronto. He died on 24 January 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19556229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19556229", "title": "Wordia", "text": "Wordia\n\nWordia is an online visual dictionary which has the published aim of 'redefining the dictionary'. It asks members of the public and celebrity 'orators' to upload videos explaining what words mean to them. The videos are then published on the site alongside the traditional textual definition sourced from the Collins English Dictionary.\n\nThe site was founded in 2008 by TV producer Ed Baker, backed by the online entrepreneur Michael Birch and launched at the house of Doctor Johnson, the man behind the first modern dictionary.\n\nIts founders and others have extolled the benefits of having different dictionaries for different audiences. Some parties in the UK have argued Wordia's democratic approach will undermine the quality of the definitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "233058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233058", "title": "World Leaders", "text": "World Leaders\n\nWorld Leaders, also known as Chiefs of State and Cabinet Members of Foreign Governments, is a public domain directory published weekly by the United States Central Intelligence Agency. It lists different state officials for each country of the world: the head of state and/or head of government and other cabinet ministers, the chief of the central bank, and the ambassadors to the United Nations and the United States.\n\n\n"}
