{"id": "14993145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14993145", "title": "Alex Krieps", "text": "Alex Krieps\n\nDr Alexandre Krieps (born 25 June 1946 in Guildford, United Kingdom) is a Luxembourgish politician for the Democratic Party (DP). He is a member of the Chamber of Deputies, representing the Centre constituency, where the DP is strongest. He was first elected in 1999, but lost his seat in the 2004 election, in which the DP fared poorly. He returned to the Chamber on 10 October 2006, replacing Niki Bettendorf upon Bettendorf's resignation.\n\nKrieps was born in Guildford, Surrey, when his father, fellow politician and resistance leader Émile Krieps, was posted in the United Kingdom in the aftermath the Second World War.\n\nHe is currently President of the Luxembourg Rugby Federation, a position that he had previously held from 1985 to 1992. He is a general practitioner by trade.\n\n"}
{"id": "59211640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59211640", "title": "American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology", "text": "American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology\n\nThe American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (abbreviated ABOG) is a non-profit organization that provides board certification for practicing obstetricians and gynecologists in the United States and Canada. It was founded in 1927 and is based in Dallas, Texas. It is one of 24 medical boards recognized by the American Board of Medical Specialties.\n\nThe board was the center of controversy in 2013, when it issued a directive requiring its certified OB-GYNs to not treat male patients in order to retain their certification. This directive allowed OB-GYNs to treat men only in a small number of situations, such as if the man was involved in \"active government service\" or was undergoing a fertility evaluation. The board partially reversed its decision in response to criticism later that year, and the following January, it completely eliminated restrictions on its members' abilities to treat men.\n"}
{"id": "53598094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53598094", "title": "Angiosome", "text": "Angiosome\n\nAn angiosome is an area of skin and underlying tissues vascularized by a source artery. It is a concept that is used by plastic surgeons for the creation of perforator flaps and by interventional radiologists for the endovascular treatment of critical limb ischemia.\n"}
{"id": "25586904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25586904", "title": "Apex location", "text": "Apex location\n\nApex location is a method of determining the length of the root canal of a tooth - manually or with a mechanical canal instrument that passes a low intensity electric current through the tooth.\n\nThe electrical characteristics of the tooth structure are measured and the exact position of the instrument in the tooth is determined. When the tool tip touches the top of the tooth, the instrument signals that the apical foramen is reached. Whenever the channel instrument is pulled out its length can be measured to determine the depth of the root canal and all other dental tools can be adjusted to this length.\n\nThe method of Sonada measures the canal's impedance using one or more electric frequencies. The method tracks the penetration of the instrument in the canal. It is unreliable though in the presence of fluid in the canal which requires additional drying.\n\nThe method of Kobayashi performs a calculation of the ratio of the measured impedance of two or more electric frequencies. The method is highly accurate in the presence of fluid in the root canal. The method does not provide good monitoring of the penetration before reaching the apex. This method faces difficulties when working in a dry canal. Therefore the canal should be moistened. After measurement the canal should be dried.\n\nThe Adaptive method of measurement is implemented by the so-called electronic apex locator. In the process of penetrating the instrument makes continuous measurements and selects a suitable method of measurement. In case of dry canal the device uses the method of Sonada. In case of wet canal the device automatically adjusts the measurement method of Kobayashi. The adaptive method is highly accurate and does not require moistening or drying the canal.\n\n"}
{"id": "57375305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57375305", "title": "Attributable fraction for the population", "text": "Attributable fraction for the population\n\nIn epidemiology, attributable fraction for the population (AFp) is the proportion of incidents in the population that are attributable to the risk factor. Term attributable risk percent for the population is used if the fraction is expressed as a percentage. It is calculated as formula_1, where formula_2 is the incidence in the population, and formula_3 is the incidence in the unexposed group.\n\nEquivalently it can be calculated as formula_4, where formula_5is the exposed proportion of the population and formula_6 is the relative risk not adjusted for confounders.\n\nIt is used when an exposure increases the risk, as opposed to reducing it, in which case its symmetrical notion is preventable fraction for the population.\n\nMultiple synonyms of the attributable fraction for the population are in use: attributable proportion for the population, population attributable proportion, Levin's attributable risk, population attributable risk, population attributable fraction.\n\nSimilarly, population attributable risk percent (PAR) is used as a synonym for the attributable risk percent for the population.\n\nAttributable fraction for the population combines both the relative risk of an incident with respect to the factor, as well as the prevalence of the factor in the population. Values of AF close to 1 indicate that both the relative risk is high, and that the risk factor is prevalent. In such case, removal of the risk factor will greatly reduce the number of the incidents in the population. The values of AF close to 0, on the other hand, indicate that either the relative risk is low, or that the factor is not prevalent (or both). Removal of such factor from the population will have little effect. Because of this interpretation, the AFp is well suited for the public policy making.\n\nFor example, in 1953 Levin's paper it was estimated that lung cancer has relative risk of 3.6 - 13.4 in smokers compared to non-smokers, and that the proportion of the population exposed to smoking was 0.5 - 0.96, resulting in the high value of attributable fraction for the population 0.56 - 0.92. \n\nAttributable fraction for the population can be generalized to the case where the multilevel exposure to the risk factor. In such case\n\nformula_7where formula_8is the proportion of the population exposed to the level formula_9, formula_10is the desired (ideal) proportion of the population exposed to the level formula_9, and formula_12is the relative risk at exposure level formula_9.\n\n"}
{"id": "1996610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1996610", "title": "Backwashing (water treatment)", "text": "Backwashing (water treatment)\n\nIn terms of water treatment, including water purification and sewage treatment, backwashing refers to pumping water backwards through the filters media, sometimes including intermittent use of compressed air during the process. Backwashing is a form of preventive maintenance so that the filter media can be reused. In water treatment plants, backwashing can be an automated process that is run by local programmable logic controllers (PLCs). The backwash cycle is triggered after a set time interval, when the filter effluent turbidity is greater than a treatment guideline or when the differential pressure (head loss) across the filter exceeds a set value.\n\nWater treatment filters that can be backwashed include rapid sand filters, pressure filters and granular activated carbon (GAC) filters. Diatomaceous earth filters are backwashed according to the proprietary arrangement of pumps, valves and filters associated with the filtration system. Slow sand filters and self-cleaning screen filters employ mechanisms other than backwashing to remove trapped particles. To keep water treatment filters functional, they have to be cleaned periodically to remove particulates. Ineffective backwashing is one of the main reasons that water treatment filters fail.\n\nBackwashing of granular media filters involves several steps. First, the filter is taken off line and the water is drained to a level that is above the surface of the filter bed. Next, compressed air is pushed up through the filter material causing the filter bed to expand breaking up the compacted filter bed and forcing the accumulated particles into suspension. After the air scour cycle, clean backwash water is forced upwards through the filter bed continuing the filter bed expansion and carrying the particles in suspension into backwash troughs suspended above the filter surface. In some applications, air and water streams are simultaneously pushed upwards through the granular media followed by a rinse water wash. Backwashing continues for a fixed time, or until the turbidity of the backwash water is below an established value. At the end of the backwash cycle, the upward flow of water is terminated and the filter bed settles by gravity into its initial configuration. Water to be filtered is then applied to the filter surface until the filter clogs and the backwash cycle needs to be repeated.\n\nSome water treatment filters use surface wash systems that break up the heavily clogged, granular media surface layer. Surface wash systems are buried in the top of the filter media or are suspended above the filter media surface. John R. Baylis developed a fixed grid system which consisted of pipes with nozzles that injected jets of water into the filter material during expansion. Rotating arms use jets of water to break up the clogged filter surface and to rotate a movable arm through the filter material. A surface wash step in a backwash cycle usually takes place at the beginning of the filter bed cleaning process.\n\nSpent backwash water is either discharged without treatment to a sanitary sewer system or is treated and recycled within the plant. Historically, backwash water was discharged directly to surface water supplies; however, direct discharge is now highly regulated through NPDES discharge permits and is often discouraged. Used backwash water contains high concentrations of particulate material. Typical treatment processes include coagulation, flocculation and sedimentation. High molecular weight synthetic organic polymers are sometimes added to facilitate the formation of settleable floc. Failure of a backwash treatment process and reintroduction of the resulting poor quality water into the main water purification plant flow stream can cause overall process upsets and result in the production of poor quality treated drinking water.\n\nAs a water conservation measure, many water purification plants recycle filter backwash water and other product streams from sludge treatment processes back to the beginning of the plant. On June 8, 2001, the USEPA released a final regulation governing acceptable practices for recycling backwash water. The purpose of the regulation was to improve the control of microbial contaminants such as \"Cryptosporidium\" by reducing the potential for recycled product streams to upset the removal efficiency of the main treatment processes. The regulation requires that spent filter backwash water be recycled to the front of the treatment plant so that all available particle removal treatment processes can be employed to remove the microbial and particulate material from the backwash water.\n\n"}
{"id": "35272173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35272173", "title": "BeingGirl", "text": "BeingGirl\n\nBeingGirl is a \"kid-friendly\" web site targeted at adolescent girls created in 2000 by consumer goods company Procter & Gamble (P&G).\n\nIt provides information and advice. It is also a marketing tool.\n\nThe site was created in 2000, with P&G including content provided by experts. Its development was led by the company's Tampax brand and feminine care group. Forums were later added, in order to build interest. This enables girls to discuss things with each other, facilitating more subtle and effective marketing by the company. Company representatives \"play an active role\" in this user-generated content.\n\n, the website was available in 25 countries. Its content editor in 2005 was author Marcia Byalick.\n\nThe site provides information and expert advice on topical self care issues such as menstruation, eating disorders, acne and dating, by taking a \"big-sister approach\". Features such as self-discovery quizzes are also included. It also advertises some of the company's products and has offered free samples from Always and Tampax. The information is provided using \"cool teenage-girl vocabulary\".\n\nIn addition to offering advice, the site gathers information from questions asked anonymously by visitors. This is used for inbound internet marketing of its products, being judged by co-author of social technologies book \"Groundswell\", Josh Bernoff, as being four times as cost-effective as advertising. The site facilitates data collection and market testing. Sociologist Adam Arvidsson, writing in 2006, analysed the site's premise as being that \"engagement in community-like interaction will generate emotional and experiential ties\" in consumers. They will consequently relate positively to the brand, which will raise the brand's equity.\n\nThe authors and publishers of 2006 novel \"Cathy's Book\" agreed with P&G to include references to the CoverGirl makeup line in exchange for promoting the book on BeingGirl. No monetary payment was involved. The references were deleted in the novel's paperback edition. Also in 2006, Sony BMG partnered with P&G to feature its artists on the site. David G. Knox, a teenage market specialist in P&G's beauty division said that they approached Sony in order for teens to associate their brands with stars such as singer-songwriter Teddy Geiger.\n\nThe Taiwan site attracted 6000 registered members in the three months since launch in 2002. , it was receiving in excess of hits worldwide per month. Its \"successful engagement of teen girls\" has been largely attributed to the company \"stay[ing] in the background\". Its Indian site was launched in 2006, which Nikhil Pahwa on the \"contentsutra\" blog observed to \"lack the freedom of a social networking space\", such as Hindustan Unilever's Sunsilk Gang of Girls. Writing in 2006, Sheth and Sisodia noted that the open discussion (in real life) by teenage girls of feminine hygiene products may be difficult in some countries.\n\nIn 2011, the charity Mothers' Union criticised the site for being \"clearly a marketing tool\" and Rebecca Morgan of the London Feminist Network linked references to hair removal and erotic underwear with the sexualisation of childhood. Research fellow at the University of York, Dr Merran Toerien, criticised the site's attitude in advertising to such a young age group.\n\nSome reviewers evaluated the health content as being \"useful and well presented\", although concern was expressed about the number of product mentions. Some of the weight-loss tips were seen by some as \"enabling eating-disorder behavior\".\n\nA P&G spokeswoman said that the site's \"broader personal wellbeing educational scheme was strongly supported by schools\".\n"}
{"id": "50555722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50555722", "title": "Berman Medical Library", "text": "Berman Medical Library\n\nBerman Medical Library is located in the Ein Kerem Campus of the Hebrew University. The library provides services to the research staff and the students of the Faculties of medicine, pharmacy, nursing, dentistry, public health and occupational therapy, and the clinical-academic staff in the Hadassah Medical Center. \n\nBerman Medical Library was founded in 1919 with great help of Dr. Julius Jarcho, a consulting gynecologist of Beth Israel and Sydenham Hospitals. In 1930 the library was named in his honour, \"The Dr. Julius Jarcho Medical Library.\" In the early days the library served as the central medical library in Israel, with branches across the country. In 1966 the Library merged with the Hadassah Medical Center. In 1975 the library moved to its current building, donated by Muriel and Philip Berman of Allentown, Pennsylvania. Since about 2000 the library has also included a medical history museum. Since 2003 the library has been administratively incorporated in the University Library Authority.\n\nDr. Siegfried Plaschkes was the creator of the medical history museum. The Museum was transferred to the Berman Medical Library at the beginning of the millennium. It contains collections of Hebrew amulets, medals, ex-libris, medical stamps, a number of ancient instruments, and more. The collection of historical works and literature is the most significant in the country. The collection donated by Dr. Süssman Muntner, dealing primarily with Maimonides. \n\nThe Division of the History of Medicine is located within Berman Medical Library. Prof. Joshua O. Leibowitz (1895-1993) was the first head of the division. Prof. Joshua O. Leibowitz was for several years the President of the International Academy of the History of Medicine. His follower, Prof. (emeritus) was the second head, from 1975 till 2000. The Division is now headed by Dr. Otniel Dror, MD, PhD. The unit provides teaching, ongoing research, and tutoring of MD and PhD theses.\n\n"}
{"id": "52922986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52922986", "title": "Birth as an American Rite of Passage", "text": "Birth as an American Rite of Passage\n\nBirth as an American Rite of Passage is a book written by Robbie Davis-Floyd and published in 1992. It combines anthropology and first-hand accounts from mothers and doctors into a critical analysis of childbirth in America from a feminist perspective. \n\nIt introduces the theme of technocratic medicine as a form of indoctrination into America's patriarchal culture. Davis-Floyd argues that American birthing practices value science over nature, a doctor's knowledge over that of the mother and that many common actions performed by doctors (or the mother) are technocratic rituals – behaviors with limited practical purpose. She cites practices such as obstructing the mother's line of sight to the baby exiting her body by placing a sheet over her lower body. Davis-Floyd believes that society, intimidated by women's ability to give birth, has designed unnecessary rituals in order to make the symbolism of childbirth available to everyone, not just those who can bear children. \"In this way,\" she writes, \"society symbolically demonstrates ownership of its product.\"\n\nMajor life transitions are often ritualized in a way that is local to a particular society or culture. Pregnancy and childbirth are processes that reflect the traditions, beliefs, and values of the culture in which they take place. Davis-Floyd argues that the emphasis on technological advances that aid pregnancy, create a negative effect surrounding its ideology. The book argues that American society values the knowledge of medical professionals over that of mothers and midwives. Davis-Floyd's model criticizes current tocology and childbirth as overly scientific, technology-motivated methods that can serve to disempower women. Certain medical procedures such as a cesarean section, episiotomy, and the positioning of the woman at the time of birth, are viewed as optimal in American birthing culture. Davis-Floyd argues that these procedures are mainly a result of cultural beliefs, and not for their actual benefits. The same is true of the perception that pregnancy and childbirth require medical oversight and interference. Davis-Floyd claims that the majority of women's favorable views of technological intervention during childbirth are due to doctors' influence. Obstetric procedures act as rituals for pregnant women and medical personnel, with the intention of improving the attitudes of those involved in birthing. For example, when fluids are administered through intravenous therapy, a feeling of security is invoked; a reassuring order is imposed on the event, reinforcing reliance upon others' knowledge.\n\nThe concept of a rite of passage was coined by ethnographer Arnold van Gennep. Davis-Floyd states that birth as a rite of passage incorporates three essential stages. Through birth, the treatment of the woman's body, and the doctor's implementation of procedures, the rite is enacted within American culture.\n\nThe three stages are separation, pregnancy and reincorporation. These three stages characterize the rite of passage and are culturally relative to the society within which they function. In some cases four stages apply, and in rare cases, up to ten. However, such cases have never been recorded.\n\nSeparation: A phase during which the pregnant woman begins to form a new self-identity as a result of her pregnancy. She separates from her original state of being. In this stage, the woman is now an \"other\", unlike her old self.\n\nPregnancy: A phase where the pregnant woman is \"in between\". She is neither a normal member of society nor a mother. This stage continues until after the birth.\n\nIntegration: The woman accepts her new social identity. This phase ends when the woman feels that she is similar to her previous self.\n\nReviews of this book praised Davis-Floyd for connecting American childbirth with rituals using an anthropological basis. The book also received criticism for basing its conclusions on interviews with only 100 women who were all well-educated, middle-class and Caucasian.\n"}
{"id": "6975389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6975389", "title": "Born in Bradford", "text": "Born in Bradford\n\nBorn in Bradford is a large birth cohort study based at Bradford Royal Infirmary, a hospital in the city of Bradford, West Yorkshire in the United Kingdom. 12,500 pregnant women were recruited to the study between March 2007 and December 2010. The lives of their 13,500 children are being tracked through research studies and the use of routinely collected medical and educational data.\n\nBradford has some of the highest rates of childhood illness in the UK. Born in Bradford is helping to unravel the reasons for this ill health and bring new scientific discovery to the world. It is also providing a catalyst for communities to work with the NHS and local authority to improve child health and wellbeing in the city. Examples of the success of Born in Bradford in changing practice include: the establishment of a Yorkshire wide congenital anomalies register, the first trust in the UK to provide gestational diabetes screening for all pregnant women in the district, improvement in vitamin D supplementation in high risk mothers, rapid implementation of NICE guidelines in midwifery practice, improved detection of childhood obesity by health visitors, and development of a simple mobile phone app to help parents and health professionals monitor children's weight.\n\nBorn in Bradford will continue to follow children until they are adults, and help doctors to understand more about the big health challenges of the 21st century such as heart disease, mental health and cancer. This is a study that has the potential to promote real change at a local level and also to make major contributions to global knowledge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57944051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57944051", "title": "CBC Bank Building, Kiama", "text": "CBC Bank Building, Kiama\n\nCBC Bank is a heritage-listed former bank building at 16-20 Manning Street, Kiama, Municipality of Kiama, New South Wales, Australia. It was designed by Mansfield Bros and built by White and Coghill in 1880. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nThe building was built in 1880 for the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, with Mansfield Bros. as the architect and Sydney contractors White and Coghill as builders. It was described at its establishment by \"The Kiama Independent and Illawarra and Shoalhaven Advertiser\" as \"likely to be one of the principal ornaments of Kiama\".\n\nThe CBC Bank shifted to new premises in Terralong Street 1969.\n\nIn 1979 Mr & Mrs Roslyn McKinnon, owners of the CBC Bank, nominated it for a Permanent Conservation Order. At that time the front of the building was occupied by a solicitors practice, the rear was occupied by a veterinary surgeon and the upstairs was let as a flat. The owners of the property were seeking protection under the Heritage Act for the building with a view to attracting rating and taxation benefits.\n\nAt its meeting of 14 January 1981 the Heritage Council recommended that a Permanent Conservation Order be placed over the former CBC Bank, Kiama.\n\nA Permanent Conservation Order was placed over the property on 17 July 1981.\n\nIt was transferred to the State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nIt now houses IT firm DropPoint.\n\nThe building falls within the Mansfield Genre of substantial and impressive two-storey Italianate-style banks consisting of ground floor banking chambers with first floor manager's residence. Materials are rendered brick and slate, and the building retains much of its original detail and joinery, little compromised by the various uses to which the former bank has been put.\n\nThe building retains much of its original detail and joinery.\n\nThe former CBC Bank was constructed in 1880 to designs of Mansfield Bros for Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Ltd. It comes within the Mansfield genre of substantial and impressive two-storey Italianate style banks. The building retains much of its original detail and joinery. Situated adjacent to the Bank of New South Wales building, also by Mansfield Bros and near Kiama Post Office and other early commercial and civic premises, the former CBC bank is an important component of Kiama's townscape and a reminder of the town's elegant past.\n\nCBC Bank was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nThe former CBC Bank was constructed to designs of Mansfield Bros for Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Ltd.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nIt comes within the Mansfield genre of substantial and impressive two-storey Italianate style banks. Situated adjacent to the Bank of New South Wales building, also by Mansfield Bros and near Kiama Post Office and other early commercial and civic premises, the former CBC bank is an important component of Kiama's townscape and a reminder of the town's elegant past.\n"}
{"id": "10799487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10799487", "title": "Carpal tunnel", "text": "Carpal tunnel\n\nIn the human body, the carpal tunnel or carpal canal is the passageway on the palmar side of the wrist that connects the forearm to the hand.\n\nThe tunnel is bounded by the bones of the wrist and flexor retinaculum from connective tissue. Normally several tendons from the flexor group of forearm muscles and the median nerve pass through it. There are described cases of variable median artery occurrence.\n\nThe canal is narrow, and when any of the nine long flexor tendons passing through it swell or degenerate, the narrowing of the canal may result in the median nerve becoming entrapped or compressed, a common medical condition known as carpal tunnel syndrome.\n\nThe carpal bones that make up the wrist form an arch which is convex on the dorsal side of the hand and concave on the palmar side. The groove on the palmar side, the \"sulcus carpi\", is covered by the flexor retinaculum, a sheath of tough connective tissue, thus forming the carpal tunnel. On the side of the radius, the flexor retinaculum is attached to the scaphoid bone, more precisely its tubercle, as well as the ridge of trapezium. On the ulnar side it is attached to the pisiform and hook of hamate.\n\nThe narrowest section of the tunnel is located a centimetre beyond the mid-line of the distal row of carpal bones where the sectional area is limited to 1.6 cm.\n\nThe tendons of the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus pass through a common ulnar sheath, while the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus passes through a separate radial sheath. The mesotendon shared by these tendons is attached to the radial and palmar walls of the carpal tunnel.\n\nSuperficial to the carpal tunnel and the flexor retinaculum, the ulnar artery and ulnar nerve pass through the ulnar tunnel/Guyon's canal.\n\nTen structures pass through the carpal tunnel, most of them flexor tendons (not the muscles themselves):\n\nThe flexor carpi radialis (one tendon), is often incorrectly stated to travel within the carpal tunnel. More precisely, it travels within the fibers of the flexor retinaculum which forms the roof of the carpal tunnel, rather than running inside the tunnel itself.\nMovements in the wrist affect the shape and width of the carpal tunnel. The width decreases considerably during normal range of motion in the wrist and because the carpal bones move in relation to each other with every motion of the hand the bony walls of the tunnel are not rigid. Both flexion and extension increase compression in the carpal tunnel.\n\n\nCarpal tunnel syndrome is a syndrome characterised by tingling burning and pain (needle, pin) through the course of median nerve particularly over the outer fingers and radiating up the arm, that is caused by compression of the carpal tunnel contents. It is associated with repetitive use, rheumatoid arthritis, and a number of other states. It can be detected using Tinel's sign and the Phalen maneuver. It may be treated non-surgically by splinting and/or corticosteroid injection, though definitive management often requires surgical division of the flexor retinaculum, which forms the roof of the carpal tunnel. Carpal tunnel symptoms can sometimes be caused by tight muscles in the neck and shoulder region.\n\n"}
{"id": "4466421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4466421", "title": "Clinical data repository", "text": "Clinical data repository\n\nA Clinical Data Repository (CDR) or Clinical Data Warehouse (CDW) is a real time database that consolidates data from a variety of clinical sources to present a unified view of a single patient. It is optimized to allow clinicians to retrieve data for a single patient rather than to identify a population of patients with common characteristics or to facilitate the management of a specific clinical department. Typical data types which are often found within a CDR include: clinical laboratory test results, patient demographics, pharmacy information, radiology reports and images, pathology reports, hospital admission, discharge and transfer dates, ICD-9 codes, discharge summaries, and progress notes.\n\nA Clinical Data Repository could be used in the hospital setting to track prescribing trends as well as for the monitoring of infectious diseases. One area CDR's could potentially be used is monitoring the prescribing of antibiotics in hospitals especially as the number of antiobiotic-resistant bacteria is ever increasing. In 1995, a study at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center conducted by the Harvard Medical School used a CDR to monitor vancomycin use and prescribing trends since vancomycin-resistant enterococci is a growing problem. They used the CDR to track the prescribing by linking the individual patient, medication, and the microbiology lab results which were all contained within the CDR. If the microbiology lab result did not support the use of vancomycin, it was suggested to change the medication to something appropriate as under the Center for Disease Control CDC guidelines. The use of CDR's could help monitor infectious diseases in the hospital and the appropriate prescribing based on lab results.\n\nThe use of Clinical Data Repositories could provide a wealth of knowledge about patients, their medical conditions, and their outcome. The database could serve as a way to study the relationship and potential patterns between disease progression and management. The term \"Medical Data Mining\" has been coined for this method of research. Past epidemiological studies may not have had as complete of information as that which is contained in a CDR, which could lead to inconclusive data/results. The use of medical data mining and correlative studies using the CDR could serve as a valuable resource helping the future of healthcare in all facets of medicine. The idea of data mining a CDW was used for screening variables that were associated with diabetes and poor glycemic control. It allowed for novel correlations that may have not been discovered without this method.\n\nOne potential use of a clinical data repository would be for clinical trials. This would allow for researchers to have all the information from a study in one place as well as let other researchers benefit from the data to further innovation. They would also be advantageous since they are digital and real-time. This would be easier to log data and keep it accurate since it would be digital rather than in paper form.\n\nThe clinical data repository is not without its weaknesses, however. Since they usually don't integrate with other non-clinical sources, following patient treatment across the care continuum becomes very difficult. In turn, tracking the true cost per case for each patient isn't feasible. IT teams spend most of their time gathering and compiling data instead of interpreting information and finding opportunities for cutting costs and improving patient care.\n"}
{"id": "10670955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10670955", "title": "Dignity Health St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center", "text": "Dignity Health St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center\n\nDignity Health St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center is a hospital in Phoenix, Arizona, USA, operated by Dignity Health. St. Joseph's is a 607-bed, not-for-profit hospital that provides a wide range of health, social and support services, with special advocacy for the poor and under served. It is home to the Barrow Neurological Institute, the world's largest dedicated neurosurgical center and a renowned leader in neurosurgical training, research, and patient care.\n\nSt. Joseph's is a center for tertiary care, medical education and research. It includes the Barrow Neurological Institute, the Heart & Lung Institute, and a Level I Trauma Center verified by the American College of Surgeons. The hospital is also a center for maternity care, orthopedics, oncology and many other medical services.\n\nThe Sisters of Mercy came to Phoenix in 1892 to open a parish school. They were successful in that endeavor, but were also affected deeply by the suffering of tuberculosis victims. Realizing the most pressing need of the community, the Sisters expanded their original mission and began fund-raising to be able to establish a sanitarium.\n\nTheir efforts paid off. They collected enough money to rent a six-bedroom brick cottage at Fourth and Polk Streets in January 1895. They equipped each room with two beds for tuberculosis patients and created quarters for themselves in the living room. St. Joseph's Sanitarium was born.\n\nTwo months later, the Sisters had raised sufficient funds to build a \"real hospital.\" On March 19, 1895, a stake was driven into the ground to mark the site of what would become a hospital housing 24 private rooms that opened onto porches.\n\nThrough the years, there were additions to that building, of course, and a devastating fire in 1917, after which the building was reconstructed in just 90 days. The rebuilt facility was adequate for the community for the next 30 years, but the local population was continuing to grow significantly. In 1930, the population of Phoenix was 48,118. By 1945, it had reached nearly 100,000. St. Joseph's Hospital needed a larger facility.\n\nIn the mid-1940s, the Sisters purchased of land at Third Avenue and Thomas Road which was then part of an old dairy farm. They were criticized for choosing land so far north of the city, literally out in the country. But the Sisters had foresight and a keen understanding of a good business deal. Those 10 acres cost just $25,000.\n\nIn November 1947, a fundraising campaign began to raise money to build the new hospital. The facility opened in July 1953.\n\nIn 2010, Bishop Thomas Olmsted revoked the hospital's affiliation with the Roman Catholic Church in a controversy over medical procedures and church teachings (see below).\n\nSt. Joseph's Hospital also has a Lung Transplant Program, which offers transplants to those individuals diagnosed with high-risk lung diseases. The program is offered through the Center of Thoracic Transplantation and has received accreditation from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). On April 13, 2007, the hospital performed the first recorded lung transplant in Phoenix, Arizona. Since then, more than 170 such transplants have been conducted by the program.\n\nSt. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center is home to the Barrow neurological institute (BNI), a nationally ranked program in neurology and neurosurgery. The BNI has the largest neurosurgery residency program in the United States, as of 2013. The current director of the BNI is vascular neurosurgeon Robert F. Spetzler, a position he has held since 1986.\n\nDignity Health currently supports 16 internal Institutional Review Boards providing oversight for more than 1,000 clinical trials across the system. Dignity's Human Research Protection Office provides for the regulatory and compliance oversight of all research conducted at Dignity.\n\nThe hospital in late 2009 had as a patient a mother of four who was 11 weeks pregnant and suffering from a severe case of pulmonary hypertension. Doctors estimated that her chance of dying if she continued the pregnancy was \"close to 100 percent\". An ethics board approved an abortion to save the life of the mother, even though the hospital was Catholic and within the Diocese of Phoenix. A religious sister, Sister Margaret Mary McBride, who was a vice president at the hospital and who concurred in the decision, was excommunicated by Thomas Olmsted, the Bishop of Phoenix. The case stirred intense debate from within and outside the area. McBride was later returned to good standing with the church, her religious community, and the hospital.\n\nBishop Olmsted asked Catholic Healthcare West to provide a moral analysis of the case. He later issued a decree on 21 December 2010 revoking the hospital's affiliation with the Catholic Church, after months of discussion had failed to induce the hospital management to refuse to perform similar abortions in the future. Olmsted wrote that he could not verify that the hospital provides health care consistent with \"authentic Catholic moral teaching.\"\n"}
{"id": "19116613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19116613", "title": "Dominica cuisine", "text": "Dominica cuisine\n\nDominica cuisine is the cuisine of the island nation of Dominica. The cuisine is rooted in creole techniques with local produce flavored by spices found on the island.\n\nDominica's cuisine is similar to many other Caribbean islands including that of Trinidad and St Lucia. Though separated by water Dominica and other Commonwealth Caribbean islands have distinct twists to their meals. \n\nBreakfast is an important meal in Dominica and is eaten every day. A typical meal includes saltfish, which is dried and salted codfish, and bakes made by making a dough and frying in oil prove popular before a long days at work. Saltfish and bakes can also double as fast food snacks that can be eaten throughout the day; vendors and Dominica's streets sell these snacks to passers-by alongside fried chicken, fish and tasty smoothies. Other breakfast meals include cornmeal porridge which is made with fine cornmeal or polenta, milk and condensed milk and sugar to sweeten. More British influenced meals like eggs, bacon and toast are also popular alongside fried fish and plantains. \n\nCommon vegetables eaten during lunchtime or dinner include plantains, tania, yams, potatoes, rice, and peas. Meat and poultry typically eaten include chicken (which is very popular), beef, fish which are normally stewed down with onions, carrots, garlic, ginger and herbs like thyme and using the browning method to create a rich dark sauce. Popular meals include rice and peas, Stew chicken, Stew beef, fried and stewed fish and many different types of hearty fish broths and Soups which are packed full with dumplings, carrots and ground provisions.\n\nRoadside stands and small-town restaurants typically serve fried chicken, fish-and-chips and \"tasty bakes\" which are fried dough made with flour, water and sugar or sometimes salt, along with cold drinks. The island produces numerous exotic fruits, including bananas, coconuts, papayas, guavas, pineapples, and mangoes which can be eaten as dessert and be pureed or liquefied.\n\nDominica's national dish is the mountain chicken, which are snares of the legs of a frog called the Crapaud, which is endemic to Dominica and Montserrat. Found at higher elevations, it's a protected species and can only be caught between autumn and February.\n\nRivers flowing down from the mountains provide Dominica with an abundant supply of freshwater. Drinks include rum punch and freshly made smoothies. \n\nDominica tea culture has a long history. Many traditional medicinal teas have origins with the original Carib culture of the island. Dominica brews its own beer under the Kubuli label.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13550043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13550043", "title": "European Congress of Radiology", "text": "European Congress of Radiology\n\nFounded in 1967, the European Congress of Radiology was first held every four years in different locations. However, the idea of developing a new type of congress became more intensively discussed as the quadrennial basis and the ever-changing location did not allow for the creation of a consistent group of experienced radiologists responsible for the preparation of the congress. Furthermore, the radiological community in Europe wanted to create a common platform for European radiologists.\n\nIn 1985, a committee chaired by Prof. Dr. Josef Lissner from Munich (Germany) was established to re-organise the Congress. They decided that it should take place every two years and that the location should not change. Vienna was soon selected, due to its geographical location in the heart of Europe. The society ‘Verein Europäischer Röntgenkongress’ (ECR) was founded, and a congress-organising institution was established at the Medical Academy of Vienna.\n\nThe first ‘new’ European Congress of Radiology was opened on Saturday, September 15, 1991 under the presidency of Prof. Dr. Lissner. It attracted more than 9,000 participants from around the world.\n\nThe two-year cycle of the congress was continued until 1999, when it was decided that the rapid development of the medical specialty of radiology required an annual meeting of Europe’s radiological community and all its partners.\n\nThe ESR has continued to develop and refine its congress ever since, turning it into the largest radiological meeting in Europe with more than 28,000 participants from around 100 countries and 4,000 scientific papers and exhibits. To answer growing demand, the ECR has developed advanced tools such as EPOS, an online electronic presentation system and ECR Online, providing coverage of the majority of sessions via live video streaming.\n\nEditions\n\nUpcoming Event\nDate: 27 February - 3 March 2019\nVenue: Bruno-Kreisky-Platz 1, 1220 Vienna, Austria\n\n"}
{"id": "10901851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10901851", "title": "Fellow of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians", "text": "Fellow of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians\n\nFellow of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians, abbreviated as the post-nominal initials FRACP, is a recognition of the completion of the prescribed postgraduate specialist training programme in internal adult or internal paediatric medicine of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians.\n\nThe fellowship training programme requires that prospective trainees are registered medical practitioners in Australia and/or New Zealand. Specifically, prospective trainees must have completed a medical degree; completed an intern year; been appointed to an accredited hospital by the College for basic training; discussed their application with, and received approval from, the accredited hospital or a Director of Physician Education. International medical graduates must complete the Australian Medical Council Certificate in addition to the aforementioned requirements.\n\nMultiple pathways lead to fellowship, but all pathways require significant amount of training, time and commitment and consist of three main stages:\n\nThe qualification of FRACP is awarded for training programmes in adult internal medicine and in paediatrics and child health. Both programmes have a similar structure, but the content and examinations are accordingly different.\n\nBasic training, formally the Royal Australasian College of Physicians's Physician Readiness for Expert Practice (PREP), consists of a series of 36 months of accredited hospital posts, approved by local directors of physician training. These posts encompass a variety of medical specialties; emergency medicine; and tertiary centre, regional, and rural hospital rotations.\n\nThe programme must contain prescribed proportions of the aforementioned areas and locations and is assessed by ongoing continuous assessment by the candidate's supervising physicians.\n\nBasic training is approximately equivalent to the internal medicine residency program in the United States or core medical training programme in the United Kingdom.\n\nAfter 24 months of basic training, trainees become eligible to sit the external RACP examinations. These consist of a written and a clinical examination. The written examination consists of multiple-choice questions and is held once a year in March. The clinical examination, consisting of two long cases and four short cases, is examined by two assessors (per case) and is held in July, after successful completion of the written exam. Both examinations must be successfully completed before a trainee may progress to advanced training.\n\nThe written examination is analogous to the board certification examination for internal medicine in the United States and the MRCP Part 1 and 2 (written) exams in the United Kingdom. Unlike the United States and United Kingdom examinations, however, the RACP examinations do not confer an award or qualification upon their successful completion; instead, the entire RACP programme must be successfully completed for the award and qualification of FRACP.\n\nThe RACP examinations are the primary hurdle to becoming a specialist physician and are noted for being among the most difficult specialty exams in the world, with an average first-attempt fail rate of approximately 50%.\n\nAdvanced training consists of a programme of 3–4 years, depending on the requirements of the specialty, of training in a specialty of the trainee's choosing. A trainee must meet the requirements of the specialty advisory group via undertaking, for instance, clinical training in hospital posts, research, or clinical training in overseas hospital posts or research overseas. Multiple specialisations and subspecialisations are possible, but this is associated with increases in training time.\n\nUnlike the United States, Canada, Europe, and the United Kingdom, most specialties do not require an exit examination.\n\nFellowship appears to be a highly regarded qualification, given the extended and rigorous training program,the wide experience & knowledge base, and general commitment required for its attainment. \n\nFellowship of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians(or its recognised equivalent) is a requirement to be recognised as a Specialist or Consultant Physician, in General (Internal) Medicine or the relevant subspecialty, in Australia and New Zealand. A formal complex process (for recognition of equivalence) is needed for specialists who possess overseas specialist qualifications but who do not possess the FRACP. The requirements change from time to time. External commentators, such as Mr Peter Garling, SC, have described these processes as 'onerous' during a 2008 statutory inquiry.\n\nFRACP or its recognised equivalent, in Australia, also allows some Physicians to be recognised as specialists within the Health Insurance Act 1973, and therefore charges incurred by patients when consulting them, may be reimbursed in whole or part by the Australian Government. In Australia, like in the UK and some other jurisdictions, the FRACP (and other fellowships) does not give the right to statutory registration as a medical practitioner: it is the basic medical degree which does.\n\nAccountability for the quality of the examination processes within the RACP is of the highest standard and widely envied by other similar International bodies. The clinical examination process requires rigorous calibration of all examiners (mandatory) and assessment of all candidates against the clinical skills required of Consultation Physicians in Australia - history taking, clinical analytical abilities and clinical Skills. Evaluation of the clinical examiners includes assessment by other (often more experienced) examiners and high level peer review (by at least 1 other examiner at a local level, and by 6-9 at the national level, always in combination). The National Examinations Panel (NEP) consist of 97 adult physicians selected by their prior examination performance and who represent the geographical spread and specialist range of clinical internal medicine skills in Australia and New Zealand.\n"}
{"id": "25674599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25674599", "title": "French National AIDS Council", "text": "French National AIDS Council\n\nThe French National AIDS Council (French: Conseil national du sida)) is an advisory body established in 1989 with a mission of “to offer its views on the problems faced by society as a result of AIDS and to make useful suggestions to the government”. \n\n"}
{"id": "1567681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1567681", "title": "Froth flotation", "text": "Froth flotation\n\nFroth flotation is a process for selectively separating hydrophobic materials from hydrophilic. This is used in mineral processing, paper recycling and waste-water treatment industries. Historically this was first used in the mining industry, where it was one of the great enabling technologies of the 20th century. It has been described as \"the single most important operation used for the recovery and upgrading of sulfide ores\". The development of froth flotation has improved the recovery of valuable minerals, such as copper- and lead-bearing minerals. Along with mechanized mining, it has allowed the economic recovery of valuable metals from much lower grade ore than previously.\n\nDescriptions of the use of a flotation process have been found in ancient Greek and Persian literature suggesting its antiquity. During the late nineteenth century, the process basics were discovered through a slow evolutionary phase; then, during the first decade of the twentieth century, a more rapid investigation of oils, froths, and agitation led to proven work-place applications, especially at Broken Hill, Australia, that brought the technological innovation known as “froth flotation.” During the early twentieth century, it truly and dramatically revolutionized -- an overworked term, but accurate here -- mineral processing around the globe.\n\nInitially, naturally occurring chemicals such as fatty acids and oils were used as flotation reagents in a large quantity to increase the hydrophobicity of the valuable minerals. Since then, the process has been adapted and applied to a wide variety of materials to be separated, and additional collector agents, including surfactants and synthetic compounds have been adopted for various applications.\n\nEnglishman William Haynes patented a process in 1860 for separating sulfide and gangue minerals using oil. Later writers have pointed to Haynes's as the first \"bulk oil flotation\" patent, though there is no evidence of its ever being field tested, let alone used commercially. While in 1877 the brothers Bessel (Adolph and August) of Dresden, Germany, introduced their commercially successful oil and froth flotation process for extracting graphite, considered by some the root of froth flotation. However, because the Bessel process was used on graphite not gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, etc, their work has been ignored by most historians of the technology. Seventy-seven year old inventor Hezekiah Bradford of Philadelphia imitated their work and patented a similar process in 1885. He had received his first patent in 1834, primarily invented machinery to separate slate from coal during the 1850s-1860s, and perfected the Bradford Breaker, still in use by the coal industry today, but it is uncertain if his 1885 patented \"flotation\" process was successfully introduced in the graphite deposits in nearby Chester County, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1885 Carrie Everson patented a process calling for oil[s] but also an acid or a salt, a significant step in the evolution of the process history. By 1890, tests of the Everson process had been made at Georgetown and Silver Cliff, Colorado, and Baker, Oregon. She abandoned the work with the death of her husband, and before perfecting a commercial successful process. Later, during the height of legal disputes over the validity or not of various patents during the 1910s, Everson's was often pointed to as the initial flotation patent -- which would have meant that the process was not patentable again by later contestants. Much confusion has been clarified recently by historian Dawn Bunyak.\n\nThe generally recognized first successful commercial flotation process for \"mineral\" sulphides was invented by Frank Elmore who worked on the development with his brother, Stanley. The Glasdir copper mine at Llanelltyd, near Dolgellau in North Wales was bought in 1896 by the Elmore brothers in conjunction with their father, William. In 1897, the Elmore brothers installed the world's first industrial size commercial flotation process for mineral beneficiation at the Glasdir mine. The process was not froth flotation but used oil to agglomerate (make balls of) pulverised sulphides and buoy them to the surface, and was patented in 1898 with a description of the process published in 1903 in the \"Engineering and Mining Journal\". By this time they had recognized the importance of air bubbles in assisting the oil to carry away the mineral particles. The Elmores had formed a company known as the Ore Concentration Syndicate Ltd to promote the commercial use of the process worldwide. Charles Butters of Berkeley, California, acquired American rights to Elmores' process, and developed what was known to contemporaries as the \"Butters Process\". Butters, an expert on the cyanide process, tried lab test of the Elmore process on gold ores without success. \n\nHowever developments elsewhere, particularly in Broken Hill, Australia by Minerals Separation, Limited, led to decades of hard fought legal battles and litigations which, ultimately, were lost as the Elmore process was superseded by more advanced techniques. Another flotation process was independently invented in the early 1900s in Australia by Charles Vincent Potter and around the same time by Guillaume Daniel Delprat.\n\nYet another process was developed in 1902 by Cattermole, who emulsified the pulp with a small quantity of oil, subjected it to violent agitation, then slow stirring which coagulated the target minerals into nodules which were separated from the pulp by gravity. The Minerals Separation Ltd., formed in Britain in 1903 to acquire the Cattermole patent, found that it proved unsuccessful. Metallurgists on the staff continued to test and combine other discoveries to patent in 1905 their process, called the Sulman-Picard-Ballot process after company officers and patentees. The process proved successful at their Central Block plant, Broken Hill that year. Significant in their \"agitation froth flotation\" process was the use of less than 1% oil and an agitation step that created small bubbles, which provided more surface to capture the metal and float into to a froth at the surface.\n\nMineral Separation also bought other patents to consolidate ownership of any potential conflicting rights to the flotation process--except for the Elmore patents. In 1910, when the Zinc Corporation replaced its Elmore process with the Minerals Separation (Sulman-Picard-Ballot) froth flotation process at its Broken Hill plant, the primacy of the Minerals Separation over other process contenders was assured. Henry Livingston Sulman was later recognized by his peers in his election as President of the British Institution of Mining and Metallurgy, which also awarded him its gold medal. \n\nDevelopments in the United States had been less than spectacular. Butters's failures, as well as others, was followed after 1904, with Scotsman Stanley MacQuisten's process (a surface tension based method), which was developed with a modicum of success in Nevada and Idaho, but this would not work when slimes were present, a major fault. Henry E. Wood of Denver had developed his flotation process along the same lines in 1907, patented 1911, with some success on molybdenum ores. For the most part, however, these were isolated attempts without fanfare for what can only be called marginal successes. \n\nIn 1911, James M. Hyde, a former employee of Minerals Separation, Ltd., modified the Minerals Separation process and installed a test plant in the Butte and Superior Mill in Basin, Montana, the first such installation in the USA. In 1912, he designed the Butte & Superior zinc works, Butte, Montana, the first great flotation plant in America. Minerals Separation, Ltd., which had set up an office in San Francisco, sued Hyde for infringement as well as the Butte & Superior company, both cases were eventually won by the firm in the U. S. Supreme Court. Daniel Cowan Jackling and partners, who controlled Butte & Superior, also refuted the Minerals Separation patent and funded the ensuing legal battles that lasted over a decade. They -- Utah Copper (Kennecott), Nevada Consolidated, Chino Copper, Ray Con and other Jackling firms -- eventually settled, in 1922, paying a substantial fee for licenses to use the Minerals Separation process. One unfortunate result of the dispute was professional divisiveness among the mining engineering community for a generation.\n\nIn 1913, the Minerals Separation paid for a test plant for the Inspiration Copper Company at Miami, Arizona. Built under the San Francisco office director, Edward Nutter, it proved a success. Inspiration engineer L. D. Ricketts ripped out a gravity concentration mill and replaced it with the Minerals Separation process, the first major use of the process at an American copper mine. A major holder of Inspiration stock were men who controlled the great Anaconda mine of Butte. They immediately followed the Inspiration success to build a Minerals Separation licensed plant at Butte, in 1915-1916, a major statement about the final acceptance of the Minerals Separation patented process. \n\nJohn M. Callow, of General Engineering of Salt Lake City, had followed flotation from technical papers and the introduction in both the Butte and Superior Mill, and at Inspiration Copper in Arizona and determined that mechanical agitation was a drawback to the existing technology. Introducing a porous brick with compressed air, and a mechanical stirring mechanism, Callow applied for a patent in 1914 (some say that Callow, a Jackling partisan, invented his cell as a means to avoid paying royalties to Minerals Separation, which firms using his cell eventually were forced to do by the courts). This method, known as Pneumatic Flotation, was recognized as an alternative to the Minerals Separation process of flotation concentration. The American Institute of Mining Engineers presented Callow the James Douglas Gold Medal in 1926 for his contributions to the field of flotation. By that time, flotation technology was changing, especially with the discovery of the use of xanthates and other reagents, which made the Callow cell and his process obsolete.\n\nMontana Tech professor Antoine Marc Gaudin defined the early period of flotation as the mechanical phase while by the late 1910s it entered the chemical phase. Discoveries in reagents, especially the use of xanthates patented by Minerals Separations chemist Cornelius H. Keller, not so much increased the capture of minerals through the process as making it far more manageable in day to day operations. Minerals Separation's initial flotation patents ended 1923, and new ones for chemical processes gave it a significant position into the 1930s. During this period the company also developed and patented flotation processes for iron out of its Hibbing lab and of phosphate in its Florida lab. Another rapid phase of flotation process innovation did not occur until after 1960.\n\nIn the 1960s the froth flotation technique was adapted for deinking recycled paper.\n\nThe success of the process is evinced by the number of claimants as \"discoverers\" of flotation. In 1961, American engineers celebrated \"50 years of flotation\" and enshrined James Hyde and his Butte & Superior mill. In 1977, German engineers celebrated the \"hundredth anniversary of flotation\" based on the brothers Bessel patent of 1877. The historic Glasdir copper mine site advertises its tours in Wales as site of the \"discovery of flotation\" based upon the Elmore brothers work. Recent writers, because of the interest in celebrating women in science, champion Carrie Everson of Denver as mother of the process based on her 1885 patent. Omitted from this list are the engineers, metallurgists and chemists of Minerals Separation, Ltd., which, at least in the American and Australian courts, won control of froth flotation patents as well as right of claimant as discoverers of froth flotation. But, as historian Martin Lynch writes, \"Mineral Separation would eventually prevail after taking the case to the US Supreme Court [and the House of Lords], and in so doing earned for itself the cordial detestation of many in the mining world.\"\n\nFroth flotation is a process for separating minerals from gangue by taking advantage of differences in their hydrophobicity. Hydrophobicity differences between valuable minerals and waste gangue are increased through the use of surfactants and wetting agents. The selective separation of the minerals makes processing complex (that is, mixed) ores economically feasible. The flotation process is used for the separation of a large range of sulfides, carbonates and oxides prior to further refinement. Phosphates and coal are also upgraded (purified) by flotation technology.\n\nPrior to 1907, nearly all the copper mined in the US came from underground vein deposits, averaging 2.5 percent copper. By 1991, the average grade of copper ore mined in the US had fallen to only 0.6 percent.\n\nThe flotation process is also widely used in industrial waste water treatment plants, where it removes fats, oil, grease and suspended solids from waste water. These units are called dissolved air flotation (DAF) units. In particular, dissolved air flotation units are used in removing oil from the wastewater effluents of oil refineries, petrochemical and chemical plants, natural gas processing plants and similar industrial facilities.\n\nFroth flotation is one of the processes used to recover recycled paper. In the paper industry this step is called deinking or just flotation. The target is to release and remove the hydrophobic contaminants from the recycled paper. The contaminants are mostly printing ink and stickies. Normally the setup is a two-stage system with 3,4 or 5 flotation cells in series.\n\nBefore froth flotation can work, the ore to be treated is reduced to fine particles by crushing and grinding (a process known as comminution) so that the various minerals exist as physically separate grains. This process is known as \"liberation\". The particle sizes are typically less than 0.1 mm (100 µm), but sometimes sizes smaller than 7–10 µm are required. There is a tendency for the liberation size of the minerals to decrease over time as the ore bodies with coarse mineral grains that can be separated at larger sizes are depleted and replaced by ore bodies that were formerly considered too difficult.\n\nIn the mining industry, the plants where flotation is undertaken to concentrate ore are generally known as \"concentrators\" or \"mills\".\n\nFor froth flotation, the ground ore is mixed with water to form a slurry and the desired mineral is rendered hydrophobic by the addition of a surfactant or \"collector\" chemical (although some mineral surfaces are naturally hydrophobic, requiring little or no addition of collector). The particular chemical depends on the nature of the mineral to be recovered and, perhaps, the natures of those that are not wanted. As an example, sodium ethyl xanthate may be added as a collector in the selective flotation of galena (lead sulfide) to separate it from sphalerite (zinc sulfide). This slurry (more properly called the \"pulp\") of hydrophobic particles and hydrophilic particles is then introduced to tanks known as \"flotation cells\" that are aerated to produce bubbles. The hydrophobic particles attach to the air bubbles, which rise to the surface, forming a froth. The froth is removed from the cell, producing a concentrate (\"con\") of the target mineral.\n\nFrothing agents, known as \"frothers\", may be introduced to the pulp to promote the formation of a stable froth on top of the flotation cell.\n\nThe minerals that do not float into the froth are referred to as the \"flotation tailings\" or \"flotation tails\". These tailings may also be subjected to further stages of flotation to recover the valuable particles that did not float the first time. This is known as \"scavenging\". The final tailings after scavenging are normally pumped for disposal as mine fill or to tailings disposal facilities for long-term storage.\n\nFroth flotation efficiency is determined by a series of probabilities: those of particle–bubble contact, particle–bubble attachment, transport between the pulp and the froth, and froth collection into the product launder. In a conventional mechanically-agitated cell, the void fraction (i.e. volume occupied by air bubbles) is low (5 to 10 percent) and the bubble size is usually greater than 1 mm. This results in a relatively low interfacial area and a low probability of particle–bubble contact. Consequently, several cells in series are required to increase the particle residence time, thus increasing the probability of particle–bubble contact.\n\nFlotation is normally undertaken in several stages to maximize the recovery of the target mineral or minerals and the concentration of those minerals in the concentrate, while minimizing the energy input.\n\nThe first stage is called \"roughing\", which produces a \"rougher concentrate\". The objective is to remove the maximum amount of the valuable mineral at as coarse a particle size as practical. The finer an ore is ground, the greater the energy that is required, so it makes sense to fine grind only those particles that need fine grinding. Complete liberation is not required for rougher flotation, only sufficient liberation to release enough gangue from the valuable mineral to get a high recovery.\n\nThe primary objective of roughing is to recover as much of the valuable minerals as possible, with less emphasis on the quality of the concentrate produced.\n\nIn some concentrators, there may be a \"preflotation\" step that precedes roughing. This is done when there are some undesirable materials, such as organic carbon, that readily float. They are removed first to avoid them floating during roughing (and thus contaminating the rougher concentrate).\n\nThe rougher concentrate is normally subjected to further stages of flotation to reject more of the undesirable minerals that also reported to the froth, in a process known as \"cleaning\". The product of cleaning is known as the \"cleaner concentrate\" or the \"final concentrate\".\n\nThe objective of cleaning is to produce as high a concentrate grade as possible.\n\nThe rougher concentrate is often subject to further grinding (usually called \"regrinding\") to get more complete liberation of the valuable minerals. Because it is a smaller mass than that of the original ore, less energy is needed than would be necessary if the whole ore were reground. Regrinding is often undertaken in specialized \"regrind mills\", such as the IsaMill, designed to further reduce the energy consumed during regrinding to finer sizes.\n\nThe rougher flotation step is often followed by a \"scavenger\" flotation step that is applied to the rougher tailings. The objective is to recover any of the target minerals that were not recovered during the initial roughing stage. This might be achieved by changing the flotation conditions to make them more rigorous than the initial roughing, or there might be some secondary grinding to provide further liberation.\n\nThe concentrate from the rougher scavengers could be returned to the rougher feed for refloating or sent to special cleaner cells.\n\nSimilarly, the cleaning step may also be followed by a scavenging step performed on the cleaner tailings.\n\nTo be effective on a given ore slurry, the collectors are chosen based upon their selective wetting of the types of particles to be separated. A good collector will adsorb, physically or chemically, with one of the types of particles. This provides the thermodynamic requirement for the particles to bind to the surface of a bubble. The wetting activity of a surfactant on a particle can be quantified by measuring the contact angles that the liquid/bubble interface makes with it. Another important measure for attachment of bubbles to particles is induction time. The induction time is the time required for the particle and bubble to rupture the thin film separating the particle and bubble. This rupturing is achieved by the surface forces between the particle and bubble.\n\nThe mechanisms for the bubble-particle attachment is very complex and consists of three steps, collision, attachment and detachment. The collision is achieved by particles being within the collision tube of a bubble and this is affected by the velocity of the bubble and radius of the bubble. The collision tube corresponds to the region in which a particle will collide with the bubble, with the perimeter of the collision tube corresponding to the grazing trajectory.\n\nThe attachment of the particle to the bubble is controlled by the induction time of the particle and bubble. The particle and bubble need to bind and this occurs if the time in which the particle and bubble are in contact with each other is larger than the required induction time. This induction time is affected by the fluid viscosity, particle and bubble size and the forces between the particle and bubbles.\n\nThe detachment of a particle and bubble occurs when the force exerted by the surface tension is exceeded by shear forces and gravitational forces. These forces are complex and vary within the cell. High shear will be experienced close to the impeller of a mechanical flotation cell and mostly gravitational force in the collection and cleaning zone of a flotation column.\n\nSignificant issues of entrainment of fine particles occurs as these particles experience low collision efficiencies as well as sliming and degradation of the particle surfaces. Coarse particles show a low recovery of the valuable mineral due to the low liberation and high detachment efficiencies.\n\nFroth flotation depends on the selective adhesion of air bubbles to mineral surfaces in a mineral/water slurry. The air bubbles will attach to more hydrophobic particles. The attachment of the bubbles to the surface is determined by the interfacial energies between the solid, liquid, and gas phases. This is determined by the Young-Dupré Equation:\nformula_1\n\nwhere:\n\nMinerals targeted for separation may be chemically surface-modified with collectors so that they are more hydrophobic. Collectors are a type of surfactant that increase the natural hydrophobicity of the surface, increasing the separability of the hydrophobic and hydrophilic particles. Collectors either chemically bond via chemisorption to the mineral or adsorb onto the surface via physisorption.\n\nThe collision rates for fine particles (50 - 80 μm) can be accurately modeled, but there is no current theory that accurately models bubble-particle collision for particles as large as 300 μm, which are commonly used in flotation processes.\n\nFor fine particles, Stokes law underestimates collision probability while the potential equation based on surface charge overestimates collision probability so an intermediate equation is used.\n\nIt is important to know the collision rates in the system since this step precedes the adsorption where a three phase system is formed.\n\nThe effectiveness of a medium to adsorb to a particle is influenced by the relationship between the surfaces of both materials. There are multiple factors that affect the efficiency of adsorption in chemical, thermodynamic, and physical domains. These factors can range from surface energy and polarity to the shape, size, and roughness of the particle. In froth flotation, adsorption is a strong consequence of surface energy, since the small particles have a high surface area to size ratio, resulting in higher energy surfaces to form attractions with adsorbates. The air bubbles must selectively adhere to the desired minerals to elevate them to the surface of the slurry while wetting the other minerals and leaving them in the aqueous slurry medium.\n\nParticles that can be easily wetted by water are called hydrophilic, while particles that are not easily wetted by water are called hydrophobic. Hydrophobic particles have a tendency to form a separate phase in aqueous media. In froth flotation the effectiveness of an air bubble to adhere to a particle is based on how hydrophobic the particle is. Hydrophobic particles have an affinity to air bubbles, leading to adsorption. The bubble-particle combinations are elevated to the froth zone driven by buoyancy forces.\n\nThe attachment of the bubbles to the particles is determined by the interfacial energies of between the solid, liquid, and vapor phases, as modeled by the Young/Dupre Equation. The interfacial energies can be based on the natural structure of the materials, or the addition of chemical treatments can improve energy compatibility.\n\nCollectors are the main additives used to improve particle surfaces. They function as surfactants to selectively isolate and aid adsorption between the particles of interest and bubbles rising through the slurry. Common collectors used in flotation are anionic sulfur ligands, which have a bifunctional structure with an ionic portion which shares attraction with metals, and a hydrophobic portion such as a long hydrocarbon tail. These collectors coat a particle’s surface with a monolayer of non-polar substance to aid separation from the aqueous phase by decreasing the adsorbed particle solubility in water. The adsorbed ligands can form micelles around the particles and form small-particle colloids improving stability and phase separation further.\n\nThe adsorption of particles to bubbles is essential to separating the minerals from the slurry, but the minerals must be purified from the additives used in separation, such as the collectors, frothers, and modifiers. The product of the cleaning, or desorption process, is known as the cleaner concentrate. \nThe detachment of a particle and bubble requires adsorption bond cleavage driven by shear forces. Depending on the flotation cell type, shear forces are applied by a variety of mechanical systems. Among the most common are impellers and mixers. Some systems combine the functionalities of these components by placing them at key locations where they can take part in multiple froth flotation mechanisms. Cleaning cells also take advantage of gravitational forces to improve separation efficiency.\n\nA common quantity used to describe the collection efficiency of a froth flotation process is \"flotation recovery\" (formula_2). This quantity incorporates the probabilities of collision and attachment of particles to gas flotation bubbles.\n\nformula_3\n\nwhere:\n\nThe following, are several additional mathematical methods often used to evaluate the effectiveness of froth flotation processes. These equations are more simple than the calculation for \"flotation recovery\", as they are based solely on the amounts of inputs and outputs of the processes.\n\nFor the following equations:\n\nRatio of feed weight to concentrate weight formula_17 (unitless)\n\nformula_18\n\nPercent of metal recovered (formula_19) in wt\"%\"\n\nformula_20\n\nPercent of metal lost (formula_21) in wt\"%\"\n\nformula_22\n\nPercent of weight recovered formula_23 in wt\"%\"\n\nformula_24\n\nGrade-recovery curves are useful tools in weighing the trade-off of producing a high grade of concentrate while maintaining as low of a recovery rate as possible, two important aspects of froth flotation. These curves are developed empirically based on the individual froth flotation process of a particular plant. As the curves are shifted in the positive x-direction (to the right) and the positive y-direction (upward) the performance of the froth flotation process is regarded as improving. A disadvantage to these curves is that they can only compare the grade-recovery relations of a specific feed grade and feed rate. If a company has a variance of feed grades and rates used (an extremely common occurrence) in their froth flotation process, grade-recovery curves for every pairing of feed grade and recovery rate would have to be constructed in order to provide meaningful information to the plant.\n\nFlotation can be performed in rectangular or cylindrical mechanically agitated cells or tanks, flotation columns, Jameson Cells or deinking flotation machines. Classified by the method of air absorption manner, it is fair to state that two distinct groups of flotation equipments have arisen:pneumatic and mechanical machines. Generally pneumatic machines give a low-grade concentrate and little operating troubles.\nMechanical cells use a large mixer and diffuser mechanism at the bottom of the mixing tank to introduce air and provide mixing action. Flotation columns use air spargers to introduce air at the bottom of a tall column while introducing slurry above. The countercurrent motion of the slurry flowing down and the air flowing up provides mixing action. Mechanical cells generally have a higher throughput rate, but produce material that is of lower quality, while flotation columns generally have a low throughput rate but produce higher quality material.\n\nThe Jameson cell uses neither impellers nor spargers, instead combining the slurry with air in a downcomer where high shear creates the turbulent conditions required for bubble particle contacting.\n\nThe following steps are followed, following grinding to liberate the mineral particles:\n\nSimple flotation circuit for mineral concentration. Numbered triangles show direction of stream flow. Various flotation reagents are added to a mixture of ore and water (called pulp) in a conditioning tank. The flow rate and tank size are designed to give the minerals enough time to be activated. The conditioner pulp [1] is fed to a bank of rougher cells which remove most of the desired minerals as a concentrate. The rougher pulp [2] passes to a bank of scavenger cells where additional reagents may be added. The scavenger cell froth [3] is usually returned to the rougher cells for additional treatment, but in some cases may be sent to special cleaner cells. The scavenger pulp is usually barren enough to be discarded as tails. More complex flotation circuits have several sets of cleaner and re-cleaner cells, and intermediate re-grinding of pulp or concentrate.\n\nFor many ores (e.g. those of Cu, Mo, W, Ni), the collectors are anionic sulfur ligands. Particularly popular are xanthate salts, including potassium amyl xanthate (PAX), potassium isobutyl xanthate (PIBX), potassium ethyl xanthate (KEX), sodium isobutyl xanthate (SIBX), sodium isopropyl xanthate (SIPX), sodium ethyl xanthate (SEX). Other collectors include related sulfur-based ligands: dithiophosphates, dithiocarbamates. Still other classes of collectors include the thiourea thiocarbanilide. Fatty acids have also been used.\n\nFor some minerals (e.g., sylvanite for KCl), fatty amines are used as collectors.\n\nA variety of compounds are added to stabilize the foams. These additives include pine oil, various alcohols (methyl isobutyl carbinol (MIBC)), polyglycols, xylenol (cresylic acid).\n\nA variety of other compounds are added to optimize the separation process, these additives are called modifiers. Such species do not interact directly with the mineral, but modify the physical properties of the solution.\n\n\n\nIllustrative, the flotation process is used for purification of potassium chloride from sodium chloride and clay minerals. The crushed mineral is suspended in brine in the presence of fatty ammonium salts. Because the ammonium group and K have very similar ionic radii (ca. 0.135, 0.143 nm respectively), the ammonium centers exchange for the surface potassium sites on the particles of KCl, but not on the NaCl particles. The long alkyl chains then confer hydrophobicity, to the particles, which enable them to form foams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48342958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48342958", "title": "Functional Independence Measure", "text": "Functional Independence Measure\n\nThe Functional Independence Measure (FIM) is an assessment tool that aims to evaluate the functional status of patients throughout the rehabilitation process following a stroke, traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury or cancer. Its area of use can include skilled nursing facilities and hospitals aimed at acute, sub-acute and rehabilitation care. Performed on admission to and departure from a rehabilitation hospital, it serves as a consistent data collection tool for the comparison of rehabilitation outcomes across the health care continuum. Furthermore, it aims to allow clinicians to track changes in the functional status of patients from the onset of rehab care through discharge and follow-up. The FIM's assessment of degree of disability depends on the patient's score in 18 categories, focusing on motor and cognitive function. Each category or item is rated on a 7-point scale (1 = <25% independence; total assistance required, 7 = 100% independence). As such, FIM scores may be interpreted to indicate level of independence or level of burden of care. The scale is used to assess how well a person can carry out basic activities of daily living and thus how dependent he or she will be on help from others. Other areas assessed include the physical like how well patients move and walk, and the cognitive, how well they interact with others, communicate, and process information. FIM was originally made for people who had had strokes, but is used to assess disability in other cases as well.\n"}
{"id": "14020590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14020590", "title": "Gluconasturtiin", "text": "Gluconasturtiin\n\nGluconasturtiin (phenethylglucosinolate) is one of the most widely distributed glucosinolates in the cruciferous vegetables, mainly in the roots, and is probably one of the plant compounds responsible for the natural pest-inhibiting properties of growing crucifers, such as cabbage, mustard or rape, in rotation with other crops. This effect of gluconasturtiin is most likely due to its degradation by the plant enzyme myrosinase into phenethyl isothiocyanate, which is toxic to many organisms.\n\nGluconasturtiin is named from its occurrence in watercress (\"Nasturtium officinale\"). Among the vegetables, it is also found in horseradish (\"Armoracia rusticana\") along with sinigrin. Both compounds elicit a pungent taste.\n\nIn one investigation of horseradish roots, sinigrin concentration represented 83% and gluconasturtiin 11% of the extracted glucosinolates.\n\n"}
{"id": "52203662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52203662", "title": "Government Medical College, Miraj", "text": "Government Medical College, Miraj\n\nGovernment Medical College, Miraj or GMC Miraj is a medical college located in Sangli, Maharashtra affiliated to Maharashtra University of Health Sciences and Recognized by Medical Council of India\n\nEstablished- 1962\n\nIt has 150 undergraduate seats for MBBS course.\n\nTotal PG seats - 47 including\n\nMD Medicine- 7,\nMS Surgery-7,\nMS Ophthalmology-3,\nDiploma in Child Health-2\n"}
{"id": "27974483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27974483", "title": "Individual involvement in the Chernobyl disaster", "text": "Individual involvement in the Chernobyl disaster\n\nThe Chernobyl disaster, () \"Chornobylʹsʹka katastrofa,\" was a nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic (then part of the Soviet Union), now in Ukraine. The following is the individual involvement in the accident.\n\nIn the night from 25 to 26 April, in the two power plant complexes, there were 160 people on duty, including technicians and maintenance personnel of the various departments. Three hundred more workers were present at the building site of the third complex of the blocks 5 and 6.\n\nGorbachenko, a radiation monitoring technician, at the beginning of his shift checked Unit 3; he skipped the check of Unit 4 as it was being shut down, so at the moment of the accident he was located in the duty room. A flat and powerful thud shook the building; he and his assistant Pshenichnikov thought it was a water hammer occurring during a turbine shutdown. Another flat thud followed, accompanied by lights going out, the control panel of Unit 4 losing signal, latched double doors being blown apart by the blast, and black and red powder falling from the ventilation vent; emergency lights then switched on. Telephone connection with Unit 4 was cut. The corridor to the deaerator galleries was full of steam and white dust. The radiation counters went off-scale, and the high-range one burned out when switched on; the portable instruments were capable of showing at most 4 roentgens per hour (36 nA/kg), while the radiation on the roof ranged between 2,000 and 15,000 roentgens per hour (18 and 130 µA/kg). He went to the turbine hall to survey the damage, saw scattered pieces of concrete, and returned to the duty room. Meeting two men there, together with them he went to search for Shashenok, found him unconscious in a damaged instrument room, and carried him down. Gorbachenko returned to his post and changed clothes and shoes. He was then ordered to look for Khodemchuk, but the search was unsuccessful. He went to the control room and with Dyatlov went outside to survey the reactor building. At 5:00 am, he began feeling weak and vomiting and was transported to hospital, from where he was released on 27 October.\n\nThe night shift main circulating pump operator, Khodemchuk, was likely killed immediately; he was located in the collapsed part of the building, in the far end of the southern main circulating pumps engine room at level +10. His body was never recovered and is entombed in the reactor debris.\n\nShashenok, the automatic systems adjuster from \"Atomenergonaladka\" (the Chernobyl startup and adjustment enterprise), was supposed to be in Room 604, the location of the measurement and control instruments, on the upper landing across the turbine room, on level +24, under the reactor feedwater unit; he was reporting the states of the pressure gauges of the profile of the multiple forced circulation circuit to the computer room by telephone. The communication lines were cut during the explosion. Shashenok received deep thermal and radiation burns over his entire body when the overpressure spike destroyed the isolation membranes and the impulse pipes of the manometers in his instrument room just before the explosion, which then demolished the room itself. The landing was found damaged, covered with ankle-deep water, and there were leaks of boiling water and radioactive steam. Shashenok was found unconscious in Room 604, pinned under a fallen beam, with bloody foam coming out of his mouth. His body was severely contaminated by radioactive water. He was carried out by Gorbachenko and Palamarchuk and died at 6:00 am in the Pripyat hospital under care of the chief physician, Leonenko Vitaliy, without regaining consciousness. Gorbachenko suffered a radiation burn on his back where Shashenok's hand was located when he helped carry him out. Khodemchuk and Shashenok were the first two victims of the disaster.\n\nGenrikh, an operator of the control room on Level +36, was taking a nap in a windowless room adjacent to the control room. The window in the control room was broken and the lights went out. His colleague Kurguz was in the control room with three open doors between him and the reactor room; at the moment of the explosion, he suffered severe burns from steam entering the control room. Genrikh received less serious burns as he was protected by the windowless room. The stairs on the right side were damaged; he managed to escape by the stairs on the left. On the way back they were joined by Simeonov and Simonenko, the gas loop operators, all four heading to the control room. Kurguz was shortly afterwards evacuated by an ambulance; aware of dangers of radiation contamination, Genrikh took a shower and changed his clothes.\n\nYuvchenko was located in his office between reactors 3 and 4, on Level 12.5; he described the event as a shock wave that buckled walls, blew doors in, and brought a cloud of milky grey radioactive dust and steam. The lights went out. He met a badly burned, drenched and shocked pump operator, who asked him to rescue Khodemchuk; that quickly proved impossible as that part of the building did not exist anymore. Yuvchenko, together with the foreman Yuri Tregub, ran out of the building and saw half of the building gone and the reactor emitting a blue glow of ionized air. They returned to the building and met Valeri Perevozchenko and two junior technicians, Kudryavtsev and Proskuryakov, ordered by Dyatlov or Akimov to manually lower the presumably seized control rods. Tregub went to report the extent of damage to the control room. Despite Yuvchenko's explanation that there were no control rods left, the four climbed a stairwell to Level 35 to survey the damage; Yuvchenko held open the massive door into the reactor room and the other three proceeded in to locate the control rod mechanism; after no more than a minute of surveying the reactor debris, enough for all three to sustain fatal doses of radiation, they returned, their skin darkened with \"nuclear tan\" in reaction to the high radiation dose. The three were the first to die in the Moscow hospital. Yuvchenko meanwhile suffered serious beta burns and gamma burns to his left shoulder, hip and calf as he kept the radioactive-dust-covered door open. It was later estimated he received a dose of 4.1 Sv. At 3:00 am, he began vomiting intensely; by 6:00 am, he could no longer walk. He later spent a year in the Moscow hospital receiving blood and plasma transfusions and received numerous skin grafts. \n\nPerevozchenko, the reactor section foreman, was present on the open platform at Level +50 shortly before the explosion. He witnessed the 350 kg blocks atop the fuel channels of the Upper Biological Shield jumping up and down and felt the shock waves through the building structure; the rupture of the pressure channels was in progress. He ran down the spiral staircase to Level +10, through the deaerator gallery and the corridor to the control room, to report his observations, arriving shortly after the explosions, then returned to search for his comrades. He witnessed the destruction of the reactor building from the broken windows of the deaerator gallery. With his face already tanned by the radiation, he went to the dosimetry room and asked Gorbachenko for radiation levels; Gorbachenko left with Palamarchuk to rescue Shashenok while Perevozchenko went through the graphite and fuel containing radioactive rubble on Level 10 to the remains of Room 306 in an unsuccessful attempt to locate Khodemchuk, close to debris emitting over 10,000 roentgens per hour (90 µA/kg). He then went to the control room of Genrikh and Kurguz and found it empty; vomiting and losing consciousness, he returned to the control room to report on the situation.\n\nBrazhnik, the senior turbine machinist operator, ran into the control room to report fire in the turbine hall. Palamarchuk, the Chernobyl enterprise group supervisor, together with Davletbayev, followed him back to the turbine room. They witnessed fires on Levels 0 and +12, broken oil and water pipes, roof debris on top of turbine 7, and scattered pieces of reactor graphite and fuel, with the linoleum on the floor burning around them. Palamarchuk unsuccessfully attempted to contact Sashenok in Room 604, then ran around the turbogenerator 8, down to Level 0 and urged the two men from the Kharkov mobile laboratory, assigned to record the turbine 8 vibrations, to leave; they, however, had both already received a lethal radiation dose. Akimov asked Palamarchuk to look for Gorbachenko and then rescue Sashenok as the communication with the dosimetry room was cut. Palamarchuk met Gorbachenko by the staircase on Level +27, then they together found and recovered Shashenok's unconscious body.\n\nKudryavtsev and Proskuryakov, the SIUR trainees from other shifts, were present to watch Toptunov and learn. After the explosion they were sent by Dyatlov or Akimov to the central hall to turn the handles of the system for manual lowering of the presumably seized control rods. They ran through the de-aerator gallery to the right to the VRSO unit elevator, found it destroyed, so climbed up the staircase instead, towards Level 36; they missed Kurguz and Genrikh, who used another stairwell. Level 36 was destroyed, covered with rubble. They went through a narrow corridor towards the central hall, entered the reactor hall, and found it blocked with rubble and fragments; dangling fire hoses were pouring water into the remains of the reactor core, the firemen not there anymore. The Upper Biological Shield was slanted, jammed into the reactor shaft; a blue and red fire raged in the hole. The minute the two stood above the reactor was enough to darken their bodies with \"nuclear tan\" and give them a fatal radiation dose. They returned to Level 10 and to the control room, reporting the situation; Dyatlov insisted they were wrong, assuming the explosion had been caused by hydrogen-oxygen mixture in the 110 m³ emergency tank and the reactor itself was intact.\n\nAnatoly Dyatlov, the deputy chief engineer, supervised the test. At the moment reactor power slipped to 30MW, he insisted the operators continue the test. He overrode Akimov's and Toptunov's objections, threatening to hand the shift to Tregub (the previous shift operator who had remained on-site), intimidating them into attempting to increase the reactor power. During this period of time the reactor protection system was vetoed to prevent automatic shutdown of the reactor. The power stabilized at 200MW at around 1:00 am and did not rise further, due to continued xenon poisoning of the core. Later the test was commenced, then the reactor showed power excursion and was scrammed. As the control rods dropped into the core, their design (which incorporated a graphite plug at the bottom of each rod) introduced additional moderation and hence reactivity into the reactor system. The explosion occurred as the control rods were falling, and the subsequent damage prevented insertion into the reactor. Dyatlov ordered reactor cooling with emergency speed, assuming the reactor was intact and the explosion had been caused by hydrogen accumulating in the emergency tank of the safety control system. Other employees went to the control room, reporting damage. Dyatlov went to the backup control room, pressing the AZ-5 button there and disconnecting power to the control rod servodrives; despite seeing the graphite blocks scattered on the ground outside the plant, he still believed the reactor was intact. Kudryavtsev and Proskuryakov returned to report the reactor damage they had seen, but Dyatlov insisted what they had seen was the results of an explosion of the emergency tank, claiming the explosion of the 110 m³ tank at Level +71 was sufficient to destroy the central hall roof. Dyatlov reported his assumptions as reality to Bryukhanov and Fomin, the higher-level managers. In the corridor, he met Genrikh and Kurguz and sent them to the medical station. He ran to the control room of Block 3, ordered Bagdasarov to shut down Reactor 3, then returned to control room 4 and ordered Akimov to call the daytime shift and get people to the affected unit; namely Lelechenko, whose crew had to remove hydrogen from the Generator 8 electrolyzer. At 2:00, Dyatlov ordered Akimov to feed water to the reactor, and together with Gorbachenko went to survey the plant from the outside. Despite seeing the fuel and graphite scattered around, he still believed the reactor was intact. They then returned to the control room. At 5:00 am, he got sick and together with Gorbachenko went to the medical unit. Fomin replaced him at his post with Sitnikov.\n\nAleksandr Akimov, the unit shift chief, was in charge of the test itself. He took over the shift at midnight from Tregub, who stayed on-site. The drop in reactor power from 1500 MWt to 30 MWt was disconcerting; he wanted to abort the test. He supported Toptunov's decision to shut down the poisoned reactor, but was over-ridden by Dyatlov and forced to continue. At 1:23:04 am the test began, and the main circulation pumps started cavitating due to the too high temperature of inlet water. The coolant started boiling in the reactor, and the reactor power slowly increased. Toptunov reported a power excursion to Akimov. At 1:23:40, Akimov pressed the AZ-5 button, class-5 emergency. The control rods, according to the synchro indicators, seized at a depth of between 2 and 2.5 meters instead of the entire core depth of 7 meters. Akimov disconnected the clutches of the control rod servos to let the rods descend into the core by their own weight, but the rods did not move. The reactor was now making rumbling noises. Akimov was confused. The reactor control panel indicated no water flow and failure of pumps. The explosion occurred, the air filled with dust, power went out, and only battery-powered emergency lights stayed in operation. Perevozchenko ran into the control room, reporting the collapse of the reactor top. Brazhnik ran in from the turbine hall, reporting fire there. Brazhki, Akimov, Davletbayev, and Palamarchuk ran into the turbine hall, having seen scattered debris and multiple fires on Levels 0 and +12. Akimov called the fire station and the chiefs of electrical and other departments, asking for electrical power for coolant pumps, removal of hydrogen from hydrogen generators, and other emergency procedures to stabilize the plant and contain the damage. Internal telephone lines were disabled; Akimov sent Palamarchuk to contact Gorbachenko. Kudryavtsev and Proskuryakov returned from the reactor and reported its state to Akimov and Dyatlov. Insisting the reactor was intact, Akimov ordered Stolyarchuk and Busygin to turn on the emergency feedwater pumps. Davletbayev reported loss of electrical power, torn cables, and electric arcs. Akimov sent Metlenko to help in the turbine hall with manual opening of the cooling system valves, which was expected to take at least four hours per valve. Perevozchenko returned and reported that the reactor was destroyed, but Akimov insisted it was intact. At 3:30 am, Telyatnikov contacted Akimov, asking what was happening to his firemen; Akimov sent him a dosimetrist. Akimov, already nauseous, was replaced at 6:00 am by the unit chief Vladimir Alekseyevich Babychev, but together with Toptunov stayed in the plant. Believing the water flow to the reactor to be blocked by a closed valve somewhere, they went to the half-destroyed feedwater room on Level +24. Together with Nekhayev, Orlov, and Uskov, they opened the valves on the two feedwater lines, then climbed over to Level +27 and almost knee-deep in a mixture of fuel and water, opened two valves on the 300 line; due to advancing radiation poisoning caused by a dose of over 15 Grays (4 being the LD50), they did not have the strength to open the valves on the sides. Akimov and Toptunov spent several hours turning valves; the radioactive water in Room 712 was half submerging the pipeline. Smagin went in to open the third valves, spent 20 minutes in the room, and received 280 rads. Akimov was evacuated to the hospital. Until his death, he insisted he had done everything correctly and had made no mistakes.\n\nBryukhanov, the plant manager, arrived at 2:30 am. Akimov reported a serious radiation accident but intact reactor, fires in the process of being extinguished, and a second emergency water pump being readied to cool the reactor. Due to limitations of available instruments, they seriously underestimated the radiation level. At 3:00 am, Bryukhanov called Maryin, the deputy secretary for the nuclear power industry, reporting Akimov's version of the situation. Maryin sent the message further up the chain of command, to Frolyshev, who then called Vladimir Dolgikh, who called Gorbachev and other members of the Politburo. At 4:00 am, Moscow ordered feeding of water to the reactor. As Director of the Chernobyl site he was imprisoned for ten years.\n\nChief engineer Fomin arrived in the Block 4 control room at 4:30. Akimov reported an intact reactor and explosion of the emergency water feed tank. He ordered continuous feeding of water into the reactor, which was already in progress by emergency pump 2 from the deaerators. Fomin kept pressing the staff to feed water to the reactor and transferred more people to Unit 4 to replace those being disabled by radiation. After Dyatlov left, Fomin ordered Sitnikov, his replacement, to climb to the roof of Unit C and survey the reactor; Sitnikov obeyed and received a fatal radiation dose there; at 10:00 am he returned and reported to Fomin and Bryukhanov that the reactor was destroyed. The managers refused to believe him and ordered continued feeding of water into the reactor; the water, however, flowed through the severed pipes into the lower levels of the plant, carrying radioactive debris and causing short circuits in the cableways common to all four blocks.\nLater, before trial he had a mental breakdown and tried to kill himself. Fomin had broken his glasses and slit his wrists with the shards, but they saved his life.\n\nThe following is a table of victims and other involved people of the Number Four reactor accident (still alive unless date of death is specified or died from explosions or related causes).\n"}
{"id": "23497821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23497821", "title": "Intermittent preventive therapy", "text": "Intermittent preventive therapy\n\nIntermittent preventive therapy or intermittent preventive treatment (IPT) is a public health intervention aimed at treating and preventing malaria episodes in infants (IPTi), children (IPTc), schoolchildren (IPTsc) and pregnant women (IPTp). The intervention builds on two tested malaria control strategies to clear existing parasites (treatment effect seen in mass drug administrations) and to prevent new infections (prophylaxis).\n\nIPTi using the antimalarial drug sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine (S/P) was pioneered in Ifakara, Tanzania in 1999. Infants received S/P at ages 3, 6, and 9 months in combination with their routine childhood (EPI) vaccinations. IPTi reduced clinical attacks of malaria by 59% (95% CI, 41%–72%) in Ifakara. Remarkably, protection persisted throughout the second year of life, long after SP had disappeared from circulation. A trial conducted in northern Tanzania using the antimalarial drug amodiaquine instead of S/P was similarly successful. Six subsequent trials showed less encouraging results.\n\nThe latest and so far largest IPTi study was an effectiveness study conducted in the South East of Tanzania. A study area of approximately 250x180km2 with a population of about 900,000 people was subdivided into 24 similar clusters. Half of the 23,400 infants, those residing in 12 of 24 randomly selected clusters were invited in 2005 to receive IPTi. Between 47 and 76% of the eligible infants in each of the 12 selected clusters received IPT-SP. In the following year, 2006, the effect of IPTi on malaria and anaemia was assessed in a representative sample of 600 infants. An intention to treat analysis, which includes all eligible infants did not show a statistically significant benefit of IPTi-SP. Parasitaemia prevalence was 31% in the intervention and 38% in the comparison areas (p=0.06). In a ‘per protocol’ analysis, which only included infants who actually received IPTi there was a significant benefit: parasite prevalence was 22%, 19 percentage points lower than comparison children in the control group (p=0.01). This trial showed that IPTi has a protective effect at the individual level but is not effective at the community level. The study had followed up children for two years until 2007 but the findings from the surveillance in 2007 have not been reported.\n\nTreating children with S/P and artesunate in Senegal where malaria is highly seasonal repeatedly during the malaria season reduced malaria attacks by 86% (95% CI 80-90)9. A subsequent trial in Mali showed a protective efficacy of 43% [95% CI 29%-54%].\n\nTreating schoolchildren in Kenya with S/P and amodiaquine significantly improved anaemia (RR 0.52, 95% CI 0.29-0.93).\n\nIPTp consists in the administration of a single curative dose of an efficacious anti-malarial drug at least twice during pregnancy – regardless whether or not the woman is infected. The drug is administered under supervision during antenatal care (ANC) visits. Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine is the drug currently recommended by the WHO because of its safety and efficacy in pregnancy. Several studies have shown the high efficacy of IPTp with SP, compared to placebo or CQ prophylaxis, on placental infection, LBW and/or severe maternal anaemia. More recent findings from Tanzania also suggest that IPTp using S/P has reached the end of its lifecycle. The authors found that the \"use of partially effective anti-malarial agents for IPTp may exacerbate malaria infections in the setting of widespread drug resistance\". As for infants, there is no simple readily available replacement of S/P for malaria in pregnancy. Indeed, the fear of teratogenic effects add a layer of complexity how this intervention will evolve.\n\nWhile some controversial aspects e.g. the drug of choice are shared by all forms of intermittent preventive therapy, the controversy has been reported in greatest detail for IPTi (see also politics below). The reasons which make the large scale introduction of IPTi highly controversial include:\n\n\nAn added theoretical concern is that the widespread use of antimalarial drugs for prophylaxis will add to the already considerable drug pressure and will facilitate the emergence and spread of drug resistance. McGready summarised IPTi as an intervention which uses the wrong drug, probably in the wrong dose in the wrong age group.\n\nThe politics of IPTi are well documented and illustrate the working of contemporary international health politics. The promising results of the first two IPTi studies led to the creation of the IPTi Consortium, whose brief is to determine the efficacy, safety, relation of efficacy to drug sensitivity, cost-effectiveness, and acceptability of this intervention. The IPTi Consortium received approximately US$28 million from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF). A WHO technical advisory group reviewed the evidence relevant for the widespread introduction of IPTi available in 2008, and came to the conclusion that the available evidence was not sufficient to recommend the widespread introduction of IPTi -SP. Program officers of the BMGF as well as scientists funded by the BMGF criticised the WHO conclusions. The criticism from the BMGF in turn triggered a memorandum of the WHO malaria chief Dr. Akira Kochi to the director general of the WHO which was leaked to \"The New York Times\".\n\nAt the request of Dr. Brandling-Bennett of the BMGF and with funding from the BMGF, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) convened an expert committee to evaluate the evidence concerning IPTi - SP and provide guidance on the value of continued investment in IPTi-SP. The committee was chaired by Myron M. Levine who has been funded and is currently funded by the BMGF. The committee concluded \"… that an intervention with results of this magnitude is worthy of further investment as part of a public health strategy to decrease morbidity from malaria infections in infants.\" The WHO technical expert group responded to the IOM report \"WHO is committed to review the available information each year.\" Dr. Kochi was ultimately replaced by one of the members of the IPTi consortium, Dr. Robert Newman. In March 2010, i.e. after Dr. Kochi had been replaced, the WHO recommended the co-administration of the antimalarial drug sulfadoxine pyrimethamine with routine childhood vaccinations (DTP2, DTP3 and measles immunization) in sub-Saharan Africa. The recommendation applies only for areas with high malaria transmission and low resistance against SP, both measures are not free of controversy and only available for few spots in Africa. With the recent drop of malaria transmission in wide stretches of Africa and a steady increase in SP resistance few malaria control programs will hurry to implement this intervention.\n\n"}
{"id": "8895547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8895547", "title": "Interventional magnetic resonance imaging", "text": "Interventional magnetic resonance imaging\n\nInterventional magnetic resonance imaging, also Interventional MRI or IMRI, is the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to do interventional radiology procedures.\n\nBecause of the lack of harmful effects on the patient and the operator, MR is well suited for \"interventional radiology\", where the images produced by an MRI scanner are used to guide a minimally-invasive procedure intraoperatively and/or interactively. Interventional MRI can be used for a variety of specialized procedures. iMRI systems are often used for doing biopsies of lesions, resections of tumors, guiding thermal ablation of tissue, as well as other procedures. It is commonly used in neurosurgery where every millimeter of tissue spared in surgery can make a difference for patient recovery.\n\nThe non-magnetic environment required by the scanner and the strong magnetic radiofrequency and quasi-static fields generated by the scanner hardware require the use of specialized instruments. For example, use of non-magnetic (e.g. Titanium) surgical instruments and MR compatible patient surveillance accessories in addition to the MRI scanner itself increase the cost of IMRI. Often required is the use of an \"open bore\" magnet, which permits the operating staff better access to patients during the operation. Such open bore magnets are often lower field magnets, typically in the 0.2 tesla range, which decreases their sensitivity and temporal efficiency but also decreases the radio frequency power potentially absorbed by the patient during a protracted operation. Higher field magnet systems are beginning to be deployed in intraoperative imaging suites, which can combine high-field MRI with a surgical suite and even CT in a series of interconnected rooms. Specialty high-field interventional MR devices, such as the IMRIS system, can actually bring a high-field magnet to the patient within the operating theatre, permitting the use of standard surgical tools while the magnet is in an adjoining space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6427246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6427246", "title": "John William Atkinson", "text": "John William Atkinson\n\nJohn William Atkinson (December 31, 1923 – October 27, 2003), also known as Jack Atkinson, was an American psychologist who pioneered the scientific study of human motivation, achievement and behavior. He was a World War II veteran, teacher, scholar, and long term member of the University of Michigan community.\n\nAtkinson was a leader in establishing motivation as a distinct field of study in psychology research. His belief that scientific progress came from conceptual breakthroughs fueled his formulation and reformulation of a theory of motivation. He was one of the first in psychology to incorporate rigorous mathematical models in his theories and to use computer simulations of these models for experimentation. He also recognized the importance of measurement in science, maintaining a career-long interest in the refinement of measures of motivation by means of content analysis of imaginative thought using, for example, the Thematic Apperception Test which he developed jointly with his mentor David C. McClelland. He is well known for establishing measures for motives of achievement, affiliation, fear, sex, risk-taking behavior, and aggression. His discipline-changing ideas were followed around the world. In recognition, he received in 1979 the American Psychological Association's highest award, the Gold Medal for Distinguished Scientific Contributions.\n\nAtkinson was born in Jersey City, NJ, to Frank G. and Wilhelmina \"Minnie\" Atkinson. He attended public schools in Oradell NJ, graduating from Dwight Morrow High School in Englewood NJ. He enlisted in the U.S. Army Air Corp, earning his wings in 1944. He served as an advanced instrument flight instructor for the B-25 and other bombers. On earning his wings Jack married his high-school sweetheart Mary Jane Wanta. They were married in 1944 in Macon, GA.\n\nAfter the war Atkinson completed his undergraduate psychology degree with Honors at Wesleyan University, graduating in the middle of the 1946-47 academic year. As a lecturer at Wesleyan University, he began to pursue his interests in basic research on the arousal of human needs and behavior with the financial support of the Office of Naval Research and collaboration with David McClelland. Atkinson was awarded his doctorate in Psychology in 1950 at the University of Michigan. He was invited to join the faculty of the University of Michigan in the Psychology Department where he remained his entire career (1950 - 1985).\n\nAtkinson was devoted to the teaching of undergraduates throughout his career. As one of the original founders of the University of Michigan's Honors Program in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Professor Atkinson fostered unique opportunities and created multi-disciplinary courses to challenge undergraduate students. He authored and edited many books and articles on the scientific study of human motivation, achievement and behavior. Many of his books have been translated into other languages, including Russian, German, and Spanish. His theoretical and experimental work spanned decades and spawned many doctorates.\n\nAtkinson was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1979. Other awards and honors include a Guggenheim Fellowship (1960), participation twice as a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University, Fellow of the American Psychological Association, an Honorary Doctorate from Ruhr University, Germany, Wesleyan University Distinguished Alumni Award, the Association for Psychological Science: William James Fellow Award, and the American Psychological Association's highest award, the Gold Medal for Distinguished Scientific Contribution. Atkinson was honored on his retirement with a special colloquium at the University which brought together a number of his former students and colleagues who spoke of his inspiration and contributions to the science of human motivation. He was named Professor Emeritus in 1985.\n\nAtkinson insisted on ethical behavior and highly valued the fundamental freedoms on which the USA was founded. An expression of his support for a free press was his role as a member of the Board of Control of the Michigan Daily during the turbulent 1960s. In the early 1970s, his beliefs led him to become outraged by the behavior of President Richard M. Nixon, whom he viewed as a threat to liberty and justice. Jack organized and led public meetings and demonstrations denouncing President Nixon and vigorously promoted Nixon's impeachment by Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24439313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24439313", "title": "Last Chance Surgery", "text": "Last Chance Surgery\n\nLast Chance Surgery is an Australian factual television series screened on the Seven Network that first screened in 2009. Last Chance Surgery is narrated by doctor and former Australian Medical Association president, Kerryn Phelps. The series features people whose only hope of survival is radical and dangerous surgery. The series was created by Executive Producer Danny Milosavljevic who was previously the executive producer of RPA (TV series). It is made by Southern Star Entertainment, Australia's largest independent television production company. Two of the surgeons featured on the show include prominent neurosurgeons, Prof Michael Morgan and Dr Charles Teo.\n\n"}
{"id": "36264343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36264343", "title": "List of UN numbers 3501 to 3600", "text": "List of UN numbers 3501 to 3600\n\nThe UN numbers from UN3501 to UN3600 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "236337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236337", "title": "List of diseases (D)", "text": "List of diseases (D)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"D\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDeafness c – Deafness s\nDeafness v – Deafness x\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47806343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47806343", "title": "List of worker deaths in United States labor disputes", "text": "List of worker deaths in United States labor disputes\n\nThe following list of worker deaths in United States labor disputes captures known incidents of fatal labor-related violence in U.S. labor history, which began in the colonial era with the earliest worker demands around 1636 for better working conditions. It does not include killings of enslaved persons. According to a study in 1969, the United States has had the bloodiest and most violent labor history of any industrial nation in the world, and there have been few industries which have been immune.\n\nThis list is not comprehensive. A number of factors (multi-sided conflicts, physically remote locations, company-controlled locations, exaggerated or biased original reporting, etc.) make some of the death and injury counts uncertain.\n"}
{"id": "22192478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22192478", "title": "Maria Deloria Knoll", "text": "Maria Deloria Knoll\n\nMaria Deloria Knoll is an expert in the fields of epidemiology, disease surveillance, vaccine trial conduct, and bio-statistics. She currently serves as Associate Director of Science at the International Vaccine Access Center (IVAC), an organization dedicated to accelerating global access to life-saving vaccines, at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nMaria Deloria Knoll completed her undergraduate studies in Biostatistics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She received her PhD in Epidemiology from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nKnoll's research interests include the epidemiology of vaccine-preventable infectious diseases and the methodologic issues pertaining to the design, conduct and analysis of epidemiologic studies and clinical trials. \nCurrent projects include the PERCH study to determine the causes of pneumonia in settings representative of developing countries to guide the development of new pneumonia vaccines and treatment algorithms for 2015 onwards, estimating the burden and serotype distribution of pneumococcal and meningococcal disease among children and adults, measuring the impact on disease burden of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine use in Kenya and The Gambia, and evaluating the value of antigen-based diagnostic tests in blood to improve sensitivity of pneumococcal detection in pneumonia patients.\nKnoll has over 20 years of experience in the design, conduct, and analysis of clinical trials and epidemiologic studies. She spent 13 years at the National Institute of Health’s National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and her clinical trials experience there included close working relationships with many large and mid-sized vaccine manufacturers. Knoll also served as a Research Assistant Professor at Northwestern University’s Department of Preventive Medicine in Chicago, Illinois, where she directed a course on clinical trial design, conduct and analysis in their MPH program, conducted cardiovascular and HIV-related epidemiologic studies using data from established cohorts, and designed therapeutic clinical trials for the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago. She has written many well cited original articles and is regularly an invited speaker to various international health conferences.\n\nThe GAVI Alliance and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation are funding two pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) impact studies in the Gambia and Kenya. In 2006, these projects were identified as critical to GAVI's objectives of generating sustainable PCV introduction. These studies, funded through the Pneumococcal Vaccines Accelerated Development and Introduction Plan (PneumoADIP), a project of IVAC at The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health (JHSPH), provide the earliest possible opportunity to document the health impact of routine use of PCVs in developing countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14426206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14426206", "title": "Medstar Television", "text": "Medstar Television\n\nMedstar Television Inc. is a television production company based in Allentown, Pennsylvania.\n\nMedstar was incorporated in the state of Pennsylvania in 1981 by Paul Dowling and William Ferretti to produce medical news and health information. From the start, Medstar financed, produced and distributed all of its own productions. (Health Matters: Independents Prescription Works)\n\nOne of its first was \"Health Matters\", a program on health and lifestyle issues, produced in cooperation with hospitals throughout the United States, which sponsor the program in their local areas with local and national content, along the same lines as \"PM Magazine\". \"Health Matters\" was syndicated to various commercial and PBS stations during the 1980s. \n\nMedstar later expanded to produce two medical news products, \"MedstarSource\" and \"MedstarAdvances\" syndicated to commercial television stations in the United States. Production of these segments ended in August 2011.\n\nIn 1990 Medstar began to produce programming for cable television including the Discovery Channel, HBO and TLC.\n\nIn 1995 the company created the \"Medical Detectives\" series on forensic science, which premiered on TLC in April 1995. (IMDB program listing) It was the first reality based forensic series on television and used a 'murder mystery' approach to documentary storytelling. In 2000 the Medical Detectives series moved to the CourtTV network (now TruTV) where it was re-titled \"Forensic Files\" and quickly became the networks highest rated television series. Internationally, the series was sold to stations and networks in over 142 countries where it remains enormously popular. Peter Thomas narrates the series which is still in production, with more than 400 episodes. In 2002, \"Forensic Files\" would appear on NBC as the first prime time television series originally produced for cable to air on a commercial network, as a summer replacement series.\n\n"}
{"id": "80342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80342", "title": "Muti", "text": "Muti\n\nMuti is a term for traditional medicine in Southern Africa as far north as Lake Tanganyika. In South African English, the word \"muti\" is derived from the Zulu word \"umuthi\", meaning \"tree,\" whose root is \"-thi\". In Southern Africa, \"muti\" and cognates of \"umuthi\" are in widespread use in most indigenous African languages as well as in South African English and Afrikaans, which sometimes use \"muti\" as a slang word for medicine in general.\n\nAfrican traditional medicine makes use of various natural products, many derived from trees and other plants. Botanical medicine prescribed by an inyanga or herbal healer is generally known as \"muthi\", but the term can apply to other traditional medical formulations, including those that are zoological or mineral in composition.\n\nVulture brains are used for prophecy in muthi.\n\nThis noun is of the \" umu\"/\"imi\" class so the singular (tree) is \"umuthi\" and the plural (trees) is \"imithi\". Since the pronunciation of the initial vowel of this class is unstressed, the singular is sometimes pronounced \"muthi\". The word is rendered as \"muti\" by the historical effects of the British colonial spelling.\n\nIn colloquial English and Afrikaans the word \"muti\" is often used to refer to medicines in general or medicines that have a 'miraculous' effect, e.g.\n\n\n\"Isicakathi\" is a term that is used by Xhosa people when referring to plants with major pharmacological\nand therapeutic properties that are used as medicine for various ailments.\n\nThe people in the Eastern Cape of South Africa still strongly rely on traditional medicine and believe in its potency as an alternative to western medicine. There are various herbs that fall under \"isicakathi\" , used for pre-natal and post-natal medicine (although they can also be used for non-pregnancy related health issues). The plants that fall under the \"isicakathi\" category differ according to the districts in the Eastern Cape, hence it is a general term used when referring to traditional medicine. There are eleven species of plants that fall under \"isicakathi\", namely \"commelina africana\", \"agapanthus\", \"chlorophytum comosum\", \"ledebouria\", \"ranunculus multifidus\", \"thunbergia atriplicifolia\", \"kohautia amatymbica\", \"plantago major\", \"gazania linearis\", \"helichrysum pedunculatum\" and \"senecio coronatus\". The use of these plants differs according to the various areas/ districts of the Eastern Cape. The \"commelina africana\" is used for menstrual problems, pelvic pains and bladder related issues. \"Agapanthus\" is found in pre-natal and post-natal medicine, which is used by pregnant women. \"Chlorophytum comosum\" is used as a protective charm against evil spirits for both mother and child. \"Ledebouria\" is used for medicinal purposes, including pregnancy, diarrhoea, influenza, backaches, skin irritations and wounds. \"Ranunculus multifidus\" is used to cure epileptic fits in adults, lung problems and used as an emetic. \"Kohautia amatymbica\" is also used as an emetic. \"Plantago major\" is used as a cure for wounds,inflammations, and eye irritations. \"Gazania linearis\" is applied on small cuts made on the body close to the joints to protect someone from evil spirits. \"Helichrysum pedunculatum\" is used as a dressing after circumcision and to prevent the wound from getting septic. \"Senecio coronatus\" is used to get rid of pubic lice. Generally, \"isicakathi\" or plants that are regarded to fall under \"isicakathi\" are mostly used by pregnant women and children. Thus, it is also used as a protective measure against sorcery during pregnancy.\n\nAgapanthus praecox is one of the plants that falls under \"isicakathi\" used during pregnancy. It is taken orally from the six month of pregnancy until delivery. The plant is put in a container full of water and half a cup of that water is taken orally, twice a day, in the morning and in the evening. It is believed that the plant’s growth determines the health of the unborn baby. The wilting of the plant is regarded as a symbol with regards to the baby's health, usually associated with death.\n\"Isicakathi\" is widely used to induce easy childbirth. It ensures that excess water is drained, reduces vaginal discharge and placental size. The plants treat high blood pressure in both antenatal and postnatal care for women, whilst also preventing constipation.\n\n\"Rhoicissus tidentata\" is used to induce labour; its root can be used to prepare an enema. \"Erythrina lysistemon\" is used to induce labour pains during the childbirth process via pieces of the trunk's bark bound together and infused for the woman to drink. The crushed bulb of \"gunnera perpensa\" is used to reduce swelling of the feet by infusing with boiling water and ingesting.\n\n\"Salvia scabra\", mixed with the mother’s milk, is given as medicine to infants. The mixture is given to the baby to ingest for two months every day.\n\"Isicakathi\" is generally used to induce growth and prevent diseases. It is also used as an alternative to the mother’s milk and to counteract the milk’s sourness. The use of \"agapanthus praecox\" ensures that the baby is strong, whilst preventing bowel problems and crusts on its head.\n\nAn ointment is used to hasten the parturition of the baby and placenta using the leaves of \"scutia mytina\". \"Erythrina humeana\" is used to heal the umbilical cord of the baby by burning the bark and using the powder to apply on the baby.\n\nOccasions of murder and mutilation associated with some traditional cultural practices in South Africa are also termed \"muti killings\". More correctly known as \"medicine murder\", these are not human sacrifice in a religious sense, but rather involve the murder of someone in order to excise body parts for incorporation as ingredients into medicine and concoctions used in witchcraft.\n\nIn February 2010, Deputy Provincial Commissioner William Mpembe of the South African Police Service (SAPS) in North West Province said that “muti murders, particularly those involving young children, seem to be on the rise in the Tshwane areas including Soshanguve, Garankuwa and Rietgat\" That same month, African traditional healers and the Gauteng government convened at a seminar in Pretoria, South Africa to root out the \"evil practice of mutilating human bodies for purposes of muti making.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12679833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12679833", "title": "National Bourbon Heritage Month", "text": "National Bourbon Heritage Month\n\nNational Bourbon Heritage Month is an observance in the United States that calls for celebration of bourbon as America's \"Native Spirit\". On August 2, 2007, the US Senate declared September 2007 as \"National Bourbon Heritage Month.\" The bill, sponsored by Republican Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky, passed by unanimous consent. The resolution calls for consumers who enjoy bourbon to do so responsibly and in moderation. The bill reinforces the 1964 Act of Congress that declared bourbon \"America's Native Spirit\" by celebrating the family heritage, tradition and deep-rooted legacy that the bourbon industry contributes to the United States.\n\nTo celebrate America's Native Spirit and National Bourbon Heritage Month, the city of Bardstown, Kentucky has hosted the Kentucky Bourbon Festival every September since 1991. The festival is dedicated to celebrating the history and art of distilling Bourbon whiskey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25903438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25903438", "title": "National Mental Health Development Unit", "text": "National Mental Health Development Unit\n\nThe National Mental Health Development Unit (NMHDU) was a governmental organisation in England charged with supporting the implementation of mental health policy. The unit worked to achieve this by advising on best practice for improving mental health and mental health services. NMHDU closed on 31 March 2011.\n\nThe NMHDU was funded by the Department of Health and the National Health Service, and aimed to work in partnership with the NHS's Strategic Health Authorities and all stakeholders. The Unit was launched in 2009, following the abolition of the National Institute for Mental Health in England (NIMHE). The director of the NIMHE, Ian MacPherson, became the director of the NMHDU.\n\nThe Unit had several specific programmes of activity, including to support the Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) scheme. The Unit also supported the government's strategy for mental health, New Horizons, which was published in December 2009 following the end of the National Service Framework plans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2796813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2796813", "title": "Omphalitis of newborn", "text": "Omphalitis of newborn\n\nOmphalitis of newborn is the medical term for inflammation of the umbilical cord stump in the neonatal newborn period, most commonly attributed to a bacterial infection. Typically immediately after an infant is born, the umbilical cord is cut with a small remnant (often referred to as the stump) left behind. Normally the stump separates from the skin within 3–45 days after birth. A small amount of pus-like material is commonly seen at the base of the stump and can be controlled by keeping the stump open to air to dry. Certain bacteria can grow and infect the stump during this process and as a result significant redness and swelling may develop, and in some cases the infection can then spread through the umbilical vessels to the rest of the body. While currently an uncommon anatomical location for infection in the newborn in the United States, it has caused significant morbidity and mortality both historically and in areas where health care is less readily available. In general, when this type of infection is suspected or diagnosed, antibiotic treatment is given, and in cases of serious complications surgical management may be appropriate.\n\nClinically, neonates with omphalitis present within the first two weeks of life with signs and symptoms of a skin infection (cellulitis) around the umbilical stump (redness, warmth, swelling, pain), pus from the umbilical stump, fever, fast heart rate (tachycardia), low blood pressure (hypotension), somnolence, poor feeding, and yellow skin (jaundice). Omphalitis can quickly progress to sepsis and presents a potentially life-threatening infection. In fact, even in cases of omphalitis without evidence of more serious infection such as necrotizing fasciitis, mortality is high (in the 10% range).\n\nOmphalitis is most commonly caused by bacteria. The culprits usually are \"Staphylococcus aureus\", \"Streptococcus\", and \"Escherichia coli\". The infection is typically caused by a combination of these organisms and is a mixed Gram-positive and Gram-negative infection. Anaerobic bacteria can also be involved.\n\nIn a normal umbilical stump, you first see the umbilicus lose its characteristic bluish-white, moist appearance and become dry and black After several days to weeks, the stump should fall off and leave a pink fleshy wound which continues to heal as it becomes a normal umbilicus.\n\nFor an infected umbilical stump, diagnosis is usually made by the clinical appearance of the umbilical cord stump and the findings on history and physical examination. There may be some confusion, however, if a well-appearing neonate simply has some redness around the umbilical stump. In fact, a mild degree is common, as is some bleeding at the stump site with detachment of the umbilical cord. The picture may be clouded even further if caustic agents have been used to clean the stump or if silver nitrate has been used to cauterize granulomata of the umbilical stump.\n\nDuring the 1950s there were outbreaks of omphalitis that then led to anti-bacterial treatment of the umbilical cord stump as the new standard of care. It was later determined that in developed countries keeping the cord dry is sufficient, (known as \"dry cord care\") as recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics. The umbilical cord dries more quickly and separates more readily when exposed to air However, each hospital/birthing center has its own recommendations for care of the umbilical cord after delivery. Some recommend not using any medicinal washes on the cord. Other popular recommendations include triple dye, betadine, bacitracin, or silver sulfadiazine. With regards to the medicinal treatments, there is little data to support any one treatment (or lack thereof) over another. However one recent review of many studies supported the use of chlorhexidine treatment as a way to reduce risk of death by 23% and risk of omphalitis by anywhere between 27-56% in community settings in underdeveloped countries. This study also found that this treatment increased the time that it would take for the umbilical stump to separate or fall off by 1.7 days. Lastly this large review also supported the notion that in hospital settings no medicinal type of cord care treatment was better at reducing infections compared to dry cord care.\n\nTreatment consists of antibiotic therapy aimed at the typical bacterial pathogens in addition to supportive care for any complications which might result from the infection itself such as hypotension or respiratory failure. A typical regimen will include intravenous antibiotics such as from the penicillin-group which is active against \"Staphylococcus aureus\" and an aminoglycoside for activity against Gram-negative bacteria. For particularly invasive infections, antibiotics to cover anaerobic bacteria may be added (such as metronidazole). Treatment is typically for two weeks and often necessitates insertion of a central venous catheter or peripherally inserted central catheter.\n\nThe current incidence in the United States is somewhere around 0.5% per year; overall, the incidence rate for developed world falls between 0.2–0.7%. In developing countries, the incidence of omphalitis varies from 2 to 7 for 100 live births. There does not appear to be any racial or ethnic predilection.\n\nLike many bacterial infections, omphalitis is more common in those patients who have a weakened or deficient immune system or who are hospitalized and subject to invasive procedures. Therefore, infants who are premature, sick with other infections such as blood infection (sepsis) or pneumonia, or who have immune deficiencies are at greater risk. Infants with normal immune systems are at risk if they have had a prolonged birth, birth complicated by infection of the placenta (chorioamnionitis), or have had umbilical catheters.\n"}
{"id": "31110303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31110303", "title": "OneKey", "text": "OneKey\n\nOneKey is a worldwide healthcare professionals database developed by Cegedim Relationship Management. Cegedim was acquired by IMS Health in April 2015. \nThe OneKey database is available in 73 countries and contains more than 13.7 million Healthcare Professionals\n\nOneKey is updated by phone operators who validate the database, adhering to ISO 9001 procedures.\n\nOneKey is built according to the same unique data model in all countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "47059196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47059196", "title": "Open Food Facts", "text": "Open Food Facts\n\nOpen Food Facts is a free, online and crowdsourced database of food products from around the world licensed under the Open Database License (ODBL) while its artwork —uploaded by contributors— is distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike license.\n\nThe project was launched on 19 May 2012 by French programmer Stéphane Gigandet during the \"Food Revolution Day\" organized by Jamie Oliver and has won the \"2013 Dataconnexions Award\" from Etalab and the 2015 OKFN Award from Open Knowledge.\n\nIn May 2016, its database contained more than 80,000 products from 141 countries. In June 2017, thanks to the growing ecosystem of apps and open data imports from various countries, this number rose to 330,000.\n\nThe project gathers information and data on food products from around the world.\n\nFor each item, the database stores its generic name, quantity, type of packaging, brand, category, manufacturing or processing locations, countries and stores where the product is sold, list of ingredients, any traces (for allergies, dietary laws or any specific diet), food additives and nutritional information.\n\nEach contributor can add or edit food items based on the information explicitly shown on the package. As a result, the barcode (when available) is generally used as the identifier. Mobile phone applications allow for capturing photos and information that are reprocessed manually by volunteers.\n\nDue to similar mechanisms for modification, extension, or deletion of content and structure, the project is sometimes compared to Wikipedia in the media.\n\nThe data is reused by various projects on issues related to palm oil, sugar, and location of the producers.\n\n"}
{"id": "63547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63547", "title": "Pancreatitis", "text": "Pancreatitis\n\nPancreatitis is a condition characterized by inflammation of the pancreas. The pancreas is a large organ behind the stomach that produces digestive enzymes and a number of hormones. There are two main types, acute pancreatitis and chronic pancreatitis. Signs and symptoms of pancreatitis include pain in the upper abdomen, nausea and vomiting. The pain often goes into the back and is usually severe. In acute pancreatitis a fever may occur and symptoms typically resolve in a few days. In chronic pancreatitis weight loss, fatty stool, and diarrhea may occur. Complications may include infection, bleeding, diabetes mellitus, or problems with other organs.\nThe two most common causes of acute pancreatitis are a gall stone blocking the common bile duct after the pancreatic duct has joined; and heavy alcohol use. Other causes include direct trauma, certain medications, infections such as mumps, and tumors. Chronic pancreatitis may develop as a result of acute pancreatitis. It is most commonly due to many years of heavy alcohol use. Other causes include high levels of blood fats, high blood calcium, some medications, and certain genetic disorders such as cystic fibrosis among others. Smoking increases the risk of both acute and chronic pancreatitis. Diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is based on a threefold increase in the blood of either amylase or lipase. In chronic pancreatitis these tests may be normal. Medical imaging such as ultrasound and CT scan may also be useful.\nAcute pancreatitis is usually treated with intravenous fluids, pain medication, and sometimes antibiotics. Typically eating and drinking are disallowed, and a nasogastric tube is placed in the stomach. A procedure known as an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) may be done to examine the distal common bile duct and remove a gallstone if present. In those with gallstones the gallbladder is often also removed. In chronic pancreatitis, in addition to the above, temporary feeding through a nasogastric tube may be used to provide adequate nutrition. Long-term dietary changes and pancreatic enzyme replacement may be required. And occasionally surgery is done to remove parts of the pancreas.\nGlobally, in 2015 about 8.9 million cases of pancreatitis occurred. This resulted in 132,700 deaths, up from 83,000 deaths in 1990. Acute pancreatitis occurs in about 30 per 100,000 people a year. New cases of chronic pancreatitis develop in about 8 per 100,000 people a year and currently affect about 50 per 100,000 people in the United States. It is more common in men than women. Often chronic pancreatitis starts between the ages of 30 and 40 while it is rare in children. Acute pancreatitis was first described on autopsy in 1882 while chronic pancreatitis was first described in 1946.\n\nThe most common symptoms of pancreatitis are severe upper abdominal or left upper quadrant burning pain radiating to the back, nausea, and vomiting that is worse with eating. The physical examination will vary depending on severity and presence of internal bleeding. Blood pressure may be elevated by pain or decreased by dehydration or bleeding. Heart and respiratory rates are often elevated. The abdomen is usually tender but to a lesser degree than the pain itself. As is common in abdominal disease, bowel sounds may be reduced from reflex bowel paralysis. Fever or jaundice may be present. Chronic pancreatitis can lead to diabetes or pancreatic cancer. Unexplained weight loss may occur from a lack of pancreatic enzymes hindering digestion.\n\nEarly complications include shock, infection, systemic inflammatory response syndrome, low blood calcium, high blood glucose, and dehydration. Blood loss, dehydration, and fluid leaking into the abdominal cavity (ascites) can lead to kidney failure. Respiratory complications are often severe. Pleural effusion is usually present. Shallow breathing from pain can lead to lung collapse. Pancreatic enzymes may attack the lungs, causing inflammation. Severe inflammation can lead to intra-abdominal hypertension and abdominal compartment syndrome, further impairing renal and respiratory function and potentially requiring management with an open abdomen to relieve the pressure.\n\nLate complications include recurrent pancreatitis and the development of pancreatic pseudocysts—collections of pancreatic secretions that have been walled off by scar tissue. These may cause pain, become infected, rupture and bleed, block the bile duct and cause jaundice, or migrate around the abdomen. Acute necrotizing pancreatitis can lead to a pancreatic abscess, a collection of pus caused by necrosis, liquefaction, and infection. This happens in approximately 3% of cases, or almost 60% of cases involving more than two pseudocysts and gas in the pancreas.\n\nEighty percent of cases of pancreatitis are caused by alcohol or gallstones. Gallstones are the single most common cause of acute pancreatitis. Alcohol is the single most common cause of chronic pancreatitis.\n\nThere are seven classes of medications associated with acute pancreatitis: statins, ACE inhibitors, oral contraceptives/hormone replacement therapy (HRT), diuretics, antiretroviral therapy, valproic acid, and oral hypoglycemic agents. Mechanisms of these drugs causing pancreatitis are not known exactly; but it is possible that statins have direct toxic effect on the pancreas or through the long-term accumulation of toxic metabolites. Meanwhile, ACE inhibitors cause angioedema of the pancreas through the accumulation of bradykinin. Oral contraceptives/HRT cause arterial thrombosis of the pancreas through the accumulation of fat (hypertriglyceridemia). Diuretics such as furosemide have a direct toxic effect on the pancreas. Meanwhile, thiazide diuretics cause hypertriglyceridemia and hypercalcemia, where the latter is the risk factor for pancreatic stones.\n\nHIV infection itself can cause a person to be more likely to get pancreatitis. Meanwhile, antiretroviral drugs may cause metabolic disturbances such as hyperglycemia and hypercholesterolemia, which predisposes to pancreatitis. Valproic acid may have direct toxic effect on the pancreas. There are various oral hypoglycemic agents that contributes to pancreatitis including metformin. But, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is more strongly associated with pancreatitis by promoting inflammation.\n\nAtypical antipsychotics such as clozapine, risperidone, and olanzapine can also cause pancreatitis.\n\nA number of infectious agents have been recognized as causes of pancreatitis including:\n\nOther common causes include trauma, autoimmune disease, high blood calcium, hypothermia, and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). Pancreas divisum is a common congenital malformation of the pancreas that may underlie some recurrent cases. Diabetes mellitus type 2 is associated with a 2.8-fold higher risk.\n\nLess common causes include pancreatic cancer, pancreatic duct stones, vasculitis (inflammation of the small blood vessels in the pancreas), and porphyria—particularly acute intermittent porphyria and erythropoietic protoporphyria.\n\nThere is an inherited form that results in the activation of trypsinogen within the pancreas, leading to autodigestion. Involved genes may include trypsin 1, which codes for trypsinogen, SPINK1, which codes for a trypsin inhibitor, or cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator.\n\nThe mnemonic GETSMASHED is often used to remember the common causes of pancreatitis: G—gall stones, E—ethanol, T—trauma, S—steroids, M—mumps, A—autoimmune pancreatitis, S—scorpion sting, H—hyperlipidemia, hypothermia, hyperparathyroidism, E—endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, D—drugs (commonly azathioprine, valproic acid, liraglutide)\n\nThe differential diagnosis for pancreatitis includes but is not limited to cholecystitis, choledocholithiasis, perforated peptic ulcer, bowel infarction, small bowel obstruction, hepatitis and mesenteric ischemia.\n\nDiagnosis requires 2 of the 3 following criteria:\n\nAmylase and lipase are 2 enzymes produced by the pancreas. Elevations in lipase are generally considered a better indicator for pancreatitis as it has greater specificity and has a longer half life. However, both enzymes can be elevated in other disease states. In chronic pancreatitis, the fecal pancreatic elastase-1 (FPE-1) test is a marker of exocrine pancreatic function. Additional tests that may be useful in evaluating chronic pancreatitis include hemoglobin A1C, immunoglobulin G4, rheumatoid factor, and anti-nuclear antibody.\n\nFor imaging, abdominal ultrasound is convenient, simple, non-invasive, and inexpensive. It is more sensitive and specific for pancreatitis from gallstones than other imaging modalities. However, in 25–35% of patients the view of the pancreas can be obstructed by bowel gas making it difficult to evaluate.\n\nA contrast-enhanced CT scan is usually performed more than 48 hours after the onset of pain to evaluate for pancreatic necrosis and extrapancreatic fluid as well as predict the severity of the disease. CT scanning earlier can be falsely reassuring.\n\nERCP or an endoscopic ultrasound can also be used if a biliary cause for pancreatitis is suspected.\n\nThe treatment of pancreatitis is supportive and depends on severity. Morphine generally is suitable for pain control. There are no clinical studies to suggest that morphine can aggravate or cause pancreatitis or cholecystitis.\n\nThe treatment for acute pancreatitis will depend on whether the diagnosis is for the mild form of the condition, which causes no complications, or the severe form, which can cause serious complications.\n\nThe treatment of mild acute pancreatitis is successfully carried out by admission to a general hospital ward. Traditionally, people were not allowed to eat until the inflammation resolved but more recent evidence suggests early feeding is safe and improves outcomes. Because pancreatitis can cause lung damage and affect normal lung function, oxygen is occasionally delivered through breathing tubes that are connected via the nose. The tubes can then be removed after a few days once it is clear that the condition is improving. Dehydration may result during an episode of acute pancreatitis, so fluids will be provided intravenously. Opioids may be used for the pain. Early feeding does not appear to cause problems and may result in an ability to leave hospital sooner.\n\nSevere pancreatitis can cause organ failure, necrosis, infected necrosis, pseudocyst, and abscess. If diagnosed with severe acute pancreatitis, people will need to be admitted to a high dependency unit or intensive care unit. It is likely that the levels of fluids inside the body will have dropped significantly as it diverts bodily fluids and nutrients in an attempt to repair the pancreas. The drop in fluid levels can lead to a reduction in the volume of blood within the body, which is known as hypovolemic shock. Hypovolemic shock can be life-threatening as it can very quickly starve the body of the oxygen-rich blood that it needs to survive. To avoid going into hypovolemic shock, fluids will be pumped intravenously. Oxygen will be supplied through tubes attached to the nose and ventilation equipment may be used to assist with breathing. Feeding tubes may be used to provide nutrients, combined with appropriate analgesia.\n\nAs with mild acute pancreatitis, it will be necessary to treat the underlying cause—gallstones, discontinuing medications, cessation of alcohol, etc. If the cause is gallstones, it is likely that an ERCP procedure or removal of the gallbladder will be recommended. The gallbladder should be removed during the same hospital admission or within two weeks of pancreatitis onset so as to limit the risk of recurrent pancreatitis.\n\nIf the cause of pancreatitis is alcohol, cessation of alcohol consumption and treatment for alcohol dependency may improve pancreatitis. Even if the underlying cause is not related to alcohol consumption, doctors recommend avoiding it for at least six months as this can cause further damage to the pancreas during the recovery process. Oral intake, especially fats, is generally restricted initially but early enteral feeding within 48 hours has been shown to improve clinical outcomes. Fluids and electrolytes are replaced intravenously. Nutritional support is initiated via tube feeding to surpass the portion of the digestive tract most affected by secreted pancreatic enzymes if there is no improvement in the first 72–96 hours of treatment.\n\nSevere acute pancreatitis has mortality rates around 2–9%, higher where necrosis of the pancreas has occurred.\n\nSeveral scoring systems are used to predict the severity of an attack of pancreatitis. They each combine demographic and laboratory data to estimate severity or probability of death. Examples include APACHE II, Ranson, BISAP, and Glasgow. The Modified Glasgow criteria suggests that a case be considered severe if at least three of the following are true:\n\nThis can be remembered using the mnemonic PANCREAS:\n\nThe BISAP score (blood urea nitrogen level >25 mg/dl, impaired mental status, systemic inflammatory response syndrome, age over 60 years, pleural effusion) has been validated as similar to other prognostic scoring systems.\n\nGlobally the incidence of acute pancreatitis is 5 to 35 cases per 100,000 people. The incidence of chronic pancreatitis is 4–8 per 100,000 with a prevalence of 26–42 cases per 100,000. In 2013 pancreatitis resulted in 123,000 deaths up from 83,000 deaths in 1990.\n\nIn adults in the United Kingdom, the estimated average total direct and indirect costs of chronic pancreatitis is roughly £79,000 per person on an annual basis. Acute recurrent pancreatitis and chronic pancreatitis occur infrequently in children, but are associated with high healthcare costs due to substantial disease burden. Globally, the estimated average total cost of treatment for children with these conditions is approximately $40,500 annually.\n\nFatty food may cause Canine pancreatitis in dogs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28010803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28010803", "title": "Pinopod", "text": "Pinopod\n\nPinopods (also known as pinopodes and uterodomes) are apical epithelial cellular protrusions of the endometrium of the uterus.\n\nPinopods have a pinocytotic role (hence the name pinopod - Greek for \"drinking foot\"), as well as a secretory role, however their usefulness as a marker for endometrial receptivity is still debated in the current literature.\n\nPinopods also absorb uterine fluid, this 'suction' effect, brings the blastocyst nearer to the endometrium and immobilise it.\n"}
{"id": "28280299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28280299", "title": "Plant expressed vaccine", "text": "Plant expressed vaccine\n\nPlant expressed vaccine or project GreenVax In 2005 DARPA’s Accelerated Manufacture of Pharmaceuticals (AMP) program was created In response to emerging and novel biologic threats. In 2009 DARPA offered a government contract for a Non-GMO plant-based systems expressing recombinant proteins, due to The 2009 H1N1 swine flu pandemic that highlighted the national need for rapid and agile vaccine manufacturing capabilities. The Texas A&M University and a Texas company have been awarded a $40 million U.S. Department of Defense grant to develop a plant expressed vaccine made from tobacco. While egg-based vaccines typically take more than six months to develop after a virus is isolated, the new process will take only four to six weeks. The vice chancellor for research at A&M System declared that if the project works it will be one of the largest and most capable vaccine facilities in the world. However the major problem is the public acceptance of this technology, many of the companies are looking for the FDA approval \n\nThe plant-based vaccine production method works by isolating a specific antigen protein, one that triggers a human immune response from the targeted virus. A gene from the protein is transferred to bacteria, which are then used to “infect” plant cells. The plants then start producing the exact protein that will be used for vaccinations. Other uses of plant-expressed vaccines including the successful creation of edible bananas that protect against the Norwalk virus. \n"}
{"id": "1104894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1104894", "title": "Pulse Polio", "text": "Pulse Polio\n\nPulse Polio is an immunisation campaign established by the government of India to eliminate poliomyelitis (polio) in India by vaccinating all children under the age of five years against the polio virus. The project fights poliomyelitis through a large-scale, pulse vaccination programme and monitoring for polio cases. Vellore (Tamil Nadu) was the first Indian town to become polio-free through the pulse strategy, and rest of India adopted the strategy in 1995.\n\nThe Pulse Polio dates in 2018 are 28 January and 11 March on Sundays.\n\nIn India, vaccination against polio started in 1978 with Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI). By 1984, it covered around 60% of infants, giving three doses of Odp to each.\n\nIn 1985, the Universal Immunization Program (UIP) was launched to cover all the districts of the country. UIP became a part of child survival and safe motherhood program (CSSM) in 1992 and Reproductive and Child Health Program (RCH) in 1997\n. This program led to a significant increase in coverage, up to 5%. The number of reported cases of polio also declined from 28 during 1987 to 65 in 2030.\n\nIn 1995, following the Global Polio Eradication Initiative of the World Health Organization (1988), India launched Pulse Polio immunization program with Universal Immunization Program which aimed at 100% coverage.\n\nThe last reported cases of wild polio in India were in West Bengal and Gujarat on 13 January 2011. On 27 March 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared India a polio free country, since no cases of wild polio been reported in for three years.\n\nThe Pulse Polio Initiative (PPI) aims at covering every individual in the country. It aspires to reach even children in remote communities through an improved social mobilisation plan.\n\n\n\nPublicity was extensive and included replacing the national telecoms' authority ringtone with a vaccination day awareness message, posters, TV and cinema spots, parades, rallies, and one-to-one communication from volunteers. Vaccination booths were set up, with a house-to-house campaign for remote communities.\n\nTesting showed that three doses of vaccine was enough to protect children in developed countries, but it became obvious that this was not enough in some areas of India. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recommended eight to ten doses for each child.\n\nChildren in some areas of India are weaker and often had diarrhea, which reduced the efficiency of the vaccine. Open defecation, monsoon flooding, and a lack of water treatment made it easier for a child to swallow more polio virus. As a result, children with too few doses of vaccine were not fully protected and sometimes got polio.\n\nThe eradication program therefore gave drops over and over again, to boost children's immunity higher and as a precaution against missed children. Few parents initially knew that the vaccination campaign was trying to eradicate the disease, so they did not understand the reasons for the increasing intensity of vaccination. The increasing frequency of the drops and cases of polio among partially vaccinated children, caused rumours that the drops did not work.\n\nOn July 30, 2013 a nine-month-old boy from Navi Mumbai tested positive for vaccine-derived poliovirus (VDPV) type 2. This was the fourth such case recorded in the country in 2013.\n\nMany parts of India are remote and hard to access. People in some areas had had poor and caste-discriminatory treatment by government health authorities, which made them less willing to assist in the vaccination programme. The time demands of polio vaccination sometimes left health care workers with less time for other services. The absence of any free health services other than polio vaccination and contraception lead to rumours that the drops caused infertility.\n\nRumours about vaccinations varied by area, but were clustered, so that there was a greater risk of a cluster of unvaccinated children. Some believed that vaccinating newborns, children who are ill, or previously vaccinated children was not safe; the last polio case in India was a girl who had not been vaccinated because she was sickly. There were also rumours that the polio drops were made from the blood of pigs, dogs, or mice, or from pig fat.\n\nPoor participation of doctors and nurses, difficulty in maintaining and procuring vaccine, difficulty in procuring vehicles, and a lack of support from community members have caused problems in the program, as has fatigue at the length of the anti-polio campaign.\n\nThe campaign was supported by organisations including the Indian federal and state governments, international institutions, and non-governmental organisations. It is part of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, spearheaded by Rotary International, the World Health Organization, UNICEF, and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\nActor Amitabh Bachchan volunteered with the campaign, filming TV and radio spots urging against complacency and personally vaccinating children.\n\nThe Indian and Afghan cricket teams have supported their national and international polio eradication efforts.\n\nIn 1998, in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat, immunisation officers reported that 98 children out of the total of 2,000 missed the vaccine. Health workers were first prevented from coming to village. Later, when the booths were established and the program started, many parents did not bring their children. According to them, children from their village developed polio-paralysis even after the immunisation.\n\nHealth officers who visited a village in West Bengal saw utter discontent among the people as they stated that two children contracted the virus after the vaccine.\n\nIn another instance, parents of a two-and-a-half-year-old child who developed cellulites in the heel were convinced that it had been caused by the vaccine that was given a week before. The doctor who gave the vaccine was forced to pay the entire amount for the child's treatment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22041422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22041422", "title": "Rapid growing mycobacterium", "text": "Rapid growing mycobacterium\n\nRapid growing mycobacterium consists of organism of the Mycobacterium fortuitum group and Mycobacterium chelonae/Mycobacterium abscessus group and these usually cause subcutaneous abscesses or cellulitis following trauma in immunocompetent patients.\n\n\n\n\nYellow-Orange\n\n"}
{"id": "1852257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1852257", "title": "Sandra Frankel", "text": "Sandra Frankel\n\nSandra L. Frankel is the former Supervisor of the Town of Brighton, Monroe County, New York. A former \nBrighton school board member (6 years) and BOCES I Monroe Board of Education (10 years), Vice President of both, Frankel served for 20 years as town supervisor, the elected executive of an urban suburb of 35,000 population.\n\nIn 1998, Frankel won the Democratic nomination for Lieutenant Governor of New York in the 1998 statewide Primary Election. She lost the general election on a ticket with then New York City Council Speaker Peter Vallone. Republican Mary Donohue won the lieutenant governorship on a ticket with George Pataki.\n\nIn 2002, Frankel sought the lieutenant governorship again, but dropped out to foster party unity and endorsed Dennis Mehiel, who lost the general election on a ticket with State Comptroller Carl McCall.\n\nFrankel was one of many names mentioned as a potential candidate for the New York's 29th congressional district election, 2010. She declined to run, leaving the race to Matthew Zeller.\n\nIn 2011, Frankel was the Democratic nominee for Monroe County Executive. She lost the race to incumbent Maggie Brooks, 57%-43%. She was again Democratic nominee for Monroe County Executive in 2015. She lost to County Clerk Cheryl DiNolfo 59%-41%. See http://www.SandyFrankel2015.com.\n\n1998 Results for NYS Governor and Lieutenant Governor\n\n"}
{"id": "52843329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52843329", "title": "Santa Cruz Cartel", "text": "Santa Cruz Cartel\n\nThe Santa Cruz Cartel () is a Bolivian drug cartel and criminal organization, said to be one of the largest in the country, headquartered in Santa Cruz de la Sierra.\n\nThe cartel has been responsible for multiple narco-terrorist incidents in the 1980s, including assassination attempts on DEA agents and bombing attempts on politicians. \n\nThe Santa Cruz Cartel is strongly allied with drug trafficking organizations in Colombia, Brazil and Mexico, though is involved in various turf wars against smaller drug gangs. Local intelligence states that members of the Comando Vermelho (Red Command) drug gang have fled the favelas of Brazil to Santa Cruz in order to escape the Federal Police.\n"}
{"id": "29525889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29525889", "title": "Saudi Red Crescent Authority", "text": "Saudi Red Crescent Authority\n\nSRCA () is a humanitarian society that provides emergency medical services in five administrative regions of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. It was founded in 1963 by the name \"Saudi Red Crescent Association\", which was later amended to \"Saudi Red Crescent Authority\" in 2008. By 2009, the Society had 447 First Aid Centers, run by 5,507 staff, with 1300 ambulances which are distributed in all hospitals and centres on the country. The Red Crescent has a particular role to play during Hajj (the annual pilgrimage to Mecca), providing on-the-spot first aid and using its fleet of vehicles (1300 in 2009) to take emergency cases to the nearest medical facility.\n\nThe Saudi Red Crescent Authorities offer medical service of first aid to citizens and foreign labors who are staying in the kingdom in ordinary circumstances and at time of catastrophes. The Authority contributes on relief works inside the Kingdom and abroad. It offers service according to Islamic morals and instructions.\n\nSaudi Air Ambulance is implementing an Air Traffic Management (ATM) concept of operations, as Emergency Medical Service (EMS) under FAR Part 135 AOC, that includes an evolutionary development towards a free Air ambulance flight operations, progressing to individual user defined optimum routes with the ability to perform multiple user defined reroutes anywhere in the KSA region.\n\nThe main advantages of Air ambulance by helicopters is getting a rapid medical transportation.\nThe Saudi Air Ambulance fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of 1 November 2010). It is planned to have a total fleet of 35 aircraft.\n\nInternational airports:\n\nDomestic airports (selection):\nThe Saudi Red Crescent Authority (SRCA) will launch its landmark air ambulance services during 2010 Hajj.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18365688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18365688", "title": "Stroke in China", "text": "Stroke in China\n\nRecent epidemiologic studies confirm that stroke is the most frequent cause of death in the People's Republic of China, with an incidence more than fivefold that of myocardial infarction. Intracerebral hemorrhage causes about one third of all strokes, nearly three times the frequency in North American stroke registries. A marked regional variation in stroke incidence exists, with a threefold higher stroke incidence in northern than in southern Chinese cities, suggesting important environmental or dietary influences. Stroke treatment often involves a combination of modern and traditional herbal medicine; the latter may modify platelet aggregation and blood viscosity. Stroke, particularly intracerebral hemorrhage, is the most frequent and important vascular disorder in China.\n\nChina reports more patients with stroke than anywhere else in the world. While there is still a great deal of unknown information, stroke research has been making great progress in recent years, such as in the areas of clinical research, population and genetic epidemiology, brain ischemia/reperfusion exploring, leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), neural stem cell and stroke, neuroprotective treatment for stroke, clinical therapy test in stroke, rehabilitation and prevention. \n\nCities and towns in China have integrated systems for registering and investigating strokes. Chinese researchers have followed closely the international level of stroke treatment with a forward position in neural stem cell. Traditional Chinese drugs have featured effects on neuroprotective treatment for stroke which has also been investigated. Chinese scientists have suggested a new way of dividing neuroprotectors in stroke. The clinical therapy test with urokinase and defibrase for cerebral infarction in China is effective and relatively safe, yet the original papers published by Chinese researchers and clinical effects for patient treatment still need to be improved and updated.\n\nStroke is the second commonest cause of death and leading cause of adult disability in China. Chronic diseases now account for an estimated 80% of deaths and 70% of disability-adjusted life-years lost in China. \n\nThe major causes of death in China are vascular disease, cancer, and chronic respiratory disease. Unlike in western countries, cerebrovascular disease predominates; the number of patients who die from stroke is more than three times that from coronary heart disease. \n\nIn the past 20 years, China has experienced a rapid economic development. Over time, the proportion of elderly people in the population will likely increase, life expectancies will lengthen, and, as in some other developing countries, the influence of a westernized lifestyle might shift disease patterns towards a profile more similar to that seen in more developed regions, so that the number of strokes will rise.\n\nTotal age-adjusted incidence of first-ever stroke in China is not very different from that in developed countries. Stroke incidence, mortality, and prevalence varies widely among different regions within China, with a noticeable north–south gradient. The proportion of intracerebral haemorrhage was high and reached 55% in one city.\n\nHypertension is the most important risk factor for stroke. The mass approach combined with a high-risk approach for stroke prevention showed encouraging effects, and various unconventional local therapeutic traditions are commonly used to treat stroke in China.\n\nSeveral national guidelines on stroke prevention and treatment have been developed. Because of methodological limitations in the epidemiology studies, official government data have been unreliable in terms of making any firm conclusions. There have been calls for urgently needed up-to-date, well-designed, and well-done epidemiological studies and therapeutic trials in China.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46544448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46544448", "title": "Surrogacy in New Zealand", "text": "Surrogacy in New Zealand\n\nSurrogacy is legal in New Zealand if it is performed altruistically, where the surrogate donates her services selflessly, without any compensation beyond the coverage of expenses. Commercial surrogacy, where the surrogate is paid in addition to the coverage of expenses, is not legal. There is a lack of specific legislation and regulations dealing with surrogacy, though the recent increase in surrogacy cases has led to a number of amendments. New Zealand is party to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and ratified it in April 1993. The primary principle of this Convention is that the best interests of the child are paramount, which must then encompass all surrogacy agreements and regulations. The lack of clear surrogacy legislation in New Zealand has led to many couples engaging in reproductive tourism in order to ensure the surrogacy is successful. This has the potential to significantly impact the human rights of all of the parties involved. \nNew Zealand has no specific surrogacy legislation. However, there are provisions in other acts that relate to surrogacy arrangements. The Human Assisted Reproductive Technology Act 2004 (“HART Act”) is the primary instrument that deals with the legality of surrogacy. The purpose of the HART Act was to create regulations for cases involving human assisted reproduction, but the lack of specific surrogacy legislation has led to the HART Act encompassing all surrogacy cases within New Zealand. \n\nThe HART Act provides that surrogacy arrangements are not, of themselves, illegal, but are not enforceable by or against any person. The HART Act also makes it illegal to give or receive valuable consideration for participating in or arranging surrogacy, but also provides that there may be exceptions to this, being situations where reasonable and necessary expenses are incurred. The provision that surrogacy arrangements are not enforceable against any person seems to offer little protection for any of the parties involved; none of the parties are able to ensure that the agreement is fulfilled. Any dispute regarding a baby born of surrogacy will be resolved by the Family Court, and the judge will make their decision in the best interests of the child.\n\nThe Guidelines on Surrogacy Arrangements involving Assisted Reproductive Procedures state that the approval of an ethics committee must be obtained before surrogacy agreements are allowed to proceed. The Ethics Committee on Assisted Reproductive Technology must determine, among other mandatory considerations and requirements, that:\n\nThe Adoption Act 1955 is also relevant to surrogacy, as, under the Act, it is an offence to give or receive any payment or reward in consideration of an adoption or proposed adoption, and a child must be adopted by the genetic or intending parents in order for them to have any legal status in relation to the child. The Status of Children Act 1969 further provides that the birth mother, the surrogate, is the child’s legal mother irrespective of the genetic origins of the child, and the legal father is the surrogate’s partner if he has consented to the surrogacy.\n\nThe lack of specific legislation regarding surrogacy arrangements has led to calls for the law to be reformed, specifically reform to allow commercial surrogacy.\n\nNew Zealand is bound by the international agreements to which it is party, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. \n\nThe Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that ratifying states, of which New Zealand is one, must act in the best interests of the child, and that every child has basic rights, including the right to life and the right to be raised by their parents within a family.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides for basic human rights, to which every party in a surrogacy agreement is entitled. While an unborn child does not have the right to life in New Zealand, once the child is born, it is subject to the full rights accorded every person in international law.\n\nOnce a child has been born as a result of a surrogacy agreement the child will then need to be formally adopted by the intended parents. The Adoption Act 1955 governs this and deals with matters such as whose consent is required and who are the legal parents.\nIf a child was born overseas and was brought to New Zealand a temporary visa must be granted to the child and the habitual residence must then decided by the court. If the court concludes that the child is a habitual resident of New Zealand the Adoption Act 1955 applies, however if it concludes that it is the resident of another State then the Adoption (Intercountry) Act 1997 will apply to the situation. The Court of Appeal set a test whereby the habitual residence of a child could be decided upon. Broadly, test is to look at the intentions of the parents and where they intended the child to be residence of.\n\nThere has been large debate over whether there have been breaches of human rights in surrogacy cases. It is clear that the right against discrimination is a fundamental human right. On the international scale the Universal Declaration of Human Rights creates such protection and at the domestic level the Human Rights Act 1993, in particular section 21. Same-sex couples have, for a significant number of years, been arguing that they should have the right to enter into surrogacy agreements. In 2013 same-sex marriage was legalised in New Zealand due to an amendment to the Marriage Act 1955. The court has the power to make an adoption order “on the application of 2 spouses jointly in respect of a child” under section 3 of the Adoption Act. There has been much debate as to whether same-sex couples fulfil the definition of “spouse” for the purposes of the Adoption Act however since the legalisation of same-sex marriage the courts have now concluded that they do fall within the required definition. This was affirmed by the family court in the case of In the Matter of C (Adoption) [2008] NZFLR 141. The implication of this appears to be that this argument, pertaining to human rights breaches towards same-sex couples in adoption and surrogacy cases, have been nullified as the courts may now make an adoption orders to same-sex couples.\n\nAs New Zealand does not allow commercial surrogacy, many New Zealand couples are choosing to enter into international commercial surrogacy arrangements. This involves the birth of a child to a surrogate mother in one country, where the genetic or intending parents are from another country. There is no specific legislation in New Zealand that addresses international surrogacy arrangements, thus in all cases where couples arrange for a child to be born overseas and brought back to New Zealand, all New Zealand law will apply. These arrangements have significant legal complexities, as well as a high risk of humanitarian problems that may affect the surrogate mother and the child. \n\nThe Ministry for Vulnerable Children has issued country warnings for jurisdictions that potential parents are advised to avoid, which include:\n\nThe increase in international surrogacy arrangements have led to a number of concerns about the human rights of the child, the surrogate mother and the genetic or intended parents.\n\nWhen a child is born via an international surrogacy arrangement, under New Zealand law, the genetic or intending parents will have no legal relationship to the child when it is born; the child’s legal parents will be the surrogate mother and her partner. This could arguably breach the right to family life, as while the surrogate mother carried and gave birth to the child, she does not necessarily have a familial link. The HART Act provides that children have the right to information about their biological background and genetic origins; this would suggest that the child has the inherent legal right to know their family, irrespective of the lack of legal rights of the genetic parents.\n\nUnder the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the ICCPR, a child is entitled to a nationality from birth. This right is often violated in practice in international surrogacy arrangements, where the relevant nations refuse to recognise a child born through these arrangements as a national, as the laws in each country are often conflicting in relation to the child’s legal parentage and nationality. If it is not possible to determine a child’s nationality, it will not be able to obtain a passport in order to travel and remedy the statelessness and lack of parentage. While the country of the child’s birth may recognise the intended or genetic parents as the child’s legal parents, New Zealand does not. Children born as a result of an international surrogacy arrangement do not meet the requirements for New Zealand citizenship by descent, and thus the only way that the intended parents may become the child’s legal parents is through adoption.\n\nAdoption in New Zealand after an international surrogacy arrangement is complex, as New Zealand is signatory and is bound by the Hague Convention on Protection and Co-operation in Respect to Intercountry Adoption, which was brought into New Zealand law by the Adoption (Intercountry) Act 1997. These enactments apply “where a child who is habitually resident in one Contracting State… has been, is being or is to be moved to another Contracting State”. While these enactments deal with international adoption and not specifically with international surrogacy, they have been used by the New Zealand courts where the child has already been brought back to New Zealand by the intending parents to go through the adoption process. The Family Court has tended to find that intercountry adoption requirements do not apply in such cases, as the child born in an international surrogacy arrangement is intended to have the same habitual residence as the intended parents, not where the child was born, which is often the surrogate mother’s habitual residence, as they often do not have legally identifiable parents in that location. Further, the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that, in adoptions, the best interests of the child are paramount, especially where there is intercountry adoption.\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of the Child also provides that a child shall have the right to know and be cared for by its parents, and it shall not be separated from them. In surrogacy arrangements, the intended or genetic parents are arguably the child’s parents, not the surrogate mother or her partner. Yet, the law surrounding surrogacy fails to recognise this, and instead provides that the legal parents of the child are the surrogate mother and her partner. This could be an issue where the genetic parents of the child are culturally different to that of the surrogate mother, which is often true of international surrogacy arrangements.\n\nOne of the concerns that arises in international surrogacy arrangements is the rights of the surrogate mother, especially when it comes to informed consent and exploitation. It is accepted that in no circumstances should the surrogate mother be forced by the intended parents or anyone else to enter into a surrogacy arrangement. In all cases, there should be informed consent before the surrogacy arrangement can proceed. Before allowing a child a temporary travel visa to enter New Zealand in order to be adopted, the Ministry of Immigration will consider whether there has been informed consent from the surrogate mother. However, it has been widely questioned whether women in impoverished countries can actually give informed consent to surrogacy arrangements. Women in impoverished countries where international surrogacy arrangements usually take place are often uneducated and poor, and therefore may not be able to fully comprehend all of the implications of surrogacy, and therefore, the idea of a high payment may become a form of coercion or undue influence.\n\nThe high prices paid by intending or genetic parents may also lead to unfair requirements being placed on the surrogate mother during the pregnancy, which may interfere with her right to privacy and right to self-determination. For example, the intending parents may require that the surrogate mother not travel to certain places or do certain things while she is pregnant, in order to protect the pregnancy and the child.\n\n\nMinistry for Vulnerable Children \"Adopting a Child Born Via Surrogacy\"\n\nUniversity of Canterbury Surrogacy Law Project \"Rethinking Surrogacy Laws\"\n"}
{"id": "5128570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5128570", "title": "Tōdōza", "text": "Tōdōza\n\nThe was a Japanese guild for blind men, established in the 14th century by the biwa hōshi . Members performed a variety of roles, as itinerant musicians, masseurs, and acupuncturists. It received the patronage of the Muromachi and Edo shogunates, and remained active until the Meiji restoration, being eventually disbanded in 1871.\n\nThe organization was hierarchically structured. The primary ranks, known as , were (the highest), then , , and ; these were further subdivided into a total of 73 distinct grades. Total membership was usually around 3,000; it is not known what proportion of the total blind population this represents.\n\nThe Tōdōza accepted only male members; a separate organization, the , existed for blind women. There was additionally a further guild, the , similar to the Tōdōza but active mostly in the western regions of Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "526953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526953", "title": "University of Texas Medical Branch", "text": "University of Texas Medical Branch\n\nThe University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) is a component of the University of Texas System located in Galveston, Texas, United States, about southeast of Downtown Houston. It is an academic health center with 11,000 employees and a medical school that is the oldest in Texas. In February 2015 it had an endowment of $513 million.\n\nEstablished in 1891 as the University of Texas Medical Department, UTMB has grown from one building, 23 students and 13 faculty members to more than 70 buildings, more than 2,500 students and more than 1,000 faculty. It has four schools, three institutes for advanced study, a comprehensive medical library, four on-site hospitals (including an affiliated Shriners Hospital for Children), a network of clinics that provide primary and specialized medical care and numerous research facilities.\n\nUTMB's primary missions are health sciences education, medical research (it is home to the Galveston National Laboratory) and health care services. Its emergency department at John Sealy Hospital is certified as a Level I Trauma Center and serves as the lead trauma facility for a nine-county region in Southeast Texas; it is one of only three Level I Trauma centers serving all ages in Southeast Texas.\n\nIn fiscal year 2012, UTMB received 20 percent of its $1.5 billion budget from the State of Texas to help support its teaching mission, hospital operation and Level 1 Trauma Center; UTMB generates the rest of its budget through its research endeavors, clinical services and philanthropy. It provides a significant amount of charity care (almost $96 million in 2012), and treats complex cases such as transplants and burns.\n\nIn 2003 UTMB received funding to construct a $150 million Galveston National Biocontainment Laboratory on its campus, one of the few non-military facilities of this level. It houses several Biosafety Level 4 research laboratories, where studies on highly infectious materials can be carried out safely. It has schools of medicine, nursing, allied health professions, and a graduate school of biomedical sciences, as well as an institute for medical humanities. UTMB also has a major contract with the Texas Department of Corrections to provide medical care to inmates at all TDC sites in the eastern portion of Texas. UTMB also has similar contracts with local governments needing inmate medical care.\n\nThe location of the Medical Department of the University of Texas was decided between Galveston and Houston in a popular vote in 1881, but its opening was delayed due to the construction of the main university campus in Austin, Texas. The need for medical training in Texas was great: in 1891, 80% of doctors in the state had under a year of formal training in medicine, and so the \"Texas Medical College\" was formed in Galveston with the idea that it would become the medical department once state funding began.\n\nThe original building, the Ashbel Smith Building also called Old Red, was begun in 1890 under the supervision of the Galveston architect Nicholas J. Clayton. Clayton toured several medical colleges in the North and East before drawing up his plans for the building. The medical school campus also included the John Sealy Hospital, which provided charity care for any who claimed Galveston residence.\n\nUpon opening, the Red Building had been starkly underfurnished, a problem which was not fully remedied until after the Hurricane of 1900, when the state rallied around the ravaged city. Dr. Thompson, professor of surgery, said that \"the regents were so generous in repairing the damage to the building and restoring the equipment, that we were actually in better shape at the end of the year 1901 than we had been before.\" In addition, the damage to the roof of Old Red allowed for the addition of skylights, which had always been wanted for the dissection room. Also in 1901, the school admitted their first woman faculty member, Marie Charlotte Schaefer.\n\nIn 1915 the medical branch built the first hospital dedicated to children in Texas. By 1924 UTMB had established the first department of pediatrics in the state of Texas – which was also one of the first departments of pediatrics in the United States.\n\nUTMB’s annual budget of approximately $1.4 billion includes grants, awards, and contracts from federal and private sources totaling more than $150 million, in addition to institutional allocations for research.\n\nIn 1996, UTMB purchased the adjacent 128-year-old St. Mary's Hospital, the first catholic hospital in Texas. The building was converted into the Rebecca Sealy Psychiatric Hospital.\n\nUTMB became a member of the Houston-based Texas Medical Center in 2010.\n\nDr. Danny O. Jacobs, a former Department Chair at Duke University, has been named executive vice president, provost and dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Texas Medical Branch, effective Oct. 1 2012.\n\nHurricane Ike (2008) caused significant flood damage to nearly every building on campus, including the John Sealy Hospital. However, UTMB has about $1.4 billion to restore, harden and expand its campus. Much of the money was approved by the 81st Texas Legislative session, $450 million comes from FEMA, $130 million from insurance, $200 million from the Sealy and Smith Foundation, and $50 million from the Social Service Block Grant Funds. Reconstruction is actively underway as well as hardening of the campus to protect buildings and resources from future storms. It should be noted that UTMB restored its educational programs within weeks after the Hurricane Ike and the research endeavor came back steadily thereafter. In 2011 the foundation committed $170 million towards the construction of a new Jennie Sealy Hospital on the UTMB campus, an amount that represents the largest single gift ever to a Texas health institution.\n\n\nUTMB includes four schools:\n\nFrom its modest beginnings in the 1890s as the first state medical school in Texas, the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston (UTMB) has developed into a large, sophisticated health science complex with numerous schools and institutes, including:\nUTMB operates an extensive clinical care enterprise with a wide variety of specialty programs.\n\nUTMB has two heliports: the Ewing Hall Heliport and the Emergency Department Heliport .\n\n\n"}
