{"id": "18472595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18472595", "title": "1977 Egyptian bread riots", "text": "1977 Egyptian bread riots\n\nThe Egyptian \"bread riots\" of 1977 (, \"\", “The Bread Intifada”) affected most major cities in Egypt from 18–19 January 1977. The riots were a spontaneous uprising carried outby hundreds of thousands of lower-class people protesting World Bank and International Monetary Fund-mandated termination of state subsidies on basic foodstuffs. As many as 70 people were killed and over 550 injured in the protests, which only ceased with the deployment of the army and the re-institution of the subsidies.\n\nThe riots' origin lay in president Anwar Sadat's Infitah (openness) policy, which had -- since he took power at the beginning of the decade -- sought to liberalise the economy. In 1976, he sought loans from the World Bank in an effort to relieve the country's debt burden. The bank criticised the state's policy of subsidising basic foodstuffs, and Sadat announced in January 1977 that it was ending subsidies on flour, rice, and cooking oil and that it would cancel state employee bonuses and pay increases. The new policies resulted in a rise in the price of food by up to 50%.\n\nPopular rejection of the announcement was not long in coming: On 18 and 19 January, rioting by lower-class people who would have been hardest hit by the cancellation of the subsidies erupted across the country, from Aswan in Upper Egypt to Alexandria. For two days, rioters attacked targets that symbolised the prosperity of the middle class and the corruption of the regime, shouting slogans like, \"Ya baṭal el-'obūr, fēn el-fotūr?\" (\"Hero of the Crossing, where is our breakfast?\") and \"Thieves of the Infitah, the people are famished.\" There were also shouts of \"Nasser, Nasser,\" in reference to Sadat's predecessor, Gamal Abdel Nasser. The rioting ended when the state abruptly cancelled the new policies. 79 people died in the riots, 556 were injured, and over 1,000 people were arrested.\n\nThe riots had a strong impact upon the Egyptian government's subsequent willingness to enact unpopular economic policies. After the riots, according to David Seddon, the Egyptian government was \"extremely cautious of provoking popular protest and political unrest through the introduction of drastic austerity measures, and it approached the IMF proposals with care.\" Though Egypt signed an Extended Fund Facility in 1978, the government's failure to adhere to IMF-imposed policy conditions resulted in only a small amount of funds being released. Not until it had paid back most of its debt to the IMF in 1987 did Egypt return to the IMF for a one-year arrangement.\n\n"}
{"id": "31215841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31215841", "title": "Abnormal behaviour of birds in captivity", "text": "Abnormal behaviour of birds in captivity\n\nAbnormal behavior of birds in captivity can be defined in several ways. Statistically, 'abnormal' is when the occurrence, frequency or intensity of a behaviour varies statistically significantly, either more or less, from the normal value. This means that theoretically, almost any behaviour could become 'abnormal' in an individual. Less formally, 'abnormal' includes any activity judged to be outside the normal behaviour pattern for captive birds of that particular class or age. For example, running rather than flying may be a normal behaviour and regularly observed in one species, however, in another species it might be normal but becomes 'abnormal' if it reaches a high frequency, or in another species it is rarely observed and any incidence is considered 'abnormal'. This article does not include 'one-off' behaviours performed by individual birds that might be considered abnormal for that individual, unless these are performed repeatedly by other individuals in the species and are recognised as part of the ethogram of that species.\n\nMost abnormal behaviours can be categorised collectively (e.g., eliminative, ingestive, stereotypies), however, many abnormal behaviours fall debatebly into several of these categories and categorisation is therefore not attempted in this article. Abnormal behaviours here are considered to be related to captive housing but may also be due to medical conditions. The article does not include behaviours in birds that are genetically modified to express abnormal behaviour.\nWhen housed under captive or commercial conditions, birds often show a range of abnormal behaviours. These are often self-injurious or harmful to other individuals, and include:\n\nWhen analyzing the behaviour of birds in captivity, what is considered normal or abnormal behaviour is dependent on the form and frequency that the particular behaviour is expressed in the natural environment. Birds raised in pet stores tend to be raised with other birds, however, after being sold and taken to the owner's home, birds in captivity are often housed in isolation and in environments lacking abundant resources or complex stimuli. In the United States, it is estimated that forty million birds are kept caged and improperly cared for. Because of these inappropriate housing conditions, abnormal behaviour patterns may appear in caged birds kept as pets. Once established, these abnormal behaviours in birds are often not alterable.\n\nWhen social interactions amongst birds are absent or inadequate, abnormal social behaviour may develop. For example, a study regarding parrots that had been isolated in cages demonstrated that most birds showing this social deprivation had significant behavioural disturbances, such as aggressive behaviour, feather picking, self-mutilation, restlessness, screaming, apathetic behavior, and stereotypies. Cannibalism often occurs in large animal husbandry systems, which are usually impoverished environments with a lack of opportunities. In addition, studies of caged canaries have revealed two common stereotypies. These include spot picking, where birds repeatedly touch a particular spot in the environment with the tip of their beak, and route tracing, a pacing behaviour associated with physical restrictions in movement imposed by the cage. The absence of song learning in zebra finches has also been implicated as a behavioural abnormality. In these birds, the social interaction of a young male with his song tutor is important for normal song development. Without the stimulus, the song, which is necessary for mating behavior, will not be learned. \n\nResearchers have analyzed ways to alleviate some abnormal behaviours in caged birds. Presenting these birds with novel stimuli e.g. a mirror or plastic birds, and social stimuli, such as a brief view of a bird in another cage, significantly reduced stereotypies. In addition, it has been suggested that keeping caged birds in pairs or small groups may reduce the development of abnormal behaviours, however, little quantitative evidence has thus far been collected to support this claim.\n\n"}
{"id": "40948162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40948162", "title": "Ariel Beresniak", "text": "Ariel Beresniak\n\nAriel Beresniak (born 3 December 1961) is a Swiss specialist in Public Health and Health Economics, author of reference books and scientific articles in modeling and decision-making analyses.\n\nBeresniak is a physician specialized in Public Health from the Faculty of Medicine at University of Marseille, France . He also obtained a master's degree in Economics and a PhD in applied mathematics in Economics at the Claude-Bernard University (France), and an Accreditation to Supervise Research (Habilitation a Diriger des Recherches). Beresniak was Head of Health Economics for Glaxo-Wellcome (1993-1999) and Global Head of Pharmacoeconomics for Serono International (1999-2004). Since 2005, Beresniak is CEO of Data Mining International. He has been short-term consultant for the World Health Organization and the European commission in the fields of Public health and Health Economics.\n\nBeresniak is author of the reference book \"Health Economics\" published in French and Portuguese. He publishes two dictionaries: one dictionary of Health Economics published in French and Spanish, and one dictionary of terms used in health industries published in French. Beresniak is also coauthor of \"Understanding Pharmacoeconomics\" published in French and \"Pharmacoeconomics\" published in Japanese. Beresniak is known to have led the ECHOUTCOME project, a European Commission funded research, establishing that the QALY indicator (Quality Adjusted Life Years) is not scientifically validated to be used in Decision making and could lead to divergent results with the same dataset. These findings have generated an international controversy because the QALY indicator is still currently promoted as reference case by some national health technology assessment agencies such as the NICE (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) in the UK.\nBeresniak is also project leader of the FLURESP project, a European Commission funded research, with the objective to compare cost-effectiveness of various public health interventions against human pandemic influenza.\n"}
{"id": "10493046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10493046", "title": "Associazione Luca Coscioni", "text": "Associazione Luca Coscioni\n\nThe Luca Coscioni Association for the freedom of scientific research was founded on September 20, 2002 by Luca Coscioni, a victim of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and a member of the Italian Radical Party who promoted the campaign for the freedom of scientific research on embryonic stem cells.\n\nIn 2001 he was the head of the list of Radical candidates in the political elections and received the support of 51 Nobel Prize Laureates worldwide. In 2005, the Association launched the pro-referendum campaign aimed at abrogating Law 40 which imposed a ban on assisted fertilization and on research on embryonic stem cells, by collecting the signatures of over a million voters. Although the referendum query obtained a majority of votes, it was cancelled for not obtaining the required quorum pursuant to the pro-abstention campaign promoted by the Italian Catholic Church and by many political parties.\n\nThe Association is also promoter of the World Congress for Freedom of Scientific Research, an international platform of scientists, patients and citizens.\n\nIn 2006, it played a leading role in the legal and political battle in favour of euthanasia and of the principle of a “Biological Testament” (Living Will) promoted by Piergiorgio Welby, the President of the Association, who suffered from progressive muscular dystrophy. After having addressed an open letter to the Italian President of the Republic and having filed a petition with the competent Court to respect his will to die, Piergiorgio Welby died on December 20, 2006 after having received sedation and being disconnected from mechanical pulmonary ventilation thanks to an act of civil disobedience organized by the Luca Coscioni Association. \n\n"}
{"id": "49441551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49441551", "title": "Audiology and hearing health professionals in Brazil", "text": "Audiology and hearing health professionals in Brazil\n\nDespite having the largest economy in South America or Central America, Brazil is still considered a developing country due to its low gross domestic product, or GDP, per capita, low living standards, high infant mortality rate and other factors. \"With regard to hearing health, the Brazilian government established the national policy for giving attention to hearing health in 2004, in which the Ministry of Health, considering the social magnitude of hearing impairment in the Brazilian population and its consequences, presented the proposal to structure a network of services set up by regions and in hierarchy that aims to be implemented in all federative units of Brazil, with integrated actions to promote ear health, hearing impairment prevention, treatment and rehabilitation organized and managed by the National Health System, Sistema U´ nico de Saude (SUS), in Portuguese,\" writes Bevilacqua et al. (2010) \n\nIn Brazil, audiology grew out of the field of ear nose and throat (ENT) medical field. According to Bevilacqua et al. (2008), the majority of audiologists in Brazil work at private institutions, including private medical practices and dedicated speech and hearing clinics. They are also employed in public institutions, such as community clinics, elementary schools, colleges, and universities. Audiologists perform diagnostic evaluations of auditory and vestibular disorders, select and fit hearing aids, and provide aural rehabilitation. They may also assist with workers’ health programs, dispense hearing aids, and aural rehabilitation in the public sector.\n\nAccording to Bevilacqua et al. (2008), \"the entry level for the profession remains the baccalaureate degree. The undergraduate course in fonoaudiologia involves a double major with coursework in both speech-language pathology and audiology. Classes include the basic sciences, anatomy and physiology, human development, linguistics, phonetics, psychology, the nature and process of audition and balance, normal and abnormal communication development, and supervised clinical practicum. A double license is granted to graduates of this four-year course, and they are free to work in any area of the field. Graduates must also comply with federal regulatory (licensure) standards in order to practice.\" According to the Brazilian Federal Speech Language Pathology and Audiology Council (Conselho Federal de Fonoaudiologia, 1996 ), there are currently 117 undergraduate courses in speech-language pathology and audiology in Brazil, and an average of 2000 students graduate each year. It is at graduate level that different courses are offered in the four areas of specialization defined by the Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology Council (audiology, language, oral motor disorders, and voice). There are several options for degrees and coursework. Some courses offer a 500-hour course of study which provides advanced clinical training focused in one of the four areas of specialization, and graduates receive the title ‘Specialist’. In addition, a few universities offer masters and doctoral degree courses designed to provide the necessary training for those aiming at a career in research and education. Currently, there are 32 specialization courses and eight graduate courses in communication disorders throughout Brazil.\"\n\nBrazil is one of the few developing countries that provides universal newborn hearing screenings. Brazil has one of the largest and oldest newborn hearing screening programs (NHSP) in Latin America with over 246 screening sites across 24 of the 27 Brazilian states. According to Cavalcanti & Guerra (2012), the first NHSP dates back to 1988 in Sa˜o Paulo. Originally, only babies with risk factors were screened for hearing loss. Despite efforts being made to implement newborn hearing screening throughout Brazil, 77% of the UNHS programs are in the Southern, which is the more industrialized part of the country. In 2004, Brazil established a national policy for hearing health which included diagnostic procedures, hearing aids and cochlear implants being provided to the pediatric population free of charge and rehabilitation services available for infants identified with hearing loss at an early age. Newborn hearing screening is one of the leading contributors for engaging subsequent diagnostic, treatment and rehabilitation actions. One example of a universal newborn hearing screenings are at the Public Hospital of Bauru, Sa˜o Paulo state, Brazil. The screening method this location uses is a two-stage screening consisting of transient otoacoustic emissions (TOAE), performed by an audiologist. If the newborn does not pass the first part of the screening then they are referred to Audiology and Speech Pathology Clinic at the University of Sa˜o Paulo, campus of Bauru for diagnostic follow-up testing and intervention. Bevilacqua et al., (2010) reviewed the average cost of the newborn hearing screening in Brazil and found the cost of hearing screening was equivalent to US$7.00 and the annual cost of the universal newborn hearing screening program was equivalent to US$26,940.47.\n\nGNI $Int PPP: Per Capita Gross National Income in international dollars; Pop. (000s): Population (000s); Auds: Total Audiologists; Auds/Mil. Pop: Audiologists per million people; ENTs: Total ENT surgeons; ENTs/Mil. Pop: ENT surgeons per million people; Aud Phys: Audiological Physicians; Aud Techs: Audiological Technicians; SLT: Speech-Language Therapists; TOD: Teachers of the Deaf; * indicates combined Speech-Language-Hearing qualification \"\n"}
{"id": "4440672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4440672", "title": "Balloon effect", "text": "Balloon effect\n\nThe balloon effect is an often-cited criticism of United States drug policy. The name draws an analogy between efforts to eradicate the production of illegal drugs in South American countries and the phenomenon of the same name when a latex balloon is squeezed: The air is moved, but does not disappear, instead moving into another area of less resistance.\n\nExamples of this displacement in drug traffic include:\n\nAs described in \"The Economist\":\nBrazil and the Southern Cone (Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay, Argentina) neglected their respective drug trafficking issues and due to the concentration on the Andean region, these were neglected by the United States as well. These nations ignored the problem primarily due to its slow introduction and penetration into their society, the insistence from the U.S. that the sources of the drugs was the only problem and because the governments at the time were more concerned with foreign debt, inflation, economic growth, civil-military relations and political survival. The United States continued to increase their anti-drug operations in the Andean region resulting in displacement. This means that the U.S. tactics forced the drug traffickers to search for safer areas with less government pressure to eliminate the flow of narcotics. The drug traffickers took advantage of the neglected Southern Cone and began shifting their routes, locations for cocaine laboratories and money laundering centres. These shifts have also created growing drug consumption issues among the Southern Cone countries. While the role of the Southern Cone had been that of a transhipment point for cocaine produced in the Andean region, further evidence appeared to indicate that in fact since 1984 the region had been used extensively by Colombian and Bolivian drug traffickers. Cocaine labs were found in Northern and Western Brazil and in Argentina. It was also found that Uruguay and Chile had become major financial centres for money laundering after the invasion of Panama. Uruguay was particularly attractive as it has one of the most open banking systems in the Western hemisphere and the government has always put great emphasis on having tight bank secrecy laws.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28646010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28646010", "title": "COSMIC cancer database", "text": "COSMIC cancer database\n\nCOSMIC is an online database of somatically acquired mutations found in human cancer. Somatic mutations are those that occur in non-germline cells that are not inherited by children. COSMIC, an acronym of \"Catalogue Of Somatic Mutations In Cancer\", curates data from papers in the scientific literature and large scale experimental screens from the Cancer Genome Project at the Sanger Institute. The database is freely available to academic researchers and commercially licensed to others. \n\nThe COSMIC database was designed to collect and display information on somatic mutations in cancer. It was launched in 2004, with data from just four genes, HRAS, KRAS2, NRAS and BRAF. These four genes are known to be somatically mutated in cancer. Since its creation, the database has expanded rapidly. By 2005 COSMIC contained 529 genes screened from 115,327 tumours, describing 20,981 mutations. By August 2009 it contained information from 1.5 million experiments performed, encompassing 13,423 genes in almost 370,000 tumours and describing over 90,000 mutations. COSMIC version 48, released in July 2010, incorporates mutation data from p53 in collaboration with the International Agency for Research on Cancer. In addition, it provided updated gene co-ordinates for the most recent human reference genome builds. This release includes data from over 2.76 million experiments on over half a million tumours. The number of mutations documented in this release totals 141,212.\n\nThe website is focused on presenting complex phenotype-specific mutation data in a graphical manner. Data is taken from selected genes, initially in the Cancer Gene Census, as well as literature search from PubMed.\n\nData can be accessed via selection of a gene or cancer tissue type (phenotype), either using \"browse by\" features or the \"search\" box. Results show summary information with mutation counts and frequencies. The gene summary page provides a mutation spectrum map and external resources; the phenotype (tissue) summary page provides lists of mutated genes.\n\nThe figure shows the CDKN2A gene, which is a tumor suppressor that leads to cancer when it is inactivated.\n\nThe COSMIC database contains thousands of somatic mutations that are implicated in the development of cancer. The database collects information from two major sources. Firstly, mutations in known cancer genes are collected from the literature. The list of genes that undergo manual curation are identified by their presence in the Cancer Gene Census. Secondly, data for inclusion in the database is collected from whole genome resequencing studies of cancer samples undertaken by the Cancer Genome Project. For example, Campbell and colleagues used next generation sequencing to examine samples from two individuals with lung cancer which led to the identification of 103 somatic DNA rearrangements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45436780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45436780", "title": "Capital punishment in Guernsey", "text": "Capital punishment in Guernsey\n\nCapital punishment in Guernsey was abolished for murder in 1965 and abolished for all offences in 2003.\n\nPrior to abolition, the death penalty had not been used since 1854. The last person to be executed in Guernsey was the English murderer John Tapner, who was hanged on 10 February 1854.\n"}
{"id": "22116523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22116523", "title": "Charles Gilbert Chaddock", "text": "Charles Gilbert Chaddock\n\nCharles Gilbert Chaddock (1861–1936) was an American neurologist remembered for describing the Chaddock reflex.\n\nCharles Gilbert Chaddock was born in 1861 in Jonesville, Michigan. He qualified in medicine in 1885, and worked at the North Michigan Asylum in Traverse City. He spent a year studying in Europe in 1888. He became Professor of neurology and psychiatry at the Marion-Sims College of St. Louis University. He returned to Europe in 1897, spending most of the time as assistant to Joseph Babinski. On his return to the United States in 1899 he introduced American physicians to Babinski's sign, later publishing a translation of Babinski's work.\n\nChaddock introduced his eponymous reflex in 1911, calling it the \"External Malleolar sign\". He also described an analogous sign in the upper limb. He is also credited with the first use of the word homosexual in the English language, as well as the first use of the word bisexual in its current sense of being sexually attracted to both women and men, in his translation of Richard von Krafft-Ebing's \"Psychopathia Sexualis\" in 1892. Prior to this, \"bisexual\" was usually used to mean hermaphroditic.\n"}
{"id": "31561998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31561998", "title": "Childbirth in Japan", "text": "Childbirth in Japan\n\nThis article deals with childbirth in Japan, and the specific details of childbirth exclusive to Japan in relation to beliefs, attitudes and healthcare.\n\nLegend attributes the creation of Japan to a sun goddess from whom the original emperors are said to be descended beginning in 660 BC. Japan was, for the next one thousand years, a largely heterogeneous culture with diverse regional social patterns. Contact with Korea and China during this time brought aspects of both cultures to Japan, including rules of rank and etiquette, the Chinese calendar, astronomy, and a healing system based on traditional Chinese medicine. Military dictators, or \"shoguns,\" ruled for roughly the next seven hundred years, culminating in military reunification, and widespread implementation of civil order consistent with the ethos of the samurai class, e.g. rules of loyalty, social hierarchy, and filial piety.\n\nWestern attempts at trade with Japan were largely unsuccessful until 1853 when an American fleet led by Comadore Perry arrived in Japanese waters and forced Japan into unfavorable trading agreements. This event coincided with the fall of the \"shoguns\" and the subsequent Meiji restoration that ended a system of feudal landholders, and helped unify the nation. Japan quickly transitioned to a modern power with an imperial army. Japan then began to extend its empire and seize various Pacific islands and parts of Russia. This militarism carried over to the 1920s when Japan invaded China, to the 1930s when Japan joined the Axis powers, and finally into the 1940s when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor. In 1945, the historic drop of two atomic bombs by the US on Hiroshima and Nagasaki resulted in the disastrous outcomes that ultimately forced retreat.\n\nThe US then occupied Japan from 1945 to 1952 under General Douglas MacArthur. A new constitution took effect in 1947 according to which the emperor became largely a symbolic head of state. Japan regained its sovereignty in 1952, and in 1972 the US gave back some islands, the Ryukyu, that included Okinawa. Japan's economic growth was swift, relying on new technologies, manufacturing and a protectionist attitude. In 1998, Japan – like much of the region – suffered the worst recession since World War II, which led eventually to the resignation of the prime minister. Since then the economy has improved, but is still plagued by stagnation, a fact that the recent 23-foot tsunami and the largest earthquake in Japanese history that struck on March 11, 2011 did not help. A tsunami triggered by a huge earthquake in 2011 stuck the nuclear power plant (NPP) in Fukushima and lead to the leakage of harmful radioactive materials, such as 131I, 137Cs, and 134Cs, into the environment. As a result, more than 170,000 people in Japan evacuated from the area at the time. The radioactive materials from Fukushima incident were released into the air and water, possibly polluting agriculture and marine life in Japan and other nearby countries.\n\nThe population of Japan in 2009 was 127.51 million. It is the tenth largest population in the world with the fifth highest population density. The country is increasingly urban. About 45% of the population was, in 2005, centered within 50 kilometers of the three largest cities in Japan: Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya.\n\nIn 2005, 20.1% of the population was over 65 years old. This figure is projected to increase to 31.8% by 2030, higher than any other industrialized nation. The fertility rate, at 1.21, is below the replacement level. The percent of three-generational households has steadily declined since the 1970s while the proportion of one-person and nuclear households has increased steadily in the same time period.\n\nSocial interactions in Japan are traditionally guided by the opposing dynamics of intimacy and hierarchy. In social situations, a commitment to group harmony, solidarity and intimacy must be balanced by deep respect for hierarchy. Rules of hierarchy are guided by age, social status and type of employment. Appropriate behavior therefore depends on a person's ability to assess the relative hierarchical distinction between individuals. Distance naturally decreases intimacy, and appropriate language must be used to communicate deference and avoid offending the other party. Traditionally, any behavior that fosters conflict or suggests deviance is not acceptable in Japan.\n\nSince its constitution was adopted in 1947, Japan has been a parliamentary government with a constitutional monarchy. The monarchy is hereditary while the prime minister must be elected by the Diet, or a bicameral legislative branch consisting of the House of Councilors and House of Representatives. Japanese local administration is by prefecture. The country is divided into 47 prefectures, each of which is further subdivided into cities with respective wards and blocks. Suffrage is granted at age 20 \n\nJapan boasts the fourth largest GDP in the world after the European Union, the United States, and China. While Japan was for centuries a largely agricultural economy, the percentage of the total labor force shifted dramatically in the twentieth century from agriculture to industrial occupations. Consequently, Japan must import about 60% of its food. Japan is one of the world's largest, most technologically sophisticated producers of automobiles, electronic equipment (including digital cameras), machine tools, steel and nonferrous metals, ships, chemicals, textiles, and processed foods. The unemployment rate is stable at less than 5%. Nevertheless, the economy is challenged by Japan's huge government department, exceeding 200% of the GDP, unrelenting deflation, reliance on exports, and graying, diminishing population.\n\nA classic \"M-shaped curve\" notably marks female employment as many women drop out of the labor force to raise children. Three times as many women are employed part-time as men.\n\nThe Japan Council for Quality Health Care administers the Japan Obstetric Compensation System for Cerebral Palsy, a no-fault compensation system for the care of delivery-related cerebral palsy.\n\nReligion, as practiced in Japan today, includes Shintoism (83.9%), Buddhism (71.4%), Christianity (2%), and other (7.8%). Total adherence exceeds 100% because many identify with both Shintoism and Buddhism. Shinto shrines, honoring gods and goddesses of ancient Japanese mythology, decorate the landscape of Japan. Shintoism is based on earlier animistic and shamanistic traditions, and contains many concepts crucial to daily Japanese life today including cleanliness of the body and home. Shintoism was for a long time considered the \"people's religion\" while Buddhism was adopted originally by the elite. Fundamental to Zen Buddhism are values such as personal effort, personal sacrifice, dedication, exertion, attunement to the body as well as meditation centered upon daily activities such as tea drinking, flower arrangement, and gardening. Confucian philosophical traditions, while not specifically religious, are also embedded within Japanese culture. The five essential relationships according to this philosophy are father-son, ruler-son, husband-wife, older brother-younger brother, and between friends. Clearly this system leaves out woman-centered relationships (e.g. mother-daughter).\n\nJapan is a country of islands with Korea to the west, China to the southwest, and Russia to the north. Most of the population lives on the four main islands located between the Pacific Ocean and the Sea of Japan. These islands are called Hokkaido, Honshu, Shikoku, and Kyushu. The entire land mass of Japan is slightly smaller than California, but the climate varies dramatically from cool and temperate in the north to tropical in the south. This mostly mountainous country is, based on its location, vulnerable to a variety of natural hazards including volcanoes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and typhoons.\n\nJapan's primary medical system is biomedicine. In the late 1800s, the Japanese government formally adopted the German system of medical training and medical care delivery. This system of health care exists side by side with a uniquely Japanese system of healing called \"Kampo\" The government granted Kampo official status in the 1950s, a landmark event which came with both government regulation as well as national insurance coverage for certain types of treatment. Kampo is centered on establishing balance of physical, mental, social, and emotional states. An imbalance may be due to changes such as heat (e.g. overactivity), poor diet, dampness, or pathogens. Balance and imbalance are understood according to three main sets of contrasting states: hot/cold, excess/deficiency, and internal/external. A practitioner of \"Kampo\" gathers extensive personal information about physical and emotional experience and focuses on restoring balance. Treatments include moxibustion and acupuncture. Kampo treatment is generally considered appropriate for chronic conditions, when multiple organs are affected (e.g. immune disorders or age-related decline), or when biomedicine cannot diagnose or effectively treat a condition.\n\nWhile the social status of women is relatively low, the status of mother is very high in Japan. The concept of \"ryosai kenbo\" (good wife and wise mother), while contributing to the positive perception of and respect for the mothering role, has been the focus of some resistance by women in the past 25 years. The mean childbearing age is 29.7, an approximately four-year increase since 1979. Mean age of first marriage is 28.6 for women, representing an over five-year increase since 1950. Marriage rates have decreased since 1970; divorce rates, while remaining low, have slightly increased since 1970. Nevertheless, most women in Japan still have one or two children and devote enormous amounts of time and energy into raising them. Citizenship is notably guarded: a child born in Japan does not receive Japanese nationality if both parents are non-Japanese, or if a Japanese father denies paternity of a child born to a non-Japanese woman.\n\nThe availability of the birth control pill in Japan is a highly contentious issue due to the government's concern for its many potentially negative systemic side effects and worry that it may contribute, through lack of condom use, to a rise of HIV. While the pill is now available, usage continues to be lower than many other countries. A 2001 survey of 1500 women, for example, found that only 4% of Japanese women use this method compared to 87% in the US and 93% in Germany.\n\nAbortion has been legal in Japan since 1948. A 1982 survey by the Kyodo News Service reported than 75% of women in their fifties had undergone abortions at some point in their lives. Abortion became legal during the postwar period when the needs of survival limited the number of mouths a family could feed. Nevertheless, abortion is not taken lightly and is traditionally marked by various Buddhist rituals in which parents express regret and gratitude to their aborted children for their sacrifice for the family. A 2005 study by Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine reported that there were 341,588 induced abortions in 2001. In addition, the abortion rate has been gradually increased by 5.4% to 292 per 1,000 live births from 1998 to 2001.\n\nWomen's health related figures in Japan are inspiringly positive. Japan boasts one of the longest life expectancies for women in the world at 82.25 years. According to WHO statistics, life expectancy rate were 83 for both sexes and 86 for women in 2011. And the infant mortality rate is 2.78 deaths per 1,000 live births, one of the lowest in the world. Whether these two facts are related to a final figure, the 2011 estimate of fertility rate of just 1.21 children, is as yet undetermined. Infant mortality rate has decreased to 2.13 per 1,000 live births in 2014. Maternal mortality rate is 5 deaths per 100,000 live births, one of the lowest in the world \n\nThe vast majority (or, approximately 99%) of women who carry pregnancies to term in Japan are married. The majority of these women stop working once they become pregnant. Japanese women are required by the Maternal Child Health Act to register their pregnancies with the local government, and encouraged to be vigilant of their pregnancy by utilizing the Maternal and Child Health Handbook (\"boshi techo\") distributed upon registration. Over 90% of pregnancies are registered before the 20th week of gestation, suggesting that most women are visiting a doctor and receiving support from public health services.\n\nJapanese women are advised to have prenatal visits every 4 weeks through 23 weeks gestation, every 2 weeks from 24 to 35 weeks, and every week after 36 weeks, for a total of 14 prenatal visit for a low to medium risk pregnancy. Ultrasound is used routinely to monitor the development of the fetus; most women have at least five fetal ultrasound exams during their pregnancy, a heavy use of technology considered necessary to assure a healthy baby and safe birth. Pregnant women in Japan have a strong belief related to ultrasonography. As a result, most pregnant women in Japan often receive fetal sonogram in every prenatal visit. They believe that monitoring normal development of the fetus will facilitate safe delivery. Additionally, because Japanese women prioritize safe delivery, episiotomy is often performed in all birth cases. Screenings for domestic violence and maternal depression are not often conducted during prenatal visits in Japan, while in the US 35% of women are screened for domestic violence and 47% for maternal depression.\n\nGenetic screening tests, such as amniocentesis, are available in Japan but rarely used. Contrary to US culture, the idea of having a \"normal\" or \"abnormal\" fetus is not as much a part of the traditional Japanese conception of pregnancy. Rather, the Japanese paradigm sees a fetus as inherently a work in progress, or \"perfectible.\" Ob-gyns rarely initiate open discussion of the possibility of undergoing amniocentesis or triple marker tests with pregnant patients. In fact, the Health Ministry issued guidelines in 1999 according to which ob-gyns have no obligation to inform patients of these tests. Having an abortion due to fetal abnormalities is very rare. Some theorize that the reason for this is because the role of mother is so highly valued, while others suggest that women, freed from the pressure of holding down a job during motherhood, are less daunted by the time required to care for a child with additional needs.\n\nPregnancy is considered a period of mental and physical discipline for women, a process during which women literally make their babies. The outcome of a pregnancy is deeply tied to a woman's conduct; women are considered responsible for minimizing miscarriage and premature birth. There are many theories as to why this may be. Primary to understanding this idea is the Japanese principle of \"ganbaru,\" a fundamental notion that can be traced to many aspects of Japanese lifestyle. It means a general ability to \"try as hard as possible at whatever one does.\" For example, women are often reprimanded by their doctors to try harder if they are gaining what is considered too much weight (e.g. no more than 22 pounds is recommended, while some doctors advise less). If a pregnant Japanese woman is gaining too much weight, she may be instructed to weigh herself daily until she meets the goals set by her ob-gyn.\n\nMen are considered to be far removed from pregnancy because it isn't occurring in their bodies; they are therefore often exempt from maternity courses, medical visits, as well as sometimes the birth event itself.\n\nDuring the fifth month of pregnancy (which is the American fourth month because, in Japan, months are counted as having four weeks while in the West some months are 4 and some 5) women often go with a mother or grandmother to a shrine that is dedicated to safe childbirth. Here the women pray for a safe childbirth and purchase a special pregnancy sash, or \"obi\" to wrap around the abdomen of the pregnant woman. This sash is meant to protect the uterus from the cold, keep the fetus stable and prevent it from growing too large. The ritual also aids in creating maternal identity.\n\nEnvironment, or \"kankyo,\" is also a key concept in the Japanese theory of gestation. This idea surpasses the Western concept of what you feed yourself you feed your baby by encompassing ideas about certain foods being related to coldness or heat. Sweets, for example, are considered a cold food that should be avoided in pregnancy as the womb is meant to be warm. Also promoted is the idea that a pregnant woman should eat foods native to Japan. The concept \"moto ni modoru\" in this context suggests that in regard to food, one should go back to the origin when pregnant. In other words, Japanese babies are made of Japanese food which comes from Japanese soil. Traditional thoughts about proper food to eat in pregnancy relate to the idea that women are not just vessels, but active vehicles working toward creation.\n\nEmphasis is also made in prenatal care on keeping a tranquil heart, limiting stress, and trying to elevate your spirits, becoming spiritual (even if you're usually not), and stroking the baby from time to time. This concept of mental wellbeing is called \"shinkyo\" and many doctors will be more lax on nutrition if they feel the food pressure is stressing out a woman and putting her spirit in danger.\n\nTopics not typically covered with the physician during prenatal visits for which Japanese women may turn to popular magazines include: sex during pregnancy, information regarding the birth experiences other women, unusual methods for delivery, as well as explanations of many medical terms.\n\nStress and physical difficulty are considered harmful to the healthy development of pregnancy. Work is considered one of the many environmental factors women are supposed to control. The Maternal and Child Health handbook details for women acceptable \"postures for physical activity in daily life.\" They are also instructed in this book to keep their bodies warm at all times, stabilize their bellies, and protect themselves against bumps.\n\n\"Satogaeri shussan,\" or going back home, is a traditional custom in Japan according to which pregnant women return to their natal homes for labor and childbirth.This tradition, though waning in contemporary Japan, reinforces family ties and also reflects the practical needs of the mother to be. Often a woman will switch doctors at this time. It is more common today for a mother to stay at home and have her mothers, sister, or mother-in-law come to look after her, especially in the case of a second pregnancy, than to go to her parents' house. Additionally, the most recent change introduced new medical procedures, change in birth attendants, and change in birthplace. While 95% of deliveries occurred at homes in the 1950s, 95% of births occurred in medical institutions such as hospitals and clinics in the 1980s.\n\nEating and drinking during labor are usually encouraged by medical providers in Japan. Japanese women tend to eat voraciously in labor, which counters common practice in American hospitals. Eating is encouraged, especially by midwives, so that the laboring woman will have energy to push.\n\nWalking is encouraged during labor by most medical providers in Japan. But making loud sounds is not considered acceptable during labor.\n\nIn Japan, primary and secondary level maternity hospitals and clinics do not use epidurals. Most Japanese women alleviate pain in others ways such as breathing, movement, and massage/acupressure.\n\nMany Japanese women believe that the mother child bond is strengthened through labor. Others fear that pain medication will make the fetus weak and unhealthy. Some Japanese women who do not use pain medication for the first labor decide to use it in subsequent births.\n\nFemale relatives traditionally help Japanese woman through labor. While men traditionally do not help in labor, one recent 2011 cohort study revealed that about half of Japanese women now have their partner in the laboring room. Massage, stroking, and acupressure by female relatives are commonly utilized techniques to help a woman in Japan through labor.\n\nBirths in Japan are attended by either licensed doctors or experienced midwives. Childbirth in Japan underwent three significant changes. During the Edo era, from 17th to 19th centuries, birth attendant had been an officially recognized as a profession in Japan. In the beginning of the 19th century however, traditional birth attendants were replaced by modern birth attendants also known as “kindai-sanba”. While statistics suggest that only 2.8% of births in Japan are attended by midwives, it is estimated that closer to half of all births in Japan are midwife-attended. The discrepancy is likely because of a legal provision that doctors must sign his or her name when both a doctor and midwife are present at birth. In actuality, it is a frequent occurrence in hospitals that a midwife attends an entire labor and birth, and a doctor is only called in at the final pushing stage.\n\nProfessional midwives had a national midwifery association in Japan from 1927 until it was dissolved by U.S. occupying forces after WWII. Since 1948, the education system for midwives was combined with nursing education, both of which require three years of training. The word for midwife also changed after 1947. The original word \"sanba\" (\"san\" meaning birth and \"ba\" meaning old women) was changed to \"josan-pu\" (\"josan\" meaning help delivery, and \"pu\" meaning woman). And in 2002 it was changed again to \"josan-shi\" (\"josan\" meaning help and \"shi\" meaning teacher) to avoid gender connotations. Traditionally, midwives in Japan continuously share strong relationships with the families of the baby they delivered. Because Japanese people believe that babies are transferred to humans by god and that midwives are people who facilitate the process, midwives often stay as godmothers of babies that they help deliver. Moreover, midwives often continue to live in the community near their godchild babies for this religious reason.\n\nIn 2006 there were 25,775 midwives in Japan: 88% worked in hospitals and clinics, 6% were independent, and 6% were employed by universities, and government institutions. Independent midwives attend birth in one of the 388 practicing maternity homes nationwide. In 2012, the number of midwives in Japan were 35,185: 62% worked at hospitals, 25% at clinics, and 13% at health centers, maternity homes, universities and others.\n\nMedical education in Japan lasts six years, and begins directly after high school. The first four years of training are considered preclinical, and the final two years are clinical. In 2006, there were 79 medical schools in Japan, and the students were 32.8% female. A recent law now requires training for an additional two years after graduation. The field of obstetrics in Japan differs from the US in the high value placed on normal physiologic birth, and in the concept of obstetrics as a field largely distinct from surgery.\n\nDoctors are often addressed as \"sensei\" in Japanese, significant because people with the title of \"sensei\" are typically not questioned. Other positions that share this title, e.g. teacher, professor, and priest are – as keepers of knowledge – traditionally obeyed. (Engel 1989) Patients who ask too many questions risk seeming offensive or irritating, and a good patient is a passive one. Consequently, mode of delivery is thought to be best decided by obstetricians, not by laboring women (Matsuoka & Hinokuma 2009) For example, requesting a cesarean without medical reason is perceived as unacceptable.\n\nThe care provided by independent midwives at maternity homes or in home births is traditionally woman centered, the locus of decision-making power remains with the laboring woman.\n\nIn 2005, 51.5% of Japanese babies were born in hospitals, 47% in private physician-run clinics with fewer than nineteen beds, 1.0% in maternity homes, and 0.2% at home.\n\nJapanese women predominantly give birth in a semisitting position, though some literature suggest the lying down, lithotomy position, is still used.\n\nPainkillers are thought to complicate deliveries and women are discouraged by ob-gyns from taking them during childbirth. Therefore, Japanese births tend to be without pain medication. Furthermore, there is a more positive image of a women capable of natural birth.\nWithout pain medication, labor displays the woman's strength and responsibility. Some believe that not experiencing pain during birth hinders bonding between mother and baby.\n\nIf a Japanese woman would like an epidural during labor, she must give birth at one of the few private and expensive hospitals that provide them. Pursuing this option is still relatively rare in Japan today.\n\nMany midwives practice perineal massage to promote stretching, ease birth, and minimize maternal trauma.\n\nIn facing birth without pain medications, many supportive techniques are used such as breathing, position changes, movement, massage, stroking, and acupressure.\n\nJapanese women are expected to experience labor and birth quietly, with an emphasis on breathing techniques. Screaming or shouting by a laboring or birthing women may be met with a request such as, \"no voicing\" from an attendant, and a refocus on breathing and remaining calm.\n\nObstetricians, especially the older generation still practicing, advocate for physiological births and discourage unnecessary interventions.\n\nIf complications arise that demand cesareans, then cesareans are performed. However, cesarean birth has a negative image in Japan, and is often perceived as suggestive that a woman was incompetent or deficient. The rate of c-sections in Japan in 2005 was, according to one estimate, 17.4%. Other reports suggest the rate is as low as 10% in some locations; nevertheless, rates between 10% and 20% reported throughout Japan are significantly lower than North America. Of women attempting vaginal birth at a maternity home, about 10.2% are eventually transferred for complications to large hospitals with neonatal intensive care units.\n\nUse of a continuous fetal monitor is the norm in hospitals and physician-run clinics, but precisely when this is typically applied is hard to discern from existing literature. Episiotomies were in 1995 still common in Japan: in the hospital the rate for primiparas was 88% and 41% for multiparas. (Matsuoka & Hinokuma 2009) Maternity homes tend to use far less technology and interventions. For example, the rate of episiotomies in maternity homes for primiparas was 5% and for multiparas it was 1%.\n\nMost women stay in the hospital for 4 to 7 days after vaginal delivery, and about 10 days after cesarean. This period is a time for \"ansei,\" or peace and quiet with pampering. Rest is considered very important; it is thought that the long recuperation after childbirth helps explain why Japanese women have less uterine disease and need fewer hysterectomies in middle age than American women. Some Japanese hospitals do not provide rooming in as it interferes with rest, while others do. Traditionally, Japanese women were expected to stay inside with their babies for the first 100 days after birth, but this is not expected in contemporary Japan.\n\nWhile all Japanese women are encouraged to rest after birth, primiparous women need only focus on one child whereas multiparous women face additional childcare obligations. Therefore, while primiparous Japanese women traditionally return to their mother's home for about one month after leaving the hospital to be cared for and receive help with the care of the baby, it is more likely that female family members of a new mother will go to her house to help out if there are additionally children to watch.\n\nOne study of Japanese women done in 2005 found that the prevalence of maternity blues and postpartum depression was much less for women who gave birth in maternity homes than for those who delivered in hospitals. The authors attributed this difference to the idea that bodily damage and pain are experienced far less in Japanese maternity homes than hospitals.\nA study by Ikeda and Kamibeppu found that 20.4% of Japanese women have postpartum depression.\n\nLike most newborns in Western hospitals, infants are given a series of vaccines and screening procedures, and can be seen as rites of passage. In contemporary Japan, the baby is given a hepatitis B vaccine, and is screened for a variety of diseases, including phynylketonuria, and hypothyroid disease. This process is voluntary but there is about 99% compliance. Besides frequent health and developmental checks in clinics during the first year, special development checks are required by law for all children at 18 months of age, and again at age 3.\n\nThe mother is the primary caregiver in Japan. While fathers occasionally help with the baby, their main responsibility is to support their family. It is a traditional Japanese belief that contact and interaction between mother and newborn, or \"skinship\", during the first three years is one of the most important periods of the child's life. It builds the relationship between mother and child. Also, because childcare options are limited, working women often rely on their parents for assistance. In fact, 67.2% of working women with children under 1 turn to grandparents for childcare. While attitudes are changing, a survey in the early 1990s showed that 55.6% of women and 65.7% of men agreed that child care and other housework fall entirely in the woman's domain.\n\nJapanese hospitals typically place part of the umbilical cord that falls off in a traditional box specifically designed for this purpose. When the mother leaves the hospital, the umbilical cord is given to her. This Japanese custom is based upon the belief that the umbilical cord has a direct relationship to the health of the baby. Maltreating it, therefore, risks causing harm or disease in the child. In some Japanese households, a mother may show a child the umbilical cord on certain events like birthdays to recall the day the child was born. In other households, the umbilical cord is given to a child on the day he or she leaves home or gets married to symbolize separation. Also, a preserved umbilical cord is considered to be a cure for the child when he or she is sick. Parents would cut a small portion of the cord and feed it to the child. Additionally, the Japanese believe that the umbilical cord is a symbol of the child’s fate. So if one loses his or her umbilical cord, his/her spiritual fate is considered lost as well.\n\nBathing the baby is the traditional role of the father, providing a means of \"skinship\".\n\nJapanese women strongly believe in natural childbirth (Yeo et al. 2000). This includes eating natural and organic home-cooked meals. As a result, many pregnant women do not take prenatal vitamins or supplements.\n\nIn the hospital, Japanese midwives perform daily breast massage to encourage milk production and flow. Women are encouraged to breastfeed their child on a set schedule. According to a 2006 study, 90% of women in Japan were breastfeeding exclusively at one week after birth compared to 51% of U.S. women. Breastfeeding is officially promoted, but artificial milk is also heavily advertised. (Engel 1989) Many women in Japan breastfeed, but when the baby is in a grandmother's care, for example, formula may be given.\n\nWhen a baby is 100 days old, Japanese families celebrate a weaning ceremony called \"okuizome,\" or first food. This ceremony traditionally involves a large shared meal prepared by the mother-in-law. The menu varies by region. During the meal a symbolic stone is placed on plates. This ritual is meant to wish the baby a life of abundant food without hunger as well as good strong teeth. While a people may pretend to feed the baby solid food during these festivities, the baby is usually still drinking exclusive milk.\n\nIn Japan, co-sleeping with newborns is very normal. Japanese babies traditionally sleep in the same room or near parents.\n\nWhen a baby turns 7 days old, Japanese families celebrate Oshichiya (お七夜). In this ceremony, the baby is officially named. The mother, the father, and the grandparents are often involved in this process.\n\n"}
{"id": "7086856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7086856", "title": "Continuous passive motion", "text": "Continuous passive motion\n\nContinuous passive motion (CPM) devices are used during the first phase of rehabilitation following a soft tissue surgical procedure or trauma. The goals of phase 1 rehabilitation are: control post-operative pain, reduce inflammation, provide passive motion in a specific plane of movement, and protect the healing repair or tissue. CPM is carried out by a CPM device, which constantly moves the joint through a controlled range of motion; the exact range is dependent upon the joint, but in most cases the range of motion is increased over time.\n\nCPM is used following various types of reconstructive joint surgery such as knee replacement and ACL reconstruction. Its mechanisms of action for aiding joint recovery are dependent upon what surgery is performed. One mechanism is the movement of synovial fluid to allow for better diffusion of nutrients into damaged cartilage, and diffusion of other materials out; such as blood and metabolic waste products. Another mechanism is the prevention of fibrous scar tissue formation in the joint, which tends to decrease the range of motion for a joint. The concept was created by Robert B. Salter M.D in 1970 and, along with help from engineer John Saringer, a device was created in 1978.\n\nFor people who have had total knee replacement without complications, continuous passive motion has been shown to provide clinically relevant benefits. CPM does improve long-term function, long-term knee flexion, knee extension in the short or long term. In unusual cases where the person has problems which prevent standard mobilization treatment, then CPM may be useful. Patient compliance is key to rehabilitation. Furthermore, with patients attempting at-home therapies, must follow orders with proper form\n\nThere are limited occupational therapies that are fully supported across a spectrum of patients. The fundamental movements provided by the CPM units, potentially allows for a remedial and fast progressing therapy. This is according to the University of California. This is an untapped potential for stroke patients that needs to be further explored, according to the same source. CPM units are a rare form of therapy that directly correlates the amount of use to the amount of progress. It is easy to neglect at-home therapeutic exercises for various reasons, but CPMs can be used while watching television or doing anything stationary. This ability to multi-task therapy with recreational activities hold higher promise for patients completing the therapy at home. Completing the therapy at home is just as important as prescribing it. That is why some studies suggest physical and occupational therapy yield better results than CPM units. CPM units should be used supplementary; also, these studies have fully compliant PT and OT patients whereas most patients do not fulfill their at-home exercises as often or with proper form that is suggested in these studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "6639212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6639212", "title": "David E. Bloom", "text": "David E. Bloom\n\nDavid E. Bloom (born October 16, 1955) is an American author, professor, economist, and demographer. He is Professor of Economics and Demography at the Harvard School of Public Health, and director of the Program on the Global Demography of Aging.\n\nBloom has written and published over 250 articles and books focusing on health, demography, education, and labor. He has been a contributing editor of \"American Demographics\" and an associate editor of the \"Review of Economics and Statistics\". He has also served as a referee for over 50 academic journals, and has been a member of the Board of Reviewing Editors of \"Science Magazine\" since August 1991.\n\nHe has been honored with an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship and the Galbraith Award for teaching. He was also a Fulbright Scholar in India (1982–1983) and a Scholar-in-Residence at the Russell Sage Foundation (1989–1990).\n\nDavid E. Bloom was born on October 16, 1955 in New York City. He attended the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations, Cornell University, graduating in 1976 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Industrial and Labor Relations. In 1978, he earned his Masters degree in Economics from Princeton University and his Ph.D. in Economics and Demography from Princeton in 1981. Bloom is married to Lakshmi Reddy Bloom, with whom he has two children, Sonali, a Yale University graduate, and Sahil, a Stanford University graduate.\n\nThroughout his career, Bloom has taught university courses at both the graduate and undergraduate levels. Primary areas of focus have included labor and development economics, global health and demographics, and statistics and econometrics. Following his graduation from Princeton, Bloom joined the public policy faculty of Carnegie Mellon University, School of Urban and Public Affairs, where he served as an assistant professor of Economics for academic years ending in 1981 and 1982.\n\nIn July 1982, he joined the staff of Harvard University, Department of Economics, where he served as an Assistant Professor of Economics through June 1985. The following month, he served as the Paul Sack Associate Professor of Political Economy through June 1987.\n\nBloom began working as a Professor of Economics at Columbia University, Department of Economics in July 1987, where he remained through the end of the 1996 academic year. During this time, he remained as Visiting Professor of Economics at Harvard, until March 1988. During the 1989–1990 academic year, Bloom joined the Russell Sage Foundation, where he served as the Scholar-in-Residence. He then served as the chair of the Department of Economics at Columbia from July 1990 to December 1993.\n\nIn July 1995, Bloom began serving as the Acting Executive Director of the Harvard Institute for International Development. In July 1996, he served as the Deputy Director, while simultaneously serving as the Director of the Education and Social Development Group, remaining there through June 1999.\n\nFollowing the end of the 1996 academic year at Columbia, Bloom joined the staff of Harvard School of Public Health, where he served as the Professor of Population and Health Economics for three years, before being named the Clarence James Gamble Professor of Economics and Demography, where he has remained since June 1999. He is the Chair of Harvard's Department of Global Health and Population, and director of the Program on the Global Demography of Aging. He is also a Faculty Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, where he participates in the programs on labor studies, health economics, and aging.\n\nBloom's primary areas of research include labor economics, health, demography, and the environment. He has written numerous articles, reports, and books presenting comparative studies between health status and economic growth, along with the effects of population change on economic development. He has also researched and presented the factors that determine wages, fringe benefits, and total family income. Additional focus has included:\n\n\nThroughout his career, Bloom has provided consulting services to several national and international organizations, including the World Bank, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Development Programme, the International Labour Organization, the National Academy of Sciences, and the Asian Development Bank. He is also a member of the American Arbitration Association's Labor Arbitration Panel.\n\nBloom has written and published over 250 articles and books focusing on health, demography, education, and labor. He has been a contributing editor of \"American Demographics\" and an associate editor of the \"Review of Economics and Statistics\". He has also served as a referee for over 50 academic journals, and has been a member of the Board of Reviewing Editors of \"Science Magazine\" since August 1991.\n\nBloom is an Adjunct Trustee of amfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research and member of the Board of Directors of Population Services International, which addresses HIV/AIDS on a global scale. He additionally serves as a member of the World Economic Forum's Global Health Advisory Board and its Global Agenda Councils on Population Growth and on Ageing. In April 2005, he was elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Along with fellow member, Joel Cohen, he serves as a co-director of an American Academy of Arts and Sciences educational project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1964170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1964170", "title": "Dentinoenamel junction", "text": "Dentinoenamel junction\n\nThe dentinoenamel junction or dentin-enamel junction (DEJ) is the boundary between the enamel and the underlying dentin that form the solid architecture of a tooth.\n\nIt is also known as the amelo-dentinal junction, or ADJ.\n\nThe dentinoenamel junction is thought to be of a scalloped structure which has occurred as an exaptation of the epithelial folding that is undergone during ontogeny. This scalloped exaptation has then provided stress relief during mastication and a reduction in dentin-enamel sliding and has thus, not been selected against, making it an accidental adaptation.\n"}
{"id": "46816614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46816614", "title": "Doe ex. rel. Tarlow v. District of Columbia", "text": "Doe ex. rel. Tarlow v. District of Columbia\n\nDoe ex. rel. Tarlow v. District of Columbia, 489 F.3d 376 (D.C. Cir. 2007), is a unanimous decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, written by Circuit Judge Brett Kavanaugh, in which the Court upheld a 2003 District of Columbia statute that stated the conditions for authorizing a non-emergency surgical procedure on a mentally incompetent person. This case developed out of an appeal to a district court decision that was brought on behalf of a mentally incompetent patient who was subjected to an abortion without her consent and another patient who was subjected to an eye surgery without the patient's consent. Under the Appellate Court's interpretation of the statute, a court located in the District of Columbia, must apply the \"best interest of the patient\" standard to a person who was never competent, and the court must apply the \"known wishes of the patient\" standard to a person who was once competent. The appellate decision was remanded back to the District Court.\n\nThe following is the background of the case according to the Notes in the 2002 Memorandum Opinion and Order. The Notes were citing the Complaint. \"In 1978, defendants allegedly gave their consent for an abortion to be performed on plaintiff Jane Doe III, without consulting with Jane Doe III's legal representative and without obtaining substituted judgment from a court. Compl. ¶¶ 19-21. In 1984, defendants allegedly took the same action in regard to plaintiff Jane Doe I. Compl. ¶¶ 12-15. In 1994, defendants allegedly gave their consent for an elective surgical procedure to be performed on plaintiff Jane Doe II's eye, without consulting with Jane Doe II's mother who was also Jane Doe II's court-appointed advocate. Compl. ¶¶ 16-18.\"\n\nIn 2002, the case was brought before the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. District Judge Henry H. Kennedy, Jr. wrote that the plaintiffs may bring the lawsuit against the District of Columbia because there was not sufficient evidence that this case was precluded by earlier litigation in \"Evans & United States v. Williams\". In 2003, Kennedy denied the plaintiffs class action status because there was not evidence the District of Columbia would repeat the alleged harm. The plaintiffs amended their motion for class action status, and in 2005, the court granted class status for the purpose of declaratory and injunctive relief and \"enjoined the District of Columbia from authorizing elective surgeries for MRDDA [Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities Administration] patients under its present policy, ruling that MRDDA must follow the 'known wishes of the patient' standard in determining whether to authorize surgeries on MRDDA patients. However, the District Court denied class action status in regard to awarding monetary damages.\n\nThe decision of the District Court was appealed, and in 2007, the Court of Appeals overturned part of the District Court's decision. The Court of Appeals held that the District of Columbia's 2003 statute was constitutional and the law may distinguish two categories of persons who lack competency. \"For patients who once had mental capacity, the decision must be based on the 'known wishes of the patient' if those wishes can be 'ascertained' . . . For those who have never had the mental capacity, the decision must be based on 'a good faith belief as to the best interests of the patient.'\"\n\nIn 2009 the District Court ordered both parties to submit a joint case management report to propose how the court should resolve the remaining issues in the case, and in 2011 the court authorized the plaintiff to file a second amended complaint and ordered both parties to file another joint case management report. In 2013, the court denied the District of Columbia's motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. District Judge Rudolph Contreras wrote \"[t]his case involves weighty allegations that have long awaited resolution. For the reasons discussed above, the court concludes that they must remain unresolved somewhat longer, and will therefore deny the District’s motion to dismiss.\"\n\nIn 2016, the District Court, under Judge Rudolph Contreras, granted in part and denied in part the Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment and granted in part and denied in part, the Plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary Judgement.\n\nThe \"Journal of the American Academy of Psychiatry and the Law Online\" wrote a case brief on the appellate decision, and stated that the issue of substituted consent is complex and traces its history to England in Earl of Eldon's 1816 decision of \"Ex parte Whitbread, in the matter of Hinde\". The author wrote that the appellate decision in Doe would have been approved by Lord Eldon.\nIn the 2011 publication of \"Health Care Management and the Law: Principles and Applications\", Donna Hammaker wrote that the Appellate Court's decision in Doe is one of the most recent cases to tackle the issue of medical decision making for the mentally disabled and the court logically determined that an incompetent person may make decisions that have harmful or even deadly consequences because they may not know what is in their best interest. Christine Ryan cited the decision in Doe in the \"Fordham Law Review\", and wrote that courts properly apply substituted judgement analysis when the patient once had competency but became incompetent. Snopes.com fact checked whether the decision in Tarlow meant that people with disabilities could be forced to undergo elective surgeries, including aboritions, and Snopes determined that the claim was a mixture of truth and falsehood. The argument in Tarlow did \"authorize elective medical procedures without first making an attempt to ascertain the wishes of the patient;\" however, it did not specifically mention abortion.\n\n"}
{"id": "29318953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29318953", "title": "Elizabeth Allgeier", "text": "Elizabeth Allgeier\n\nElizabeth Rice Allgeier (March 4, 1941 – October 9, 2016) was an American psychologist and sexologist. She was the Editor of the \"Journal of Sex Research\" in the 1990s. She was Professor Emeritus of Psychology at Bowling Green State University. She joined BGSU in 1980 and retired in 2004. She received her PhD from Purdue University. She was a Fellow of the Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality, serving as its president between 1985-86. She was one of the experts to file an amicus brief in \"United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group\".\n"}
{"id": "42990834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42990834", "title": "Gioacchino Failla", "text": "Gioacchino Failla\n\nGioacchino Failla (19 July 1891 – 15 December 1961) was an Italian-born American physicist. A pioneer in both biophysics and radiobiology, he was particularly noted for his work on the role of radiation as a cause of cancer and genetic mutation. He was born in Castelbuono in the Province of Palermo and emigrated with his family to the United States in 1906. After his retirement from Columbia University's Center for Radiological Research in 1960, he was appointed Senior Scientist Emeritus in the Radiological Physics Division of the Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois. He was killed in a car accident near the laboratory at the age of 70.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21557307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21557307", "title": "Graciela Ocaña", "text": "Graciela Ocaña\n\nGraciela Ocaña (born September 16, 1960) is an Argentine politician.\n\nOcaña was born and raised in the western Buenos Aires suburb of San Justo in 1960. Raised without her father, she lost her mother to an accident at age five and was taken in by her maternal grandparents, both immigrants from Spain. Ocaña received her primary education at the Santa Rosa de Lima School, an institution maintained by Dominican nuns. She was transferred to the San Justo Secondary School system and enrolled at the University of Buenos Aires in 1978, where she graduated with a degree in Political Science in 1983.\n\nOcaña became affiliated with the Justicialist Party and found work in the private sector, managing a number of import-export businesses in the San Justo area.\n\nOcaña became disaffected from the Justicialist Party following President Carlos Menem's unexpected adoption of free market policies after taking office and, in 1993, she aligned herself with the eight congressmen who had left the party to form the center-left Frente Grande. An adviser to Buenos Aires Province Congressman \"Chacho\" Álvarez (the party's leader), she was elected to the Argentine Lower House of Congress as a member of the Frente Grande's successor, FrePaSo, on the Alliance ticket that brought Álvarez to the office of Vice President in 1999.\n\nOcaña earned renown for her work in the Money Laundering and Capital flight Subcommitee in Congress, where in 2001 she led investigations into businessman Emir Yoma and Córdoba Province Vice Governor Germán Kammerath, among others. President Fernando de la Rúa's resignation in December and the attendant crisis dissolved the Alliance, whereby Ocaña joined fellow Congresswoman Elisa Carrió's ARI, a new center-left christian democratic party.\n\nEnjoying Carrió's esteem, she was invited to run on the ARI ticket for Governor of Buenos Aires Province, but declined, opting to stand for reelection as Congresswoman. Prominent in the Small Business Committee, in January 2004 President Néstor Kirchner appointed her Director of the National Integrated Medical Attention Plan (PAMI), a national health insurance program hitherto struggling under chronic mismanagement. Known for her differences with her boss at the time, Health Minister Ginés González García, over abortion rights and birth control (which she opposed), she maintained a low profile while earning plaudits for her active intervention in a number of large public hospitals, notably the Hospital Francés. Increasingly distanced from ARI leader Elisa Carrió, Ocaña formally resigned her seat in Congress in 2006.\n\nHoping to win a fraction of ARI voters over following their defeat in the October 2007 elections, President-elect Cristina Kirchner offered Ocaña the post of Health and Environment Minister, which the popular PAMI director accepted, taking office on December 10. Ocaña's decision to demand reimbursement for around US$60 million in PAMI services rendered to health plans administered by the CGT and other labor unions intensified CGT Secretary General Hugo Moyano's opposition to her tenure, helping result in her June 23, 2009, decision to resign her post. Her departure from the Health Ministry was not announced until after the mid-term elections on June 28, and Tucumán Province surgeon and Vice Governor Juan Luis Manzur was tapped to succeed her on July 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "53700820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53700820", "title": "Gâteau nantais", "text": "Gâteau nantais\n\nGâteau nantais is a cake originating in the city of Nantes in France. \"Gâteau nantais\" is a soft, round pound cake, made of flour, sugar, salted butter, eggs, and almond meal, then dampened with a punch of rum and lemon, sometimes with an apricot gelée centre. The round shaped cake top is topped with a white glaze thinned with rum, although lemon or orange blossom water can be substituted if the cake is to be served to children. It is recommended to make the cake a day before it is intended to be served. It keeps very well. An earlier version of the recipe, without eggs, reportedly kept for three to four weeks. In the modern recipe, the icing is white, whereas earlier versions were an amber colour. \n\nA cookbook from the 1890s called for lemon peel to be grated into the cake's batter. The batter was firm enough to be stretched with a rolling pin and cut into rounds with a dough cutter. This version used a sprinkling of almond meal and sugar as a topping for the cake prior to cooking, and did not call for rum.\n\nIn the 18th century, the port of Nantes was enriched by the triangular trade and saw many goods from the Caribbean colonies such as cane sugar, dark rum, and vanilla; ingredients that were later used in the composition of the Nantes cake. Because of this, it is sometimes called the \"traveller's cake\". \n\nIt is considered a regional speciality of Nantes. Columnist says it was created in 1820 by a Roleau, master baker of Nantes. This \"high-end\" dessert was once served by housewives to their guests. It fell somewhat into oblivion until its revival by the biscuit factory LU, from 1910 to 1972. In the late 1990s, LU gave their recipe to Gilbert Debotté, who managed the Debotté patisserie.\n\nSince it became popular again in the 20th century, pastry chefs and cooks in Nantes have served it in its most classic version, or have been inspired to create variants including additional ingredients.\n\n"}
{"id": "19227215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19227215", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Cambodia", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Cambodia\n\nThe prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Cambodia is among the highest in Asia. Although Cambodia is one of the poorest countries in the world, extraordinary HIV prevention and control efforts exerted by the Royal Government of Cambodia and its partners have helped to reduce the spread of HIV. Between 2003 and 2005, the estimated HIV prevalence among Cambodian adults aged 15 to 49 declined from 2.0 percent to 1.6 percent.\n\nCambodia’s HIV/AIDS epidemic is spread primarily through heterosexual transmission and revolves largely around the sex trade. HIV transmission occurs mainly in sexual partnerships where one partner has engaged in high-risk behaviors. Women constitute a growing share of people living with HIV/AIDS, comprising an estimated 47 percent of people living with HIV/AIDS in 2003, compared with 37 percent in 1998.\n\nThis increased proportion of infections among women may reflect declining prevalence rates among males, as well as deaths among males infected in the early years of Cambodia’s epidemic. Significantly, a low prevalence rate in the general population masks far higher prevalence rates in certain sub-populations, such as injecting drug users, people in prostitution, men who have sex with men, karaoke hostesses and beer girls, and mobile and migrant populations.\n\nBy 2014, HIV prevalence was reduced to 0.4 percent through a successful prevention program. However, in 2015 a massive outbreak of HIV stemming mostly from Roka occurred. The cause is thought to be the reuse of syringes by an unlicensed doctor operating in the region who has since been jailed.\n\nAfter the first case of HIV was detected in Cambodia in 1991, the prevalence of infection increased steadily to a high of 2 percent in 1998. In the general population, the prevalence declined \nto 0.5 percent in 2009, down from 1.2 percent in 2001. The prevalence of HIV infection among women visiting antenatal care (ANC) clinics also declined, from a high of 2.1 percent in 1999 to 1.1 percent in 2006.\n\nAmong HIV-infected pregnant women, there was also a gradual increase in the percentage who received antiretroviral therapy (ART) to reduce the risk of mother-to-child transmission, from 1.2 percent in 2003 to 11.2 percent in 2007 to 32.3 percent in 2009.\n\n\nHIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: \n2.6% (2003 est.) \nHIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: \n170,000 (2003 est.) \nHIV/AIDS - deaths: \n15,000 (2003 est.) \nMajor infectious diseases: \ndegree of risk: very high \nfood or waterborne diseases: bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever \nvectorborne diseases: dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, and malaria \nnote: highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2008)\n"}
{"id": "19227246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19227246", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Vietnam", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Vietnam\n\nVietnam faces a concentrated HIV epidemic.\n\nHIV prevalence data in Vietnam is based primarily on HIV/AIDS case reporting and on the HIV Sentinel Surveillance conducted annually in 40 of Vietnam’s 64 provinces. The government now reports HIV cases in all provinces, 93 percent of all districts, and 49 percent of all communes, although many high prevalence provinces report cases in 100 percent of communes. Even though Vietnam has implemented HIV/AIDS case reporting, the general lack of HIV testing thus far suggests that the actual number of people living with HIV/AIDS is much higher.\n\nThe first HIV case was detected in 1990. The estimated number of people living with HIV then rose drastically from 3,000 in 1992 to 220,000 in 2007, and is projected to be 280,000 in 2012. Among these, 5,670 are children. According to the IMF, this trend is placing Vietnam at the threshold of moving the disease from the high-risk groups of drug users and sex workers to the general population. Among those who inject drugs, 19% are infected by HIV (up to 30% in some provinces.) \n\nInjecting drug users (IDU) account for up to 65% of people living with HIV. The HIV prevalence among male IDU is estimated to be 23.1%. Drug injection is reported as the major cause for doubling the number of HIV/AIDS patients from 2000 to 2005.\n\nAlthough there appears widespread awareness of using sterile needles among IDU (88% reported doing so in the last injection) sharing needles is common among those who have already contracted HIV/AIDS. In a survey of 20 provinces in Vietnam, 35% of IDU living with HIV shared needles and syringes. \n\nAnother main cause of HIV/AIDS spread is sexual transmission through the sex workers. While 97.1% of female sex workers (FSW) reported using condoms with their most recent clients, the rate is much lower at 41.1% among those who are living with HIV.\n\nWhile HIV/AIDS remain an epidemic only within the high-risk groups, women in the general population may be more exposed to the risk of contracting HIV than reported. One study estimates that reported HIV transmission among women may reflect as low as 16% of the real number due to the lack of HIV screening. The number of women with HIV infection is estimated to increase from less than 30,000 in 2000 to 90,000 in 2007.\n\nWomen may contract HIV/AIDS through partners who are undisclosed IDU. Men having pre-marital or extra-marital sexual relationships with FSW inevitably expose their wives to HIV/AIDS risk. Particularly in provinces with mobile populations, migrant husbands who, being away from home, are likely buy sex and use drugs may contract HIV and transmit to their wives.\n\nWith potentially high HIV prevalence among women, perinatal transmission presents another channel of HIV transmission. It is reported that more than 1% of pregnant women in some provinces are found HIV positive.\n\nSocial stigma against HIV/AIDS patients presents a major obstacle to contain HIV/AIDS. HIV/AIDS patients are treated unequally in the hospitals and denied employment. Children with HIV are not welcomed in school. In 2009, parents in Ho Chi Minh City forced officials to expel children with HIV. Discrimination thus discourages people to go for screening or to take medication in fear of revealing their HIV status.\n\nFunding for HIV/AIDS programmes in Vietnam is another pressing issue limiting the success of the effort to control the disease. Over the past 5 years, the available resource covered merely 50% of the demand. Moreover, since 70% of this amount was received from international institutions while state funding accounted for only 13%, there is no guarantee of future availability.\n\nThe final challenge lies in the limited human resources. There is a shortage of helpers in provincial and district areas. Currently, there are approximately 1,300 health workers in preventive medicines nationwide, including anti-HIV work, or 21 on average for each city or district. Dr. Nguyen Thanh Long, Chief of the Health Ministry’s HIV/AIDS Control Department, estimated that Vietnam has to increase the number of health workers to 20,000 by 2020 in order to be able to contain and reduce the increasing number of infected cases.\n"}
{"id": "18546004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18546004", "title": "Harbour Solutions", "text": "Harbour Solutions\n\nHarbour Solutions is a Canadian public infrastructure project in Halifax, Nova Scotia.\n\nThe CAD $333 million project comprised the construction of three sewage treatment plants and connected various sewage pipe networks with lift stations to treat all sanitary sewage in Halifax and Dartmouth. It was completed in 2010.\n\nFor two and a half centuries prior to this project, raw sewage was discharged untreated directly into Halifax Harbour. The harbour waters have been the recipient of approximately 200 million litres of untreated raw sewage every day, enough to fill 25 Olympic-size swimming pools. Shellfish harvesting from the harbour and swimming within the harbour have been prohibited for health reasons.\n\nThe historic settlements of Halifax and Dartmouth were built with no thought to sewage treatment as a means of waste disposal. Throughout the 19th century, sewers were designed as a single system, with no separation between sanitary sewers, which carried domestic human waste, and stormwater drainage systems. The combined sewers simply emptied into the harbour from dozens of outfalls at the bottom of each street that met the waterfront.\n\nBy the mid-20th century, it was clear that the system was not environmentally sustainable. Millions of litres of sewage were dumped into the harbour daily, consisting not only of simple human waste, but of pharmaceuticals, industrial chemicals, fertilizers, and a host of other harmful material.\n\nSewage treatment plants were proposed for both Halifax and Dartmouth beginning in the 1970s, however, the separate municipalities were never able to reach a consensus for system design and construction. That decade saw the Halifax Regional Water Commission begin to charge its customers a pollution surcharge which was intended to fund such a system. Meanwhile, a host of different provincial and federal governments came and went and overall funding was never finalized. It was only following municipal amalgamation which saw the cities of Halifax and Dartmouth dissolved and merged with all municipalities in Halifax County to form the Halifax Regional Municipality in 1996 that the sewage treatment issue gained necessary traction and moved beyond the planning stage.\n\nUnder the Harbour Solutions Project, a treatment system has been under construction since the early 2000s with three plants being built (one in downtown Halifax, one in downtown Dartmouth, and one in Herring Cove on the southwest side of the harbour) as well as extensive collector piping to close all sewage outfalls into the harbour and redirect sewage into the treatment plants. Total cost of the project is estimated to be approximately CA$333 million. \nOn February 11, 2008, the treatment facility in downtown Halifax officially commenced operation. The Dartmouth plant came online on July 10, 2008 and the Herring Cove plant was expected to open in late fall 2008.\n\nHarbour sewage is also mitigated to a lesser extent by the aforementioned existing plants at Mill Cove, in Bedford and another at Eastern Passage.\n\nThe Halifax Regional Municipality announced on July 9, 2008 that the harbour beaches, Black Rock Beach at Point Pleasant Park and the beach at Dingle Park will re-open to swimming on August 2, 2008. Fecal coliform bacteria levels at these locations are either undetectable or at safe levels for swimming. Eleven lifeguards will patrol the beaches.\nThe improved water quality in Halifax Harbour during the summer of 2008 is a direct result of the newly operating Halifax and Dartmouth sewage plants. The clarity of the water improved to the point where the municipal government hired commercial divers to remove debris from the floor of the harbour along the popular boardwalk in the Historic Properties; prior to this summer, the debris was seldom visible due to the opaque water as a result of the untreated sewage.\n\nHowever repeated breakdowns of the system in 2008 resulted in regular beach closures again and complaints about foul odours and sewage filled basements. A massive failure of the central plant in January 2009 caused raw sewage to again be poured into the Harbour.\n\nThe 2009 breakdown was caused by what Tim Bousquet of \"The Coast\" called \"a perfect storm\" of technical errors. A Nova Scotia Power electrical outage spurred a technician to activate two backup generators to maintain operation of the plant. But the electrical load was unevenly distributed between the two generators and one became overloaded and failed. A floodgate, designed to close in emergencies to isolate the plant's \"wet well\" from the deep pipe feeding sewage to the plant, was powered by the overloaded generator. A switch designed to allow the second generator to power the floodgate happened to fail. Owing to the failed generator, only one of the four sewage pumps could convey sewage out of the wet well, and the volume of sewage began to rise, shorting out the electrical junction boxes placed above the pumps. With the floodgate jammed partially open and all four pumps inoperable, the 85-foot-deep wet well filled with sewage. The electrical control room above the wet well then also filled with sewage, destroying all the equipment there.\n\nThe incident brought criticism from the federal government and the public, and city officials promised to get the plant back online by Spring 2010. On June 25, 2010, the Halifax Wastewater Treatment Plant was returned to full operation, and has been announced that Black Rock Beach and Dingle Park Beach will be safe for swimming again.\n\nUntreated sewage continues to be discharged into Halifax harbour due to severed sewer lines during construction of the new treatment plant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52285615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52285615", "title": "Helios Foundation", "text": "Helios Foundation\n\nThe Helios Foundation, is a registered charity based in Kings Cross, London. Their mission is to advance the study and practice of the arts and sciences pertaining to holistic health.\n\nEstablished in 1982 to provide counselling, psychotherapy and healing to people with long term illness and those suffering discrimination, particularly those with LGBT issues resulting in psychological stress and trauma.\n\nHelios was quick to respond to the AIDS crisis and, in 1987, started to run support groups for those affected. In 1992, they moved into their Kings Cross premises and began to provide a wide range of complementary therapy options alongside the psychotherapy needed to deal with the trauma of having this condition when there was no effective drug therapy available.\n\nTherapies included: psychodynamic & person centred counselling, psychotherapy, life coaching, couple counselling and hypnotherapy alongside 28 different complementary therapies including acupuncture, osteopathy, ayurveda, reflexology, and nutrition.\n\nIn 1998, the Helios all-embracing approach to health was studied by Professor Colin Francome of the Middlesex University and he concluded that: “the results of this survey show very clearly that the HIV programmes provided by the Helios Foundation do bring considerable benefit to the participants. The medical results were impressive and markedly superior to outcomes and trends reported elsewhere, particularly with regard to mortality.” Only 5 Helios clients died over this period, an exceptional result. A further study, in 2007, confirmed and updated these results.\n\nIn 2008, the charity’s founder and director, Greg Branson, received the Exceptional Carer award from the London Borough of Camden.\n\nIn 2010, the charity received a 5-year Big Lottery ‘Reaching Communities’ grant for counselling and support services to BME HIV+ women, LGBT seniors and HIV+ people returning to work.\n\nIt is widely believed that HIV is no longer a serious problem but there are currently 103,700 people in the UK living with HIV with a high percentage of those having had the condition for many years. In 2014, 613 people died here, with over 50% of these from the BME community. 6,151 were newly diagnosed and late diagnosis remains a key challenge.\n\nHelios mostly sees people at this worst end of the HIV spectrum and continues to provide integrated holistic services to address the continuing problems of long-term HIV+ people facing organ deterioration and incapacity and late diagnosed BME women who are not responding well to medication.\n\nThe issue of migrants’ health is often unrecognised. Many have significantly less access to the healthcare and support services they need. Refugees are often doubly discriminated against: firstly for simply being refugees and secondly for being accused of spreading HIV/AIDS into their communities where they are marginalised and have to deal with stigma and rejection.\n\nHelios does a great deal of outreach providing services for clients of the Mildmay Hospice, Food Chain, Positive UK and many others.\n\nIn recent years, the charity’s remit has been extended to serve people with a wide range of psychological issues alongside physical conditions such as cancer, hepatitis and lupus. The individual programmes of treatment are drawn from: \n\nFor 25 years, the Helios dual approach has comprehensively addressed both the physical and psychological needs of clients. The Kings Fund report: (Bringing together physical and mental health: A new frontier for integrated care. March 2016)confirmed that people with long term physical conditions show a high level of mental health difficulties.\n\n"}
{"id": "10923799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10923799", "title": "History and culture of breastfeeding", "text": "History and culture of breastfeeding\n\nThe history and culture of breastfeeding traces changing social, medical and legal attitudes to breastfeeding, the act of feeding a child breast milk directly from breast to mouth. Breastfeeding may be performed by the infant's mother or by a surrogate, typically called a wet nurse.\nBreastfeeding is the natural means by which a baby receives nourishment. In most societies women usually feed their own babies, being the most natural, convenient and cost effective method of feeding a baby. However there are situations when a mother could not suckle her own baby, for example she may have died, become unwell or otherwise could not provide breast milk for her baby. Before the availability of infant formula, in those situations, unless a wet nurse was found promptly, the baby may die, and infant mortality rates were very high. Wet nurses were a normal part of the social order, though social attitudes to wet nursing varied, as well as to the social status of the wet nurse. Breastfeeding itself began to be seen as common; too common to be done by royalty, even in ancient societies, and wet nurses were employed to breastfeed the children of royal families. This attitude extended over time, particularly in western Europe, where babies of noble women were often nursed by wet nurses. Lower-class women breastfed their infants and used a wet nurse only if they were unable to feed their own infant.\n\nAttempts were made in 15th-century Europe to use cow or goat milk, but these attempts were not successful. In the 18th century, flour or cereal mixed with broth were introduced as substitutes for breastfeeding, but this was also unsuccessful. Improved infant formulas appeared in the mid-19th century, providing an alternative to wet nursing, and even breastfeeding itself.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, breastfeeding started to be viewed negatively, especially in Canada and the United States, where it was regarded as a low class and uncultured practice. The use of infant formulas increased, which accelerated after World War II. From the 1960s onwards, breastfeeding experienced a revival which continued into the 2000s, though negative attitudes towards breastfeeding were still entrenched up to 1990s.\n\nIn the Egyptian, Greek and Roman empires, women usually fed only their own children. However, breastfeeding began to be seen as something too common to be done by royalty, and wet nurses were employed to breastfeed the children of the royal families. This was extended over the ages, particularly in western Europe, where noble women often made use of wet nurses. The Moche artisans of Peru (1–800 A.D.) represented women breastfeeding their children in ceramic vessels.\n\nShared breastfeeding is still practised in many developing countries when mothers need help to feed their children.\n\nTraditionally, Japanese women gave birth at home and breastfed with the help of breast massage. Weaning was often late, with breastfeeding in rare cases continuing until early adolescence. After World War II Western medicine was taken to Japan and the women began giving birth in hospitals, where the baby was usually taken to the nursery and given formula milk. In 1974 a new breastfeeding promotional campaign by the government helped to boost the awareness of its benefits and its prevalence has sharply increased. Japan became the first developed country to have a baby-friendly hospital, and as of 2006 has another 24 such facilities.\n\nIn the Qur'an it is stated that a child should be breastfed if both parents agree:\n\n\"Mothers may breastfeed their children two complete years for whoever wishes to complete the nursing ... And if you wish to have your children nursed by a substitute, there is no blame upon you as long as you give payment according to what is acceptable. \" (parts of Surat al-Baqarah 2:233)\n\n\"...and his gestation and weaning [period] is thirty months...\" (part of Surat al-Ahqaf 46:15)\n\nIslam has recommended breastfeeding for two years till 30 months, either by the mother or a wet nurse. Even in pre-Islamic Arabia children were breastfed, commonly by wet nurses.\n\nIn the 18th century male medical practitioners started to work on the areas of pregnancy, birth and babies, areas traditionally dominated by women. Also in the 18th century the emerging natural sciences argued that women should stay at home to nurse and raise their children, like animals also do. Governments in Europe started to worry about the decline of the workforce because of the high mortality rates among newborns. Wet nursing was considered one of the main problems. Campaigns were launched against the custom among the higher class to use a wet nurse. Women were advised or even forced by law to nurse their own children. The biologist and physician Linnaeus, the English doctor Cadogan, Rousseau, and the midwife Anel le Rebours described in their writings the advantages and necessity of women breastfeeding their own children and discouraged the practice of wet nursing. Sir Hans Sloane noted the value of breast-feeding in reducing infant mortality in 1748. His Chelsea manor which was later converted to a botanic garden was visited by Carl Linnaeus in 1736. In 1752 Linnaeus wrote a pamphlet against the use of wet nurses. Linnaeus considered this against the law of nature. A baby not nursed by the mother was deprived of the laxative colostrum. Linnaeus thought that the lower class wet nurse ate too much fat, drank alcohol and had contagious (venereal) diseases, therefore producing lethal milk.\n\nMother's milk was considered a miracle fluid which could cure people and give wisdom. The mythical figure Philosophia-Sapientia, the personification of wisdom, suckled philosophers at her breast and by this way they absorbed wisdom and moral virtue. On the other hand, lactation was what connected humans with animals. Linnaeus – who classified the realm of animals – did not by accident rename the category 'quadrupedia' (four footed) in 'mammalia' (mammals). With this act he made the lactating female breast the icon of this class of animals in which humans were classified.\n\nHistorian Rima D. Apple writes in her book \"Mothers and Medicine. A Social History of Infant Feeding, 1890–1950\" that in the United States of America most babies got breastmilk. Dutch historian Van Eekelen researched the small amount of available evidence of breastfeeding practices in The Netherlands. Around 1860 in the Dutch province of Zeeland about 67% of babies were nursed, but there were big differences within the region. Women were obliged to nurse their babies: “Every mother ought to nurse her own child, if she is fit to do it (...) no woman is fit to have a child who is not fit to nurse it.”\n\nMother's milk was considered best for babies, but the quality of the breastmilk was found to be varied. The quality of breastmilk was considered good only if the mother had a good diet, had physical exercise and was mentally in balance. In Europe (especially in France) and less in the USA it was a practice among the higher and middle class to hire a wet nurse. If it was too difficult to find a wet nurse, people used formula to feed their babies, but this was considered very dangerous for the health and life of the baby.\n\nBreastfeeding in the Western world declined significantily from the late 1800s to the 1960s. By the 1950s, the predominant attitude to breastfeeding was that it was something practiced by the uneducated and those of lower classes. The practice was considered old-fashioned and \"a little disgusting\" for those who could not afford infant formula and discouraged by medical practitioners and media of the time. Letters and editorials to Chatelaine from 1945 to as late as 1995 regarding breastfeeding were predominantly negative. However, since the middle 1960s there has been a steady resurgence in the practice of breastfeeding in Canada and the US, especially among more educated, affluent women.\n\nIn 2018, \"Transgender Health\" reported that a transgender woman in the United States breastfed her adopted baby; this was the first known case of a transgender woman breastfeeding.\n\nA 1994 Canadian government health survey found that 73% of Canadian mothers initiated breastfeeding, up from 38% in 1963. It has been speculated that the gap between breastfeeding generations in Canada contributes to the lack of success of those who do attempt it: new parents cannot look to older family members for help with breastfeeding since they are also ignorant on the topic. Western Canadians are more likely to breastfeed; just 53% of Atlantic province mothers breastfeed, compared to 87% in British Columbia. More than 90% of women surveyed said they breastfeed because it provides more benefits for the baby than does formula. Of women who did not breastfeed, 40% said formula feeding was easier (the most prevalent answer). Women who were older, more educated, had higher income, and were married were the most likely to breastfeed. Immigrant women were also more likely to breastfeed. About 40% of mothers who breastfeed do so for less than three months. Women were most likely to discontinue breastfeeding if they perceived themselves to have insufficient milk. However, among women who breastfed for more than three months, returning to work or a previous decision to stop at that time were the top reasons.\n\nA 2003 La Leche League International study found that 72% of Canadian mothers initiate breastfeeding and that 31% continue to do so past four to five months.\n\nA 1996 article in the Canadian Journal of Public Health found that, in Vancouver, 82.9% of mothers initiated breastfeeding, but that this differed by Caucasian (91.6%) and non-Caucasian (56.8%) women. Just 18.2% of mothers breastfeed at nine months; breastfeeding practices were significantly associated with the mothers' marital status, education and family income.\n\nSince 1940, Cuba's constitution has contained a provision officially recognising and supporting breastfeeding. Article 68 of the 1975 constitution reads, in part:\n\"During the six weeks immediately preceding childbirth and the six weeks following, a woman shall enjoy obligatory vacation from work on pay at the same rate, retaining her employment and all the rights pertaining to such employment and to her labour contract. During the nursing period, two extraordinary daily rest periods of a half hour each shall be allowed her to feed her child\".\n\nIn many countries, particularly those with a generally poor level of health, malnutrition is the major cause of death in children under 5, with 50% of all those cases being within the first year of life. International organisations such as Plan International and La Leche League have helped to promote breastfeeding around the world, educating new mothers and helping the governments to develop strategies to increase the number of women exclusively breastfeeding.\n\nTraditional beliefs in many developing countries give different advice to women raising their newborn child. In Ghana babies are still frequently fed with tea alongside breastfeeding, reducing the benefits of breastfeeding and inhibiting the absorption of iron, important in the prevention of anaemia.\n\nIn response to public pressure, the health departments of various governments have recognised the importance of encouraging mothers to breastfeed. The required provision of baby changing facilities was a large step towards making public places more accessible for parents and in many countries there are now laws in place to protect the rights of a breastfeeding mother when feeding her child in public.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO), along with grassroots non-governmental organisations like the International Baby Food Action Network (IBFAN) have played a large role in encouraging these governmental departments to promote breastfeeding. Under this advice they have developed national breastfeeding strategies, including the promotion of its benefits and attempts to encourage mothers, particularly those under the age of 25, to choose to feed their child with breast milk.\n\nGovernment campaigns and strategies around the world include:\n\nHowever, there has been a long, ongoing struggle between corporations promoting artificial substitutes and grassroots organisations and WHO promoting breastfeeding. The International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes was developed in 1981 by WHO, but violations have been reported by organisations, including those networked in IBFAN. In particular, Nestlé took three years before it initially implemented the code, and in the late 1990s and early 2000s was again found in violation. Nestlé had previously faced a boycott, beginning in the U.S. but soon spreading through the rest of the world, for marketing practices in the third world (see Nestlé boycott).\n\nA breastfeeding mother in public with her baby will often need to breastfeed her child. A baby's need to feed cannot be determined by a set schedule, so legal and social rules about indecent exposure and dress code are often adapted to meet this need. Many laws around the world make public breastfeeding legal and disallow companies from prohibiting it in the workplace, but the reaction of some people to the sight of breastfeeding can make things uncomfortable for those involved. Some breastfeeding mothers feel reluctant to breastfeed in public.\n\nA United States House of Representatives appropriations bill (HR 2490) with a breastfeeding amendment was signed into law on September 29, 1999. It stipulated that no government funds may be used to enforce any prohibition on women breastfeeding their children in Federal buildings or on Federal property. Further, U.S. Public Law 106-58 Sec. 647 enacted in 1999, specifically provides that \"a woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized to be present at the location.\" A majority of states have enacted state statutes specifically permitting the exposure of the female breast by women breastfeeding infants, or exempting such women from prosecution under applicable statutes, such as those regarding indecent exposure.\n\nMost, but not all, state laws have affirmed the same right in their public places. By June 2006, 36 states had enacted legislation to protect breastfeeding mothers and their children. Laws protecting the right to nurse aim to change attitudes and promote increased incidence and duration of breastfeeding. Recent attempts to codify a child's right to nurse were unsuccessful in West Virginia and other states. Breastfeeding in public is legal in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia.\n\nA UK Department of Health survey found that 84% find breastfeeding in public acceptable if done discreetly; however, 67% mothers are worried about general opinion being against public breastfeeding. In Scotland, a bill safeguarding the freedom of women to breastfeed in public was passed in 2005 by the Scottish Parliament. The legislation allows for fines of up to £2500 for preventing breastfeeding in legally permitted places.\n\nIn Canada, the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms gives some protection under sex equality. Although Canadian human rights protection does not explicitly include breastfeeding, a 1989 Supreme Court of Canada decision (Brooks v. Safeway Canada) set the precedent for pregnancy as a condition unique to women and that thus discrimination on the basis of pregnancy is a form of sex discrimination. Canadian legal precedent also allows women the right to bare their breasts, just as men may. In British Columbia, the British Columbia Human Rights Commission Policy and Procedures Manual protects the rights of female workers who wish to breastfeed.\n\nThe following table shows the uptake of exclusive breastfeeding.\n\nIf a mother cannot feed her baby herself, and no wet nurse is available, then other alternatives have to be found, usually animal milk. In addition, once the mother begins to wean her child, the first food is very important.\n\nFeeding vessels dating from about 2000 BC have been found in Egypt. A mother holding a very modern-looking nursing bottle in one hand and a stick, presumably to mix the food, in the other is depicted in a relief found in the ruins of the palace of King Ashurbanipal of Nineveh, who died in 888 BC. Clay feeding vessels were found in graves with infants from the first to fifth centuries AD in Rome.\n\nValerie Fildes writes in her book \"Breasts, bottles and babies. A history of Infant Feeding\" about examples from the 9th to 15th centuries of children getting animal's milk. In the 17th and 18th century Icelandic babies got cow's milk with cream and butter. Human–animal breastfeeding shows that many babies were fed more or less directly from animals , particularly goats.\n\nIn 1582, the Italian physician Geronimo Mercuriali wrote in \"De morbis mulieribus\" (\"On the diseases of women\") that women generally finished breastfeeding an infant exclusively after the third month and entirely around 13 months of age.\n\nThe feeding of flour or cereal mixed with broth or water became the next alternative in the 19th century, but once again quickly faded. Around this time there became an obvious disparity in the feeding habits of those living in rural areas and those in urban areas. Most likely due to the availability of alternative foods, babies in urban areas were breastfed for a much shorter length of time, supplementing the feeds earlier than those in rural areas.\n\nThough first developed by Henri Nestlé in the 1860s, infant formula received a huge boost during the post–World War II baby boom. When business and births decreased, and government strategies in industrialised countries attempted to highlight the benefits of breastfeeding, Nestlé and other such companies focused their aggressive marketing campaigns on developing countries. In 1979 the International Baby Food Action Network (IBFAN) was formed to help raise awareness of such practices as supplementary feeding of new babies with formula and the inappropriate promotion of baby formula, and to help change attitudes that discourage or inhibit mothers from breastfeeding their babies.\n\n"}
{"id": "284029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284029", "title": "Immunization", "text": "Immunization\n\nImmunization, or immunisation, is the process by which an individual's immune system becomes fortified against an agent (known as the immunogen).\n\nWhen this system is exposed to molecules that are foreign to the body, called \"non-self\", it will orchestrate an immune response, and it will also develop the ability to quickly respond to a subsequent encounter because of immunological memory. This is a function of the adaptive immune system. Therefore, by exposing an animal to an immunogen in a controlled way, its body can learn to protect itself: this is called active immunization.\n\nThe most important elements of the immune system that are improved by immunization are the T cells, B cells, and the antibodies B cells produce. Memory B cells and memory T cells are responsible for a swift response to a second encounter with a foreign molecule. Passive immunization is direct introduction of these elements into the body, instead of production of these elements by the body itself.\n\nImmunization is done through various techniques, most commonly vaccination. Vaccines against microorganisms that cause diseases can prepare the body's immune system, thus helping to fight or prevent an infection. The fact that mutations can cause cancer cells to produce proteins or other molecules that are known to the body forms the theoretical basis for therapeutic cancer vaccines. Other molecules can be used for immunization as well, for example in experimental vaccines against nicotine (NicVAX) or the hormone ghrelin in experiments to create an obesity vaccine.\n\nImmunizations are often widely stated as less risky and an easier way to become immune to a particular disease than risking a milder form of the disease itself. They are important for both adults and children in that they can protect us from the many diseases out there. Immunization not only protects children against deadly diseases but also helps in developing children's immune systems. Through the use of immunizations, some infections and diseases have almost completely been eradicated throughout the United States and the World. One example is polio. Thanks to dedicated health care professionals and the parents of children who vaccinated on schedule, polio has been eliminated in the U.S. since 1979. Polio is still found in other parts of the world so certain people could still be at risk of getting it. This includes those people who have never had the vaccine, those who didn't receive all doses of the vaccine, or those traveling to areas of the world where polio is still prevalent.\n\nActive immunization/vaccination has been named one of the \"Ten Great Public Health Achievements in the 20th Century\".\n\nBefore the introduction of vaccines, people could only become immune to an infectious disease by contracting the disease and surviving it. Smallpox (variola) was prevented in this way by inoculation, which produced a milder effect than the natural disease. It was introduced into England from Turkey by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu in 1721 and used by Zabdiel Boylston in Boston the same year. In 1798 Edward Jenner introduced inoculation with cowpox (smallpox vaccine), a much safer procedure. This procedure, referred to as vaccination, gradually replaced smallpox inoculation, now called variolation to distinguish it from vaccination. Until the 1880s vaccine/vaccination referred only to smallpox, but Louis Pasteur developed immunization methods for chicken cholera and anthrax in animals and for human rabies, and suggested that the terms vaccine/vaccination should be extended to cover the new procedures. This can cause confusion if care is not taken to specify which vaccine is used e.g. measles vaccine or influenza vaccine.\n\nImmunization can be achieved in an active or passive manner: vaccination is an active form of immunization.\n\nActive immunization can occur naturally when a person comes in contact with, for example, a microbe. The immune system will eventually create antibodies and other defenses against the microbe. The next time, the immune response against this microbe can be very efficient; this is the case in many of the childhood infections that a person only contracts once, but then is immune.\n\nArtificial active immunization is where the microbe, or parts of it, are injected into the person before they are able to take it in naturally. If whole microbes are used, they are pre-treated.\n\nThe importance of immunization is so great that the American Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has named it one of the \"Ten Great Public Health Achievements in the 20th Century\".\nLive attenuated vaccines have decreased pathogenicity. Their effectiveness depends on the immune systems ability to replicate and elicits a response similar to natural infection. It is usually effective with a single dose. Examples of live, attenuated vaccines include measles, mumps, rubella, MMR, yellow fever, varicella, rotavirus, and influenza (LAIV).\n\nPassive immunization is where pre-synthesized elements of the immune system are transferred to a person so that the body does not need to produce these elements itself. Currently, antibodies can be used for passive immunization. This method of immunization begins to work very quickly, but it is short lasting, because the antibodies are naturally broken down, and if there are no B cells to produce more antibodies, they will disappear.\n\nPassive immunization occurs physiologically, when antibodies are transferred from mother to fetus during pregnancy, to protect the fetus before and shortly after birth.\n\nArtificial passive immunization is normally administered by injection and is used if there has been a recent outbreak of a particular disease or as an emergency treatment for toxicity, as in for tetanus. The antibodies can be produced in animals, called \"serum therapy,\" although there is a high chance of anaphylactic shock because of immunity against animal serum itself. Thus, humanized antibodies produced \"in vitro\" by cell culture are used instead if available.\n\nImmunizations impose what is known as a positive consumer externality on society. In addition to providing the individual with protection against certain antigens it adds greater protection to all other individuals in society through herd immunity. Because this extra protection is not accounted for in the market transactions for immunizations we see an undervaluing of the marginal benefit of each immunization. This market failure is caused by individuals making decisions based on their private marginal benefit instead of the social marginal benefit. Society’s undervaluing of immunizations means that through normal market transactions we end up at a quantity that is lower than what is socially optimal.\n\nFor example, if individual A values their own immunity to an antigen at $100 but the immunization costs $150, individual A will decide against receiving immunization. However, if the added benefit of herd immunity means person B values person A’s immunity at $70 then the total social marginal benefit of their immunization is $170. Individual A’s private marginal benefit being lower than the social marginal benefit leads to an under-consumption of immunizations.\n\nHaving private marginal benefits lower than social marginal benefits will always lead to an under-consumption of any good. The size of the disparity is determined by the value that society places on each different immunization. Many times, immunizations do not reach a socially optimum quantity high enough to eradicate the antigen. Instead, they reach a social quantity that allows for an optimal amount of sick individuals. Most of the commonly immunized diseases in the United States still see a small presence with occasional larger outbreaks. Measles is a good example of a disease whose social optimum leaves enough room for outbreaks in the United States that often lead to the deaths of a handful of individuals. \n\nThere are also examples of illnesses so dangerous that the social optimum ended with the eradication of the virus, such as smallpox. In these cases, the social marginal benefit is so large that society is willing to pay the cost to reach a level of immunization that makes the spread and survival of the disease impossible.\n\nDespite the severity of certain illnesses, the cost of immunization versus the social marginal benefit means that total eradication is not always the end goal of immunization. Though it is hard to tell exactly where the socially optimal outcome is, we know that it is not the eradication of all disease for which an immunization exists.\n\nIn order to internalize the positive externality imposed by immunizations payments equal to the marginal benefit must be made. In countries like the United States these payment usually come in the form of subsidies from the government. Before 1962 immunization programs in the United States were run on the local and state level of governments. The inconsistency in subsidies lead to some regions of the United States reaching the socially optimal quantity while other regions were left without subsidies and remained at the private marginal benefit level of immunizations. Since 1962 and the Vaccination Assistance Act, the United States as a whole has been moving towards the socially optimal outcome on a larger scale. Despite government subsidies it is difficult to tell when social optimum has been achieved. In addition to hardships determining the true social marginal benefit of immunizations we see cultural movements shifting private marginal benefit curves. Vaccine controversies have changed the way some private citizens view the marginal benefit of being immunized. If Individual A believes that there is a large health risk, possibly larger than the antigen itself, associated with immunization they will not be willing to pay for or receive immunization. With fewer willing participants and a widening marginal benefit reaching a social optimum becomes more difficult for governments to achieve through subsidies.\n\nOutside of government intervention through subsidies, non profit organizations can also move a society towards the socially optimal outcome by providing free immunizations to developing regions. Without the ability to afford the immunizations to begin with, developing societies will not be able to reach a quantity determined by private marginal benefits. By running immunization programs organizations are able to move privately under-immunized communities towards the social optimum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39003830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39003830", "title": "Jim Newberger", "text": "Jim Newberger\n\nJames Newberger (born March 6, 1964) is a Minnesota politician and member of the Minnesota House of Representatives. A member of the Republican Party of Minnesota, he represents District 15B in central Minnesota. He is the Republican nominee for the U.S. Senate in 2018.\n\nNewberger attended St. Cloud State University, graduating with a B.A. in political science and mass communications.\n\nNewberger was first elected to the Minnesota House of Representatives in 2012. In April 2015, he drew criticism for statements made on the Minnesota State House Floor linking North Minneapolis to the St. Cloud Prison. \"Right on the edge of St. Cloud, maybe a half a mile, a quarter-mile, from the rail tracks is the St. Cloud State Prison... Boy, wouldn't that be convenient, to have that rail line going from that prison to North Minneapolis...\" This drew boos from other members of the House. Governor Mark Dayton later called for the House Leadership to punish Newberger. \"I think [he] should be reprimanded, if not censured by his leadership\" Dayton said. Shortly after the incident, Newberger made a public apology, saying that he did not mean to offend anyone, but to voice the concerns of the people in his district. Newberger agreed that he should have made his point differently, and said he would be careful about what he says in the future when trying to elucidate the concerns of District 15B. Shortly thereafter, Newberger was reprimanded once again for arguably violating general separation of powers principles in attempting to use his position as an elected official to influence the outcome of a judicial proceeding involving a donor, who was in a dispute that resulted in a judgment against the donor of about $250,000.\n\nNewberger is married to Michele Newberger. They have three daughters and reside in Becker, Minnesota.\n"}
{"id": "46392020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46392020", "title": "Knots of Love", "text": "Knots of Love\n\nKnots of Love is a non-profit organization based in Costa Mesa, California. The organization donates caps, scarves and blankets to cancer patients and others with life-threatening illnesses. Knots of Love has donated over 200,000 caps to patients at cancer treatment centers, infusion centers, hospitals and oncology offices. To date the charity has made + delivered over 350,000 handmade caps to people fighting cancer.\n\nThe following year, the organization exceeded a 2,000 percent growth since its inception. \n\nIn October 2012, Sears launched a Knots of Love jewelry line. Sevenly, a social good apparel company, designed t-shirts and sweatshirts for Knots of Love in December 2012. A portion of the proceeds were donated to the organization. In August 2013, the organization’s volunteers yarn bombed the LAB Antimall in Costa Mesa, California. The volunteers covered the shopping center’s trees, trunks and flower pots with colorful yarn to promote Knots of Love’s campaign to send 8,000 caps to Veteran Affairs hospitals in the United States. A group of Google employees donated 101 caps to the organization that month. Additionally, Knots of Love held a knit cap drive at the Angel Stadium of Anaheim. \n\nThe organization donated its 300,000th handmade cap in June 2016, after reaching its previous milestone of 200,000th caps donated in May 2014. In February 2015, a Newport Beach hair salon donated haircuts to raise $5,000 for Knots of Love.\n\nKnots of love is a 100 percent donation-based nonprofit organization. By July 2016, the organization had donated over 367,000 caps to approximately 588 hospitals.\nKnots of Love donates more than 4,000 caps per month to over 588 cancer treatment centers, infusion centers, hospitals and oncology offices in all 50 states, Mexico, Canada and Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "998245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=998245", "title": "Lake Dunstan", "text": "Lake Dunstan\n\nLake Dunstan is a man-made lake and reservoir in the South Island of New Zealand.\n\nThe lake was formed on the Clutha River as a result of the construction of the Clyde Dam, filling in four controlled stages beginning in April 1992 and completed the next year. Parts of the town of Cromwell were relocated to a new area above the new lake. Between the town of Cromwell and the Clyde Dam the lake passes through what is called the Cromwell Gorge.\n\nLake Dunstan provides irrigation for nearby stone fruit orchards and vineyards, and is a major recreational asset, with facilities for boating, waterskiing, fishing, parapenting, and rowing.\n\nThe dam and lake became well known in New Zealand due to media coverage of the geological problems during its construction. While the dam was being built at least one landslide occurred at Cairnmuir, a series of bluffs overlooking the gorge where the dam was built. All parties involved denied responsibility for not finding the problem.\n\nBecause of the expense of stabilising the gorge walls and the changing economic climate, this was also the last of Rob Muldoon's Think Big projects.\n\nThere was vocal protest against the project from the local community, with calls for the planning and project to cease. Environmentalists, scientists, lawyers, recreational river users, families that had lived here for generations, and others that had recently moved to the area protested, none seemingly more poignantly than the artists.\n\nThere was a perception that the power from the dam was intended for an aluminium smelter near Dunedin. Prominent figures including Ralph Hotere, Andrew Drummond, Chris Cree-Brown and Chris Booth did significant and powerful work that related to the smelter issue, gaining publicity and acclaim with exhibitions and appropriate comment in various art magazines. Other artists worked on the dam issue: Robin Morrison created a sensitive series of portraits on the residents affected by the flooding; Marilynn Webb a compelling series of prints called \"Good Bye- Clutha Blue\" in 1983; Bruce Foster a series of Ciba-chrome prints investigating the pre-construction lines painted on the land, and Lloyd Godman a significant series of large photo-mural prints, toned with gold from the Clutha River, entitled “The Last River's Song”. During the filling of the dam to form Lake Dunstan in 1992 - 93, Godman also completed a series of performance works entitled \"Lake Fill\", which involved using an underwater camera to take a series of photographs of a selected vista up the river showing its gradual obliteration due to the rising lake level.\n"}
{"id": "5606036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5606036", "title": "LifeBridge Health", "text": "LifeBridge Health\n\nLifeBridge Health is a nonprofit healthcare corporation that was formed in 1998 and currently operates several medical institutions in and around Baltimore, Maryland. These institutions include Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, Northwest Hospital in Randallstown, Carroll Hospital in Westminster, Levindale Hebrew Geriatric Center and Hospital, a fitness center (LifeBridge Health & Fitness), and affiliated medical office complexes and subsidiaries.\n\nLifeBridge Health employs more than 7,000 people. Its acute care hospitals admit close to 40,000 patients and provide care for approximately 145,000 emergency visits per year combined.\n\nOn November 6, 2014, the company announced a signed letter of intent to partner with Carroll Hospital Center in Westminster, Maryland. The acquisition was completed April 1, 2015.\n\nLifeBridge Health was formed on October 1, 1998, through the merger of the Sinai Health System (Sinai Hospital of Baltimore and Levindale Hebrew Geriatric Center and Hospital) and Northwest Hospital Center. On April 1, 2015, Lifebridge acquired Carroll Hospital in Westminster.\n\nNorthwest Hospital is a 254-bed, full-service hospital based in Randallstown, Maryland. It was founded in 1963 as the Baltimore County General Hospital and its facilities were designed around the Friesen concept, with nursing alcoves outside each patient room so nurses can spend more time with their patients. More than 700 physicians provide treatment for close to 15,000 patients every year. The hospital includes ambulatory surgery, cardiology, orthopedics, psychiatry, women’s wellness and other service lines.\n\nBrian White is president of Northwest Hospital.\n\nSinai Hospital is a 504-bed hospital based in Baltimore, Maryland. It was founded in 1866 as the Hebrew Hospital and Asylum and is now a Jewish-sponsored ANCC Magnet and teaching hospital that provides care for patients in Baltimore City, Baltimore County and surrounding communities. More than 1,000 physicians provide treatment for almost 26,000 patients every year. The hospital includes award-winning centers of excellence in cardiology, emergency medicine, oncology, orthopedics, pediatrics and other service lines.\n\nDr. Jonathan Ringo is COO of Sinai Hospital.\n\nMembers of Carroll County Health Services Corporation, parent company of Carroll Hospital, voted on March 27, 2015 to approve an affiliation agreement with LifeBridge Health to offer new services and expanded care for the people of Carroll County and the greater Baltimore region. On April 1, 2015, Carroll Hospital became a subsidiary of LifeBridge Health.\n\nIn order to support the mission of Carroll Hospital and its other charitable affiliates, LifeBridge Health will also make a $50 million contribution to the endowment fund of the Carroll Hospital Foundation. The income generated from the endowment helps to fund patient care, scholarships, community education and other community benefit related programs.\n\nLevindale Hebrew Geriatric Center and Hospital, located on Belvedere Avenue across the street from Sinai Hospital, was founded in 1890 as the Hebrew Friendly Inn. Levindale’s 120-bed Specialty Hospital admits more than 1,300 patients every year. The 210-bed Nursing Home provides long-term, subacute and other forms of care for 450 patients every year. Levindale also provides outpatient behavioral care and adult day services.\n\nLifeBridge Health & Fitness is a health and fitness club located in Pikesville, Maryland.\n\nLifeBridge Health primary and specialty care physicians are located at medical offices throughout the state of Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "42662819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42662819", "title": "List of OECD countries by hospital beds", "text": "List of OECD countries by hospital beds\n\nThis is a list of countries by hospital beds per 1000 people as published by the OECD, an important indicator of the health care system of a country. Countries in \"italics\" are non-OECD countries presented for comparison.\n\n"}
{"id": "51473691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51473691", "title": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 2301 to 2400", "text": "List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 2301 to 2400\n\nThis is a list of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 2301 to 2400 adopted between 26 July 2016 and 5 February 2018.\n"}
{"id": "33201202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33201202", "title": "Mark Siegler", "text": "Mark Siegler\n\nMark Siegler (born June 20, 1941) is an American physician who specializes in internal medicine. He is the Lindy Bergman Distinguished Service Professor of Medicine and Surgery at the University of Chicago. One of the nation's leading medical ethicists, he is the Founding Director of the University of Chicago's MacLean Center for Clinical Medical Ethics. Siegler has practiced and taught internal medicine at the University of Chicago for more than 50 years.\n\nIn 2011, the Matthew and Carolyn Bucksbaum Family Foundation presented an endowment of $42 million to the University of Chicago to create the Bucksbaum Institute for Clinical Excellence. Siegler was appointed the Executive Director of the Institute. The mission of the Bucksbaum Institute is to improve patient care, to strengthen the doctor-patient relationship, and to enhance communication and decision-making between patients and physicians through research and education programs for medical students, faculty and master clinicians.\n\nSiegler has published more than 215 journal articles, 65 book chapters and five books. His textbook, co-authored with Al Jonsen and William Winslade, \"Clinical Ethics: A Practical Approach to Ethical Decisions in Clinical Medicine\", 8th Edition (2015), has been translated into eight languages and is widely used by physicians and health professionals around the world. His most recent book, co-edited with Laura Roberts, MD, is titled \"Clinical Medical Ethics: Landmark Works of Mark Siegler, MD\".\n\nClinical medical ethics is a practical, applied field that aims to improve patient care and outcomes. It focuses on issues that arise daily in the routine care of patients, including issues such as truth-telling, informed consent, shared decision-making, confidentiality, and end-of-life care. In the early 1970s at the University of Chicago, Mark Siegler named and helped to launch the field of Clinical Medical Ethics. Clinical ethics helps patients, families, and professionals reach good clinical decisions based on medical facts, patient preferences, and ethical considerations.\n\nThe MacLean Center for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago has played a major role in creating, establishing, and expanding the field of clinical medical ethics. In 1983, the MacLean Center was established after receiving a naming gift from Dorothy Jean MacLean and the MacLean family. Inspired by the clinical models of William Osler and Alvan Feinstein, the MacLean Center has helped to change and expand American medical ethics by helping to bring ethics to the bedside. Regarding the MacLean Center, the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics stated: \"the training program established by you, including more than 450 fellows across almost 35 years, has had a greater impact than any other clinical ethics training program in the world. Through generations of scholars, you have populated the field of clinical ethics in perpetuity.\"\n\nDuring the past 40 years, clinical ethics has emerged as one of the core components of the American bioethics movement. Today, virtually every major hospital has an ethics committee or ethics consultation service available to help resolve most ethical problems; scholarly clinical ethics papers are published widely in both bioethics and medical journals; medical organizations now have ethics committees and codes of ethics; newspapers cover important clinical ethics issues; and most importantly, principles of clinical ethics have become the legal and professional standard of care, and are now an integral part of physicians' routine care for their patients.\n\n1996 - Chirone Prize, Accademia Nazionale di Medicina and the University of Bologna\n\n1997 - Appointed Lindy Bergman Professor at the University of Chicago\n\n2000 - Named Lindy Bergman Distinguished Service Professor at the University of Chicago\n\n2006 - 2010 Served on the Board of Trustees at Princeton University\n\n2007 - Distinguished Service Award, Medical and Biological Sciences Alumni Association, University of Chicago\n\n2010 - Received Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Society of Bioethics and\nHumanities (ASBH)\n\n2011 - Named Executive Director of the Bucksbaum Institute for Clinical Excellence at the University of Chicago\n\n2013 - The MacLean Center received the Cornerstone Award from the American Society of Bioethics and Humanities\n\n2014 - Chosen to present the 25th Annual Coggeshall Lecture on medical ethics, Biological Science Division, University of Chicago\n\n2015 - The John Conley Foundation Award for Outstanding Contributions to Clinical Ethics.\n\n2015 - Elected a Master of the American College of Physicians (MACP)\n\n2016 - Johns Hopkins Berman Institute Harvey M. Meyerhoff Leadership in Bioethics Award\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6750107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6750107", "title": "Mediterranean Diet Foundation", "text": "Mediterranean Diet Foundation\n\nThe Mediterranean Diet Foundation (Fundación Dieta Mediterránea, F.D.M.) is a non-profit organization based in Barcelona that aims to promote the study, investigation and dissemination of the benefits of the Mediterranean diet.\n\nIts mission is to promote investigation of the health, historical, cultural and gastronomical aspects of the Mediterranean diet. Another of the Foundation’s objectives is the dissemination of scientific findings about the diet and the promotion of its healthful use among different population groups.\n\nA group of companies from the food and agriculture sector wished to alert the public of the risks of abandoning healthy eating patterns, especially for children. They decided to create the Association for the Advancement of the Mediterranean Diet in 1995, with the mission of encouraging the consumption of traditional Mediterranean products.\n\nThe ADDM, jointly with other institutions such as the Barcelona City Council, created the Foundation in 1996.\n\nThe Mediterranean Diet Foundation is registered under the Spanish Agriculture, Food and Environment Ministry (Ministerio de Agricultura, Alimentación y Medio Ambiente), with the Registry Number 6/2006.\n\nThe FDM team includes Lluís Serra Majem (President), Francisco Sensat Alemany (Vice-president), Joan Castells Gómez (Director), Anna Bach and Blanca Roman (Science Coordinators) and Isabel Bertomeu (Nutritionist).\n\nThe FDM Scientific Secretariat is located in the Parc Científic of Barcelona, a science park that houses different research groups and organizations, both independent and affiliated with the University of Barcelona.\n\nThe scientific committee consists of 23 recognized international investigators from 12 different Mediterranean and non-Mediterranean countries. It advises the Foundation on scientific matters and is presided over by the President of the Foundation, Lluís Serra Majem, Professor of Preventative Medicine and Public Health at the University of Las Palmas in Gran Canaria.\n\nThe FDM has been involved in a variety of activities, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11321017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11321017", "title": "Multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis", "text": "Multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis\n\nMulti-drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is a form of tuberculosis (TB) infection caused by bacteria that are resistant to treatment with at least two of the most powerful first-line anti-TB medications (drugs), isoniazid and rifampin. Some forms of TB are also resistant to second-line medications, and are called extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB).\n\nTuberculosis is caused by infection with the bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Almost one in four people in the world are infected with TB bacteria. Only when the bacteria become active do people become ill with TB. Bacteria become active as a result of anything that can reduce the person's immunity, such as HIV, advancing age, diabetes or other immunocompromising illnesses. TB can usually be treated with a course of four standard, or first-line, anti-TB drugs (i.e., isoniazid, rifampin and any fluoroquinolone).\n\nHowever, beginning with the first antibiotic treatment for TB in 1943, some strains of the TB bacteria developed resistance to the standard drugs through genetic changes (see mechanisms.) Currently the majority of multidrug-resistant cases of TB are due to one strain of TB bacteria called the Beijing lineage. This process accelerates if incorrect or inadequate treatments are used, leading to the development and spread of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB). Incorrect or inadequate treatment may be due to use of the wrong medications, use of only one medication (standard treatment is at least two drugs), not taking medication consistently or for the full treatment period (treatment is required for several months). Treatment of MDR-TB requires second-line drugs (i.e., fluoroquinolones, aminoglycosides, and others), which in general are less effective, more toxic and much more expensive than first-line drugs. Treatment schedules for MDR-TB involving fluoroquinolones and aminoglycosides can run for 2 years, compared to the 6 months of first-line drug treatment, and cost over $100,000 USD. If these second-line drugs are prescribed or taken incorrectly, further resistance can develop leading to XDR-TB.\n\nResistant strains of TB are already present in the population, so MDR-TB can be directly transmitted from an infected person to an uninfected person. In this case a previously untreated person develops a new case of MDR-TB. This is known as primary MDR-TB, and is responsible for up to 75% of cases. Acquired MDR-TB develops when a person with a non-resistant strain of TB is treated inadequately, resulting in the development of antibiotic resistance in the TB bacteria infecting them. These people can in turn infect other people with MDR-TB.\n\nMDR-TB caused an estimated 600,000 new TB cases and 240,000 deaths in 2016 and MDR-TB accounts for 4.1% of all new TB cases and 19% of previously treated cases worldwide. Globally, most MDR-TB cases occur in South America, Southern Africa, India, China, and the former Soviet Union.\n\nTreatment of MDR-TB requires treatment with second-line drugs, usually four or more anti-TB drugs for a minimum of 6 months, and possibly extending for 18–24 months if rifampin resistance has been identified in the specific strain of TB with which the patient has been infected. Under ideal program conditions, MDR-TB cure rates can approach 70%.\nThe TB bacteria has natural defenses against some drugs, and can acquire drug resistance through genetic mutations. The bacteria does not have the ability to transfer genes for resistance between organisms through plasmids (see horizontal transfer). Some mechanisms of drug resistance include:\n\nOne example is a mutation in the \"rpoB\" gene, which encodes the beta subunit of the bacteria's RNA polymerase. In non-resistant TB, rifampin binds the beta subunit of RNA polymerase and disrupt transcription elongation. Mutation in the \"rpoB\" gene changes the sequence of amino acids and eventual conformation of the beta subunit. In this case rifampin can no longer bind or prevent transcription, and the bacteria is resistant.\n\nOther mutations make the bacterium resistant to other drugs. For example, there are many mutations that confer resistance to isoniazid (INH), including in the genes \"katG\", \"inhA\", \"ahpC\" and others. Amino acid replacements in the NADH binding site of InhA apparently result in INH resistance by preventing the inhibition of mycolic acid biosynthesis, which the bacterium uses in its cell wall. Mutations in the \"katG\" gene make the enzyme catalase peroxidase unable to convert INH to its biologically active form. Hence, INH is ineffective and the bacteria is resistant. The discovery of new molecular targets is essential to overcome drug resistant problems.\n\nIn some TB bacteria, the acquisition of these mutations can be explained other mutations in the DNA recombination, recognition and repair machinery. Mutations in these genes allow the bacteria to have a higher overall mutation rate and to accumulate mutations that cause drug resistance more quickly.\n\nMDR-TB can become resistant to the major second-line TB drug groups: fluoroquinolones (moxifloxacin, ofloxacin) and injectable aminoglycoside or polypeptide drugs (amikacin, capreomycin, kanamycin). When MDR-TB is resistant to at least one drug from each group, it is classified as extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB).\n\nIn a study of MDR-TB patients from 2005 to 2008 in various countries, 43.7% had resistance to at least one second-line drug. About 9% of MDR-TB cases are resistant to a drug from both classes and classified as XDR-TB.\n\nIn the past 10 years TB strains have emerged in Italy, Iran, India, and South Africa which are resistant to all available first and second line TB drugs, classified as totally drug-resistant tuberculosis, though there is some controversy over this term. Increasing levels of resistance in TB strains threaten to complicate the current global public health approaches to TB control. New drugs are being developed to treat extensively resistant forms but major improvements in detection, diagnosis, and treatment will be needed.\n\nThere are several ways that drug resistance to TB, and drug resistance in general, can be prevented:\n\n\"Opponents of a universal tuberculosis treatment, reasoning from misguided notions of cost-effectiveness, fail to acknowledge that MDRTB is not a disease of poor people in distant places. The disease is infectious and airborne. Treating only one group of patients looks inexpensive in the short run, but will prove disastrous for all in the long run.\"— Paul Farmer \n\nCommunity-based treatment programs such as DOTS-Plus, a MDR-TB-specialized treatment using the popular Directly Observed Therapy – Short Course (DOTS) initiative, have shown considerable success in the world. In these locales, these programs have proven to be a good option for proper treatment of MDR-TB in poor, rural areas. A successful example has been in Lima, Peru, where the program has seen cure rates of over 80%.\n\nHowever, TB clinicians have expressed concern in the DOTS program administered in the Republic of Georgia because it is anchored in a passive case finding. This means that the system depends on patients coming to health care providers, without conducting compulsory screenings. As medical anthropologists like Erin Koch have shown, this form of implementation does not suit all cultural structures. They urge that the DOTS protocol be constantly reformed in the context of local practices, forms of knowledge and everyday life.\n\nErin Koch has utilized Paul Farmer's concept of \"structural\" violence as a perspective for understanding how \"institutions, environment, poverty, and power reproduce, solidify, and naturalize the uneven distribution of disease and access to resources\". She has also studied the effectiveness of the DOTS protocol in the widespread disease of tuberculosis in the Georgian prison system. Unlike the DOTS passive case finding utilized for the general Georgian public, the multiple-level surveillance in the prison system has proven more successful in reducing the spread of tuberculosis while increasing rates of cure.\n\nKoch critically notes that because the DOTS protocol aims to change the individual's behavior without addressing the need to change the institutional, political, and economic contexts, certain limitations arise, such as MDR tuberculosis.\n\nPaul Farmer believes that DOTS should be the cornerstone of tuberculosis control around the world.\n\nUsually, multidrug-resistant tuberculosis can be cured with long treatments of second-line drugs, but these are more expensive than first-line drugs and have more adverse effects. The treatment and prognosis of MDR-TB are much more akin to those for cancer than to those for infection. MDR-TB has a mortality rate of up to 80%, which depends on a number of factors, including:\n\nThe majority of patients suffering from multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis do not receive treatment, as they are found in underdeveloped countries or in poverty. Denial of treatment remains a difficult human rights issue, as the high cost of second-line medications often precludes those who cannot afford therapy.\n\nA study of cost-effective strategies for tuberculosis control supported three major policies. First, the treatment of smear-positive cases in DOTS programs must be the foundation of any tuberculosis control approach, and should be a basic practice for all control programs. Second, there is a powerful economic case for treating smear-negative and extra-pulmonary cases in DOTS programs along with treating smear-negative and extra-pulmonary cases in DOTS programs as a new WHO \"STOP TB\" approach and the second global plan for tuberculosis control. Last, but not least, the study shows that significant scaling up of all interventions is needed in the next 10 years if the millennium development goal and related goals for tuberculosis control are to be achieved. If the case detection rate can be improved, this will guarantee that people who gain access to treatment facilities are covered and that coverage is widely distributed to people who do not now have access.\n\nIn general, treatment courses are measured in months to years; MDR-TB may require surgery, and death rates remain high despite optimal treatment. However, good outcomes for patients are still possible.\n\nThe treatment of MDR-TB must be undertaken by physicians experienced in the treatment of MDR-TB. Mortality and morbidity in patients treated in non-specialist centers are significantly higher to those of patients treated in specialist centers. Treatment of MDR-TB must be done on the basis of sensitivity testing: it is impossible to treat such patients without this information. When treating a patient with suspected MDR-TB, pending the result of laboratory sensitivity testing, the patient could be started on SHREZ (Streptomycin+ isonicotinyl Hydrazine+ Rifampicin+Ethambutol+ pyraZinamide) and moxifloxacin with cycloserine. There is evidence that previous therapy with a drug for more than a month is associated with diminished efficacy of that drug regardless of \"in vitro\" tests indicating susceptibility. Hence, a detailed knowledge of the treatment history of each patient is essential. In addition to the obvious risks (i.e., known exposure to a patient with MDR-TB), risk factors for MDR-TB include HIV infection, previous incarceration, failed TB treatment, failure to respond to standard TB treatment, and relapse following standard TB treatment.\n\nA gene probe for \"rpoB\" is available in some countries. This serves as a useful marker for MDR-TB, because isolated RMP resistance is rare (except when patients have a history of being treated with rifampicin alone). If the results of a gene probe (\"rpoB\") are known to be positive, then it is reasonable to omit RMP and to use SHEZ+MXF+cycloserine. The reason for maintaining the patient on INH is that INH is so potent in treating TB that it is foolish to omit it until there is microbiological proof that it is ineffective (even though isoniazid resistance so commonly occurs with rifampicin resistance).\n\nFor treatment of RR- and MDT-TB, WHO treatment guidelines are as follows: \"a regimen with at least five effective TB medicines during the intensive phase is recommended, including pyrazinamide and four core second-line TB medicines – one chosen from Group A, one from Group B, and at least two from Group C3 (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in the evidence). If the minimum number of effective TB medicines cannot be composed as given above, an agent from Group D2 and other agents from Group D3 may be added to bring the total to five. It is recommended that the regimen be further strengthened with high-dose isoniazid and/or ethambutol (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in the evidence).\" Medicines recommended are the following:\n\n\nFor patients with RR-TB or MDR-TB, \"not previously treated with second-line drugs and in whom resistance to fluoroquinolones and second-line injectable agents was excluded or is considered highly unlikely, a shorter MDR-TB regimen of 9–12 months may be used instead of the longer regimens (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in the evidence).\" \n\nIn general, resistance to one drug within a class means resistance to all drugs within that class, but a notable exception is rifabutin: Rifampicin-resistance does not always mean rifabutin-resistance, and the laboratory should be asked to test for it. It is possible to use only one drug within each drug class. If it is difficult finding five drugs to treat then the clinician can request that high-level INH-resistance be looked for. If the strain has only low-level INH-resistance (resistance at 0.2 mg/l INH, but sensitive at 1.0 mg/l INH), then high dose INH can be used as part of the regimen. When counting drugs, PZA and interferon count as zero; that is to say, when adding PZA to a four-drug regimen, another drug must be chosen to make five. It is not possible to use more than one injectable (STM, capreomycin or amikacin), because the toxic effect of these drugs is additive: If possible, the aminoglycoside should be given daily for a minimum of three months (and perhaps thrice weekly thereafter). Ciprofloxacin should not be used in the treatment of tuberculosis if other fluoroquinolones are available. As of 2008, Cochrane reports that trials of other fluoroquinolones are ongoing.\n\nThere is no intermittent regimen validated for use in MDR-TB, but clinical experience is that giving injectable drugs for five days a week (because there is no-one available to give the drug at weekends) does not seem to result in inferior results. Directly observed therapy helps to improve outcomes in MDR-TB and should be considered an integral part of the treatment of MDR-TB.\n\nResponse to treatment must be obtained by repeated sputum cultures (monthly if possible). Treatment for MDR-TB must be given for a minimum of 18 months and cannot be stopped until the patient has been culture-negative for a minimum of nine months. It is not unusual for patients with MDR-TB to be on treatment for two years or more.\n\nPatients with MDR-TB should be isolated in negative-pressure rooms, if possible. Patients with MDR-TB should not be accommodated on the same ward as immunosuppressed patients (HIV-infected patients, or patients on immunosuppressive drugs). Careful monitoring of compliance with treatment is crucial to the management of MDR-TB (and some physicians insist on hospitalisation if only for this reason). Some physicians will insist that these patients remain isolated until their sputum is smear-negative, or even culture-negative (which may take many months, or even years). Keeping these patients in hospital for weeks (or months) on end may be a practical or physical impossibility, and the final decision depends on the clinical judgement of the physician treating that patient. The attending physician should make full use of therapeutic drug monitoring (in particular, of the aminoglycosides) both to monitor compliance and to avoid toxic effects.\n\nSome supplements may be useful as adjuncts in the treatment of tuberculosis, but, for the purposes of counting drugs for MDR-TB, they count as zero (if four drugs are already in the regimen, it may be beneficial to add arginine or vitamin D or both, but another drug will be needed to make five). Supplements are:\narginine (peanuts are a good source),\nvitamin D,\nDzherelo,\nV5 Immunitor.\n\nThe drugs listed below have been used in desperation, and it is uncertain as to whether they are effective at all. They are used when it is not possible to find five drugs from the list above.\nimipenem,\nco-amoxiclav,\nclofazimine,\nprochlorperazine,\nmetronidazole.\n\nOn 28 December 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved bedaquiline (marketed as Sirturo by Johnson & Johnson) to treat multi-drug resistant tuberculosis, the first new treatment in 40 years. Sirturo is to be used in a combination therapy for patients who have failed standard treatment and have no other options. Sirturo is an adenosine triphosphate synthase (ATP synthase) inhibitor.\n\nThe following drugs are experimental compounds that are not commercially available, but may be obtained from the manufacturer as part of a clinical trial or on a compassionate basis. Their efficacy and safety are unknown:\npretomanid (manufactured by Novartis, developed in partnership with TB Alliance), and\ndelamanid.\n\nIn cases of extremely resistant disease, surgery to remove infection portions of the lung is, in general, the final option. The center with the largest experience in this is the National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver, Colorado. In 17 years of experience, they have performed 180 operations; of these, 98 were lobectomies and 82 were pneumonectomies. There is a 3.3% operative mortality, with an additional 6.8% dying following the operation; 12% experienced significant morbidity (in particular, extreme breathlessness). Of 91 patients who were culture-positive before surgery, only 4 were culture-positive after surgery.\n\nThe resurgence of tuberculosis in the United States, the advent of HIV-related tuberculosis, and the development of strains of TB resistant to the first-line therapies developed in recent decades—serve to reinforce the thesis that Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative organism, makes its own preferential option for the poor. The simple truth is that almost all tuberculosis deaths result from a lack of access to existing effective therapy.\n\nCases of MDR tuberculosis have been reported in every country surveyed. MDR-TB most commonly develops in the course of TB treatment, and is most commonly due to doctors giving inappropriate treatment, or patients missing doses or failing to complete their treatment. Because MDR tuberculosis is an airborne pathogen, persons with active, pulmonary tuberculosis caused by a multidrug-resistant strain can transmit the disease if they are alive and coughing. TB strains are often less fit and less transmissible, and outbreaks occur more readily in people with weakened immune systems (e.g., patients with HIV). Outbreaks among non immunocompromised healthy people do occur, but are less common.\n\nAs of 2013, 3.7% of new tuberculosis cases have MDR-TB. Levels are much higher in those previously treated for tuberculosis - about 20%. WHO estimates that there were about 0.5 million new MDR-TB cases in the world in 2011. About 60% of these cases occurred in Brazil, China, India, the Russian Federation and South Africa alone. In Moldova, the crumbling health system has led to the rise of MDR-TB. In 2013, the Mexico–United States border was noted to be \"a very hot region for drug resistant TB\", though the number of cases remained small.\n\nIt has been known for many years that INH-resistant TB is less virulent in guinea pigs, and the epidemiological evidence is that MDR strains of TB do not dominate naturally. A study in Los Angeles, California, found that only 6% of cases of MDR-TB were clustered. Likewise, the appearance of high rates of MDR-TB in New York City in the early 1990s was associated with the explosion of AIDS in that area. In New York City, a report issued by city health authorities states that fully 80 percent of all MDR-TB cases could be traced back to prisons and homeless shelters. When patients have MDR-TB, they require longer periods of treatment—about two years of multidrug regimen. Several of the less powerful second-line drugs, which are required to treat MDR-TB, are also more toxic, with side effects such as nausea, abdominal pain, and even psychosis. The Partners in Health team had treated patients in Peru who were sick with strains that were resistant to ten and even twelve drugs. Most such patients require adjuvant surgery for any hope of a cure.\n\nOne of the so-called \"hot-spots\" of drug-resistant tuberculosis is within the Russian prison system. Infectious disease researchers Nachega & Chaisson report that 10% of the one million prisoners within the system have active TB. One of their studies found that 75% of newly diagnosed inmates with TB are resistant to at least one drug; 40% of new cases are multi-drug resistant. In 1997, TB accounted for almost half of all Russian prison deaths, and as Bobrik et al. point out in their public health study, the 90% reduction in TB incidence contributed to a consequential fall in the prisoner death rate in the years following 1997. Baussano et al. articulate that concerning statistics like these are especially worrisome because spikes in TB incidence in prisons are linked to corresponding outbreaks in surrounding communities. Additionally, rising rates of incarceration, especially in Central Asian and Eastern European countries like Russia, have been correlated with higher TB rates in civilian populations. Even as the DOTS program is expanded throughout Russian prisons, researchers such as Shin et al. have noted that wide-scale interventions have not had their desired effect, especially with regard to the spread of drug-resistant strains of TB.\n\nThere are several elements of the Russian prison system that enable the spread of MDR-TB and heighten its severity. Overcrowding in prisons is especially conducive to the spread of tuberculosis; an inmate in a prison hospital has (on average) 3 meters of personal space, and an inmate in a correctional colony has 2 meters. Specialized hospitals and treatment facilities within the prison system, known as TB colonies, are intended to isolate infected prisoners to prevent transmission; however, as Ruddy et al. demonstrate, there are not enough of these colonies to sufficiently protect staff and other inmates. Additionally, many cells lack adequate ventilation, which increases likelihood of transmission. Bobrik et al. have also noted food shortages within prisons, which deprive inmates of the nutrition necessary for healthy functioning.\n\nComorbidity of HIV within prison populations has also been shown to worsen health outcomes. Nachega & Chaisson articulate that while HIV-infected prisoners are not more susceptible MDR-TB infection, they are more likely to progress to serious clinical illness if infected. According to Stern, HIV infection is 75 times more prevalent in Russian prison populations than in the civilian population. Therefore, prison inmates are both more likely to become infected with MDR-TB initially and to experience severe symptoms because of previous exposure to HIV.\n\nShin et al. emphasize another factor in MDR-TB prevalence in Russian prisons: alcohol and substance use. Ruddy et al. showed that risk for MDR-TB is three times higher among recreational drug users than non-users. Shin et al.'s study demonstrated that alcohol usage was linked to poorer outcomes in MDR-TB treatment; they also noted that a majority of subjects within their study (many of whom regularly used alcohol) were nevertheless cured by their aggressive treatment regimen.\n\nNon-compliance with treatment plans is often cited as a contributor to MDR-TB transmission and mortality. Indeed, of the 80 newly-released TB-infected inmates in Fry et al.'s study, 73.8% did not report visiting a community dispensary for further treatment. Ruddy et al. cite release from facilities as one of the main causes of interruption in prisoner's TB treatment, in addition to non-compliance within the prison and upon reintegration into civilian life. Fry et al.'s study also listed side effects of TB treatment medications (especially in HIV positive individuals), financial worries, housing insecurities, family problems, and fear of arrest as factors that prevented some prisoners from properly adhering to TB treatment. They also note that some researchers have argued that the short-term gains TB-positive prisoners receive, such as better food or work exclusion, may dis-incentivize becoming cured. In their World Health Organization article, Gelmanova et al. posit that non-adherence to TB treatment indirectly contributes to bacterial resistance. Although ineffective or inconsistent treatment does not \"create\" resistant strains, mutations within the high bacterial load in non-adherent prisoners can cause resistance.\n\nNachega & Chaisson argue that inadequate TB control programs are the strongest driver of MDR-TB incidence. They note that prevalence of MDR-TB is 2.5 times higher in areas of poorly controlled TB. Russian-based therapy (i.e., not DOTS) has been criticized by Kimerling et al. as “inadequate” in properly controlling TB incidence and transmission. Bobrik et al. note that treatment for MDR-TB is equally inconsistent; the second-line drugs used to treat the prisoners lack specific treatment guidelines, infrastructure, training, or follow-up protocols for prisoners reentering civilian life.\n\nAs Ruddy et al. note in their scholarly article, Russia's recent penal reforms will greatly reduce the number of inmates inside prison facilities and thus increase the number of ex-convicts integrated into civilian populations. Because the incidence of MDR-TB is strongly predicted by past imprisonment, the health of Russian society will be greatly impacted by this change. Formerly incarcerated Russians will re-enter civilian life and remain within that sphere; as they live as civilians, they will infect others with the contagions they were exposed to in prison. Researcher Vivian Stern argues that the risk of transmission from prison populations to the general public calls for an integration of prison healthcare and national health services to better control both TB and MDR-TB. While second-line drugs necessary for treating MDR-TB are arguably more expensive than a typical regimen of DOTS therapy, infectious disease specialist Paul Farmer posits that the outcome of leaving infected prisoners untreated could cause a massive outbreak of MDR-TB in civilian populations, thereby inflicting a heavy toll on society. Additionally, as MDR-TB spreads, the threat of the emergence of totally-drug-resistant TB becomes increasingly apparent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1973781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973781", "title": "NAICS 11", "text": "NAICS 11\n\nNAICS sector 11 (abbreviated to NAICS 11) is a sub-classification of economic activity that covers agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting in the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) system in Canada, the United States and Mexico.\n\nThe Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting sector comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing crops, raising animals, harvesting timber, and harvesting fish and other animals from a farm, ranch, or their natural habitats.\n\nThe establishments in this sector are often described as farms, ranches, dairies, greenhouses, nurseries, orchards, or hatcheries. A farm may consist of a single tract of land or a number of separate tracts which may be held under different tenures. For example, one tract may be owned by the farm operator and another rented. It may be operated by the operator alone or with the assistance of members of the household or hired employees, or it may be operated by a partnership, corporation, or other type of organization. When a landowner has one or more tenants, renters, croppers, or managers, the land operated by each is considered a farm.\n\nThe sector distinguishes two basic activities: agricultural production and agricultural support activities. Agricultural production includes establishments performing the complete farm or ranch operation, such as farm owner-operators, tenant farm operators, and sharecroppers. Agricultural support activities include establishments that perform one or more activities associated with farm operation, such as soil preparation, planting, harvesting, and management, on a contract or fee basis.\n\nExcluded from the Agriculture, Forestry, Hunting and Fishing sector are establishments primarily engaged in agricultural research and establishments primarily engaged in administering programs for regulating and conserving land, mineral, wildlife, and forest use. These establishments are classified in Industry 54171, Research and Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences; and Industry 92412, Administration of Conservation Programs, respectively.\n\nThe values for NAICS codes beginning with 11 are summarized below.\n\n"}
{"id": "58034147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58034147", "title": "Nicolae Marinescu (general)", "text": "Nicolae Marinescu (general)\n\nNicolae Marinescu (2 September 1884 - 28 April 1963) was a Romanian medical doctor, an army general in World War II, and a politician, holding various cabinet positions.\n"}
{"id": "7254382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7254382", "title": "Nurse-managed health center", "text": "Nurse-managed health center\n\nA nurse-managed health center provides health care services in medically underserved rural and urban areas in the United States where there is limited access to health care. Nurse-managed health centers provide health care to thousands of uninsured and underinsured people every year. Nurse-managed health centers are usually affiliated with nursing schools, universities, and/or independent non-profit organizations. Managed by advanced practice nurses, nurse-managed health centers provide health care to vulnerable communities using a nursing model.\n\nThe first nurse-managed health center was created at Arizona State University over 25 years ago, and it is still in existence today. Now, there are approximately 250 Nurse-Managed Health Centers in the United States, located in 39 states and the District of Columbia. Currently, Philadelphia has more Nurse-Managed Health Centers than any other city in the United States.\nNurse-managed health centers serve populations that are demographically similar to those served by Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs). In some cases, Nurse-Managed Health Centers are FQHCs. Nurse-Managed Health Centers tend to be located in or near low-income communities. Over half of the patients seen at Nurse-Managed Health Centers are females who come from racial/ethnic minority populations and are likely to have experienced health disparities. \nNurse-Managed Health Centers are managed and staffed by advanced practice nurses, including nurse practitioners. In some Nurse-Managed Health Centers, nurses collaborate with physicians to provide care. In other Nurse-Managed Health Centers, nurses work independently.\n\nThe National Nursing Centers Consortium is the national nonprofit organization that works to advance nurse-led health care through policy, consultation, programs and applied research to reduce health disparities and meet people’s primary care and wellness needs. The nation’s 250 nurse-managed health clinics reduce health disparities by providing high quality comprehensive primary health care, health promotion and disease prevention services to uninsured, under-insured and vulnerable patients in rural, urban and suburban communities.\n\nMany Nurse-Managed Health Centers provide a full range of primary care services including preventive care, similar to services provided by primary care physicians. Research has shown, however, that nurses in Nurse Managed Health Centers spend more time with patients and include more preventive care than physicians. Some Nurse-Managed Health Centers also provide behavioral health services, including family and couples therapy. In addition, all Nurse-Managed Health Centers provide health promotion, wellness, and disease management services. \nNurse-Managed Health Centers also focus on preventive health care, especially regarding certain chronic conditions like asthma, hypertension, diabetes, and obesity. This focus on preventative, holistic health care has been shown to reduce emergency room usage and decrease the length of hospital stays among Nurse-Managed Health Center patients.\n\nThe National Nursing Centers Consortium (NNCC) is a 501(c)3 and is the national organization supporting and advocating on behalf of NMHCs and nurse-led care. NNCC currently represents more than 250 NMHCs throughout the nation. They advocate for policy initiatives at the state and federal level on behalf of nurse practitioners scope of practice and also increased funding for NMHCs. NNCC is headquartered in Philadelphia, PA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22083147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22083147", "title": "Perineometer", "text": "Perineometer\n\nA Kegel perineometer or vaginal manometer is an instrument for measuring the strength of voluntary contractions of the pelvic floor muscles. Arnold Kegel (1894–1981) was the gynecologist who invented the Kegel perineometer (used for measuring vaginal air pressure) and Kegel exercises (squeezing of the muscles of the pelvic floor). This followed the observation that muscles of the pelvic floor inevitably weakened following the trauma of childbirth. Ascertaining the air pressure inside the vagina by insertion of a perineometer, while requesting the woman to squeeze as hard as possible, indicates whether or not she would benefit from strengthening the vaginal muscles using the Kegel exercises. More modern electromyograph (EMG) perineometers, which measure electrical activity in the pelvic floor muscles, may be more effective in this purpose. Assessment of pelvic floor strength during gynaecological examination may help to identify women with fascial defects of the pelvic floor, as well as those at risk of genital prolapse or urinary incontinence. Both the Kegel perineometer and a digital examination are effective and concordant in their results in this assessment.\n\n"}
{"id": "57476595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57476595", "title": "Polish Society of Nephrology", "text": "Polish Society of Nephrology\n\nPolish Society of Nephrology (PSN; Polish: Polskie Towarzystwo Nefrologiczne) – non-profit medical-scientific association, established in 1983, with a current headquarters in Warsaw that unites nephrologists, physicians and other scholars, experts and professionals in the fields of kidney diseases, dialysis therapy and renal transplantation.\n\nPolish Society of Nephrology was established during the First Funding Congress, which was held in September 1983 in Bydgoszcz and registered in the District Court in Łódź. To that time there were two separate societies gathering doctors and other health care professionals specialized in kidney diseases - Nephrology Committee of the Polish Academy of Science chaired by Professor Tadeusz Orłowski and Nephrology Section of the Polish Society of Internal Medicine chaired by Professor Kazimierz Trznadel.\n\nThe main initiator of establishment of PSN was Professor Franciszek Kokot, who was then an active member of international nephrology societies i.e. European Dialysis and Transplantation Association. The last conference of the Nephrology Section of the Polish Society of Internal Medicine was thereby the First Funding Congress of PSN. During the Congress Society’s Statute was established and the first Board was elected. The first President of PSN was Professor Tadeusz Orłowski.\n\nThe main aim of the Society is to represent nephrologists’ community i.e. to develop and promote up-to-date clinical practice in the fields of nephrology, dialysis therapy and kidney transplantation as well as to take part in health care organization in the area of Society’s competence. PSN promotes kidney health by organizing educational meetings and cooperating with patient organizations. The aim of PSN is also to promote continuous professional development, research activities and international cooperation among its members.\n\nYoung Nephrologists’ Club (YNC) of the PSN was established in 2014. The aim of the YNC is to cooperate with the Young Nephrologists’ Platform of the ERA-EDTA and to promote improvements in continuous professional development as well as research activities among young doctors and other professionals in the fields of nephrology, dialysis therapy and renal transplantation.\n\nPSN Congresses are organized every three years. As yet twelve Congresses were held in the following locations in Poland:\n\n1st Congress - Bydgoszcz (1983)\n\n2nd Congress - Kraków (1986)\n\n3rd Congress - Gdańsk (1989)\n\n4th Congress - Katowice (1992)\n\n5th Congress - Lublin (1995)\n\n6th Congress - Poznań (1998)\n\n7th Congress - Kraków (2001)\n\n8th Congress - Białystok (2004)\n\n9th Congress – Katowice/Wisła (2007)\n\n10th Congress - Bydgoszcz (2010)\n\n11th Congress - Wrocław (2013)\n\n12th Congress - Łódź (2016)\n\n13th Congress will be held in 2019 in Poznań.\n\nAnnual conferences are organized between the congresses. Local committees meetings are held 2-3 times a year.\n\nSeveral scientific meetings are endorsed by PSN and include “Olgierd Smoleński Cracovian Days of Dialysis Therapy”, Katowice Seminars “Advances in Nephrology and Hypertension”, Post-ASN Meetings, German-Czech-Polish Symposia “Modern Aspects of Nephrology and Hypertension”, Nephrocardiology Conferences and Top Nephrological Trends Congresses.\n\n● Polish Nephrology and Dialysis Therapy - established in 1997, edited by Przegląd Lekarski publisher, publishes original papers, reviews, statements and recommendations, letters to editor and case reports. The editor-in-chief is Professor Władysław Sułowicz.\n\n● Nephrology Forum - issued since 2008, edited by Via Medica publisher, publishes most of all reviews, recommendations and guidelines. The editor-in-chief is Professor Bolesław Rutkowski.\n\n"}
{"id": "5649380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5649380", "title": "Posterior urethral valve", "text": "Posterior urethral valve\n\nPosterior urethral valve (PUV) disorder is an obstructive developmental anomaly in the urethra and genitourinary system of male newborns. A posterior urethral valve is an obstructing membrane in the posterior male urethra as a result of abnormal \"in utero\" development. It is the most common cause of bladder outlet obstruction in male newborns. The disorder varies in degree, with mild cases presenting late due to milder symptoms. More severe cases can have renal and respiratory failure from lung underdevelopment as result of low amniotic fluid volumes, requiring intensive care and close monitoring. It occurs in about one in 8000 babies.\n\n Posterior urethral obstruction was first classified by H. H. Young in 1919. The \"verumontanum\", or mountain ridge, is a distinctive landmark in the prostatic urethra, important in the systemic division of posterior valve disorders:\n\n\nDewan has suggested that obstruction in the posterior urethra is more appropriately termed congenital obstructions of the posterior urethral membrane (COPUMs), a concept that has come from an in-depth analysis of the historical papers, and evaluation of patients with a prenatal diagnosis that has facilitated video recording of the uninstrumented obstructed urethra. The congenital obstructive lesions in the bulbar urethra, named Type III Valves by Young in 1919, have been eponymously referred to as Cobb's collar or Moorman's ring. For each of the COPUM (Posterior Urethra) and Cobb's (Bulbar Urethra) lesions, the degree of obstruction can be variable, consistent with a variable expression of the embryopathy. The now nearly one hundred year old nomenclature of posterior urethral valves was based on limited radiology and primitive endoscopy, thus a change COPUM or Cobb's has been appropriate.\n\nAbdominal ultrasound is of some benefit, but not diagnostic. Features that suggest posterior urethral valves are bilateral hydronephrosis, a thickened bladder wall with thickened smooth muscle trabeculations, and bladder diverticula.\n\nVoiding cystourethrogram (VCUG) is more specific for the diagnosis. Normal \"plicae circularis\" are variable in appearance and often not seen on normal VCUGs. PUV on voiding cystourethrogram is characterized by an abrupt tapering of urethral caliber near the verumontanum, with the specific level depending on the developmental variant. Vesicoureteral reflux is also seen in over 50% of cases. Very often the posterior urethra maybe dilated thus making the abrupt narrowing more obvious. the bladder wall may show trabeculations or sacculations or even diverticuli.\n\nDiagnosis can also be made by cystoscopy, where a small camera is inserted into the urethra for direct visualization of the posteriorly positioned valve. A limitation of this technique is that posterior valve tissue is translucent and can be pushed against the wall of the urethra by inflowing irrigation fluid, making it difficult to visualize. Cystoscopy may also demonstrate the bladder changes.\n\nCenters in Europe and Japan have also had excellent results with cystosonography, although it has not been approved for use in the United States yet.\n\nIf suspected antenatally, a consultation with a paediatric surgeon/ paediatric urologist maybe indicated to evaluate the risk and consider treatment options.\n\nTreatment is by endoscopic valve ablation. Fetal surgery is a high risk procedure reserved for cases with severe oligohydramnios, to try to limit the associated lung underdevelopment, or pulmonary hypoplasia, that is seen at birth in these patients. The risks of fetal surgery are significant and include limb entrapment, abdominal injury, and fetal or maternal death. Specific procedures for \"in utero\" intervention include infusions of amniotic fluid, serial bladder aspiration, and creating a connection between the amniotic sac and the fetal bladder, or vesicoamniotic shunt.\n\nThere are three specific endoscopic treatments of posterior urethral valves:\n\nThe standard treatment is primary (transurethral) ablation of the valves. Urinary diversion is used in selected cases, and its benefit is disputed.\n\nFollowing surgery, the follow-up in patients with posterior urethral valve syndrome is long term, and often requires a multidisciplinary effort between paediatric surgeons/ paediatric urologists, pulmonologists, neonatologists, radiologists and the family of the patient. Care must be taken to promote proper bladder compliance and renal function, as well as to monitor and treat the significant lung underdevelopment that can accompany the disorder. Definitive treatment may also be indicated for the vesico-ureteral reflux. \n\nThe female homolog to the male verumontanum from which the valves originate is the hymen.\n"}
{"id": "6247439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6247439", "title": "Preventive journalism", "text": "Preventive journalism\n\nPreventive journalism is a journalistic discipline that reports on urgent social problems at an early stage and on solutions proposed for these problems. It complements traditional investigative journalism and recognizes that journalism can alert government and society to problems before they become crises.\n\nMichael O'Neill, editor of the New York Daily News from 1975 to 1982 and former president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, wrote in 1985 that preventive journalism should \"search in advance for the hidden forces of change [and] try to identify the underlying causes of crises before, rather than after, they explode so that an alerted society might have time to protect itself from the ambushes of history.\"\n\nThe concept was also used in a 1996 Kofi Annan speech 1 where he stressed the need for such a kind of journalism without further detailing its characteristics.\n\nPeace Journalism follows similar tenets as preventive journalism, though preventive journalism extends its action range to social, economic, institutional, human rights, and environmental concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "31129066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31129066", "title": "Reparagen", "text": "Reparagen\n\nReparagen is a joint health product that scientists at Albany Medical College ran clinical trials on to test the theory that the combination of Uncaria guianensis and Lepidium meyenii can turn on Insulin-like growth factor \n"}
{"id": "15979893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15979893", "title": "Sadako Kurihara", "text": "Sadako Kurihara\n\nKurihara was born Doi Sadako in Hiroshima city as the second daughter of a farming family. She attended Kabe High School from the age of 17 and began her literary activities there, writing mainly tanka and western-style poetry.\n\nWhen the atomic bomb was exploded over Hiroshima she was in her home four kilometers north of the epicentre. After the war she took up writing professionally, along with her husband Kurihara Tadaichi, pursuing anti-war ideals. She became famous for her poems about her city, especially \"Bringing Forth New Life\", which was first published in March 1946.\n\nIn 1960, Kurihara wrote an article titled \"Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Concerning Literature of Hiroshima\", which was published in the Chugoku Shimbun, where she dealt with the responsibility of writers in the field of commemoration. She founded Chugoku Bunmei Renmei (Chugoku Culture Association) and published the first issue of \"Chugoku Bunka\". Since then she has been deeply involved in the antinuclear movement through her literary activities. In 1969 Kurihara founded a citizens' group, \"Gensuikin Hiroshima Haha no Kai\" (\"Hiroshima Mothers' Group against A-Bombs and H-Bombs\"), and published an anthology of poetry about Hiroshima, \"The River of Flame Running in Japan,\" which she distributed at the Sixth World Conference against A-Bombs and H-Bombs. The following year she started the journal, \"The Rivers in Hiroshima,\" that continued through five bimonthly issues. In 1962 Kurihara organized a publishing committee and privately published \"The Songs of Hiroshima\" with parallel versions in English and Japanese. She also edited the journal, \"Testimony of Hiroshima and Nagasaki\" (1982), wrote essays (for example, \"Embracing the Core Scene of Hiroshima,\" 1975), and attended numerous conferences, among them the NGO International Symposium in 1977 on \"The Reality of the A-Bomb\" and the 1982 International Literature Conference in Cologne, Germany. She was also involved in the 1983 Conference of Asian Writers in Hiroshima, protesting against nuclear development, poverty, and oppression.\n\nHer publications include: \"The Black Egg\" (\"Kuroi tamago,\" 1946), \"The River of Flame Running in Japan\" (1960), \"The Songs of Hiroshima\" (1962), \"Watashi wa Hiroshima wo shogen suru\" (\"I, A Hiroshima Witness\", 1967), \"Dokyumento Hiroshima 24 nen\" (\"Documents about Hiroshima Twenty-Four Years Later,\" 1970), \"Hiroshima to iu toki\" (\"When I Say Hiroshima,\" 1976), \"The Future Begins Here\" (1979), \"Kakujidai ni ikiru\" (\"Living in Nuclear Age,\" essays, 1982), \"Genbaku Kashu, Kushu\" an anthology of tanka and haiku about the A-Bomb (1991), \"Genbaku shishu,\" an anthology of poems about the A-Bomb (1991), \"Hiroshima in Questions,\" essays (1992), and many others.\n\nIn 1990, Kurihara received the third annual Kiyoshi Tanimoto Peace Prize. She died of old age in her own home at the age of 92 in 2005.\n\nIn 2008, an exhibition of her manuscripts was opened at the \nHiroshima Jogakuin University library .\n\nShe is survived by her daughter Mariko, born in 1935.\n\nThis poem is about a victim of the atomic bombing who suddenly goes into labour whilst taking refuge in an air-raid shelter. A midwife sharing the shelter goes to her aid, in spite of her own severe injuries, and so gives her own life to deliver the baby safely. It is based on real events witnessed by Kurihara in the shelter beneath the post office in Sendamachi, Hiroshima (in reality the midwife survived and later had a reunion with the child). The poem is considered a masterpiece and a representative work amongst atomic bomb poetry. It has been praised for its skillful contrast between the fading of one life and the birth of another, its expression of human strength in the face of tragedy, and its sense of hope for the future.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57933284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57933284", "title": "Sidra Medical and Research Center", "text": "Sidra Medical and Research Center\n\nSidra Medical and Research Center is a 400-bed hospital, medical education center and biomedical research center in Al Rayyan, Qatar, formed as an initiative of Qatar Foundation. It is affiliated with the Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar. Its initial inpatient hospital was formally opened in January 2018 with 400 beds. At its peak operational capacity, it will serve more than 275,000 patients per year.\n\nSidra is located in Education City, a city-scale initiative by Qatar Foundation. This portion of Education City is located Al Gharrafa, which in turn is a district of Al Rayyan City in the Municipality of Al Rayyan in Qatar.\n\nOutside the hospital is a series of 14 giant bronze sculptures by Damien Hirst called The Miraculous Journey, graphically charting the development of a baby in the uterus from conception to birth. It is owned by the Qatar Foundation.\n\nQatar Foundation, a quasi-government organization, allotted a massive $7.9 billion budget for the hospital's construction. It first selected the center's contractors in 2008 but in 2014 assigned new contractors to complete the project.\n\nBiomedical research first began at Sidra in 2015. Outpatient care facilities and services were inaugurated in May 2016; as of 2018 there are at least 50 outpatient facilities. Throughout 2017, more than 25,000 people were treated at the hospital's outpatient clinic.\n\nOn 14 January, 2018, Sidra launched its inpatient hospital with 400 beds, treating 10 patients on its initial day of opening. The hospital is expected to become fully commissioned sometime in 2018, after the construction of an emergency department and the addition of further services. Future plans will witness an expansion from 400 beds to 550 beds.\n\nRoughly 3,900 staff members were retained by Sidra at the time of inaugurating its inpatient hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "4085573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4085573", "title": "Smoke inhalation", "text": "Smoke inhalation\n\nSmoke inhalation is the primary cause of death for victims of fires. The inhalation or exposure to hot gaseous products of combustion can cause serious respiratory complications. \n\nSome 50–80% of fire deaths are the result of smoke inhalation injuries, including burns to the respiratory system. The hot smoke injures or kills by a combination of thermal damage, poisoning and pulmonary irritation and swelling, caused by carbon monoxide, cyanide and other combustion products.\n\nSymptoms range from coughing and vomiting to nausea, sleepiness and confusion. Burns to the nose, mouth and face, singed nostril hairs, difficulty breathing, and carbonaceous sputum (burned saliva) are signs of smoke inhalation injury. Approximately one third of patients admitted to burns units have pulmonary injury from hot smoke inhalation. The death rate of patients with both severe burns and smoke inhalation can be in excess of 50%.\n\nAny person with apparent signs of smoke inhalation should be immediately evaluated by a medical professional such as a paramedic or physician. Advanced medical care may be necessary to save the life of the patient, including mechanical ventilation, even if the person is conscious and alert. Pending advanced intervention, the patient should be brought into fresh air and given medical oxygen if available.\nTreatment consists of humidified oxygen, bronchodilators, suction, endotracheal tube and chest physiotherapy. There is no role for routine treatment of smoke inhalation with either antibiotics or steroids. Treatment depends on the severity of the smoke inhalation.\n\nInhalation therapy with nebulized heparin and acetylcysteine is usually started and continued for five to seven days during the hospital stay.\n\nCarbon monoxide (CO) is presumed to be a complication in smoke inhalation. The initial approach to presumed CO poisoning involves administering supplemental oxygen at a fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of 100 percent and then the use of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy is evaluated by physicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "27114323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27114323", "title": "Smoking in Turkey", "text": "Smoking in Turkey\n\nSmoking in Turkey is banned in government offices, workplaces, bars, restaurants, cafés, shopping malls, schools, hospitals, and all forms of public transport, including trains, taxis and ferries. Turkey's smoking ban includes provisions for violators, where anyone caught smoking in a designated smoke-free area faces a fine of 69 Turkish lira (~€15/$18/£13) and bar owners who fail to enforce the ban could be fined from 560 liras for a first offence up to 5,600 liras. The laws are enforced by the Tobacco and Alcohol Market Regulatory Authority.\n\nSmoking was first banned in 1997 in public buildings with more than four workers, as well as airplanes and public buses.\n\nOn 3 January 2008, Turkey passed a smoking ban for all indoor spaces including bars, cafés and restaurants. It also bans smoking in sports stadia, and the gardens of mosques and hospitals. The smoking ban came into force on 19 May 2008; however, bars, restaurants and cafes were exempted until mid-July 2009. On 19 July 2009, Turkey extended the indoor public smoking ban to include bars, restaurants, village coffeehouses and hookah bars.\n\nThe ban also forbids smoking advertising and the depiction of people smoking on television. Many foreign programmes or films that have scenes with characters smoking will usually have the cigarettes blurred out.\n\nProgress is still being made in educating the public about the law. Actual enforcement of the ban is still being implemented. The president of the Istanbul branch of the Environmental Engineers' Chamber (ÇMO), Eylem Tuncaelli, said that the smoking ban is a way for political leaders to avoid dealing with the country's real air pollution problems.\n\nSee also: Regie Company\n\nA Gallup poll in May 2007 revealed that over half of Turks aged 15 to 49 had smoked on the day before the survey. This was the highest rate among the 100 countries surveyed, along with Lebanon (41%), Greece (40%), and Cuba (40%) in descending order. The figure went down to 12% in females and 40% in males in 2015, according to World Bank.\n\nTurkey suffers from a severe and growing incidence of illicit tobacco consumption, spanning contraband and counterfeit tobacco products. In 2013 the estimated scale of illicit tobacco traffic in Turkey rose to 16.2 billion cigarettes per year. \n\nAccording to the World Health Organization this problem is exacerbated by weak governance and a lack of high-level commitment to investigate and prosecute these crimes, ineffective customs and border controls, as well as complicity from within the tobacco industry, notably from the producers of precursor materials used in the manufacture of cigarettes. While the overall consumption of tobacco in Turkey has declined over the last thirty years, the price of cigarettes rose 4.17% annually between 1970 and 2006, driven in large part by successive layers of VAT and excise taxation. \n\nThe impact on street price for legitimate (taxed) products creates a lucrative market for illicit cigarettes that do not pay taxes and thus realize that margin as additional profit. Turkish security officials estimate the annual loss in tax revenue from illicit tobacco at around $9.5 billion. Counterfeit cigarettes are primarily purchased by younger and lower-income smokers, further exacerbating the health hazards universally acknowledged to be even worse than those associated with commercial tobacco products.\n\nAccording to the European Parliament budget control committee, an estimated 40 percent of smuggled cigarettes sold in Turkey are produced in Bulgaria by the Bulgartabac company. These cigarettes are shipped first to Iraq, then smuggled into Turkey across the southeastern border. Methods of transit lean heavily on the exploitation of children in war-torn Syria.\n\nThe sales of outdoor heaters have increased because entertainment venues provide heated outdoor seating for smokers.\n\nIn July 2009 a customer shot and killed the owner of a restaurant in the southwestern town of Saruhanli because he was angry that his cigarettes had been confiscated.\n\nA member of the state media watchdog commented on the television blurring in 2010: \"Hülya Alphas said the blurring effect being employed so frequently works against the ban because it increases attention attracted to smoking by disrupting the concentration of viewers.\"\n"}
{"id": "2851992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2851992", "title": "Sodium selenite", "text": "Sodium selenite\n\nSodium selenite is the inorganic compound with the formula NaSeO. This salt is a colourless solid. The pentahydrate NaSeO(HO) is the most common water-soluble selenium compound.\n\nSodium selenite usually is prepared by the reaction of selenium dioxide with sodium hydroxide:\n\nThe hydrate converts to the anhydrous salt upon heating to 40 °C.\n\nAkin to the related salt sodium sulfite, NaSeO features a pyramidal dianion SeO. Oxidation of this anion gives sodium selenate, NaSeO.\n\nTogether with the related barium and zinc selenites, sodium selenite is mainly used in the manufacture of colorless glass. The pink color imparted by these selenites cancels out the green color imparted by iron impurities.\n\nBecause selenium is an essential element, sodium selenite is an ingredient in dietary supplements such as multi-vitamin/mineral products, but supplements that provide only selenium use L-selenomethionine or a selenium-enriched yeast.\n\nThe US Food and Drug Administration approved a selenium supplement to animal diets; the most common form is sodium selenite for pet foods. According to one article, \"not much was known about which selenium compounds to approve for use in animal feeds when the decisions were made back in the 1970s .. At the time the regulatory action was taken, only the inorganic selenium salts (sodium selenite and sodium selenate) were available at a cost permitting their use in animal feed.”\nSelenium is toxic in high concentrations. As sodium selenite, the chronic toxic dose for human beings was described as about 2.4 to 3 milligrams of selenium per day. In 2000, the U.S. Institute of Medicine set the adult Tolerable upper intake levels (UL) for selenium from all sources - food, drinking water and dietary supplements - at 400 μg/day. The European Food Safety Authority reviewed the same safety question and set its UL at 300 μg/day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30862455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862455", "title": "Sotos syndrome", "text": "Sotos syndrome\n\nSotos syndrome (cerebral gigantism or Sotos-Dodge syndrome) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by excessive physical growth during the first years of life. Excessive growth often starts in infancy and continues into the early teen years. The disorder may be accompanied by autism, mild intellectual disability, delayed motor, cognitive, and social development, hypotonia (low muscle tone), and speech impairments. Children with Sotos syndrome tend to be large at birth and are often taller, heavier, and have relatively large skulls (macrocephaly) than is normal for their age. Signs of the disorder, which vary among individuals, include a disproportionately large skull with a slightly protrusive forehead, large hands and feet, large mandible, hypertelorism (an abnormally increased distance between the eyes), and downslanting eyes. Clumsiness, an awkward gait, and unusual aggressiveness or irritability may also occur. Although most cases of Sotos syndrome occur sporadically, familial cases have also been reported. It is similar to Weaver syndrome.\n\nThis syndrome is characterized by overgrowth and advanced bone age. Affected individuals are dysmorphic, with macrodolichocephaly, downslanting palpebral fissures and a pointed chin. The facial appearance is most notable in early childhood. Affected infants and children tend to grow quickly; they are significantly taller than their siblings and peers, and have an unusually large skull and large head. Adult height is usually in the normal range, although Broc Brown has the condition and was named the world's tallest teenager. As of late 2016, he was 7'8\" and still growing.\n\nIndividuals with Sotos syndrome often have intellectual impairment, and most also have behavioral problems. Frequent behavioral impairments include attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), phobias, obsessive compulsive disorder, tantrums, and impulsive behaviors (impulse control disorder). Problems with speech and language are also common. Affected individuals may often have stuttering, difficulty with sound production, or a monotone voice. Additionally, weak muscle tone (hypotonia) may delay other aspects of early development, particularly motor skills such as sitting and crawling.\n\nOther signs include scoliosis, seizures, heart or kidney defects, hearing loss, and problems with vision. Some infants with this disorder experience jaundice and poor feeding. A small number of patients with Sotos syndrome have developed cancer, most often in childhood, but no single form of cancer has been associated with this condition. It remains uncertain whether Sotos syndrome increases the risk of specific types of cancer. If persons with this disorder have any increased cancer risk, their risk is only slightly greater than that of the general population.\n\nMutations in the NSD1 gene cause Sotos syndrome. The NSD1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in normal growth and development. The function of this protein is unknown, however. In the Japanese population, the most common genetic change leading to Sotos syndrome deletes genetic material from the region of chromosome 5 containing the NSD1 gene. In other populations, small mutations within the NSD1 gene occur more frequently. Genetic changes involving the NSD1 gene prevent one copy of the gene from producing any functional protein. It is unclear how a reduced amount of this protein during development leads to learning disabilities, overgrowth, and the other features of Sotos syndrome.\n\nAbout 95 percent of Sotos syndrome cases occur by spontaneous mutation. Most of these cases result from new mutations involving the NSD1 gene. A few families have been described with more than one affected family member. These inherited cases enabled researchers to determine that Sotos syndrome has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.\nTreatment is symptomatic. There is no standard course of treatment for Sotos syndrome.\n\nSotos syndrome is not a life-threatening disorder and patients may have a normal life expectancy. Developmental delays may improve in the school-age years; however, coordination problems may persist into adulthood, along with any learning disabilities and/or other physical or mental issues.\n\nIncidence is approximately 1 in 14,000 births.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28516891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28516891", "title": "The Fruit &amp; Veggie Prescription Program", "text": "The Fruit &amp; Veggie Prescription Program\n\nThe Fruit & Vegetable Prescription Program, also known as FVRx, is one of three of Wholesome Wave’s programs. The program aims to provide under-served communities with fresh fruits and vegetables by allowing consumers to exchange healthcare provider-generated “prescriptions” for local fresh fruit and vegetables at participating, local farmers' markets.\n\nIn 2010, Wholesome Wave implemented a feasibility study where a total of 246 participants were served in five New England cities through work with three healthcare partners and a statewide network of farmers markets during the 2010 farmers' market season. The CAVU foundation, Ceiling and Visibility Unlimited, sponsored the clinics that administer the Fruit & Veggie Prescription Program. The Massachusetts Department of Agriculture as well as Wholesome Wave each contributed $10,000 in seed money to the pilot program.\n\nWholesome Wave expanded the program during its 2011 pilot season to sites in Massachusetts, Maine, California and Rhode Island. In 2012, the program expanded to include twelve sites in seven states throughout the United States and the District of Columbia.\n\nIn July 2013, FVRx launched a four-month-long pilot that brought the program to two New York City Hospitals in Harlem and the Bronx. The pilot was run through partnership with the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation (HHC) and was funded through a $250,000 grant from the Laurie M. Tisch Illumination Fund as part of their Healthy Food and Community Change initiative. \"The Fruit and Vegetable Prescription Program — FVRx — turns local farmers markets into pharmacies,\" says the Wall Street Journal. \"Patients receive $2 of 'Health Bucks' coupons for each member of the family, and the coupons can be used to buy fresh produce once a week. Health Bucks are redeemable at any of the city's 142 farmers markets.\"\n\nIt is the goal of Wholesome Wave’s Fruit & Veggie Prescription Program to bring access to produce to at-risk consumers as 32 million Americans are currently living in food deserts with little access to grocery stores. Additionally, its mission is to fight childhood obesity in children of low-income families. Coupons amounting to a dollar a day for each member of a patients’ family are prescribed to promote healthy eating.\n\nFor a patient and their children to participate in the program, they are enrolled by their primary care provider who then introduces them to a nutritionist. The nutritionist will then meet with the participants each month to establish a plan that will reinforce healthy eating habits within the family. After their level of need is established based on consumption habits and Body Mass Index (BMI), the family's health care provider will then distribute prescriptions of a specified number of servings of fruits and vegetables per day. These prescriptions can then be redeemed at participating farmers' markets. These prescriptions can be redeemed weekly throughout participation in the 4-6 month long program and are refilled monthly by the health care provider who will set new goals for healthy eating.\n"}
{"id": "38080940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38080940", "title": "United States v. 11 1/4 Dozen Packages of Articles Labeled in Part Mrs. Moffat's Shoo-Fly Powders for Drunkenness", "text": "United States v. 11 1/4 Dozen Packages of Articles Labeled in Part Mrs. Moffat's Shoo-Fly Powders for Drunkenness\n\nUnited States v. 11 1/4 Dozen Packages of Articles Labeled in Part Mrs. Moffat's Shoo-Fly Powders for Drunkenness, 40 F. Supp. 208, was a 1941 US federal court case heard in the United States District Court for the Western District of New York, alleging the misbranding of a putative cure for alcohol intoxication. The action's unusual name results, in part, from the customs of cases with \"in rem\" jurisdiction, and refers to 135 packages of the containers used to hold the powder. This case was one of the first actions taken by the United States Food and Drug Administration.\n\nMrs. Moffat's Shoo-Fly Powders for Drunkenness, manufactured by M. F. Groves' Son & Co., was a product popular in the 19th century, alleged to be an effective antidote for drunkenness. The powder was tartar emetic, antimony potassium tartrate, which induces vomiting. By 1939, the product was considered a Mickey Finn, and criminal convictions had been obtained for some sellers for selling unlabelled poisons.\n\nIn 1938, the United States Congress passed the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), which gave authority to the Food and Drug Administration to regulate the manufacture and sale of food, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics involved in interstate commerce. Most of the provisions of that Act took effect in 1940.\n\nThe FDA seized the packages following their shipment from the manufacturer in Philadelphia to Buffalo, New York in November, 1940. On November 27, the United States Attorney for the Western District of New York filed suit in district court under the FFDCA.\n\nDistrict Judge John Knight presided at trial. During the trial, the manufacturer was allowed to intervene in the case, and, during the trial, argued that the product had been sold for over 60 years, and despite annual sales of over 50,000 packages, no complaints had allegedly been received. The manufacturer's statements were stricken as hearsay.\n\nA panel of five physicians testified to the toxicity and side-effects of tartar emetic, with the opinion summarizing their testimony in part:\n\nThe court ruled that the phrase \"for Drunkenness\" suggested that the powder was a cure or antidote for alcohol intoxication, with the judge concluding:\n\nAnother issue in the case was the question of whether the FFDCA, , required an intent to \"deceive and defraud\", Knight's ruling set a lasting precedent that such intent was not required to win condemnation under the Act.\n\nThe \"11 1/4 dozen packages\" were condemned and later destroyed.\n\nThe safety of the powders, argued in this case, has been further questioned, with at least one source wondering whether the rates of deaths attributed to liver failure and alcohol withdrawal during that era might have been due, instead, to the toxic effects of the product.\n\nNo antidote to inebriation was known to science until Ro15-4513 was developed (but not brought to market) in the 1980s.\n\nThe case name has been the target of humor, by sources such as \"Harper's Magazine\" in 2004 and the \"Virginia Law Review\" in both 1955 and 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2192894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2192894", "title": "Whitehall Study", "text": "Whitehall Study\n\nThe Whitehall Studies investigated social determinants of health, specifically the cardiovascular disease prevalence and mortality rates among British civil servants. The initial prospective cohort study, the Whitehall I Study, examined over 18,000 male civil servants between the ages of 20 and 64, and was conducted over a period of ten years, beginning in 1967. A second cohort study, the Whitehall II Study, was conducted from 1985 to 1988 and examined the health of 10,308 civil servants aged 35 to 55, of whom two thirds were men and one third women. A long-term follow-up of study subjects from the first two phases is ongoing.\n\nThe studies, named after the Whitehall area of London and led by Michael Marmot, found a strong association between grade levels of civil servant employment and mortality rates from a range of causes: the lower the grade, the higher the mortality rate. Men in the lowest grade (messengers, doorkeepers, etc.) had a mortality rate three times higher than that of men in the highest grade (administrators). This effect has since been observed in other studies and named the \"status syndrome\".\n\nThe first Whitehall Study compared mortality of people in the highly stratified environment of the British Civil Service. It showed that among British civil servants, mortality was higher among those in the lower grade when compared to the higher grade. The more senior one was in the employment hierarchy, the longer one might expect to live compared to people in lower employment grades.\n\nThe first of the Whitehall studies, or Whitehall I, found higher mortality rates due to all causes for men of lower employment grade. The study also revealed a higher mortality rate specifically due to coronary heart disease for men in the lower employment grade when compared to men in higher grades.\n\nThe initial Whitehall study found lower grades, and thus status, were clearly associated with higher prevalence of significant risk factors. These risk factors include obesity, smoking, reduced leisure time, lower levels of physical activity, higher prevalence of underlying illness, higher blood pressure, and shorter height. Controlling for these risk factors accounted for no more than forty percent of differences between civil service grades in cardiovascular disease mortality. After controlling for these risk factors, the lowest grade still had a relative risk of 2.1 for cardiovascular disease mortality compared to the highest grade.\n\nWhitehall I was carried out by the Department of Medical Statistics & Epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine. The Whitehall Study papers are available to view at the School's archives.\n\nTwenty years later, the Whitehall II study documented a similar gradient in morbidity in women as well as men. The name \"Whitehall II\" was derived from the previous Whitehall study. The Whitehall Studies revealed this social gradient for a range of different diseases: heart disease, some cancers, chronic lung disease, gastrointestinal disease, depression, suicide, sickness absence, back pain and general feelings of ill-health. A major challenge, and a reason for the importance of these studies, was to understand the causes of this social distribution of so many disorders.\n\nWhitehall II is a longitudinal, prospective cohort study of 10,308 women and men, all of whom were employed in the London offices of the British Civil Service at the time they were recruited to the study in 1985. The initial data collection included a clinical examination and self-report questionnaire. Since then, nine waves of data collection have been completed: phase 1 (1984-1985; age 35 to 55), phase 2 (1989-1990), phase 3 (1991-1993), phase 4 (1995-1996), phase 5 (1997-1999), phase 6 (2001), phase 7 (2002-2004), phase 8 (2006), phase 9 (2007-2009) and phase 10 (2011). The tenth wave began in January 2011, with wave 11 due to begin in January 2012. The study continues to release findings.\n\nThe study covers a wide age range, starting at 35 at recruitment and ending at 80 by phase 9:\nResearch continues to explore the pathways and mechanisms through which social position influences health. The research group aims to build a causal model leading from social position through psychosocial and behavioural pathways to pathophysiological changes, sub-clinical markers of disease, functional change, and clinical disease.\n\nThe Whitehall II study began as a study of working age people and investigated the relationships between work, stress, and health. Whitehall II found that the way work is organised, the work climate, social influences outside work, influences from early life, and health behaviours all contribute to the social gradient in health. As participants in this study continue through adult life, the research focuses on inequalities in health and functioning in an aging population. With an increasingly large population of older citizens in the UK, there is an urgent need to identify the causes of social inequalities and to study the long-term effects of previous circumstances on people’s ability to function and stay healthy during retirement. Researchers in the Whitehall II team are also considering the role of social inequalities in relation to dementia risk.\n\nThe Whitehall II team have a data sharing policy\n, allowing researchers from other institutions to use data from the Whitehall II cohort. There is a slightly different data sharing policy for projects that involve genetic information. This policy suggests that the team are engaging with the open access movement, a social movement which is gaining momentum in academia.\n\nThe social gradient in health is not a phenomenon confined to the British Civil Service. Throughout the developed world, wherever researchers have had data to investigate, they have observed the social gradient in health. In order to address inequalities in health, it is necessary both to understand how social organisation affects health, and to find ways to improve the conditions in which people work and live.\n\nMichael Marmot chaired the World Health Organization's Commission on Social Determinants of Health (CSDH), which was established in 2005 and launched its final report in August 2008. The Commission sought to engage with policy makers, global institutions, and civil society on the issues around health inequalities within and between countries, the social determinants of health, and act to address those issues. The CSDH acted as a catalyst for change, working with countries, academics, and civil society to bring health inequalities to the fore in the national policy dialogue. The overarching goals of the CSDH were to improve population health, to reduce health inequities, and to reduce disadvantages due to ill health.\n\nBy design, the Whitehall studies have been focused upon a single set of related occupations, where the people within each occupational grade tend to be socially similar, yet clear social distinctions between grades are inherent. The studies were designed in this manner as an attempt to avoid certain research drawbacks associated with generalized social class groupings—drawbacks that otherwise would result from the diversity of occupations within social classes—which in turn would tend to reduce the objectivity of any analysis.\n\nThe primary health risks under investigation in the Whitehall studies include cardiovascular function, smoking, car ownership, angina, leisure and hobbies, ECG measurements, and diabetes.\n\nHigh blood pressure at work was associated with greater \"job stress,\" including \"lack of skill utilization,\" \"tension,\" and \"lack of clarity\" in tasks assigned. The higher blood pressure among the lowest grade servants was found to be related to the highest job stress score, whereas blood pressure at home was not related to job stress level.\n\nAccording to Whitehall study researchers, \"a steep inverse association between social class, as assessed by grade of employment, and mortality from a wide range of diseases\" has been demonstrated. Summing up the moral of the Whitehall studies, the researchers concluded that \"more attention should be paid to the social environments, job design, and the consequences of income inequality.\"\n\nSubjects of Whitehall II in the lowest employment grades were more likely to have many of the established risk factors of coronary heart disease (CHD): a propensity to smoke, lower height-to-weight ratio, less leisure time, and higher blood pressure. However, even after normalizing for these factors, the lower employment grades were still at greater risk for a heart attack; another factor was at work.\n\nSome have pointed to cortisol, a hormone produced by the body as a response to stress. An effect of cortisol release is a reduction in the immune system’s efficacy through lymphocyte manipulation. One theory explaining the connection between immune-efficiency and CHD is that infectious pathogens, such as herpes or Chlamydia, are at least partially responsible for coronary diseases. Therefore, a body with a chronically suppressed immune system will be less able to prevent CHD.\n\nA study of the cortisol awakening response (the difference between cortisol levels upon awakening and thirty minutes later) further supports the significance of cortisol. Workers showed no significant difference in cortisol levels upon awakening regardless of socioeconomic position. However, the lower employment grades showed significantly higher levels thirty minutes later, particularly if it was a workday. Researchers concluded this was due to chronic stress and its anticipation.\n\nThis seems counter-intuitive: one usually thinks of those with the most decision-making responsibility as the ones with the most stressful lives. One theory is that the lower one is on the chain of command, the less control one has over his or her life. Not having to take orders on how to perform a task, or when to do it, results in lower heart rate, stress hormones, and blood pressure than being told how and when to perform it.\n\nThis theory, however, is not without its detractors. A Finnish study conducted a cohort study similar to Whitehall, but with greater analysis of the worker's stress. The study determined that decision autonomy was not a significant contributing factor to coronary heart disease, but that lack of predictability in the workplace was a significant factor. In the Finnish study, \"predictability\" was defined as high stability of work and lack of unexpected changes, and was found to correlate closely to employment grade.\n\nOthers argue that because there is a strong correlation between low employment grade and domestic stress, stress from a lack of control at work cannot be the whole story. In this line of reasoning, the size of one’s paycheck alone could significantly contribute to overall stress. Those with fewer resources have a harder time making ends meet, a situation that can be a tremendous source of chronic anxiety.\n\nAdding to the controversy is the disagreement over the cortisol explanation in the first place. The theory is based on a pathogenic contribution to coronary heart disease and the stressed body’s inability to fight it. Follow-up studies on the Whitehall II cohort failed to demonstrate a correlation between pathogen burden and socioeconomic status, whereas other studies in different parts of the world have.\n\nAn alternative to the cortisol explanation is that self-esteem is the major contributing factor and that the link between professional achievement and self-esteem accounts for the health gradient. The study supporting this view correlated low self-esteem in test subjects with greater reductions in heart rate variability and higher heart rates in general—both established coronary heart disease risk factors—while performing stressful tasks.\n\nCurrently there is no universally-accepted cause for the phenomenon brought to light by the Whitehall studies. Clearly, stress is associated with a higher risk of coronary heart disease, but so are many other non-traditional factors. Furthermore, “stress” seems to be too nonspecific. There are different kinds of stress in one’s day-to-day life and each kind could contribute differently. Vaananen, et al., are making great headway in this regard by researching which components of stress are responsible and which are not.\n\nRegardless of the exact reason why coronary heart disease is more prevalent in lower employment grades, the results of the Whitehall studies have significantly changed the way some doctors approach the evaluation of heart disease risk. By recognizing the effects of psychosocial stressors on the body, in addition to the traditional risk factors, physicians can offer a better assessment of a patient’s health.\n\nMichael Marmot of the Department of Epidemiology and Public Health at University College London directs the Whitehall II study. Marmot was the commissioner of the World Health Organization's Commission on Social Determinants of Health.\n\n\n"}
