{"id": "4757442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4757442", "title": "Alcalde-Presidente", "text": "Alcalde-Presidente\n\nAn Alcalde-Presidente is an Alcalde (Spanish for municipal Mayor) who also functions as President(e) of a higher administrative level.\n\nCases include:\n\n"}
{"id": "31592197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31592197", "title": "Anti-keylogger", "text": "Anti-keylogger\n\nAn anti-keylogger (or anti–keystroke logger) is a type of software specifically designed for the detection of keystroke logger software; often, such software will also incorporate the ability to delete or at least immobilize hidden keystroke logger software on a computer. In comparison to most anti-virus or anti-spyware software, the primary difference is that an anti-keylogger does not make a distinction between a \"legitimate\" keystroke-logging program and an \"illegitimate\" keystroke-logging program (such as malware); all keystroke-logging programs are flagged and optionally removed, whether they appear to be legitimate keystroke-logging software or not.\n\nKeyloggers are sometimes part of malware packages downloaded onto computers without the owners' knowledge. Detecting the presence of a keylogger on a computer can be difficult. So-called anti- keylogging programs have been developed to thwart keylogging systems, and these are often effective when used properly. \n\nAnti-keyloggers are used both by large organizations as well as individuals in order to scan for and remove (or in some cases simply immobilize) keystroke logging software on a computer. It is generally advised the software developers that anti-keylogging scans be run on a regular basis in order to reduce the amount of time during which a keylogger may record keystrokes. For example, if a system is scanned once every three days, there is a maximum of only three days during which a keylogger could be hidden on the system and recording keystrokes.\n\nPublic computers are extremely susceptible to the installation of keystroke logging software and hardware, and there are documented instances of this occurring. Public computers are particularly susceptible to keyloggers because any number of people can gain access to the machine and install both a hardware keylogger and a software keylogger, either or both of which can be secretly installed in a matter of minutes. Anti-keyloggers are often used on a daily basis to ensure that public computers are not infected with keyloggers, and are safe for public use.\n\nKeyloggers have been prevalent in the online gaming industry, being used to secretly record a gamer's access credentials, user name and password, when logging into an account, this information is sent back to the hacker. The hacker can sign on later to the account and change the password to the account, thus stealing it.\n\nWorld of Warcraft has been of particular importance to game hackers and has been the target of numerous keylogging viruses. Anti-keyloggers are used by many World of Warcraft and other gaming community members in order to try to keep their gaming accounts secure.\n\nFinancial institutions have become the target of keyloggers, particularly those institutions which do not use advanced security features such as PIN pads or screen keyboards. Anti-keyloggers are used to run regular scans of any computer on which banking or client information is accessed, protecting passwords, banking information, and credit card numbers from identity thieves.\n\nThe most common use of an anti-keylogger is by individuals wishing to protect their privacy while using their computer; uses range from protecting financial information used in online banking, any passwords, personal communication, and virtually any other information which may be typed into a computer. Keyloggers are often installed by people known by the computer's owner, and many times have been installed by an ex-partner hoping to spy on their ex-partner's activities, particularly chat.\n\nThis type of software has a signature base, that is strategic information that helps to uniquely identify a keylogger, and the list contains as many known keyloggers as possible. Some vendors make some effort or availability of an up-to-date listing for download by customers. Each time a 'System Scan' is run, this software compares the contents of the hard disk drive, item by item, against the list, looking for any matches.\n\nThis type of software is a rather widespread one, but it has its own drawbacks The biggest drawback of signature-based anti-keyloggers is that one can only be protected from keyloggers found on the signature-base list, thus staying vulnerable to unknown or unrecognized keyloggers. A criminal can download one of many famous keyloggers, change it just enough, and the anti-keylogger won't recognize it.\n\nThis software doesn't use signature bases, it uses a checklist of known features, attributes, and methods that keyloggers are known use.\n\nIt analyzes the methods of work of all the modules in a PC, thus blocking the activity of any module that is similar to the work of keyloggers. Though this method gives better keylogging protection than signature-based anti-keyloggers, it has its own drawbacks. One of them is that this type of software blocks non-keyloggers also. Several 'non-harmful' software modules, either part of the operating system or part of legitimate apps, use processes which keyloggers also use, which can trigger a false positive. Usually all the non signature-based keyloggers have the option to allow the user to unblock selected modules, but this can cause difficulties for inexperienced users who are unable to discern good modules from bad modules when manually choosing to block or unblock.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062102", "title": "Argentine debt restructuring", "text": "Argentine debt restructuring\n\nThe Argentine debt restructuring is a process of debt restructuring by Argentina that began on January 14, 2005, and allowed it to resume payment on 76% of the US$82 billion in sovereign bonds that defaulted in 2001 at the depth of the worst economic crisis in the nation's history. A second debt restructuring in 2010 brought the percentage of bonds under some form of repayment to 93%, though ongoing disputes with holdouts remained. Bondholders who participated in the restructuring settled for repayments of around 30% of face value and deferred payment terms, and began to be paid punctually; the value of their nearly worthless bonds also began to rise. The remaining 7% of bondholders later won the right to be repaid in full.\n\nAs part of the restructuring process, Argentina drafted agreements in which repayments would be handled through a New York corporation and governed by United States law. The holdout bondholders found themselves unable to seize Argentine sovereign assets in settlement, but realized that Argentina had omitted to provide for holdout situations and had instead deemed all bonds repayable on \"pari passu\" (equal) terms that prevented preferential treatment among bondholders. The holdout bondholders therefore sought, and won, an injunction in 2012 that prohibited Argentina from repaying the 93% of bonds that had been renegotiated, unless they simultaneously paid the 7% holdouts their full amount due as well. Together with the agreement's rights upon future offers (\"RUFO\") clause, this created a deadlock in which the 93% of renegotiated bondholders could not be paid without paying the 7% holdouts, but any payment to the holdouts would potentially (according to Argentina) trigger the 93% being due repayment at full value too; a sum of around $100 billion that Argentina could not afford. The courts ruled that as Argentina had itself drafted the agreement, and chosen the terms it wished to propose, it could not now claim the terms were unreasonable or unfair, and that this could not be worked around by asserting sovereign status since the injunction did not affect sovereign assets, but simply ruled that Argentina must not give preferential treatment of any group of bondholders over any other group when making repayments.\n\nSubsequently, though Argentina wanted to repay some creditors, the judgment prevented Argentina from doing so, because being forced to repay all creditors, including the holdouts, would have totaled around $100 billion. The country was therefore categorized as being in selective default by Standard & Poor's and in restricted default by Fitch. The ruling affected New York law Argentine bonds; Argentine bonds issued under Buenos Aires and European law were not affected.\n\nProposed solutions include seeking waivers of the RUFO clause from bondholders, or waiting for the RUFO clause to expire at the end of 2014. The dilemma raised concerns internationally about the ability of a small minority to forestall an otherwise-agreed debt restructuring of an insolvent country, and the ruling that led to it was widely criticized both within the United States and internationally. Although the media widely reported that the default ended with payments to the principal bondholders in early 2016, during the presidency of Mauricio Macri, several hundred million dollars in outstanding defaulted bonds remained unpaid, which resulted in continuation of litigation. In November 2016 Argentina announced that it had settled with additional creditors for US$475 million.\n\nAround 1998 to 2002, Argentina's economy went into severe recession. On December 26, 2001, Argentina defaulted on a total of US$93 billion of its external debt; of around $81.8 billion in bonds that were defaulted, 51% were issued during this three-year period. Foreign investment fled the country, and capital flow toward Argentina ceased almost completely from 2001 to 2003 (though it later recovered). The currency exchange rate (formerly a fixed 1-to-1 parity between the Argentine peso and the U.S. dollar) was floated, and the peso devalued quickly to nearly 4-to-1, producing a sudden rise in inflation to over 40% and a fall in real GDP of 11% in 2002.\n\nLarge-scale debt restructuring was needed urgently, since the high-interest bonds had become unpayable. The Argentine government met severe challenges trying to refinance its debt, however. Creditors (many of them private citizens in Spain, Italy, Germany, Japan, the United States, and other countries, who had invested their savings and retirement pensions in debt bonds) denounced the default; this included bondholders from Argentina itself, estimated to compose about a fourth of affected bondholders.\n\nEconomic recovery eventually allowed Argentina to offer large-scale debt swaps in 2005 and 2010; the first brought 76% of bonds out of default and the second, 91.3%. The terms of the debt exchanges were not accepted by all private bondholders; the holders of around 7% of the defaulted bonds - known as \"holdouts\" - continued to seek full repayment. The IMF initially lobbied for the holdouts until Argentina's lump-sum repayment to the IMF in January 2006. Individual creditors worldwide, who represented about one third of this group, mobilized to seek repayment following the default. Among the most prominent were Task Force Argentina, an Italian retail bondholder association; and Mark Botsford, a private U.S. retail bondholder; and Kenneth Dart, who unsuccessfully sued in 2003 to be paid $724 million for bonds purchased in 2001 for $120 million. Dart renounced his U.S. citizenship in 1994 for tax avoidance purposes, and his interests in Argentina became the focus of tax evasion charges in 2013. Italian nationals had become the largest group of foreign retail investors in Argentine bonds when during the 1990s, banks in their country purchased $14 billion in bonds and then resold them to nearly half a million investors; the vast majority rejected the first swap but accepted the second.\n\nUpon default, Argentina's bondholders sued to be repaid 100% of their bonds' face value. Among the bondholders were vulture funds, who had speculatively acquired US$1.3 billion of the bonds' total value on the secondary market for cents on the dollar after the 2001 default. Vulture funds also owned a large quantity of credit default swaps (CDS) against Argentine bonds. This created a further incentive to not only trigger a default against Argentina; but also to undermine the value of the bonds themselves, as the CDS would pay out at a higher rate if the defaulted bonds decline to extremely low values.\n\nThe vulture funds held out for payment in full via litigation (hence their common description as \"holdout\" bondholders, or \"holdouts\"). Their legal tactics included seeking injunctions to attach future payments to other bondholders by way of forcing Argentina to settle. A similar strategy had been successfully pursued previously by vulture funds against Peru and a number of African nations, as well as against corporations in the United States itself, such as Delphi Automotive, which was forced to pay Paul Singer's Elliott Management Corporation a return of over 3,000% on corporate bonds defaulted during the 2008 recession. NML Capital Limited, the Cayman Islands-based principal vulture funds in this dispute, is also owned by Singer. NML paid $49 million in the secondary market for bonds worth $832 million by 2014. Its lobbying group, American Task Force Argentina, is the most prominent and best financed opponent of Argentine bond restructuring efforts, spending over $7 million lobbying U.S. Congressmen and becoming the top campaign contributor to a number of these; the most prominent, former Western Hemisphere Subcommittee Chair Connie Mack IV (R-FL), became the main sponsor of a bill in 2012 designed to force Argentina to pay NML nearly $2 billion before losing his Senate bid that year. Their lobbying campaign also extends to Argentina, where NML Capital finances an NGO led by Laura Alonso, a Congresswoman affiliated with the right-wing PRO party.\n\nIn August 2013, the Government of Argentina lost a U.S. appeals court case and was told it had to repay the full face value amount to these holdouts. Courts in Europe have backed Argentina on the basis of the equal terms clause, however. A third debt restructuring offer to remaining holdouts on similar terms to the 2010 swap was announced on August 27, 2013. However, meeting vulture funds' full face-value demands is problematic for Argentina, because although bonds held by vulture funds are a small share of the total (1.6%), such a settlement would lead to lawsuits from other bondholders demanding to be paid on similar terms under the agreement's \"rights upon future offers\" (RUFO) clause, effectively unwinding the settlement by allowing all bondholders payment in full, and creating an unaffordable liability of up to $120 billion more than at present.\n\nAs a result, Argentina has still not been able to raise finance on the international debt markets for fear that any money raised would be impounded by holdout lawsuits; their country risk borrowing cost premiums remain over 10%, much higher than comparable countries. Consequently, Argentina has been paying debt from central bank reserves, has banned most retail purchases of dollars, limited imports, and ordered companies to repatriate money held abroad. Nevertheless, between 2003 and 2012 Argentina met debt service payments totaling $173.7 billion, of which 81.5 billion was collected by bondholders, 51.2 billion by multilateral lenders such as the IMF and World Bank, and 41 billion by Argentine government agencies. Public external debt denominated in foreign currencies (mainly in dollars and euros) accordingly fell from 150% of GDP in 2002 to 8.3% in 2013.\n\nIn 2001, Argentina defaulted on its foreign debt.\nIn January 2005, the Argentine government offered the first debt restructuring to affected bondholders; nearly 76% of the defaulted bonds (US$62.5 billion) were thus exchanged and brought out of default. The exchange offered longer term par, quasi-par, and discount bonds - the latter with a much lower nominal value (25–35% of the original). The majority of the Argentine bond market thereafter became based on GDP-linked bonds, and investors, both foreign and domestic, netted record yields amid renewed growth. One of the largest single investors in Argentine bonds following these developments was Venezuela, which bought a total of more than $5 billion in restructured Argentine bonds from 2005 to 2007. Between 2001-2006, Venezuela was the largest single buyer of Argentina's debt.\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, Banco Occidental de Descuento and Fondo Común, owned by Venezuelan bankers Victor Vargas Irausquin and Victor Gill Ramirez respectively, bought most of Argentina's outstanding bonds and resold them on to the market. The banks bought $100 million worth of Argentine bonds and resold the bonds for a profit of approximately $17 million. People who criticize Vargas have said that he made a $1 billion \"backroom deal\" with swaps of Argentine bonds as a sign of his friendship with Chavez. The \"Financial Times\" interviewed financial analysts in the United States who said that the banks profited from the resale of the bonds; the Venezuelan government did not profit.\n\nBondholders who had accepted the 2005 swap (three out of four did so) saw the value of their bonds rise 90% by 2012, and these continued to rise strongly during 2013.\n\nDuring the restructuring process, the International Monetary Fund was considered a \"privileged creditor\", that is, all debt was recognized and paid in full. During 2005 Argentina shifted from a policy of constant negotiation and refinancing with the IMF to payment in full, taking advantage of a large and growing fiscal surplus due to rising commodity prices and economic output, with the acknowledged intention of gaining financial independence from the IMF.\n\nPresident Néstor Kirchner on December 15, 2005, announced his intention of liquidating all the remaining debt to the IMF, in a single payment of US$9.81 billion, initially planned to take place before the end of the year (a similar move had been announced by Brazil two days before, and it is understood that the two measures were to be coordinated).\n\nArgentina under the Kirchner administration had already reduced its debt to the IMF from $15.5 billion in 2003 to $10.5 billion at the time of this announcement. The last and largest remaining share of the IMF debt, about $9.5 billion, was paid on January 3, 2006. The debt was in fact denominated in special drawing rights (SDR; a unit employed by the IMF and calculated over a basket of currencies). The Argentine Central Bank called on the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland, where a part of its currency reserves were deposited, to act as its agent. The BIS bought 3.78 billion SDR (equivalent to about $5.4 billion) from 16 central banks and ordered their transfer to the IMF. The rest (2.874 billion SDR or $4.1 billion) was transferred from Argentina's account in the IMF, deposited in the U.S. Federal Reserve.\n\nThe payment served to cancel the debt installments that were to be paid in 2006 ($5.1 billion), 2007 ($4.6 billion), and 2008 ($432 million). This disbursement represented 8.8% of the total Argentine public debt and decreased the Central Bank's reserves by one third (from $28 billion to $18.6 billion). According to the official announcement, it also saved about a billion dollars in interest, though the actual savings amounted to $842 million (since the reserves that were in the BIS were until then receiving interest payments). One of the largest single investors in Argentine bonds following these Venezuela bought a total of more than $5 billion in restructured Argentine bonds from 2005 to 2007.\n\nThe initial announcement was made in a surprise press conference. President Kirchner said that, with this payment, \"we bury an ignominious past of eternal, infinite indebtment.\" Many of those present later called the decision \"historic\". The head of the IMF, Rodrigo Rato, saluted it, though remarking that Argentina \"faces important challenges ahead\". United States Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snow said that this move \"shows good faith\" on the part of the Argentine government. Nobel Economics Prize laureate Joseph Stiglitz repeatedly criticized the IMF and supported the Argentine strategies on the debt restructuring, but opposed the disindebtment policy, suggesting instead that the IMF should receive the same treatment as the other creditors. Local criticism of the IMF debt paydown centered around the cost, which made funds unavailable for productive purposes within Argentina or to come to terms with outstanding creditors; and second, that the government traded cheap IMF credits for new emissions of public debt at much higher interest rates. Following the initial surprise and mixed reactions local markets rallied, with the MERVAL index growing more in January 2006 than in all of 2005.\n\nThe Ministry of Economy reported in June 2005 that the total official Argentine public debt was down by $63.5 billion from the first semester to $126.5 billion as a result of the restructuring process; of this, 46% was denominated in dollars, 36% in pesos, and 11% in euros and other currencies. Due to the full payment of the IMF debt and several other adjustments, as of January 2006 the total figure decreased further to $124.3 billion; bonds not exchanged in 2005 accounted for $23.4 billion, of which 12.7 billion were already overdue. The Central Bank's reserves surpassed their pre-payment levels on September 27, 2006.\n\nA similar agreement was reached eight years later with the Paris Club of creditor nations (the last remaining Argentine debt still in default besides bonds held by holdouts) on debt repayment totaling $9 billion including penalties and interest.\n\nOn April 15, 2010, the debt exchange was re-opened to bondholders who rejected the 2005 swap; 67% of these latter accepted the swap, leaving 7% as holdouts. Holdouts continued to put pressure on the government by attempting to seize Argentine assets abroad, and by suing to attach future Argentine payments on restructured debt to receive better treatment than cooperating creditors.\n\nA total of approximately US$12.86 billion of eligible debt was tendered into the exchange launched in April 2010; this represented 69.5% of outstanding bonds still held by holdouts. A total of 152 types of bonds in seven different currencies under eight distinct jurisdictions were issued during the two debt exchanges. The 2010 re-opening thus brought the total amount of debt restructured to 92.6% (the original 2005 debt exchange restructured 76.2% of Argentine government debt in default since 2001). The final settlement of the 2010 debt exchange took place on August 11, for bondholders that didn't participate in the early tranche that closed on May 14 and settled on May 17.\n\nAlthough around 93% of bondholders accepted reduced repayments (typically being repaid only 30% of the face value of bonds), a minority owning around 7% of the debt (US$4 billion), mostly hedge funds and vulture funds, continued to argue in court that they were due repayment in full, and held out for full repayment, eventually winning their case.\n\nNML Capital Limited, a Cayman Islands-based offshore unit of Paul Singer's Elliott Management Corporation, purchased many holdings in 2008, paying an estimated $49 million for one series of bonds whose face value was over $220 million; with the subsequent boom in Argentine bond values, this face value grew to $832 million by 2014. They in turn established the American Task Force Argentina lobbying group against Argentine bond restructuring efforts, and sued to enjoin Argentina's ongoing payments to the bondholders who had participated in the earlier restructurings.\n\nDuring the 2000s NML Capital's lawyers initially obtained several large judgments against Argentina, all of which were affirmed on appeal. These rulings found that the holdout bondholders in the case were entitled to be repaid the full face value of the bonds they held, rather than alternative amounts such as the reduced settlements negotiated in 2005 and 2010, or the amounts they had purchased the bonds for.\n\nAfter defaulting, Argentina continued to pay its renegotiated bondholders, but not the holdout bondholders who had rejected settlement. As Argentina refused to pay the holdout creditors at full value, the holdouts initially resorted to lawsuits to seize Argentine government assets abroad – notably Central Bank deposits in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the presidential airplane, and the . The \"Libertad\", an Argentine Navy training frigate, was arrested (though not seized) at the behest of NML Capital for ten weeks in late 2012 in the port of Tema, Ghana, until the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea ruled unanimously that it be released. Eventually this approach proved fruitless. The holdout bondholders soon discovered that due to a number of sovereign immunity laws, it was impossible to actually enforce their judgments by seizing the handful of Argentine assets still within the reach of U.S. jurisdiction.\n\nIn a lawsuit filed by NML, the lower UK courts found that Argentina had state immunity. Before 2011, Elliott successfully appealed the case to the UK Supreme Court, which ruled that Elliott had the right to attempt to seize Argentine property in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe basis of the holdout bondholders' next approach arose from oversights on Argentina's part, due to both its economic history and partly from the legal wording chosen by the Argentina's government.\n\nBecause Argentina had been historically so unstable, it would have been difficult for it to solicit investors to buy bonds in Buenos Aires under Argentine jurisdiction, as few external investors trusted Argentina courts to enforce bonds against their own government. This consideration led Argentina to transfer the issue of bonds to New York, under United States law, on April 20, 1976, as were most subsequent bond issues. The bonds were therefore issued under a special kind of bond contract, a \"Fiscal Agency Agreement\" that was drafted by Argentina's U.S. attorneys under the law of the state of New York. The FAA stipulated that the repayments on the bonds were to be made by Argentina through a trustee, The Bank of New York Mellon, which meant that the U.S. courts did have jurisdiction over that party to issue injunctive relief.\n\nIn the Fiscal Agency Agreement, Argentina's attorneys included a boilerplate \"pari passu\" clause, but neglected to include a collective action clause. \"Pari passu\" is a term generally used to signify equal priority or treatment, and a collective action clause would have obligated any holdouts to accept the generally offered terms if enough other bondholders agreed to accept them. As a result, the holdouts realized that while Argentina could not force the holdouts to accept the terms in the 2005 or 2010 restructurings, NML could use the \"pari passu\" clause to force Argentina to choose between paying all its bondholders (including NML) or none of them.\n\nNML Capital therefore sued Argentina in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (i.e., a federal trial court) by invoking that court's diversity jurisdiction as well as forum selection and choice of law clauses in the Fiscal Agency Agreement itself.\n\nFederal district judge Thomas P. Griesa was assigned to hear the case. The crucial expression \"pari passu\" had not previously been interpreted in any published decision by the courts of the state of New York, but there is no way in U.S. federal civil procedure for a federal district court to \"directly\" transfer a case to state court if it had not originally started there. (By way of contrast, if NML Capital had sued Argentina in a New York state court, Argentina would have had the option to \"remove\" the case to federal court.) Instead, the district court was required by \"Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins\" (1938) to make an \"Erie guess\" as to how a New York state trial court would interpret that clause by applying general principles of contract law in the state of New York as articulated in the published decisions of the New York Court of Appeals and the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division. The district court ruled in NML Capital's favor and issued broad permanent injunctions against Argentina and the bond trustee. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the federal appellate court with jurisdiction over New York) in turn affirmed the district court's interpretation, but did not exercise its optional right to certify that specific issue to the New York Court of Appeals for a ruling on New York state law.\n\nAccording to the Second Circuit's opinion issued on October 26, 2012 (signed by senior circuit judge Barrington Daniels Parker, Jr.), Paragraph 1(c) of the 1994 version of Argentina's Fiscal Agency Agreement was as follows:\n\nThe Second Circuit interpreted this clause under New York law and concluded \"that in pairing the two sentences of its Pari Passu Clause, the FAA manifested an intention to protect bondholders from more than just formal subordination ... the two sentences ... protect against different forms of discrimination: the issuance of other superior debt (first sentence) and the giving of priority to other payment obligations (second sentence).\" Argentina had argued the entire clause was intended to protect only against the \"first\" type of discrimination; the Second Circuit held that Argentina's approach was invalid because it ignored the critical differences in wording between the two sentences, treated the second sentence as redundant, and in turn violated New York's rule that \"a contract should not be interpreted in such a way as would leave one of its provisions substantially without force or effect.\" Thus, the Second Circuit affirmed the trial court's decision that Argentina could either pay \"all\" its bondholders or \"none\", but could not pay only those who cooperated with the 2005 and 2010 restructurings and ignore the rest.\n\nThus in 2012 (affirmed on appeal 2013), the courts ruled that paying the settled bondholders but not the holdouts was a breach of Argentina's agreement and discriminated against the holdout bondholders.\n\nFurthermore, the Second Circuit held that the trial court's injunctions did not violate Argentina's sovereign immunity because they merely enforced the prohibition against both formal and informal \"subordination\" of any part of the debt to any other debt: \"They do not attach, arrest, or execute upon any property ... the Injunctions do not require Argentina to pay any bondholder any amount of money; nor do they limit the other uses to which Argentina may put its fiscal reserves. In other words, the Injunctions do not transfer any dominion or control over sovereign property to the court.\"\n\nAs of February 2013, after further decisions by the district court, the case came again before the Second Circuit. The decision of the appeals court was adverse and a motion for rehearing by a full panel was denied on March 26.\n\nOn August 23, 2013, the Second Circuit (in another opinion also signed by Judge Parker) affirmed the lower court's latest ruling clarifying the scope of the permanent injunctions. The court implied at the start of its opinion that since Argentina had taken a calculated risk to enjoy the benefit of New York law (i.e., a lower interest rate), it now had to bear the burden of New York law as well: \"In order to enhance the marketability of the bonds, Argentina made a series of promises to the purchasers.\" Among those promises in the 1994 Fiscal Agency Agreement were the \"pari passu\" clause, the aforementioned forum selection and choice-of-law clauses expressly referencing New York, as well as a promise of the free transferability of the bonds to any transferee, regardless of whether that transferee was a \"university endowment, a so-called 'vulture fund,' or a widow or an orphan.\" In other words, as the drafter of the Fiscal Agency Agreement, Argentina could have easily avoided the situation it found itself in by writing a different \"pari passu\" clause, omitting the transferability clause, including anti-assignment clauses (e.g., a clause providing that assignees could only recover the amount actually paid rather than face value of the debt), or writing the contract under the law of a different jurisdiction altogether, with the understanding that rational investors would have demanded higher interest rates in exchange for any of these things.\n\nAfter refuting all of Argentina's arguments on the merits, the Second Circuit concluded: \"We do not believe the outcome of this case threatens to steer bond issuers away from the New York marketplace ... We believe that the interest — one widely shared in the financial community — in maintaining New York's status as one of the foremost commercial centers is advanced by requiring debtors, including foreign debtors, to pay their debts.\"\n\nNotably, when it came to looking at big-picture public policy issues, both Second Circuit opinions examined them only through the lens of federal procedural law (i.e., whether the injunctions were an inequitable remedy) as opposed to the substantive rules of New York state contractual law. Although New York recognizes several defenses to the enforceability of a contract like unconscionability, those defenses are usually available only to the weaker party at the time of contract formation, the party who did \"not\" write the contract (i.e., the bondholders), which explains why they were not discussed in the Second Circuit's opinions. If those defenses are unavailable (for example, because the party resisting enforcement was the one who wrote the contract), New York courts will mechanically enforce the plain language of a contract regardless of its harshness because \"a court is not free to alter the contract to reflect its personal notions of fairness and equity.\"\n\nThe United States Supreme Court repeatedly denied Argentina's petitions for certiorari, on October 7, 2013 and June 16, 2014, meaning that it was effectively refusing to hear Argentina's appeals from the Second Circuit's decisions. The petition denied on June 16 had presented two issues: (1) sovereign immunity and (2) the Second Circuit's decision to simply affirm the trial court's \"Erie\" guess as opposed to exercising the option to certify that issue to the New York Court of Appeals.\n\nOn the same day it denied to review the injunction, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed Judge Griesa's worldwide discovery order in \"Republic of Argentina v. NML Capital, Ltd.\"\n\nCitigroup, which has operations in both New York and in Argentina, was caught in the middle, being required to conform to both New York and Argentine law, an international conflict of law. The trial court has granted temporary relief to the bank, allow payment of a few of the interest payments due to holdout bondholders, but the obligation to repay all holdouts as the cost of continuing to service Argentine bonds had resulted in a decision to terminate its Argentine debt servicing operation absent legal relief.\n\nThe \"Pari passu\" ruling had a grave impact on Argentina's route out of economic difficulty. The issue perceived by Argentina was that the agreement also included a \"rights upon future offers\" (\"RUFO\") clause. The effect of such a clause was that, if a later settlement paid more, or on better terms, all existing settlements would be repaid on the improved terms. This was intended to reassure bondholders that it was safe to settle early, and reduce the incentive to hold out for a better later offer.\n\nAs a result of the earlier rulings for the holdout bondholders, Argentina now faced a situation whereby:\n\nThe U.S. judicial \"pari passu\" ruling therefore forced Argentina to miss the scheduled bond payments being managed from New York, as from July 30, 2014 (bonds issued under Argentine law (paid through Citibank Argentina) and bonds issued under European Law (paid through Euroclear and Clearstream), were not affected.). This in turn caused Argentina to be declared in selective default by Standard & Poor's and in restricted default by Fitch, meaning that some Argentine bondholders were receiving payment while others now weren't.\n\nPresident Cristina Fernández de Kirchner stated after the latter denial of certiorari that her country had an obligation to pay its creditors, but not to become the victims of extortion by speculators; even if Argentina can't use the U.S. financial system to do so, she said, teams of experts are working on ways to avoid such a default and keep Argentina's promises. The expiration of Rights Upon Future Offers (RUFO) in December 2014 will preclude other bondholders from suing for better terms should the Argentine Government and the vulture funds settle, making such a settlement all the more likely after that date should the dispute continue.\n\nIn August 2014, Argentina filed a case at the International Court of Justice, alleging that through its court system's decision, the United States had \"violat[ed] its sovereign immunity\" and breached \"[the] obligation not to use or encourage measures of economic and political action to force the sovereign will of another State\", and was responsible for permitting judicial malpractice and gross incompetence in allowing two small hedge funds to trigger a needless default against most other bondholders. Information was likewise requested from the Securities and Exchange Commission concerning the possibility of securities fraud involving the bonds by plaintiffs in the case. Observers note that the United States must consent to the case being heard, which has only happened 22 times in the ICJ's 68 years of existence, and a Latin American and international law specialist at Oxford Analytica observed to media that, \"From the point of view of the U.S. government, the New York court system has dealt with a contractual dispute in which the executive [branch] cannot intervene. It's a dispute governed by a contract, not by a treaty or international law\".\n\nThe decision was likewise rejected by the Organization of American States, the G-77 (133 nations), and the Council on Foreign Relations, as well as by bondholders whose payments were stopped by the Griesa court.\n\nLarge banks, investors, and the U.S. Treasury Department objected to the federal courts' decisions and expressed concern over losses that could be incurred by bondholders and others, as well over disruption in the bond markets. Vladimir Werning, executive director for Latin American research at JPMorgan Chase, observed that vulture funds \"are trying to block the payments system\" in the United States itself, something \"unprecedented in the New York jurisdiction.\" Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon, which handles Argentina's international bond payments, said the ruling \"will create unrest in the credit markets and result in cascades of litigation, which is precisely the opposite effect that an injunction should have.\" The American Bankers Association agreed, noting that \"permitting injunctions that preclude pre-existing obligations whenever expedient to enforce a judgment against the debtor will have significantly adverse consequences for the financial system.\"\n\nA consortium of Argentine banks, led by Argentine Banking Association (Adeba) President Jorge Brito, meanwhile presented their own settlement offer on July 30, by which all vulture fund bond holdings in dispute would be purchased in installments for a total of US$1.4 billion, but the offer was refused; Citibank, JP Morgan Chase, and HSBC joined efforts to repurchase vulture fund holdings on August 1. The ISDA, of which Singer's Elliott hedge fund is one of 15 bank members, granted Singer and fellow vulture fund plaintiff Aurelius Capital CDS insurance payout of $1 billion on August 1.\n\nThe dispute limited Argentina's access to foreign credit markets as well; in October 2012 Argentina's theoretical borrowing costs were 10.7%, double the average for developing countries. Although Argentina has not raised money on the money markets since the default, the state-owned oil company YPF has already placed debt in the financial markets to finance its investment program in years to come.\n\nThe possibility that holdout creditors can attach future payments on restructured debt and receive better treatment than cooperating creditors distorts incentives, can derail efforts for a cooperative restructuring, and may ultimately lead to the United States no longer being viewed as a safe place to issue sovereign debt.\n\nThe Second Circuit has acknowledged that New York Judiciary Law Section 489 (descended from an 1813 statute) appears to facially prohibit \"essentially all 'secondary' transactions in debt instruments where the purchaser had an intent to enforce the debt obligation through litigation,\" but then ruled in a 1999 decision involving Elliott Management's earlier case against Peru that the history of that section as interpreted in New York state courts revealed that it was intended only to prohibit purchases made with the \"sole\" intent of bringing a lawsuit \"in and of itself\". That is, the New York Legislature was trying to stop attorneys or debt collectors from exploiting cost-shifting clauses in worthless promissory notes to obtain judgments for minuscule amounts (i.e., the face value of the notes) that also awarded massive costs incurred in the course of litigation. Section 489 does not apply to purchases made with the primary intent of collecting on the face value of the instrument, where litigation is merely a means to that end. The United Kingdom, however, permanently banned the use of its courts for suits by vulture funds in 2011. As of 2014 70% of the world's sovereign bonds are issued in New York, and 22% in London.\n\nAccording to \"Reuters\" in 2013, the case is likely to be of particular importance in cases in which the creditors are being asked to accept substantial debt and debt service reduction, though it is unclear given the special circumstances of the Elliot/NML case whether it will be broadly applicable to holdouts in other restructurings. The American Bankers Association warned that the district court's interpretation of the equal terms provision could enable a single creditor to thwart the implementation of an internationally supported restructuring plan, and thereby undermine the decades of effort the United States has expended to encourage a system of cooperative resolution of sovereign debt crises.\n\nMauricio Macri was elected president of Argentina in November 2015. He sought to negotiate with the holdouts and end the default, in order to return to the international capital markets and benefit the national economy. In early 2016, US courts ruled that Argentina must make full payments to four \"holdout bondholders\" (NML, Aurelius Capital Management, Davidson Kempner Capital Management, and Bracebridge Capital) by February 29. Argentina made an offer to pay $6.5 billion to settle lawsuits on February 5, requesting that the prior ruling on payments be lifted. Daniel Pollack announced in February 2016 that Argentina had reached an agreement with Paul Singer. The deal would still need to be ratified by the Argentine Congress. The deal would only last until April 14, 2016.\n\nAlthough \"Cambiemos\", Macri's political coalition, did not have a majority at either house of the Congress, the bill was approved by both of them in March. Many Peronist legislators supported it because the province governors would also benefit from access to international credit markets. With the bill approved, Argentina faced a court hearing in New York on April 13. The court confirmed the ruling of Griesa, and allowed Argentina to pay to the bondholders of 2005, 2010 and those that were still in default. The payment will be done with a bond sale. This appeared to the media to be the end of the Argentine default, which had started in 2001.\n\nHowever, nearly US$1 billion in defaulted bonds remained unpaid, which resulted in continuing though less publicised litigation. Argentina finally reported in November 2016 that it had reached agreements to pay US$475 million to settle the outstanding defaulted debt. In January 2017, \"The Economist\" reported that the MSCI index would be considering re-accepting Argentina’s shares over 2017, and on January 5, JPMorgan Chase also said it would admit Argentina into its benchmark indices early in the year. On March 6, 2017, \"Barron's\" reported that Moody’s Investors Services had “raised its outlook on Argentina’s credit rating to positive from stable.”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40747", "title": "Automated information systems security", "text": "Automated information systems security\n\nIn telecommunication, automated information systems security comprises measures and controls that ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information processed and stored by automated information systems. The unauthorized disclosure, modification, or destruction may be accidental or intentional.\n\nAutomated information systems security includes consideration of all computer hardware and software functions, characteristics and features; operational procedures; accountability procedures; and access controls at the central computer facility, remote computer, and terminal facilities; management constraints; physical structures and devices, such as computers, transmission lines, and power sources; and personnel and communications controls needed to provide an acceptable level of risk for the automated information system and for the data and information contained in the system. Automated information systems security also includes the totality of security safeguards needed to provide an acceptable protection level for an automated information system and for the data handled by an automated information system.\n\nIn information security, automated information systems security is a synonym for computer security.\n\n"}
{"id": "1972594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972594", "title": "Azanian People's Liberation Army", "text": "Azanian People's Liberation Army\n\nThe Azanian People's Liberation Army (APLA), formerly known as Poqo, was the military wing of the Pan Africanist Congress, an African nationalist movement in South Africa.\n\nAfter attacks on and the murder of several white families the APLA was subsequently classified as a terrorist organisation by the South African National government and the United States, and banned.\n\nAPLA was disbanded and integrated into the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) in June 1994.\n\nIn 1968 the \"Azanian People's Liberation Army\" replaced defunct \"Poqo\" as the armed wing of the PAC. Its name was derived from Azania, the ancient Greek name for Southern Africa.\n\nAzania is the name that has been applied to various parts of southeastern tropical Africa. In the Roman period and perhaps earlier, the toponym referred to a portion of the Southeast African coast extending from Kenya, to perhaps as far south as Tanzania.\n\nPoqo was founded in 1961 following the massacre of PAC-led protestors at the hands of police outside the Sharpeville police station the previous year. Potlako Leballo, the chairman of the PAC at the time of the formation of its military wing in the 1960s, modelled APLA on the Chinese People's Liberation Army, with Templeton Ntantala as his deputy.\n\nMembers of Poqo targeted the town of Paarl in the Western Cape on 22 November 1962, when a crowd of over 200 people armed with axes, pangas and other home-made weapons marched from the Mbekweni township into Paarl and attacked the police station, homes and shops. Two white residents, Frans Richard and Rencia Vermeulen were killed. This attack was followed by the murder of a family camping at Bashee River in the Transkei on 4 February 1963. Norman and Elizabeth Grobbelaar, their teenage daughters Edna and Dawn, together with Mr Derek Thompson, were hacked to death in their caravans.\n\nAfter the Soweto uprising in 1976, a number of students went into exile in APLA camps elsewhere on the African continent. In 1976, APLA received 500 recruits, including 178 Basotho, for a new Lesotho Liberation Army (LLA), to be formed as an offshoot of the exiled-Basutoland Congress Party under the leadership of Matooane Mapefane, who was a senior instructor of APLA in Libya. Ntantala's original group of 70 APLA soldiers felt threatened by the influx of new recruits, leading Ntantala to attempt a coup against then commander, Potlako Leballo in Dar es Salaam. This was prevented by LLA soldiers, a move which exacerbated tensions within two PAC factions, the \"Diplomat-Reformist\" (DR) and \"Maoist-Revolutionary\" (MR) factions. Vusumzi Make's appointment as Leballo's successor sparked a mutiny at Chunya, an APLA camp in Tanzania, on 11 March 1980, during which several APLA forces were killed and the rest further factionalised and confined to different camps; many escaped to Kenya. Leballo himself relocated to Zimbabwe in late 1980 along with senior intelligence and air force personnel from the MR faction. Pressure from Tanzania, however, resulted in his deportation in May–June 1981, as well as the deportation or imprisonment of the others. Make was replaced by John Nyathi Pokela (who was released from Robben Island in 1980), but his ineffectual term of office was marred by further mutinies, executions and assassinations. Following Pokela’s death, Leballo made a comeback through support from Libya, North Korea and Ghana. After his sudden death in January 1986, the DR faction, outmaneuvered by the ANC, fell into disarray leaving behind the legacy of a semi-national socialist political front.\n\nAfter 1986, APLA rejected the MR faction's concept of the guerrilla as a social reformer and instead adopted an ultimately disastrous rallying cry of \"One Settler, One Bullet\". In the 1990–94 period, the organisation became known for its attacks on civilians despite the progress in negotiations at the Convention for a Democratic South Africa. In 1993, the APLA’s chief commander, Sabelo Phama, declared that he \"would aim his guns at children - to hurt whites where it hurts most.\" Phama proclaimed 1993 as \"The Year of the Great Storm\" and sanctioned the following attacks on civilians:\n\n\nIn total thirty-two applications were received for attacks on civilians. In these incidents, 24 people were killed and 122 seriously injured.\n\nThe Truth and Reconciliation Commission has presently charged that PAC-sanctioned action directed towards white South Africans were \"gross violations of human rights for which the PAC and APLA leadership are held to be morally and politically responsible and accountable\".\n\nIn spite of their failure to achieve their goals at the negotiated settlements to end apartheid, the PAC decided to participate in the 1994 elections, and PAC leader Clarence Makwetu ordered APLA to end its armed struggle.\n\nIn 1994, APLA was disbanded and absorbed into the new South African National Defence Force, although members of the MR-faction refused to accept this agreement. Attempts by MR officers to regroup in Vietnam, North Korea, and China were unsuccessful, although links were maintained with the Tamil Tigers and Maoist groups in Nepal and India. Occasional propaganda leaflets distributed within South Africa focus on disparity of wealth and the issue of land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42522859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42522859", "title": "Bowman v United Kingdom", "text": "Bowman v United Kingdom\n\nBowman v United Kingdom [1998] ECHR 4 is a UK constitutional law case, concerning the legitimate limits on campaign finance spending. A majority of the court held that countries joined to the European Convention on Human Rights may be required to permit minimal levels of campaign spending. The minority held that the United Kingdom's near total ban on election-related spending should be regarded as compatible with ECHR article 10.\n\nThe principle in \"Bowman\" stands in contrast to the unlimited spending at elections that the US Supreme Court opened up by \"Buckley v Valeo\", where a majority struck down parts of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, and the licence of corporations to donate money as a protected right of \"free speech\" in \"Citizens United v FEC\", with or without authorisation by their stakeholders.\n\nPhyllis Bowman, an anti-abortion campaigner, distributed 25,000 leaflets in Halifax before the 1992 general election on the positions of three candidates on abortion. She was prosecuted under the Representation of the People Act 1983 section 75 for the offence of spending more than £5 on publications aiming to promote a candidate six weeks before an election, without authorisation. She was acquitted because the summons was issued out of time. However, Bowman contended at the European Court of Human Rights that her prosecution was an unjustifiable interference with her freedom of expression under the European Convention on Human Rights, article 10.\n\nThe majority of fourteen out of twenty judges on the European Court of Human Rights held there was a violation of ECHR article 10. The Representation of the People Act 1983 section 75 was an indirect restriction freedom of expression. The restriction was prescribed by law, and pursued a legitimate aim of protecting others' rights: candidates and the electorate, by seeking to secure equality among candidates. Freedom of expression and the right to free elections were the foundation of a democratic system, but election spending could undermine equal elections. However, a £5 spending limit was practically an absolute bar on distributing information to influence voters. Given the lack of restrictions on political parties, it was not a proportionate response to secure equality between the candidates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49930358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49930358", "title": "Bureau of Energy Resources", "text": "Bureau of Energy Resources\n\nThe Bureau of Energy Resources (ENR) is an agency in the United States Department of State that coordinates the department's efforts in promoting international energy security. The bureau is under the purview of the Under Secretary of State for Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment.\n\nThe head of the Bureau of Energy Resources is Assistant Secretary Francis R. Fannon.\n\nThe Bureau of Energy Resources was established in October 2011, following a recommendation in the 2010 Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review calling on the department to create a bureau uniting diplomatic and programmatic efforts in the global production and use of energy. The new bureau combined personnel and assets previously assigned to existing energy-related offices in the department, primarily from what is now the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs.\n\nThe bureau is headed by the Special Envoy and Coordinator for International Energy Affairs, who is appointed by the United States Secretary of State. Four Deputy Assistant Secretaries also oversee different divisions of the bureau, namely Energy Diplomacy, Energy Transformation, Energy Governance and Access, and Bureau Implementation and Coordination. Six unique offices exist within the bureau:\n\nThe bureau manages three foreign assistance programs with a total FY 2014 budget of $11.8 million in economic support funds. ENR relies heavily on interagency agreements with the Departments of Interior, Commerce, and Treasury, as well as on contracted private-sector firms, to implement technical assistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1928237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1928237", "title": "Carless days in New Zealand", "text": "Carless days in New Zealand\n\nCarless days were introduced by the Third National Government of New Zealand on 30 July 1979. The enabling legislation was one of several unsuccessful attempts to help the declining New Zealand economy after the oil shocks of the late 1970s—other such policies included the Think Big strategy.\n\nIn this scheme, the owners of all private petrol-powered motor vehicles under , with the exception of motorcycles, were required to refrain from using their car on one day of the week, that day being designated by the owner. Thursday was the most frequently chosen day. Each car displayed a coloured sticker on its windscreen which noted the day on which it could not be used, and infringements were punishable by a hefty fine (stickers were different colours, depending on which day of the week they displayed). Other restrictions were also brought in, including reducing the open-road speed limit from to and restricting the hours that petrol could be sold at service stations and garages.\n\nThe first person fined was Gordon Marks of Christchurch, who forgot that at 3.45 am after a post-party nap in his car his \"car-less day\" had started at 2 am. He was fined $50 rather than the $400 maximum fine. Journalist Richard Griffin said that \"it was a bit like drunk driving - if you could get away with it you did. There was no stigma attached ... \n\nThe carless days scheme was highly unpopular, and largely ineffective. It lasted less than a year, being scrapped in May 1980, though the 80 km/h limit remained for several years. The legislation was a failure for a number of reasons. Most importantly, exemptions were allowed, indicated by an exemption sticker. A black market for exemption stickers and imitations of them quickly developed, rendering the scheme unworkable. There was also a distinct problem in inequality—households that could afford to run two cars could simply choose different days for the two cars and continue to drive on all seven days as before. In addition, there is anecdotal evidence of people driving considerably greater mileages to achieve their daily travel needs on days they had the use of one car rather than two.\n"}
{"id": "40085474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40085474", "title": "Casitas del Sur case", "text": "Casitas del Sur case\n\nThe Casitas del Sur case refers to the disappearance of several minors from children's refuges operated by the religious organization Iglesia Cristiana Restaurada (Restored Christian Church).\n\nThe case is a reference to the private Mexico City shelter 'Casitas del Sur' from which 126 children were rescued in January 2009. In addition to the 'Casitas del Sur' shelter, minors were reported missing from Centro de Adaptación e Integración Familiar A.C. (CAIFAC) in Monterrey, Nuevo León and from \"La Casita\" in Cancún, Quintana Roo. As of March 2012, fourteen children remained missing.\n\nThe missing children are allegedly abducted for religious indoctrination, illegal adoptions, organ trafficking, and trafficking of children. The Attorney General of Mexico offers a $1.2 million reward for information leading to the location and recovery of the missing children.\n\nThe case is the subject of the book \"Se venden niños\" by investigative journalist Sanjuana Martínez. \"La Jornada\" journalist Carlos Martínez García was granted protective measures after receiving threats for his report on the case.\n\nThe case began to surface in 2005, when irregularities in La Casita shelter in Cancún were reported. The case became more publicized in late 2008 when ten-year-old Ilse Michel Curiel Martínez was not found in the Casitas del Sur shelter. In 2005 Martinez was taken to a temporary shelter of the Mexico City Attorney General’s Office (PGJDF) due to an alleged case of domestic violence.\n\nShe was sent to the Casitas del Sur shelter while the case was settled in the court. When the charges were dropped, the judge requested the release of the minor to her grandmother but shelter staff rejected the request. On 31 October 2008, government officials went to the property to request the release of the minor, but their entry was denied. After obtaining a search warrant, police entered the facility to look for the minor but were unable to find her. \n\nPolice suspect the minor had been transferred to the state of Morelos. Local PAN congressman Agustín Castilla Marroquín filed a criminal complaint against the director of the temporary shelter, Lorena González, that transferred Ilse Michell to Casitas del Sur and demanded that she be relieved of her duties for her possible involvement in the case. González denied having transferred the child to Casitas del Sur saying it was the responsibility of the district attorney's office.\n\nWhen a second girl was reported missing on 27 January 2009, local PAN congressman Agustín Castilla charged public officials with negligence and complicity saying personnel from the District Attorney's office warned the shelter of the searches so that the minors could be removed from the facilities.\n\nOn 29 January 2009 when at least four parents complained of being forbidden to see their children, over 30 unarmed police officers, social workers, and staff from the Human Rights Commission entered two Casitas del Sur facilities disguised as nurses to confuse shelter staff and to prevent the children from panicking. Seven shelter employees objected with shouts to the release of the minors, causing the children to go on a frenzy, screaming, crying, and chanting apocalyptic phrases and accusing their rescuers of being corrupt.\n\nThe children repeated phrases such as \"Here only the almighty God exists, and here it all ends\", leading officials to believe that the minors were encouraged to participate in a mass suicide. Police believed the children were subjected to severe religious indoctrination and transferred the 126 minors to the National System for Integral Family Development to undergo medical and psychological studies.\n\nThe children were reluctant to provide information to psychologists. Officials discovered that children received no outside schooling and were forced to participate in long hours of prayer. A rescued girl initially identified herself as Martinez, but later identified as another minor. DNA tests performed on the minor gave a negative result. The seven shelter employees with arrested and charged with obstruction of justice.\n\nOn June 6, 2014 Ilse Michel arrived alone in a taxi to the offices of the National System for Integral Family Development in Ecatepec, Mexico. She reunited with her grandmother after spending five years with a couple who told her she had been abandoned. As of March 2014, eight children remain missing. \n"}
{"id": "56861446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56861446", "title": "Catalina Cruz (politician)", "text": "Catalina Cruz (politician)\n\nCatalina Cruz (born 1982/1983) is a Colombian-American attorney and former DREAMer from the borough of Queens in New York City. Cruz was elected as the Democratic candidate in the Fall 2018 election for the 39th district of the New York State Assembly, representing Corona, Elmhurst, and Jackson Heights, Queens. Cruz became the first former undocumented immigrant who identifies as a DREAMer to be elected in New York state. (Both Adriano Espaillat and Gabriela Rosa were former undocumented immigrants who served in the New York State legislature, but neither identifies as a DREAMer.) She is also the first Colombian-American in the district, and only the third DREAMer to serve in an elected position in the United States. Cruz has worked as an advocate for immigration rights, including as Director of New York Governor Andrew Cuomo's 2016 Exploited Task Force.\n\nCruz was born in Medellín, Colombia. In 1992, when she was nine years old, Cruz and her mother came to the United States under a six month tourist visa. They remained in the U.S. and she was undocumented for over 10 years after her initial tourist visa expired.. Cruz grew up in Queens. She has five siblings, three of whom are U.S. citizens.\n\nIn 2001, Cruz graduated from John Bowne High School in Flushing, Queens. In 2005, Cruz received a bachelor's degree with honors in forensic psychology from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. In 2009, Cruz received a J.D. from the City University of New York School of Law.<\n\nAfter law school Cruz worked as a Volunteer Assistant Attorney General for the New York State Attorney General, Andrew Cuomo, where her case work included focusing on fraud related to immigration services and working on prosecution efforts.\n\nFrom 2009 to 2012, Cruz was counsel at the Goddard Riverside SRO Law Project at the Goddard Riverside Community Center on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2014, Cruz was counsel to the Division of Immigrant Policies and Affairs at the New York State Department of Labor. \n\nIn 2014, Cruz was counsel to the Immigration Committee for the New York City Council, where she worked to improve coverage of issue related to domestic worker trafficking. She worked on the Unaccompanied Minors Initiative and the IDNYC program. She also oversaw the Key to the City program. She was in this position until 2015.\n\nFrom 2015 to 2017, Cruz was the Director of the Office of the New York State Governor, Andrew Cuomo. During this time she was the Special Assistant for Labor & Workforce. She was also the Director of the Joint Task Force on Worker Exploitation and Employee Misclassification, also known as the Exploited Workers Task Force, a working as assistant counsel in Cuomo's taskforce. \n\nIn 2017, Cruz became Chief of Staff for New York City Council Member, Julissa Ferreras-Copeland until Ferreras-Copeland made the decision not to seek re-election. \n\nIn February 2018, Cruz announced her candidacy for Francisco Moya's vacated position on the New York State Assembly's Assembly District 39. The District's Democratic leadership instead unanimously selected Ari Espinal as the Democratic candidate in the April 2018 special election. \n\nCruz then won the Democratic primary for District 39 on September 13, 2018 over Espinal, and won the seat on November 6, 2018.\n\nCruz identifies as a DREAMer under the DREAM Act that was introduced in 2001, which addresses citizenship of children brought to the United States by their parents and living as undocumented citizens. \n\nCruz married her high school boyfriend in 2003, which allowed Cruz to get her green card in 2005 and become a U.S. citizen in 2009. Cruz' citizenship allowed her to sponsor her mother's citizenship. The marriage ended in divorce. Cruz is married to a New York Police Department police officer. She and her husband live in Jackson Heights, Queens.\n\nCruz has said that the attorney who did her immigration papers inspired her to go to law school and become a lawyer.\n"}
{"id": "5392528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5392528", "title": "Cessavit", "text": "Cessavit\n\nA cessavit was a writ in English law, originating in Stat. 6 Edw. I., given by statute to recover lands when the tenant has for two years failed to perform the conditions of his tenure. It was abolished in 3 and 4 Wm. IV. The forms and species of this writ were various; such as, \"cessavit de cantaria\", \"cessavit de feodifirma\", and \"cessavit per biennium\". \n\nAn example can be seen in a Plea Roll of the Court of Common Pleas, in 1430, where Robert Gryttone, abbot of Colchester St John, is suing Nicholas Peke. The words can be seen in the third line as \"p. biennium iam cessavit\". \n\n"}
{"id": "10007529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10007529", "title": "Civil rights movement in Omaha, Nebraska", "text": "Civil rights movement in Omaha, Nebraska\n\nThe Civil rights movement in Omaha, Nebraska, has roots that extend back until at least 1912. With a history of racial tension that starts before the founding of the city, Omaha has been the home of numerous overt efforts related to securing civil rights for African Americans since at least the 1920s.\n\nPrior to the formal founding of the civil rights movement in Omaha, several African Americans secured status that was relevant to later struggles. While the civil rights movement proper did not begin until the 1940s, the historical significance of Omaha in securing civil rights for a variety of American people could be said to start in 1876.\n\nThat year stands out in the American civil rights movement as Omaha became the location of the pivotal 1876 trial of \"Standing Bear v. Crook\". In that trial a U.S. district court judge at Fort Omaha set U.S. legal precedent by recognising the personhood of Native Americans, thereby granting American Indians the rights of citizens. With Standing Bear, a Ponca chief on trial, local journalist Thomas Tibbles, Omaha Susette LaFlesche and General Crook himself testified on behalf of acknowledging Native American rights. For the first time, a U.S. court had ruled that an Indian was, officially, a person. Standing Bear won the case, securing the right of his tribe to leave their Indian Territory reservation and return to their Nebraska homelands.\n\nThe first record of community violence against blacks in Omaha occurred in 1891, when an African American man called Joe Coe was lynched by a vigilante mob for allegedly raping a white girl. Another lynching occurred in 1919 when a white mob stormed the Douglas County Courthouse to take Willy Brown, an African American accused of raping a young white woman. While these incidents terrified the population of African Americans in the community and effectively segregated them from the rest of the city, the civil rights movement in Omaha did not gain large-scale momentum until the 1920s.\n\nWith early 20th century growth in the number of African American migrants recruited by the meatpacking industry, the population doubled from 1910 to 1920. Some groups in the city resisted such changes. Some public places discriminated against African Americans, although segregation was not legal. Up to the 1940s and 1950s, many of the city's restaurants were effectively segregated, with signs that stated, \"We Don't Serve Any Colored Race.\"\n\nAn early organized effort for civil rights in Omaha was the creation of the local chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in 1912, Episcopal minister, Father John Albert Williams playing the role of first president. At the national level, leadership and membership were integrated. The chapter has continued.\n\nOther civil rights organizations soon formed in Omaha, part of the early 20th century spirit of reform that generated many progressive groups. In 1917, George Wells Parker founded the Hamitic League of the World in Omaha. In 1918 the League published his pamphlet \"Children of the Sun.\" The Hamitic League was committed to black nationalism. Based in New York, Cyril Briggs became editor of their journal, \"The Crusader\". It later became the journal of the African Blood Brotherhood (ABB).\n\nIn the 1920s, the Baptist minister Earl Little founded the Omaha chapter of Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association. Little was the father of Malcolm, who later named himself Malcolm X when he became a Black Muslim minister and spokesman for the Nation of Islam. Malcolm X was born in Omaha in 1925, but his family moved away from the city while he was young.\n\nThere are reports of African Blood Brotherhood-related action in Omaha, particularly around the time of the Willy Brown lynching. Witnessing the mob rule that overtook the city at the time of the lynching horrified many people. One of those who was radicalized was Harry Haywood, who went on to become involved with the African Blood Brotherhood. Later Haywood became a leading African American member of the Communist Party of the United States. He was active from the 1920s to his death in 1981.\n\nIn 1927, the first chapter in the American West of the Urban League was founded in Omaha. The chapter was organized at a meeting of white and Black citizens at the Y.M.C.A. and its purpose was \"the social and economic betterment of Negro residents and improved relationship between races.\" The Omaha Urban League (now the Urban League of Nebraska) has been led by many prominent African Americans, including Whitney M. Young, Jr. and Thomas H. Warren, Sr. Young quickly tripled the membership of the chapter during his tenure in the 1950s and would eventually lead the National Urban League during the civil rights movement. Warren previously served as the first African-American chief of police for the City of Omaha. The Urban League of Nebraska continues today.\n\nDuring this period, the National Federation of Colored Women had five chapters in North Omaha with more than 750 members. They actively conducted a variety of social, political and charitable work throughout the city of Omaha. Starting in 1920, the Colored Commercial Club organized to help blacks in Omaha secure employment and to encourage business enterprises among African Americans.\n\nThe South Omaha Stockyards employed a large portion of the city's African American workers from the South. Working conditions there were often brutal. These workers made significant gains after organizing with the Industrial Workers of the World in the 1920s. During the Depression of the 1930s, however, they suffered setbacks when major packinghouses closed.\n\nIn the 1930s, a clandestine group called the Knights and Daughters of Tabor was founded in Omaha. Also known as the \"Knights of Liberty\", it was a secret African-American organization whose goal was \"nothing less than the destruction of slavery.\"\n\nIn 1938, Mildred Brown founded The \"Omaha Star\". Starting with a circulation of 6,000, it quickly became the city's only African-American newspaper, featuring positive news, role models and activities throughout the community. The paper strongly supported the local civil rights movement, for which it often featured successes and highlighted the challenges facing blacks in Omaha. The \"Star\" reported proudly on the career of Captain Alfonza W. Davis, who fought with the Tuskegee Airmen during World War II. He was presumed Killed In Action when his aircraft disappeared over Germany in 1944.\n\nMatthew Oliver Ricketts, elected from Omaha in 1892, was Nebraska's first African American state legislator, but no other black state legislator was elected until 1926. In August 1906, black members of the Omaha community formed a group called the \"Progressive League of Douglas County\", Williams president, to pressure the county Republicans to include blacks on the legislative ticket, in particular Millard F. Singleton. Eventually, North Omaha sent a succession of African Americans to the State Legislature between the 1920s and WWII, starting with John Andrew Singleton and Ferdinand L. Barnett in 1926, Dr. Aaron Manasses McMillan (elected in 1928) and followed by Johnny Owen. In the first Unicameral in 1937 John Adams, Jr was elected (he served from 1935-1941) and was followed by his father, John Adams, Sr, (served from 1949 until his death in 1962). Adams, Sr was a noted minister of the African Methodist Episcopal Church. John A Singleton, John Adams, Jr, John O. Wood, Andrew Stuart, and Harry Anderson formed the Consolidated Negro Political Organization in March 1933 in an effort to organize black political activity in Omaha. Adams, Jr was a lawyer who frequently was involved in Civil Rights cases and, as a legislator, introduced the state's first public housing law and supported other welfare legislation.\n\nIn 1947, a group of students developed the DePorres Club. Founded at Creighton University, this club included African-American high school students and white Creighton University students who actively sought to fight racial discrimination in housing and the workplace.\n\nIn the 1950s, the offices of the \"Omaha Star\" hosted the DePorres Club after Creighton banned them from campus. The club hosted a community center called the Omaha DePorres Center to meet the needs of low-income families. It eventually started branches in Denver and Kansas City. According to one historian, \"Their goals and tactics foreshadowed the efforts of civil rights activists throughout the nation in the 1960s.\"\n\nOne of the early efforts led by the DePorres Club was the 1952–54 Omaha Bus Boycott. Mildred Brown, a leader of the boycott, extolled readers of the \"Omaha Star\" to \"Don't ride Omaha's buses or streetcars. If you must ride, protest by using 18 pennies.\" Focusing on ending the Omaha and Council Bluffs Street Railway Company's policy of not hiring black drivers, the boycott was successful.\n\nIn 1958, a group of African American educators in Omaha Public Schools started a professional caucus called Concerned and Caring Educators that continues to this day. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. preached at Salem Baptist Church in North Omaha late that same year.\n\nDuring the 1960s, community activists liked to gather at North Omaha neighborhood locations, including the Fair Deal Cafe on North 24th Street and Goodwin's Spencer Street Barbershop at 3116 N. 24th Street, where young Ernie Chambers was a barber. Other notable activists important to Omaha's African American community during this period included Rowena Moore, Lois Mark Stalvey, and Bertha Calloway.\n\nIn 1963, a group of African American ministers from North Omaha formed a group called the \"Citizens Civic Committee for Civil Liberties\", or 4CL. The group rallied throughout the city to demand civil rights for all African Americans through picketing, stand-ins during city council meetings and other efforts. They set forth the formal agenda for Omaha's civil rights movement, with three main goals to be achieved through state legislation: to ensure equal housing opportunities and equal job opportunities for African Americans, and to secure integrated schools through busing for all African American students. That year local youth activists were successful in bringing down the color barrier at Peony Park, the city's main amusement park, after protesting at the admission gates for several weeks.\n\nAccording to the Nebraska Legislature, civil rights demonstrations in Omaha in 1963 led to the creation of the Omaha Human Rights Commission. According to a period documentary, this commission was set up only to placate civil rights activists, and because of that, failed. 4CL and other groups also saw this Commission as a stalling tactic by Omaha's city leaders.\n\nNumerous national civil rights leaders made Omaha a stop on their speaking circuits. After Dr. King spoke in 1958, Malcolm X spoke in Omaha in 1964. In 1966 Robert Kennedy visited North Omaha during his presidential campaign and spoke at Creighton University in support of Omaha's civil rights activists.\n\nStarting in 1963, the Black Association for Nationalism Through Unity (BANTU) was a unique Omaha youth activism group that organized African American students in the city's high schools. Focusing on black power and self-determination, BANTU claimed concessions from the Omaha City Council, with Senator Edward R. Danner lobbying the Nebraska State Legislature on their behalf. BANTU maintained a unique relationship with the Omaha chapter of the Black Panther Party (BPP). This may have included being a recruiting group for the BPP.\n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s, the Black Panthers were actively organizing Freedom Schools in Omaha's public housing projects. They were blamed for starting several of the riots in the 1960s. In 1970, Black Panther leaders David Rice and Edward Poindexter were charged and convicted of the murder of Omaha Police Officer Larry Minard with a bomb. Their case continues to be controversial, as Omaha Police allegedly withheld exculpatory evidence at trial. Targeted by the FBI's COINTELPRO, Rice and Poindexter are supported by Amnesty International with calls for retrial or release. The Nebraska Parole Board has recommended the men for release, but political leaders have not acted on these recommendations.\n\nAchievements of the movement in Omaha included the desegregation of city facilities in the late 1950s, the 1964 event of Omahan Gale Sayers becoming the first African American NFL player to share a room with a white player, and the 1966 production of the Oscar-nominated documentary \"A Time for Burning\", which tracked the sentiment of 1960s white Omaha towards African Americans. In 1968 Marlin Briscoe, a football star and graduate of a local high school, became the first black quarterback in the American Football League, and in 1970 local barber and law school graduate Ernie Chambers was elected to the Nebraska State Legislature as the newest African American state legislator, preceded by other African Americans Edward Danner, John Adams Sr. and his son John Adams Jr. The Negro History Society formally opened the Great Plains Black History Museum in 1976 with the goal of celebrating African American contributions to the city and region.\n\nWhile the Omaha civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s did not gain its goals of passage of state laws to ensure equal housing and job opportunities, it did succeed in securing integrated school busing, and employment with the municipal transit company, for example. The movement also was seen as successful in raising awareness of the inequities facing African Americans in Omaha.\n\nThe City of Omaha installed the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr Cornerstone Memorial at the NW corner of 24th and Lake Streets in 2002. In 2003, native Omahan Thomas Warren was named the city's first African American police chief. His advancement could be seen as part of the political progression of African Americans in the city.\n\nIn 2005, Ernie Chambers became the longest-serving State Senator in Nebraska history, with more than 32 years of service to his community and state. Because of a term-limit bill enacted in the Nebraska State Legislature, Chambers was not to be allowed to run for reelection when his term expired in 2008.\n\nIn response to West Omaha districts' concerns about schools, Senator Chambers proposed a controversial school separation plan for Omaha in the Nebraska State Legislature. He lobbied to create three districts in the city. Each was to be drawn along geographic boundaries that loosely correlated to the residential (and racial) housing patterns in the city: African Americans in North Omaha, Hispanic/Latinos in South Omaha, and Caucasians in West Omaha. The State Legislature signed this plan into law in April 2006.\n\nWithin a month, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People brought a lawsuit. It argued that due to Omaha's racially segregated residential patterns, subdivided school districts will also be racially segregated, contrary to the historic case of \"Brown v. Board of Education\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1048415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1048415", "title": "Cross Examination Debate Association", "text": "Cross Examination Debate Association\n\nThe Cross Examination Debate Association (CEDA) ( ) is the largest intercollegiate policy debate association in the United States. Throughout the school year, CEDA sanctions over 60 tournaments throughout the nation, including an annual National Championship Tournament that brings together over 175 individual debate teams from across the nation to compete on the basis of research, persuasive speaking, argumentation, and philosophy.\n\nFounded in 1971 as the Southwest Cross Examination Debate Association, CEDA is now the primary national association promoting policy topic intercollegiate academic debate. In cooperation with the National Debate Tournament Committee and the American Debate Association, CEDA formulates the annual intercollegiate policy debate topic used in tournament competition throughout the nation.\n\nCEDA acts as a tournament sanctioning agent, providing through its Constitution and By-Laws a framework for normalizing tournament practices and procedures. Throughout the tournament season, CEDA calculates the National Sweepstakes Standings, the national and regional rankings of member institutions based on compiled tournament results.\n\nCEDA also functions as a professional association for scholars and teachers in the field of applied argumentation and debate. In addition to sponsoring scholarly programs on issues of interest to association members at the annual convention of the National Communication Association, CEDA has organized two indigenous scholarly assessment conferences: The 1991 St. Paul 20th Anniversary Assessment Conference, and the 2001 Tahoe Conference on Academic Debate. CEDA and the NDT co-sponsored a third professional conference, The 2009 National Developmental Conference at Wake Forest University. The 2009 Conference was directed by Dr. Allan Louden of Wake Forest University. The conference proceedings were edited by Louden and published by the International Debate Education Association Press as Navigating Opportunity: Policy Debate in the 21st Century.\n\nCEDA also publishes Contemporary Argumentation and Debate: The Journal of the Cross Examination Debate Association, a refereed scholarly journal that serves as the primary outlet for monographs and essays addressing issues related to the theory and practice of academic debate. The journal is edited by Dr. Jennifer Bevan of Chapman University and Dr. Gordon Stables of the University of Southern California.\n\nFor a number of years, CEDA employed a two-person team value debate format. CEDA utilized two topics each year, one governing the Fall Semester and the second governing the Spring Semester. For the Spring 1996 topic, it was voted to continue debating the fall topic about Mexico. Beginning with the 1996-1997 season, however, CEDA has employed a single, year-long policy debate topic.\n\nIn 1996, the NDT and the American Debate Association agreed to employ the CEDA topic during their seasons, effectively unifying the organizations.\n\nIn the 2013 tournament, the winning team from Emporia State University was criticized for using personal memoirs and rap music to criticize white privilege during the debate. Opponents to this form of debate argue that rhetorical tools utilized by recent championship teams violated the anti-harassment policies of CEDA and the National Debate Tournament and common sense. CEDA President Paul Mabrey points to the value of limited actual formal rules in CEDA debate and the ways that a variety of forms of debate raise the educational value of the activity and call these objections \"nothing other than thinly-veiled racism.\"\n\nIn 2014, despite winning the tournament, the winning team from Towson University was criticized by these observers for referencing racial slurs. In the wake of this controversy, CEDA President Paul Mabrey stated in an official CEDA video of that the accusations of poor preparation and incomprehensibility “...[R]epresent the worst of our human bigotry. These attacks on Towson, Oklahoma, and others in our debate community are motivated by racism and fear.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31483520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31483520", "title": "Curtis Gans", "text": "Curtis Gans\n\nCurtis Bernard Gans (June 17, 1937 – March 15, 2015) was an American activist, writer, and expert on American voting patterns.\n\nWith Allard K. Lowenstein, Gans in 1967 started and headed the Dump Johnson movement. Based on opposition to the Vietnam War, the movement, which was considered quixotic at first, grew strong and was instrumental in setting in motion events which eventually persuaded president Lyndon Johnson that continuing his campaign to be re-nominated for the presidency by his party would be difficult and divisive and uncertain of success. Johnson withdrew his candidacy, an unusual event in American politics for a sitting president.\n\nGans studied turnout and voting patterns for more than three decades. He co-founded and was director of the Center for the Study of the American Electorate, formerly housed at American University in Washington, D. C. Gans was commonly sought out by major American publications as an expert on voting patterns and was sometimes called on by the US State Department's Foreign Press Center to brief foreign reporters during the runup to American elections.\n\nAdditionally, he served as a consultant to the Woodrow Wilson Center for International Scholars, the National Committee for an Effective Congress, and managed a number of political campaigns. In 2015, he died at the age of 77 of lung cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24767948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24767948", "title": "David Goldhill", "text": "David Goldhill\n\nDavid Goldhill was the president and CEO of the Game Show Network. Prior to this position, he was the president of the Universal Television Group.\n\nDavid Goldhill's article in \"The Atlantic\" was the cover story for its September 2009 issue. In it, he argues that dysfunction in the health care sector in America exists because markets in the health care sector are not being allowed to function properly. He thus advocates mandatory accounts into which people would pay a minimum percentage of their income every year. People would receive government coverage for truly catastrophic, unforeseen medical emergencies and procedures, like those costing more than $50,000. Foreseeable medical procedures, such as pregnancy and end-of-life care, would be paid for from the individual savings accounts. He opposes a single payer system, because he believes it would be influenced by lobbyists.\n\nHe has published a book on this topic, \"Catastrophic Care: How American Health Care Killed My Father--And How We Can Fix It\", released in the United States on January 8, 2013.\n\nHe is a self-identified Democrat. His book and articles have received praise from conservative news outlet \"The Weekly Standard\" and the libertarian think-tank the Cato Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "76362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76362", "title": "Davis–Monthan Air Force Base", "text": "Davis–Monthan Air Force Base\n\nDavis–Monthan Air Force Base (DM AFB) is a United States Air Force base located within the city limits approximately south-southeast of downtown Tucson, Arizona. \nIt was established in 1925 as Davis-Monthan Landing Field. The host unit for Davis–Monthan AFB is the 355th Fighter Wing (355 FW) assigned to Twelfth Air Force (12AF), part of Air Combat Command (ACC). The base is best known as the location of the Air Force Materiel Command's 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (309 AMARG), the aircraft boneyard for all excess military and U.S. government aircraft and aerospace vehicles.\n\nDavis–Monthan Air Force Base is a key ACC installation. The 355th Fighter Wing (355 FW) provides A-10 Thunderbolt II close air support and OA-10 forward air controllers to ground forces worldwide. The 355 FW is also the host unit, providing medical, logistical, mission and operational support to all assigned units. The 355 FW is also the sole formal training unit for the A-10 aircraft, providing initial and recurrent training to all U.S. Air Force A-10 and OA-10 pilots, to include those in the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and the Air National Guard (ANG). The 355th is also ACC's executive agent for INF and START treaty compliance.\n\nOne of the wing's tenant units, the 55th Electronic Combat Group (55 ECG), is a geographically separated unit (GSU) of the 55th Wing (55 WG) at Offutt AFB, Nebraska and is an ACC unit tasked to provide offensive counter-information and electronic attack capabilities in support of U.S. and Coalition tactical air, surface, and special operations forces with its EC-130H Compass Call aircraft and employing the EC-130H in tactical air operations in war and other contingencies worldwide. The 55 ECG also provides initial and recurrent training to all EC-130H Compass Call pilots, navigators and air crew.\n\nTwo other major tenants, the 563rd Rescue Group (structured as a GSU under ACC's 23d Wing at Moody Air Force Base, Georgia), and the Air Force Reserve Command's (AFRC) 943rd Rescue Group (structured as a GSU under AFRC's 920th Rescue Wing at Patrick Air Force Base, Florida), are tasked to provide combat search and rescue (CSAR) and personnel recovery (PR) support worldwide.\n\nPerhaps the most prominent tenant is the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (309 AMARG) of the Air Force Material Command (AFMC). As the main location for the 309 AMARG, Davis–Monthan AFB is the sole aircraft boneyard for excess military and U.S. government aircraft and other aerospace vehicles such as ballistic missiles. Tucson's dry climate and alkali soil made it an ideal location for aircraft storage and preservation.\n\nThe host wing at Davis-Monthan is the 355th Fighter Wing, which includes:\n\nThe 924 FG of the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) was reactivated in 2011 and initially assigned to Davis-Monthan AFB as an \"associate\" unit to the 355 FW flying the A-10 aircraft. As part of the Air Force Reserve Command, it is also a geographically separated unit (GSU) of AFRC's 944th Fighter Wing (944 FW) at Luke AFB, Arizona. Like the 355 FW, the 924 FG currently flies the same Fairchild Republic A-10 Thunderbolt II close air support aircraft. The 924 FG consists of the following subordinate units:\n\nBetween October 2013 and March 2014, the 924 FG transitioned from being a \"classic\" associate unit when it gained 28 A-10 aircraft of its own from Barksdale AFB, Louisiana. The 924th is now part of the Total Force Enterprise, and is the only unit-equipped both active and classic associate fighter group in Air Force Reserve Command's inventory. With oversight of the 47th Fighter Squadron, 924th MS, and 924th OSF, the group is charged with working with the Regular Air Force's 355th Fighter Wing to functionally integrate with the 355th Operations Group and 355th Maintenance Group to conduct A-10 pilot training at Davis-Monthan AFB.\n\n\nOther military activities and federal agencies using the base include the Navy Operational Support Center Tucson, a detachment of the Naval Air Systems Command, the Federal Aviation Administration, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Air and Marine Operations Tucson Air Branch, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Also located on base is the 25th Operational Weather Squadron 25 OWS. The squadron produces forecasts for the Western United States and is part of the 1st Weather Group (1 WXG) headquartered at Offutt Air Force Base, Neb. The squadron also serves as a training hub for new weather professionals - both enlisted and officers.\n\nThe base provides additional active duty support to the 162d Fighter Wing (162 FW) of the Arizona Air National Guard and the Air National Guard Air Force Reserve Command Test Center, both located at Tucson Air National Guard Base at nearby Tucson International Airport, and both of which fly the F-16C and F-16D Fighting Falcon, with the latter also operating an A-10 Thunderbolt II detachment in concert with the 355 FW at Davis-Monthan AFB.\n\nThe base was named in honor of World War I pilots Lieutenants Samuel H. Davis (1896–1921) and Oscar Monthan (1885–1924), both Tucson natives. Davis, who attended the University of Arizona prior to enlisting in the Army in 1917, died in a Florida aircraft accident in 1921. Monthan enlisted in the Army as a private in 1917, was commissioned as a ground officer in 1918, and later became a pilot; he was killed in the crash of a Martin B2 bomber in Hawaii in 1924.\n\nIn 1919, the Tucson Chamber of Commerce aviation committee established the nation's first municipally owned airfield at the current site of the Tucson Rodeo Grounds. The rapid increase in aviation activities meant a move in 1927 to the site which is now Davis–Monthan Air Force Base. After the City of Tucson acquired land southeast of town for a runway in 1925, Charles Lindbergh, fresh from his nonstop crossing of the Atlantic Ocean, flew his \"Spirit of St. Louis\" to Tucson in 1927 to dedicate Davis-Monthan Field, then the largest municipal airport in the United States.\n\nMilitary presence at the field began when Sergeant Simpson relocated his fuel and service operation to the site on 6 October 1927. He kept a log containing names of the field's customers, including Lindbergh, Amelia Earhart, Benjamin Foulois, and Jimmy Doolittle. Doolittle, awarded the Medal of Honor for his 1942 Tokyo raid, was the first military customer at the field on 9 October 1927. The combination of civil and military operations worked well until the early 1940s, when military requirements began to require the relocation of civil aviation activities.\n\nDavis-Monthan Airport became Tucson Army Air Field in 1940, as the United States prepared for World War II. The first assigned U.S. Army Air Corps units were the 1st Bomb Wing, 41st Bomb Group and 31st Air Base Group, activating on 30 April 1941 with Lieutenant Colonel Ames S. Albro Sr. as commanding officer. In its military role, the base became known as Davis-Monthan Army Air Field on 3 December 1941. U.S. Army Air Forces leaders then utilized the airfield for heavy bomber operation, sending Douglas B-18 Bolo, Consolidated B-24 Liberator, and Boeing B-29 Superfortress bombers, for training and observation missions.\n\nAmong the bombardment groups trained at the base during the war:\n\nTraining at the airfield came to a halt on 14 August 1945, when the Japanese surrendered. Davis-Monthan played a post-war role by housing German POW's from June 1945 to March 1946. It also served as a separation center, which brought the base populace to a high of 11,614 people in September 1945.\n\nWith the end of the war, operations at the base came to a virtual standstill. It was then when the base was selected as a storage site for hundreds of decommissioned aircraft, with the activation of the 4105th Army Air Force Unit. The 4105th oversaw the storage of excess B-29s and C-47 \"Gooney Birds.\" Tucson's low humidity and alkali soil made it an ideal location for aircraft storage and preservation, awaiting cannibalization or possible reuse — a mission that has continued to this day.\n\nThe Cold War era was ushered in at Davis-Monthan on 21 March 1946, with the installation placed under the claimancy of the recently established Strategic Air Command (SAC). SAC's presence at the base began in the form of the 40th and 444th Bombardment Groups, both equipped with B-29s. As part of the postwar austerity, these groups were later inactivated, with the personnel and equipment being consolidated into the 43d Bombardment Group in October. On 11 January 1948, with the establishment of the United States Air Force as independent service four months earlier, the facility was renamed Davis–Monthan Air Force Base. On 30 June 1948, the Air Force activated the 43rd Air Refueling Squadron, whose KB-29Ms were newly equipped with aerial refueling equipment purchased from the British firm FRL. The 43rd ARS, along with the 509th ARS at Walker AFB, New Mexico, was the first dedicated air refueling unit in history.\n\nOn 2 March 1949, the \"Lucky Lady II\", a B-50A of the 43d Bombardment Wing, completed the first nonstop round-the-world flight, having covered in 94 hours and 1 minute (249.45 mph). \"Lucky Lady II\" was refueled four times in the air by KB-29 tankers of the 43d Air Refueling Squadron, which had made only one operational air refueling contact before the mission. For this outstanding flight, the \"Lucky Lady II\"'s crew received the Mackay Trophy, given annually by the National Aeronautic Association for the outstanding flight of the year, and the Air Age Trophy, an Air Force Association award, given each year in recognition of significant contributions to the public understanding of the air age.\n\nIn 1953, the jet age came to Davis-Monthan when SAC units on the base converted to the new Boeing B-47 Stratojet. The 303d Bombardment Wing, Medium, was initially established on 27 August 1951, and activated at Davis-Monthan AFB on 4 September 1951. The wing operated B-29s until January 1952, when it was equipped with KB-29s. On 20 January 1953, the 303d transitioned to the Boeing B-47 Stratojet for its three bomb squadrons, while an additional air refueling squadron equipped with KC-97s was assigned to the wing between 18 February 1953, and 1 February 1956. A standard SAC Alert Area ramp was constructed in the southeast corner of the base adjacent to the runway and the 303d assumed nuclear alert responsibilities when final conversion and checkout in the B-47 was complete.\n\nIn April 1953, the Air Defense Command's (ADC) 15th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron was activated with F-86A Sabres. A year later, the unit transitioned into F-86Ds followed by a transition to F-86Ls in the fall of 1957. In the spring of 1959 the unit received Northrop F-89J interceptors which it flew for only a year when it transitioned into McDonnell F-101Bs. On 24 December 1964, the 15th FIS was inactivated.\n\nIn 1962, the Strategic Air Command's 390th Strategic Missile Wing (390 SMW) and its 18 Titan II ICBM sites around Tucson were activated. The 390 SMW was one of only three Titan II missile wings in SAC and represented the heaviest land-based missile and the largest single warhead ever fielded by U.S. strategic deterrent forces.\n\nIn July 1963, the 4028th Strategic Reconnaissance Weather Wing, equipped with U-2 strategic reconnaissance aircraft, began flying global missions from Davis-Monthan. Following the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1963, the 4080th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing at Laughlin AFB, Texas, relocated to the base and assumed responsibility for all U-2 operations, emphasizing long-range strategic reconnaissance and intelligence collection. As a Strategic Air Command (SAC) unit, the 4080th was later redesignated the 100th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing and also acquired Lockheed DC-130 Hercules aircraft for launch and control of Firebee reconnaissance drones that were the precursors of contemporary unmanned aerial systems. The DC-130s and U-2s remained at the Davis-Monthan until 1976, when the 100 SRW was inactivated, its DC-130s transferred to Tactical Air Command's 432d Tactical Drone Group, and its U-2s transferred to SAC's 9th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing (9 SRW) at Beale Air Force Base, California, where U-2 Dragon Lady operations were consolidated with SR-71 Blackbird operations.\n\nOn 15 June 1964, Davis-Monthan's 303d Bombardment Wing was inactivated as part of the retirement of the B-47 Stratojet from active service. The year 1964 brought back the combat crew training mission of the World War II years with the 4453d Combat Crew Training Wing of the Tactical Air Command equipped with the Air Force's newest and most sophisticated fighter, the McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II. In July 1971, the 355th Tactical Fighter Wing, flying the A-7 Corsair II aircraft, was activated at the base and the previously assigned F-4s were moved to Luke AFB, near Phoenix, Arizona.\n\nOn 1 October 1976, the base was transferred to Tactical Air Command (TAC) after 30 years under SAC, with SAC's 390th Strategic Missile Wing becoming a tenant command of the base. It was also that year the 355th Tactical Fighter Wing accepted the first A-10 Thunderbolt II. Since 1979, D-M has been the training location for pilots in the A-10; the base was redesignated the 355th Tactical Training Wing on 1 September 1979. The organization was later redesignated the 355th Fighter Wing since it includes operational, deployable A-10 squadrons in addition to its CONUS training mission\n\nThe 1980s brought several diverse missions to D-M. The headquarters charged with overseeing them was now the 836th Air Division, which was activated 1 January 1981. The AD advised Air Force component commanders and land forces on A-10 aircraft tactics, training, employment and readiness, and subordinate units participated in exercises such as Red Flag and Celtic Echo.\n\nThe 41st Electronic Combat Squadron equipped with the EC-130H Compass Call aircraft, arrived on 1 July 1980, and reported to the 552d Airborne Warning and Control Wing. In 1981 D-M welcomed the 868th Tactical Missile Training Group (866 TMTG). The 868th was the only U.S.-based Ground Launched Cruise Missile (GLCM) unit and the source of the crews that staffed the forward deployed GLCM wings in NATO in 1982.\n\nOn 1 September 1982, the headquarters of the 602d Tactical Air Control Wing (TAIRCW) and its subordinate 23rd Tactical Air Support Squadron (TASS), a unit responsible for the Air Force's tactical air control system west of the Mississippi River transferred from Bergstrom Air Force Base, Texas, and stood up at D-M, bringing 16 OA-37B aircraft and numerous new personnel to the base. The 23rd TASS became the Air Force's first O/A-10 squadron in 1988, providing heavily armed airborne forward air control (FAC) capability for the first time. Unlike all other D-M aircraft at the time, the 23rd TASS fleet's tail flash read \"NF\", for \"Nail FAC\"; the squadron's radio call sign was \"Nail.\"\n\nIn 1984, as a result of the first series of Strategic Arms Reduction Treaties START I between the United States and the Soviet Union, SAC began to decommission its Titan II missile system. In 1982, the 390 SMW began removing its 18 missiles and inactivating the associated sites in preparation for eventual demolition.\n\nIn October 1981, President Ronald Reagan announced that, as part of the strategic modernization program, Titan II systems were to be retired by 1 October 1987. Deactivation began at Davis-Monthan on 1 October 1982. During the operation, titled \"Rivet Cap\", the missiles were removed and shipped to Norton AFB, California for refurbishment and storage. Explosive demolition began at the headworks of missile complex 570-7 on 30 November 1983. In May 1984, the 390 SMW's last Titan II at Davis-Monthan came off alert status. SAC subsequently inactivated the 390th Strategic Missile Wing on 30 June 1984.\n\nOne site under the 390 SMW, known both as Titan II Site 571-7 and as Air Force Facility Missile Site 8, was initially decommissioned in 1982. Located approximately south of Tucson in Sahuarita, Arizona, it was saved from demolition and turned over to the Arizona Aerospace Foundation, a nonprofit organization which also administers the Pima Air and Space Museum immediately south of Davis-Monthan AFB. With a variety of items on loan from the National Museum of the United States Air Force, including an inert Titan II missile, Site 571-7 is now known as the Titan Missile Museum and is one of two remaining examples of a Titan II missile site in existence (the other being located at Vandenberg Air Force Base, California; site 395-C). In 1994, the site was declared a National Historic Landmark.\n\nIn the 1990s, the 355 TTW continued to train A-10 crews for assignments to units in the United States, England, and Korea. During this period, the 602nd Tactical Air Control Wing deployed Airborne Forward Air Controllers in their OA-10 aircraft to Operation Desert Storm, providing nearly 100 percent of this capability to the war.\n\nOn 1 October 1991, the 355 TTW was redesignated as the 355th Fighter Wing (355 FW) in tune with the Air Force's Objective Wing philosophy. The 355th Fighter Wing was composed of the 355th Operations Group (355 OG), the 355th Maintenance Group (355 MG), the 355th Medical Group (355 MDG), and the 355th Mission Support Group (355 MSG).\n\nIn May 1992, the 41st and 43d Electronic Combat Squadrons, flying EC-130E Hercules Compass Call arrived. The aircraft carried an airborne battlefield command and control center capsule that provides continuous control of tactical air operations in the forward battle area and behind enemy lines. This capability added yet more strength to the wing's combat capability. The 43rd Electronic Combat Squadron \"Bats\" are part of the 55th Wing at Offut AFB, Nebraska, but operate out of Davis-Monthan. In addition, the 42d Airborne Command and Control Squadron arrived from Keesler AFB, Mississippi on 19 July 1994.\n\nOn 1 May 1992, senior Air Force leaders implemented the policy of one base, one wing, one boss. The 836 AD and 602 TAIRCW inactivated (the later on June 15, 1992) while the 41 ECS and 43 ECS came under control of the 355 FW. With the mission diversified, the 355th Fighter Wing was redesignated as the 355th Wing (355 WG).\n\nOn 1 June 1992, Tactical Air Command was inactivated and all aircraft, personnel and installations previously under TAC were transferred to the newly established Air Combat Command (ACC) on the same date. Following Operation Desert Storm, the 355 WG supported Operation Southern Watch during deployments to Al Jaber, Kuwait, in 1997 by deploying 24 A-10s, in 1998 by deploying 16 A-10s, and in 1999 by deploying 14 A-10s—all to ensure compliance of the 33rd parallel southern no-fly zone. The flight and mysterious crash of Captain Craig D. Button took off from Davis–Monthan Air Force Base on 12 April 1997.\n\nThe attacks on 11 September 2001, led to the initiation of three ongoing missions: Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF), Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF), and Operation Noble Eagle (ONE). After Operation Enduring Freedom, eight A-10s from the 355 WG were called to Bagram Airfield, Afghanistan, to fly close air support missions supporting multinational ground forces.\n\nIn September 2002, the 48th, 55th, and the 79th Rescue Squadron's (RQS) transferred under control of the 355 WG, equipped with HC-130 aircraft and HH-60 helicopters. At the same time, the 41st and 43d Electronic Combat Squadrons were realigned under the control of the 55th Electronic Combat Group (55 ECG). While personnel and aircraft remained on Davis-Monthan AFB, operational control of the 55 ECG was assumed by the 55th Wing at Offutt AFB, Nebraska. Another major wing realignment occurred on 1 October 2003, with the activation of the 563rd Rescue Group (563 RQG) on Davis-Monthan AFB. Control of the 48th, 55th, and 79th Rescue Squadrons (RQS) was passed to the new group with the 23rd Wing (23 WG) at Moody Air Force Base, Georgia assuming operational command of the unit.\n\nIn 2003 and 2005, the 354th Fighter Squadron (354 FS) \"Bulldogs\" deployed on five-month deployments to Bagram Airfield in Afghanistan. During these deployments, they provided 24-hour presence to reassure the Afghan population as it struggled with its emergent democracy, and provided key support during national elections. While the 2003 deployment saw limited action, the Bulldogs employed over 22,000 rounds of 30 mm during 130 troops-in-contact situations during the 2005 deployment. Returning to Afghanistan in April 2007 for another six-month deployment, the 345th again provided 24-hour presence and Close Air Support expertise to coalition forces in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. During this period, insurgent activity level was the highest recorded to date in OEF. The Bulldogs employed an unprecedented number of munitions during this deployment—over 150,000 rounds of 30 mm in support of over 400 troops-in-contact situations.\n\nOn 26 April 2007, the 355th Wing was redesignated as the 355th Fighter Wing (355 FW) with only A-10 fighter aircraft assigned. Also in 2007, the 214th Reconnaissance Group (214 RG), an Arizona Air National Guard unit, was activated. Today, the 355 FW is composed of four groups: the 355th Operations Group (355 OG), the 355th Maintenance Group (355 MG), the 355th Mission Support Group (355 MSG), and the 355th Medical Group (355 MDG). Along with their tenant organizations, they make up the 6,000 Airmen and 1,700 civilian personnel at Davis-Monthan AFB.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "269329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269329", "title": "Dirección de Inteligencia Nacional", "text": "Dirección de Inteligencia Nacional\n\nThe Dirección de Inteligencia Nacional () or DINA was the Chilean secret police in the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet, and has been called Pinochet's Gestapo. The DINA was established in November 1973, as a Chilean Army intelligence unit headed by Colonel Manuel Contreras and vice-director Raúl Iturriaga. It was separated from the army and made an independent administrative unit in June 1974, under the auspices of Decree 521.\n\nThe DINA existed until 1977, after which it was renamed the Central Nacional de Informaciones (CNI) (\"National Information Center\").\n\nIn 2008, the Chilean Army presented a list of 1,097 DINA agents to Judge Alejandro Solís.\n\nUnder decree #521, the DINA had the power to detain any individual so long as there was a declared state of emergency. Such an administrative state characterized nearly the entire length of the Pinochet government. Torture and rape of detainees was common:\n\nAs of September 11, 1973, the military dictatorship worked with DINA to censor channels, newspapers, and radio transmissions that supported the Popular Socialist Union and supporters. A decree by the Junta established that all public information would have to be inspected and revised by the Junta before airing, and a couple days later an \"Office of Censorship\" was created to supervise all media. A lot of newspapers received their work back scribbled out with red ink.\n\nThrough coercion, murder, and kidnappings, television outlets masked the truth on the coup d'état as a plan by the military of Chile. Various international cable news networks were banned by DINA to prevent the news of the forced coup d’etat by the military. Some international networks were convinced to lie by the Junta about social and political aspects of Chile.\n\nThe censorship breached particular homes and public services, and on September 23, 1973, DINA sent policemen to register households and institutions. They searched subversive evidence such as books by Pablo Neruda, articles on social sciences, political science, human rights, and those who were rounded up and burned at the Plaza de Armas (Santiago).\n\nThe United States backed and supported the Fatherland and Liberty which funded and attempted the first coup of Allende’s regime known as Tanquetazo. The CIA established links after the 1973 Chilean coup d'état however ties were cut after The Assassination of Orlando Letelier which former CIA agent Michael Townley was directly tied with which eventually led to the disbanding of The DINA in 1977.\n\nThe DINA was involved in Operation Condor, as well as Operation Colombo. In July 1976, two magazines in Argentina and Brazil appeared and published the names of 119 Chilean leftist opponents, claiming they had been killed in internal disputes unrelated to the Pinochet regime. Both magazines disappeared after this one and only issue. Judge Juan Guzmán Tapia eventually asked Chilean justices to lift Pinochet's immunity in this case, called \"Operation Colombo\", having accumulated evidence that Pinochet had ordered the DINA to plant this disinformation, in order to cover up the \"disappearance\" and murder by the Chilean secret police of those 119 persons. In September 2005, Chile's Supreme Court ordered the lifting of Pinochet's general immunity from prosecutions, with respect to this case.\n\nThe DINA worked with international agents, such as Michael Townley, who assassinated former Chilean minister Orlando Letelier in Washington DC in 1976, as well as General Carlos Prats in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1974.\n\nMichael Townley worked with Eugenio Berríos on producing sarin gas in the 1970s, at a laboratory in a DINA-owned house in the district of Lo Curro, Santiago de Chile. Eugenio Berríos, who was murdered in 1995, was also linked with drug traffickers and agents of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA).\n\nThe overwhelming fear by the Chilean people caused them to support Pinochet and his administration. There are few accounts that are disdainful towards DINA because DINA and other agencies that supported Pinochet repressed and dissolved all accounts against his regime. Some writers and journalists that opposed this right-winged regime secretly interviewed people living under DINA. Writers such as Patricia Politzer, interviewed people that suffered. Politzer writes about specific incidents in Chile.\n\nOne of the accounts is about a mother of a leftist sympathizer who was a victim of forced disappearances in Chile. The mother has never heard nor received any update on her son’s status even after Pinochet was removed from power. Many of those who disappeared or were wrongly murdered were never identified and thousands of leftist sympathizers remain missing. These unsolved disappearances and kidnappings have left thousands searching for their relatives in Chile to this day.\n\nThere was minimal restoration and children suffered greatly as well. In another interview by Politzer, she describes the account of woman who was shot with other leftists and managed to survive. She explains that if she would have died at the hands of DINA, her children would have been left behind with no one to watch them. These accounts reveal the inconsideration of DINA and other agencies that answered to Pinochet. Children would be left behind as orphans. All these accounts in \"Fear in Chile\", by Patricia Politzer captivated and showed what life was like in Chile.\n\nDINA was replaced by the CNI (Central Nacional de Informaciones) in 1977 and Contreras was replaced by general Odlanier Mena. By that time, DINA had reached its military goals: assassinate the Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria (MIR) leadership and the main leaders of the Popular Unity, the coalition of the parties that had won the 1970 elections. The dissolution of the CNI occurred in 1990 during the Chilean transition to democracy.\n\nAfter the fall of Pinochet's regime, Contreras was prosecuted in Chile due to crimes against humanity while heading the DINA and sentenced to 12 years in prison for covert kidnappings, a crime that had not been amnestied. However, judge Víctor Montiglio who had replaced judge Juan Guzmán Tapia gave amnesty to contreras in 2005.\n\nFinally, on June 30, 2008, Contreras was sentenced to two life-sentences, one for the murder of Carlos Prats and one for the murder of his wife, Sofía Cuthbert. He also received an additional 20-year sentence for illicit association.\n\nIn an undated letter to Augusto Pinochet, Michael Townley advised him that Virgilio Paz Romero, an anti-Castro Cuban, was taking photographs of British prisons in Northern Ireland in 1975 as a DINA assignment. The photographs were to be used by the Chilean government at the United Nations in New York to discredit the United Kingdom and accuse it of human rights violations. However they arrived too late to be used, and were finally published in \"El Mercurio\".\n\nBeginning in late 2014, in response to a request by then Senate Armed Services Committee Chair Carl Levin, the William J. Perry Center for Hemispheric Defense Studies, a U.S. Department of Defense institution for defense and security studies in the Western Hemisphere, has been under investigation by the Department of Defense Office of Inspector General. Insider national security whistleblower complaints allege that the Center knowingly protected a WJPC professor who belonged to the DINA during the dictatorship of Captain General Pinochet, as well as the clandestine participation of Center officials in the 2009 Honduran coup, gross mismanagement, corruption, homophobia, racism, and sexism. \"Reports that NDU hired foreign military officers with histories of involvement in human rights abuses, including torture and extra-judicial killings of civilians, are stunning, and they are repulsive,\" said Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont, the author of the \"Leahy Law\" prohibiting U.S. assistance to military units and members of foreign security forces that violate human rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47054153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47054153", "title": "Dylann Roof", "text": "Dylann Roof\n\nDylann Storm Roof (born April 3, 1994) is an American white supremacist and mass murderer convicted for perpetrating the Charleston church shooting on June 17, 2015.\n\nDuring a prayer service at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, Roof killed nine people, all African Americans, including senior pastor and state senator Clementa C. Pinckney, and injured one other person. After several people identified Roof as the main suspect, he became the center of a manhunt that ended the morning after the shooting with his arrest in Shelby, North Carolina. He later confessed that he committed the shooting in hopes of igniting a race war.\n\nThree days after the shooting, a website titled \"The Last Rhodesian\" was discovered and later confirmed by officials to be owned by Roof. The website contained photos of Roof posing with symbols of white supremacy and neo-Nazism, along with a manifesto in which he outlined his views toward blacks, among other peoples. He also claimed in the manifesto to have developed his white supremacist views after reading about the 2012 shooting of Trayvon Martin and black-on-white crime.\n\nOn December 15, 2016, Roof was convicted in federal court of all 33 federal charges (including hate crimes) against him stemming from the shooting; on January 11, 2017, he was sentenced to death for those crimes. On March 31, 2017, Roof agreed to plead guilty in South Carolina state court to all state charges pending against him—nine counts of murder, three counts of attempted murder, and possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony—to avoid a second death sentence. In return, he accepted a sentence of life in prison without parole. On April 10, 2017, Roof was sentenced to nine consecutive sentences of life without parole after formally pleading guilty to state murder charges.\n\nRoof was born in Columbia, South Carolina, to Franklin Bennett (called Bennett) Roof, a carpenter and a construction contractor, and Amelia \"Amy\" Cowles, a bartender. His parents had divorced but were temporarily reconciled at the time of his birth. When Roof was five, his father married Paige Mann (née Hastings) in November 1999; they divorced after ten years of marriage. Roof has two siblings, an older half sister and a younger sister, Morgan Roof. Bennett Roof was allegedly verbally and physically abusive toward Mann. The family mostly lived in South Carolina, though from about 2005 to 2008, they temporarily moved to the Florida Keys. There is no information about Roof attending local schools there.\n\nAccording to a 2009 affidavit filed for Mann's divorce, Roof exhibited \"obsessive compulsive behavior\" as he grew up, obsessing over germs and insisting on having his hair cut in a certain style. When he was in middle school, he exhibited an interest in smoking marijuana, having once been caught spending money on it.\n\nIn nine years, Roof attended at least seven schools in two South Carolina counties, including White Knoll High School in Lexington, in which he repeated the ninth grade, finishing it in another school. He apparently stopped attending classes in 2010 and, according to his family, dropped out of school and spent his time alternating between playing video games and taking drugs, such as Suboxone. He was on the rolls of a local Evangelical Lutheran congregation, but it was unclear if he had recently attended.\n\nPrior to the attack, Roof was living alternately in Bennett's and Cowles' homes in downtown Columbia and Hopkins, respectively, but was mostly raised by his stepmother Mann. For several weeks preceding the attack, Roof had also been occasionally living in the home of an old friend from middle school and the latter's mother, two brothers, and girlfriend. He allegedly spent his time using drugs and getting drunk. He had been working as a landscaper at the behest of his father, but quit the job prior to the shooting.\n\nHis maternal uncle, Carson Cowles, said that he expressed concern about the social withdrawal of his then-nineteen-year-old nephew, because \"he still didn't have a job, a driver's license or anything like that and he just stayed in his room a lot of the time.\" Cowles said he tried to mentor Roof, but was rejected and they drifted apart. According to Mann, Roof cut off all contact with her after her divorce from his father. When his sister planned to be married, he did not respond to her invitation to the event.\n\nA former high school classmate said that despite Roof's racist comments, some of his friends in school were black.\n\nRoof had a prior police record consisting of two arrests, both made in the months preceding the attack. He was investigated on one occasion during this period but without arrest or charge.\n\nOn March 2, 2015, he was questioned about a February 28 incident at the Columbiana Centre in Columbia, in which he entered the mall wearing all-black clothing and asked employees unsettling questions. During the questioning, authorities found a bottle of what was later admitted to be Suboxone, a narcotic that is used for treating either chronic pain or opiate-abuse addictions and that is abused as a recreational drug; Roof was arrested for a misdemeanor charge of drug possession. He was subsequently banned from the Columbiana Centre for a year.\n\nOn March 13, 2015, Roof was investigated for loitering in his parked car near a park in downtown Columbia. He had been recognized by an off-duty police officer who investigated his March 2 questioning; the officer then called a colleague to investigate. A police officer conducted a search of his vehicle and found a forearm grip for an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle and six unloaded magazines, all capable of holding 40 rounds. When asked about it, Roof informed the officer that he wanted to purchase an AR-15, but did not have enough money to do so. He was not charged, as it was not illegal in South Carolina to possess a firearm grip.\n\nOn April 26, 2015, Roof was arrested again for trespassing on the Columbiana Centre mall's grounds in violation of the ban. The ban was then extended for three additional years.\n\nAccording to James Comey, speaking in July 2015, Roof's March arrest was at first written as a felony, which would have required an inquiry into the charge during a firearms background examination. It was legally a misdemeanor charge and was incorrectly written as a felony at first due to a data entry error made by a jail clerk. Despite this, Roof would not have been able to legally purchase firearms under a law that barred \"unlawful user[s] of or addicted to any controlled substance,\" such as the Suboxone, from owning firearms.\n\nOn the evening of June 17, 2015, a mass shooting took place at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston, South Carolina, United States. During a routine Bible study at the church, a white man about 21 years old, later identified as Roof, opened fire with a handgun, killing nine people. Roof was unemployed and living in largely African-American Eastover at the time of the attack.\n\nAccording to a childhood friend, Roof went on a rant about the shooting of Trayvon Martin and the 2015 Baltimore protests that were sparked by the death of Freddie Gray while Gray was in police custody. He also often claimed that \"blacks were taking over the world\". Roof reportedly told friends and neighbors of his plans to kill people, including a plot to attack the College of Charleston, but his claims were not taken seriously.\n\nOne image from his Facebook page showed him wearing a jacket decorated with two obsolete flags used as emblems among American white supremacist movements, those of Rhodesia (present-day Zimbabwe) and apartheid-era South Africa. Another online photo showed Roof sitting on the hood of his car with an ornamental license plate with a Confederate flag on it. According to his roommate, Roof expressed his support of racial segregation in the United States and had intended to start a civil war.\n\nOne of the friends who briefly hid Roof's gun away from him said, \"I don't think the church was his primary target because he told us he was going for the school. But I think he couldn't get into the school because of the security ... so I think he just settled for the church.\" An African-American friend of his said that he never witnessed Roof expressing any racial prejudice, but also said that a week before the shooting, Roof had confided in him that he would commit a shooting at the college.\n\nOn the day he was captured (June 18, 2015), Roof confessed to committing the Charleston attack with the intention of starting a race war, and reportedly told investigators he almost did not go through with his mission because members of the church study group had been so nice to him.\n\nFederal prosecutors said in August 2016 that Roof was \"self-radicalized\" online, instead of adopting his white supremacist ideology \"through his personal associations or experiences with white supremacist groups or individuals or others\".\n\nOn June 20, 2015, a website that had been registered to a \"Dylann Roof\" on February 9, 2015, \"lastrhodesian.com\", was discovered. Though the identity of the domain's owner was intentionally masked the day after it was registered, law enforcement officials confirmed Roof as the owner. The site included a cache of photos of Roof posing with a handgun and a Confederate Battle Flag, as well as with the widely recognized neo-Nazi code numbers 88 (an abbreviation for the salute \"Heil Hitler!\") and 1488, written in sand. Roof was also seen spitting on and burning an American flag. While some photographs seemed to show Roof at home in his room, others were taken on an apparent tour of slavery-related historical sites in North and South Carolina, including Sullivan's Island, the largest slave disembarkation port in North America, four former plantations, two cemeteries (one for white Confederate soldiers, the other for slaves), and the Museum and Library of Confederate History in Greenville. Roof is believed to have taken self-portraits using a timer, and his visits were not remembered by staff members working at the sites.\n\nThe website also contained an unsigned, 2,444-word manifesto apparently authored by Roof, in which he outlined his opinions, all methodically broken into the following sections: \"Blacks\", \"Jews\", \"Hispanics\", \"East Asians\", \"Patriotism\", and \"An Explanation\":\n\nThe manifesto states that its author was \"truly awakened\" by coverage of the shooting of Trayvon Martin:\n\nThe manifesto also mentioned as another source of influence the Northwest Front, a Seattle-based white supremacist organization infamous for its participation in the 1979 Greensboro massacre.\n\nAccording to web server logs, Roof's website was last modified at 4:44 p.m. on June 17, 2015, when Roof noted, \"[A]t the time of writing I am in a great hurry.\"\n\nAccording to court documents filed in August 2016, Roof drafted two other manifestos, one in 2015 and the other in jail, recovered from his vehicle and jail cell respectively. He also made a list of churches and a \"selection of victims\", along with other writings.\n\nRoof personally purchased the gun used in the shooting from a retail gun store in West Columbia, using money given to him on his birthday. \"The Washington Post\" reported on July 10, 2015, that FBI Director James Comey said that Roof \"was able to purchase the gun used in the attack only because of lapses in the FBI's background-check system\".\n\nOne week prior to the shooting, two of his friends tried to hide the gun after Roof claimed he was going to kill people. They returned it to him after the girlfriend of one of the friends, in whose trailer they hid the gun, pointed out he was on probation and needed to have the gun out of his possession.\n\nFBI analysis of Roof's seized cellphone and computer found that he was in online communication with other white supremacists, according to unnamed officials. Although Roof's contacts did not appear to have encouraged the massacre, the investigation was said to have widened to also include other persons of interest.\n\nAlthough the Council of Conservative Citizens took down its website on June 20 in the immediate wake of negative publicity, its president, Earl Holt, stated that the organization was \"hardly responsible\" for Roof's actions. The organization also issued a statement saying that Roof had some \"legitimate grievances\" against black people and that the group's website \"accurately and honestly report[s] black-on-white violent crime\". Harold Covington, the founder of the Northwest Front, also condemned Roof's actions, but called the attack \"a preview of coming attractions\".\n\nThrough analysis of his manifesto, the Southern Poverty Law Center alleged that Roof was a reader and commenter on \"The Daily Stormer\", a white nationalist news website. Its editor Andrew Anglin \"repudiated Roof's crime and publicly disavowed violence, while endorsing many of Roof's views.\" He claimed that while he would have sympathy with a white man shooting criminals, killing innocents including elderly women was \"a completely insane act\".\n\nThe attack was treated as a hate crime by police, and officials from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) were called in to assist in the investigation and manhunt.\n\nAt 10:44 a.m., on the morning after the attack, Roof was captured in a traffic stop in Shelby, North Carolina, approximately from the shooting scene. A .45-caliber pistol was found in the car during the arrest, though it was not immediately clear if it was the same one used in the attack.\n\nPolice received a tip-off from a driver, Debbie Dills, from Gastonia, North Carolina. She recognized Roof driving his car, a black Hyundai Elantra with South Carolina license plates and a three-flag \"Confederate States of America\" bumper decoration, on U.S. Route 74, recalling security camera images taken at the church and distributed to the media. She later recalled, \"I got closer and saw that haircut. I was nervous. I had the worst feeling. Is that him or not him?\" She called her employer, who contacted local police, and then tailed the suspect's car for until she was certain authorities were moving in for an arrest. His older half sister also reported him to the police after seeing his photo on the news.\n\nRoof was arrested and was interrogated by agents of the FBI. He stated that he had been traveling to Nashville, Tennessee, when he was arrested in Shelby. Police in Shelby deferred his questioning to the FBI. An unidentified source said interrogations with Roof after his arrest determined he had been planning the attack for around six months, researched Emanuel AME Church, and targeted it because of its role in African-American history.\n\nOn the evening of June 18, 2015, Roof waived his extradition rights and was flown to Sheriff Al Cannon Detention Center in North Charleston. At the jail, his cell-block neighbor was Michael Slager, the former North Charleston officer charged with first-degree murder in the wake of his shooting of Walter Scott.\n\nDylann Roof is the first person in U.S. history to have faced both a state and federal death penalty at the same time. In September 2015, it was announced Roof would face capital punishment in his state prosecution, and in May 2016, the U.S. Department of Justice announced Roof would face capital punishment in his federal prosecution as well.\n\nOn June 19, 2015, Roof was charged with nine counts of murder and one count of possession of a firearm during the commission of a violent crime. He first appeared in Charleston County court by video conference at a bond hearing later that day. At the hearing, shooting survivors and relatives of five of the victims spoke to Roof directly, saying that they were \"praying for his soul\" and forgave him. Governor Nikki Haley called for prosecutors to seek the death penalty for Roof.\n\nThe judge, Charleston County chief magistrate James \"Skip\" Gosnell Jr., caused controversy at the bond hearing with his statement that, alongside the dead victims and their families, \"there are victims on this young man's side of the family […] Nobody would have ever thrown them into the whirlwind of events that they are being thrown into.\" Gosnell then set a $1 million bond for the weapons possession charge and no bail on the nine counts of murder.\n\nOn July 7, 2015, Roof was indicted on three new charges of attempted murder, one for each person who survived the shooting. A temporary gag order was issued by a judge on July 14 following the appearance of a letter purportedly written by Roof on an online auction site. Seven groups, including news media outlets, families of the slain victims, and church officials, called for easing some restrictions placed by the gag order, particularly 9-1-1 calls. Portions of the gag order were lifted on October 14, allowing for the release of 9-1-1 call transcripts and other documents, but the order remained in place for graphic crime scene photos and videos, as well as audio for the 9-1-1 calls.\n\nOn July 16, 2015, Roof's trial in state court was scheduled by Circuit Court Judge J.C. Nicholson to start on July 11, 2016. On July 20, Roof was ordered to provide handwriting samples to investigators. The order explained that following his arrest in Shelby, notes and lists were found written on his hand and at other locations; that the handwriting samples were needed to determine if the handwriting matched.\n\nOn September 3, state prosecutor Scarlett Wilson said that she intended to seek the death penalty for Roof because more than two people were killed in the shooting and others' lives were put at risk.\n\nOn September 16, Roof said through his attorney that he was willing to plead guilty to the state charges to avoid being sentenced to death.\n\nRoof reappeared in state court on October 23, 2015, before Nicholson.\n\nThe jury selection process for the state trial was initially expected to start in June 2016; jury selection was postponed in November 2016.\n\nIn April 2016, the state trial was delayed to January 17, 2017. It was delayed again in January 2017.\n\nOn April 10, 2017, Roof was sentenced to nine life sentences after pleading guilty to state murder charges.\n\nFive days after the shooting, Attorney General Loretta Lynch announced a grand jury had indicted Roof on 33 federal charges: nine counts of using a firearm to commit murder and 24 civil rights violations (12 hate crime charges under the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Hate Crimes Prevention Act and 12 counts under a second hate-crime statute that prohibits using force or threatening the use of force to obstruct a person's free exercise of religious beliefs), with 18 of the charges carrying the federal death penalty.\n\nOn July 31, 2015, Roof pleaded not guilty to the federal charges against him at the behest of his lawyer David Bruck. Roof wanted to plead guilty, but Bruck stated he was not willing to advise a guilty plea until the government indicated whether it wanted to seek the death penalty, as 18 of the 33 charges could carry the death penalty.\n\nOn May 24, 2016, the Justice Department announced they would seek the death penalty for Roof. As he was already facing the death penalty in South Carolina, Roof became the first person in U.S. history to face both a federal and state death penalty at the same time.\n\nOn June 9, 2016, Roof, through his lawyers, announced that he did not want to be tried by a jury. If the request was granted, the judge presiding over his case would hear the case entirely by himself, determining guilt or innocence and, if Roof is convicted, whether to sentence him to death.\n\nOn August 2, 2016, Roof's lawyers filed a motion arguing that the federal capital punishment laws were unconstitutional. Federal prosecutors filed a response on August 22, asking the judge to reject the motion.\n\nOn August 23, 2016, federal prosecutors filed court documents announcing their intention to call thirteen expert witnesses at trial, including white supremacy experts who were expected to testify on Roof's \"extremist ideology, including a belief in the need to use violence to achieve white supremacy.\" The documents also indicated the presence of extensive incriminating evidence against Roof. A hearing was set for September 1, 2016.\n\nAround August 31, 2016, District Judge Richard Gergel ordered that an \"in camera\" hearing be held on September 1. The judge was to rule on the admissibility of some \"potentially explosive\" evidence. Gergel wrote: \"This instance is one of those rare cases where Defendant's Sixth Amendment right to a fair trial outweighs the public's and the press' First Amendment right of access. ... This is an unusually sensitive period in this proceeding where highly prejudicial publicity could taint the jury pool and make selection of a fair and impartial jury increasingly challenging.\" Two Charleston-area media outlets, \"The Charleston Post and Courier\" and WCBD-TV, unsuccessfully sought to keep the hearing open.\n\nOn September 6, 2016, federal prosecutors filed a motion seeking to bar Roof's attorneys from asking the jurors for mercy during sentencing should he be found guilty of the charges against him. They argue that the defense will already have the opportunity to present evidence that could sway the jury's opinion for sentencing. The next day, prosecutors asked for the use of summary charts as evidence for the trial. One of the charts was expected to be a timeline of the case as drafted by the agent responsible for investigating the shooting.\n\nJury selection started on September 26, 2016. The initial pool of three thousand candidates was narrowed down to the final jury of twelve, plus alternates. The federal trial itself was expected to start late November or early December and last for about two months.\n\nOn November 8, 2016, District Court judge Richard M. Gergel ordered a competency evaluation for Roof, which Gergel scheduled for November 16, 2016. Gergel also postponed the jury selection to November 21, 2016.\n\nOn November 14, 2016, Gergel delayed the competency hearing to November 17, 2016. On November 16, 2016, Gergel delayed the competency hearing to November 21, 2016. Gergel also delayed the jury selection to November 28, 2016. The competency hearing ended November 22, 2016.\n\nOn November 25, 2016, Roof was declared competent to stand trial. Three days later, a federal judge granted Roof's motion for pro se representation.\n\nOn December 4, 2016, Roof, in a handwritten request, asked Gergel to give him back his defense team for the guilt phase of his federal death penalty trial. On December 5, 2016, Gergel allowed Roof to hire back his lawyers for the guilt phase of his trial. On December 6, 2016, a federal judge denied a motion by Roof's defense team to delay Roof's trial.\n\nOn December 7, 2016, Roof's federal trial began. The jury consisted of \"two black women, eight white women, one white man and one black man\". Two days into the trial, Roof's confession was played in court, admitting that he had killed the people at the church before chuckling. On December 15, 2016, after about two hours of deliberation, the jury found Roof guilty on all 33 counts.\n\nAt a court hearing on December 28, 2016, Roof reiterated that he would proceed with the sentencing phase without attorneys, although Judge Gergel repeatedly warned him that it was not in his interests to do so. At the hearing Roof said that he did not plan to call any witnesses or present any evidence at the sentencing phase in order to avoid the death penalty.\n\nOn January 3, 2017, following a lengthy closed-door competency hearing, Judge Gergel denied a motion, submitted under seal by Roof's court-appointed counsel, that sought to have Roof declared incompetent. Gergel wrote: \"After fully considering all of the evidence presented, the court ruled from the bench that Defendant remains competent to stand trial and to self-represent.\"\n\nOn January 10, 2017, the jury recommended the death penalty for Roof, and on January 11, 2017 Judge Gergel sentenced Dylann Roof to death by lethal injection.\n\nUntil April 21, 2017 Roof was located at the Charleston County Jail; on that day federal authorities took custody of him. On April 22, 2017, Roof arrived at USP Terre Haute, the location of the federal death row for men and the federal execution chamber and where all executions by the federal government take place.\n\nOn May 10, 2017, Judge Gergel denied Roof's motion for a new trial. On the same day, Gergel unsealed psychiatric reports from two court-ordered exams of Roof performed by Dr. James Ballenger, a forensic psychiatrist, as well as the transcripts of two competency hearings, all of which found Roof competent to stand trial. The court first ordered a psychiatric exam after Roof wrote a letter to prosecutors referring to his defense attorneys \"the sneakiest group of people I have ever met\" and adamantly rejecting their strategy to portray him as mentally ill.\n\nThe psychiatric report showed that Roof stated of the relatives of his victims that he \"did not identify with them, he didn't care.\" Ballenger concluded that Roof had \"perhaps some Autistic traits\" and meets the criteria for \"Social Anxiety Disorder, probably Generalized Anxiety Disorder, possible Autistic Spectrum Disorder, a Mixed Substance Abuse Disorder, depression by history and a Schizoid Personality Disorder\" but was competent to stand trial. Ballenger wrote that Roof blocked his attorneys from introducing any evidence of autism or other disorders, as well as various delusions, at trial because he did not want \"any issue to take away from the rationale he had for committing his crimes\" because he felt that it would \"his reputation was ruined, ... He continues to feel that the only thing that is important to him is to protect his reputation.\" Roof, who denies having autism, told Ballenger that he \"would rather die\" than rely on autism defense, stating \"it would ruin me\" and \"everybody would think I am a weirdo.\" Ballenger concluded that: \"all of his decisions in the trial are dominated and driven by his primary racial prejudice and wish to preserve that as the sole rationale for his crimes and to protect his long term image and reputation as someone who has no mental illness.\"\n\nOn August 4, 2016, Roof was reportedly beaten by a fellow inmate while detained at the Charleston County Detention Center. Roof, who suffered hits and bruising to the face and body, was not seriously injured, and he was allowed to return to his cell after being examined by jail medical personnel. The inmate was identified as 25-year-old African-American Dwayne Marion Stafford, who was awaiting trial on charges of first-degree assault and strong-arm robbery. Stafford was able to exit his unlocked cell, get through a steel cell door with a narrow vertical window, and go down the stairs into the jail's protective custody unit to reach Roof. At the time of the attack, Roof was alone after two detention officers assigned to be with him left, one being on break and the other called away to do another task.\n\nRoof and his attorney have stated that they do not plan on pressing charges. The night after the attack, eighteen months after his initial arrest, Stafford was released on over $100,000 bond.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32765549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32765549", "title": "Emissions Trading Registry", "text": "Emissions Trading Registry\n\nAn Emissions Trading Registry is a web-based application that records:\n\n\nAn account holder can therefore hold, transfer, cancel or acquire EU Allowances (EUAs) and Kyoto units (e.g. CERs, ERUs, AAUs, RMUs, tCERs and lCERs). Further details regarding each of these unit types can be found in A Guide to Using Kyoto Units in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, available on the Environment Agency’s website. In addition, regulators and nominated competent authorities can manage regulated industries (those with legal emissions reduction targets), and monitor national compliance and performance against international emissions reductions obligations.\n\nComputerised registries are key components of the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) and wider international emissions trading under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’s (UNFCCC's) Kyoto Protocol. Under Directive 2003/87/EC, EU Member States were required to put in place a standardised, electronic national registry from 2005, whilst Parties to the Kyoto Protocol were required to put in place a national registry to allow international emissions trading from 2008. The functional requirements of the Registry are determined by the European Commission (through the Registry Regulations) and the UNFCCC secretariat (through various COP / MOP decisions).\n\nAll national registries are connected directly to the UNFCCC’s International Transaction Log (ITL). This transaction log is responsible for checking all transactions to ensure they adhere to the rules of international emissions trading under the Kyoto Protocol. The ITL also has a link to the EC’s Community Independent Transaction Log (CITL). This transaction log is responsible for checking all transactions to ensure that they adhere to the rules of the EU ETS.\n\n"}
{"id": "51160222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51160222", "title": "Five Country Conference", "text": "Five Country Conference\n\nThe Five Country Conference (FCC) is a conference of the immigration authorities of Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America. The five countries work together to \"enhance the integrity, security and efficiency of their immigration and border services\" including the sharing of certain overseas visa application centres. In 2009, the FCC agreed to a Data-Sharing Protocol which facilitates the sharing of the biometric data of up to 3000 people per year in order to assist with asylum applications.\n\nThe respective authorities are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45457167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45457167", "title": "Forces Goal 2030", "text": "Forces Goal 2030\n\nForces Goal 2030 is a long-term modernisation program for Bangladesh Armed Forces. Its main purpose is expanding the force size, acquiring modern war-machines and providing next level training. The goal also emphasises developing indigenous defence industries.\n\nAs per the plan, Bangladesh Army will be a well-trained, well-armed and technologically advanced force that can defend the country from any conventional and unconventional threats. The Bangladesh Army planned to conduct its activities under three independent corps – Central, Eastern and Western. Three new infantry divisions, the 17th infantry division at Sylhet, 10th infantry division at Ramu in Cox's Bazar and 7th infantry division at Barishal-Patuakhali, have been raised to make the number of total infantry divisions ten. A riverine brigade is being formed at Mithamain of Kishoreganj District. A full-fledged cantonment is being established at Ruma of Bandarban District. Government has a plan to add 97 new units within 2021. Of them, 19 units will be formed for the Sylhet Cantonment, 22 for the Ramu Cantonment and 56 units for the Sheikh Hasina Cantonment in Lebukhali. A Riverine Engineer Battalion is also going to be formed under a proposed cantonment at Mithamoine in Kishorganj. Process of converting some regular infantry battalions into para infantry battalions and mechanized infantry battalions is also going on. To increase special operation capabilities, \"2nd Commando Battalion\" has been raised. This battalion together with the \"1st Commando Battalion\" formed the sole Para-Commando Brigade of the country.\n\nSeveral steps has been taken to modernize the regular infantry outfits. The infantry soldiers are being equipped with modern gear like Night Vision Goggles (NVG), Ballistic helmets, Eye protective gear, Bulletproof vest, person to person communicators, palmtop GPS device and BD-08 assault rifles with Collimator sight. To enhance the anti-tank capabilities, Metis-M missile systems and PF-98 rocket systems were procured. In March 2018, Bangladesh Army issued tender for the procurement of 220 anti-tank weapons. The models shortlisted are Russian RPG-7V2 and Chinese \"Tyoe 69-1\". These weapons will be used at platoon level. A lot of armoured vehicles were procured to strengthen the mechanized infantry units. Around 650 BTR-80 APCs, 50 Otokar Cobra LAVs and several BOV M11 armoured reconnaissance vehicles have been added to the force. Evaluation notice has been published for the procurement of more Light Armoured Vehicles (LAV) in November 2017. In March 2018, Bangladesh Army issued tender for the procurement of 220 anti-tank weapons. In April 2018, a RFI was published for procurement of assault rifles and submachine guns.\n\nThe firepower of artillery units was increased by procuring Nora B-52 K2 self-propelled artillery systems. Two regiment of WS-22 Guided Multiple Rocket Launcher System was also added. SLC-2 weapon locating radar was added to help the artillery firing. Evaluation process of 155mm howitzer has started in September 2017. In November 2017, Bangladesh army started the evaluation process of 122 mm field artillery howitzers. Later on in the same month, the Bangladesh Army published the tender for the procurement of 105mm towed field artillery systems. In April 2018, Bangladesh Army issued RFI notice for the procurement of long range Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS) systems. As per the notice, the MLRS system have to have a range of 120-280 kilometres.\n\nThe Bangladesh Army procured 44 MBT-2000 tanks from China in 2011. Bangladesh army engineers have completed the upgrade of Type 69 tanks to \"Type 69IIG\" standard. Upgradation process of 174 Type 59 tanks to Type 59G Durjoy standard is currently going on. In September 2017, Bangladesh army started the light tank procurement process by floating tender notice.\n\nTwo regiments of FM 90C short range surface to air missile were added in 2016 to enhance air defence capabilities. In 2017, two Oerlikon GDF 009 anti aircraft gun systems have been procured with Skyguard fire control radar. In MArch 2018, a tender was floated for two local warning radars. The models shortlisted for the tender are Ground Master 400 of Thales, \"TRML 3D/32\" of Hensoldt and \"KRONOS Land\" of Leonardo. In the same month, another tender was issued for procuring 181 Man-portable air-defense systems. Here, Chinese FN-16, Russian Igla-S and Swedish RBS 70 systems has been shortlisted.\n\nModernizing the army aviation wing is in full swing. Two Eurocopter AS365 Dauphins were put into service in 2012. Six Mil Mi-171Sh helicopters ere procured from Russia in 2016. One C-295 transport aircraft was bought from Spain. Bangladesh Army also procured 36 \"Bramor C4EYE\" battlefield reconnaissance UAV from Slovenia in 2017. These UAVS are rail launched and parachute recovered systems with maximum range of 40 kilometres and endurance of 3 hours. Bangladesh government has adopted a re-structuring plan for the Army aviation group. As per the plan the Army aviation group will be renamed Army aviation. The manpower of the unit will be raised from 204 to 704 personnel. By 2021, the number of aircraft operated by army aviation will be twenty six. The army aviation maintenance workshop with 147 manpower will be re-structured to army aviation engineering workshop with 490 personnel. An aviation directorate will also be formed for the army.\n\nBangladesh army floated a tender for procurement of a \"command ship\" to be made in any Bangladeshi shipyard. The ship will be around 30 meters in length, 8 meters in breadth and an endurance of minimum 15 days. It will have a complement of 15 personnel and a maximum range of 2200 nautical miles with a top speed of 20 knots. The vessel will be used as a floating command centre for riverine and coastal operations. Bangladesh Army signed a contract with Western Marine Shipyard for the supply of two Landing Craft Tanks in 2017. The ships will be 68 metres long and will be able to carry eight tanks. Tender has been issued for procuring two \"Troops Carrier Vessel (TCV)\" in January 2018. The vessels needed to be of 55m length with an endurance of 15 days and able to carry 200 personnel. In the same month, another tender was floated for two Landing craft tanks. These crafts will have to be of 65m to 72m in length and 13.5m to 14m in breadth with an endurance of 15 days. These vessel will have to have the accommodation facilities of 20 officers and 40 soldiers and will be able to carry eight main battle tanks. Both types of ships will be armed with four 14.5mm anti-aircraft machine guns for self-defense. In April 2018, another tender was published for two more LCTs of the same configuration as above.\n\nForces goal 2030 includes plan to make the Bangladesh Navy a well-equipped three dimensional navy that can protect the maritime interests of Bangladesh. Modernization and expansion of the force is going on simultaneously. Bangladesh Navy is setting up a submarine base named BNS Sheikh Hasina, at Pekua in Cox's Bazar. The largest naval base of the country is under construction at Rabanabad in Patuakhali named BNS Sher-e-Bangla. The base will have submarine berthing and aviation facilities. Another full-fledged base, named \"BNS Sheikh Mujib\", is under construction in Khilkhet of Dhaka. The construction works of a fleet headquarters at the Sandwip channel of Chattogram with ship berthing facilities is also going on.\n\nNavy's surface combatants are being increased with the induction of new and refurbished vessels. Two refurbished Chinese Type 053H2 frigates were bought and commissioned in 2014. The US Coast Guard provided two Hamilton class high endurance cutters, now serving as patrol and training frigates. Two Ex-Royal Navy Castle-class patrol vessels were equipped with anti-ship missiles to serve as corvettes. Two Type 056 corvettes were bou ght from China and commissioned in 2016. Two more corvettes of the same class were ordered in July 2015. Chattogram Dry Dock Limited is in talks with different foreign shipbuilders for the constructing six frigates in collaboration with them. Process of procuring two new frigates is also going on.\n\nTo enhance patrolling capacity, Bangladesh acquired two anti-surface warfare capable Durjoy-class LPCs in 2013 from China. Two more Durjoy class vessels with anti-submarine warfare capabilities were built at Khulna Shipyard and commissioned in 2017. Khulna Shipyard also built five Padma-class Patrol Vessels which were commissioned between 2013 and 2014. Government has plan to buy more patrol crafts in future.\n\nTo enhance surveying capacity, BN purchased an Ex-Royal Navy survey ship, commissioned as BNS Anushandhan. Khulna Shipyard is constructing two hydrographic research ships for the Bangladesh Navy. In January 2018, a tender has been floated for the procurement of two coastal survey boats for the navy. The boats will be built in any Bangladeshi shipyard. Several LCUs and LCTs were also built at Khulna Shipyard. Dockyard and Engineering Works Limited constructed two LCTs, finished in 2015. An oil tanker made by Ananda Shipyard was commissioned in 2015. Process of procuring four minesweepers and one sail training ship is going on. Process of procuring submarine rescue ship, logistic ship, ocean tug and floating dock is also going on.\n\nThe Bangladesh Navy inaugurated its aviation wing with the induction of two AgustaWestland AW109 helicopters in 2011. In 2013, two Dornier Do 228 NG maritime patrol aircraft were added to the fleet. Two more Dornier Do 228 NG aircraft were ordered in 2017. These two aircraft will carry \"Seaspray 5000E\" AESA radar. Bangladesh Navy also ordered two AgustaWestland AW159 Wildcat helicopters for anti-ship and anti-submarine roles. In April 2018, BN floated a tender for the procurement of two more helicopters. The helicopters need to have anti-submarine warfare (ASW), anti-surface vessel warfare (ASuW), surface search/ EEZ surveillance, over-the-horizon targeting (OTHT), maritime interdiction and special forces operation, maritime search and rescue (MSAR), medical evacuation (MEDEVAC), casualty evacuation (CASEVAC) and transportation capabilities.\n\nBangladesh Navy attained three-dimensional capabilities with the induction of two refurbished Type 035G Submarines on 12 March 2017. These submarines are being used as training platforms for future submarine procurements.\n\nForces Goal 2030 plans to make the Bangladesh Air Force a technologically advanced, well-trained and well-equipped force that can deter any threat to the Bangladesh airspace. These plans emphasise strengthening both air power and air defence capabilities. To efficiently perform the increasing duties and responsibilities, the air force is being divided into two separate commands: Southern air command and Northern air command. Two new airbases has been already set up - one at Cox's Bazar and another is Bangabandhu airbase at Dhaka. A new air base is being set up under southern command at Barishal to ensure maritime security. The Cox's Bazar air base will be modernized and expanded. A maritime air support operation centre (MASOC) will be set up under southern command. Another air base is under construction at Sylhet. The Air Force is on the process of setting up an advanced fighter pilot training unit named \"105 Advance Jet Training Unit\". The unit will consist of three training squadrons which will provide advanced trainings to the pilots selected for operating the fighter jets.\n\nIn 2013, Bangladesh Air Force procured 16 Chengdu F-7BGI 3.5 generation fighter aircraft from China. These aircraft were bought as a stop-gap measure till the 4th generation fighter procurement matures. Government has issued a tender for the procurement of eight multirole combat aircraft (MRCA) in February 2017. The MRCA will be twin engine jets with electrically scanned array radar, minimum eight hardpoints and a minimum ferry range of 2500 km. They will have to be capable of performing air defence, counter air operations, anti surface and maritime strike missions. In March 2017, BAF has floated tender for the overhauling and upgradation of its MiG-29 fleet. The six MiG-29Bs will have their Radar and fire control system upgraded while two MiG-29UBs will have their opto lase locating station (OLLS) upgraded. Four MiG-29B aircraft will have electrically scanned array radar system preferably the Zhuk ME radar system. To ensure the security of the maritime boundary, government is procuring one squadron of multirole combat aircraft which will be based at Cox's Bazar airbase.\n\nBangladesh has signed a government to government contract with the United Kingdom for the supply of two off-the-shelf C-130J aircraft currently in service with the Royal Air Force. Bangladesh Air Force will be the ninth operator of the aircraft in Asia after the delivery.\n\nThe Bangladesh Air Force procured sixteen Mil Mi-171Sh helicopters from Russia from 2010 to 2016 that can be used for both transport and attack roles., BAF also procured two AgustaWestland AW139 helicopters from Italy for maritime SAR operations. One Mil Mi-171E helicopter was purchased for VIP transport role. In June 2017, Air Force signed a contract for five more Mi-171Sh helicopters.\n\nFrom 2016, 23 new PT-6 Basic trainers with glass cockpit were procured to replace the fleet of old PT-6s. BAF procured nine K-8 Advance jet trainers to complement the fleet of seven L-39s. In 2015, BAF added three Let L-410 Turbolets into a newly formed squadron of Transport trainers. The Air Force also procured 16 Yakovlev Yak-130 Lead-in fighter trainer aircraft from Russia. Two AgustaWestland AW119 Koala helicopters have been procured to enhance helicopter training capabilities.\n\nThe Air Force bought \"JH-16\", YLC-2, YLC-6 and \"JY-11B\" radar systems from China. A Selex RAT-31DL L Band AESA radar was ordered from Leonardo-Finmeccanica of Italy worth approximately US$19 million. In 2011, BAF inducted its first surface-to-air missile system, the FM 90, from China. Till date, two regiments of this system have been procured. In February 2017, BAF has floated a tender for the procurement of one battery of medium range surface to air missile (MRSAM) system consisting of one command vehicle, one search/target designation radar vehicle, one guidance radar vehicle and four missile firing vehicle. Each firing vehicle will have minimum four missiles.\n\nIn December 2017, Bangladesh Air Force floated a tender for the procurement of one Unmanned Aerial System (UAS). The system will consist of 3/4 unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and ground control station (GCS). The UAVs will have a range of 1000 km and an endurance of 15 hours without weapon load and nine hours with weapon load. They will have 2/4 hardpoints with minimum payload requirement of 120 kg.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14739785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14739785", "title": "Forrest Spaulding", "text": "Forrest Spaulding\n\nForrest Brisbin Spaulding (May 4, 1892 – December 9, 1965) was an American librarian. He was named in the \"American Libraries\" article, \"100 of the most important leaders we had in the 20th century\" for his contribution to intellectual freedom in writing the Library Bill of Rights. He was a humanitarian who is remembered not only for his contributions to librarianship, but also for the positive influence he had on the communities in which he lived and worked. In a commentary on the play \"The Not So Quiet Librarian\", by Cynthia Mercati, Humanities Iowa writes that \"Spaulding's words and his life touched everyone who loved not just books but freedom of expression.\" While Forrest Spaulding is remembered for his contributions to librarianship, he began his career as a reporter. The State Library of Iowa biography mentions that while he spent some time as director of Peru's libraries and museums in 1920, \"he was also a correspondent for the Associated Press. He is noted as saying that his 'efforts to report the news from that country gave him a bitter object lesson in censorship.'\"\n\nSpaulding believed in library outreach and frequently organized traveling libraries, often for military groups. During 1916, he worked with the YMCA to create collections to send to soldiers on the Mexican border and while these collections were small in number, Spaulding strove to ensure they were broad in topic and felt the items would all return well-used. He served as director for the Des Moines Public Library from 1917-1919 when he left to pursue other interests, among them the library & museum project in Peru. He then returned to serve as the Director of the Des Moines Library from 1927-1952. He created what became known as \"the waterfront university\" in the basement of the Des Moines Library for unemployed men and others that were struggling during the Depression. He was an early adopter of new technology regarding library outreach and he put library programs on the air via WHO radio in 1928. At the heart of Spaulding's convictions regarding human rights and concerns about the threat of censorship was a belief in the power of the written word and an understanding that all people needed to have free and equal access to information.\n\nIn 1938, as concerns regarding censorship mounted, Spaulding wrote a library bill of rights. He presented it before the Des Moines library board and it was passed by the board as a proclamation that they would not give in to pressures to censor items from their collection. In the State Library of Iowa's biography \"Forrest Spaulding\" it is noted that in 1940 he was challenged regarding his library's copy of Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\". \"Spaulding responded by saying that, 'if more people had read \"Mein Kampf\", some of Hitler's despotism might have been prevented.' He maintained that the danger to the United States was not in knowing all about Hitler, but in not knowing all about him. He said 'we should fear the tendency of small minds in these days of stress.'\" Spaulding's library bill was later adopted by the American Library Association and continues to remain a strong influence to librarianship today. While the Library Bill of Rights was amended several times by the ALA to account for new media and concerns related to age, the original intent remains, which is, to protect people's right to access information and to use the library.\n\nIn the article, \"The Librarian's Commitment to the Bill of Rights\", Berninghausen points out that prior to 1939, censorship did not appear to be a concern for most librarians. He found that \"very few pieces on censorship in libraries appeared in the index to Library Literature before that time. Some of those few articles actually supported censorship.\" Louise Robbins also mentions in \"Censorship and the American Library\" that there was a lack of initial awareness and support stating that only \"7% thought threats to the bill of rights were the most vital problem in libraries today.\" The bill was a focal point for controversy as was the ALA for adopting it. In putting his convictions into writing and bringing them before the ALA for endorsement, Forrest Spaulding took a stand regarding his convictions in an age when it was, in many ways, personally and politically risky to do so. As Dean Shaloup says in his article, \"Do you know Forrest Spaulding?\", \"this is even more admirable when you consider it was World War II-era America, when anyone promoting anything other than apple pie, baseball, target shooting and flag waving were thought of as un-American.\"\n\nAnn Symons, speaker and former librarian, mentions in a reflective essay on librarianship that she is grateful for his efforts not only for the profession but also as a library patron and notes that \"Forrest Spaulding's library was not the library any of us work in today.\" Our society continues to struggle with questions regarding obscenity and controversial ideas. Librarians continue to receive pressure to remove and label items in their collection. Librarians are still occasionally persecuted for standing strong in their convictions to protect the right to read. The ALA's Economic Barriers to Freedom: an interpretation of the Library Bill of Rights begins by stating \"a democracy presupposes an informed citizenry.\" Being able to fully explore all sides of an issue is imperative to forming an educated opinion regarding the issue. In advocating for intellectual freedom in the creation of his bill of rights, Forrest Spaulding gave librarians a platform on which to stand as they work to protect every person’s right to access information.\n"}
{"id": "22028468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22028468", "title": "High Transitional Authority", "text": "High Transitional Authority\n\nThe High Transitional Authority (Malagasy: \"Fitondrana Avon'ny Tetezamita\" (FAT); French: \"Haute Autorité de Transition\" or HAT) was a provisional executive body that came to power in Madagascar following the coup that forced Marc Ravalomanana to leave the country on March 17, 2009 as a result of the 2009 Malagasy protests. It was headed by Andry Rajoelina, who appointed members to the body weeks prior to the handing of executive authority from Ravalomanana to the military, which subsequently gave the authority over to the High Transitional Authority.\n\nThe HAT was primarily dominated by members of Determined Malagasy Youth, Rajoelina's party.\n\nOn September 17, 2011, a \"Roadmap for Ending the Crisis in Madagascar,\" was signed by opposition leaders that was backed by the Southern African Development Community, or SADC. This resolution aimed at creating a stable government once more, and ending the political crisis that endured in Madagascar. The HAT repeatedly rescheduled the general election, which was held on 20 December 2013, following a first round of presidential elections on 25 October. The presidential elections in December were a runoff between Jean Louis Robinson and Hery Rajaonarimampianina, the top two candidates to emerge from the first round of voting in October. The official results of the second round were announced on 7 January 2014 with Rajaonarimampianina proclaimed the victor with nearly 54% of the vote. This election ended the HAT and restored a regular constitutional government in Madagascar.\n\nOn 28 October 2011, Rajoelina announced the selection of a Prime Minister of consensus, Omer Beriziky, who was responsible for forming a new government of consensus intended to facilitate preparations for internationally recognized presidential elections. The Beriziky government includes the following members (party affiliation in parentheses):\n\n\nThe HAT Prime Minister before October 2011 was General Camille Vital. Among the members of his government were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16174844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16174844", "title": "Howland Memorial Prize", "text": "Howland Memorial Prize\n\nThe Henry Howland Memorial Prize at Yale was created in 1915 for a \"citizen of any country in recognition of some achievement of marked distinction in the field of literature or fine arts or the science of government.\" The idealistic quality of the recipient's work is an important factor in his selection.\n\nThe award was established in honor of Henry Elias Howland (1835–1913), a member of the Yale class of 1854, by a donation of $15,000 by his children Charles P. Howland (Yale 1891), Dr. John Howland (Yale 1894), and Frances Howland.\n\nThe prize has generally been awarded every two years; the following is a partial list of recipients:\n\nThere are other Howland Fellowships and Prizes, including the Charles P. Howland Fellowship, at Yale, established in 1947 by Frances L. Howland as a tribute to her brother Charles P. Howland, Class of 1891, and the American Pediatric Society's John Howland Medal honoring another brother, Dr. John Howland, professor of pediatrics at Johns Hopkins Medical School.\n"}
{"id": "35113425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35113425", "title": "Instituto Nacional de Colonização e Reforma Agrária", "text": "Instituto Nacional de Colonização e Reforma Agrária\n\nThe Instituto Nacional de Colonização e Reforma Agrária - INCRA (\"National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform\") is a federal government authority of the public administration of Brazil. INCRA administers the land reform issues.\n\nIts headquarters is at \"Edifício Palácio do Desenvolvimento\" at Brasília, Federal District.\n\n"}
{"id": "44839678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44839678", "title": "Instrumentum regni", "text": "Instrumentum regni\n\nInstrumentum regni (literally, \"instrument of monarchy\", therefore \"of government\") is a Latin phrase perhaps inspired by Tacitus, used to express the exploitation of religion by State or ecclesiastical polity as a means of controlling the masses, or in particular to achieve political and mundane ends.\n\nThe concept expressed by the phrase has undergone various forms and has been taken up by several writers and philosophers throughout history. Among these Polybius, Lucretius, Machiavelli, Montesquieu, Vittorio Alfieri and Giacomo Leopardi.\n\nAmong these the oldest was undoubtedly the Greek historian Polybius, who in his \"Histories\" says:\nIn the Renaissance the concept was taken up by Niccolò Machiavelli in his \"The Prince\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1695754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695754", "title": "Intelink", "text": "Intelink\n\nIntelink is a group of secure intranets used by the United States Intelligence Community. The first Intelink network was established in 1994 to take advantage of Internet technologies (though not connected to the public Internet) and services to promote intelligence dissemination and business workflow. Since then it has become an essential capability for the US intelligence community and its partners to share information, collaborate across agencies, and conduct business. \"Intelink\" refers to the web environment on protected top secret, secret, and unclassified networks. One of the key features of Intelink is Intellipedia, an online system for collaborative data sharing based on MediaWiki. Intelink uses WordPress as the basis of its blogging service.\n\nIntelink-U (Intelink-SBU) is a sensitive but unclassified (SBU) variant of Intelink which was established for use by U.S. federal organizations and properly vetted state, tribal, and local officials so sensitive information and open source intelligence could be shared amongst a secure community of interest. Intelink-U was formerly known as the Open Source Information System (OSIS). Intelink-U operates on the DNI-U network.\n\nIntelink-S (Intelink-Secret or Intelink-SIPRNet) is the secret-level variant of Intelink which is primarily used by the U.S. Departments of Defense, State, and Justice. Intelink-S operates on SIPRNet.\n\nIntelink-TS (Intelink-SCI) is the Intelligence Community's Intelink which facilitates sharing intelligence products up to the Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) level. Intelink-TS operates on JWICS.\n\nIntelink-P (Intelink-PolicyNet) is run by the Central Intelligence Agency as CIA's sole-source link to the White House and other high-level, intelligence consumers. Today, Intelink-P is more commonly referred to as CapNet.\n\nIntelink-C (Intelink-Commonwealth) links the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia intelligence communities at the TS/SCI level. Today, Intelink-C is more commonly referred to by its network name of STONEGHOST.\n\nIn 1999 Fredrick Thomas Martin wrote a book about Intelink, titled \"How U.S. Intelligence Built INTELINK, The World's Largest, Most Secure Network\". It claims to be an inside look at the U.S. intelligence community's worldwide, super-secure intranet, and the never-before-published story of Intelink.\n\nIn the novel \"Rogue Warrior: Task Force Blue\" by Richard Marcinko, the protagonist uses Intelink, during his mission countering domestic terrorism in the United States, and his assassination of a Ross Perot-like character, who is the architect of a domestic terror network.\n\nIn the novel \"Threat Vector\" by Tom Clancy, one of the characters found an exploit in the Microsoft's Remote Desktop Protocol that allowed him to penetrate the networks of a United States defense contractor and exploit that penetration to access Intelink-TS.\n\nIntelink itself is also mentioned in several novels written by Andy Mcnab, in particular \"Crisis Four\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42689036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42689036", "title": "Jewish Women's Collaborative International Fund", "text": "Jewish Women's Collaborative International Fund\n\nJewish Women's Collaborative International Fund is a non-profit organization that promotes women's rights and gender equality. Its member organizations include Jewish Women's organizations in the United States and Israel.\n\nAn unprecedented program entitled \"Bringing Women to the Fore: The Feminist Partnership\" is coordinated through the Jewish Women's Collaborative International Fund and to \"lead effective change in social perception and public policy, to promote equality and reduce gender gaps in the economic, social and occupational spheres – making Israel a more gender-equal society.\" Organizations to affect change include Adva Center, Women's Spirit, Itach-Maaki: Women Lawyers for Social Justice, Mahut Center, The Israel Women's Network (IWN), Economic Empowerment for Women (EEW), and Achoti (Sister) for Women in Israel.\n\nFourteen member organizations in the United States and three member organizations in Israel include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9094637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9094637", "title": "Laws on crossbows", "text": "Laws on crossbows\n\nThe crossbow often has a complicated legal status due to its potential use for lethal purposes, and its similarities with both firearms and other archery weapons. The crossbow is, for technical purposes, often categorized as a firearm by various legal jurisdictions, despite the fact that no combustion is required to propel the projectile.\n\nThis is a list of laws concerning crossbows by country.\n\nCrossbows are not considered firearms in the United States.\n\nIn some nations, such as Canada and the United States, crossbows are not subject to any specific regulation, in most there are laws, which differ widely. Each jurisdiction has its own definition of a crossbow, and in some cases pistol-sized crossbows are treated differently. There may be minimum ages for possession, and sales of both crossbows and bolts may be restricted. Specific rules around hunting use are also common. \n\nSome jurisdictions require permits and background checks similar to those required for firearms.\n\nPistol crossbows are strictly controlled in all Australian states due to their concealable nature. Crossbows can be bought and owned by adults over 18 years of age, while in most states crossbows can only be owned with a special licence, for instance for members of an official sporting club. Control on transport of crossbows between states has increased to prevent unauthorised use of imported crossbows.\n\nRecent changes to laws in Western Australia to prohibit crossbow ownership require applications to legally possess a crossbow by July 2, 2011 before they became illegal to possess and sporting usage is only legal for people currently participating in the sport at the date of the laws introduction and does not apply to or allow for new participants thereafter.\nIn Bulgaria crossbows are not regulated, but their use for fishing and hunting is explicitly prohibited.\n\nIn Canada, it is legal to own a crossbow and has a similar designation as an airgun. Weapons of a projectile velocity under 500 FPS may be owned by any person 18 years of age or older. No licence is required to purchase a crossbow. Though older PAL cards say that one is allowed to acquire one, the laws designating them as firearms were struck down before they could be implemented. Crossbows designed to be fired with one hand and crossbows measuring less than 500 mm in length are prohibited.\n\nHunting in Canada is regulated at the provincial level, therefore the legality of crossbow hunting vary from province to province.\n\nCrossbows and other mechanical weapons with drawing force under 150N are not regulated. Mechanical weapons above this limit are class D weapons, which means they can be used or owned by person at least 18 years (no license is required), must not be worn visibly, can be used at private places (where is no danger to health or property) and at licensed shooting ranges and at visibly marked places over-sighted by a designated person.\n\nIn Denmark, the creation or import of crossbows without a license is prohibited by Danish law on weapons (Våbenloven - Bekendtgørelse af lov om våben og eksplosivstoffer), and crossbows are not recognized as legal weapons for hunting.\n\nIn Finland, crossbows are banned in hunting. Possession of crossbows and other bows requires no licence. In other legal aspects the crossbow is parallel to an air gun.\n\nIn German law on weapons, crossbows and firearms are equated in their legal status as weapons (WaffG Anlage 1 1.2.2), but in contrast to guns, acquisition, possession, trade or production of crossbows requires no license (WaffG Anlage 2). Because of their definition as weapons, but without further restrictions, any crossbows can be used by minors under custody of competent adults. Fishing and hunting with crossbows is prohibited. As a specialty to be noted is that, crossbows do not shoot as per legal definition in Germany, since they don't use expanding gases or similar mechanisms to propel a projectile.\n\nIn the Netherlands crossbows are regulated by the \"wet weapons en munitie\" (law on weapons and ammunition). Crossbows and crossbow bolts are placed in category 4, along with bows, swords, spears, etc. It is legal to possess weapons from this category providing that the individual is over 18. It is not allowed to carry those weapons in public. When transporting, the weapon should be packaged in a way that one has to perform at least 3 actions before the weapon is ready for use (this does not include the steps required to actually load and fire the weapon). Only on special occasions such as re-enactment events this is not strictly enforced. Crossbows should be used only for collecting, re-enactment or sportive purposes. Hunting with crossbows (or bows) is strictly prohibited in the Netherlands under animal cruelty laws.\n\nIn Norway, crossbows are considered equivalent to firearms, and possession requires a license (Innførsel og utførsel av våpen, Tollvesenet). Hunting with crossbows is not allowed.\n\nIn Poland, crossbows are considered a 'dangerous devices' equivalent to firearms, and possession requires a license (Dz.U.2003/52/451). Hunting with crossbows is not allowed (Dz.U.2005/61/548).\n\nIn Sweden, crossbows are considered equivalent to firearms, and possession requires a license. Hunting with crossbows is not allowed. Swedish law dictates that any weapon that stores its energy, i.e., weapons with a firing mechanism, that produces more than 10 joules at the muzzle are illegal without licence. Thus very weak crossbows are sold in toy stores as well as low powered air rifles (not sold to minors). Sale or possession of normal bows of any strength are regulated in the same way as the previously mentioned weak crossbows and air rifles.\n\nNo licence or registration is required to own a crossbow in the United Kingdom. Under the Crossbows Act 1987, crossbows cannot be bought or sold in England, Wales or Scotland by or to those under 18. Possession is also prohibited by those under 18 years old except under adult supervision. The act states that crossbows may be used by persons under 18 years of age only when supervised by a person aged 21 years old or over. Similar prohibitions for Northern Ireland are made in the Crossbows (Northern Ireland) Order 1988. Section 5 of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 prevents their use for hunting birds. In Scotland, section 50 of the Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 makes it illegal to be drunk in a public place in possession of a crossbow.\n\nSection 44 of the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 raised the age limit from 17 to 18 in England and Wales, with effect from 1 October 2007. The Scottish Parliament made similar changes in section 62 of the Custodial Sentences and Weapons (Scotland) Act 2007, also with effect from 1 October 2007.\n\nIt is legal to own a crossbow. Rules regarding hunting with crossbow vary by state. (Laws By State)\n\nMichigan\n\nAny licensed hunter who has obtained a free crossbow stamp can hunt with a crossbow during any season in which a firearm is allowed, for both big and small game, except hunters in the Upper Peninsula may not use a crossbow or a modified bow during the Dec. 1 - Jan. 1 late archery deer season and Dec. 7-16 muzzleloader deer season, unless the hunter is disabled and has a crossbow permit or special permit to take game with a modified bow.\nAny licensed hunter may use a crossbow throughout the archery deer season in the Lower Peninsula (Oct. 1 - Nov. 14 and Dec. 1 - Jan. 1) and during the early archery deer season in the Upper Peninsula (Oct. 1 - Nov. 14). Crossbow use is not allowed in the Red Oak Unit during the archery-only bear season (Oct. 5-11) except for certified hunters with a disability.\nThe DNR may issue a crossbow permit or a special permit to take game with a modified bow to a person with a valid hunting license to take a deer during an open deer season, if the person is certified as having permanent or temporary disability, as defined in Wildlife Conservation Order 5.95, which renders a person unable to use conventional archery equipment. Hunters may use a modified bow where crossbows are legal. A modified bow is a bow, other than a crossbow, that has been physically altered so that it may be held, aimed and shot with one arm. When hunting deer, bear, elk and turkey, crossbow hunters must use only arrows, bolts and quarrels with a broadhead hunting type of point not less than 7/8 of an inch wide with a minimum of 14 inches in length. See Hunter Orange Clothing Requirements.\nThis was taken from https://www.michigan.gov/dnr/0,4570,7-153-10366_37141_37706-31578--,00.html\n\nNew York\n\nHunting with crossbow is legal to hunt game as of August 2014.\n"}
{"id": "30692354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30692354", "title": "Legality Movement", "text": "Legality Movement\n\nThe Legaliteti (; ) were an Albanian royalist and pro-monarchy faction founded in\n1941. It was led by Abaz Kupi.\n\nThe Legaliteti sought the return of King Zog, who had fled the country on the eve of the Italian invasion. The Legaliteti consisted of supporters from mostly the northern mountain tribes, particularly the Mati region.\nThe Legaliteti were anti-communist. Despite being nationalistic, the Legaliteti were\nagainst the Balli Kombëtar as the Balli Kombëtar were the patriots and pro-republic while the Legaliteti were loyalists and royalists. The Balli Kombëtar believed the cession of the Monastery of Saint Naum to Yugoslavia by King Zog to be a criminal act. The Legaliteti believed in the ideas of King Zog and Essad Pasha, while the Balli Kombëtar believed in the ideology from the likes of Naim Frashëri, Avni Rustemi, Fan S. Noli and Luigj Gurakuqi.\n\nThe negative action of the Albanian Communists on the Kosovo issue alienated a significant number of its adherents from that border region. Following November 1943, Abaz Kupi, until the Mukje Agreement, was a member of the Central Council of the NLM, withdrew with others to form the Legaliteti. Kupi was a respected Gheg chieftain who had commanded King Zog's troops in Durrës when the Italians invaded Albania. In the early 1940s, three new political factions emerged within Albania after the Italians were defeated: the Albanian Communists, Balli Kombëtar (National Front), and Legaliteti (Legality). The Allies originally supported the Legaliteti. Being the smallest faction with no significant influence in Albania, the Allies broke aid with the Legaliteti and aided the Yugoslav Partisans, who in turn backed the Albanian communists. In 1945, the Albanian communists assumed control over Albania at the end of World War II. Most Legaliteti members were executed or had escaped to the west.\n\nThe monarchist Legality Movement Party takes its name from the group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5741562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5741562", "title": "Les Intellectuels pour la souveraineté", "text": "Les Intellectuels pour la souveraineté\n\nIt was created on June 21, 1995 by the publication of their manifesto, four months before the second referendum on Quebec sovereignty took place. Among its founding members were politician and constitutional law professor Daniel Turp, Michel Seymour, Jacques-Yvan Morin, Kai Nielsen and others.\n\nIPSO promotes Quebec sovereignty through the publication of works, organization of events (debates, conferences, protests) and participation in political activities. It was part of the Partenaires pour la souveraineté coalition.\n\nThree men and four women, all university professors, have held the IPSO presidency since its foundation:\n\nSince 2008, IPSO is presided by Gilbert Paquette, former Quebec Minister of Science and Technology in the government of René Lévesque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16122946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16122946", "title": "Liferent", "text": "Liferent\n\nLiferent or Life-rent in Scots law is the right to receive for life the benefits of a property or other asset, without the right to dispose of the property or asset. The definition was constructed from the sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "6112354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6112354", "title": "Maltenglish", "text": "Maltenglish\n\nMaltenglish, also known as Manglish, Minglish, Maltese English or Maltingliż, refers to the phenomenon of code-switching between Maltese, a Semitic language, and English, an Indo-European Germanic language.\n\nBoth Maltese and English are official languages in Malta, and about 88% of the Maltese people can speak English as a second language. Various Maltese social groups switch back and forth between the two languages, or macaronically mix lexical aspects of Maltese and English while engaging in informal conversation or writing.\n\nMaltenglish can also refer to English loanwords in the Maltese language.\n\nRecent studies have shown that code-switching is practiced by a third of the population in everyday discourse.\n\nThe most common areas where code-switching occurs is in part of the Northern Harbour District, mainly in the towns of Sliema, St. Julian's, Pembroke, Swieqi, Madliena, San Ġwann and Kappara. These areas are sometimes stereotyped as \"tal-pepé\".\n\nWhile code switching in English sentences is most predominant in the Northern Harbour District, code switching in a Maltese sentence is much more common throughout the country. This is usually because the Maltese word is not so well known or used. Examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45292214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45292214", "title": "Mark C. Suchman", "text": "Mark C. Suchman\n\nMark C. Suchman (born 1960) is an American sociologist, Professor in Sociology at Brown University, known for his work on Institutional theory, and particularly on \"managing legitimacy.\"\n\nSuchman obtained his AB in sociology at Harvard University in 1983 and his MA in sociology in 1985 at Stanford University. At Stanford he also obtained his PhD in sociology in 1994 with the thesis entitled \"On Advice of Counsel: Law Firms and Venture Capital Funds as Information Intermediaries in the Structuration of Silicon Valley\", under the supervision of W. Richard Scott. In addition, he holds a JD from Yale Law School (1989).\n\nSuchman started his academic career as a research assistant under Harrison White at Harvard in 1982. At Stanford from 1985 to 1989, he was a teaching assistant, subsequently, of Morris Zelditch, Ann Swidler, Nancy Tuma and Lawrence Wu. In 1993, he started at the University of Wisconsin–Madison as assistant professor of sociology and law, and was promoted to associate professor in 1998, and full professor in 2003. In 2008, he moved to Brown University, Rhode Island, where he was appointed Professor of Sociology. From 2011 to 2012, he was program director for Social, Human and Organizational Factors and Resources in the National Science Foundation's Division of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure.\n\nSuchman was awarded a National Merit Scholarship in 1979, a Harvard College Scholarship in 1980 and a NSF Graduate Research Fellowship from 1984 to 1988. He was a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Scholar in health policy research at Yale in 1999-2001, and a fellow in residence at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in 2001-03.\n\nHe has chaired the American Sociological Association's Sections on the Sociology of Law (2005-2006) and Organizations, Occupations, and Work (2016-2017), and has served on the Board of Trustees of the Law and Society Association (2005-2008).\n\nIn his article \"Managing Legitimacy: Strategic and Institutional Approaches'\", Suchman defines legitimacy as \"a generalized perception or assumption that the actions of an entity are desirable, proper, appropriate within some socially constructed system of norms, values, beliefs, and definitions.\"\n\nHe later adds to this definition, stating that because legitimacy is socially conferred, legitimacy is independent of individual participants, while dependent upon the collective constituency. In other words, an organization is legitimate when it enjoys public approval, even though the actions of an organization might deviate from particular individual interests.\n\nSuchman states three types of legitimacy: \n\nPragmatic legitimacy relies upon the self-interests of an organizations constituencies, in which the constituency scrutinizes actions and behaviors taken by the organization in order to determine their effects. This is further broken down into three sub-sections: \nSuchman defines exchange legitimacy as the support for organizational policies due to the policy's benefit to the constituencies.\n\nInfluence legitimacy is the support for the organization not due to the benefits that constituencies believe they will receive, but rather due to their belief that the organization will be responsive to their larger interests.\n\nDispositional legitimacy is defined as support for an organization due to the good attributes constituencies believe the organization has, such as trustworthy, decent, or wise. This is due to the fact that people typically personify organizations and characterize them as being autonomous.\n\nMoral legitimacy is dependent upon whether the actions of an organization or institution are judged to be moral. In other words, if the constituency believe the organization is breaking the rules of the political or economic system for immoral reasons, then this can threaten moral legitimacy. Suchman breaks moral legitimacy down into four sub-sections:\nConsequential legitimacy relates to what an organization has accomplished based on criteria that is specific to that organization. Procedural legitimacy can be obtained by an organization by adhering to socially formalized and accepted procedures (e.g. regulatory oversight). In the case of structural legitimacy, people view an organization as legitimate because its structural characteristics allow it to do specific kinds of work.\n\nSuchman refers to this organization as being the \"right organization for the job.\" Lastly, personal legitimacy refers to legitimacy that is derived from the charisma of individual leaders.\n\nCognitive legitimacy is created when an organization pursues goals that society deems to be proper and desirable.\nConstituency support for the organization is not due to self-interest, but rather due to its taken-for-granted character. When an organization has reached this taken-for-granted status, an organization is beyond dissent. While moral and pragmatic legitimacy deal with some form of evaluation, cognitive legitimacy does not. Instead, with cognitive legitimacy society accepts these organizations as being necessary or inevitable.\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "21213502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21213502", "title": "Ministry of Education and Training (Vietnam)", "text": "Ministry of Education and Training (Vietnam)\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Training (MOET, ) is the government ministry responsible for the governance of general/academic education and higher education (training) in Vietnam. Vocational Education is controlled by the Ministry of Labour, Invalids, and Social Affairs (MoLISA). Ministry offices are located in central Ha Noi, on Co Dai Viet street. In the Vietnamese system, MoET is responsible for the 'professional' performance and regulation of educational institutions under it, but not for ownership or finance, except for the major public universities (VNU, Vietnam National University, in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, fall directly under the Prime Minister's office, not MoET). Ownership and administrative/financial responsibility for the bulk of educational institutions, including all school-level general education, falls under Provinces or Districts, which have substantial autonomy on many budgetary decisions under the Vietnamese constitution. Some institutions are also controlled by other central ministries, although mainly at higher education levels (senior secondary and colleges).\n\nThe Ministry maintains provincial-level departments (DoETs, Departments of E&T), under which there are also district offices (BoETs, for Bureau of E&T), and central departments. Central departments of note include:\n\nColleges and universities under the maintenance of the Ministry of Education and Training include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30011459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30011459", "title": "Multiplier uncertainty", "text": "Multiplier uncertainty\n\nIn macroeconomics, multiplier uncertainty is lack of perfect knowledge of the multiplier effect of a particular policy action, such as a monetary or fiscal policy change, upon the intended target of the policy. For example, a fiscal policy maker may have a prediction as to the value of the fiscal multiplier—the ratio of the effect of a government spending change on GDP to the size of the government spending change—but is not likely to know the exact value of this ratio. Similar uncertainty may surround the magnitude of effect of a change in the monetary base or its growth rate upon some target variable, which could be the money supply, the exchange rate, the inflation rate, or GDP.\n\nThere are several policy implications of multiplier uncertainty: (1) If the multiplier uncertainty is uncorrelated with additive uncertainty, its presence causes greater cautiousness to be optimal (the policy tools should be used to a lesser extent). (2) In the presence of multiplier uncertainty, it is no longer redundant to have more policy tools than there are targeted economic variables. (3) Certainty equivalence no longer applies under quadratic loss: optimal policy is not equivalent to a policy of ignoring uncertainty.\n\nFor the simplest possible case, let \"P\" be the size of a policy action (a government spending change, for example), let \"y\" be the value of the target variable (GDP for example), let \"a\" be the policy multiplier, and let \"u\" be an additive term capturing both the linear intercept and all unpredictable components of the determination of \"y\". Both \"a\" and \"u\" are random variables (assumed here for simplicity to be uncorrelated), with respective means E\"a\" and E\"u\" and respective variances formula_1 and formula_2. Then\n\nSuppose the policy maker cares about the expected squared deviation of GDP from a preferred value formula_4; then its loss function \"L\" is quadratic so that the objective function, expected loss, is given by:\n\nwhere the last equality assumes there is no covariance between \"a\" and \"u\". Optimizing with respect to the policy variable \"P\" gives the optimal value \"P\":\n\nHere the last term in the numerator is the gap between the preferred value \"y\" of the target variable and its expected value E\"u\" in the absence of any policy action. If there were no uncertainty about the policy multiplier, formula_1 would be zero, and policy would be chosen so that the contribution of policy (the policy action \"P\" times its known multiplier \"a\") would be to exactly close this gap, so that with the policy action E\"y\" would equal \"y\". However, the optimal policy equation shows that, to the extent that there is multiplier uncertainty (the extent to which formula_8), the magnitude of the optimal policy action is diminished.\n\nThus the basic effect of multiplier uncertainty is to make policy actions more cautious, although this effect can be modified in more complicated models.\n\nThe above analysis of one target variable and one policy tool can readily be extended to multiple targets and tools. In this case a key result is that, unlike in the absence of multiplier uncertainty, it is not superfluous to have more policy tools than targets: with multiplier uncertainty, the more tools are available the lower expected loss can be driven.\n\nThere is a mathematical and conceptual analogy between, on the one hand, policy optimization with multiple policy tools having multiplier uncertainty, and on the other hand, portfolio optimization involving multiple investment choices having rate-of-return uncertainty.\nThe usages of the policy variables correspond to the holdings of the risky assets, and the uncertain policy multipliers correspond to the uncertain rates of return on the assets. In both models, mutual fund theorems apply: under certain conditions, the optimal portfolios of all investors regardless of their preferences, or the optimal policy mixes of all policy makers regardless of their preferences, can be expressed as linear combinations of any two optimal portfolios or optimal policy mixes.\n\nThe above discussion assumed a static world in which policy actions and outcomes for only one moment in time were considered. However, the analysis generalizes to a context of multiple time periods in which both policy actions take place and target variable outcomes matter, and in which time lags in the effects of policy actions exist. In this dynamic stochastic control context with multiplier uncertainty, a key result is that the \"certainty equivalence principle\" does not apply: while in the absence of multiplier uncertainty (that is, with only additive uncertainty) the optimal policy with a quadratic loss function coincides with what would be decided if the uncertainty were ignored, this no longer holds in the presence of multiplier uncertainty.\n"}
{"id": "23936274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23936274", "title": "National Popular Resistance Front", "text": "National Popular Resistance Front\n\nThe National Popular Resistance Front or National People's Resistance Front (Spanish: \"Frente Nacional de Resistencia Popular\", FNRP), frequently referred to as the National Resistance Front, is a wide coalition of Honduran grassroots organisations and political parties and movements that aims to restore elected President Manuel Zelaya and hold a constituent assembly to draw up a new constitution.\n\nThe Front originated as a popular social movement which used massive civil disobedience to support the restoration of Zelaya in replacement of the \"de facto\" President Roberto Micheletti, whose government was perceived as a dictatorship in existence since 28 June 2009, the 2009 Honduran coup d'état. The National Resistance Front pointed to Article 3 of the 1982 Constitution as a legal basis for opposing the \"de facto\" government, and argued that it constituted the organised expression of Hondurans' right, under that article, to resist a government imposed by armed force.\n\nAfter the 2009 general election saw Porfirio Lobo Sosa elected President, the FNRP continued to press for a constituent assembly, and to oppose the government's human rights abuses. Human Rights Watch reported in July 2010 that under Lobo Sosa \"at least eight journalists and ten members of the National Popular Resistance Front (FNRP)\" had been killed. By August 2010 the FNRP had collected half of its target of 1.2m signatures in support of a constituent assembly.\n\nThe Front was originally known by a number of variants of its name – \"National Resistance Front against the Coup d'État in Honduras\" (\"Frente Nacional contra el Golpe de Estado en Honduras\", \"Frente Nacional de Resistencia Contra el Golpe de Estado\" - FNGE) or simply the \"National Resistance Front\" (\"Frente Nacional de la Resistencia\").\n\nThe Front is a wide coalition of workers' organisations, campesinos' organisations and other grassroots organisations, together with centrist/left-wing political parties and movements that have stated their opposition to the 2009 Honduran coup d'état. The FNRP supports a referendum process that should lead to a national constituent assembly.\n\nFrequent public statements regarding the political and human rights situation since the coup d'état occurred are made by the National Resistance Front and redistributed by many of the participating or supporting groups, e.g. the women's rights group \"Centro de Derechos de Mujeres de Tegucigalpa\".\n\nIn response to the San José mediation meeting in Costa Rica, the National Resistance Front stated its opposition to immunity for those who had carried out the coup d'état. It also said that it \"supports the continuation of referendum processes, which will eventually lead to the convocation of a national Constituent Assembly and the prior definition of the criteria and requirements for the prospective assembly members.\"\n\nIn early August 2009, the National Resistance Front organised a converging national march, composed of many individual marches from different parts of Honduras, with convergence in San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa on 11 August. As of 9 August, about five thousand marchers who had left Colón and Atlántida on 4 August arrived in El Progreso, Yoro, the town from which \"de facto\" President Roberto Micheletti originates. About eight thousand marchers from the Ocotepeque, Lempira, Copán and Santa Bárbara departments were expected to join with these marchers in San Pedro Sula on 11 August. Thousands of other marchers were expected for the Tegucigalpa convergence. The marchers declared their aims to be the restoration of elected President Manuel Zelaya and the establishment of a constituent assembly.\n\nAlso in August 2009, TeleSUR blamed the \"paralysis\" of the major sectors of the Honduran economy to the existence of the National Resistance Front. The paralyzed sectors included health, education, and electricity services, not to mention the closing of the four main Honduran airports.\n\nTwo of the leaders of the National Resistance Front, Juan Barahona and , were briefly detained and later released by police during a demonstration against the coup d'état on 31 July 2009.\n\nOver 30 members of the National Resistance Front have allegedly been killed since Zelaya's ouster on June 28, 2009. The first alleged death occurred on July 5, 2009 at the Toncontin Airport, when 19-year-old Isis Obed Murillo was shot and killed by the military. Over 4,000 have been allegedly detained. Some have allegedly disappeared and have not been found. One teacher disappeared after a union meeting with witnesses who said he was captured by the police. His body later appeared covered in cuts in a field. Several alleged killings took place in the middle of the night, including that of union leader and Democratic Unification Party member Roger Bados. A number of people have allegedly suffered injuries from police and military beatings and have been poisoned by tear-gassing. Some organizations around the world have warned that the human rights situation in Honduras continues to rapidly deteriorate.\n\nUnder the presidency of Porfirio Lobo Sosa, human rights in Honduras have continued to suffer. According to Human Rights Watch in July 2010, \"at least eight journalists and ten members of the National Popular Resistance Front (FNRP) ... have been killed since President Lobo assumed power on January 27, 2010.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53240790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53240790", "title": "Nellie Robinson", "text": "Nellie Robinson\n\nDame Nellie Robinson, DC, MBE (1880-1972) was an Antiguan teacher and school founder who was a pioneer in education. She broke down color and class barriers believing all children should have access to learning. As of 2017, she was the only woman to have received the Order of the National Hero from the government of Antigua and Barbuda.\n\nGeorgiana Ellen Robinson was born on 7 December 1880 in St. John’s on the island of Antigua in the West Indies to Margaret and George Robinson. As the second of eight children, she was raised in the family home on Newgate Street in St John's, until the age of around ten, when she was sent to the United States to study in the American school system. By age thirteen, she was acting as a household helper and nanny and the following year, she returned to Antigua. To further her education, Robinson enrolled in Coke Memorial College. Though it was a Methodist school and Robinson was Anglican, Coke allowed students of African heritage, which the elite Anglican schools prohibited, unless the children were of the elite upper class. The school was only operational for about a decade due to the lack of funding available, since the government only provided funds for the Anglican schools. When Coke closed, Robinson pursued education on her own, studying for her Senior Cambridge examination with Mr. D. S. B, Jones. She passed her examination and furthered her studies, obtaining certificates in music and music theory with Mrs. Lamond (née Tull).\n\nWhen Robinson completed her schooling, she was determined to improve the educational opportunities of black students. Her brother, Thomas Oliver Robinson, suggested she found a school herself. She did so, and named it in remembrance him, as he had recently died of typhoid fever. In 1898, when she was eighteen, Robinson opened the Thomas Oliver Robinson Memorial School (most often known as TOR or TOR Memorial) for children of all races, classes, and faiths—her doors were open to anyone desiring to improve their education and life. In a pioneering move for the time, Robinson admitted illegitimate children and lobbied for the change of official practice barring illegitimate children from secondary school. She established the first coeducational secondary school on the island, successfully challenging the officials which tried to close her school by claiming the teachers were unqualified and that the conditions were unsanitary.\n\nIn the beginning, most of her students were mulattos because most blacks could not afford schooling. Only forty years had lapsed since slavery was abolished and British colonialism imposed class and race inequalities upon people of non-white backgrounds. As soon as she was financially able to do so, Robinson began funding scholarships for poor, black children. TOR Memorial students were encouraged in both intellectual and artistic pursuits, and the school staged entertainment such as musicals and operettas. As the reputation of the school became known, enrollment increased and soon Robinson's classes represented the social spectrum of the country. Sir Ernest Bickham Sweet-Escott recommended that Robinson be given a grant to further the school's educational aims.\n\nIn 1912, Robinson served on the Water Preservation Committee, formed to expand the access to piped water in the country. In 1915, during World War I, Robinson was the only black woman to serve on the Antiguan Mobilization Committee. Robinson recruited men to travel to Canada or Britain to enlist, but also lobbied for improvements in the living conditions for men being shipped overseas for service. She was one of the people who helped establish The Girl Guides Association of Antigua and Barbuda and served as a committee member of the association. In 1935, she was given a commemorative medal at the Silver Jubilee of King George V in recognition of her contributions to education and in 1941 she was honored as a Member of Order of the British Empire. \n\nIn 1950, after having served over sixty years as headmistress of TOR Memorial, Robinson retired, leaving the running of the school to Ina Loving. She continued to be active, encouraging participation in cultural activities and in the 1950s supported the development of Antigua Carnival.\n\nRobinson died on 29 April 1972 in St. John's and was buried at the St John’s Public Cemetery. Her funeral was attended by the Governor-General Sir Wilfred Jacobs and the Premier George Walter. In 1999, a panel organized by the Professional Organization of Women in Antigua reviewing outstanding contributions from women in Antigua and Barbuda, named Robinson as the Outstanding Woman of the Century. In 2006, at the celebrations for Antigua's twenty-fifth independence anniversary, she was named a Dame Companion of the Order of the National Heroes. A decade after she was honored, she is the only woman to be declared a national hero and is recognized, along the other designees with an annual wreathe–laying on their graves.\n\n"}
{"id": "29969351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29969351", "title": "Political scandals in Logan County, West Virginia", "text": "Political scandals in Logan County, West Virginia\n\nLogan County, West Virginia has a long and colorful history of political scandal and corruption.\n\nLogan County, where some of the combatants in the Hatfield-McCoy feud were tried and hanged, has been notorious for over a century for political machines that control virtually all aspects of elected office. Allies of candidate John F. Kennedy once famously asked local political boss Raymond Chafin how much money he wanted so that Kennedy could carry Southern West Virginia in the 1960 Presidential Election, and Chafin replied \"thirty five,\" meaning $3500. Kennedy's men returned with a suitcase full of $35,000, making it one of the more famous instances of miscommunication in the greasing of political palms in Logan history.\n\nDuring the 2004 election season in the town of Logan, West Virginia, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), in a controversial move, had four-term mayor Thomas Esposito run for the West Virginia House of Delegates in order to ferret out corruption in Logan County politics. Officials in neighboring Lincoln County, West Virginia were also charged\n\nEsposito was a prominent criminal defense attorney and four-term Mayor of Logan who was directed to buy votes by the FBI and implicate as many local politicians as possible in a Federal probe directed by Assistant U.S. Attorney R. Booth Goodwin II. In the end, Esposito was directed to pull out of the race before the general election and pleaded guilty to a single charge of misprision of a felony, putatively for bribing Logan County, West Virginia magistrate, Danny Wells, who himself received a nearly eight-year Federal sentence for his own bribery and extortion charges. Esposito himself was merely disbarred and served two years of probation. He is considered to have bribed Wells by paying off his $6500 bar tab.\n\nOther public figures were charged with federal crimes and forced to resign. The following men were implicated in the sting:\n\n\nAlthough Esposito was a sham candidate controlled by the Federal Government, he received 2,175 votes in his faked bid to be elected to the 19th District of West Virginia's House of Delegates. Greg Campbell, Perry Harvey's attorney, argued unsuccessfully before District Judge David A. Faber that Esposito's faked campaign interfered with an election and disenfranchised everyone voting for him. Judge Faber took thirty minutes to decide that the votes were irrelevant.\n"}
{"id": "29389369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29389369", "title": "President of the Council of State", "text": "President of the Council of State\n\nThe official title President of the Council of State, or Chairman of the Council of State is used to describe the head of the states of Cuba, and formerly communist states in the East Germany, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Cambodia and Vietnam.\n\n"}
{"id": "2342990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2342990", "title": "Social Contract (Ontario)", "text": "Social Contract (Ontario)\n\nThe Social Contract was a 1993 initiative of the provincial Ontario New Democratic Party government of Bob Rae to impose austerity measures on civil service. The plan imposed a wage freeze and mandatory unpaid days of leave for civil servants, which became known as Rae Days.\n\nOntario in the 1990s was in the worst economic recession since the Great Depression, with a 1993 deficit of $12 billion annually.\n\nRae requested $2 billion in wage cuts within the civil service, and asked the public sector unions to work together with the government to implement the cuts. When Ontario's two largest unions, the Ontario Public Service Employees Union (OPSEU) and the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE), both boycotted the talks, the government decided to enact the initiative unilaterally.\n\nThe initiative was mainly based around a forced twelve days of unpaid leave for all civil service workers, including (but not limited to) teachers, nurses, and accountants. The unpaid days off quickly became known as \"Rae Days\" and are probably the best known aspect of the policy. The measure excluded workers who earned less than $30,000 annually.\n\nThe Social Contract also re-opened collective bargaining agreements of all public unions, and froze the wages of all civil workers.\n\nThe Rae Days were successful in their original aims. The government saved $1.95 billion, and prevented public employee layoffs.\n\nThe initiative was incredibly unpopular, however, and the labour-allied NDP lost a majority of its union support, including Buzz Hargrove and the Canadian Auto Workers Union. Support for the provincial party fell to 6 per cent and contributed greatly to the decimation of the federal NDP in the 1993 federal election. The provincial NDP never recovered their past support by the time the 1995 election came around; the Liberal Party was initially the main beneficiary of the opposition to the Social Contract, but, ultimately, it was the Progressive Conservatives that won the election. In that campaign, the NDP was reduced from a majority to a third party, a position from which they were not able to recover from until the 2018 election. \n\nThe Social Contract affected Rae during his 2006 run for leadership of the Liberal Party of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "42795106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42795106", "title": "Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991", "text": "Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991\n\nSoviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991, , was chartered to amend the Arms Export Control Act enacting the transfer of Soviet military armaments and ordnances to NATO marking the conclusion of the Cold War. The Act sanctions the Soviet nuclear arsenal displacement shall be in conjunction with the implementation of the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe.\n\nThe United States legislation was passed by the 102nd Congress and enacted by U.S. President George H.W. Bush on December 12, 1991.\n\nThe Act was penned as four titles with the principal titles as \"Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty Implementation Act of 1991\" and \"Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "199361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199361", "title": "State Protection Authority", "text": "State Protection Authority\n\nThe State Protection Authority ( or \"ÁVH\") was the secret police of Hungary from 1945 until 1956. It was conceived as an external appendage of the Soviet Union's secret police forces and gained an indigenous reputation for brutality during a series of purges beginning in 1948, intensifying in 1949 and ending in 1953. In 1953 Joseph Stalin died, and Imre Nagy (a moderate reformer) was appointed Prime Minister of Hungary. Under Nagy's first government from 1953 to 1955, the ÁVH was gradually reined in.\n\nThis is a summary of the organisations acting as political police between 1945 and 1956.\n\nThe subsequent government of János Kádár did not wish to resurrect the ÁVH under this name after 1956 (Kádár was tortured by the ÁVH in the 1950s), yet it flourished in the system of the Ministry of the Interior (Hungarian BM). This should be considered in the light of the use of the Soviet security apparatus directly in Hungary after the 1956 revolution, and in preparation for the trial of Nagy and \"his accomplices\". Between 1956 and 1963 Kádár, a natural opportunist, fought an inner party battle against hardline Stalinists, although he accepted the services of many cruel former AVH torturers. Kádár's victory was signalled in 1963 by a general amnesty for the 1956 revolutionaries, an indication of the absence of a political police. Hungary would go on to be the only Warsaw Pact country without a formal intelligence service, since all intelligence and espionage functions were vested in the AVH, and later the Ministry of Interior.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1952, Peter Gabor (Benjamin Eisenberger) was the absolute leader of the State Protection Authority (Államvédelmi Hatóság), responsible for much cruelty, brutality and many political purges.\n\nWhile the security apparatus was operating, it supported the Hungarian Working People's Party (MDP) directly, with little reference made to Government norms. This support was primarily through the secret gathering of intelligence, largely through a vast network of informants, like the system used by the Ministry for State Security (Stasi) in the German Democratic Republic.\n\nThe investigation network was supplemented with a mechanism of secret arrests, followed by extensive periods of torture (lasting between 3 and 18 months). When the apparatus had extracted confessions of varying quality from a prisoner, the State's system of public procurators and courts would be called in to make a ruling on the sentence. This was the norm of operation for the ÁVH, and was only diverged from in matters of utmost state security; for example, the illegal arrest and indefinite solitary detention of the Communist Party of Great Britain operative Edith Bone. Despite the forced nature of confessions, retractions at trial were not considered a danger to the process, due to the obvious threat of continued torture during a recess of the trial.\n\nÁVH actions were not subject to judicial review. On April 7, 1953, early in the morning, Miksa Domonkos, one of the leaders of the Neologue Jewish community in Budapest was kidnapped by ÁVH officials to extract \"confessions\". Preparations for a show trial started in Budapest in 1953 to prove that Raoul Wallenberg had not been dragged off in 1945 to the Soviet Union but was the victim of cosmopolitan Zionists. For the purposes of this show trial, two more Jewish leaders – Dr. László Benedek and Lajos Stöckler (a leader of Hungary's Neologue Jews) – as well as two would-be \"eyewitnesses\" – Pál Szalai and Károly Szabó – were arrested and interrogated by torture.\n\nThe last people to meet Wallenberg in Budapest were Ottó Fleischmann, Károly Szabó, and Pál Szalai, who were invited to a supper at the Swedish Embassy building in Gyopár street on January 12, 1945. The next day, January 13, Wallenberg contacted the Russians. By 1953, Ottó Fleischmann had left Hungary, working as a physician in Vienna.\n\nOn 8 April 1953, Károly Szabó was captured on the street and arrested without any legal procedure. His family had no news of him throughout the following six months. A secret trial was conducted against him of which no official record is available to date. After six months of interrogation, the defendants were driven to despair and exhaustion.\n\nThe idea that the \"murderers of Wallenberg\" were Budapest Zionists was primarily supported by Hungarian Communist leader Ernő Gerő (a non-Jewish Jew born as Ernő Singer), which is shown by a note sent by him to First Secretary Mátyás Rákosi (another non-Jewish Jew born as Mátyás Rosenberg). The show trial was then initiated in Moscow, following Stalin's anti-Zionist campaign. After the death of Stalin and somewhat later execution of KGB chief Lavrentiy Beria, the preparations for the trial were eventually stopped and the arrested persons were released in fall 1953 under condition that they are not to divulge any part of the arrest. Lajos Stöckler became severely impaired psychologically from torture. Miksa Domonkos spent a week in hospital and died shortly afterwards at home, mainly due to the torture he had been subjected to.\n\nFollowing sentence, political prisoners were imprisoned in ÁVH-run concentration camps. These camps were mixed and varied. Early camps tended to be cruder and more cruel. In particular, the status of ex-party members varied. In camps prior to 1953 they were more harshly treated than other prisoners. After 1953, ex-party members were a virtual aristocracy within prisons. Additionally, prior to 1953 certain camps had as their goal the eventual death of inmates due to overwork and maltreatment. In a number of cases, torture was an essential part of camp life and discipline\n\nImre Nagy's first government from 1953 to 1955 vastly improved conditions in the camps and halted the efforts to exterminate political prisoners\n\nThe ÁVH also assisted the Soviet sphere security apparatus by staging show trials. In two cases, the ÁVH was given the privilege of leading an attack on undesired elements throughout Hungary. In 1948 the Roman Catholic Cardinal József Mindszenty was tried and imprisoned. In 1949, the ÁVH arrested Hungarian Communist Party member László Rajk, who was then tried and executed for nationalism and Titoism in a show trial that signified to the international communist movement that Yugoslavia was now a threat. (László Rajk was the man who had organised the ÁVH.)\n\nDuring the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, elements of the insurgents tracked down and killed both known and suspected ÁVH officers and informants. When the Revolution began, a crowd of some thousand people attacked the police headquarters in Budapest, shouting slogans such as \"tear down the star!\" and \"free the prisoners!\", referring to the enormous red star that stood on the building's roof, a symbol of communism and to the many prisoners kept inside. Fearing for the lives of both himself and his officers, the chief of the police let the crowd into the building, allowing them to take any political prisoners they wanted.\n\nDuring and after the siege of the Hungarian Working People's Party headquarters (in Republic Square, \"Köztársaság tér\"), some members of the ÁVH were lynched, a fact later extensively used in party propaganda to back up the claim that the revolution was of a \"fascistic, anti-Semitic and reactionary\" nature.\n\nAttacks on the ÁVH only became a significant activity as informal truces developed between the student-controlled combat organisations and the Soviet troops in Budapest. Freed from the necessity of immediate combat, the József Dudás militia planned a series of reprisals against ÁVH officers, informants, and on a few occasions against ordinary Communist-party members caught up in the revolution. József Dudás' militia is often considered a far-right group, but others claim he was a communist; either way, his militia's violence is not contested.\n\nOn October 29, in the second week of the revolution, the Dudás militia attacked the headquarters of the secret police in Budapest, massacring the ÁVH inside. This event was well documented by both western and eastern journalists and photographers, and constituted the primary evidence against Imre Nagy and other members of his cabinet in the White Books.\n\nA Western eyewitness said:\n\nAfter Dudás' militia assaulted the building, the surrounding crowd lynched a number of ÁVH officers. Highly visible in photographs of this attack are the party's paybooks displayed on to the corpses, demonstrating that ÁVH soldiers received at least 10 times the wages of a manual worker.\n\nWhen the students' and workers' councils discovered what the Dudás group was doing, they instituted armed patrols to arrest and detain ÁVH members for their own safety, and for future planned trials. As a result of Dudás' massacres, and the students' policy of arrest, many ÁVH voluntarily turned themselves in to students' or workers' councils to seek protective custody. This was a reflection of the shared student-worker policy of keeping the revolution pure and bloodless. Dudás was sought for arrest by the students' and workers' councils.\n\nUnsurprisingly, when the Warsaw Pact intervened in the revolution to support the government, ÁVH officers carried out brutal reprisals against those who had killed their comrades. The ÁVH generally targeted all revolutionaries, and received significant assistance from the Soviet Union's security apparatus, who arrested the Nagy government, General Pál Maléter, and deported thousands of students and workers to the Soviet Union.\n\nShortly after the Arrow Cross Party left it, the building under the address 60 Andrássy Avenue became the ÁVH Headquarters. The building is now a museum called \"The House of Terror\", commemorating the victims of both political systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41435904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41435904", "title": "Stateroom (surveillance program)", "text": "Stateroom (surveillance program)\n\nSTATEROOM is the code name of a highly secretive signals intelligence collection program involving the interception of international radio, telecommunications and internet traffic. It is operated out of the diplomatic missions of the signatories to the UKUSA Agreement and the members of the ECHELON network including Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Canada and the United States.\n\nIn almost a hundred U.S. embassies and consulates worldwide, Stateroom operations are conducted by the Special Collection Service (SCS), a unit that is jointly operated by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the National Security Agency (NSA).\n\nAccording to documents leaked by Edward Snowden, the true mission of Stateroom personnel is generally not revealed to the rest of the diplomatic staff at the facilities where they are assigned.\n\n\nNote: The list of locations in the following section is non-exhaustive, and only includes publicly disclosed information.\n\nThe collection of signals intelligence by Australian embassies and high commissions occurs in capital cities across East Asia and Southeast Asia, namely:\nBangkok (Thailand), Beijing (China), Dili (East Timor), Hanoi (Vietnam), Jakarta (Indonesia), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Port Moresby (Papua New Guinea)\n\nIn the 1980s, surveys were conducted by Canada's CSE agency to pick out Canadian embassies suitable to function as surveillance posts.\n\nAs of 16 March 2015, New Zealand's GCSB agency had a secret listening post, codenamed \"Caprica\", at the New Zealand High Commission in Honiara, the capital of the Solomon Islands. The \"Caprica\" outpost was reportedly modeled after the NSA's Stateroom outposts at selected United States Embassies across the world.\n\nAs of 2013, British embassies and consulates in the following capital cities are known to contain clandestine surveillance facilities:\n\n\nData collected by Britain is sent to a relay facility at RAF Croughton in Northamptonshire, England, before being transmitted to a data center jointly operated by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency and the U.S. National Security Agency in College Park, Maryland.\n\nIn the United States, the U.S. Special Collection Service (SCS) contributes to Stateroom. The SCS is jointly operated by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the National Security Agency (NSA). On 23 November 2013, the Dutch newspaper \"NRC Handelsblad\" released a top secret NSA presentation leaked by Edward Snowden, which shows the presence of SCS operations in numerous U.S. diplomatic missions located in the following cities:\nAthens (Greece), Bangkok (Thailand), Berlin (Germany), Brasília (Brazil), Budapest (Hungary), Frankfurt (Germany), Geneva (Switzerland), Lagos (Nigeria), Milan (Italy), New Delhi (India), Paris (France), Prague (Czech Republic), Vienna (Austria), Zagreb (Croatia).\n\nIn October 2013, reports by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden led to the revelation of the SCS having systematically wiretapped Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel's private cell phone over a period of over 10 years, among other activities to wiretap and systematically record large amounts of European and South American leaders' and citizens' communications.\n\nOther SCS locations include Baku (Azerbaijan), Kiev (Ukraine), Madrid (Spain), Moscow (Russia), Pristina (Kosovo), Rome (Italy), Sarajevo (Bosnia), Tbilisi (Georgia), and Tirana (Albania).\n\nThe existence of Stateroom was revealed in October 2013 by the former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, who initiated the global surveillance disclosure.\n\nDamien Rogers, former senior adviser to the New Zealand intelligence agency Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) said he was surprised to hear that the \"Stateroom\" codeword and location of associated sites are being published in the media, because such revelations would cause \"anxiety and concern\" for the directors of the five intelligence agencies of the UKUSA Agreement. Nicky Hager, a New Zealand investigative journalist who exposed the ECHELON surveillance system, confirmed that such surveillance operations have been conducted by the intelligence agencies of the Five Eyes for quite some time.\n\nA spokesman for Australia's Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade said: \"It is the long-standing practice of Australian governments not to comment on intelligence matters.\" Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott told reporters that \"Every Australian governmental agency, every Australian official at home and abroad operates in accordance with the law, and that's the assurance that I can give people at home and abroad\".\n\nGovernment representatives at CSE declined to comment directly on the leak. A spokeswoman for Canada's Defence Minister Rob Nicholson declined to comment.\n\nHua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China's Foreign Ministry, reacted angrily and demanded that foreign entities and personnel in China \"strictly abide\" by the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and other international treaties.\n\nGerman Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle summoned Britain's Ambassador to Germany, Simon McDonald, to explain and to clarify the presence of Britain's eavesdropping centre in Berlin.\n\nIndonesian Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa protested against the surveillance program, and told the media that \"such action is not only a breach of security, but also a serious violation of diplomatic norms and ethics, and certainly not in tune with the spirit of friendly relations between nations.\"\n\nMalaysia's Minister of Home Affairs, Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, said that Snowden's revelation is a \"sensitive issue since it involves several countries\".\n\nThe Solomon Islands' Chief of Staff, Robert Iroga, said that the New Zealand Government's actions damaged New Zealand's image as a \"friendly government\" in the South Pacific. He added that communications within the inner circle of the Solomons Government was \"highly secret information\" that rightfully belong to the Solomon Islanders. In addition, Iroga accused New Zealand officials of bullying-behavior in trade negotiations and alleged that New Zealand had shared information regarding Taiwanese aid money with China.\n\nThailand's National Security Council asserted that such forms of surveillance are considered to be acts of criminality under the Law of Thailand.\n\n"}
{"id": "9348234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9348234", "title": "United Jewish People's Order", "text": "United Jewish People's Order\n\nThe United Jewish People's Order is a secular radical socialist Jewish cultural, political and educational fraternal organization in Canada. The UJPO traces its history to the founding of the Jewish Labour League Mutual Benefit Society in 1926.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution and the creation of the Communist Party, divisions within the Arbeiter Ring became increasingly bitter. In Toronto, the pro-Bolshevik women withdrew from the Ring in 1923, forming the Jewish Working Women's League (\"Yiddish Arbeiter Froyen Farein\"). When it was clear that control of the organization would stay in the hands of those critical of the Revolution, the men also withdrew and formed the Jewish Labour League Mutual Benefit Society in 1926, which became social and intellectual home for Jewish Communists The Canadian Workers' Circle was similarly formed in Montreal and Winnipeg. The two organizations merged on 4 October 1945 to form the UJPO.. \n\nAt its peak in the 1940s and 1950s, the UJPO had more than 2,500 members nationwide with branches being established in Hamilton and Niagara Falls, Calgary, and Vancouver, among others. The UJPO's leadership included well-known Jewish Communists and pro-Soviet activists, including Sholem Shtern, J. B. Salsberg, Joseph Zuken, Sam Carr, and Fred Rose. The CJPO was active in supporting Jewish settlement in Birobidzhan through the Canadian Biro-Bidjan Committee.\n\nThe Toronto branch of the UJPO was originally housed in the Jewish Workers' Cultural Centre on Brunswick Avenue, just north of Kensington Market, then for many years in its own building on Christie Street, overlooking Christie Pits. UJPO's headquarters in Montreal were in the Morris Winchevsky Cultural Centre on de l'Esplanade Avenue from 1947. UJPO Montreal also operated the Morris Winchevsky Yiddish School on Villeneuve Street West and operated summer camps such as the Nitgedeiget. The UJPO headquarters included, as a unique feature, a second story balcony with a five-foot-tall parapet modelled on balconies in Moscow's Red Square from which Soviet leaders would address the crowd below. \n\nOn January 27, 1950, the group's Montreal headquarters were closed under the Padlock Law, with boxes of seized books, files and organizational material carted away by the Quebec Provincial Police. Following the raid, the building was sold to the Farband, a Labour Zionist organization, which used the building from 1951 until 1968, with the first floor being occupied by Glatt's, a kosher butcher from 1962 until the 2010s. In 1951, the UJPO was expelled from the Canadian Jewish Congress, not to be re-admitted until 1995. \n\nAfter 1955, Sam Carr became active in the UJPO and was elected National Secretary in 1964, a position he would hold until 1986. During the crisis resulting from the release of the Secret Speech in 1956, prominent Party member J. B. Salsberg returned from a trip to the Soviet Union, where he found rampant Party-sponsored antisemitism and suppression of Jewish culture. Salsberg's findings were rejected by the Communist Party (then known as the Labour-Progressive Party) and led to his suspension from its leading bodies. Ultimately, the crisis resulted in the departure of the UJPO, Salsberg, Robert Laxer and most of the Party's Jewish members in 1956.\n\nIn 1959 about one third of the UJPO's membership (including long-time leader J. B. Salsberg) left to start a new organization called the New Fraternal Jewish Association, feeling that the UJPO was not critical enough of the Soviet Union. In the years following World War II, as the Jewish community moved north along Bathurst Street, the UJPO moved in 1960 to its current location at the Winchevsky Centre in the Bathurst and Lawrence area.\n\nIn 2011, the United Jewish Appeal and Canadian Jewish Congress severed their relations with UJPO's Winchevsky Centre in Toronto after the organization hosted a panel discussion featuring anti-Zionist activist and Auschwitz survivor Hajo Meyer, a member of the International Jewish Anti-Zionist Network.\n\nThe UJPO has branches in Winnipeg, Montreal, Vancouver, and Toronto where it operates the Winchevsky Centre, named after the famed Jewish socialist poet Morris Winchevsky. The Toronto branch sponsors several groups including the Morris Winchevsky School which holds classes at the Bathurst Street Community Centre, the Toronto Jewish Folk Choir, and Camp Naivelt, a socialist Jewish camp in Brampton, Ontario. The Vancouver branch published a national progressive Jewish magazine \"Outlook\", and runs a number of cultural and educational activities.\n\nThe Jewish Folk Choir held well attended concerts, several of which included Paul Robeson, featuring Yiddish and Hebrew music. Another contribution to music made, indirectly, by the UJPO was the founding of the folk group The Travellers, which originated at Camp Naivelt in the 1950s. Zal Yanofsky spent his childhood years at Camp Naivelt and would later go on to found the Loving Spoonful with John Sebastian in 1964.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45583925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45583925", "title": "Veneto Yes", "text": "Veneto Yes\n\nVeneto Yes () is a Venetist-separatist political party in Veneto. Its leader is Gianluca Busato.\n\nThe party supports the secession of Veneto from Italy and is the heir of \"Plebiscito.eu\", the committee which organised the 2014 Venetian independence referendum. The day after the referendum, Busato announced that the separatist process generated by the referendum was to be led by Veneto Yes, which would be transformed \"from committee for yes to independence to a political organisation which will defend the results obtained with the declaration of independence\".\n\nThe party participated in the March 2015 unofficial Venetian general election (organised by \"Plebiscito.eu\"), during which it elected a large majority of the deputies, but did not manage to take part to the May 2015 official regional election, due to its inability to file the required number of signatures for its lists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "371654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371654", "title": "Worshipful Company of Cutlers", "text": "Worshipful Company of Cutlers\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Cutlers is one of the ancient Livery Companies of the City of London. It ranks 18th in the order of precedence of the Companies.\n\nThe trade of knife-making and repairing was formed in the thirteenth century as a guild; the Cutlers' Company received a Royal Charter in 1416. The Company, like many other City Livery Companies, no longer has a strong connection with its trade, which for the most part relocated north to Sheffield, where a similar association, the Company of Cutlers in Hallamshire was established. Thus, the Livery Company remains primarily as a charitable institution. The Company funds and administers a variety of educational initiatives such as scholarships and awards.\n\nThe Cutlers' Company Arms have been in use since 1476. Its current Elephant and Castle crest was granted in 1622: this features two elephants and three crossed-swords, a helmet and a smaller elephant and castle. The original heraldic blazon read: \"Shield: \"Gules, three pairs of swords in saltire argent, hilts and pommels, or; Crest: An elephant's head couped gules, armed or\"\". The elephant probably relates to the ivory used to make the hilts and handles of expensive swords and knives. The elephant and castle crest gave rise to a pub of the same name on the site of an old cutlers' inn at Newington, south London which in turn gave its name to the well-known area Elephant and Castle.\n\nThe Company's motto was originally \"Pervenir a bonne foy\", which later became \"Pour parvenir a bonne foy\", an Anglo-Norman phrase meaning \"To succeed through good faith\".\n\nThe Company's livery hall is located on a site in Warwick Lane once occupied by the Royal College of Physicians, near Newgate Street. It was designed by T. Tayler Smith, the Company's surveyor, and was opened in 1888. It is a brick building, the façade decorated with a terracotta frieze depicting the processes of knife-making by the sculptor Benjamin Creswick, who had worked as a knife-grinder in Sheffield.\n\n"}
{"id": "51197994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51197994", "title": "Yonnette Fleming", "text": "Yonnette Fleming\n\nYonnette Fleming is an American urban farmer and community earth steward based in Bedford–Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. She is also a multi-disciplinary artist.\n\nYonnette Fleming is an urban food justice educator for the Hattie Carthan Community Garden Farm in the Bedford-Stuyvesant community in Brooklyn, New York. The Hattie Carthan Farm was started by Hattie Carthan. The Hattie Carthan Community Garden farm is located at Marcy and Lafayette in Brooklyn's Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood. Hattie Carthan founded the Magnolia Tree Earth Center, and the Bedford-Stuyvesant Neighborhood Tree Corps in 1971. She is a community based education initiative organizer. Fleming's approach is holistic and communal. She is a lifelong musician.\n\nOne of the missions of the garden is to bridge the gap between generations to collaborate in the sharing of historical knowledge for sustainable living and health. It is a farm urban community where all ages participate in the development, well-being of the gardens, well-being of the community residents of Bedford-Stuyvesant community in Brooklyn. She facilitates and teaches the Bed-Stuyvesant community to reclaim and cultivate well-being. The garden project is a Bedford-Stuyvesant community revitalization project. The urban farm is an educational food justice farm. Food justice is at the core of what Yonnette Fleming does.\n\nShe is a part of a growing movement of community gardeners and growers and the rise of black farmers.\n\nYonnette was born in Guyana. Her family worked with indigenous communities and grew coconuts, sugar, rice, and other crops. Fleming has worked since 2003 to address food insecurity in Brooklyn's Bedford-Stuyvesant (or \"Bed-Stuy\") neighborhood. While working on Wall Street years ago she joined the community garden. She left her wall street job in 2008 in order to invest herself fully into community, food, and community empowerment. Her grandmother raised chickens in Berbice, Guyana, South America.\n\nYonnette Fleming has been doing urban gardening and farming for over 16 years. She is a project catalyst and vice president of the Hattie Carthan Community Garden farm. She is the main coordinator for the Hattie Carthan Herban Farm and two community food markets. She has worked to address food security and food justice concerns since 2003. She teaches local children and various communities in New York City creative cooking and urban farming at the Hattie Carthan Farm in Brooklyn. She teaches workshops in herbalism and plant medicine. There is also a Hattie Carthan Herban Farm and Apothecary Market. The Herban farm grows and teaches how to use and cook with medicinal herbs. The cooking classes are free. The workshops teach seniors and youth groups. The Hattie Carthan Garden farms have trained youth chefs. She teaches a food justice course for the Farm School in NYC. She is a member of the Farm School's advisory board.\n\nShe is a raphaologist, ordained minister, plant and sound medicine practitioner, reiki master, healing circle facilitator, and herbal Wysewoman.\n\nFleming is an advocate for community based knowledge systems to build healthy individuals, families, and communities. She works on a local level to address food sovereignty and food insecurity issues in the Bedford-Stuyvesant community. The focus is on inter-generational education, the needs of the community, an aging population, and youth development. The Hattie Carthan Urban Agriculture Youth Corp employs and educates local teenagers within the Bedford-Stuyvesant community. She is the founder of the Urban Bush Educator Project. It is a multi-dimensional ancient healing arts project created by Yonnette Fleming. A healing learning framework for community support, healing, and community revitalization. She combines her healing training with farming and gardening. She conducts workshops in re-connecting with nature, herbal healing, drum journey meditations, percussion circles, nature art, aura cleansing, etc. She has been conducting healing workshops for over two decades.\n\nYonnette teaches scent-making and the connection between healing and scents. She is a trained Reiki healing master. She considers herself a \"social change activist.\" She is a Just Food community food educator. Just Food is a nonprofit organization in New York City. As a community food educator she gives cooking demonstrations at green markets in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "26500186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26500186", "title": "Youth in Indian politics", "text": "Youth in Indian politics\n\nMany initiatives were taken in many schools to develop the interest among students to enter Indian politics. The Field of politics is usually a perception that it is not suited to Educated People and this perception is being changed by many school students who take up the idea of politics as their career and help promoting the cause.\n\nIn 2004, 50% of the Indian population was aged 30 years or younger; however, only 35 out of 543 Lok Sabha members (6%) were aged under 35. Nevertheless, the World Values Survey showed that the proportion of people aged 18–24 who identified themselves as \"very\" or \"rather\" interested in politics was around 50, an increase of 15% since 1990.\n\nAll major political parties have youth and student wings, such as Indian Youth Congress, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, and Democratic Youth Federation of India\n\nA campaign by Young India Foundation has been raising awareness on the importance of youth rights and the essential representation they need in a country with over 670 million people below the age of 25. YIF is also leading in the Age of Candidacy campaign which is working on decreasing the age of candidacy in India from 25 to something lower.\n\nAs per a report by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham), of the approximately Rs 4,000-5,000 Crore total advertisement and publicity spend in 2014 Indian Parliament elections, the digital platforms can expect to garner at least Rs 400-500 Crore. The target audience are predictably the youth, many of them first-time voters.\n\n"}
