{"id": "39071020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39071020", "title": "2012 ICT Skype controversy", "text": "2012 ICT Skype controversy\n\nThe 2012 ICT Skype controversy was the leaking of Skype conversations and emails between Mohammed Nizamul Huq, head judge and chairman of Bangladesh's International Crimes Tribunal, and Ahmed Ziauddin, a Bangladeshi lawyer based in Brussels. These conversations took place during the prosecution of the accused for alleged war crimes during the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\", the recordings and emails suggested that the Bangladesh Government pressured and attempted to intervene in the International Crimes Tribunal to speed up proceedings. The neutrality and independence of Huq was called into question, as Ziauddin appeared to help him to prepare documents for the tribunal and made detailed recommendations for Huq. Ziauddin also advised prosecutors, including the chief prosecutor Zaed-al-Malum, and informed Huq about how the prosecutors may develop their cases. This resulted in a connection between the judge, adviser and the prosecution.\n\nThe 17 hours of conversations between 28 August and 20 October 2012 and more than 230 e-mails between September 2011 and September 2012 were disclosed to \"The Economist.\" The Bangladeshi newspaper \"Amar Desh\" also received the conversations, and published a report on 9 December, followed by the transcripts in full. On 13 December, a court injunction banned Bangladeshi newspapers from publishing the materials, at which time \"Amar Desh\" stopped further publication.\n\nOn 11 December 2012, Huq resigned from his position as chairman of ICT-1, citing personal reasons. Despite demands from Jamaat-e-Islami for the Tribunal to be scrapped, the Law Minister Shafique Ahmed said that Huq's resignation would not hamper trial proceedings. On 13 December, Fazle Kabir, then head of the second tribunal (ICT-2), was named as the new chairman. The defendants' applications for retrials were rejected.\n\n\nThe International Crimes Tribunal was set up in Bangladesh in 2009 to prosecute suspects accused of war crimes during the Bangladesh Liberation War. The Awami League had pledged to do so in the campaign for the 2008 election. Between 2010 and 2012, the tribunal indicted eleven men as suspects; they are now political leaders, nine from Jamaat-e-Islami, two from the BNP and zero from the Awami League. At the time of the Skype controversy, the trials of Salahuddin Quader Chowdhury, Motiur Rahman Nizami and Ghulam Azam were underway at ICT-1 and the trial of Delwar Hossain Sayeedi had nearly finished.\n\nOn 6 December 2012, the presiding judge of ICT-1, Mohammed Nizamul Huq, passed an order requiring two members of \"The Economist\" to appear before the court, demanding that they explain how they came into possession of e-mails and conversations between him and lawyer Ziauddin. This order came after \"The Economist\" contacted Huq about the material they had. The order named Ahmed Ziauddin as an expert assisting the judges, explaining that the judges needed research support as the tribunal is based on new law. On 9 December, the newspaper \"Amar Desh\" began publishing reports and transcripts of the conversations, and \"The Economist\" published a further report on 15 December.\n\nAccording to \"The Economist\", the Skype conversations and e-mails suggested that the Bangladesh Government pressured and attempted to intervene in the International Crimes Tribunal to speed proceedings up. During a conversation between Huq and Ziauddin on 14 October, Huq referred to the government as\nAbsolutely crazy for a judgment. The government has gone totally mad. They have gone completely mad, I am telling you. They want a judgment by 16th December (Victory Day)...it's as simple as that.\nOn 15 October, Huq described how a member of the government \"came to visit me this evening. He asked me to pass this verdict fast. I told him 'how can I do that?'... He said, 'Try as quick as you can.'\"\n\n\"The Economist\" also reported the communications revealed Brussels-based lawyer Ziauddin's influence in the trial. Between 28 August and 20 October, the two men spoke for the equivalent of almost 20 minutes every day. Ziauddin appeared to help Huq prepare documents. On 12 May, Ziauddin sent Huq a document called \"GhulamAzamChargesFinalDraft\", and the next day the tribunal issued an identical document as its indictment against Ghulam Azam. Ziauddin also advised Huq on the future of Huq's fellow judge Shahinur Islam, saying, \"If he does not stop he has to go as well, because it is so harmful to us.\"\n\n\"The Economist\" further adds that the conversations reveal that Ziauddin discussed the same issues with the judge and the prosecutors, including the chief prosecutor Zaed-al-Malum. On 11 December 2011 he sent Malum and another prosecutor help on the case against Azam and forwarded this advice to Huq. After the prosecutors laid their charges, Ziauddin continued to advise Huq on the accusations.\n\nDuring the conversations, one or both of the men referred to Justice Jahangir Hossain as \"corrupt.\" Before Justice Huq resigned, Hossain gave an emotional speech in court in his own defence (Huq was absent). Hossain objected to Huq and Ziauddin's characterisation of him. He also objected to \"Amar Desh's\" coverage of the Skype conversations. Hossain said he had been appointed to sit on a case that involved Mahmudur Rahman (now editor of Amar Desh) while he had been appointed as Energy Advisor in the BNP government. Hossain said that Rahman should not have included his name in a large headline.\n\nAhmed Ziauddin is a Bangladeshi lawyer and academic specializing in international courts of law, who lives and works in Brussels, Belgium. He was born in Dhaka, then part of East Pakistan, where he went to college and law school, and his brother was a friend of Mohammed Nizamul Huq. They have known each other for many years. Ziauddin is a professor of international law at Catholic University of Brussels, where he is the full-time director of the Bangladesh Centre for Genocide Studies. The center campaigns to end what he has called \"the ingrained culture of impunity\" regarding the 1971 war crimes in Bangladesh.\n\nZiauddin is also known for his advocacy of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court as he lobbied Asian governments to sign and ratify the treaty Ziauddin was affiliated since 2001 as coordinator for the Asian Network of the Coalition for the International Criminal Court (CICC) and its efforts to lobby United Nations-member countries to sign the Rome Statute that established by treaty the International Criminal Court. He worked to get Asian countries, such as Pakistan and Bangladesh, to sign and then ratify the treaty Bangladesh signed and then ratified in 2010. In that same year, Bangladesh's ratification of the Rome Statute made possible its establishment of Bangladesh's International Crimes Tribunal.\n\nHis lobbying of Bangladesh for the Rome Treaty was also connected to his desire to see the war crimes trial take place there. He said previous governments in Bangladesh had not dealt with the war crimes. He also wrote that the International Criminal Court did not negate the role of nations; he wrote, \"The ICC is only a complimentary court. It is intended to supplement national courts, which are primarily responsible to try war crimes, crimes against humanity and acts of Genocide.\" He also said that the Rome Statute would protect the country; he said, \"As Bangladesh works to address impunity for past crimes and re-establish the rule of law, joining the ICC will help ensure that grave crimes are not committed in the future.\"\n\nDuring the war crimes trial, Ziauddin advised lead Justice Nizamul Huq. He also drafted charges against one of the accused, Ghulam Azam. Weeks before the Skype controversy came to public light, Ziauddin attended a conference at the Assembly of States Parties of the International Criminal Court at The Hague in November 2012 where Toby Cadman, who is the defense attorney for the accused in Bangladesh's International Crimes Tribunal and the most high-profile critic of the process. Cadman presented a paper that linked the Rome Statute with the problems of the ICT: \"lack of transparency; discriminatory intent of the legislation and tribunal; lack of clear definitions of crimes; absence of rules of disclosure; and investigations being conducted under a cloak of secrecy.\"\n\nZiauddin described his professional relationship with Huq in \"The Economist\" as follows:\nAfter the disclosure of their conversations came to light, Ziauddin was also called before Bangladesh's war crimes court to answer for his participation, a case which is in progress.\n\nOn 11 December 2012, Huq resigned from his position as chairman of ICT-1, citing personal reasons. Despite demands from Jamaat-e-Islami for the tribunal to be scrapped, the Law Minister Shafique Ahmed said that Huq's resignation would not hamper trial proceedings. He said that Huq had in no way behaved improperly and had the right to consult with experts in the law. On 13 December, Fazle Kabir, then head of the second tribunal (ICT-2), was named as the new chairman.\n\nOn 19 December, the defence submitted applications for a retrial. A petition was also filed to remove the chief prosecutor Zaed-al-Malum. Salahuddin Quader Chowdhury, BNP MP on trial at ICT-1, demanded adjournment of his case until the petition was settled. On 3 January, the defendants' applications for retrials were rejected.\n\nThe editor of \"Amar Desh,\" Mahmudur Rahman, was arrested on remand on 11 April 2013 for a number of charges, including sedition for publishing the Skype material, as well as other reporting from Amar Desh about the 2013 Shahbag protests.\n"}
{"id": "51452453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51452453", "title": "2016 Bojangles' Southern 500", "text": "2016 Bojangles' Southern 500\n\nThe 2016 Bojangles' Southern 500, the 67th running of the event, was a NASCAR Sprint Cup Series stock car race that was held on September 4, 2016 at Darlington Raceway in Darlington, South Carolina. Contested over 367 laps on the egg-shaped oval, it was the 25th race of the 2016 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series season. Furniture Row Racing's Martin Truex Jr. won the race by holding off Kevin Harvick to earn his second victory of the 2016 season.\n\nBrad Keselowski made his way to a second-place finish, The race had eight lead changes among different drivers and ten cautions for 52 laps.\n\nDarlington Raceway is a race track built for NASCAR racing located near Darlington, South Carolina. It is nicknamed \"The Lady in Black\" and \"The Track Too Tough to Tame\" by many NASCAR fans and drivers and advertised as \"A NASCAR Tradition.\" It is of a unique, somewhat egg-shaped design, an oval with the ends of very different configurations, a condition which supposedly arose from the proximity of one end of the track to a minnow pond the owner refused to relocate. This situation makes it very challenging for the crews to set up their cars' handling in a way that will be effective at both ends.\nThe preliminary entry list for the race included 40 cars and was released on August 27, 2016 at 1:52 p.m. Eastern time.\n\nNASCAR cancelled all Friday activities and rescheduled both practice sessions in place of qualifying for Saturday due to rain from Hurricane Hermine. Kevin Harvick was awarded the pole position as a result.\n\nJimmie Johnson was the fastest in the first practice session with a time of 27.937 and a speed of .\n\nBrad Keselowski was the fastest in the final practice session with a time of 28.157 and a speed of .\n\nUnder mostly sunny South Carolina skies, Kevin Harvick led the field to the green flag at 6:26 p.m. Not much happened during this first run of the race outside of Clint Bowyer making an unscheduled stop for a flat tire on lap 23. Kyle Larson started a cycle of green flag stops on lap 47. Harvick retained the lead through the pit cycle. Austin Dillon and Michael McDowell were black-flagged for speeding and forced to serve a pass through penalty.\n\nIt was the same routine the next run of riding around the track until the second round of stops on lap 92. This time, Brad Keselowski assumed the lead when Harvick pitted. Trevor Bayne spun out at the entrance of pit road and brought out the first caution of the race on lap 96. This trapped all but Keselowski, Chase Elliott and Ricky Stenhouse Jr. a lap or more down. Everyone opted to take the wave-around when the top-three pitted.\n\nThe race restarted on lap 103. Jimmie Johnson, who was black-flagged before the caution flew for \"illegal body modification,\" was forced to serve a pass through penalty. The second caution of the race flew on lap 114 after Brian Scott got loose exiting turn 2 and spun out.\n\nThe race restarted on lap 118. Keselowski drove away from the field for a time, but was chased down by Harvick who passed him in turn 2 to retake the lead on lap 141. A number of cars started pitting on lap 162. Harvick was among them and Keselowski assumed the lead. He pitted the next lap and the lead cycled back to Harvick.\n\nThe third caution of the race flew on lap 204 for a single-car wreck on the backstretch. Exiting turn 2, Tony Stewart got alongside Scott and his car got loose. After he recovered his car, he veered back to the right, hooked Scott and sent him into the inside wall. \"We were just in a bad situation ... I was trying to let Tony go,\" Scott said. \"Apparently he got mad at me. I have a lot of respect for Tony. He's always raced me really clean. I am not sure what he thought was going on there. I am not sure if he thought I was trying to hold him up there, I wasn’t. I was trying to let him go. I even pointed him to the inside. Maybe he thought I was giving him the finger or something. I will talk with him. We will figure it out.” Stewart was called to the NASCAR hauler after the race for the incident. He denied intentionally wrecking him, saying afterwards that he was \"on old tires and sliding around. I got underneath him in [Turn] 2 and for some reason, he ran us through there [beside us] and I got really loose, and I was still getting it gathered up and got him in the left rear and wrecked him.\"\n\nThe race restarted on lap 211. The fourth caution of the race flew on lap 213 after Johnson got loose exiting turn 4, spun down the track and hit the inside wall on the frontstretch.\n\nThe race restarted on lap 218. The fifth caution of the race flew on lap 249 after Jeffrey Earnhardt slammed the wall in turn 4. Denny Hamlin exited pit road with the race lead.\n\nThe race restarted on lap 255. The sixth caution of the race flew on lap 260 for Greg Biffle hitting the wall in turn 4. Matt Kenseth opted not to pit under the caution and assumed the race lead.\n\nThe race restarted on lap 265. Harvick drove by Kenseth to retake the lead with 94 laps to go. The seventh caution of the race flew with 87 laps to go for a two-car wreck in turn 2 involving A. J. Allmendinger and Ryan Blaney. Hamlin exited pit road with the race lead.\n\nThe race restarted with 83 laps to go. Larson got a great restart and took the lead from Hamlin with 82 laps to go. Oil left on the track that came from the expired engine of Stewart's No. 14 car brought out the eighth caution of the race with 48 laps to go.\n\nThe race restarted with 45 laps to go. The ninth caution of the race flew with 39 laps to go for a two-car wreck on the backstretch. Rounding turn 2, Paul Menard suffered a left-rear tire blowout, got loose, clipped Kurt Busch and sent him backwards into the wall. He continued down the track hitting the inside wall head on. Ryan Newman opted not to pit and assumed the lead along with Brad Keselowski who also stayed out.\n\nThe race restarted with 34 laps to go. Martin Truex Jr. passed Newman for the lead with 27 laps to go. Harvick reeled him in to take the lead just as the 10th caution of the race flew for a two-car wreck in turn 2 involving Aric Almirola and Bowyer. Truex exited pit road with the race lead.\n\nThe race restarted with 12 laps to go. Truex drove on to score the victory.\n\nTruex said in victory lane that the win was \"just – this is unbelievable. So many people to thank obviously. I’ve always loved this race track. I’ve led a lot of laps here in my career. I feel like just something always happened and just so proud to get to victory lane with this group. The pit crew was flawless tonight. They won us the race. They took a lot of heat from last week with what happened. I’m glad he’s (Ryan Newman) not riding home with me – he’d be waiting a while. But just a big weekend for us to – we’ve had a terrible string of back luck. We’ve had super-fast race cars. Auto-Owners Insurance, this is their second race with us and one more with us this year and really excited for them. They went a little retro. I’ve got my zoot suit. This is something here that’s really special to us – I ran this wheel today and it’s real special to take that thing to victory lane. We do a lot with our foundation for ovarian and pediatric cancer. It’s awareness month for both of those diseases, so big day for us there, but just can’t say enough about this team and Barney Visser (team owner) and Toyota and TRD (Toyota Racing Development) – the engines have been unbelievable this year – and Bass Pro Shops and Furniture Row, Denver Mattress and everybody that’s made this possible. Cole Pearn (crew chief) and these guys are just amazing. I knew when the bad luck would stop coming we’d start racking them off. We do a lot with our foundation for ovarian and pediatric cancer. It’s awareness month for both of those diseases, so big day for us there, but just can’t say enough about this team and Barney Visser (team owner) and Toyota and TRD (Toyota Racing Development) – the engines have been unbelievable this year – and Bass Pro Shops and Furniture Row, Denver Mattress and everybody that’s made this possible. Cole Pearn (crew chief) and these guys are just amazing. I knew when the bad luck would stop coming we’d start racking them off and tonight we weren’t the best car for once and we actually won, so that was really cool and just couldn’t be more excited to win at Darlington, the Southern 500. I’ve been wanting to win this thing a long time and got to thank Sprint, the fans were great – tons of fans here today – and really excited. Glad they stuck around for a good finish and I don’t know – I could go on and on for hours I guess. Well, it just was frustrating to lead laps here throughout my career and even in years when we didn’t run that well at teams I was on, we seemed to run well here and felt like we let a few slip away. It was worth the wait for sure, so we’ll do some celebrating tonight and just can’t thank everybody enough again – everybody at (Joe) Gibbs (Racing), all those guys, great teammates – just so many people I need to thank. The pit crew – man, I can’t say it enough, what a job they did tonight. I appreciate them.”\n\nAfter a series of bad pit stops relegated Harvick, who led a race high of 214 laps, to a runner-up finish, he said that he lost the race because of \"the same old thing. You get into position where you bring a dominant car. The guys in the shop and the guys in the garage are doing a great job. The guys on pit road are doing a terrible job. You get into position to win races and they continually step on their toes and don’t make it happen.’’ During his post-race media availability, he went further saying he's \"over being a cheerleader. Those guys get paid a lot of money to perform on pit road and cheerleading hasn’t really been working. You’ve got to get after it on pit road and do your job.”\n\nOn the Wednesday following the race, Larson and Newman – whose cars failed post-race inspection – were docked 15 points each, and their crew chiefs were both fined over $20,000.\n\n\nNBC Sports covered the race on the television side. Rick Allen, two–time Darlington winner Jeff Burton and Steve Letarte had the call in the booth for the race. As part of the throwback weekend, Ken Squier, Ned Jarrett and Dale Jarrett also called a portion of the race. Dave Burns, Mike Massaro, Marty Snider and Kelli Stavast handled pit road on the television side.\n\nThe Motor Racing Network had the radio call for the race, which was simulcasted on Sirius XM NASCAR Radio. Dave Moody called the race from a Billboard outside of turn when the field raced through turns 1 and 2, and Mike Bagley had the call of the race atop of the Darlington Raceway Club outside of turn 3 when the field raced through turns 3 and 4\n"}
{"id": "1029473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029473", "title": "A1 Grand Prix", "text": "A1 Grand Prix\n\nA1 Grand Prix (A1GP) was a 'single make' open wheel auto racing series that ran from 2005 until 2009. It was unique in its field in that competitors solely represented their nation as opposed to themselves or a team, the usual format in most formula racing series. As such, it was often promoted as the \"World Cup of Motorsport\". The series was ratified by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) and races were held in the traditional Formula One off-season, the northern hemisphere winter. The nation-based A1GP concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai, initially in 2003. After a successful first season of A1GP, it was announced on 29 September 2006 that Maktoum was to sell his position as Chairman & Director of A1GP. The transfer of his share in the organisation of A1 Grand Prix to RAB Capital was finalized in December 2006. Tony Teixeira took control of the series in 2006, leading it to liquidation by 2009.\n\nThe nation-based A1GP concept was founded by Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Maktoum Al Maktoum of Dubai, initially in 2003. Once the series had received the backing of the FIA, a management structure including new executive directors Brian Menell and Tony Teixeira were appointed to oversee the sale of franchises for the operation of international teams. Thirty franchises were made available; twenty-three of them were restricted to specified nations, while the other seven were opened to tender for nations that had not been initially targeted.\n\nTwenty-five of the franchises were purchased in time for the 2005–06 A1 Grand Prix season, which began on 25 September 2005 with the A1 Grand Prix of Nations Great Britain at the Brands Hatch circuit in Kent, United Kingdom. The first season was planned for 12 rounds (24 races, with two each weekend); however the cancellation of a race scheduled for Curitiba, Brazil in January 2006 reduced this number to 11. Nelson Piquet, Jr. won the inaugural race of the series for A1 Team Brazil. Their winning form was not to continue. Wins at Estoril and Malaysia saw A1 Team France build up a sizeable gap. By the start of the winter break, France had run away with the lead with A1 Team Switzerland 28 points behind. At the final race of the season in Shanghai, A1 Team France were crowned the first-ever A1 Grand Prix world champions with 172 points. Switzerland were second with 121 points and A1 Team Great Britain third with 97 points.\n\nKatherine Legge was the first woman to drive A1 Grand Prix cars during test session in December 2005 on Dubai Autodrome.\n\nChanges were made for the 2006–07 season to race durations and distances to improve the spectacle for attendees and TV viewers. The 2006–07 schedule was released on 7 July 2006, with the first race at Circuit Park Zandvoort on 1 October 2006, and the last race at Brands Hatch on 29 April 2007. New teams Team Singapore and Team Greece joined the competition but Team Turkey failed to secure funding for the season. Team Austria, Team Japan, Team Portugal and Team Russia did not return for the second season. However, after securing funding Team Portugal competed in the final four rounds of the second season in South Africa, Mexico, China and Britain. Team Germany won the series with 128 points, 35 points lead ahead of Team New Zealand.\n\nOn 29 September, Sheikh Maktoum announced he was resigning his position as chairman and chief executive of the series, seeking to have his place taken by increased shareholder interests:\n\nMaktoum announced his intended resignation in September and his exit from the organisation was confirmed in December.\n\nThe 2008–09 season was the first season in which the new \"Powered by Ferrari\" A1GP car was used. According to 2007–08 champion Neel Jani, 90% of teams in the paddock warned Teixeira ahead of time that this car change was untimely and an inefficient use of funds. Rule changes included shorter qualifying sessions, a pit-stop during the now longer Sprint Race, removal of limits on Friday test drivers, and reduced Sprint Race points scoring.<ref name=\"New 08/09 Rules\"></ref>\n\nThe opening round of the season, scheduled as part of the already well established Nikon SuperGP race meeting, was cancelled five days before practice was due to begin. With cars and series infrastructure still tied up in London and no comment forthcoming from A1GP, organisers in Australia were forced to announce the series would not appear at what had been a high-profile addition to the A1 Grand Prix calendar. The event was underwritten by the Queensland state government, who mentioned the possibility of taking legal recourse against A1 Grand Prix.\n\nThe series was thrown into further doubt as more races were cancelled, with an announcement made on 5 November 2009 stating that the races in China and Malaysia would not be taking place.\nThe last race that was to be held in the season, the Dutch round, was switched for Superleague Formula. This put an end to the hopes the season would start and also put the future of the series in doubt.\n\nEach A1 Grand Prix team represented a nation. Drivers must have the same nationality as the team they drove for. The team car should also represent the country. The team owner, principal and crew, however, did not need to have the same nationality as the team.\n\nTwenty-nine nations started one race in A1GP – as in the table below:\n\nA1 Grands Prix of Nations took place over a three-day period, from Friday to Sunday. The teams were given five sets of dry weather slick tires, and two sets of wet weather treaded tires per weekend. However, if the weather was extreme, the team could be given more wet weather tires at the expense of the slick tires. The race weekend started with two one-hour practice sessions held on the Friday, and then another on the Saturday morning. A two-hour qualifying session took place on Saturday afternoon, and two races took place on Sunday. Primarily, the three practice sessions were for car setup and track familiarisation before the official competition began with Saturday qualifying. Three different drivers could participate in the three practice sessions; the driver elected for qualifying or for one of the races was required to have taken part in at least one such practice session.\n\nA1 Grand Prix used a unique qualifying format, which began at 14:00 local time on the Saturday of the race weekend, to determine the grid lineup for Sunday's races, the Sprint Race and the Main Race. The qualifying period was split into four, ten-minute sessions. Each car was permitted three laps per session, including the laps required for leaving the pits, and for re-entering it. This allowed one lap to set a competitive time. There was a five-minute break between sessions, which added up to a total of 55 minutes for qualifying. The grid for the Sprint Race was set based on the cars' fastest time from either the first or the second session. The grid for the Feature Race was determined the same way, but using sessions three and four. However, if there was a red flag due to an accident on the circuit, the timing to the end of qualifying continued to run.\n\nThe Sprint Race used the grid determined in sessions one and two of the previous day's qualifying session, and was held in the early afternoon. The race began from a rolling start, and its duration was a maximum of 24 minutes plus one additional lap. Additionally, each team had to make one mandatory pit stop between laps four and eight. Drivers were permitted four uses of PowerBoost during the Sprint Race.\n\nThe Feature Race used the grid determined in sessions three and four of the previous day's qualifying session, and was held mid-afternoon. The race began from a standing start, and was a race of approximately , with a maximum time limit of 69 minutes plus one lap. Teams had to make two mandatory pit stops during the Feature Race, one between laps eight and sixteen, and another during a pit window, which was not announced until the first window has closed. Drivers were permitted eight uses of PowerBoost during the Feature Race.\n\nEach team had to complete three compulsory pit stops over the course of the race weekend – one during the Sprint Race, and two during the Feature Race. During the pit stop, all four tyres on the car had to be changed. A total of eight mechanics could be used during the stop, however, only four were allowed to 'touch the car', none of which (save the so-called \"lollipop man\" that directed the car into its pit) could be present in the pit lane before the car came to a complete halt. Refuelling was also not permitted; infringements of these rules or of the pit-lane speed limit resulted in the imposition of a drive-through penalty.\n\nAt the end of Season 3, A1GP released the results of the season's pit stop times. Although having never won a race, A1 Team Australia had the fastest pit crew of all teams.\n\nUnlike almost all other forms of auto racing, drivers did not score points individually; instead the points they earn were ascribed to their national team. This means that teams could change drivers between rounds, which was often necessary because some drivers had commitments in other formulae, and still accumulate points to their score.\n\nPoints were awarded for the first ten places but the amounts changed during the series' run: 15 for the winner, 12 for second place, 10 for third place, 8 for fourth place, 6 for fifth place, 5 for sixth place, and so on with 4, 3, 2, and one point for tenth place. Points were awarded in a different way for the Sprint Race: 10 for the winner, counting down 8, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 point for eighth place. In addition, one point was awarded to the team that set the fastest single lap time in either the Sprint or Main Race. Cash prizes were also awarded.\n\nBelow is a list of pointscoring systems used to determine the winner of the A1 Grand Prix World Cup of Motorsport since the 2005–06 season. The World Cup of Motorsport was awarded to the A1 Grand Prix team which accumulated the most points over the course of a season.\n\nThe A1GP formula provided a single \"spec\" car for each team. Each car was mechanically identical, built with many technical restrictions designed to limit performance, reduce running costs, and prevent any one or number of teams gaining an advantage through better equipment. This regulation provided a level playing field in which driver skill and team effort should become the primary factor for success.\n\nSpecifically, the cars had a carbon fibre monocoque with an aluminium honeycomb core chassis based on the Formula One Ferrari F2004 chassis, riding on control slick tires from Michelin. The 4.5-litre Ferrari/Maserati V8 engine was capable of delivering up to in PowerBoost mode – a mechanism to provide short bursts of increased power to create additional overtaking opportunities and action throughout the race.\n\nRichard Dorfman was the A1GP's director of broadcasting.\nAll broadcaster information is correct for the 2008–09 season.\nThe first Chinese round of the 2006–07 A1GP took place on the streets of Beijing. However, the tight hairpin at the end of the back straight was too tight for the cars to negotiate safely, as it was a 180 degree left turn. Cars were running wide and stopping mid corner; therefore, the sessions were red flagged.\n\nA shorter circuit was created, creating another, less tight hairpin halfway up the straight, bypassing most of the old straight. This corner was still not ideal, as drivers ran wide despite the corner being wider and had to avoid the pitlane entry barrier. It had to suffice, though, as otherwise the race would have been cancelled.\n\nHowever, another problem arose in qualifying when manhole covers on the roads were coming undone due to the racing cars' high downforce and low ride height. Grid positions were decided based on practice times. Some advertising banners also came loose around the circuit.\n\nIt was announced that the races would start behind the safety car, as the first corner was also deemed unsafe.\n\nBoth races were uneventful, particularly the Sprint Race, which took place almost entirely behind the safety car after course officials failed to remove a single spun car in a timely fashion.\n\nChairman Tony Teixeira announced in October 2007 that Italian manufacturer Ferrari would design and build the engines for six years, and that Ferrari would consult in the design and manufacture of the car.\n\nThe Ferrari involvement was intended to ease some of the concerns regarding A1GP's ongoing financial viability, the continued input of existing backers, and the platform's ability to attract sponsors. CEO Pete da Silva reported a loss for the initial season, and yet RAB Capital paid $200 million to the exiting Dubai founder for his 80% stake. Before the 2008–09 \"Powered by Ferrari\" season was to begin, Bloomberg reported that RAB Capital announced that the A1GP investment had been written down for a third time. A1 Team Australia boss Alan Jones later suggested that \"it is common knowledge that Mr Teixeira bought RAB Capital out from A1GP\" before the current season, yet A1GP prominently displayed RAB Capital branding until A1GP discontinued racing operations in 2009.\n\nFollowing doubts that the fifth season would go ahead due to financial constraints and reports that engine suppliers Ferrari would pull out over non-payments, Teixeira announced that the series had secured its long-term future, following a financial restructuring. As part of the restructuring, administration had been applied for the previously liquidated A1 Grand Prix Operations Ltd.\n\nA dispute over the ownership of the series' cars was heard on 18 January 2010 at the High Court of Justice in London, with a judicial decision on 21 January 2010 ruling that the Administrator, Tim Bramston, had won the case with A1 Holdings. The assets were awarded to A1 Grand Prix Operations, and therefore Bramston became their administrator. Bramston said he was trying to secure the best price in liquidation and would not rule out a sale to an entity controlled by Teixeira.\n\nRAB Capital's Special Situations fund missed out on the market recovery of 2009 and its shareholders forced manager RAB to allow the entire fund to be put up for sale through a Dutch auction.\n\nWhile the A1GP liquidators were apparently selling all intellectual property rights along with cars, it is unclear if a buyer was also expected to assume franchise agreements and financial obligations, or if the series and its necessary operating entities could be bought free and clear of any and all claims by Teixeira, Lyndhurst, and RAB. The liquidators appointed GoIndustry DoveBid to handle the sale of the assets, and the liquidators are seeking £10 million for the assets.\n\nIf a revival plan for the series could not be agreed with interested investment parties then the A1 Grand Prix assets were to be put up for auction.\n\nOn 5 July 2010 Autosport magazine published in its \"rumours & speculation\" blog that the series, in one form or another, was to be revived for a new 2011–12 season, citing an unidentified source who claims backing from a group of new investors. The season would constitute 18 countries making up the grid and ten race weekends, spread out either side of Christmas 2011, visiting many of the series' previous venues. The series would also run under a new model, similar to the GP2 Series whereby teams are responsible for finding their own funding.\n\nIn 2011 rumours surfaced of A1GP's potential return with a new name. The series was to be called the A10 World Series, keeping the A1 from A1GP to signify the continuation of the idea. The series was billed as a Global single seater series with 600BHP V10 engines. A source told Autosport magazine that the A10 World Series would use A1GP's idea of pitting countries against each other. However, the holding company for the series was formally dissolved in early 2012.\n\nIn 2014 ISRA (International Sport Racing Association) took 2005–08 A1 Grand Prix racing cars (Lola-Zytek) and created a single-seater competition named Formula Acceleration 1, which was part of Acceleration 2014.\n\nIn May 2015 AFRIX Motorsport of South Africa announced that they had purchased the remaining 21 'Powered by Ferrari' A1GP cars – together with their engines and spares, but less engine management electronics and steering wheels – from Delivered on Time, a freight company that had been granted a lien on the vehicles \"in lieu\" of unpaid bills. AFRIX stated that the cars were to form the basis for a one-make series to be run in South Africa during the southern hemisphere summer.\n\n"}
{"id": "50992504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50992504", "title": "Aftermath of the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, 2016", "text": "Aftermath of the United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, 2016\n\nAfter the UK EU membership referendum held on 23 June 2016, in which a majority voted to leave the European Union, the United Kingdom experienced political and economic upsets, with spillover effects across the rest of the European Union and the wider world. Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Remain, announced his resignation on 24 June, triggering a Conservative leadership election, won by Home Secretary Theresa May. Following Leader of the Opposition Jeremy Corbyn's loss of a motion of no confidence among the Parliamentary Labour Party, he also faced a leadership challenge, which he won. Nigel Farage stepped down from leadership of the pro-Leave party UKIP in July. After the elected party leader resigned, Farage then became the party's interim leader on 5 October until Paul Nuttall was elected leader on 28 November.\n\nVoting patterns in the referendum varied between areas: Gibraltar, Greater London, many other cities, Scotland and Northern Ireland had majorities for Remain; the remainder of England and Wales and most unionist parts of Northern Ireland showed Leave majorities. This fuelled concern among Scottish and Irish nationalists: the First Minister of Scotland threatened to withhold legislative consent for any withdrawal legislation and has now formally requested permission to hold a second Scottish independence referendum, while the deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland called for a referendum on a united Ireland. The status of Gibraltar and that of London were also questioned.\n\nIn late July 2016, the Foreign Affairs Select Committee was told that Cameron had refused to allow the Civil Service to make plans for Brexit, a decision the committee described as \"an act of gross negligence\".\n\nEconomic arguments were a major element of the referendum debate. Remainers, including the UK treasury, argued trade would be worse off outside the EU. Supporters of withdrawal argued that the cessation of net contributions to the EU would allow for some cuts to taxes or increases in government spending.\n\nOn the day after the referendum, Bank of England Governor Mark Carney held a press conference to reassure the markets, and two weeks later released £150 billion in lending. Nonetheless, share prices of the five largest British banks fell an average of 21% on the morning after the referendum. All of the Big Three credit rating agencies reacted negatively to the vote in June 2016: Standard & Poor's cut the UK credit rating from AAA to AA, Fitch Group cut from AA+ to AA, and Moody's cut the UK's outlook to \"negative\".\n\nWhen the London Stock Exchange opened on Friday 24 June, the FTSE 100 fell from 6338.10 to 5806.13 in the first ten minutes of trading. Near the close of trading on 27 June, the domestically-focused FTSE 250 Index was down approximately 14% compared to the day before the referendum results were published. However, by 1 July the FTSE 100 had risen above pre-referendum levels, to a ten-month high representing the index's largest single-week rise since 2011. On 11 July, it officially entered bull market territory, having risen by more than 20% from its February low. The FTSE 250 moved above its pre-referendum level on 27 July. In the US, the S&P 500, a broader market than the Dow Jones, reached an all-time high on 11 July.\n\nOn the morning of 24 June, the pound sterling fell to its lowest level against the US dollar since 1985. The drop over the day was 8% – the biggest one-day fall in the pound since the introduction of floating exchange rates following the collapse of the Bretton Woods system in 1971. The pound remained low, and on 8 July became the worst performing major currency of the year, although the pound's trade-weighted index is only back at levels seen in the period 2008–2013. It was expected that the weaker pound would also benefit aerospace and defence firms, pharmaceutical companies, and professional services companies; the share prices of these companies were boosted after the EU referendum.\n\nAfter the referendum the Institute for Fiscal Studies published a report funded by the Economic and Social Research Council which warned that Britain would lose up to £70 billion in reduced economic growth if it didn't retain Single Market membership with new trade deals unable to make up the difference. One of these areas is financial services, which are helped by EU-wide \"passporting\" for financial products, which the Financial Times estimates indirectly accounts for up to 71,000 jobs and 10 billion pounds of tax annually and there are concerns that banks may relocate outside the UK.\n\nOn 5 January 2017, Andy Haldane, the Chief Economist and the Executive Director of Monetary Analysis and Statistics at the Bank of England, admitted that forecasts predicting an economic downturn due to the referendum were inaccurate and noted strong market performance after the referendum, although some have pointed to prices rising faster than wages.\n\nOn 27 June, Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne attempted to reassure financial markets that the UK economy was not in serious trouble. This came after media reports that a survey by the Institute of Directors suggested that two-thirds of businesses believed that the outcome of the referendum would produce negative results as well as falls in the value of sterling and the FTSE 100. Some British businesses had also predicted that investment cuts, hiring freezes and redundancies would be necessary to cope with the results of the referendum. Osborne indicated that Britain was facing the future \"from a position of strength\" and there was no current need for an emergency Budget. \"No-one should doubt our resolve to maintain the fiscal stability we have delivered for this country ... And to companies, large and small, I would say this: the British economy is fundamentally strong, highly competitive and we are open for business.\"\n\nOn 14 July Philip Hammond, Osborne's successor as Chancellor, told BBC News the referendum result had caused uncertainty for businesses, and that it was important to send \"signals of reassurance\" to encourage investment and spending. He also confirmed there would not be an emergency budget: \"We will want to work closely with the governor of the Bank of England and others through the summer to prepare for the Autumn Statement, when we will signal and set out the plans for the economy going forward in what are very different circumstances that we now face, and then those plans will be implemented in the Budget in the spring in the usual way.\"\n\nOn 12 July, the global investment management company BlackRock predicted the UK would experience a recession in late 2016 or early 2017 as a result of the vote to leave the EU, and that economic growth would slow down for at least five years because of a reduction in investment. On 18 July, the UK-based economic forecasting group EY ITEM club suggested the country would experience a \"short shallow recession\" as the economy suffered \"severe confidence effects on spending and business\"; it also cut its economic growth forecasts for the UK from 2.6% to 0.4% in 2017, and 2.4% to 1.4% for 2018. The group's chief economic adviser, Peter Soencer, also argued there would be more long-term implications, and that the UK \"may have to adjust to a permanent reduction in the size of the economy, compared to the trend that seemed possible prior to the vote\". Senior City investor Richard Buxton also argued there would be a \"mild recession\". On 19 July, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) reduced its 2017 economic growth forecast for the UK from 2.2% to 1.3%, but still expected Britain to be the second fastest growing economy in the G7 during 2016; the IMF also reduced its forecasts for world economic growth by 0.1% to 3.1% in 2016 and 3.4% in 2017, as a result of the referendum, which it said had \"thrown a spanner in the works\" of global recovery.\n\nOn 20 July, a report released by the Bank of England said that although uncertainty had risen \"markedly\" since the referendum, it was yet to see evidence of a sharp economic decline as a consequence. However, around a third of contacts surveyed for the report expected there to be \"some negative impact\" over the following year.\n\nIn September 2016, following three months of positive economic data after the referendum, commentators suggested that many of the negative statements and predictions promoted from within the \"remain\" camp had failed to materialise, but by December, analysis began to show that Brexit was having an effect on inflation.\n\nIn April 2017 the IMF raised their forecast for the UK economy from 1.5% to 2% for 2017 and from 1.4% to 1.5% for 2018.\n\nOn 24 June, the Conservative Party leader and prime minister, David Cameron, announced that he would resign by October because the Leave campaign had been successful in the referendum. Although most of the Conservative MPs on both sides of the referendum debate had urged him to stay, the UKIP leader, Nigel Farage, called for Cameron to go \"immediately\". A leadership election was scheduled for 9 September, with the new leader to be in place before the party's autumn conference on 2 October. The two main candidates were predicted to be Boris Johnson, who had been a keen supporter of leaving the EU, and Home Secretary Theresa May, who had campaigned for Remain. The last-minute candidature by Johnson's former ally Michael Gove destabilised the race and forced Johnson to stand down; the final two candidates became May and Andrea Leadsom. Leadsom soon withdrew, leaving May as new party leader and next prime minister. She took office on 13 July.\n\nThe Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn faced growing criticism from his parliamentary party MPs, who had supported remaining within the EU, for poor campaigning, and two Labour MPs submitted a vote of no confidence in Corbyn on 24 June. It is claimed that there is evidence that Corbyn deliberately sabotaged Labour's campaign to remain part of the EU, despite remain polling favourably among Labour voters. In the early hours of Sunday 26 June, Corbyn sacked Hilary Benn (the shadow foreign secretary) for apparently leading a coup against him. This led to a string of Labour MPs quickly resigning their roles in the party. By mid-afternoon on 27 June 2016, 23 of the Labour Party's 31 shadow cabinet members had resigned from the shadow cabinet as had seven parliamentary private secretaries. On 27 June 2016, Corbyn filled some of the vacancies and was working to fill the others.\n\nAccording to a source quoted by the BBC, the party's Deputy Leader Tom Watson told leader Jeremy Corbyn that \"it looks like we are moving towards a leadership election.\" Corbyn stated that he would run again in that event. A no confidence motion was held on 28 June 2016; Corbyn lost the motion with more than 80% (172) of MPs voting against him with a turnout of 95%.\n\nCorbyn responded with a statement that the motion had no \"constitutional legitimacy\" and that he intended to continue as the elected leader. The vote does not require the party to call a leadership election but, according to \"The Guardian\": \"the result is likely to lead to a direct challenge to Corbyn as some politicians scramble to collect enough nominations to trigger a formal challenge to his leadership.\" By 29 June, Corbyn had been encouraged to resign by Labour Party stalwarts such as Dame Tessa Jowell, Ed Miliband and Dame Margaret Beckett. Union leaders rallied behind Corbyn, issuing a joint statement saying that the Labour leader had a \"resounding mandate\" and a leadership election would be an \"unnecessary distraction\". Supporting Corbyn, John McDonnell said, \"We're not going to be bullied by Labour MPs who refuse to accept democracy in our party.\"\n\nOn 11 July, Angela Eagle announced her campaign for the Labour party leadership after attaining enough support of MPs to trigger a leadership contest, saying that she \"can provide the leadership that Corbyn can't\". Eagle subsequently dropped out of the race (on 18 July) leaving Owen Smith as the only contender to Jeremy Corbyn.\n\nSmith had supported the campaign for Britain to remain in the European Union, in the referendum on Britain's membership in June 2016. On 13 July 2016, following the vote to leave the EU, three weeks prior, he pledged that he would press for an early general election or offer a further referendum on the final 'Brexit' deal drawn up by the new prime minister, were he to be elected Labour leader.\n\nApproximately two weeks later, Smith told the BBC that (in his view) those who had voted with the Leave faction had done so \"because they felt a sense of loss in their communities, decline, cuts that have hammered away at vital public services and they haven't felt that any politicians, certainly not the politicians they expect to stand up for them...\" His recommendation was to \"put in place concrete policies that will bring real improvements to people's lives so I'm talking about a British New Deal for every part of Britain...\"\n\nThe Lib Dems, who are a strongly pro-European party, announced that they respect the referendum result, but would make remaining in the EU a manifesto pledge at the next election. Leader Tim Farron said that \"The British people deserve the chance not to be stuck with the appalling consequences of a leave campaign that stoked that anger with the lies of Farage, Johnson and Gove.\"\n\nIn reaction to the lack of unified pro-EU voice following the referendum, members of the Liberal Democrats and others discussed the launch of a new centre-left political movement. This was officially launched on 24 June as More United, named after a line in the maiden speech of Labour MP Jo Cox, who was killed during the referendum campaign. More United is a cross-party coalition, and will crowdfund candidates from any party who support its goals, which include environmentalism, a market economy with strong public services, and close co-operation with the EU.\n\nThe UK Independence Party was founded to press for British withdrawal from the EU, and following the referendum its leader Nigel Farage announced, on 4 July, that having succeeded in this goal, he would stand down as leader. Following the resignation of the elected leader Diane James, Farage became the interim party leader on 5 October. Farage's successor Paul Nuttall was elected the party leader on 28 November 2016.\n\nThe government and the civil service is heavily focused on Brexit. Former Head of the Home Civil Service Bob Kerslake has stated that there is a risk that other matters will get insufficient attention until they develop into crises.\n\nA cross party coalition of MP's has been formed to oppose hard Brexit. This group is known as, the all-party parliamentary group on EU relations. Chuka Umunna said that MP's should be active players rather than spectators, he said, “We will be fighting in parliament for a future relationship with the EU that protects our prosperity and rights at work, and which delivers a better and safer world.”\n\nUnder the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011, the next general election was scheduled to be held on 7 May 2020.\n\nFollowing the result of the referendum, some political commentators argued that it might be necessary to hold an early general election before negotiations to leave begin. The final two candidates in the Conservative Party leadership election – Andrea Leadsom and Theresa May – said they would not seek an early general election. However, after Leadsom's withdrawal and with May thus due to become prime minister without any broader vote, there were renewed calls for an early election from commentators and politicians. Tim Farron, leader of the Liberal Democrats, called for an early election shortly after Leadsom's withdrawal.\n\nDespite repeatedly previously ruling out an early General Election, May announced on 18 April 2017 her intention to call an election on 8 June 2017. This required a two-thirds super-majority of the Commons in support of a motion for an early general election, which was agreed on 19 April. May stated that \"division in Westminster will risk ability to make a success of Brexit and it will cause damaging uncertainty and instability to the country... We need a general election and we need one now, because we have at this moment a one-off chance to get this done while the European Union agrees its negotiating position and before the detailed talks begin. I have only recently and reluctantly come to this conclusion.\"\n\nThe snap election resulted in an unexpected Hung Parliament with the Conservatives losing their overall majority but remained as the largest party which has led to further political turmoil.\n\nNumerous pressure groups were established after the referendum to oppose Brexit.\n\nA week after the referendum, Gordon Brown, a former Labour prime minister who had signed the Lisbon Treaty in 2007, warned of a danger that in the next decade the country would be refighting the referendum. He wrote that remainers were feeling they must be pessimists to prove that Brexit is unmanageable without catastrophe, while leavers optimistically claim economic risks are exaggerated.\n\nThe previous Labour prime minister, Tony Blair, in October 2016 called for a second referendum, a decision through parliament or a general election to decide finally if Britain should leave the EU. Former leader of the Conservative prime minister John Major argued in November 2016 that parliament will have to ratify whatever deal is negotiated and then, depending on the deal there could be a case for a second referendum.\n\nIn the summer of 2018, a survey by YouGov indicated that five British people think the government is handling negotiations badly for every one who approves of the government's negotiations. In another survery, voters indicated dissatisfaction not only with the UK government. The polling organisation NatCen found 57% think the EU is handling Brexit talks badly, while only 16% believe it is doing well.\n\nTo what extent free movement of people would or would not be retained in any post-Brexit deal with the EU has emerged as a key political issue. Shortly after the result, the Conservative politician Daniel Hannan, who campaigned for Leave, told the BBC's \"Newsnight\" that Brexit was likely to change little about the freedom of movement between the UK and the European Union, concluding \"We never said there was going to be some radical decline ... we want a measure of control.\"\n\nTheresa May stated in August 2016 that leaving the EU 'must mean controls on the numbers of people who come to Britain from Europe but also a positive outcome for those who wish to trade goods and services'. According to a Home Office document leaked in September 2017, Britain plans to end the free movement of labour immediately after Brexit and introduce restrictions to deter all but highly skilled EU workers. It proposes offering low-skilled workers residency for a maximum of two years and the highly skilled work permits for three to five years.\n\nBoris Johnson initially argued that restricting freedom of movement was not one of the main reasons why people have voted Leave, but his position was seen as too lax on the issue by other Conservative Party Leave supporters, which may have contributed to Michael Gove's decision to stand for the party's leadership contest. Meanwhile, EU leaders warned that full access to the single market would not be available without retaining free movement of people. Limitations on the free movement of EU citizens within the UK will also have consequences for research and innovation. While campaigning in the Conservative leadership contest, Gove pledged to end the freedom of movement accord with the EU and instead implement an Australian-style points system.\n\nNatasha Bouchard, the Mayor of Calais, suggests that the government of France should renegotiate the Le Touquet treaty, which allows British border guards to check trains, cars and lorries before they cross the Channel from France to Britain and therefore to keep irregular immigrants away from Britain. French government officials doubt that the trilateral agreement (it includes Belgium) would be valid after the UK has officially left the European Union and especially think that it is unlikely that there will be any political motivation to enforce the agreement. However, on 1 July 2016 François Hollande said British border controls would stay in place in France, though France suggested during the referendum campaign they would be scrapped allowing migrants in the \"Jungle\" camp easy access to Kent.\n\nIn late July 2016, discussions were underway that might provide the UK with an exemption from the EU rules on refugees' freedom of movement for up to seven years. Senior UK government sources confirmed to \"The Observer\" that this was \"certainly one of the ideas now on the table\". If the discussions led to an agreement, the UK – though not an EU member – would also retain access to the single market but would be required to pay a significant annual contribution to the EU. According to \"The Daily Telegraph\" the news of this possibility caused a rift in the Conservative Party: \"Tory MPs have reacted with fury ... [accusing European leaders of] ... failing to accept the public's decision to sever ties with the 28-member bloc last month.\"\n\nAccording to CEP analysis of Labour Force Survey, immigrants in the UK are on average more educated than UK-born citizens. Citizens in the UK are concerned that immigrants are taking over their jobs since most immigrants are highly educated, however, they are actually helping the economy because they too consume goods, and produce jobs. Immigrants to the UK help to mitigate the negative effects of the ageing British labour force and are believed to have an overall net positive fiscal effect. Some have argued that immigration has a dampening effect on wages due to the greater supply of labour. However, other studies suggest that immigration has only a small impact on the average wage of workers. Immigration may have a negative impact on the wages of low-skilled workers but can push up the wages of medium- and highly paid workers.\n\nThere were about 3.7 million EU citizens (including Irish) living in the UK in 2016 and around 1.2 million British citizens living in other EU countries. The future status of both groups of people and their reciprocal rights are the object of Brexit negotiations. According to the British Office for National Statistics, 623,000 EU citizens came to live in England and Wales before 1981. A further 855,000 arrived before the year 2000. As of 2017, approximately 1.4 million Eastern Europeans were living in Britain, including 916,000 Poles. In May 2004, when the EU welcomed ten new member states from a majority of Central and Eastern European countries, the UK was one of only three EU member states, alongside Sweden and Ireland, to open their labour market immediately to these new EU citizens. In the 12 months following the referendum, the estimated number of EU nationals immigrating to the UK fell from 284,000 to 230,000. In parallel, the number of EU citizens emigrating from the UK increased from an estimated 95,000 in the year before the vote to 123,000. Annual net immigration from the EU to the UK has, thus, fallen to about 100,000.\n\nTheresa May, when candidate for Conservative leader, suggested that the status of EU immigrants currently in the UK could be used in negotiations with other European countries, with the possibility of expelling these people if the EU does not offer favourable exit terms. This position has been strongly rejected by other politicians from both Remain and Leave campaigns. In response to a question by Labour Leave campaigner Gisela Stuart, the Minister for Security and Immigration James Brokenshire said that the Government was unable to make any promises about the status of EU citizens in the UK before the government had set out negotiating positions, and that it would seek reciprocal protection for UK citizens in EU countries.\n\nThe Vice-Chancellor of Germany, Sigmar Gabriel, announced that the country would consider easing citizenship requirements for British nationals currently in Germany, to protect their status. The foreign ministry of Ireland stated that the number of applications from UK citizens for Irish passports increased significantly after the announcement of the result of the referendum on the membership in the European Union. The Irish Embassy in London usually receives 200 passport applications a day, which increased to 4,000 a day after the vote to leave. Other EU nations also had increases in requests for passports from British citizens, including France and Belgium.\n\nCornwall voted to leave the EU but Cornwall Council issued a plea for protection of its local economy and to continue receiving subsidies, as it had received millions of pounds in subsidies from the EU.\n\nAfter the referendum, leading scientists expressed fear of a shortfall in funding for research and science and worried that the UK had become less attractive for scientists. The UK science minister, Jo Johnson said the government would be on the watch for discrimination against UK scientists, after stories circulated about scientists being left out of joint grant proposals with other EU scientists in the aftermath of the referendum.\nOn 15 August 2016, ministers announced that research funding would be matched by the UK government.\n\nIn October 2016, government ministers announced that the UK would be investing 220 million pounds ($285 million) in support of the nation's technology industry. The consequences of Brexit for academia will become clearer once negotiations for Britain's post-Brexit relationship with the EU get under way.\n\nThe European Union Youth Orchestra announced in October 2017 that, as a result of Brexit, it intends to relocate from London to Italy. It is expected British youth will cease being eligible to participate in the orchestra in future.\n\nAs of January 2018, the European Commission had announced that three European agencies would be leaving the UK as a consequence of its withdrawal from the EU: the European Medicines Agency, European Banking Authority and the Galileo Satellite Monitoring Agency.\n\nThe United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland are members of the Common Travel Area, which allows free movement between these countries. If the UK negotiates a settlement with the EU that does not involve Freedom of Movement, while the Republic of Ireland remains an EU member, an open border between the Republic and Northern Ireland is likely to become untenable. Martin McGuinness, deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland, said this would \"seriously undermine\" the Good Friday Agreement that brought an end to the Troubles. David Cameron pledged to do whatever possible to maintain the open border. Since becoming prime minister Theresa May has reassured both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland that there will not be a \"hard (customs or immigration) border\" on the island of Ireland.\n\nThe most likely way that exit from the EU is activated is through Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. The British government chooses when to invoke, although theoretically the other members of the European Union could refuse to negotiate before invocation. This will be the first time that this article has been invoked. The government can theoretically ignore the result of the referendum.\n\nAlthough Cameron had previously announced that he would invoke Article 50 on the morning after a Leave vote, he declared during his resignation that the next prime minister should activate Article 50 and begin negotiations with the EU. During the Conservative leadership contest, Theresa May expressed that the UK needs a clear negotiating position before triggering Article 50, and that she would not do so in 2016. The other 27 members of the EU issued a joint statement on 26 June 2016 regretting but respecting Britain's decision and asking them to proceed quickly in accordance with Article 50. This was echoed by the EU Economic Affairs Commissioner Pierre Moscovici. However, with the next French presidential election being held in April and May 2017, and the next German federal election likely to be held in autumn 2017, \"people close to the E.U. Commission\" were reported as saying that the European Commission was at the time working under the assumption that Article 50 notification would not be made before September 2017.\n\nOn 27 June 2016, a \"Brexit unit\" of civil servants were tasked with \"intensive work on the issues that will need to be worked through in order to present options and advice to a new Prime Minister and a new Cabinet\", while on 14 July, David Davis was appointed to the newly created post of Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union, or \"Brexit Secretary\", with a remit to oversee the UK's negotiations for withdrawing from the EU. Davis called for a \"brisk but measured\" approach to negotiations, and suggested the UK should be ready to trigger Article 50 \"before or by the start of\" 2017, saying \"the first order of business\" should be to negotiate trade deals with countries outside the European Union. However, Oliver Letwin, a former Minister of State for Europe, warned the UK had no trade negotiators to lead such talks.\n\nHaving previously ruled out starting the Article 50 process before 2017, on 15 July 2016, following a meeting with Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, May said that it would not begin without a coherent \"UK approach\" to negotiations. Lawyers representing the government in a legal challenge over the Article 50 process said that May would not trigger Article 50 before 2017. However, in September 2016, \"The Washington Post\" highlighted the lack of coherent strategy following what it described as the \"hurricane-strength political wreckage\" left by the Brexit vote. It said the public still had no idea what the oft repeated \"Brexit means Brexit\" meant and there have been nearly as many statements on what the objectives were as there are cabinet ministers.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled in the Miller case in January 2017 that the government needed parliamentary approval to trigger Article 50. After the House of Commons overwhelmingly voted, on 1 February 2017, for the government's bill authorising the prime minister to invoke Article 50, the bill passed into law as the European Union (Notification of Withdrawal) Act 2017. Theresa May signed the letter invoking Article 50 on 28 March 2017, which was delivered on 29 March by Tim Barrow, the UK's ambassador to the EU, to Donald Tusk.\n\nOn 20 July 2016, following her first overseas trip as prime minister, during which she flew to Berlin for talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Theresa May reaffirmed her intention not to trigger Article 50 before 2017, suggesting it would take time for the UK to negotiate a \"sensible and orderly departure\" from the EU. However, although Merkel said it was right for the UK to \"take a moment\" before beginning the process, she urged May to provide more clarity on a timetable for negotiations. Shortly before travelling to Berlin, May had also announced that in the wake of the referendum, Britain would relinquish the presidency of the Council of the European Union, which passes between member states every six months on a rotation basis, and that the UK had been scheduled to hold in the second half of 2017.\n\nThe distribution of Remain and Leave votes varied dramatically across the country. Remain won every single Scottish district, most London boroughs, Gibraltar and the predominantly Catholic parts of Northern Ireland, as well as many English and Welsh cities. Leave by contrast won almost all other English and Welsh districts and most of the predominantly Ulster Protestant districts, and won a majority in Wales as a whole as well as every English region outside London. These results were interpreted by many commentators as revealing a \"split\" or \"divided\" country, and exacerbated regional tensions.\n\nFollowing the referendum result the all-party Constitution Reform Group announced its intention to publish a draft Act of Union bill outlining a proposed federal constitutional structure for the United Kingdom. Among its proposals are the establishment of an English Parliament, replacing the House of Lords with a directly elected chamber, and greater devolution for the English regions, following a similar format to that of the Greater Manchester Combined Authority.\n\nOf the constituent countries in the United Kingdom, England voted most in favour of leaving the European Union with 53% of voters choosing to leave compared to 47% of voters who chose to remain. Every region apart from Greater London returned large majority votes in favour of \"Leave\". The largest regional vote in favour of \"Leave\" was recorded in the West Midlands which saw 59% of voters chose to leave the EU which was closely followed by the East Midlands which saw 58% of voters opting to leave. The East Midlands also saw the two highest local authority votes in the United Kingdom in favour of leaving the EU which was recorded in the Borough of Boston in Lincolnshire in which 75.6% of voters chose to leave which was closely followed by the neighbouring local authority South Holland which saw 73% of voters there opting to leave.\n\nScotland voted 62% to remain in the European Union, with all 32 council areas returning a majority for remaining (albeit with an extremely narrow margin of 122 votes in Moray). Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said it was \"clear that the people of Scotland see their future as part of the European Union\" and that Scotland had \"spoken decisively\" with a \"strong, unequivocal\" vote to remain in the European Union. The Scottish Government announced on 24 June 2016 that officials would plan for a \"highly likely\" second referendum on independence from the United Kingdom and start preparing legislation to that effect. Former First Minister Alex Salmond said the vote was a \"significant and material change\" in Scotland's position within the United Kingdom, and that he was certain his party would implement its manifesto on holding a second referendum. Sturgeon said she will communicate to all EU member states that \"Scotland has voted to stay in the EU and I intend to discuss all options for doing so.\" An emergency cabinet meeting on 25 June 2016 agreed that the Scottish Government would \"begin immediate discussions with the EU institutions and other member states to explore all the possible options to protect Scotland's place in the EU.\"\n\nOn 26 June, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon told the BBC that Scotland could attempt to refuse legislative consent for the UK's exit from the European Union, and on 28 June, established a \"standing council\" of experts to advise her on how to protect Scotland's relationship with the EU. On the same day she made the following statement: \"I want to be clear to parliament that whilst I believe that independence is the best option for Scotland – I don’t think that will come as a surprise to anyone – it is not my starting point in these discussions. My starting point is to protect our relationship with the EU.\" Sturgeon met with EU leaders in Brussels the next day to discuss Scotland remaining in the EU. Afterwards, she said the reception had been \"sympathetic\", in spite of France and Spain objecting to negotiations with Scotland, but conceded that she did not underestimate the challenges.\n\nAlso on 28 June, Scottish MEP Alyn Smith received standing ovations from the European Parliament for a speech ending \"Scotland did not let you down, do not let Scotland down.\" Manfred Weber, the leader of the European People's Party Group and a key ally of Angela Merkel, said Scotland would be welcome to remain a member of the EU. In an earlier \"Welt am Sonntag\" interview, , chairman of the Bundestag's European affairs committee, stated that \"the EU will still consist of 28 member states, as I expect a new independence referendum in Scotland, which will then be successful,\" and urged to \"respond quickly to an application for admission from the EU-friendly country.\"\n\nIn a note to the US bank's clients, JP Morgan Senior Western Europe economist Malcolm Barr wrote: \"Our base case is that Scotland will vote for independence and institute a new currency\" by 2019.\n\nOn 15 July, following her first official talks with Nicola Sturgeon at Bute House, Theresa May said that she was \"willing to listen to options\" on Scotland's future relationship with the European Union and wanted the Scottish government to be \"fully involved\" with discussions, but that Scotland had sent a \"very clear message\" on independence in 2014. Sturgeon said she was \"very pleased\" that May would listen to the Scottish Government, but that it would be \"completely wrong\" to block a referendum if it was wanted by the people of Scotland. Two days later, Sturgeon told the BBC that she would consider holding a referendum for 2017 if the UK began the process of exiting the European Union without Scotland's future being secured. She also suggested it may be possible for Scotland to remain part of the UK while also remaining part of the EU. However, on 20 July, this idea was dismissed by Attorney General Jeremy Wright, who told the House of Commons that no part of the UK had a veto over the Article 50 process.\n\nOn 28 March 2017, the Scottish parliament voted 69-59 in favour of holding a new referendum on Scottish Independence, and on 31 March, Nicola Sturgeon wrote to PM May requesting permission to hold a second referendum.\n\nA referendum on Irish unification has been advocated by Sinn Féin, the largest nationalist/republican party in Ireland, which is represented both in the Northern Ireland Assembly and Dáil Éireann in the Republic of Ireland. Northern Ireland's deputy First Minister, Martin McGuinness of Sinn Féin, called for a referendum on the subject following the UK's vote to leave the EU because the majority of the Northern Irish population voted to remain. The First Minister, Arlene Foster of the Democratic Unionist Party, said that Northern Ireland's status remained secure and that the vote had strengthened the union within the United Kingdom. This was echoed by DUP MLA Ian Paisley Jr., who nevertheless recommended that constituents apply for an Irish passport to retain EU rights.\n\nAlthough Wales voted to leave the European Union, Leanne Wood, the leader of Plaid Cymru suggested that the result had \"changed everything\" and that it was time to begin a debate about independence for Wales. Sources including \"The Guardian\" have noted that opinion polls tend to put the number in favour of Wales seceding from the United Kingdom at 10%, but Wood suggested in a speech shortly after the referendum that attitudes could change following the result: \"The Welsh economy and our constitution face unprecedented challenges. We must explore options that haven’t been properly debated until now.\" On 5 July, a YouGov opinion poll commissioned by ITV Wales indicated that 35% would vote in favour of Welsh independence in the event that it meant Wales could stay in the European Union, but Professor Roger Scully, of Cardiff University's Wales Governance Centre said the poll indicated a \"clear majority\" against Wales ceasing to be part of the UK: “The overall message appears to be that while Brexit might reopen the discussion on Welsh independence there is little sign that the Leave vote in the EU referendum has yet inclined growing numbers of people to vote Leave in a referendum on Welsh independence from the UK.\"\n\nGreater London voted to remain in the EU, and Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said she had spoken to London Mayor Sadiq Khan about the possibility of remaining in the EU and said he shared that objective for London. A petition calling on Khan to declare London independent from the UK received tens of thousands of signatures. The BBC reported the petition as tongue-in-cheek. Supporters of London's independence argued that London's demographic, culture and values are different from the rest of England, and that it should become a city state similar to Singapore, while remaining an EU member state. Spencer Livermore, Baron Livermore, said that London's independence \"should be a goal,\" arguing that a London city-state would have twice the GDP of Singapore. Khan said that complete independence was unrealistic, but demanded devolving more powers and autonomy for London.\n\nSpain's foreign minister José Manuel García-Margallo said \"It's a complete change of outlook that opens up new possibilities on Gibraltar not seen for a very long time. I hope the formula of co-sovereignty – to be clear, the Spanish flag on the Rock – is much closer than before.\" Gibraltar's Chief Minister Fabian Picardo however immediately dismissed García-Margallo's remarks, stating that \"there will be no talks, or even talks about talks, about the sovereignty of Gibraltar\", and asked Gibraltar's citizens \"to ignore these noises\". This is while he was in talks with Nicola Sturgeon, the First Minister of Scotland, to keep Gibraltar in the EU, while remaining British too. He said that \"I can imagine a situation where some parts of what is today the member state United Kingdom are stripped out and others remain.\" Nicola Sturgeon said on the same day that talks were under way with Gibraltar to build a \"common cause\" on EU membership.\n\nThe Republic of Ireland, which shares a land border with the United Kingdom, joined the then European Communities alongside its neighbour on 1 January 1973, and as of 2016, its trade with the UK was worth £840m (€1bn) a week, while as many as 380,000 Irish citizens were employed in the UK. Britain was also a significant contributor towards the 2010 bailout package that was put together in the wake of the banking crisis of the late 2000s. Concerned by the possibility of a UK vote to leave the EU, in 2015, Enda Kenny, the Taoiseach of Ireland, established an office to put together a contingency plan in the event of a Brexit vote.\n\nOn 18 July 2016, \"Bloomberg News\" reported that the UK's vote to leave the EU was having a negative impact on the Republic of Ireland, a country with close economic and cultural ties to the UK. Share prices in Ireland fell after the result, while exporters warned that a weaker UK currency would drive down wages and economic growth in a country still recovering from the effects of the banking crisis. John Bruton, who served as Taoiseach from 1994 to 1997, and later an EU ambassador to the United States, described Britain's vote to leave the European Union as \"the most serious, difficult issue facing the country for 50 years\". Nick Ashmore, head of the Strategic Banking Corporation of Ireland argued the uncertainty caused by the result had made attracting new business lenders into Ireland more difficult. However, John McGrane, director general of the British Irish Chamber of Commerce, said the organisation had been inundated with enquiries from UK firms wishing to explore the feasibility of basing themselves in a country \"with the same language and legal system and with a commitment to staying in the EU\".\n\nOn 21 July, following talks in Dublin, Kenny and French President Francois Hollande issued a joint statement saying they \"looked forward to the notification as soon as possible by the new British government of the UK's intention to withdraw from the Union\" because it would \"permit orderly negotiations to begin\". Hollande also suggested Ireland should secure a \"special situation\" in discussions with European leaders during the UK's European withdrawal negotiations.\n\nMore than a hundred racist abuse and hate crimes were reported in the immediate aftermath of the referendum with many citing the plan to leave the European Union, with police saying there had been a five-fold increase since the vote. On 24 June, a school in Cambridgeshire was vandalised with a sign reading \"Leave the EU. No more Polish vermin.\" Following the referendum result, similar signs were distributed outside homes and schools in Huntingdon, with some left on the cars of Polish residents collecting their children from school. On 26 June, the London office of the Polish Social and Cultural Association was vandalised with racist graffiti. Both incidents were investigated by the police. Other instances of racism occurred as perceived foreigners were targeted in supermarkets, on buses and on street corners, and told to leave the country immediately. The hate crimes were widely condemned by politicians, the UN and religious groups. MEP Daniel Hannan disputed both the accuracy of reporting and connection to the referendum, in turn receiving criticism for rejecting evidence.\n\nOn 8 July 2016, figures released by the National Police Chiefs' Council indicated there were 3,076 reported hate crimes and incidents across England, Wales and Northern Ireland between 16–30 June, compared to 2,161 for the same period in 2015, a 42% increase; the number of incidents peaked on 25 June, when there were 289 reported cases. Assistant Chief Constable Mark Hamilton, the council's lead on hate crime, described the \"sharp rise\" as unacceptable. The figures were reported to have shown the greatest increase in areas that voted strongly to leave.\n\nWithin hours of the result's announcement, a petition, calling for a second referendum to be held in the event that a result was secured with less than 60% of the vote and on a turnout of less than 75%, attracted tens of thousands of new signatures. The petition had been initiated by William Oliver Healey of the English Democrats on 24 May 2016, when the Remain faction had been leading in the polls, and had received 22 signatures prior to the referendum result being declared. On 26 June, Healey said that the petition had actually been started to favour an exit from the EU and that he was a strong supporter of the Vote Leave and Grassroots Out campaigns. Healey also said that the petition had been \"hijacked by the remain campaign\". English Democrats chairman Robin Tilbrook suggested those who had signed the petition were experiencing \"sour grapes\" about the result of the referendum.\n\nBy late July it had attracted over 4 million signatures, about one quarter of the total number of remain votes in the referendum and over forty times the 100,000 needed for any petition to be considered for debate in Parliament. As many as a thousand signatures per minute were being added during the day after the referendum vote, causing the website to crash on several occasions. Some of the signatories had abstained from voting or had voted leave but regretted their decision, in what the media dubbed \"bregret\", or \"regrexit\" at the result.\n\nNo previous government petition had attracted as many signatures, but it was reported that the House of Commons Petitions Committee were investigating allegations of fraud. Chair of that committee, Helen Jones, said that the allegations were being taken seriously, and any signatures found to be fraudulent would be removed from the petition: \"People adding fraudulent signatures to this petition should know that they undermine the cause they pretend to support.\" By the afternoon of 26 June the House of Commons' petitions committee said that it had removed \"about 77,000 signatures which were added fraudulently\" and that it would continue to monitor the petition for \"suspicious activity\"; almost 40,000 signatures seemed to have come from the Vatican City, which has a population of under 1,000. Hackers from 4chan claimed that they had added the signatures with the use of automated bots, and that it was done as a prank.\n\nOn 8 July, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office sent an email to all signatories of the petition setting out the government's position. It rejected calls for a second referendum: \"Prime Minister and Government have been clear that this was a once in a generation vote and, as the Prime Minister has said, the decision must be respected.\" On 12 July the Committee scheduled a debate on the petition for 5 September because of the \"huge number\" of people who had signed it, but stressed that this did not mean it was backing calls for a second referendum. The debate, held in Westminster Hall, the House of Commons' second chamber, does not have the power to change the law; a spokesman for the Committee said that the debate would not pave the way for Parliament to decide on holding a second referendum. The petition closed on 26 November 2016, having received 4,150,259 signatures.\n\nThe TUC fears that any Brexit deal the government might make could harm workers' interests and lead to workers in many industries losing their jobs. Frances O'Grady of the TUC said that unless the government provides a deal that is good for working people, the TUC will strongly support calls for a second referendum. O'Grady said, \"I want to serve notice to the prime minister today that if we don't get the deal that working people need, then the TUC will be throwing our full weight behind a campaign for a popular vote so that people get a say on whether that deal is good enough or not,\"\n\nThe petition initiated a debate over the legitimacy of holding a second referendum. BBC political correspondent Iain Watson argued that since the petition requests a piece of retrospective legislation, it is unlikely to be enacted, while David Cameron had previously ruled out holding a second referendum, calling it \"a once-in-a-lifetime event\". However, Jolyon Maugham QC, a barrister specialising in tax law, argued that a second referendum on EU membership could be triggered by one of two scenarios: following a snap general election won by one or more parties standing on a remain platform, or as a result of parliament deciding that circumstances had changed significantly enough to require a fresh mandate. Maugham cited several instances in which a country's electorate have been asked to reconsider the outcome of a referendum relating to the EU, among them the two Treaty of Lisbon referendums held in Ireland, in 2008 and 2009.\n\nHistorian Vernon Bogdanor said that a second referendum would be \"highly unlikely\", and suggested governments would be cautious about holding referendums in future, but argued it could happen if the EU rethought some of its policies, such as those regarding the free movement of workers. Political scientist John Curtice agreed that a change of circumstances could result in another referendum, but said the petition would have little effect. BBC legal correspondent Clive Coleman argued that a second referendum was \"constitutionally possible [but] politically unthinkable. It would take something akin to a revolution and full-blown constitutional crisis for it to happen\". Conservative MP Dominic Grieve, a former Attorney General for England and Wales said that although the government should respect the result of the referendum, \"it is of course possible that it will become apparent with the passage of time that public opinion has shifted on the matter. If so a second referendum may be justified.\" Barristers Belinda McRae and Andrew Lodder argued the referendum \"is wrongly being treated as a majority vote for the terms of exit that Britain can negotiate [with] the EU\" when the public were not asked about the terms of exiting the EU, so a second referendum would be needed on that issue. Richard Dawkins argued that if a second referendum upheld the result of the first, it would \"unite the country behind Brexit\". However, political scientist Liubomir K. Topaloff argued that a second referendum would \"surely destroy the EU\" because the resulting anger of Leave supporters in the UK would spread anti-EU sentiment in other countries.\n\nOn 26 June, former prime minister Tony Blair said the option of holding a second referendum should not be ruled out. A week later he suggested the will of the people could change, and that Parliament should reflect that. Alastair Campbell, the Downing Street Director of Communications under Blair called for a second referendum setting out \"the terms on which we leave. And the terms on which we could remain\". Labour MP David Lammy commented that, as the referendum was advisory, Parliament should vote on whether to leave the EU. On 1 July, Shadow chancellor John McDonnell outlined Labour's vision for leaving the EU, saying that Britain had to respect the decision that was made in the referendum.\n\nFollowing the first post-referendum meeting of the Cabinet on 27 June, a spokesman for the Prime Minister said that the possibility of a second referendum was \"not remotely on the cards. There was a decisive result [in the EU referendum]. The focus of the Cabinet discussion was how we get on and deliver that.\" Theresa May also ruled out the possibility at the launch of her campaign to succeed Cameron. On 28 June, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt raised the possibility of a second referendum, but said that it would be about the terms of the UK's exit from the European Union rather than on the issue of EU membership. Labour MP Geraint Davies also suggested that a second referendum would focus on the terms of an exit plan, with a default of remaining in the EU if it were rejected. Citing a poll published in the week after the referendum that indicated as many as 1.1 million people who voted to leave the EU regretted their decision, he tabled an early day motion calling for an exit package referendum.\n\nOn 26 June it was reported that Conservative grandee Michael Heseltine was suggesting that a second referendum should take place after Brexit negotiations, pointing to the overwhelming majority in the House of Commons against leaving the EU. On 13 July, Labour leadership candidate Owen Smith said that he would offer a second referendum on the terms of EU withdrawal if elected to lead the party.\n\nThe outcome of the referendum was debated by the Church of England's General Synod on 8 July, where Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby ruled out supporting a second referendum. The idea of a second referendum was also rejected by Plaid Cymru leader Leanne Wood, who favoured a general election following negotiations instead. Sammy Wilson, a Democratic Unionist Party MP likened those calling for a second referendum to fascists, saying \"They don't wish to have the democratic wishes of the people honoured... They wish to have only their views.\"\n\nOn 8 July 2016, an ORB poll indicated 40% support for a referendum on the terms of withdrawal from the EU. On 16 July 2016, a ComRes poll indicated 57% opposed to a second referendum, with 29% in favour. On 27 July 2018, a YouGov poll indicated a slim majority in favour of a second referendum.\n\nPro-EU demonstrations took place in the days following the referendum result. On 24 June, protesters gathered in cities across the UK, including London, Edinburgh and Glasgow. At one demonstration in London hundreds of protesters marched on the headquarters of News UK to protest against \"anti-immigration politics\". Protesters on bicycles angry at the result attempted to block Boris Johnson's car as he was leaving his home on the morning of 24 June, while campaigners aged 18–25, as well as some teenagers under the age of majority, staged a protest outside Parliament.\n\nOn 28 June, up to 50,000 people attended Stand Together, a pro-EU demonstration organised for London's Trafalgar Square, despite the event having been officially cancelled amid safety concerns. The organiser had announced the rally on social media, with a view to bringing \"20 friends together\", but urged people not to attend as the number of people expressing interest reached 50,000. The meeting was addressed by Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron before protesters made their way to Whitehall. A similar event in Cardiff was addressed by speakers including Plaid Cymru leader Leanne Wood. On 2 July, around 50,000 demonstrators marched in London to show support for the EU and to demand that Britain continues to co-operate with other European states. A similar event was held in Edinburgh outside the Scottish Parliament building.\n\nOn 8 July 2016, and in response to the referendum result, \"The New European\", was launched with an initial print run of 200,000. This is a national weekly newspaper aimed at people who voted to remain in the EU, which its editor felt had not been represented by the traditional media, and remains in print as of December 2017.\n\nSome Brexit supporters such as David Davies, Steve Double, William Wragg and Sir David Amess called for the Brexit referendum result on 23 June 2016 to be recognised as British Independence Day and be made a public holiday in the United Kingdom. The concept was widely used in social media, with the BBC naming it as one of \"Five social media trends after Brexit vote\". With support from Conservative MP Nigel Evans, an online petition on the UK Parliament government website calling for the date to be \"designated as Independence Day, and celebrated annually\" reached sufficient signatures to trigger a government response, which stated there were \"no current plans to create another public holiday\".\n\nOn 5 September 2017, a number of Conservative MPs backed MP Peter Bone's June Bank Holiday (Creation) Bill in the House of Commons, for the Brexit referendum date to be a UK-wide public holiday. The bill proposes that \"June 23 or the subsequent weekday when June 23 falls at a weekend\" should serve as a national holiday.\n\nOn 9 May 2016, Leave.EU was fined £50,000 by the UK Information Commissioner's Office 'for failing to follow the rules about sending marketing messages': they sent people text messages without having first gained their permission to do so.\n\nOn 4 March 2017, the Information Commissioner's Office also reported that it was 'conducting a wide assessment of the data-protection risks arising from the use of data analytics, including for political purposes' in relation to the Brexit campaign. It was specified that among the organisations to be investigated was Cambridge Analytica and its relationship with the Leave.EU campaign. The findings are expected to be published sometime in 2017.\n\nOn 21 April 2017, the Electoral Commission announced that it was investigating 'whether one or more donations – including of services – accepted by Leave.EU was impermissible; and whether Leave.EU’s spending return was complete', because 'there were reasonable grounds to suspect that potential offences under the law may have occurred'.\n\nIn the run up to the Brexit referendum, Prime Minister David Cameron suggested that Russia \"might be happy\" with a positive Brexit vote, while the Remain campaign accused the Kremlin of secretly backing a positive Brexit vote. In December 2016, Ben Bradshaw MP claimed in Parliament that it was \"highly probable\" that Russia had interfered in the Brexit referendum campaign. In February 2017, Bradshaw called on the British intelligence service, Government Communications Headquarters, currently under Boris Johnson as Foreign Secretary, to reveal the information it had on Russian interference.\n\nIn April 2017, the House of Commons Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee issued a report stating that Russian and foreign interference in the referendum was probable, including the shut down of the government voter registration website immediately before the vote. In May 2017, it was reported by the \"Irish Times\" that £425,622 had potentially been donated by sources in Saudi Arabia to the \"vote leave\" supporting Democratic Unionist Party for spending during the referendum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1872258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1872258", "title": "Albion P. Howe", "text": "Albion P. Howe\n\nAlbion Parris Howe (March 13, 1818 – January 25, 1897) was a Union Army general in the American Civil War. Howe's contentious relationships with superior officers in the Army of the Potomac eventually led to his being deprived of division command.\n\nHowe was born in Standish, Maine. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1841. After serving in the 4th U.S. Artillery for two years, he taught mathematics at the U.S. Military Academy for three years. \n\nHowe served in the Mexican War and was awarded a brevet promotion in 1847 to the rank of captain for gallantry during Winfield Scott's advance upon Mexico City, especially for his actions at the Battle of Contreras and the Battle of Churubusco. He was promoted to the rank of captain on March 2, 1855. Howe served under Robert E. Lee during the suppression of John Brown at Harpers Ferry.\n\nAt the beginning of the Civil War, Howe served under Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan in western Virginia. He took command of John J. Peck's 3rd Brigade, (55th New York, 62nd New York, and the 93rd, 98th, and 102nd Pennsylvania regiments) Couch's 1st Division, Keyes's IV Corps during the Seven Days Battles, after Peck was promoted to command of Silas Casey's Division of the same corps. Howe received the brevet rank of major in the regular army for his role at the Battle of Malvern Hill. He was promoted to the rank of brigadier general in the volunteer service on June 11, 1862.\n\nIn the subsequent campaigns of the Army of the Potomac, Howe fought in the Battle of South Mountain and was present at the Battle of Antietam. He was promoted to command 2nd Division, VI Corps, leading it at the Battle of Fredericksburg. His division was heavily engaged at Fredericksburg and Salem Church during the Chancellorsville Campaign. Howe's division led a reconnaissance in the vicinity of Fredericksburg on June 3, 1863, as the Union high command tried to determine whether the Army of Northern Virginia was moving out of its positions to undertake an offensive. It was only minimally engaged in the campaign culminating in the Battle of Gettysburg. His division was the last to reach the battlefield and his two brigades were assigned to opposite ends of the Union line, leaving him effectively without a command. During the pursuit of Lee's retreating army, the 1st Vermont Brigade of Howe's division fought the Confederate rear guard near Funkstown, Maryland, on July 10, 1863. Howe continued in division command during the Bristoe Campaign and the Mine Run Campaign. \n\nHowe was removed from command by Maj. Gen. George G. Meade shortly thereafter. Howe's bad relationship with his corps commander, Maj. Gen. John Sedgwick, including support of Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker in the controversies that were spawned by the Union defeat at Chancellorsville, probably contributed to this removal. Meade, if he did not initiate Howe's removal, at least did not oppose it. Howe testified against Meade and Sedgwick before the Joint Committee on the Conduct of the War, claiming Sedgwick spoke to him about retreating to Westminster, Maryland. Sedgwick's testimony before the committee contradicted Howe's without naming him. The committee did not pursue this contradiction. What is clear is that Sedgwick sought the services of Brig. Gen. George W. Getty to replace Howe in command of the 2nd Division.\n\nAfter leaving the Army of the Potomac, Howe commanded the artillery depot in Washington, D.C. He was in the field briefly at Harpers Ferry, opposing the raid on Washington by Confederate Lieutenant General Jubal Early.\n\nAt the close of the war, Howe served in the honor guard that stood watch over the corpse of Abraham Lincoln, and soon afterward was appointed as a member of the military commission that tried the Lincoln conspirators. Howe did not make any public comments on the conviction or hanging of Mary E. Surratt, but was not among the five officers who petitioned President Andrew Johnson to commute her sentence to life in prison. Both assignments may indicate that the Radical Republican faction in the Congress found him useful and sympathetic. He also served in the Freedmen's Bureau in 1865. Howe was mustered out of the volunteer service on July 15, 1866.\n\nHowe retired from the Army on June 30, 1882, at the rank of colonel. He was a veteran companion of the Massachusetts Commandery of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States. He died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and is buried there in Mount Auburn Cemetery.\n\nHowe was married to Elizabeth, daughter of Andrew Mahaffey, a superintendent of the Pennsylvania Railroad, and Elizabeth McPherson. They had six children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5898817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5898817", "title": "Annecy International Animated Film Festival", "text": "Annecy International Animated Film Festival\n\nThe Annecy International Animation Film Festival (French: Festival International du Film d'Animation d'Annecy, abbreviated as AIAFF) was created in 1960 and takes place at the beginning of June in the town of Annecy, France. Initially occurring every two years, the festival became an annual event in 1998. It is one of the four international animated film festivals sponsored by the \"Association Internationale du Film d'Animation\" (or ASIFA, the International Animated Film Association).\n\nThe festival is a competition between cartoon films of various techniques (animated drawings, cut-out papers, modelling clay, etc.) classified in various categories:\n\nThroughout the festival, in addition to the competing films projected in various cinemas of the city, an open-air night projection is organized on Pâquier, in the centre of town, amongst the lake and with the mountains. According to the topic of the festival, classic or recent films are projected upon the giant screen. On Saturday evening, all the award winners are presented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1178793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178793", "title": "Ati-Atihan festival", "text": "Ati-Atihan festival\n\nThe Ati-Atihan Festival is a feast held annually in January in honor of the Santo Niño (Infant Jesus), concluding on the third Sunday, in the town of Kalibo, Aklan in the island of Panay, Philippines. The name \"Ati-Atihan\" means \"to be like Atis\" or \"to make believe Atis\", the local name for the Aeta aborigines who first settled in Panay Island and other parts of the archipelago.\n\nThe festival consists of tribal dance, music, accompanied by indigenous costumes and weapons, and parade along the street. Christians and non-Christians observe this day with religious processions. It has inspired many other Philippine Festivals including the Sinulog Festival of Cebu and Dinagyang of Iloilo City, both adaptations of the Kalibo's Ati-Atihan Festival, and legally holds the title \"The Mother of All Philippine Festivals\" in spite of the other two festivals' claims of the same title.\n\nA 1200 A.D. event explains the origins of the festival. A group of 10 Malay chieftains called \"Datus\", fleeing from the island of Borneo settled in the Philippines, and were granted settlement by the Ati people, the tribes of Panay Island. Datu Puti, minister made a trade with the natives and bought the plains for a golden salakot, brass basins and bales of cloth. They gave a very long necklace to the wife of the Ati chieftain. Feasting and festivities followed soon after. \n\nSome time later, the Ati people were struggling with famine as the result of a bad harvest. They were forced to descend from their mountain village into the settlement below, to seek the generosity of the people who now lived there. The \"Datus\" obliged and gave them food. In return, the Ati danced and sang for them, grateful for the gifts they had been given.\n\nThe misoln was originally a pagan festival from this tribe practicing Animism, and their worshiping their anito god. Spanish missionaries gradually added a Christian meaning. Today, the Ati-Atihan is celebrated as a religious festival.\n\nIn 2012, the National Commission for Culture and the Arts (NCCA) and the ICHCAP of UNESCO published \"Pinagmulan: Enumeration from the Philippine Inventory of Intangible Cultural Heritage\". The first edition of the UNESCO-backed book included the \"Ati-atihan Festival\", signifying its great importance to Philippine intangible cultural heritage. The local government of Aklan, in coopration with the NCCA, is given the right to nominate the Ati-atihan Festival in the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists.\n\n The people attend masses for the \"Santo Niño\", and benefit dances sponsored by government organizations. The formal opening mass emphasizes the festival’s religious event. The procession begins with a rhythmic drumbeats, and dances parading along the street. The second day begins at dawn with a rosary procession, which ends with a community mass, and procession. The phrase \"Hala Bira! Pwera Pasma!\" is originally associated with the Sto. Nino Ati-Atihan Festival as the revelers and devotees keep on going with the festivities all over the town from morning to the wee hours of the next morning, rain or shine, for one week or even more. They believe that the miraculous Child Jesus will protect them from harm and illness. The highlight of the festival occurs on the last day, the third Sunday of January, when groups representing different tribes compete for tourists' attention and prizes. The festival ends with a procession of thousands of people carrying torches and different kinds of images of the Santo Niño. The contest winners are announced at a masquerade ball which officially ends the festival.\n\nOther towns in Aklan with Ati-Atihan Festival:\nIbajay, Malinao, Makato, Batan, Altavas, Boracay (Malay).\n\nOther festivals held in the region with similar themes include:\n\n"}
{"id": "38433006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38433006", "title": "Cominform", "text": "Cominform\n\nFounded on October 5, 1947, Cominform (from Communist Information Bureau) is the common name for what was officially referred to as the Information Bureau of the Communist and Workers' Parties. It was the first official forum of the International Communist Movement since the dissolution of the Comintern and confirmed the new realities after World War II, including the creation of an Eastern Bloc. \n\nThe intended purpose of Cominform was to coordinate actions between Communist parties under Soviet direction. It was not intended to be a replacement or successor to the Comintern. The Cominform was not a world Communist party, it did not have subordinates or power, other than its publication. It had its own newspaper, \"For Lasting Peace, for People's Democracy!\" It limited itself to one goal: \"to organize an exchange of experience, and where necessary to coordinate the activity of the Communist parties, on the basis of mutual agreement.\" In other aspects, Cominform was also used to repel anti-communist expansion. The French and Italian parties were tasked specifically with the obstruction of the implementation of the Marshall Plan and the Truman Doctrine. Cominform divided the world into imperialist and anti-imperialist.\n\nCominform was a Soviet-dominated organization of Communist parties founded in September 1947 at a conference of Communist party leaders in Szklarska Poręba, Poland. It was founded with nine members, the Communist parties of the U.S.S.R., Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Yugoslavia, France, and Italy. Soviet leader Joseph Stalin called the conference in response to divergences among communist governments on whether or not to attend the Paris Conference on the Marshall Plan in July 1947. \n\nCominform was initially located in Belgrade (then the capital of the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia). After the expulsion of Yugoslavia from the group in June 1948, the seat was moved to Bucharest, Romania. The expulsion of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia from Cominform for \"Titoism\" initiated the \"Informbiro period\" in that country's history. One of the most decisive factors that led to the expulsion of Yugoslavia was their commitment to the insurgency in Greece, and their decision to station troops in Albania.\n\nThe newspaper was published in several languages. It was originally printed in Belgrade; it was moved to Bucharest after the expulsion of the Yugoslavian party. A vast array of articles was published, including some from the Canadian Communist Party.\n\nThe Cominform was dissolved on April 17, 1956, after the Soviet rapprochement with Yugoslavia and the process of De-Stalinization.\n\nThere are four recorded meetings of the Cominform, before 1956. The first was the founding meeting. This occurred in Poland, 1947. Members present at the first meeting were Kardelj and Djilas for Yugoslavia, Chervenkov and Poptomov for Bulgaria, Gheorghiu-Dej and Anna Pauker for Romania, Farkas and Revai for Hungary, Gomulka and Minc for Poland, Zhdanov and Malenkov for the U.S.S.R., Duclos and Frajon for France, Slánský and Bastovanski for Czechoslovakia, and Longo and Reala for Italy. Zhdanov was chairman, Gomulka was appointed vice-chairman. \n\nThe second meeting occurred in Yugoslavia in January 1948. During this meeting, a permanent editorial board was chosen for the newspaper. This editorial board was under the leadership of Yugoslav national, P. Yudin. He was succeeded by U.S.S.R. national, M. Mitin, after the Yugoslavian expulsion. A third meeting occurred in Romania in June 1948. This resulted in the expulsion of the Yugoslav Communist party. Lastly, the fourth meeting was held in Hungary in November 1949.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16782596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16782596", "title": "Dalles des Morts", "text": "Dalles des Morts\n\nDalles des Morts, also known as Death Rapids in English, was a famously violent stretch of the Columbia River upstream from Revelstoke, British Columbia, Canada, now submerged beneath the waters of the Lake Revelstoke Reservoir.\n\nThe rapids acquired their name after a dark series of events in 1817, when a crew of North West Company voyageurs lost their canoes and food during a traverse of the rapids and were forced to attempt the overland journey to Spokane House, with only one survivor being rescued by local native people after a harrowing survival ordeal, and a confession of cannibalistic survival:\nDalles des Morts [mis-spelled \"Dalle de Mort\" on Trutch's 1871 map of British Columbia.] The French form originated with NWC voyageurs in 1817, when seven men were wrecked here and all their food was lost. They began walking along the river hoping to reach Spokane House, the nearest establishment, over away. High water forced them up into the almost impenetrable forest. One by one they died, the survivors resorting to cannibalism. The last one was found by Indians on the shore of Upper Arrow lake and was taken to Kettle Falls, whence he was conducted to Spokane House. His story that he had killed his last companion in self defence was not believed, and he was dismissed from the NWC service, escaping more serious punishment owing to lack of evidence against him.\n\nSource: Provincial Archives of BC \"Place Names File\" compiled 1945-1950 by A.G. Harvey from various sources, with subsequent additions \n\n\"In 1817 a party of seven Nor'westers was sent back to Spokane House [from Boat Encampment] because they were too ill to traverse the Rocky Mountains with the rest of the party. Their canoes and provisions were lost at the rapids here. Without supplies, they proceeded on foot very slowly, as they were weak and had only water for sustenance (there being no berries at this time of year). On the third day, the first man died and his remains were eventually eaten by the survivors. This continued until only two men were left, La Pierre and Dubois. Only La Pierre was found alive and he maintained that Dubois had attempted to kill him, but he had succeeded in overpowering and killing him in self defence. La Pierre's story was doubted, but he couldn't be convicted on the evidence.\" (from Adventures on the Columbia River by Ross Cox; London, 1831; vol 2, p.184-84) See also The Kootenays in Retrospect, vol 1: Columbia River Chronicles, Edward Affleck, editor, 1976.\nIn 1838, another even greater tragedy befell the annual York Factory Express of the Hudson's Bay Company, an annual shipment of goods, books, personnel and mail between York Factory and Fort Vancouver, a tradition that had continued an earlier annual journey by North West Company staff from Fort George to Fort William on Lake Superior. The westbound journey was known as the Autumn Express because of the time of year of its schedule, and also as the Columbia Express due to its destination (referring as much to the Columbia Department as to the Columbia River). The 1838 Express had had a difficult journey from Fort Edmonton, and the party contained an unruly upper-crust greenhorn who had eloped with one of the daughters of HBC Governor Simpson, who during an ill-advised transit of the rapids panicked and jumped from the canoe with his wife in his arms, upsetting the canoe in the process and resulting in the death of all but one who had been aboard, including himself and his wife but sparing Matooskie, a native woman in the party who had lost her child in the journey via Athabasca Pass. She made her way to Fort of the Lakes, at the head of Upper Arrow, and was taken to Fort Colville with her story.\n\nDuring the Big Bend Gold Rush from 1865 on, the Dalles des Morts marked the head of steamboat navigation on a route that stretched from Marcus, Washington Terr. via the Arrow Lakes and their Narrows to the port-boomtown of La Porte, which lay at the foot of the rapids, and also at the foot of the portage to the goldfields on the creeks flanking the Goldstream River, which joined the Columbia only a few miles above the rapids, around which a portage from La Porte became necessary. (the other main goldfields of the rush were along Downie Creek, which joined the Columbia just below La Porte, where another town, Downie Creek survived as a settled locality until the inundation; La Porte did not) The first run by the steamer Forty-Nine was in 1865 but made it only as far as the Narrows due to heavy ice, but the next year the steamer braved the rapids of the Narrows and in 1866 began regular service from Marcus to La Porte for the duration of the gold rush. The other main route to the rush was via Pettipiece Pass from Seymour Arm on Shuswap Lake, another port town which sprang up at the end of the steamboat route from Savona's Ferry at the farther end of Kamloops Lake and accessed by a newly built but easy road from Cache Creek via the Semlin Valley to Savona's Ferry, today's town of Savona. From Kamloops Lake the route ran via the South Thompson River, Little Shuswap Lake, and the Little River. Still others came to the goldfields on the longer route around the Big Bend from the East Kootenay and the Wild Horse Creek Gold Rush and Montana.\n\nThe name was formally registered in English as Death Rapids on December 12, 1939, but rescinded on April 3, 1986, upon the inundation of the site by the reservoir. Joseph Trutch's 1870s map uses the mistaken \"Dalle des Morts\". A \"dalles\" is a term from French as used by the \"voyageurs\" in the Pacific Northwest, adapted from the usual meaning of \"dalle\" as a flagstone, or in other contexts as a gutter on a ship's deck or bridge for the purpose of draining excess water. The context of \"river rapids\" does not turn up in French dictionaries, but appears to be a local variation on the usual meanings, a pun on the staircase-like stones underneath some rapids and also on the rapidly draining narrow chutes that typify a \"Dalles\". In the case of Dalles des Morts, the pun carries the extra weight of \"gravestone\", as that is the usual meaning of the phrase in French.\n\nThe more famous \"Dalles\" in the Pacific Northwest is the namesake of The Dalles, Oregon, which was the site of the Grand Dalles de la Columbia and also the Petites Dalles or Little Dalles before the inundation of that portion of the Columbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25129766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25129766", "title": "Dark Shadows (film)", "text": "Dark Shadows (film)\n\nDark Shadows is a 2012 American horror comedy film based on the gothic television soap opera of the same name. It was directed by Tim Burton and stars Johnny Depp, Michelle Pfeiffer, Helena Bonham Carter, Eva Green, Jackie Earle Haley, Jonny Lee Miller, Chloë Grace Moretz, and Bella Heathcote in a dual role. The film had a limited release on May 10, 2012, and was officially released the following day in the United States.\n\nThe film performed disappointingly at the United States box office, but did well in foreign markets. The film received mixed reviews; critics praised its visual style and consistent humor but felt it lacked a focused or substantial plot and developed characters. The film was produced by Richard D. Zanuck, who died two months after its release. It featured the final appearance of original series actor Jonathan Frid, who died shortly before its release. It was the 200th film appearance of actor Christopher Lee, and his fifth appearance in a Burton film.\n\nIn 1760, the Collins family moves from Liverpool, England to Maine and establishes the fishing town Collinsport, where they build their estate, Collinwood.\n\nWhen he first arrives, the young son Barnabas meets the young Angelique Bouchard, who instantly becomes besotted with him. Angelique's mother, a witch, warns her against socialising with people of noble birth; however, this does not stop Angelique from following the family for many years, hoping to be loved by Barnabas, but to no avail.\n\nBy 1776, Barnabas (Johnny Depp), now a grown man, falls in love with a young woman named Josette du Pres (Bella Heathcote), scorning Angelique (Eva Green), who works as a maid in his household. Turning to black magic, Angelique curses the Collins family, first by killing Barnabas's parents (Ivan Kaye and Susanna Cappellaro) in an assumed accident, then by enchanting Josette to leap to her death from a seaside cliff called Widow's Hill. In a fit of grief, Barnabas attempts to leap to his own death but fails, as Angelique curses him to the immortal life of a vampire. When he still rejects her advances, she turns the town against him, and he is buried alive in a coffin.\n\n196 years later, in 1972, a young Maggie Evans (also Bella Heathcote), under the assumed identity of \"Victoria Winters\", applies for a job as a governess at Collinwood and meets with the current reclusive matriarch, Elizabeth Collins Stoddard (Michelle Pfeiffer). Her nephew David (Gully McGrath), for whom Victoria will be caring, believes his mother, who drowned in a boating accident, still visits him. Victoria does not divulge that since her young age she, too, can see ghosts.\n\nAfter meeting with David, his live-in psychiatrist Julia Hoffman (Helena Bonham Carter), his father Roger (Jonny Lee Miller), and Elizabeth's rebellious daughter Carolyn (Chloë Grace Moretz), Victoria is hired by Elizabeth. That night, Victoria sees the ghost of Josette, who warns that \"he's coming\" before disappearing after falling from a chandelier.\n\nElsewhere, a group of construction workers dig up Barnabas's coffin and inadvertently free him. After satiating his bloodthirst of 196 years and shocked by the modern times he finds himself in, Barnabas returns to Collinwood, and hypnotizes the groundskeeper, Willie Loomis (Jackie Earle Haley), as his personal Renfield, and introduces himself to the family as a \"distant relative\". Elizabeth believes him to be a con-man until he reveals hidden riches buried in a secret passage within the house, whereas Elizabeth thought the family to be destitute. After realising who and what Barnabas is, she asks him to keep it a secret to protect the children of his true nature, passing him off as his own descendant, \"Barnabas Collins III\".\n\nDuring his breakfast with his newfound family, Barnabas is instantly smitten with Victoria when he meets her as she resembles Josette. Resolved to honorably win her heart, he seeks out Carolyn's advice on courting her. Angelique, now an immortal witch herself and Elizabeth's rival, learns of Barnabas' resurgence and visits him, informing him that she now has taken over Collinsport as a member of the upstanding community. In retaliation, Barnabas reopens the Collins Cannery family business and uses hypnosis to steal several of the fisherman crews who work for Angelique. As a result, she tries to buy him off. However, even after an episode of supernatural lust between the two, he rejects her offer. Meanwhile, Julia later discovers his identity by hypnotizing him and offers to cure his vampiric condition via blood transfusions.\n\nAfter successfully restoring the family fortune and business, Barnabas decides to hold a ball to reintroduce the family to the townsfolk with Carolyn suggesting that they make it a happening with musician Alice Cooper as the headliner. During the ball, Barnabas catches Roger stealing from guest's coats and later finds Victoria gazing out from a balcony. Feeling comfortable around him, Victoria confides to Barnabas that she's actually an escapee from the mental asylum where her parents had her confined since she was a child due to her powers. Meanwhile, Angelique makes a grand appearance in order to see Barnabas. When she catches him and Victoria kissing, she becomes even more embittered.\n\nMotivated after Victoria reciprocated his feelings, Barnabas seeks out Julia (wishing even more desperately to be mortal again), only to find out that the latter has been using his blood to make herself immortal. Feeling betrayed, he drains her and dumps her seemingly dead body into the town bay with Willie's help. After catching Roger trying to break into the secret passage, Barnabas gives him a choice: to stay and be an exemplary father to David or to leave with enough money to live his thieving life elsewhere. Roger chooses the latter, anguishing David. Barnabas's true identity is finally revealed to the rest of the family and Victoria when he saves David from a falling disco ball. Victoria is scared by the revelation and runs away.\n\nUpset, Barnabas barges into Angelique's office to demand her to release him from his curse, and while she offers him blood due to her knowing that Julia is no longer around to provide him blood transfusions, she also threatens to send Victoria off Widow's Hill, the same way she did to Josette, and offers him an ultimatum: Either become partners and lovers with her or be locked in a coffin again. With Barnabas rejecting the former, she proceeds to do the latter, this time placing him in the Collins Family Mausoleum. Shortly after, he is found and freed by David, alerted by his mother's ghost, and they return towards the mansion. Meanwhile, Angelique destroys the Collins Cannery and implicates Barnabas in the murders of Julia and all the people he had to feed on, turning the townsfolk against the family.\n\nAt the mansion, Barnabas and Elizabeth see the police, Angelique, and the angry mob approaching as Carolyn withdraws into the mansion. Willing to turn himself in as long as she goes along with him, Barnabas reveals his and Angelique's true natures in front of an angry mob and a fight ensues, pitting Barnabas and Elizabeth against Angelique. During the fight (following the mob's departure upon these revelations), Carolyn reveals to her family that she is a werewolf and joins her family in their battle against Angelique, but a fire later breaks out in the house. Ultimately, the ghost of David's mother (Josephine Butler) manages to hurl Angelique against the chandelier, which then falls to the ground, mortally wounding her as she starts to shatter. She reaches into her chest and literally offers her heart to Barnabas this time as it shatters as well, resulting in her death. Concerned for Victoria's well-being, Barnabas storms off to look for her as David informs him through his mother that she's headed towards Widow's Hill. As David asks Elizabeth what they will do now, Elizabeth says that they will do what they've always done as the Collins family: \"Endure.\"\n\nAfter catching up to Victoria at Widow's Hill, Barnabas stops her from leaping and refuses to turn her into a vampire to save her from eternal suffering as an immortal, despite her request. Touched, Victoria throws herself from its cliffs anyway, resulting in Barnabas leaping after her and biting her, so that she can survive the fall as a vampire. She awakens, asking him to call her Josette, and the two kiss passionately on the rocky shore.\n\nThe closing scene is at the bottom of the bay as Julia opens her eyes to her new immortal life.\n\n\nAt the San Diego Comic-Con 2011, it was also confirmed that four actors from the original series appear in the film. In June 2011, Jonathan Frid, Lara Parker, David Selby and Kathryn Leigh Scott all spent three days at Pinewood Studios to film cameo appearances. They all appeared as party guests during a ball held at Collinswood Manor. Frid died in April 2012, making this his final film appearance.\n\nIn July 2007, Warner Bros. acquired film rights for the gothic soap opera \"Dark Shadows\" from the estate of its creator Dan Curtis. Johnny Depp had a childhood obsession with \"Dark Shadows\", calling it a \"dream\" to portray Barnabas Collins, and ended up persuading Burton to direct. The project's development was delayed by the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. After the strike was resolved, Tim Burton was attached to direct the film. By 2009, screenwriter John August was writing a screenplay for \"Dark Shadows\". In 2010, author and screenwriter Seth Grahame-Smith replaced August in writing the screenplay. August did, however, receive story credit with Smith for his contribution to the film. Filming began in May 2011. It was filmed entirely in England, at both Pinewood Studios and on location. Depp attempted to emulate the \"rigidity\" and \"elegance\" of Jonathan Frid's original Barnabas Collins, but also drew inspiration from Max Schreck's performance in \"Nosferatu\".\n\nAdditional crew members and Burton regulars are production designer Rick Heinrichs, costume designer Colleen Atwood, editor Chris Lebenzon and composer Danny Elfman. French cinematographer Bruno Delbonnel — known for his work in \"Amélie\", \"A Very Long Engagement\" and \"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince\" — worked on the project.\n\nThe film was scored by long-time Burton collaborator Danny Elfman. An album featuring 21 tracks of compositions from the film by Elfman was released on May 8, 2012.\n\nThe soundtrack features a score of several contemporaneous 1970s rock and pop songs, along with others from later and slightly earlier, including \"Nights in White Satin\" by The Moody Blues, \"I'm Sick of You\" by Iggy Pop, \"Season of the Witch\" by Donovan, \"Top of the World\" by The Carpenters, \"You're the First, the Last, My Everything\" by Barry White and \"Get It On\" by T. Rex. Alice Cooper, who makes a cameo in the film, sings \"No More Mr. Nice Guy\" and \"Ballad of Dwight Fry\". A cover of the Raspberries' song \"Go All the Way\" by The Killers also plays over the end credits. The soundtrack, featuring 11 songs (including two score pieces by Danny Elfman, and Depp's recitation as Barnabas of several lines from \"The Joker\" by Steve Miller Band) was released on May 8 as a download, and on various dates as a CD, including on May 22 as an import in the United States, and on May 25, 2012 in Australia. Songs not featured on the soundtrack that are in the film include \"Superfly\" by Curtis Mayfield, \"Crocodile Rock\" by Elton John and \"Paranoid\" by Black Sabbath.\n\nThe film grossed $79,727,159 in the United States and Canada, along with $165.8 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $245.5 million. For a Burton film, \"Dark Shadows\" achieved below-average domestic box office takings, with many commentators attributing that to the domination of \"The Avengers\". However, the film was popular overseas; it came second to \"The Avengers\" in most countries in regard to opening box office takings.\n\n\"Dark Shadows\" has received mixed reviews from film critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 37%, based on 233 reviews, with an average rating of 5.3/10. The site's critical consensus reads: \"The visuals are top notch but Tim Burton never finds a consistent rhythm, mixing campy jokes and gothic spookiness with less success than other Johnny Depp collaborations.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 55 out of 100, based on 42 reviews, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nSome critics felt that the film lacked a focused or consistent plot or genre (as either horror, comedy or drama) pointing to Grahame-Smith's script, and that some jokes fell flat. Some further claimed that Tim Burton and Johnny Depp's collaborations have become tired. Many of the same, and other reviewers, however, noted its visual style was impressive.\n\nPositive reviewers, on the other hand, opined that the film \"did\" successfully translate the mood of the soap opera, also acclaiming the actors—most notably Depp as Barnabas, who several said was the stand-out character due to his humorous culture shock, as well as Pfeiffer—and their characters; and further, that the film's '70s culture pastiche worked to its advantage.\n\nRoger Ebert said, \"[The film] offers wonderful things, but they aren't what's important. It's as if Burton directed at arm's length, unwilling to find juice in the story.\" Ebert later noted that \"Much of the amusement comes from Depp's reactions to 1970s pop culture,\" eventually concluding that the film \"begins with great promise, but then the energy drains out,\" giving it two and a half stars out of four. Manohla Dargis, writing for \"The New York Times\", said that it \"isn't among Mr. Burton's most richly realized works, but it's very enjoyable, visually sumptuous and, despite its lugubrious source material and a sporadic tremor of violence, surprisingly effervescent,\" and opined in a mostly positive review that Burton's \"gift for deviant beauty and laughter has its own liberating power.\"\n\n\"Rolling Stone\"s Peter Travers gave the film a mixed two and a half stars, claiming, \"After a fierce and funny start, \"Dark Shadows\" simply spins its wheels,\" and adding that \"the pleasures of \"Dark Shadows\" are frustratingly hit-and-miss. In the end, it all collapses into a spectacularly gorgeous heap.\" In \"The Washington Post\", Ann Hornaday dismissed the film, awarding it just one and a half stars, explaining that \"Burton's mash-up of post-'60s kitsch and modern-day knowingness strikes a chord that is less self-aware than fatally self-satisfied. \"Dark Shadows\" doesn't know where it wants to dwell: in the eerie, subversive penumbra suggested by its title or in playful, go-for-broke camp.\"\n\nRichard Corliss in \"Time\" pointed out that \"[Burton]'s affection is evident, and his homage sometimes acute,\" and reasoned: \"All right, so Burton has made less a revival of the old show than a hit-or-miss parody pageant,\" but praised the star power of the film, relenting that \"attention must be paid to movie allure, in a star like Depp and his current harem. Angelique may be the only Satanist among the women here, but they're all bewitching.\" Peter Bradshaw, in the British newspaper \"The Guardian\", weighed the film in a mixed write-up, giving it three stars out of five, and pointing out his feeling that \"the Gothy, jokey 'darkness' of Burton's style is now beginning to look very familiar; he has built his brand to perfection in the film marketplace, and it is smarter and more distinctive than a lot of what is on offer at the multiplex, but there are no surprises. There are shadows, but they conceal nothing.\"\n\n\"Dark Shadows\" was released on both Blu-ray and DVD in the United States on October 2, 2012, the date confirmed by the official \"Dark Shadows\" Facebook page, and the official \"Dark Shadows\" website. The film was released on both formats several days earlier in Australia; in stores on September 24, and online on September 26, 2012. The film was released on October 15, 2012 in the UK.\n\nThe DVD includes just one featurette, \"The Collinses: Every Family Has Its Demons\", while the Blu-ray contains a total of nine short featurettes and six deleted scenes. Several worldwide releases of both the DVD and Blu-ray contain an UltraViolet digital copy of the film.\n\nOn December 7, 2011, Pfeiffer told MTV that she is hoping sequels will be made for the film. On May 8, 2012, \"Variety\" reported that Warner Bros. may want to turn \"Dark Shadows\" into a film franchise. On the same day, Collider mentioned that the ending lends itself to a possible sequel. When Burton was asked if he thought that this could be a possible start to a franchise, he replied, \"No. Because of the nature of it being like a soap opera, that was the structure. It wasn't a conscious decision. First of all, it's a bit presumptuous to think that. If something works out, that's one thing, but you can't ever predict that. [The ending] had more to do with the soap opera structure of it.\"\n\nThere have been two other feature films based on the soap opera \"Dark Shadows\":\n\n"}
{"id": "887062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=887062", "title": "Donner Pass", "text": "Donner Pass\n\nDonner Pass (el. ) is a mountain pass in the northern Sierra Nevada, above Donner Lake about west of Truckee, California. Like the Sierra Nevada mountains themselves, the pass has a steep approach from the east and a gradual approach from the west.\n\nThe pass has been used by the California Trail, First Transcontinental Railroad, Overland Route, Lincoln Highway and Victory Highway (both later U.S. Route 40 and still later Donner Pass Road), as well as indirectly by Interstate 80.\n\nToday the area is home to a thriving recreational community with several alpine lakes and ski resorts (Donner Ski Ranch, Boreal, and Sugar Bowl). The permanent communities in the area include Kingvale and Soda Springs, as well as the larger community below the pass surrounding Donner Lake.\n\nTo reach California from the east, pioneers had to get their wagons over the Sierra Nevada mountain range. In 1844 the Stephens-Townsend-Murphy Party followed the Truckee River into the mountains. At the head of what is now called Donner Lake, they found a low notch in the mountains and became the first overland settlers to use the pass.\nThe pass was named after a later group of California-bound settlers. In early November 1846 the Donner Party found the route blocked by snow and was forced to spend the winter on the east side of the mountains. Of the 81 settlers, only 45 survived to reach California; some of them resorting to cannibalism to survive.\n\nOn January 13, 1952, 222 passengers and crew aboard a train became stranded about west of Donner Pass at Yuba Pass, on Track #1 adjacent to Tunnel 35 (on Track #2), at about MP 176.5. Southern Pacific Railroad's passenger train \"City of San Francisco\" was en route westbound through the gap when a blizzard dumped so much snow the train was unable to move forward or reverse. The passengers and crew were stranded for three days until the nearby highway could be plowed sufficiently for a caravan of automobiles to carry them the few miles to Nyack Lodge.\n\nIn the spring of 1868, the Sierra Nevada were finally \"conquered\" by the Central Pacific Railroad (CPRR), after almost five years of sustained construction effort, with the successful completion at Donner Pass of its 1,659-foot (506 m) Tunnel #6 and associated grade, thus permitting the establishment of commercial transportation \"en masse\" of passengers and freight over the Sierra for the first time. Following a route first surveyed and proposed by CPRR's original Chief Engineer, Theodore D. Judah (1826–1863), the construction of the four tunnels, several miles of snowsheds and two \"Chinese Walls\" necessary to breach Donner Summit constituted the most difficult engineering and construction challenge of the original Sacramento-Ogden CPRR route.\n\nPrincipally designed and built under the personal, often on-site direction of CPRR's Chief Assistant Engineer, Lewis M. Clement (1837–1914), the original (Track 1) summit grade remained in daily use from June 18, 1868, when the first CPRR passenger train ran through the Summit Tunnel, until 1993 when the Southern Pacific Railroad (SP) (which operated the CPRR-built Oakland-Ogden line until its 1996 merger with the Union Pacific Railroad (UP)) abandoned the 6.7 mile (10.7 km) section of Track #1 over the summit running between the Norden complex (Shed 26, MP 192.1) and the covered crossovers in Shed #47 (MP 198.8), one mile east of the old flyover at Eder. All traffic has since operated over the Track #2 grade crossing the summit south of Donner Pass through the -long Tunnel #41 running under Mount Judah between Soda Springs and Eder. SP made this change because the railroad considered Track 2 and Tunnel 41 (which was opened in 1925 when the summit section of the grade was finally double tracked) to be easier and less expensive to maintain during in the harsh Sierra winters than the Track 1 tunnels and snow sheds over the summit.\n\nIn conjunction with major ongoing upgrades and expansions being made to the Port of Oakland in order to better accommodate the rapidly growing North American trade with Asia and the Pacific, the cooperation of UP, the Port's principal rail partner, has been sought to \"construct a second track and raise tunnel clearances over Donner Pass for container trains linking California with the rest of the country.\" This would likely require either a new parallel tunnel next to Tunnel 41 or the replacement of the summit section of Track 1 between the Norden complex and Shed 47; either would increase capacity and effectively eliminate delays currently caused by having to run all east and west bound traffic between Norden and Shed 47 over a single track. (To fully eliminate bottleneck delays the now single track section between Switch 9 (MP 171.9) at Emigrant Gap and Shed 10 (MP 179.0) west of Cisco would likely also have to be restored to double track.) Improvements were completed on the Sierra grade in November 2009, including increasing 18,000 lineal feet of tunnel clearances in 15 restricted tunnels between Rocklin and Truckee and upgrading 30 miles of signals to CTC, although the original Donner Pass grade (Track 1) was not restored. Since then trains of full-height (20 ft 2 inch) double-stack container cars have run over Donner Pass; some tunnels on Track 2 between Bowman and Colfax were not enlarged, so stack trains in both directions must use the older, tunnel-free Track 1 between those points.\n\nThe Lincoln Highway, the first road across America, crosses Donner Pass; this was also a part of the Victory Highway. Interstate 80 was built through this area in the early 1960s. I-80 generally parallels the route of US 40 through the Sierra Nevada, but it crosses the Sierra crest at the Euer Saddle, about north of Donner Pass. Euer Saddle is referred to by CalTrans as \"Donner Summit\" at (), located on the south side of I-80 at the Castle Peak exit beyond Boreal Inn. Donner Summit is about higher than Donner Pass, but is wider and has a gentler approach that aided construction to Interstate Highway standards, which do not allow the sharp curves used by the Donner Pass Road. The grade is 3-6% for 30 miles. The 1920s highway has been preserved as a scenic alternative to I-80.\n\nWinter weather at Donner Pass can be brutal. Precipitation averages per year, much of which falls as snow. At an average of per year, Donner Pass is one of the snowiest places in the contiguous United States. Four times since 1880 total snowfall at Donner Summit has exceeded and topped in both 1938 and 1952. To take advantage of the heavy snows, the Boreal Ski Resort was built to the north. Ski resorts in the Lake Tahoe area report an average of of snowfall per season. Winds in the pass can also become extreme and wind gusts in excess of are common during winter storms. Winter temperatures in the area drop below several times each year; the all-time record low for California of was recorded at Boca (east of Truckee) in January 1937.\n\nThe winter of 1846–47 was especially severe, and this is generally cited as the single most important factor in the disaster of the Donner Party.\n\nSummer and winter offer a wide variety of recreation and lifestyle sports such as backpacking, alpine and cross-country skiing, rock and ice climbing. The original tunnel built by Central Pacific Railroad is home to a large amount of tagging culture. The region was made world-famous during the early 1990s with snowboarding films by Fall Line Films (FLF) and Standard Films, for its easy access to frontcountry and backcountry terrain. However, its fame and quick access from Old Highway 40 or nearby Sugar Bowl Ski Resort has led to a large number of avalanche fatalities, including professional snowboarder Jamil Khan.\n\nAlbert Bierstadt's painting \"View of Donner Lake\" (1871–72).\n\nThe Donner Pass is featured in the History Channel special episode, \"\": \"Westward\".\nIt is featured in the National Geographic Channel series \"Hell on the Highway\", series focuses on the towing and recovery companies working the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "20815843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20815843", "title": "ETD Pop", "text": "ETD Pop\n\nE.T.D. Pop stands for Electro Techno Disco Popsicle. ETD Pop is an annual electronic music festival held at the Cow Palace in Daly City, California, U.S., a suburb of San Francisco. It is hosted by the Berkeley-based event promoters Skills.\n\nIt was first held in 1997. In 2008, ETD Pop featured Deep Voices, Markus Schulz, Ferry Corsten, Kaskade, Donald Glaude, DJ Dan, and Tiesto, and in 2009, Paul van Dyk, Ferry Corsten, Deadmau5, and Sander van Doorn. The line-up is usually announced at the earlier Skills event ETD Love.\n\nArmin Van Buuren\nInfected Mushroom\nBenny Benassi\nFedde le Grand\nBoys Noize\nGareth Emery\nSteve Aoki \nLA Riots\nDeep Voices\n\nArtists who have performed at ETD Pop in previous years are listed below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "436940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436940", "title": "Economic interventionism", "text": "Economic interventionism\n\nEconomic interventionism (sometimes state interventionism) is an economic policy perspective\nfavoring government intervention in the market process to correct the market failures and promote the general welfare of the people. An economic intervention is an action taken by a government or international institution in a market economy in an effort to impact the economy beyond the basic regulation of fraud and enforcement of contracts and provision of public goods. Economic intervention can be aimed at a variety of political or economic objectives, such as promoting economic growth, increasing employment, raising wages, raising or reducing prices, promoting income equality, managing the money supply and interest rates, increasing profits, or addressing market failures.\n\nThe term \"intervention\" assumes on a philosophical level that the state and economy should be inherently separated from each other; therefore the terminology applies to capitalist market-based economies where government action interrupts the market forces at play through regulations, economic policies or subsidies (however state-owned enterprises that operate in the market do not constitute an intervention). The term \"intervention\" is typically used by advocates of laissez-faire and free markets.\n\nCapitalist market economies that feature high degrees of state intervention are often referred to as mixed economies.\n\nLibertarians, liberals and other advocates of free market or laissez-faire economics generally view government interventions as harmful, due to the law of unintended consequences, belief in government's inability to effectively manage economic concerns, and other considerations. Government officials tend to be naturally disposed to seek more power and authority, and the money that usually goes with those things, and this quest often takes the form of economic interventionism which they then seek to justify. Many modern liberals (in the United States) and contemporary social democrats (in Europe) are inclined to support interventionism, seeing state economic interventions as an important means of promoting greater income equality and social welfare. Many center-right groups, such as Gaullists and Christian Democrats, also support state economic interventionism to promote social order and stability. Nationalist conservatives also frequently support economic interventionism as a means of protecting the power and wealth of a country or its people, particularly via advantages granted to industries seen as nationally vital. Government interventions should be undertaken when potential benefits outweigh the (external) costs.\n\nOn the other hand, Marxists often feel that government welfare programs might interfere with the goal of overthrowing capitalism and replacing it with socialism, because a welfare state makes capitalism more tolerable to the average worker. Socialists often criticize interventionism (as supported by social democrats and social liberals) as being untenable and liable to cause more economic distortion in the long-run. From this perspective, any attempt to \"patch up\" capitalism's contradictions would lead to distortions in the economy elsewhere, so that the only real and lasting solution is to entirely replace capitalism with a socialist economy.\n\nThe effects of government economic interventionism are widely disputed.\n\nRegulatory authorities do not consistently close markets, yet as seen in economic liberalization efforts by states and various institutions (International Monetary Fund and World Bank) in Latin America, \"...financial liberalization and privatization coincided with democratization\". One study suggests that after the lost decade an increasing \"diffusion of regulatory authorities\" emerged, these actors engaged in restructuring the economies within Latin America. Latin America through the 1980s had undergone a debt crisis and \"hyperinflation\" (during 1989 and 1990). These international stakeholders restricted the state's economic leverage, and bound it in contract to co-operate. Multiple projects and years of failed attempts, for the Argentine state to comply, the renewal and intervention seemed stalled. Two key intervention factors that instigated economic progress in Argentina, were substantially increasing privatization and the establishment of a currency board.\nAs one can see this exemplifies global institutions including the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank instigate and propagate openness to increase foreign investments and economic development within places including Latin America.\n\nIn Western countries, government officials theoretically weigh the cost benefit for an intervention for the population or they succumb beneath coercion by a third private party and must take action. Also intervention for economic development is at the discretion and self-interest of the stake holders, the multifarious interpretations of \"progress\" and development theory could mean. To illustrate this during the 2008 debt crisis; the government and international institutions did not prop Lehman Brothers up therefore allowing them to file bankruptcy. Days later when AIG waned towards collapsing, the state spent public money to keep it from falling. These corporations have interconnected interests with the state. Therefore, their incentive is to influence the government to designate regulatory policies that will not inhibit their accumulation of assets.\n\nIn Japan, Abenomics is a form of intervention with respect to Prime Minister Shinzō Abe's desire to restore the country's former glory in the midst of a globalized economy.\n\nPresident Richard Nixon signed amendments to the Clean Air Act in 1970, that expanded it to mandate state and federal regulation of both automobiles and industry. It was later further amended in 1977 and 1990.\n\nthe main reasons for policy intervention are to correct market failure,to ensure resources are allocated efficiently,etc.\n\nUnited States pollution control statutes tend to be numerous and diverse, and many of the environmental statutes passed by Congress are aimed at pollution prevention, they often need to be expanded and updated before their impact is fully realized. Pollution-control laws are generally too broad to be managed by existing legal bodies, so Congress must find or create an agency for each that will be able to implement the mandated mission effectively.\n\nDuring World War I, U.S government intervention mandated that the manufacturing of cars be replaced with machinery to successfully fight the war. Today government intervention could be used to break the U.S dependence on oil by mandating U.S automakers to produce electric cars such as the Chevrolet Volt. Recently, Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm (D) said, “We need help from Congress,” namely, renewing the clean energy manufacturing tax credit and the tax incentives that make plug-ins cheaper to buy for consumers. It is possible that government mandated carbon taxes could be used to improve technology and make cars like the Volt more affordable to consumers. Unfortunately, current bills suggest carbon prices would only add a few cents to the price of gasoline, which has negligible effects, compared to what's needed to change fuel consumption.\nWashington is beginning to invest in car manufacturing industry by partially provinding $6 billion in battery-related public and private investments since 2008, and the White House has taken credit for putting a down payment on the U.S. battery industry that may reduce battery prices in the coming years.\nCurrently, opponents believe that the carbon dioxide emissions tax, that the U.S. government introduced, on new cars that is unfair on consumers and looks like a revenue-raising fiscal intervention instead of limiting harm caused to the environment. A national fuel tax means everyone, no matter what vehicle they drive, will pay the tax. The amount of tax each individual or company pays will be proportional to the emissions they generate. The more they drive, the more that they would need to pay. This tax is supported by the motor manufacturers, however stipulations confirmed by the National Treasury, state that minibuses and midibuses will receive a special exclusion from the emissions tax on cars and light commercial vehicles, which comes into effect from September 1, 2010. This exclusion is because these taxi vehicles are used for public transport, which opponents of the tax disagree with.\n\nDuring George W. Bush’s 2000 campaign, he promised to commit $2 billion over 10 years to advance clean coal technology through research and development initiatives. According to Bush supporters, he fulfilled that promise in his fiscal year 2008 budget request, allocating $426 million for the Clean Coal Technology Program. During his administration, Congress passed the Energy Policy Act of 2005, funding research into carbon-capture technology to remove and bury the carbon in coal after it is burned. The coal industry received $9 billion in subsidies under the act, as part of an initiative supposedly to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil and reduce carbon emissions. This included $6.2 billion for new power plants, $1.1 billion in tax breaks to install pollution-control technology and another $1.1 billion to make coal a cost efficient fuel. The act also allowed redefinitions of coal processing, such as spraying on diesel or starch, to qualify them as “non-traditional,” allowing coal producers to avoid paying $1.3 billion in taxes per year.\n\nThe Waxman-Markey bill, also called the American Clean Energy and Security Act, passed by the House Energy and Commerce Committee in 2010, targets dramatic CO2 reductions after 2020, when the price of the permits would rise to further limit consumers’ demand for CO2-intensive goods and services. The legislation is targeting 83 percent reduction in CO2 emissions from 2005 levels in the year 2050. A study by the EPA estimates that the price of the permit would rise from about $20 a ton in 2020 to more than $75 a ton in 2050.\n\nThe US Office of Management and Budget (OMB) shows that federal subsidies for coal in the United States were planned to be reduced significantly between 2011 and 2020, provided the budget passed through Congress and reduces four coal tax preferences: Expensing of Exploration and Development Costs, Percent Depletion for Hard Mineral Fossil Fuels, Royalty Taxation, and Domestic Manufacturing Deduction for Hard Mineral Fossil Fuels. The fiscal 2011 budget proposed by the Obama administration would cut approximately $2.3 billion in coal subsidies during the next decade.\n\n"}
{"id": "38983523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38983523", "title": "Enterprise (slave ship)", "text": "Enterprise (slave ship)\n\nThe Enterprise was a United States merchant vessel active in the coastwise slave trade in the early 19th century along the Atlantic Coast. Bad weather forced it into Hamilton, Bermuda waters on February 11, 1835 while it carried 78 slaves in addition to other cargo. It became the centre of a minor international incident when the British authorities freed nearly all the slaves. Britain had abolished slavery in its Caribbean colonies effective 1834. At that time it advised \"foreign nations that any slavers found in Bermuda [and the Bahamas] waters would be subject to arrest and seizure. Their cargoes were liable to forfeiture\" without compensation.\n\nBermuda customs officers called a gunboat and Royal Navy forces to detain the \"Enterprise\" ship so that the slaves could be freed. Richard Tucker of the local Friendly Society served the captain with a writ of \"habeas corpus,\" ordering him to deliver the slaves to the Bermuda Supreme Court so they could speak as to their choice of gaining freedom in the colony or returning with the ship to slavery in the United States. The court met from 9 p.m. to midnight on February 18, and the Chief Justice interviewed each slave. Seventy-two of the seventy-eight slaves from the \"Enterprise\" chose to stay in Bermuda and gain freedom.\n\nThe freeing of the slaves from \"Enterprise\" was one of several similar incidents from 1830 to 1842: officials in Bermuda and the Bahamas freed a total of nearly 450 slaves from United States ships in the domestic trade, after the ships had been wrecked in their waters or entered their ports for other reasons. United States owners kept pressing the government for claims for their losses. In the 1853 Treaty of Claims, the US and Britain agreed to settle a variety of claims dating to 1814, including those for slaves freed after 1834. This was ultimately settled by arbitration in 1855, establishing a payment of $270,700 against the US Government, due British subjects, and $329,000 against the British Government, due to American citizens. Ultimately some insurance companies were paid for the loss of property of the slaves.\n\nBoth the United States and Great Britain had banned the international slave trade since 1807, and both operated sailing patrols off Africa (Britain's West Africa Squadron) and in the Caribbean to intercept illegal vessels and suppress the trade. The United States in its legislation preserved the right to operate ships for its domestic coastwise slave trade among various markets along the East and Gulf coasts, which became increasingly important as the Deep South rapidly developed cotton cultivation. With labor demand at a height, in the antebellum years, nearly a million enslaved African Americans were moved to the Deep South in a forced migration, two-thirds through the domestic slave trade. New Orleans had the largest slave market and its port was important for the slave trade and related businesses.\n\nIn 1818, the Home Office in London had ruled that \"any slave brought to the Bahamas from outside the British West Indies would be manumitted.\" This interpretation led to British colonial officials' freeing a total of nearly 450 slaves owned by U.S. nationals from 1830 to 1842, in incidents in which American merchant ships were wrecked in the Bahamas or put into colonial ports for other reasons. The American slave ship \"Comet\" was wrecked in 1830 off Abaco Island, as was the \"Encomium\" in February 1834. Customs officials seized the cargoes of slaves when brought into Nassau by wreckers, and colonial officials freed them: 164 slaves from the \"Comet\" and 45 from the \"Encomium\". Britain paid an indemnity to the US in those two cases, but only in 1855 under the Treaty of Claims of 1853. Additional slaves were liberated from American ships during the intervening years.\n\nGreat Britain abolished slavery effective in August 1834 in the British Isles, most of its colonies and their waters. Since the emancipation, Britain had advised \"foreign nations that any slavers found in Bermuda [and the Bahamas] waters would be subject to arrest and seizure. Their cargoes were liable to forfeiture\" without compensation.\n\nIn February 1835, seven days out on a voyage between Alexandria, Virginia and Charleston, South Carolina, the American brig \"Enterprise\" was driven off-course by a hurricane and forced to put in for provisions at Hamilton, Bermuda, a British colony. When the customs officers arrived on the large, 127-ton ship on February 11, they discovered that it held a total of 78 slaves, in what they reported were appalling conditions. The captives were not listed on the ship's manifest for cargo. Alexandria and Washington, DC comprised a major market for slaves from the Chesapeake Bay area, of Virginia, Maryland and Delaware, being sold and shipped to the Deep South. Most of the slaves on the \"Enterprise\" were owned by Joseph Neal, and they were highly valuable, as they were young, American-born and spoke English. They were listed as mostly between the ages of 7 and 15, and 19 to 25. There were a total of 41 females and 37 males.\n\nThe customs officials told Captain Smith that the slaves were illegal in Bermuda and subject to forfeiture; they ordered him to bring them ashore. The British summoned a gunboat and Royal Navy forces to put the crew under armed guard. When Smith threatened to leave in defiance, local forces detained the Americans.\n\nRichard Tucker intervened; he was the Bermudian founder in 1832 of the local black Young Men's Friendly Lodge (a mutual aid group). He obtained a writ of \"habeas corpus\" from the court compelling the captain, Elliot Smith, to bring the slaves \"before the Chief Justice and answer for themselves whether they would proceed with the vessel to her destined port and continue slaves, or remain at Bermuda and be free.\"\n\nSome 78 slaves, many of them women with children, were removed from the ship to prepare for their court hearing. By the time they landed at Barr's Bay Park near Hamilton, an \"immense crowd\" had gathered to greet them. Many of the crowd had been freed just the year before and were excited to think the American slaves might gain freedom.\n\nThe Bermuda Supreme Court convened at 9 p.m. on February 18 to interview the slaves. The hearing lasted until midnight in a packed room; a large crowd of locals attended the session. Bermuda's Chief Justice Thomas Butterfield interviewed the slaves individually, and asked whether they wished to return to the US and slavery, or remain in Bermuda as free persons. During this session, the Court heard that many of the people had been free blacks in Maryland that raiders had kidnapped and sold into slavery.\n\nA woman named Ridgely, with her five children, chose to return to the United States. The remaining 72 people chose to stay in Bermuda. That night, on February 18, 1835, the Supreme Court freed them. A journalist present wrote, \"It would be difficult to describe the sense of joy and wonderment that prevailed.\"\n\nThe Attorney General initiated a subscription on behalf of the freedmen, and $70 was quickly raised from attendees to help them. Mayor William Cox of Hamilton offered them the use of a vacant storehouse as a place to sleep. Well-wishers and the Friendly Society aided the new freedmen in finding housing and jobs, and quickly integrating into local society.\n\nThe \"Enterprise\" case contributed to the tensions arising between Great Britain and the United States over the question of slavery during the period after it had been abolished in Britain and her colonies. The United States continued with it as a domestic trade and profitable institution in the South. This was one of several incidents in which British officials in Bermuda or the West Indies freed slaves owned by Americans. While the US and Britain worked to suppress the international slave trade from Africa, the US wanted to protect its domestic slavers if weather or accidents drove them into British colonial ports. In the case of the \"Enterprise\" and other incidents, local British citizens took action on behalf of American slaves.\n\nIn 1840, \"Hermosa\", a US schooner in the coastwise slave trade, carrying 38 slaves from Richmond to New Orleans for sale, went aground on one of the Abacos islands in the Bahamas. After salvors took the ship to port, the captain refused to let the slaves off. With the US consul, he tried to arrange for another ship to take his slave cargo for delivery. British magistrates backed with armed force boarded \"Hermosa\", taking the slaves off and freeing them when they reached shore. The Americans protested.\n\nThe Creole Case gained notoriety as it resulted from a November 1841 slave revolt on an American brig. After 19 slaves took control of the crew of the \"Creole,\" they ordered the ship sailed to Nassau, Bahamas; one of the leaders had heard of the \"Hermosa\" case the year before and knew the British had abolished slavery. Ultimately, 128 of 135 slaves from the \"Creole\" were freed by the British colonists. It was the most successful slave revolt in US history. The US was concerned not only about compensation for slaveholders' losses. It feared that the success of the \"Creole\" slaves would encourage others to attempt such ship revolts to reach freedom in the British West Indies, and threaten the coastwise slave trade and slavery in the South.\n\nThe US-British negotiations on the Webster-Ashburton Treaty (1842) were underway at the time and partially resolved the international tensions. The Martin Van Buren administration had formally demanded the return of the American slaves from the \"Creole\", which Britain refused. Southern slaveholders continued to press Congress for compensation for their loss of \"property.\"\n\nIn correspondence with US Secretary of State Daniel Webster, the British diplomat Lord Ashburton, while repeating that British law forbidding slavery was unalterable, assured Webster that, in the interest of 'good neighbourhood,' the Crown would inform the governors of the colonies on the southern borders of the United States against \"officious interference\" when chance drove American vessels into British jurisdiction.\n\nThe articles of a February 1853 Treaty of Claims between Great Britain and the United States included the claims of slave-owners who had suffered financially through the British liberation of slaves in the \"Enterprise\", \"Hermosa,\" and \"Creole\" incidents. A claims commission met in London from September 15, 1853 to January 15, 1855 to settle the amount of total awards covered under this treaty, which extended to a variety of claims dating from December 1814. In February 1855, Congress passed a bill accepting the commission's settlement and appropriating funds for the US payment required.\n\nFor several years following signing of the Webster-Ashburton Treaty, the United States had no complaints against Britain related to emancipating slaves from American ships at Caribbean ports. But, even if officials could be instructed to turn a blind eye, the residents of British colonies (many of whom had formerly been enslaved) sometimes took direct action to free American slaves.\n\nOn 20 July 1855, the \"New York Times\" reported that an American slave had been removed in late June by Jamaicans from the brig \"Young America\" at Savanna-la-Mar, Jamaica and \"set at large\".According to the US Consul in Jamaica, the man in question had boarded the \"Young America\" with papers showing he was a free man named Nettles. Later he said his name was really Anderson, and he was a slave escaping from a Mr. Robinson. The Consul noted that, if this were true, Anderson would have become free \"on touching British soil.\" The Consul had written to the Collector of the Port of Norfolk, Virginia, advising shipmasters to avoid bringing black crew to Jamaica, because of their high rate of desertion at the island. He noted that it was difficult to recover deserters because of strong local opposition to slavery, as well as the US and Great Britain lacking any treaty applying to their recovery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1271930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271930", "title": "Euratom Treaty", "text": "Euratom Treaty\n\nThe Euratom Treaty, officially the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, established the European Atomic Energy Community. It was signed on 25 March 1957, at the same time as the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community (EEC Treaty).\n\nThe Euratom treaty is less well-known due to the lower profile of the organisation it founded. While the EEC has evolved into what is now the European Union, Euratom has remained much the same as it was in 1957, albeit governed by the institutions of the European Union. It was established with its own independent institutions, but the 1967 Merger Treaty merged the institutions of Euratom and the European Coal and Steel Community with those of the EEC.\n\nThe Euratom treaty has seen very little amendment, due to the later sensitivity surrounding nuclear power amongst European public opinion. Owing to this, some argue that it has become too out-dated, particularly in the areas of democratic oversight. It was not included as part of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, which sought to combine all previous treaties, over fears that including nuclear power in the treaty would turn more people against it. Nevertheless, it forms part of the active treaties of the European Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2066230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2066230", "title": "Evangelos Venizelos", "text": "Evangelos Venizelos\n\nEvangelos Venizelos (, ; born 1 January 1957) is a Greek politician who was Deputy Prime Minister of Greece and Minister for Foreign Affairs from 25 June 2013 to 27 January 2015. Previously, he was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance of Greece from 17 June 2011 to 21 March 2012. He is a member of the Hellenic Parliament for the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) for the first electoral district of Thessaloniki.\n\nHe is a Professor of Constitutional Law at the Law School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.\n\nOn 18 March 2012, Venizelos was elected unopposed to replace George Papandreou as PASOK president and led the party in the May 2012 general election as well as the June 2012 general election.\n\nEvangelos Venizelos was born in Thessaloniki on 1 January 1957. He is unrelated to his famous namesake, Eleftherios Venizelos.. He is married to Lila A. Bakatselou and has a daughter. He was an undergraduate at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki from 1974 through 1978 and completed postgraduate studies at Panthéon-Assas University in France. In 1980, he received his Ph.D. in Law from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.\n\nHe speaks French and English.\nVenizelos is the author of a number of books, monographs and papers, including most recently \"Agenda 16\" ( in 2007, a collection of writings about the future of the university system in Greece, including some articles previously published on the web. Other writings have dealt with current political issues and the media, foreign policy, and developmental policy. His recent works focus more on political theory and cultural issues. He strongly opposes the clash of civilizations theory, and has written extensively about the Greek \"civilization of civilizations\" (Venizelos, 2001).\n\nAs a student, Venizelos served on the Central Council of the Student Union of the University of Thessaloniki (FEAPT) in 1977, and the National Student Union of Greece (EFEE) in 1975.\n\nVenizelos was elected as a PASOK MP in the Thessaloniki A constituency in the general elections of 1993, 1996, 2000, 2004, 2007 and 2009. He has been a member of the parliamentary committee for the Revision of the Constitution, on which he was spokesman for the majority party in the parliaments elected in 1993, 1996, 2000, 2004 and 2007. He was also a member of the Standing Committees on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and on European Affairs.\n\nIn parliament, Venizelos currently serves on the Special Permanent Committee on Institutions and Transparency and on the Special Permanent Committee on monitoring the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nIn addition to his role in parliament, Venizelos has been serving as member of the Greek delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe since 2016. A member of the Socialists, Democrats and Greens Group, he serves on the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights; its Sub-Committee on the implementation of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights; the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Immunities and Institutional Affairs; and Committee on the Election of Judges to the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nHe has been a member of the PASOK Central Committee since 1990. In the past he was a member of the PASOK Executive Bureau.\n\nVenizelos has held the following government posts:\n\nAfter the legislative elections of 2007, in which PASOK was soundly defeated, Venizelos announced his candidacy for the leadership of the party. In the leadership election, held on 11 November 2007, Venizelos was defeated by incumbent party leader George Papandreou, receiving 38.18% of the vote against 55.91% for Papandreou.\n\nWhen named by Papandreou to the finance and deputy PM positions in June 2011, Venizelos said \"'I am leaving defense today to go to the real battle' to reduce Europe’s biggest debt load – almost 1 1/2 times the size of its economy.\" David Marsh of London and Oxford Capital Markets in \"MarketWatch\" wrote that both \"German parliamentarians who voted solidly earlier this month to involve private-sector creditors in the next bail-out package\", which Angela Merkel has now dropped as a precondition, and \"Greece’s politicians and people, who must bow to further austerity as the price for fresh external support\", were central as \"the stage now shifts to further players in the theatre of Greek affairs.\" And \"[n]obody knows whether the burly new Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos will put in a starring role or turn out merely as a transitory figure.\"\n\nVenizelos was active in the Macedonia naming dispute, when elements in Greece opposed the use of the name \"Macedonia\" by the newly independent neighbouring Republic of Macedonia. Columnist Mark Dragoumis of Athens News opined that, \"[i]n February 1994, as minister of information, [Venizelos] was instrumental in convincing the ailing Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou to impose that idiotic 'embargo' on the country later named FYROM.\" Dragoumis maintained that Venizelos' motivation was to gain \"nationalist votes in his Thessaloniki constituency.\"\n\nDragoumis also criticised Venizelos for helping pass a law – \"in order to boost [his] popularity among Greek republicans\" – to impose a requirement on King Constantine II, former king of the Hellenes, and his family if they wanted to be granted Greek nationality. The requirement was to submit a declaration that they \"unreservedly respected the 1975 Constitution and accepted and recognised the Hellenic Republic.\" The columnist termed it a \"silly precondition – reminiscent of the 'declarations of repentance' that Greek leftists were obliged to sign under pressure during the civil war and after.\" Ultimately, the law proved irrelevant once Greece signed the Schengen Agreement allowing the ex-king to travel to Greece via Italy without having to pass through Greek immigration.\n\n"}
{"id": "39117793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39117793", "title": "Federal Disaster Assistance Nonprofit Fairness Act of 2013", "text": "Federal Disaster Assistance Nonprofit Fairness Act of 2013\n\nThe Federal Disaster Assistance Nonprofit Fairness Act of 2013 () is a bill that passed in the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress. The bill would make religious organizations and religious non-profits eligible to receive federal funding for repairs and rebuilding of their facilities after a major disaster. The bill amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act.\n\nThe bill passed the House by a large margin, but was criticized by opponents for using taxpayer money to help tax-exempt organizations and for violating the principle of separation of church and state.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Bill would amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to include community centers, including tax-exempt houses of worship, as \"private nonprofit facilities\" for purposes of disaster relief and emergency assistance eligibility under such Act.\n\nThe amendment makes a church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or other house of worship, and a private nonprofit facility operated by a religious organization, eligible for federal contributions for the repair, restoration, and replacement of facilities damaged or destroyed by a major disaster, without regard to the religious character of the facility or the primary religious use of the facility.\n\nFinally, the bill makes the Act applicable to the provision of assistance in response to a major disaster or emergency declared on or after October 28, 2012.\n\nThe Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives on February 8, 2013 by Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ). The bill was immediately referred to the United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. It was then referred to the United States House Transportation Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management on February 11, 2013. On February 13, the Bill was considered on the House floor under a suspension of the rules; it passed later that day 354-72 (Roll Call Vote 39). By the time it had passed, the Bill had received 9 cosponsors in the House. Of the 72 members who voted against the bill, 66 were Democrats and 6 were Republicans.\n\nThe Bill was received in the Senate on February 14, 2013. It was referred to the United States Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs on March 13, 2013.\n\nSupporters of the Bill argued that the bill was necessary to clarify existing law by correcting an oversight. The House Republican Majority's official website stated their view that \"unlike previous disasters, Congress did not clarify that religious nonprofits, including houses of worship, are eligible to receive disaster funding when providing aid for victims and communities impacted by Hurricane Sandy. As a result, the (Obama) Administration is interpreting current law to preclude houses of worship from being eligible for funding on the same terms as similarly impacted nonprofits.\" Other supporters of federal funding for houses of worship damaged in disasters have argued that such places a key parts of communities and are not exempted from other aspects of government disaster management, like evacuation orders or emergency fortification attempts, and therefore should not be prevented from seeking disaster relief.\n\nOpponents of the Bill argued that the Obama Administration is right to deny funds to religious institutions; this argument was often made on First Amendment grounds. The non-profit Center for Inquiry wrote on its website that they opposed the Bill because they believed it violated the First Amendment's prohibition against government establishing any religion. The Center for Inquiry argued that \"true religious freedom protects the conscience of the taxpayer by ensuring that his or her money is not used to support or advance religion with which he or she may disagree.\" One blogger referred to the act as the \"Taxpayer Money to Tax-Exempt Churches Act\". The group Americans United for Separation of Church and State also argued against the Bill, writing on their website that \"Church-state separation protects the right of taxpayers to support only the religious institutions of their choice, and it ensures the independence and integrity of faith communities. Houses of worship exist primarily to teach the tenets of their religion. They should be supported by donations, not government subsidies.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2843775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2843775", "title": "First Bulgarian Empire", "text": "First Bulgarian Empire\n\nThe First Bulgarian Empire (Old Bulgarian: ц︢рьство бл︢гарское, \"ts'rstvo bl'garskoe\") was a medieval Bulgarian state that existed in southeastern Europe between the 7th and 11th centuries AD. It was founded in 681 when Bulgar tribes led by Asparuh moved to the north-eastern Balkans. There they secured Byzantine recognition of their right to settle south of the Danube by defeatingpossibly with the help of local South Slavic tribesthe Byzantine army led by Constantine IV. At the height of its power, Bulgaria spread from the Danube Bend to the Black Sea and from the Dnieper River to the Adriatic Sea.\n\nAs the state solidified its position in the Balkans, it entered into a centuries-long interaction, sometimes friendly and sometimes hostile, with the Byzantine Empire. Bulgaria emerged as Byzantium's chief antagonist to its north, resulting in several wars. The two powers also enjoyed periods of peace and alliance, most notably during the Second Arab siege of Constantinople, where the Bulgarian army broke the siege and destroyed the Arab army, thus preventing an Arab invasion of Southeastern Europe. Byzantium had a strong cultural influence on Bulgaria, which also led to the eventual adoption of Christianity in 864. After the disintegration of the Avar Khaganate, the country expanded its territory northwest to the Pannonian Plain. Later the Bulgarians confronted the advance of the Pechenegs and Cumans, and achieved a decisive victory over the Magyars, forcing them to establish themselves permanently in Pannonia.\n\nDuring the late 9th and early 10th centuries, Simeon I achieved a string of victories over the Byzantines. Thereafter, he was recognized with the title of Emperor, and proceeded to expand the state to its greatest extent. After the annihilation of the Byzantine army in the battle of Anchialus in 917, the Bulgarians laid siege to Constantinople in 923 and 924. The Byzantines, however, eventually recovered, and in 1014, under Basil II, inflicted a crushing defeat on the Bulgarians at the Battle of Kleidion. By 1018, the last Bulgarian strongholds had surrendered to the Byzantine Empire, and the First Bulgarian Empire had ceased to exist. It was succeeded by the Second Bulgarian Empire in 1185.\n\nAfter the adoption of Christianity, Bulgaria became the cultural center of Slavic Europe. Its leading cultural position was further consolidated with the invention of the Glagolitic and Early Cyrillic alphabets shortly after in the capital Preslav, and literature produced in Old Bulgarian soon began spreading north. Old Bulgarian became the lingua franca of much of Eastern Europe and it came to be known as Old Church Slavonic. In 927, the fully independent Bulgarian Patriarchate was officially recognized.\n\nThe Bulgars and other non-Slavic tribes in the empire gradually adopted an essentially foreign Slavic language. Since the late 9th century, the names \"Bulgarians\" and \"Bulgarian\" gained prevalence and became permanent designations for the local population, both in literature and in common parlance. The development of Old Church Slavonic literacy had the effect of preventing the assimilation of the South Slavs into neighbouring cultures, while stimulating the formation of a distinct Bulgarian identity.\n\nThe First Bulgarian Empire became known simply as \"Bulgaria\" since its recognition by the Byzantine Empire in 681. Some historians use the terms \"Danube Bulgaria\", \"First Bulgarian State\", or \"First Bulgarian Tsardom (Empire)\". Between 681 and 864 the country was also known as the \"Bulgarian Khanate\", \"Danube Bulgarian Khanate\", or \"Danube Bulgar Khanate\" in order to differentiate it from Volga Bulgaria, which emerged from another Bulgar group. During its early existence, the country was also called the \"Bulgar state\" or \"Bulgar Khaghanate\". Between 864 and 917/927, the country was known as the \"Principality of Bulgaria\" or \"Knyazhestvo Bulgaria\". In English language sources, the country is often known as the \"Bulgarian Empire\".\n\nParts of the eastern Balkan Peninsula was in antiquity inhabited by the Thracians who were a group of Proto-Indo-European tribes. The whole region as far north as the Danube River was gradually incorporated into the Roman Empire by the 1st century AD. The decline of the Roman Empire after the 3rd century AD and the continuous invasions of Goths and Huns left much of the region devastated, depopulated and in economic decline by the 5th century. The surviving eastern half of the Roman Empire, called by later historians the Byzantine Empire, could not exercise effective control in these territories other than in the coastal areas and certain cities in the interior. Nonetheless, it never relinquished the claim to the whole region up to the Danube. A series of administrative, legislative, military and economic reforms somewhat improved the situation but despite these reforms disorder continued in much of the Balkans. The reign of Emperor Justinian I (r.527–565) saw temporary recovery of control and reconstruction of a number of fortresses but after his death the empire was unable to face the threat of the Slavs due to the significant reduction of revenue and manpower.\n\nThe Slavs, of Indo-European origin, were first mentioned in written sources to inhabit the territories to the north of the Danube in the 5th century AD but most historians agree that they had arrived earlier. The group of Slavs that came to be known as the South Slavs was divided into Antes and Sclaveni who spoke the same language. The Slavic incursions in the Balkans increased during the second half of Justinian I's reign and while these were initially pillaging raids, large-scale settlement began in the 570s and 580s. This migration is associated with the arrival of the Avars who settled in the plains of Pannonia between the rivers Danube and Tisza in the 560s subjugating various Bulgar and Slavic tribes in the process.\n\nConsumed in bitter wars with the Persian Sasanian Empire in the east, the Byzantines had little resources to confront the Slavs. The Slavs came in large numbers and the lack of political organisation made it very difficult to stop them because there was no political leader to defeat in battle and thereby force their retreat. As the wars with Persia persisted, the 610s and 620s saw a new and even larger migration wave with the Slavs penetrating further south into the Balkans, reaching Thessaly, Thrace and Peloponnese and raiding some islands in the Aegean Sea. The Byzantines held out Salonica and a number of coastal towns but beyond these areas the imperial authority in the Balkans disappeared.\n\nThe Bulgars were semi-nomadic warrior tribes originating from Central Asia whose exact ethnic origin is controversial. They spoke a form of Turkic language and during their migration westwards they absorbed other ethnic groups and cultural influences, including Hunnic, Iranian and Indo-European people. The Bulgars included the tribes of Onogurs, Utigurs and Kutrigurs, among others.\n\nThe first clear mention of the Bulgars in written sources dates from 480, when they served as the allies of the Byzantine Emperor Zeno (r. 474–491) against the Ostrogoths although an obscure reference to \"Ziezi ex quo Vulgares\", with Ziezi being an offspring of Biblical Shem, son of Noah, is in the \"Chronography of 354\". In the 490s the Kutrigurs had moved west of the Black Sea while the Utigurs inhabited the steppes to the east of them. In the first half of the 6th century the Bulgars occasionally raided the Byzantine Empire but in the second half of the century the Kutrigurs were subjugated by the Avar Khaganate and the Utigurs came under the rule of the Western Turkic Khaganate.\n\nAs the power of the Western Turks faded in the 600s the Avars reasserted their domination over the Bulgars. Between 630 and 635 Khan Kubrat of the Dulo clan managed to unite the main Bulgar tribes and to declare independence from the Avars, creating a powerful confederation called Old Great Bulgaria, also known as \" Patria Onoguria\", between the Black Sea, the Sea of Azov and the Caucasus. Kubrat, who was baptised in Constantinople in 619, concluded an alliance with the Byzantine Emperor Heraclius (r. 610–641) and the two countries remained in good relations until Kubrat's death between 650 and 663. Kubrat fought with the Khazars in the east but after his demise Old Great Bulgaria disintegrated under strong Khazar pressure in 668 and his five sons parted with their followers. The eldest Batbayan remained in his homeland as Kubrat's successor and eventually became a Khazar vassal. The second brother Kotrag migrated to the middle Volga region and founded Volga Bulgaria. The third brother Asparuh led his people west to the lower Danube. The fourth one, Kuber, initially settled in Pannonia under Avar suzerainty but revolted and moved to the region of Macedonia, while the fifth brother Alcek settled in central Italy.\n\nThe Bulgars of Asparuh moved westwards to what is now Bessarabia, subdued the territories to the north of the Danube in modern Wallachia, and established themselves in the Danube Delta. In the 670s they crossed the Danube into Scythia Minor, nominally a Byzantine province, whose steppe grasslands and pastures were important for the large herd stocks of the Bulgars in addition to the grazing grounds to the west of the Dniester River already under their control. In 680 the Byzantine Emperor Constantine IV (r.668–685), having recently defeated the Arabs, led an expedition at the head of a huge army and fleet to drive off the Bulgars but suffered a disastrous defeat at the hands of Asparuh at Onglos, a swampy region in or around the Danube Delta where the Bulgars had set a fortified camp. The Bulgars advanced south, crossed the Balkan Mountains and invaded Thrace. In 681, the Byzantines were compelled to sign a humiliating peace treaty, forcing them to acknowledge Bulgaria as an independent state, to cede the territories to the north of the Balkan Mountains and to pay an annual tribute. In his universal chronicle the Western European author Sigebert of Gembloux remarked that the Bulgarian state was established in 680. This was the first state that the empire recognised in the Balkans and the first time it legally surrendered claims to part of its Balkan dominions. The Byzantine chronicler Theophanes the Confessor wrote of the treaty:\n\nThe relations between the Bulgars and the local Slavs is a matter of debate depending on the interpretation of the Byzantine sources. Vasil Zlatarski asserts that they concluded a treaty but most historians agree that they were subjugated. The Bulgars were superior organisationally and militarily and came to dominate politically the new state but there was cooperation between them and the Slavs for the protection of the country. The Slavs were allowed to retain their chiefs, to abide to their customs and in return they were to pay tribute in kind and to provide foot soldiers for the army. The Seven Slavic tribes were relocated to the west to protect the frontier with the Avar Khaganate, while the Severi were resettled in the eastern Balkan Mountains to guard the mountain passes to the Byzantine Empire. The number of Asparuh's Bulgars is difficult to estimate. Vasil Zlatarski and John Van Antwerp Fine Jr. suggest that they were not particularly numerous, numbering some 10,000, while Steven Runciman considers that the tribe must had been of considerable dimensions. The Bulgars settled mainly in the north-east, establishing the capital at Pliska, which was initially a colossal encampment of 23 km protected with earthen ramparts.\n\nTo the north-east the war with the Khazars persisted and in 700 Khan Asparuh perished in battle with them. Despite this setback the consolidation of the country continued under Asparuh's successor, Khan Tervel (r.700–721). In 705 he assisted the deposed Byzantine Emperor Justinian II to regain his throne in return of the area \"Zagore\" in Northern Thrace, which was the first expansion of Bulgaria to the south of the Balkan mountains. In addition Tervel obtained the almost imperial title \"Caesar\" and sitting enthroned besides the Emperor received the obeisance of the citizenry of Constantinople and numerous gifts. However, three years later Justinian tried to regain the ceded territory by force, but his army was defeated at Anchialus. Skirmishes continued until 716 when Khan Tervel signed an important agreement with Byzantium that defined the borders and the Byzantine tribute, regulated trade relations and provided for prisoners and fugitives exchange. When the Arabs laid siege to Constantinople in 717–718 Tervel dispatched his army to help the besieged city. In the decisive battle before the Walls of Constantinople the Bulgarians slaughtered between 22,000 and 30,000 Arabs forcing them to abandon the undertaking. Most historians agree that Byzantine-Bulgarian victory was the most important one for stopping the Arab offences against Europe.\n\nWith the demise of Khan Sevar (r.738–753) the ruling Dulo clan died out and the Khanate fell into a long political crisis during which the young country was on the verge of destruction. In just fifteen years seven Khans reigned, and all of them were murdered. The only surviving sources of this period are Byzantine and present only the Byzantine point of view of the ensuing political turmoil in Bulgaria. They describe two factions struggling for powerone that sought peaceful relations with the Empire, which was dominant until 755, and one that favoured war. These sources present the relations with the Byzantine Empire as the main issue in this internal struggle and do not mention the other reasons, which could have been more important for the Bulgarian elite. It is likely that the relationship between the politically dominant Bulgars and the more numerous Slavs was the main issue behind the struggle but there is no evidence about the aims of the rival factions. Zlatarski speculates that the old Bulgar military aristocracy was leaning towards war while other Bulgars supported by the majority of the Slavs were inclined for peace with Byzantium.\n\nThe internal instability was used by the \"soldier Emperor\" Constantine V (r.745–775), who launched nine major campaigns aiming to eliminate Bulgaria. Having contained the Arab threat during the first part of his reign, ConstantineV was able to concentrate his forces on Bulgaria after 755. He defeated the Bulgarians at Marcellae in 756, Anchialus in 763 and Berzitia in 774, but lost the battle of the Rishki Pass in 759 in addition to hundreds of ships lost to storms in the Black Sea. The Byzantine military successes further deteriorated the crisis in Bulgaria but on the other hand rallied together many different fractions to resist the Byzantine advance in that period of political volatility and military setbacks, as shown at the council of 766 when the nobility and the \"armed people\" denounced Khan Sabin with the words \"Thanks to you, the Romans will enslave Bulgaria!\". In 774 Khan Telerig (r.768–777) tricked ConstantineV into revealing his spies at the Bulgarian court in Pliska and had them all executed. The next year ConstantineV died during a retaliatory campaign against Bulgaria. Despite being able to defeat the Bulgarians several times the Byzantines were able neither to conquer Bulgaria, nor to impose their suzerainty and a lasting peace, which is a testimony to the resilience, fighting skills and ideological coherence of the Bulgarian state. The devastation brought to the country by the nine campaigns of ConstantineV firmly rallied the Slavs behind the Bulgars and greatly increased the dislike of the Byzantines, turning Bulgaria into a hostile neighbour. The hostilities continued until 792 when Khan Kardam (r.777–803) achieved an important victory in the battle of Marcelae, forcing the Byzantines once again to pay tribute to the Khans. As a result of the victory, the crisis was finally overcome, and Bulgaria entered the new century stable, stronger, and consolidated.\n\nDuring the reign of Khan Krum (r.803–814) Bulgaria doubled in size and expanded southward and to the northwest, occupying the lands along the middle Danube and Transylvania. Between 804 and 806 the Bulgarian armies thoroughly eliminated the Avar Khaganate, which had suffered a crippling blow by the Franks in 796, and a border with the Frankish Empire was established along the middle Danube or Tisza. Prompted by the Byzantine moves to consolidate their hold on the Slavs in Macedonia and northern Greece and in response to a Byzantine raid against the country, the Bulgarians confronted the Byzantine Empire. In 808 they raided the valley of the Struma River, defeating a Byzantine army, and in 809 captured the important city Serdica (modern Sofia). In 811 the Byzantine Emperor Nicephorus I launched a massive offensive against Bulgaria, seized, plundered and burned down the capital Pliska but on the way back the Byzantine army was decisively defeated in the battle of the Varbitsa Pass. NicephorusI himself was slain along with most of his troops, and his skull was lined with silver and used as a drinking cup. Krum took the initiative and in 812 moved the war towards Thrace, capturing the key Black Sea port of Messembria and defeating the Byzantines once more at Versinikia in 813 before proposing a generous peace settlement. However, during the negotiations the Byzantines attempted to assassinate Krum. In response, the Bulgarians pillaged Eastern Thrace and seized the important city of Adrianople, resettling its 10,000 inhabitants in \"Bulgaria across the Danube\". Krum made enhanced preparation to capture Constantinople: 5,000 iron-plated wagons were built to carry the siege equipment; the Byzantines even pleaded for help from the Frankish Emperor Louis the Pious. Due to the sudden death of Krum on 14 April 814, however, the campaign was never launched. Khan Krum implemented legal reform and issued the first known written law code of Bulgaria that established equal rules for all peoples living within the country's boundaries, intending to reduce poverty and to strengthen the social ties in his vastly enlarged state.\n\nKrum's successor Khan Omurtag (r.814–831) concluded a 30-year peace treaty with the Byzantines, thus allowing both countries to restore their economies and finance after the bloody conflicts in the first decade of the century, establishing the border along the \"Erkesia\" trench between Debeltos on the Black Sea and the valley of the Maritsa River at Kalugerovo. To the west the Bulgarians were in control of Belgrade (whose modern name was first known as \"Alba Bulgarica\") by the 820s and the northwestern boundaries with the Frankish Empire were firmly settled along the middle Danube by 827. To the north-east Omurtag fought the Khazars along the Dnieper River, which was the easternmost limit of Bulgaria. Extensive building was undertaken in the capital Pliska, including the construction of a magnificent palace, pagan temples, ruler's residence, fortress, citadel, water-main, and bath, mainly from stone and brick. Omurtag started in 814 persecution of Christians, in particular against the Byzantine prisoners of war settled north of the Danube. Menologion of Basil II, glorifies Emperor Basil II as a warrior defending Orthodox Christendom against the attacks of the pagan Bulgars. The expansion to the south and south-west continued under Omurtag's successors under the guidance of the capable \"kavhan\" (First Minister) Isbul. During the short reign of Khan Malamir (r.831–836), the important city of Philippopolis (Plovdiv) was incorporated into the country. Under Khan Presian (r.836–852), the Bulgarians took most of Macedonia, and the borders of the country reached the Adriatic Sea near Valona and Aegean Sea. Byzantine historians do not mention any resistance against the Bulgarian expansion in Macedonia, leading to the conclusion that the expansion was largely peaceful. With this, Bulgaria had become the dominant power in the Balkans. The advances further west was blocked by the development of a new Slavic state under Byzantine patronage, the Principality of Serbia. Between 839 and 842 the Bulgarians waged war on the Serbs but did not make any progress. Historian Mark Whittow asserts that the claim for a Serb victory in that war in \"De Administrando Imperio\" was a wishful Byzantine thinking but notes that any Serb submission to the Bulgarians went no further than the payment of tribute.\n\nThe reign of Boris I (r.852–889) began with numerous setbacks. For ten years the country fought against the Byzantine Empire, Eastern Francia, Great Moravia, the Croats and the Serbs forming several unsuccessful alliances and changing sides. In August 863 there was a period of 40 days of earthquakes and there was a lean year, which caused famine throughout the country. To cap it all, there was an incursion of locusts. Yet, despite all military setbacks and natural disasters the skilful diplomacy of BorisI prevented any territorial losses and kept the realm intact. In this complex international situation Christianity had become attractive as a religion by the mid 9th-century because it provided better opportunities for forging reliable alliances and diplomatic ties. Taking this into account, as well as a variety of internal factors, BorisI converted to Christianity in 864, assuming the title \"Knyaz\" (Prince). Taking advantage of the struggle between the Papacy in Rome and the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, BorisI brilliantly manoeuvred to assert the independence of the newly established Bulgarian Church. To check the possibility of Byzantine interference in the internal matters of Bulgaria, he sponsored the disciples of the brothers Cyril and Methodius to create literature in Old Bulgarian language. BorisI dealt ruthlessly with the opposition to the Christianisation of Bulgaria, crushing a revolt of the nobility in 866 and overthrowing his own son Vladimir (r.889–893) after he attempted to restore the traditional religion. In 893 he convened the Council of Preslav where it was decided that the capital of Bulgaria was to be moved from Pliska to Preslav, the Byzantine clergy was to be banished from the country and replaced with Bulgarian clerics, and Old Bulgarian language was to replace the Greek in liturgy. Bulgaria was to become the principle threat for the stability and security of the Byzantine Empire in the 10th century.\n\nThe decisions of the Council of Preslav brought an end to the Byzantine hopes to exert influence over the newly Christianized country. In 894 the Byzantines moved the Bulgarian market from Constantinople to Thessaloniki, affecting the commercial interests of Bulgaria and the principle of Byzantine–Bulgarian trade, regulated under the Treaty of 716 and later agreements on the most favoured nation basis. The new Prince, Simeon I (r.893–927), who came to be known as Simeon the Great, declared war and defeated the Byzantine army in Thrace. The Byzantines turned for aid to the Magyars, who at the time inhabited the steppes to the north-east of Bulgaria. The Magyars scored two victories over the Bulgarians and pillaged Dobrudzha but SimeonI allied with the Pechenegs further east and in 895 the Bulgarian army inflicted a crushing defeat on the Magyars in the steppes along the Southern Bug River. At the same time, the Pechenegs advanced westwards and prevented the Magyars from returning to their homeland. The blow was so heavy that the Magyars were forced to migrate west, eventually settling in the Pannonian Basin, where they eventually established the Kingdom of Hungary. In 896 the Byzantines were routed in the decisive battle of Boulgarophygon and pleaded for peace that confirmed the Bulgarian domination on the Balkans, restored the status of Bulgaria as a most favoured nation, abolished the commercial restrictions and obliged the Byzantine Empire to pay annual tribute. The peace treaty remained in force until 912 although SimeonI did violate it following the sack of Thessaloniki in 904, extracting further territorial concessions in Macedonia.\n\nIn 913 the Byzantine emperor Alexander provoked a bitter war after resolving to discontinue paying an annual tribute to Bulgaria. However, the military and ideological initiative was held by SimeonI, who was seeking \"casus belli\" to fulfil his ambition to be recognized as Emperor (in Bulgarian, \"Tsar\") and to conquer Constantinople, creating a joint Bulgarian–Roman state. In 917, the Bulgarian army dealt a crushing defeat to the Byzantines at the battle of Achelous, resulting in Bulgaria's total military supremacy in the Balkans. In the words of Theophanes Continuatus \"a bloodshed occurred, that had not happened in centuries\", and Leo the Deacon witnessed piles of bones of perished soldiers on the battlefield 50 years later. The Bulgarians built on their success with further victories at Katasyrtai in 917, Pegae in 921 and Constantinople in 922. The Bulgarians also captured the important city of Adrianople in Thrace and seized the capital of the Theme of Hellas, Thebes, deep in southern Greece. Following the disaster at Achelous, the Byzantine diplomacy incited the Principality of Serbia to attack Bulgaria from the west, but this assault was easily contained. In 924, the Serbs ambushed and defeated a small Bulgarian army, provoking a major retaliatory campaign that ended with Bulgaria's annexation of Serbia at the end of that year. Further expansion in the Western Balkans was checked by King Tomislav of Croatia, who was a Byzantine ally and defeated a Bulgarian invasion in 926. SimeonI was aware that he needed naval support to conquer Constantinople and in 922 sent envoys to the Fatimid caliph Ubayd Allah al-Mahdi Billah in Mahdia to negotiate the assistance of the powerful Arab navy. The caliph sent representatives to Bulgaria to arrange an alliance but his emissaries were captured en route by the Byzantines near the Calabrian coast. The Byzantine Emperor Romanos I Lekapenos managed to avert a Bulgarian–Arab alliance by showering the Arabs with generous gifts. The war dragged on until Simeon I's death in May 927. By then Bulgaria controlled almost all Byzantine possessions in the Balkans, but without a fleet did not attempt to storm Constantinople.\n\nBoth countries were exhausted by the huge military efforts that had taken a heavy toll on the population and economy. Simeon's successor Peter I (r.927–969) negotiated a favourable peace treaty. The Byzantines agreed to recognize him as Emperor of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church as an independent Patriarchate, as well as to pay an annual tribute. The peace was reinforced with a marriage between Peter and Romanos's granddaughter Irene Lekapene. This agreement ushered in a period of 40 years of peaceful relations between the two powers. During the first years of his reign, Peter I faced revolts by two of his three brothers, John in 928 and Michael in 930, but both were quelled. During most of his subsequent rule until 965, PeterI presided over a Golden Age of the Bulgarian state in a period of political consolidation, economic expansion and cultural activity.\n\nDespite the treaty and the largely peaceful era that followed, the strategic position of the Bulgarian Empire remained difficult. The country was surrounded by aggressive neighboursthe Magyars to the north-west, the Pechenegs and the growing power of Kievan Rus' to the north-east, and the Byzantine Empire to the south, which proved to be an unreliable neighbour. Bulgaria suffered several devastating Magyar raids between 934 and 965. The growing insecurity, as well as expanding influence of the landed nobility and the higher clergy at the expense of the personal privileges of the peasantry, led to the emergence of Bogomilism, a dualistic heretic sect that in the subsequent decades and centuries spread to the Byzantine Empire, northern Italy and southern France (cf. Cathars). To the south, the Byzantine Empire reversed the course of the Byzantine–Arab wars against the declining Abbasid Caliphate and in 965 discontinued the payment of the tribute, leading to sharp deterioration of the bilateral relations. In 968 the Byzantines incited Kievan Rus' to invade Bulgaria. In two years the Kievan Prince Svyatoslav I defeated the Bulgarian army, captured Preslav and established his capital at the important Bulgarian city of Preslavets (meaning \"Little Preslav\"). In this desperate situation the ageing PeterI abdicated, leaving the crown to his son Boris II (r.969–971), who had little choice but to cooperate with Svyatoslav. The unexpected success of the Rus' campaigns led to a confrontation with the Byzantine Empire. The Byzantine Emperor John I Tzimiskes eventually defeated Svyatoslav's forces and compelled him to leave the Balkans in 971. In the course of their campaign the Byzantines seized Preslav and detained BorisII. Initially JohnI Tzimiskes presented himself as a liberator but BorisII was promptly forced to ritually abdicate in Constantinople. Although at the time the Byzantines controlled only the eastern regions of the country, Bulgaria was proclaimed a Byzantine province.\n\nThe lands to the west of the Iskar River remained free and the Bulgarians were able to regroup headed by the four Cometopuli brothers. By 976, the youngest of them, Samuel, concentrated all power in his hands following the death of his eldest siblings. When in 976 the rightful heir to the throne, BorisII's brother Roman (r.971–997), escaped from captivity in Constantinople, he was recognized as Emperor by Samuel, who remained the chief commander of the Bulgarian army. Peace was impossible because as a result of the symbolic ending of the Bulgarian Empire following BorisII's abdication, Roman and later Samuel, were seen as rebels and the Byzantine Emperor was bound to enforce the imperial sovereignty over them. This led to more than 40 years of increasingly bitter warfare. A capable general and good politician, at first Samuel managed to turn the fortunes to the Bulgarians. The new Byzantine Emperor Basil II was decisively defeated in the Battle of the Gates of Trajan in 986 and barely escaped with his life. The Byzantine poet John Geometres wrote of the defeat:\n\nImmediately after the victory Samuel pushed east and recovered north-eastern Bulgaria with the old capitals Pliska and Preslav. In the next ten years the Bulgarian armies expanded the country south annexing the whole of Thessaly and Epirus and plundering the Peloponnese Peninsula. With the major Bulgarian military successes and the defection of a number of Byzantine officials to the Bulgarians, the prospect of the Byzantines losing all their Balkan themes was quite real. Threatened by an alliance between the Byzantines and the Serbian state of Duklja, in 997 Samuel defeated and captured its Prince Jovan Vladimir and took control of the Serb lands. In 997, following the death of Roman, the last heir of the Krum's dynasty, Samuel was proclaimed Emperor of Bulgaria. He established friendly relations with Stephen I of Hungary through a marriage between his son and heir Gavril Radomir and Stephen's daughter but eventually Gavril Radomir expelled his wife and in 1004 Hungary participated with the Byzantine forces against Bulgaria. After 1000 the tides of the war turned in favor of the Byzantines under the personal leadership of BasilII, who launched annual campaigns of methodical conquest of the Bulgarian cities and strongholds that were sometimes carried out in all twelve months of the year instead of the usual short campaigning of the epoch with the troops returning home to winter. In 1001 they seized Pliska and Preslav in the east, in 1003 a major offensive along the Danube resulted in the fall of Vidin after an eight-month siege, and in 1004 BasilII defeated Samuel in the battle of Skopje and took possession of the city. The war attrition dragged on for a decade until 1014, when the Bulgarians were decisively defeated at Kleidion. Some 14,000 Bulgarians were captured; it is said that 99 out of every 100 men were blinded, with the remaining hundredth man left with one eye so as to lead his compatriots home, earning BasilII the moniker \"Bulgaroktonos\", the Bulgar Killer. When they arrived in Samuel's residence in Prespa, the Bulgarian Emperor suffered a heart attack at the grisly sight and died two days later, on 6 October. Resistance continued for four more years under Ravril Radomir (r.1014–1015) and Ivan Vladislav (r.1015–1018) but after the demise of the latter during the siege of Dyrrhachium the nobility surrendered to BasilII and Bulgaria was annexed by the Byzantine Empire. The Bulgarian aristocracy kept its privileges, although many noblemen were transferred to Asia Minor, thus depriving the Bulgarians of their natural leaders. Although the Bulgarian Patriarchate was demoted to an archbishopric it retained its sees and enjoyed a privileged autonomy. Despite several major attempts at restoring its independence, Bulgaria remained under Byzantine rule until the brothers Asen and Peter liberated the country in 1185, establishing the Second Bulgarian Empire.\n\nThe First Bulgarian Empire was a hereditary monarchy. The monarch was responsible for the issues of peace and war. He was the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, a judge and a high priest in the pagan period. He guided the external policy of the country and could conclude treaties personally or through authorised emissaries. In the pagan period the title of the ruler was Khan. After 864 Boris I adopted the Slavic Knyaz (Prince), and since 913 the Bulgarian monarchs were recognised as Tsars (Emperors). The authority of the Khan was limited by the leading noble families and the People's Council. The People's Council included the nobility and the \"armed people\" was gathered to discuss issues of crucial importance for the state. A People's Council in 766 dethroned Khan Sabin because he was seeking peace with the Byzantines. According to the old Bulgarian tradition the Khan was first among equals and that was among the reasons for why Boris I decided to convert to Christianity, as the Christian monarch ruled by the grace of God. However, it should be noted that the divinity of the Bulgarian ruler, as well as his superiority over the Byzantine Emperor, were already asserted by Khan Omurtag (r.814–831), as stated in the Chatalar Inscription:\n\nThe second most important post in Bulgaria after the monarch was the \"kavhan\", monopolised by the members of the tentatively known \"Kavhan family\". The \"kavhan\" had broad powers and commanded the left wing of the army, and at times the whole army. He could be a co-ruler or a regent during the minority of the monarch; the sources mention that Khan Malamir \"ruled together with \"kavhan\" Isbul\" (fl. 820s–830s) and \"kavhan\" Dometian is noted as an associate [in the government] of Gavril Radomir (r. 1014–1015). The third highest-ranking official was the \"ichirgu-boila\", who commanded the right wing of the army at war and might have had the role of a foreign minister. Under his direct command were 1,300 soldiers. Historian Veselin Beshevliev assumes that the post might have been created under the reign of Khan Krum (r. 803–814), or earlier, in order to limit the power of the \"kavhan\". Although initially the Bulgarians did not have their own writing system, the presence of numerous stone inscriptions, mainly in Greek language, indicate the existence of a chancellery to the Khan that was probably organised in Byzantine manner. Part of the chancellery's staff might have been Greeks and even monks, despite the fact that the country was still pagan.\n\nAccording to an inscription dated from the reign of Khan Malamir (r.831–836) there were three classes in pagan Bulgaria\"boilas\", \"bagains\" and \"Bulgarians\", i.e. the common people. The nobility were initially known as the \"boila\" but after the 10th century the word was transformed to \"bolyar\", which was eventually adopted in many countries in Eastern Europe. Each \"boila\" clan had its own totem and was believed to had been divinely established, hence their staunch opposition to Christianity, which was seen as a threat to their privileges. Many of the clans had ancient origin that could be traced back to the time when the Bulgars inhabited the steppes to the north and east of the Black Sea. The \"Nominalia of the Bulgarian khans\" mentions monarchs of three clans that ruled Bulgaria until 766Dulo, Vokil and Ugain. The power of the principal noble families was greatly crippled in the aftermath of the anti-Christian rebellion of 866, when BorisI executed 52 leading \"boilas\" along with their families.\n\nThe \"boila\" were divided into inner and outer boilas and it was among their ranks that the holders of the highest military and administrative posts were selected. Most likely the \"outer boilas\" resided outside the capital, while the inner ones were member of the court under the direct influence of the monarch. The \"bagains\" were the second-ranking aristocratic class and were divided into numerous ranks. The presence of two separate nobility classes is further confirmed in the \"Responsa Nicolai ad consulta Bulgarorum\" (Responses of Pope Nicholas I to the Questions of the Bulgarians), where BorisI wrote about \"primates\" and \"mediocres seu minores\". Another privileged group were the \"tarkhans\", although from the surviving inscriptions it is impossible to determine whether they belonged to the \"boilas\" or to the \"bagains\", or were a separate class. The original Bulgar titles and many of the institutions from the pagan era were preserved after the Christianisation of Bulgaria until the very fall of the First Empire. The beginning of the 9th century was marked with a process of incorporation of both Slavs and Byzantine Greeks in the ranks of the Bulgarian nobility and privileged classes, which increased the power of the monarch that had been previously curtailed by the leading Bulgar aristocratic families. Since that time certain Slavic titles became more prominent, such as \"župan\", and some of them mingled forming titles like \"župan tarkhan\".\n\nThe peasants lived in rural communities known as \"zadruga\" and had collective responsibility. The majority of the peasantry were personally free under the direct rule of the central administration and the legislation introduced following the adoption of Christianity regulated their relations. The number of personally dependent peasants bound to nobility or ecclesiastical estates increased since the 10th century.\n\nDue to the limited remaining sources it is very difficult to reconstruct the administrative evolution and division of the country. Initially the Slavic tribes retained their autonomy but since the beginning of the 9th century commenced a process of centralisation. As Bulgaria's territory steadily expanded the measures against the tribal autonomy were deemed necessary in order to achieve more effective control and to prevent separatism. When in the 820s some Slavic tribes in western Bulgaria, the Timochani, Branichevtsi and Abodriti sought overlordship from the Franks, Khan Omurtag replaced their chieftains with his own governors. The country was divided into \"comitati\", governed by a \"comita\", although this term was used by Western European chroniclers, who wrote in Latin. It is likely that the Bulgarians used the term \"земя\" (\"zemya\", meaning \"land\"), as mentioned in the Court Law for the People. Their number is unknown, but the Archbishop of Reims Hincmar mentioned that the 866 rebellion against Boris I was headed by the nobility of the 10 \"comitati\". They were further divided into \"župi\", that in turn consisted of \"zadrugi\". The \"comita\" was appointed by the monarch, and was assisted by a \"tarkhan\". The former had many civil and administrative functions, while the latter was responsible for the military affairs. One of the few \"comitati\" known by name was Kutmichevitsa in south-western Bulgaria, corresponding to modern western Macedonia, southern Albania and north-western Greece.\n\nThe first know written Bulgarian law code was issued by Khan Krum at a People's Council in the very beginning of the 9th century but the text has not survived in its integrity and only certain items have been preserved in the 10th-century Byzantine encyclopedia \"Suda\". It prescribed death penalty for false oaths and false accusations and severe penalties for thieves and those who gave them shelter. The \"Suda\" also mentioned that the laws foresaw the uprooting of all vineyards as a measure against drunkenness but this claim is refuted in the contemporary sources that indicate that after capturing Pliska in 811 the Byzantine Emperor NicephorusI found large quantities of wine; and after the final Bulgarian victory Krum drank wine in the Emperor's skull. Krum's legal code is seen by many historians as an attempt to centralise the state and to end the different element of the society by putting them under a single set of law. However, since the text is not preserved its precise aims remain unknown.\n\nAfter the conversion to Christianity BorisI was concerned with the legal matters and asked Pope Nicholas I to provide legal texts. Eventually, under his reign was compiled the \"Законъ соудный людьмъ\" (\"Zakon sudnyi ljud'm\"), or the Court Law for the People, based heavily on the Byzantine Ecloga and Nomocanon, but adapted to the Bulgarian conditions and valid for the whole population of the country. It combined element of civil, criminal, canon and military law, as well as public and private law, and included substantive norms and procedural guidelines. The Court Law for the People dealt with combating paganism, testimony of witnesses, sexual morality, marital relations, distribution of war booty, etc. To eradicate the residual paganism the law provided that a village that allowed performance of pagan rituals should be transferred along its whole land to the Church; and should a rich landowner perform them, his lands were to be sold, and the revenue shared among the poor.\n\nAfter the formation of the Bulgarian state the ruling elite harboured deep distrust towards the Byzantines against whose perfidy and sudden attacks they had to maintain constant vigilance. The Byzantine Empire never relinquished its claim over all lands to the south of the Danube and made several attempts to enforce that claim. Throughout the existence of the First Empire Bulgaria could expect Byzantine onslaughts aimed at its destruction. The steppes to the north-east were home to numerous peoples whose unpredictable pillaging raids were also of concern. Therefore, military preparedness was a top priority. All borders of the country were under vigilance. Guards always stood on the alert and if anyone was to flee during a watch, the responsible guards are killed without hesitation. Before battle, a \"most faithful and prudent man\" was sent to inspect all the arms, horses, and materiel and being ill-prepared or readied in a useless fashion was punishable by death. Capital punishment was also prescribed for riding war horses in peace time.\n\nThe Bulgarian army was armed with various types of weapons, the most widely used being sabres, swords, battle axes, spears, pikes, daggers, arkans, bows and arrows. The soldiers were often trained to use both spears and bows. The Bulgarians wore helms, mails and shields for defence. The helms were usually cone-shaped, the shields were round and light. The mails were two typeswedge riveted mails consisting of small metal rings linked together, and scale armour consisting of small armour plates attached to each other. Belts were very important for the early Bulgarians and were often decorated with golden, silver, bronze or copper buckles that manifested the illustrious origin of the holder.\n\nThe most important part of the army was the heavy cavalry. In the early 9th century the Bulgarian Khan could muster 30,000 riders \"all covered in iron\" who were armoured with iron helms and chain-mails. The horses too were covered with armour. As the capital Pliska was situated in an open plain the cavalry was essential for its protection. The fortification system of the inner regions of the country was reinforced with several fortified trenches covering huge spaces and supporting the manoeuvrability of the cavalry.\n\nThe army was well versed in the use of stratagems. A strong cavalry unit was often held in reserve and would attack the enemy at an opportune moment. Free horses would be sometimes concentrated behind the battle formation to avoid surprise attacks from the rear. The Bulgarian army used ambushes and feigned retreats, during which the cavalrymen rode with their backs to the horse, firing clouds of arrows on the enemy. If the enemy pursued disorganized, they would turn back and fiercely attack them. The Bulgarians were able to fight at nightin 917 they defeated the Byzantine in the battle of Katasyrtai after a nocturnal combat. The army employed \"ruse de guerre\". In 918 the Bulgarians took the capital of the Byzantine theme Hellas Thebes without bloodshed after sending into the city five men with axes who eliminated the guards, broke the hinges of the gates, and opened them to the main forces.\n\nThe Bulgarian army was well equipped with siege engines. The Bulgarians employed the services of Byzantine and Arab captives and fugitives to produce siege equipment, such as the engineer Eumathius, who sought refuge to Khan Krum after the capture of Serdica in 809. The 9th century anonymous Byzantine chronicler known as \"Scrptor incertus\" lists the contemporary machinery produced and used by the Bulgarians. These included catapults; scorpions; multi-storey siege towers with a battering ram on the bottom floor; \"testudos\"battering rams with metal plating on the top; \"τρίβόλοι\"iron tridents placed hidden amidst the battlefield to hinder the enemy cavalry; ladders, etc. Iron-plated wagons were used for transportation. It is known that Khan Krum prepared 5,000 such wagons for his intended siege of Constantinople in 814. Wooden pontoon bridges were also constructed for crossing rivers.\n\nAgriculture was the most important sector of the economy whose development was favoured by the fertile soils of Moesia, Thrace, and partly, Macedonia. The land was divided into \"lord's lands\" and \"village lands\". The most widespread cereals were wheat, rye and millet that were the staple food for the populace. Other crops of significance were grapes, orchards, especially after the 9th century, and linen. The latter was used for fabrics and cloths that were exported to the Byzantine Empire. Due to natural calamities, such as droughts or locusts, harvests were not secure and there were occasional hunger years. In response to this problem the state maintained depositories of cereals as a reserve. Animal husbandry was well developed, the main stocks being cattle, oxen, buffalos, sheep, pigs and horses. Animal stocks were vital for farming, transport, military, clothing and food. The importance of the meat for the Bulgarian table was demonstrated in the \"Responses of Pope Nicholas I to the Questions of the Bulgarians\", where seven out of 115 questions concerned meat consumption.\n\nSmall-scale mining was developed in the Balkan Mountains, the Rhodope Mountains and some regions of Macedonia. A number of diverse handicrafts thrived in the urban centres and some villages. Preslav had workshops that processed metals (especially gold and silver), stone and wood, and produced ceramics, glass and jewellery. The Bulgarians produced tiles with higher qualities than the Byzantines and exported them to the Byzantine Empire and Kievan Rus'. There was large-scale production of bricks in eastern Bulgaria, many of them marked with the symbol \"IYI\", which is associated with the Bulgarian state, indicating possible state-organised production facilities. Since the destruction of the Avar Khaganete in the beginning of the 9th century Bulgaria controlled the salt mines in Transylvania until they were overran by the Magyars a century earlier. The importance of the salt trade was illustrated during the negotiations for alliance between Bulgaria and East Francia in 892 when the Frankish King Arnulf demanded that Bulgaria discontinue the export of salt to Great Moravia.\n\nTrade had an important weight in the economy, as Bulgaria lay between the Byzantine Empire, Central Europe, the Rus' and the steppes. Trade relations with the Byzantine Empire was regulated on a most favoured nation basis by treaties that included commercial clauses. The first such treaty was signed in 716 and determined that goods could only be imported or exported when provided with a state seal. Goods without documents were to be confiscated for the state treasury. The Bulgarian merchants had a colony in Constantinople and paid favourable taxes. The relevance of international trade for Bulgaria was evident, as the country was willing to go to war with the Byzantine Empire when in 894 the latter moved the market of the Bulgarian traders from Constantinople to Thessaloniki, where they had to pay larger taxes and did not have direct access to goods from the east. In 896 the war was won and the status of Bulgaria as a most favoured nation restored and commercial restrictions – abolished. Some Bulgarian towns acquired great prosperity, such as Preslavets on the Danube that was described in the 960s as being more prosperous that the capital of the Rus', Kiev. A contemporary chronicle lists the main trade partners and chief imports to Bulgaria. The country imported gold, silks, wine and fruits from the Byzantine Empire, silver and horses from Hungary and Bohemia, furs, honey, wax and slaves from the Rus'. There were commercial ties with Italy and the Middle East as well.\n\nThe First Bulgarian Empire did not mint coins and taxes were paid in kind. It is not known whether they were based on land or on person, or both. In addition to the taxes the peasantry must have had other obligations, such as building and maintaining infrastructure and defences, as well as to provide food and inventory to the army. The Arab writer Al-Masudi noted that instead of money the Bulgarians used cows and sheep to buy goods.\n\nThe density of the network of towns was high. The economic historian Paul Bairoch estimated that in 800 Pliska had 30,000 inhabitants and around 950 Preslav had some 60,000 making it the largest city in non-Muslim Europe, save Constantinople. In comparison, the largest cities in contemporary France and Italy did not reach 30,000 and 50,000 respectively. Alongside the two capitals existed other prominent urban centres that made Bulgaria the most urbanised region in Christian Europe at the time along with Italy. According to contemporary chronicles there were 80 towns only in the region of the lower Danube. Surviving sources list more than 100 settlements in the western areas of the Empire where the Bulgarian Orthodox Church possessed properties. The larger urban centres consisted of an inner and an outer town. The inner town would be encircled with stone walls and had administrative and defence functions, while the outer town, usually unprotected, was the centre of economic activities with markets, workshops, vineyards, gardens and dwellings for the populace. However, it should be noted that as elsewhere in the Early Middle Ages, the country remained predominantly rural.\n\nIn the first almost two centuries after its creation, the Bulgarian state remained pagan. The Bulgars and the Slavs continued to practice their indigenous religions. The Bulgar religion was monotheistic, linked to the cult to Tangra, the God of the Sky. The worship of Tangra is proven by an inscription that reads \"Kanasubigi Omurtag, a divine ruler ... performed sacrifice to God Tangra\". The ruling Khan had an important place in the religious life; he was the high priest and performed rituals. A large sanctuary dedicated to the cult of Tangra existed near the modern village of Madara. The Bulgars practised shamanism, believed in magic and charms, and performed various rituals. Some of the rituals were described by the Byzantines after the \"most Christian\" ruler Leo V had to pour out water on the ground from a cup, to personally turn round horse saddles, to touch triple bridle, to lift grass high above the ground and to cut up dogs as witnesses during the ceremony of the signing of the Byzantine–Bulgarian Treaty of 815. The pouring of water was a reminder that if the oath is broken, blood would pour out. In the same sense can be explained the turning of the saddlea warning that the violator would not be able to ride or would fall dead from his horse during battle. The triple bridle symbolised the toughness of the agreement and the lifting of grass reminded that no grass would remain in the enemy country if the peace was broken. The sacrifice of dogs was a common custom among the Turkic peoples which further strengthened the treaty.\n\nThe Slavs worshiped numerous deities. The supreme god was Perun, the god of thunder and lightning. Perun was the only god mentioned (though not by name) by the first authoritative reference to the Slavic mythology in written history, the 6th-century Byzantine historian Procopius, who described the Slavs that settled south of the Danube. Procopius noted that they also worshipped rivers and believed in nymphs. A number of mythological beings from the Slavic pantheon have persisted in Bulgarian folklore to the present, such as samodivas, halas, vilas, rusalkas, slavic dragons, etc. During sacrifices the Slavs would perform divinations. After the adoption of Christianity the worship of Perun merged with the cult of Saint Elijah.\n\nChristianity was practised in Bulgaria throughout the whole pagan period. Its dissemination among the populace increased as a result of the successful wars of Khan Krum in the beginning of the 9th century. Krum employed many Byzantine ChristiansGreeks, Armenians and Slavsin his military and administration; some of them served as deputies of the \"kavhan\" and the \"ichirgu-boila\". Tens of thousands Byzantines were resettled across Bulgaria, mainly beyond the Danube River to protect the north-eastern borders, so that they could face non-Byzantines. Many of them, however, maintained clandestine links with the Byzantine court which fuelled the traditional distrust of the Bulgarian elite and resulted in a large-scale persecution of Christianity under the Khans Omurtag and Malamir. Omurtag and the nobility saw the Christians as Byzantine agents and felt that this religion, with its hierarchy based in Byzantium, was a threat to Bulgarian independence. There were some executions, including two of the five \"strategoi\" who served under Krum, Leo and John, the metropolitan of Adrianople, the bishop of Debeltos, etc. The list of the martyred Christians included Bulgar (Asfer, Kuberg) and Slav names. The dismissive attitude of the Christians towards the pagans was insulting to the Bulgarian elite. In a conversation with a Byzantine Christian Omurtag told him: \"Do not humiliate our gods, for their power is great. As a proof, we who worship them, have conquered the whole Roman state\". Yet, despite all measures, Christianity continued to spread, reaching the members of the Khan's own family. Omurtag's eldest son Enravota, seen as pro-Christian, was disinherited and eventually converted to Christianity. After refusing to renounce his faith, he was executed by orders of his brother Malamir c. 833 and became the first Bulgarian saint. The attitude of the Bulgarian rulers to Christianity is seen in the Philippi Inscription of Khan Presian:\n\nBy 863 Presian's successor Khan BorisI had decided to accept Christianity. The sources do not mention the reasons behind this decision but there were several political rationales that he had considered. As Christianity was spreading further into Europe in the 9th century the pagan countries found themselves encircled by Christian powers which could use religion as an acceptable excuse for aggression. Conversion on the other hand would establish the country as an equal international partner. There is evidence that Bulgaria did have contacts with the Muslim world as welleither directly or through Volga Bulgaria that had adopted Islam at about the same timebut the country was far away from any Muslim country that could be of any political benefit, and large part of the population had already been Christian. Furthermore, the Christian doctrine would cement the monarch's position high above the nobility as an autocrat, being ruler \"by the grace of God\" and God's representative on Earth. Moreover, Christianity presented excellent opportunity to firmly consolidate both Bulgars and Slavs in a single Bulgarian people under common religion.\n\nIn 863 BorisI sought a mission from East Francia rather than from the Byzantine Empire. He had an alliance with the Eastern Franks since 860 and was aware that the larger distance between the two countries was an obstacle for them to yield direct influence on the future Bulgarian Church. He was fully aware that as a neighbour Byzantium would try to interfere with Bulgarian matters. Indeed, the Byzantine Empire was determined to place the Bulgarian Church under the jurisdiction of Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople because it hoped it could serve as a leverage to influence the Bulgarian policies, and furthermore could not allow Bulgaria to become a military tool of the Papacy that could potentially be employed by the Pope to enforce his wishes on the Empire. Upon learning about BorisI's intentions the Byzantine Emperor Michael III invaded Bulgaria. At the time the Bulgarian army was engaged in warfare against Great Moravia to the north-east and BorisI agreed to negotiate. The Byzantines' only demand was BorisI to adopt Christianity from Constantinople and to accept Byzantine clergy to evangelise the population. Boris I conceded and was baptised in 864 taking the name of his godfather, Emperor Michael.\n\nThe highest posts in the newly established Bulgarian Church were held by Byzantines who preached in Greek language. Aware of the dangers that the spiritual dependency on the Byzantine Empire could pose for Bulgaria's independence, BorisI was determined to ensure the autonomy of the Bulgarian Church under a Patriarch. Since the Byzantines were reluctant to grant any concessions Boris I took advantage on the ongoing rivalry between the Patriarchate of Constantinople and the Papacy in Rome in order to prevent either of them from exerting influence in his lands through religion. In 866 he sent a delegation to Rome under the high-ranking official Peter declaring his desire to accept Christianity in accordance with the Western rites along with 115 questions to Pope Nicholas I. The Pope's detailed answers to BorisI's questions were delivered by two bishops heading a mission to facilitate the conversion of the Bulgarian people. However, neither NicolasI nor his successor Adrian II agreed to recognize an autonomous Bulgarian Church, which cooled the relations between the two sides. Bulgaria's shift towards Rome on the other hand, made the Byzantines much more conciliatory. In 870, at the Fourth Council of Constantinople, the Bulgarian Church was recognized as an autocephalous Eastern Orthodox Church under the supreme direction of the Patriarch of Constantinople.\n\nThe adoption of Christianity was met with opposition by large layers of the nobility. In 866 BorisI faced a major rebellion of the \"boila\" from all parts of the country. The insurgency was crushed and 52 leading \"boilas\" were executed along with their whole kin. After BorisI abdicated in 889 his successor and eldest son Vladimir (r.889–893) attempted to restore paganism but his father took arms against him and had him deposed and blinded.\n\nSince 870 the Bulgarian Church was autonomous under an archbishop. The decree of autonomy under the nominal ecclesiastical jurisdiction of Constantinople was far greater than could possibly had been achieved under the Papacy. Following the Fourth Council of Constantinople the Byzantine clergy was once again admitted to Bulgaria and allowed to preach in Greek. However, as a result of the Council of Preslav in 893 Old Bulgarian was declared the official language of the state and the Church and the Greek-speaking Byzantine priests had to leave the country. Thus, the church was entirely staffed by Bulgarians.\n\nBorisI's successor SimeonI was not content to have the Bulgarian Church with the rank of archbishopric and was determined to raise it to a patriarchate, in light of his own ambition to become an emperor. He was well acquainted with the Byzantine imperial tradition that the autocrat must have a patriarch and there could be no empire without a patriarchate. In the aftermath of his remarkable triumph over the Byzantines in the battle of Achelous, in 918 he convened a council and elevated the archbishop Leontius as a patriarch. The decisions of that council were not recognized by the Byzantines but as a result of the Bulgarian victory in the war they eventually recognized Leontius' successor Demetrius as Patriarch of Bulgaria in 927. It was the first Patriarchate officially accepted, apart from the ancient Pentarchy. It is likely that the seat of the Patriarchate was in the city of Drastar on the Danube River rather than in the capital Preslav. In the late 10th century the Bulgarian Patriarchate included the following dioceses: Ohrid, Kostur, Glavinitsa (in modern southern Albania), Maglen, Pelagonia, Strumitsa, Morovizd (in modern northern Greece), Velbazhd, Serdica, Braničevo, Niš, Belgrade, Srem, Skopje, Prizren, Lipljan, Servia, Drastar, Voden, Ras, Chernik, Himara, Drinopol, Butrint, Yanina, Petra and Stag.\n\nAfter the fall of the eastern parts of the empire under Byzantine occupation in 971 the seat of the Patriarchate was relocated to Ohrid in the west. With the final conquest of Bulgaria in 1018 the Patriarchate was demoted to an archbishopric but retained many privileges. It kept control of all existing episcopal sees, the seat remained in Ohrid and its titular, the Bulgarian John of Debar, kept his office. Furthermore, the Bulgarian archbishopric was given a special positionit was placed directly under the emperor rather than under the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople.\n\nMonasticism grew steadily and the monasteries quickly became major landowners with large population of peasants living their estates. It developed further under the reign of Emperor Peter I, accompanied with augmentation of their properties. Many high-ranking nobles and members of the ruling family tonsured and died as monks, including Boris I, his brother Doks, Peter I, the \"ichirgu-boila\" Mostich, etc. The growing opulence of monastic life led to an increase of asceticism among more pious monks. One of them, John of Rila, became a hermit in the Rila Mountains and his virtues soon attracted a number of followers, who founded the renowned Rila Monastery after his death. He preached about living in harmony and stressed the value of manual labour and the need the monks never to aspire to riches and power. John of Rila was revered as a saint while he was still alive and eventually became patron of the Bulgarian people.\n\nIn the 10th century Bulgarian clerics established connections with the emerging Christian communities in the Rus'. Bulgaria seems to had been an established centre from where the small number of Ruthenian Christians obtained clergy and liturgical texts. As a result of the Sviatoslav's invasion of Bulgaria many of his soldiers were influenced by Christianity and maintained that interest after their return. The connections between Bulgarians and Ruthenians must be considered an important background to the official conversion to Christianity of Kievan Rus' in 988.\n\nDuring the reign of Emperor PeterI (r.927–969) in Bulgaria arose a heretical movement known as Bogomilism. The heresy was named after its founder the priest Bogomil whose name can be translated as dear (\"mil\") to God (\"Bog\"). The main sources about Bogomilism in Bulgaria come from a letter of the Ecumenical Patriarch Theophylact of Constantinople to Peter I (c.940), a treatise by Cosmas the Priest (c.970) and the anti-Bogomil council of Emperor Boril of Bulgaria (1211). Bogomilism was a neo-Gnostic and dualist sect that believed that God had two sons, Jesus Christ and Satan, that represented the two principles good and evil. God had created light and the invisible world, while Satan rebelled and created darkness, the material world and man. Therefore, they rejected marriage, reproduction, the Church, the Old Testament, the Cross, etc. The Bogomils were divided into several categories, led by the \"perfecti\" (the perfect ones) that never married, consumed no meat and wine and preached the gospel. Women too could become \"perfecti\". The other two categories were the \"believers\", who had to adopt and follow most of the Bogomil moral ethics, and the \"listeners\", who were not required to change their lifestyle. The Bogomils were described by Cosmas as looking docile, modest and silent from the outside, but being hypocrites and ravenous wolves in the inside. The Bulgarian Orthodox Church condemned the teachings of Bogomilism and members of the sect were persecuted by the state authorities as well since the Bogomils preached civil disobedience because as anything earthly the state was considered to be linked with Satan. The sect could not be eradicated and from Bulgaria it eventually spread to the rest of the Balkans, the Byzantine Empire, southern France and northern Italy. In certain regions of Western Europe the heresy flourished under different namesCathars, Albigensians, Patarinsuntil the 14th century.\n\nThe Bulgarian state existed before the formation of the Bulgarian people. Prior to the establishment of the Bulgarian state the Slavs had mingled with the native Thracian population. The population and the density of the settlements increased after 681 and the differences between the individual Slavic tribes gradually disappeared as communications became regular between the regions of the country. By the second half of the 9th century, Bulgars and Slavs had lived together for almost two centuries and the more numerous Slavs were on the way to assimilate the Bulgars. Many Bulgars had already started to use the Slavic Old Bulgarian language while the Turkic Bulgar language gradually died out leaving only certain words and terms. The Christianization of Bulgaria and the establishment of Old Bulgarian as a language of the state and the Church under BorisI further accelerated that process and were the main means to bind together Bulgars and Slavs and to make the Slavs of Macedonia and the other reaches of the country into Bulgarians. The new religion dealt a crushing blow on the privileges of the old Bulgar aristocracy and furthermore by that time many Bulgars were presumably speaking Slavic. Boris I made it a national policy to use the doctrine of Christianity, that had neither Slavic or Bulgar origin, to bind them together in a single culture. As a result, by the end of the 9th century the Bulgarians had become a single Slavic nationality with ethnic awareness that was to survive in triumph and tragedy to present.\n\nThe cultural heritage of the First Bulgarian Empire is usually defined in Bulgarian historiography as the Pliska-Preslav culture, named after the first two capitals, Pliska and Preslav, where most of the surviving monuments are concentrated. Many monuments of that period have been found around Madara, Shumen, Novi Pazar, the village of Han Krum in north-eastern Bulgaria, as well in the territory of modern Romania, where Romanian archaeologists called it the \"Dridu culture\". Remains left by the First Empire have also been discovered in southern Bessarabia, now divided between Ukraine and Moldova, as well as in modern Republic of Macedonia, Albania and Greece. A treatise of the 10th-century Bulgarian cleric and writer Cosmas the Priest describes a wealthy, book-owning and monastery-building Bulgarian elite, and the preserved material evidence suggests a prosperous and settled picture of Bulgaria.\n\nThe first capital Pliska initially resembled a huge encampment spanning an area of 23km with the eastern and western sides measuring some 7km in length, the northern3.9km, and the southern2.7km. The whole area was encircled by a trench 3.5m wide in the foundation and 12m wide in the upper part and earthen escarpment with similar proportions12m wide in the foundation and 3.5m in the upper past. The inner town measured 740m to the north and to the south, 788m to the west, and 612m to the east. It was protected by stone walls 10m high and 2.6m thick, constructed by large carved blocks. There were four gates, each protected by two pairs of quadrangular towers. The corners were protected by cylindrical towers and there were pentagonal towers between each corner and gate tower. The inner town harboured the Khan's palace, temples, and nobility houses. The palace complex included baths, a pool and a heating system. There were several inns, as well as numerous shops and workshops. \n\nThe Bulgarians also constructed forts with residences, called by the contemporary Byzantine authors \"auls\", or fortified palaces. An example of this type of construction is the Aul of Omurtag, mentioned in the Chatalar Inscription, which bears many similarities with Pliska, such as the presence of baths and the usage of monumental construction techniques with large carved limestone blocks. The archaeologists have discovered a damaged lion statue that was originally 1 m in height and matches the description in the inscription: \"In the field of Pliska staying he [Omurtag] made a court/camp (aulis) at [the river] Ticha ... and skillfully erected a bridge at Ticha together with the camp [he put] four columns and above the columns he erected two lions.\" The same method of construction was employed in the fortress on the Danubian island of Păcuiul lui Soare (in modern Romania), where the gate is similar in plan with those at Pliska, Preslav and the Aul of Omurtag. Further north on the southern slopes of the Carpathian Mountains was located the fortress Slon, which was an important juncture that connected the salt mines of Transylvania with the lands to the south of the Danube, and was constructed in the same manner.\n\nThe second capital Preslav covered an area of 5 km in the shape of irregular pentagon and like Pliska was divided into inner and outer town. The city experienced an extensive construction programme under Simeon I who intended it to rival Constantinople. The inner town contained two palaces, called by the archaeologists the Western Palace and the Throne Hall that were linked. Very few elements of the decoration have survived marble plates and two monolith columns of green marble that probably enclosed the arch above the throne. The whole complex was larger than the Pliska Palace and was walled with the bath adjoining the southern wall. A ceremonial road covered with stone plates linked the northern gate and the palace complex and formed a spacious plaza in front of it. The outer town housed estates, churches, monasteries, workshops and dwellings. Adjoined to the outer side of southern gates of the inner town there was a large trading edifice with 18 rooms for commerce on the first floor and accommodation rooms on the second. The most common plan of the commercial, artesian and residential monastic edifices was rectangular with the first floor being used for production, and the second one for living. Some of the buildings had marble or ceramic tile floors, and others had verandas on the second floor. There were two types of plumbingmade of masonry or of clay pipes that brought water from the mountains to the city.\n\nAfter the adoption of Christianity in 864, intensive construction of churches and monasteries began throughout the Empire. Many of them were erected over the old pagan temples. The new sacral architecture altered the appearance of the cities and fortresses. This construction was sponsored by the state but also by donations by rich people, known as \"ktitors\". Among the first places of worship to be constructed after 864 was the Great Basilica of Pliska. It was one of the biggest structures of the time, as well as contemporary Europe's longest church, with rectangular shape reaching 99m in length. The basilica was divided into two almost equal partsa spacious atrium and the main building.\n\nDuring the reign of SimeonI the domed cruciform type of church building was introduced and same to dominate the country's sacral architecture. Preslav was adorned with tens of churches and at least eight monasteries. The churches were decorated with ceramics, plastic elements and a variety of decorative forms. The leading example of the city's ecclesiastic architecture is the splendid Round Church. It was a domed rotunda with a two-tiered colonnade in the interior and a walled atrium with niches and columns. The style of the church had been influenced by Armenian, Byzantine and Carolingian architecture. There were also a number of cave monasteries, such as the Murfatlar Cave Complex, where excavations have revealed stone relief murals and inscriptions in three alphabetsGlagolitic, Cyrillic and Greek, as well as Bulgar runes.\n\nIn the region of Kutmichevitsa to the south-west, Clement of Ohrid oversaw the construction of the Monastery of Saint Panteleimon and two churches with \"round and spherical form\" in the late 9th century. In 900 the Monastery of Saint Naum was established at the expense of \"the pious Bulgarian Tsar Michael-Boris and his son Tsar Simeon\" on the shores of Lake Ohrid at some 30km to the south of the town as a major literary centre. Other important buildings were the Church of Saint Sophia in Ohrid the Basilica of Saint Achillius on and island in Lake Prespa with dimensions of 30 х 50m, both modelled after the Great Basilica of Pliska. These churches had three naves and three apses. Preserved edifices from that period that provide evidence of the rich and settled Bulgarian culture at the time include three small churches dated from the late 9th or early 10th centuries in Kostur and the church in the village of German (both in modern Greece).\n\nThe most representative surviving art monument is the Madara Rider, a large relief carving commissioned by Khan Tervel following his triumph in 705. It is the only relief of its kind, having no parallel in Europe. The relief depicts a composition of a horseman, a lion and a dog at 23 m above ground level in an almost vertical 100 m high cliff of the Madara Plateau. All figures are in motion. The rider, facing right, is thrusting a spear into the lion lying at his horse's feet, and on the left the dog is running after the horseman. The carving of the horseman halo, garments, as well the bird in front of the horseman face, are barely recognizable due to the erosion and bad condition of the monument. The Madara Rider was included in the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1979.\n\nThe meaning and symbolism of the depiction is uncertain, as well its actual masonry tradition and cultural source. The origin of the relief is connected with the Bulgar ethnogenesisthe semi-nomadic equestrian warrior culture from the Eurasian Steppe. The Madara Rider bears resemblance to the Persian Sasanian rock relief tradition. The hero-horseman is also a common character of Turko-Altaic and Alanic mythology. It is sometimes considered that the horseman represents or is related to the Bulgar deity Tangra, while Russian philologist Vladimir Toporov related it to the Iranian deity Mithra. Some considered it an example of the Thracian horsemana recurring motif of a deity in the form of a horseman in the Paleo-Balkanic mythology.\n\nSculpture and stone carving were well-developed to supply the demand for public and sacral buildings. Many details of marble carving have been excavated in Preslav. The decoration included animals such as griffins, rabbits and birds, as well as vegetative elements (most often palmettes and grape leaves) and geometric motifs. There were also three-dimensional animal figures discovered in church No. 1 in Preslav, including heads of lions and lionesses.\n\nThe main sources for Bulgarian domestic use-oriented pottery are the necropoleis at Novi Pazar, Devnya, and Varna. The vessels were made with a potter's wheel, unlike Slavic practice. Since the 9th century two-story ovens were used for the annealing of the pottery. The shape and decoration of the early Bulgarian pottery was similar to that found in northern Caucasus, the Crimea, and the shores of the Sea of Azov. The growing exchange with the Byzantine Empire following the adoption of Christianity led to an increase in the shapes and decorations of the Bulgarian pottery that was unprecedented in the Slavic world.\n\nOne of the most famous features of the Pliska-Preslav culture was the decoration of palaces and churches with lacquered ceramic plates, which may indicate a Near Eastern (Arabic) influence. They were produced of white clay, known also as kaolin. In the 10th century the ceramic workshops in and around Preslav produced high quality ceramic tiles in the so-called \"Preslav style\" that were widely used in monumental construction projects and were also exported abroad. Many of them were marked with Cyrillic or Glagolitic letters on the rear side. Archaeologists have discovered tile of that style in Kiev, showing Bulgarian influences in Kievan Rus. The ceramic plates were painted mostly to include geometric or vegetative elements and sometimes birds. Some had depictions of the Virgin, saints and apostles, both in full figures, portraits and medallions. Due to the destruction of Pliska and Preslav, only fragments and details of the ceramic decoration have survived. Among the most notable of those is the well-preserved, 20-tile \"Icon of St Theodore\", found in the ruins of the Patleina Monastery of Saint Panteleimon in the outskirts of Preslav which was the site of one of the workshops. The extensive use of ceramic decoration in Preslav and the nearby churches and monasteries most probably pre-dates its widespread use in Constantinople.\n\nAlthough the BorisI had succeeded in securing an autonomous Church, the higher clergy and theological books were still Greek, which impeded the efforts to convert the populace to the new religion. Between 860 and 863 the Byzantine monks Saints Cyril and Methodius created the Glagolitic alphabet, the first Slavic alphabet by order of the Byzantine Emperor, who aimed to convert Great Moravia to Orthodox Christianity. The language they used was called by later historians Old Church Slavonic and was based on the local Slavic dialect spoken in the region of Thessaloniki, hence it is also known as Old Bulgarian. Ultimately, the brothers' mission to establish Slavic liturgy in Great Moravia failed. In 886 their disciples Clement, Naum and Angelarius, who had been banished from Great Moravia, reached Bulgaria and received a warm welcome by Boris I. They began to preach in Bulgaria and thus the work of the Slavic mission of Cyril and Methodius was saved.\n\nThe Bulgarian monarch commissioned the creation of two theological academies to be headed by the disciples where the future Bulgarian clergy was to be instructed in Bulgarian vernacular. Clement was sent to the southwestern province Kutmichevitsa in Macedonia, where he founded the Ohrid Literary School. There, he educated 3,500 pupils between 886 and 907. Naum established the literary school in the capital Pliska, which moved later to the new capital Preslav. Eventually, Naum too was sent to Ohrid. The rationale to centre the literary activities far away from the capital was that at the time a Byzantine archbishop still resided in Pliska. In the late 9th or the early 10th century the Cyrillic script was created at the Preslav Literary School. It was based on the Greek letters and included a number of original ones for sounds that were non-existent in Greek, adding 14 letters to the existing 24 Greek ones. In the next few decades the new script replaced the Glagolitic alphabet in Bulgaria and eventually spread in the whole Eastern Orthodox Slavic world. Today more than 250 million people in Eurasia use it as the official alphabet for their national languages.\n\nThe development of Old Church Slavonic literacy had the effect of preventing the assimilation of the South Slavs into neighbouring cultures, while stimulating the formation of the distinct Bulgarian identity. Initially translation from Byzantine Greek of texts on theology, history and geography was a priority. Literary activities flourished during the reign of SimeonI who had personal interest in literature. He gathered many scholars in the court who translated an enormous number of books from Greek and wrote many new works. Among the most prominent figures were Constantine of Preslav, John the Exarch and Chernorizets Hrabar, who is believed by some historians to had been SimeonI himself. They wrote hagiographies, panegyrics, acolouthia, poetry, liturgical hymns, treatises on church music, etc.\n\nOne of the first original works was \"On the Letters\" (\"О писмєньхъ\") by Chernorizets Hrabar, where he defended the Cyrillic alphabet against its Byzantine Greek critics and proved not only its right to existence but also its superiority to the Greek alphabet arguing that the Greek letters were neither the oldest known to man, nor divine. In the form of rhetoric questions and answers \"On the Letters\" demonstrated excellent historic and linguistic knowledge of Chernorizets Hrabar, as he indicated that \"God did not first create the Hebrew or the Greek language, but Syrian which Adam spoke...\" and underlined that \"Before then the Greeks had no alphabet of their own but wrote their speech with Phoenician letters.\" Constantine of Preslav and John the Exarch combined translated and adapted Byzantine works with original texts. The latter compiled the \"Shestodnev\" (\"Шестоднев\" – Hexameron) that included valuable first-hand evidence about the Bulgarian Empire under Simeon I. Constantine of Preslav's \"Didactic Gospel\" was the first systematic work treating sermons in Slavic literature that also featured the poetic preface \"Azbuchna molitva\" (\"Азбучна молитва\" – Alphabet Prayer), the first original poetry in Bulgarian language. Later, Cosmas the Priest wrote the anti-Bogomil treatise \"Sermon Against the Heretics\" which apart from the theological arguments contained criticism on the contemporary Bulgarian society, with particular attention to religious and social issues.\n\nApart from the official literature, apocryphical texts were also written and received impetus after the second half of the 10th century, as imperial patronage ceased during the Byzantine conquest and subsequent Byzantine rule in Bulgaria. One such work expressing the Bulgarian aspirations and fears was \"Tale of the Cross Tree\" by Jeremiah the Priest that was considered heretical and was banned by the Orthodox Church.\n\nThe flourishing literary activity and the experimentation with various genres developed the style, flexibility and expressiveness of the language. The literature produced in the Old Bulgarian language soon spread north and became the lingua franca of the Balkans and Eastern Europe. Bulgarian scholars and works influenced most of the Slavic world, including Kievan Rus', medieval Serbia, and medieval Croatia, as well as the non-Slavic medieval Wallachia and Moldavia. This thriving activity came to an abrupt end with the Byzantine conquest of Bulgaria. In the following 150 years the Byzantines systematically destroyed all texts in Old Bulgarian language. None of the works of the First Empire have survived in original within its territory and those that have survived are later copies reproduced abroad, mainly in Russia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33906764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33906764", "title": "For the Last Time", "text": "For the Last Time\n\nFor the Last Time is a British music show where long-running established bands perform one last time before saying goodbye to their most loved fans as they split up for good. Episodes were presented by Christine Bleakley. \n"}
{"id": "4675815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4675815", "title": "Funky Elephant", "text": "Funky Elephant\n\nFunky Elephant is an annual springtime music festival in Helsinki, Finland. It's dedicated to a vast variety of styles within black rhythm music. Genres represented include funk, soul, Hip hop, jazz, Latin, reggae, afrobeat etc. Funky Elephant has been organized since 1994.\n\nThe festival is held at Tavastia Club and its smaller sub-club downstairs, Semifinal. The clubs are located in the very center of Helsinki.\n\nDuring the years, the festival has had such performers as\n\nPlus, many highly acclaimed DJs of the genre.\n\nOverall, the festival has had over 100 live performances and over 70 DJs.\n\nThe organizer is Funky Amigos, which is a non-profit association. Its aim is to enhance the status of modern rhythm music scene and its artists in Finland. In wider prospect, Funky Amigos also wants to encourage multi-culturality and tolerance.\n\nOther Funky Amigos' events include\n\nBesides these, Funky Amigos randomly organizes other events depending on its resources. The goal is to have some kind of activity going on all year-round.\n"}
{"id": "6768286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6768286", "title": "Genpet", "text": "Genpet\n\nGenpets are a mixed media installation art piece by artist Adam Brandejs. It is considered a \"hoax of exposure\". \nThe project has been shown in multiple galleries in Canada and Europe and has garnered some attention in the mass media.\n\nThe creations were sculpted, automated creatures made of latex and plastic, and housed robotic circuitry to simulate slow respiration. They looked like small, baldskinned and ugly humanoids, and were intended to be displayed as living, but dormant, bioengineered creatures for purchase as pets. The fabricated packaging indicated a purchaser had a choice of colors, four different personalities and levels of activity, and that the creatures had a limited vocal capacity. The sculptures and packaging, along with the professional-appearing hoax website, are so realistic that observers are often fooled.\n\nIn 2006, Genpets were featured on the weblog for The Museum of Hoaxes in San Diego, California. as well as broadcast on BBC News Worldwide on a BBC programme called \"Click\" as well as the \"Times\" (UK), the \"New York Times\" and G4TechTV.\n\nAll the work was hand done by the artist Adam Brandejs, with assistance from makeup artist Crystal Pallister for the coloring of the creatures. The pictures show the actual 19 genpet units that display at art galleries. Genpets have been displayed at multiple Fine Art galleries and museum displays in both North America and Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "27906257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27906257", "title": "Georgian Theatre Royal", "text": "Georgian Theatre Royal\n\nThe Georgian Theatre Royal is a theatre and historic Georgian playhouse in the market town of Richmond, North Yorkshire, England. It is among the oldest of Britain's extant theatres.\n\nIt was built in 1788 by the actor-manager Samuel Butler (died 1812 ) and was one of his circuit of theatres, the others being located in Beverley, Harrogate, Kendal, Northallerton, Ripon, Ulverston and Whitby, though none of these are now open. Regular performances at the theatre continued until 1830, when performances became less frequent and in 1848 it was let as an auction house. The Georgian Theatre Royal was reopened by a non-profit trust in 1963, it was expanded in 1996 and had major restoration works, including the addition of a museum, costing £1.6 million in 2002, reopening once again in 2003.\nAugust 2016 saw the opening of The Georgian Theatre Royal Experience, a small but perfectly formed museum, detailing the history of the theatre and displaying artifacts from the theatre's collection, as well as The Woodland Scene, reported to be the oldest surviving stage scenery in the world. In addition, the Paul Iles Learning Centre was reopened following extensive renovation, and now houses The Georgian Theatre Royal Youth Theatre as well as many events including volunteer open days, book groups and costume making sessions.\n\nIt is now fully restored and seats 214. The building is Grade I listed. and has hosted Georgian star Edmund Kean, and other figures such as Dame Sybil Thorndike, Joyce Grenfell and Alan Bennett. The venue also houses a 180-member youth theatre.\nThe Theatre Royal possesses the oldest known set of theatrical scenery in existence. Known as 'The Woodland Scene', it was painted in a workshop in Royston, Hertfordshire and dates back to around 1820. Dame Judi Dench is the theatre's president and Hamish Ogston and Sir Thomas Allen are vice-presidents.\n\nOn 1 May 2013 it launched a funding campaign to save it from closure. It was seeking to raise an initial £122,500.\n\n"}
{"id": "686029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=686029", "title": "Groundbreaking", "text": "Groundbreaking\n\nGroundbreaking, also known as cutting, sod-cutting, turning the first sod or a sod-turning ceremony, is a traditional ceremony in many cultures that celebrates the first day of construction for a building or other project. Such ceremonies are often attended by dignitaries such as politicians and businessmen. The actual shovel used during the groundbreaking is often a special ceremonial shovel, usually colored gold, meant to be saved for subsequent display and may be engraved.\n\nThe term \"groundbreaking\", when used as an adjective, may mean being or making something that has never been done, seen, or made before; \"stylistically innovative works\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6084368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6084368", "title": "Hard disk drive failure", "text": "Hard disk drive failure\n\nA hard disk drive failure occurs when a hard disk drive malfunctions and the stored information cannot be accessed with a properly configured computer.\n\nA hard disk failure may occur in the course of normal operation, or due to an external factor such as exposure to fire or water or high magnetic fields, or suffering a sharp impact or environmental contamination, which can lead to a head crash.\n\nHard drives may also be rendered inoperable through data corruption, disruption or destruction of the hard drive's master boot record, or through malware deliberately destroying the disk's contents.\n\nSome hard disk drives simply fail because of worn out parts, others fail prematurely. Drive manufacturers typically specify a mean time between failures (MTBF) or an annualized failure rate (AFR) which are population statistics that can not predict the behavior of an individual unit. These are calculated by constantly running samples of the drive for a short period of time, analyzing the resultant wear and tear upon the physical components of the drive, and extrapolating to provide a reasonable estimate of its lifespan. Hard disk drive failures tend to follow the concept of the bathtub curve. Drives typically fail within a short time if there is a defect present from manufacturing. If a drive proves reliable for a period of a few months after installation, the drive has a significantly greater chance of remaining reliable. Therefore, even if a drive is subjected to several years of heavy daily use, it may not show any notable signs of wear unless closely inspected. On the other hand, a drive can fail at any time in many different situations.\n\nThe most notorious cause of drive failure is a head crash, where the internal read-and-write head of the device, usually just hovering above the surface, touches a platter, or scratches the magnetic data-storage surface. A head crash usually incurs severe data loss, and data recovery attempts may cause further damage if not done by a specialist with proper equipment. Drive platters are coated with an extremely thin layer of non-electrostatic lubricant, so that the read-and-write head will simply glance off the surface of the platter should a collision occur. However, this head hovers mere nanometers from the platter's surface which makes a collision an acknowledged risk. Another cause of failure is a faulty air filter. The air filters on today's drives equalize the atmospheric pressure and moisture between the drive enclosure and its outside environment. If the filter fails to capture a dust particle, the particle can land on the platter, causing a head crash if the head happens to sweep over it. After a head crash, particles from the damaged platter and head media can cause one or more bad sectors. These, in addition to platter damage, will quickly render a drive useless. A drive also includes controller electronics, which occasionally fail. In such cases, it may be possible to recover all data.\n\nThe phenomenon of disk failure is not limited only to drives, but also applies to other types of magnetic media. In the late 1990s, Iomega's 100-megabyte Zip disks used in Zip drives were affected by the click of death, called so because the drives endlessly clicked when accessed, indicating the impending failure. 3.5-inch floppy disks can also fall victim to disk failure. If either the drive or the media is dirty, users may experience the buzz of death when attempting to access the drive.\n\nFailure of a hard disk drive can be catastrophic or gradual. The former typically presents as a drive that can no longer be detected by CMOS setup, or that fails to pass BIOS POST so that the operating system never sees it. Gradual hard-drive failure can be harder to diagnose, because its symptoms, such as corrupted data and slowing down of the PC (caused by gradually failing areas of the hard drive requiring repeated read attempts before successful access), can be caused by many other computer issues, such as malware. A rising number of bad sectors can be a sign of a failing hard drive, but because the hard drive automatically adds them to its own growth defect table, they may not become evident to utilities such as ScanDisk unless the utility can catch them before the hard drive's defect management system does, or the backup sectors held in reserve by the internal hard-drive defect management system run out. A cyclical repetitive pattern of seek activity such as rapid or slower seek-to-end noises (click of death) can be indicative of hard drive problems.\n\nDuring normal operation, heads in HDDs fly above the data recorded on the disks. Modern HDDs prevent power interruptions or other malfunctions from landing its heads in the data zone by either physically moving (\"parking\") the heads to a special \"landing zone\" on the platters that is not used for data storage, or by physically locking the heads in a suspended (\"unloaded\") position raised off the platters. Some early PC HDDs did not park the heads automatically when power was prematurely disconnected and the heads would land on data. In some other early units the user would run a program to manually park the heads.\n\nA \"landing zone\" is an area of the platter usually near its inner diameter (ID), where no data is stored. This area is called the Contact Start/Stop (CSS) zone. Disks are designed such that either a spring or, more recently, rotational inertia in the platters is used to park the heads in the case of unexpected power loss. In this case, the spindle motor temporarily acts as a generator, providing power to the actuator.\n\nSpring tension from the head mounting constantly pushes the heads towards the platter. While the disk is spinning, the heads are supported by an air bearing and experience no physical contact or wear. In CSS drives the sliders carrying the head sensors (often also just called \"heads\") are designed to survive a number of landings and takeoffs from the media surface, though wear and tear on these microscopic components eventually takes its toll. Most manufacturers design the sliders to survive 50,000 contact cycles before the chance of damage on startup rises above 50%. However, the decay rate is not linear: when a disk is younger and has had fewer start-stop cycles, it has a better chance of surviving the next startup than an older, higher-mileage disk (as the head literally drags along the disk's surface until the air bearing is established). For example, the Seagate Barracuda 7200.10 series of desktop hard disk drives are rated to 50,000 start–stop cycles, in other words no failures attributed to the head–platter interface were seen before at least 50,000 start–stop cycles during testing.\n\nAround 1995 IBM pioneered a technology where a landing zone on the disk is made by a precision laser process (\"Laser Zone Texture\" = LZT) producing an array of smooth nanometer-scale \"bumps\" in a landing zone, thus vastly improving stiction and wear performance. This technology is still largely in use today, predominantly in desktop and enterprise (3.5-inch) drives. In general, CSS technology can be prone to increased stiction (the tendency for the heads to stick to the platter surface), e.g. as a consequence of increased humidity. Excessive stiction can cause physical damage to the platter and slider or spindle motor.\n\n\"Load/unload\" technology relies on the heads being lifted off the platters into a safe location, thus eliminating the risks of wear and stiction altogether. The first HDD RAMAC and most early disk drives used complex mechanisms to load and unload the heads. Modern HDDs use ramp loading, first introduced by Memorex in 1967, to load/unload onto plastic \"ramps\" near the outer disk edge.\n\nAddressing shock robustness, IBM also created a technology for their ThinkPad line of laptop computers called the Active Protection System. When a sudden, sharp movement is detected by the built-in accelerometer in the Thinkpad, internal hard disk heads automatically unload themselves to reduce the risk of any potential data loss or scratch defects. Apple later also utilized this technology in their PowerBook, iBook, MacBook Pro, and MacBook line, known as the Sudden Motion Sensor. Sony, HP with their HP 3D DriveGuard and Toshiba have released similar technology in their notebook computers.\n\nHard drives may fail in a number of ways. Failure may be immediate and total, progressive, or limited. Data may be totally destroyed, or partially or totally recoverable.\n\nEarlier drives had a tendency toward developing bad sectors with use and wear; these bad sectors could be \"mapped out\" so they were not used and did not affect operation of a drive, and this was considered normal unless many bad sectors developed in a short period of time. Some early drives even had a table attached to a drive's case on which bad sectors were to be listed as they appeared. Later drives map out bad sectors automatically, in a way invisible to the user; a drive with remapped sectors may continue to be used. Statistics and logs available through S.M.A.R.T (Self-Monitoring, Analysis, and Reporting Technology) provide information about the remapping.\n\nOther failures, which may be either progressive or limited, are usually considered to be a reason to replace a drive; the value of data potentially at risk usually far outweighs the cost saved by continuing to use a drive which may be failing. Repeated but recoverable read or write errors, unusual noises, excessive and unusual heating, and other abnormalities, are warning signs.\n\n\nMost major hard disk and motherboard vendors support S.M.A.R.T, which measures drive characteristics such as operating temperature, spin-up time, data error rates, etc. Certain trends and sudden changes in these parameters are thought to be associated with increased likelihood of drive failure and data loss. However, S.M.A.R.T. parameters alone may not be useful for predicting individual drive failures. While several S.M.A.R.T. parameters affect failure probability, a large fraction of failed drives do not produce predictive S.M.A.R.T. parameters. Unpredictable breakdown may occur at any time in normal use, with potential loss of all data. Recovery of some or even all data from a damaged drive is sometimes, but not always possible, and is normally costly.\n\nA 2007 study published by Google suggested very little correlation between failure rates and either high temperature or activity level. Indeed, the Google study indicated that \"one of our key findings has been the lack of a consistent pattern of higher failure rates for higher temperature drives or for those drives at higher utilization levels.\". Hard drives with S.M.A.R.T.-reported average temperatures below had higher failure rates than hard drives with the highest reported average temperature of , failure rates at least twice as high as the optimum S.M.A.R.T.-reported temperature range of to . The correlation between manufacturers, models and the failure rate was relatively strong. Statistics in this matter are kept highly secret by most entities; Google did not relate manufacturers' names with failure rates, though it has been revealed that Google uses Hitachi Deskstar drives in some of its servers.\n\nGoogle's 2007 study found, based on a large field sample of drives, that actual annualized failure rates (AFRs) for individual drives ranged from 1.7% for first year drives to over 8.6% for three-year-old drives. A similar 2007 study at CMU on enterprise drives showed that measured MTBF was 3–4 times lower than the manufacturer's specification, with an estimated 3% mean AFR over 1–5 years based on replacement logs for a large sample of drives, and that hard drive failures were highly correlated in time.\n\nA 2007 study of latent sector errors (as opposed to the above studies of complete disk failures) showed that 3.45% of 1.5 million disks developed latent sector errors over 32 months (3.15% of nearline disks and 1.46% of enterprise class disks developed at least one latent sector error within twelve months of their ship date), with the annual sector error rate increasing between the first and second years. Enterprise drives showed less sector errors than consumer drives. Background scrubbing was found to be effective in correcting these errors.\n\nSCSI, SAS, and FC drives are more expensive than consumer-grade SATA drives, and usually used in servers and disk arrays, where SATA drives were sold to the home computer and desktop and near-line storage market and were perceived to be less reliable. This distinction is now becoming blurred.\n\nThe mean time between failures (MTBF) of SATA drives is usually specified to be about 1.2 million hours (some drives such as Western Digital Raptor have rated 1.4 million hours MTBF), while SAS/FC drives are rated for upwards of 1.6 million hours. However, independent research indicates that MTBF is not a reliable estimate of a drive's longevity (service life). MTBF is conducted in laboratory environments in test chambers and is an important metric to determine the quality of a disk drive, but is designed to only measure the relatively constant failure rate over the service life of the drive (the middle of the \"bathtub curve\") before final wear-out phase. A more interpretable, but equivalent, metric to MTBF is annualized failure rate (AFR). AFR is the percentage of drive failures expected per year. Both AFR and MTBF tend to measure reliability only in the initial part of the life of a hard disk drive thereby understating the real probability of failure of a used drive.\n\nThe cloud storage company Backblaze produces an annual report into hard drive reliability. However the company states that it mainly uses commodity consumer drives, which are deployed in enterprise conditions, rather than in their representative conditions and for their intended use. Consumer drives are also not tested to work with enterprise RAID cards of the kind used in a datacenter, and may not respond in the time a RAID controller expects; such cards will be identified as having failed when they have not. The result of tests of this kind may be relevant or irrelevant to different users, since they accurately represent the performance of consumer drives in the enterprise or under extreme stress, but may not accurately represent their performance in normal or intended use.\n\n\nIn order to avoid the loss of data due to disk failure, common solutions include:\n\n\nData from a failed drive can sometimes be partially or totally recovered if the platters' magnetic coating is not totally destroyed. Specialised companies carry out data recovery, at significant cost, by opening the drives in a clean room and using appropriate equipment to read data from the platters directly. If the electronics have failed, it is sometimes possible to replace the electronics board, though often drives of nominally exactly the same model manufactured at different times have different circuit boards that are incompatible. Moreover, electronics boards of modern drives usually contain drive-specific \"adaptation data\" required for accessing their system areas, so the related componentry needs to be either reprogrammed (if possible) or unsoldered and transferred between two electronics boards.\n\nSometimes operation can be restored for long enough to recover data, perhaps requiring reconstruction techniques such as file carving. Risky techniques are justifiable if the drive is otherwise dead. If a drive is started up once it may continue to run for a shorter or longer time but never start again, so as much data as possible is recovered as soon as the drive starts. A 1990s drive that does not start due to stiction can sometimes be started by tapping it or rotating the body of the drive rapidly by hand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15988", "title": "January 8", "text": "January 8\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9603763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9603763", "title": "Lethbridge Dragon Boat Festival", "text": "Lethbridge Dragon Boat Festival\n\nLethbridge Dragon Boat Festival is a dragon boat festival held annually in Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada. The festival, held every July since 2002 at Henderson Park, attracts over 60 teams from British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Montana consisting of over 1600 participants. The three-day festival is the largest dragon boat festival in Alberta, and it includes not only the dragon boat races but entertainment, vendors, and beer gardens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2597726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2597726", "title": "Levee breach", "text": "Levee breach\n\nA levee breach or levee failure (the word dike or dyke can also be used instead of levee) is a situation where a levee fails or is intentionally , causing the previously contained water to flood the land behind the levee.\n\nMan-made levees can fail in a number of ways. The most frequent (and dangerous) form of levee failure is a \"breach\". A \"levee breach\" is when part of the levee actually breaks away, leaving a large opening for water to flood the land protected by the levee.\n\nA breach can be a sudden or gradual failure that is caused either by surface erosion or by a subsurface failure of the levee. Levee breaches are often accompanied by levee boils, or sand boils. The underseepage resurfaces on the landside, in the form of a volcano-like cone of sand. Boils signal a condition of incipient instability which may lead to erosion of the levee toe or foundation or result in sinking of the levee into the liquefied foundation below. Some engineers think that boils lead to a form of internal erosion called piping which undermines the levee, but others consider them a symptom of generalized instability of the foundation.\n\nSurface erosion of the surface of a levee is usually caused by the action of wind and water (waves but also normal flow). Erosion can be worsened by pre-existing or new damage to a levee. Areas with no surface protection are more prone to erosion. A levee grazed by certain types of animals, like sheep, can show trails used by the animals where grass does not grow.\n\nTrees in levees are a special risk. A tree can become unstable after the soil of the levee has become saturated with water. When the tree falls the root system will likely take a chunk of the saturated soil out of the levee. This shallow hole can quickly erode and result in a breach. If the tree falls in the water and floats away it can damage the levee further downstream. Floating trees near levees should be quickly removed by the agency responsible for the maintenance of the levee.\n\nOther forms of damage can be caused by ships or other (large) floating objects or from objects in the levee, like traffic signs or fences that are damaged or completely removed by wind or water. Barbed wire fences can collect large amounts of floating plant material, resulting in a large amount of drag from the water. Whole fences can be dragged away by the water.\n\nSometimes levees are said to fail when water \"overtops\" the crest of the levee. \"Levee overtopping\" can be caused when flood waters simply exceed the lowest crest of the levee system or if high winds begin to generate significant swells (a storm surge) in the ocean or river water to bring waves crashing over the levee. Overtopping can lead to significant landside erosion of the levee or even be the mechanism for complete breach. Often levees are armored or reinforced with rocks or concrete to prevent erosion and failure.\n\nAfter a levee breach a kolk lake can often be seen. This is a crater-like depression just behind the breach where soil and other material has been violently scoured out by the rushing water. After a breach, a kolk lake can sometimes remain after the water level recedes.\n\nIn some cases levees are breached intentionally. This can be done to protect other areas, to drain flooded areas, or to give back land to nature. In most cases an intentional breach is not without discussion since valuable land is given up.\n\nDuring the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 a levee was blown up with dynamite to prevent the flooding of New Orleans. Again during record-breaking flooding in 2011, the US Army Corps of Engineers blew up a section of a Mississippi River levee with dynamite to open the New Madrid Floodway. The floodway was used for farming and had about 200 residents at the time. The levee at Bird's Point was designed to be removed if necessary so that Mississippi water levels would be lowered, taking pressure off levees for miles upstream in more populated areas such as Cairo, Illinois, and New Madrid, Missouri.\n\nTaking land from the cycle of flooding by putting a dike around it prevents it from being raised by silt left behind after a flood. At the same time the drained soil consolidates and peat decomposes leading to land subsidence. In this way the difference between the water level on one side and land level on the other side of the dike grows. \n\nIn some areas reclaimed land is given back to nature by breaching and removing dikes to allow flooding to occur (again). This restores the natural environment in the area. This happened in the Glory River in Iraq.\n\nThe words \"levee\" and \"levee breach\" were brought heavily into the public consciousness after the levee failures in metro New Orleans on August 29, 2005 when Hurricane Katrina passed east of the city. Levees breached in over 50 different places submerging 80 percent of the city. Most levees failed due to water overtopping them but some failed when water passed underneath the levee foundations causing the levee wall to shift and resulting in catastrophic sudden breaching. The sudden breaching released water at a high velocity that moved houses off their foundations and tossed cars into trees. This happened in the Lower Ninth Ward when the Industrial Canal breached and also in the Lakeview neighborhood when the 17th Street Canal breached. At least 1,464 people perished. In New Orleans, the United States Army Corps of Engineers is the Federal agency responsible for levee design and construction as defined in the Flood Control Act of 1965 and subject to local participation requirements, some of which were later waived. Fault has been aimed at the Corps of Engineers, their local contractors, and local levee boards.\n\nThe St. Elizabeth's flood of 1421 was caused by a surge of seawater being forced upriver during a storm, overflowing the river dikes and submerging approximately of land in the Netherlands. Estimates of people having died range from 2,000 to 10,000. Parts of the submerged lands have still not been reclaimed resulting in the Biesbosch wetlands.\n\nDuring the North Sea flood of 1953, in the night of 31 January – 1 February 1953, many dikes in the provinces of Zeeland, Zuid-Holland and Noord-Brabant in the Netherlands were unable to withstand the combination of spring tide and a northwesterly storm. The resulting flood killed 1,835 people. A further 307 people were killed by dike breaches in the United Kingdom, in the counties of Lincolnshire, Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex. In the Netherlands this flood was a main reason for the construction of the Delta Works, probably the most innovative and extensive levee system in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43790186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43790186", "title": "NEVER (professional wrestling)", "text": "NEVER (professional wrestling)\n\nNEVER was a series of professional wrestling events held by New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) between August 2010 and November 2012. On July 12, 2010, NJPW officially announced the NEVER project, which was to highlight younger up-and-coming talent and outside wrestlers not signed to the promotion. It was explained that the name of the project was an acronym of the terms \"New Blood\", \"Evolution\", \"Valiantly\", \"Eternal\" and \"Radical\". For the events, NJPW recruited several freelancers as well as wrestlers signed to promotions such as DDT Pro-Wrestling and Kaientai Dojo. Some outsiders who became NEVER regulars included Daisuke Sasaki, Kaji Tomato, Madoka, Ryuichi Sekine and Shinobu. Kushida, who entered NEVER as a representative of the Smash promotion in February 2011, signed a NJPW contract the following month and returned to the project the following September, now representing NJPW. Three NJPW trainees; Hiromu Takahashi, Sho Tanaka and Yohei Komatsu, made their professional wrestling debuts at NEVER events. Takahashi, who debuted at \"NEVER.1\", was the only wrestler who wrestled on all thirteen NEVER events.\n\nOn October 5, 2012, NJPW announced that NEVER was going to get its own championship, the NEVER Openweight Championship. The title was originally scheduled to be defended exclusively at NEVER events, but this plan was quickly changed and since its foundation, the title has been defended on the undercards of NJPW events. NJPW has not held a single NEVER event since the tournament, which crowned the first NEVER Openweight Champion on November 19, 2012. A second NEVER title, the NEVER Openweight 6-Man Tag Team Championship, was announced on December 21, 2015, with the first champions crowned on January 4, 2016.\n\nOn July 18, 2015, NJPW announced \"Lion's Gate\", a project with a theme similar to NEVER, which held its first show on February 25, 2016.\n\nThe first NEVER event was held on August 24, 2010, in Tokyo at Shin-Kiba 1st Ring. The event featured five matches, which involved six outsiders; Taishi Takizawa from Kaientai Dojo, Kazuhiro Tamura from Style-E, Yusuke Kodama from Smash, Shinobu from 666 and freelancers Osamu Namiguchi and Madoka. The opening match of the event featured the professional wrestling debut of Hiromu Takahashi.\n\nThe second NEVER event was held on September 16, 2010, in Osaka at the Sekaikan theater. The event featured five matches, which involved five outsiders; Takuya Tomakomai from Dragon Gate, Daisuke Harada and Tadasuke from Osaka Pro Wrestling and freelancers Yohei Nakajima and Yosuke Takii.\n\nThe third NEVER event was held on October 8, 2010, in Tokyo at Shin-Kiba 1st Ring. The event featured six matches, which involved seven outsiders; Keisuke Ishii from DDT Pro-Wrestling, Keita Yano from Battlarts, Shinobu from 666, Kaji Tomato and Taishi Takizawa from Kaientai Dojo and freelancers Daisuke Sasaki and Madoka.\n\nThe fourth NEVER event was held on November 18, 2010, in Tokyo at Shin-Kiba 1st Ring. The event featured six matches, which involved six outsiders; Keisuke Ishii from DDT Pro-Wrestling, Jun Ogawauchi from Secret Base, Shinobu from 666 and freelancers Antonio Honda, Madoka and Daisuke Sasaki. The event featured Hiroyoshi Tenzan's return match, after being sidelined for fifteen months with a back injury.\n\nThe fifth NEVER event was held on February 24, 2011, in Tokyo at Shin-Kiba 1st Ring. The event featured seven matches, which involved six outsiders; Kazuki Hirata from DDT Pro-Wrestling, Shigehiro Irie from Team Dera, Shinobu from 666, Kushida from Smash and freelancers Daisuke Sasaki and Madoka. In the opening match, Hiromu Takahashi, six months after his debut match, picked up his first professional wrestling win over Hirata.\n\nThe sixth NEVER event, subtitled \"Road to the Super Jr. 2Days Tournament\", was held over two days on April 7 and 8, 2011, in Tokyo at Shin-Kiba 1st Ring. During the events, NJPW held two single-elimination tournaments, with both winners earning spots in the 2011 Best of the Super Juniors tournament. Both events featured eight matches and thirteen outsiders; Kazuki Hirata, Keisuke Ishii, Ken Ohka and Shinichiro Tominaga from DDT Pro-Wrestling / Union Pro Wrestling, Kaji Tomato, Marines Mask and Ryuichi Sekine from Kaientai Dojo, Shinobu from 666, Kazuhiro Tamura from Style-E and freelancers Daisuke Sasaki, Madoka, Osamu Namiguchi and Tsuyoshi Kikuchi.\n\nThe seventh NEVER event, subtitled \"Go to the Next Level\", was held on September 21, 2011, in Osaka at the Sekaikan theater. The event featured six matches and for the first time included no outsiders.\n\nThe eighth NEVER event, also subtitled \"Go to the Next Level\", was held on February 10, 2012, in Osaka at the Sekaikan theater. The event featured seven matches, which involved one outsider; freelancer Shoichi Uchida. The event featured King Fale's farewell match, before going on an overseas learning excursion.\n\n\"NEVER.9: Road to the Super Jr. 2Days Tournament 1st.\" was held on April 13, 2012, in Tokyo at Shin-Kiba 1st Ring. The event saw the start of a single-elimination tournament, where the winner would earn a spot in the 2012 Best of the Super Juniors tournament. The event featured six matches, which involved six outsiders; Hiro Tonai, Kaji Tomato and Ryuichi Sekine from Kaientai Dojo, Yusuke Kodama from Wrestling New Classic (WNC) and freelancers Black Tiger and Madoka.\n\n\"NEVER.9: Road to the Super Jr. 2Days Tournament Final\" was held on April 15, 2012, in Tokyo at Shin-Kiba 1st Ring. The event featured the semifinals and finals of a single-elimination tournament, where the winner would earn a spot in the 2012 Best of the Super Juniors tournament. The event featured six matches, which involved six outsiders; Hiro Tonai, Kaji Tomato and Ryuichi Sekine from Kaientai Dojo, Yusuke Kodama from Wrestling New Classic (WNC) and freelancers Black Tiger and Madoka. The winner of the tournament, Black Tiger, never entered the 2012 Best of the Super Juniors, as on May 25 NJPW publicly fired the character's performer Kazushige Nosawa, a day after he had been arrested under suspicion of smuggling cannabis.\n\n\"NEVER: Shodai NEVER Musabetsu Kyu Oza Kettei Tournament 1st Round\" (\"First Generation NEVER Openweight Championship Determination Tournament 1st Round\") was held on November 15, 2012, in Tokyo at Shibuya-Ax. The event featured the start of a tournament to determine the inaugural NEVER Openweight Champion. The event featured nine matches, which involved six outsiders; Hiro Tonai, Kengo Mashimo, Ryuichi Sekine, Shiori Asahi and Taishi Takizawa from Kaientai Dojo and freelancer Daisuke Sasaki. Technically, Masato Tanaka was an outsider, being signed to Pro Wrestling Zero1, but due to having been a regular for NJPW for several years, he was co-billed as a representative of the NJPW stable Chaos. The opening match of the event saw the professional wrestling debut of Sho Tanaka.\n\n\"NEVER: Shodai NEVER Musabetsu Kyu Oza Kettei Tournament Final\" (\"First Generation NEVER Openweight Championship Determination Tournament Final\") was held on November 19, 2012, in Tokyo at Shibuya-Ax. The event featured the second round, semifinals and finals of a tournament to determine the inaugural NEVER Openweight Champion. The event featured ten matches, involving the same wrestlers who had taken part in the \"1st Round\" event four days earlier. The opening match of the event saw the professional wrestling debut of Yohei Komatsu. In the main event of the show, Masato Tanaka defeated Karl Anderson to win the tournament and become the first NEVER Openweight Champion. NJPW has not held a single NEVER event since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30273585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30273585", "title": "Nedjeljni Jutarnji", "text": "Nedjeljni Jutarnji\n\nNedjeljni Jutarnji is the weekly Sunday edition of \"Jutarnji list\", one of the two prominent dailies in Croatia. \"Nedjeljni\" is principally concerned with life, culture, politics and style. Founded by Tomislav Wruss in 2003 in the long tradition of Croatian Sunday papers such as Nedjeljna Dalmacija, it was brasher and less polite than the daily edition of \"Jutarnji\".\n\n\"Nedjeljni\" typically publishes fewer political and more urban-tabloid and human interest stories than its daily counterpart. The approach is more populist and entertaining, yet it has also been a platform for serious debate and important crusading issues.\n\n\"Nedjeljni\" has undergone a visual re-design since June 2010. The number of pages has been expanded to about 90, in order to match the volume of Sunday papers in Britain or the U.S. Numerous columnists have been added, and now include the literary critic and essayist Igor Mandić, leading web entrepreneur Nenad Bakic, actress and screenwriter Jelena Veljača, editor-in-chief of Forbes Croatia, Viktor Vresnik and culinary expert Rene Bakalović.\n\n\"Nedjeljni\" also launched a weekly food supplement, \"Dobra Hrana\", with 10 pages of cooking tips and features on dining culture. The paid circulation figures have been increasing in recent months, and the title currently outsells the daily edition of \"Jutarnji\".\n\nIn September 2010, \"Nedjeljni\" launched a series of investigative features on the Croatian meat industry, exposing the systematic failure of inspections and border controls. The series drew sharp criticism from government officials and industry leaders, but \"Jutarnji\" continued publishing until the government opened a hotline and launched a series of investigation.\n\nIn October 2010, the paper published a shocking feature on the Croatian shadow economy, which by some estimates represents about 30% of the country's GDP. The feature was widely cited and brought about a change in the legal system in order to battle shadow economy.\n\nOn its March 2, 2011 cover, the paper published an exclusive story on the corruption in the European parliament involving the Slovenian, Romanian and Austrian representatives. \n\nAlso, on January 3, 2010, \"Nedjeljni\" published one of the first articles on Fimi-media, a company that was allegedly involved in a corruption scandal that led to the arrest of former Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader.\n\n"}
{"id": "1483272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1483272", "title": "Night of the Dead", "text": "Night of the Dead\n\nThe Night of the Dead is a whole night of horror films shown as part of the annual Leeds International Film Festival. Beginning in 2001, it has become a firm fan favourite, selling out well before the event. Since Night of the Dead V, this event has taken place at the Hyde Park Picture House in Leeds, England.\n\nAs well as the films there is plenty of banter between films between the \"organisers\" and the audience. There is the giving away of prizes either for doing, not doing or claiming to have done things that those running the event deem worthy. There is also often an appearance by somebody involved with the making of one of the films shown for a Q&A session.\n\nThis took place from midnight on 6 November 2004. The films shown were \"I'll See You In My Dreams\" (a short), \"\", \"El Ciclo\" (another short), \"Monster Man\", \"Una de Zombis\" and \"Black Sunday\". Night of the Dead IV was the last to take place at the Lounge Cinema.\n\nKicking off at midnight of 12 November 2005 with the short film \"The French Doors\", the event continued, alternating between long and short with \"Loft\", \"Jona/Tomberry\", \"Boy Eats Girl\" (starring Samantha Mumba), \"Something Red\", \"Zombie Honeymoon\", \"12 Hot Women\", and finally \"Gusha No Bindume\" (or \"Hellavator\").\n\nOn the 11th (technically 12th) day of November in 2006, at the stroke of midnight began the sixth annual Night of the Dead. This occasion began its series of alternating shorts and longs with \"Deadly Tantrum\", followed by \"Unrest\", \"Monsters\", \"Expiry Date\", \"Home Video\", \"Broken\", \"Repose en Paix\" and \"Wild Zero\".\n\nThe seventh Night of the Dead took place at the stroke of midnight Saturday 10 November 2007, finishing in the early hours of Sunday morning. The four main features at the event were \"Storm Warning\", \"End of the Line\", \"Fritt Vilt\" (\"Cold Prey\") and \"Zibahkhana\" (\"Hell's Ground\"). Events kicked off as usual with a horror short entitled \"Still Life\" (a film with a striking resemblance to the Doctor Who episode \"Blink\"), and the audience was treated to a short between each film as well. The last of the shorts, \"The Fifth\", features Sam Lloyd (Ted from Scrubs).\n\n"}
{"id": "31106524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31106524", "title": "Nikko Briteramos", "text": "Nikko Briteramos\n\nNikko Briteramos (born June 22, 1983 in Chicago, Illinois is a former Huron University basketball player convicted in 2002 for not informing his partner of his HIV status before having sex. He received national attention after he was the first person arrested under a South Dakota law requiring that persons inform prospective sexual partners that they are HIV positive. He became the central subject of wide-ranging ethical and philosophical debates regarding the unconstitutionality and illegitimacy of partner notification law.\n\nIn March 2002, he allegedly participated in a \"Post 9-11\" Red Cross\" blood drive. Several weeks later he was informed by Red Cross officials that the donation that he gave was flagged for HIV. \n\nBriteramos admitted having unprotected sex with the woman in his dorm on April 13. The woman later tested negative for HIV. He was arrested after Health Department officials discovered Briteramos and the woman in his dorm room. He was initially charged with three counts of intentional exposure to the AIDS virus. Two counts were dropped in exchange for his guilty plea.\n\nHe pled guilty to one count of \"Intentional Exposure to HIV\" and received a suspended sentence of five years, 120 days in jail, and 200 hours community service plus fines. According to the plea deal he was to register for school where later found out that he had lost his scholarship. He was eventually arrested for violating the terms of his probation for having spent five hours in the registration process and tested positive for marijuana. Briteramos spent 18 months in the South Dakota State Penitentiary.\n\nFollowing his release from prison, the 6 foot-9 inch Briteramos played in 2005-06 for Chicago State University. He was not drafted by the NBA in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "57284022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57284022", "title": "PitchWise Festival", "text": "PitchWise Festival\n\nThe PitchWise Festival is an annual four-day feminist music, art and activism festival held in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was established in 2005 by the CURE Foundation and has steadily grown into an international attraction that now includes major touring acts, art collectives, outdoor industry partners, film screenings, exhibitions, political theatre productions, prominent speakers, and more. The 2017 edition hosted over 70 female artists, collectives, musicians and activists from 36 different countries. \n\n"}
{"id": "3345936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3345936", "title": "Pukllay", "text": "Pukllay\n\nPukllay or phukllay (Quechua for to play, play / carnival, other spellings \"pucllay, pugllay, phujllay, pujhllay, pujllay, puqhllay\") is a traditional festival held in the central Andes. The word \"play\" refers to either the clouds or the blossoms \"playing\" in the winds at the end of the rainy season and thus harvesting time. The Bolivian \"Pukllay\" is connected to the Christian carnival and the celebration of a battle won over the Spaniards – hence the appropriation of the Spanish helmets and spurs one can still see in the ritual dance.\n\nIn March 2011, Bolivia nominated the \"Pukllay\" festival in Tarabuco (including the Ayarichi dance of the Yampara people) to UNESCO for World Heritage recognition as part of the cultural and intangible heritage of humanity.\n"}
{"id": "152286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152286", "title": "Reclaim the Streets", "text": "Reclaim the Streets\n\nReclaim the Streets (RTS) is a collective with a shared ideal of community ownership of public spaces. Participants characterise the collective as a resistance movement opposed to the dominance of corporate forces in globalisation, and to the car as the dominant mode of transport.\n\nReclaim the Streets often stage non-violent direct action street reclaiming events such as the 'invasion' of a major road, highway or freeway to stage a party. While this may obstruct the regular users of these spaces such as car drivers and public bus riders, the philosophy of RTS is that it is vehicle traffic, not pedestrians, who are causing the obstruction, and that by occupying the road they are in fact opening up public space. The events are usually spectacular and colourful, with sand pits for children to play in, free food and music, however they have been known to degenerate into riots and violence. A Temporary Autonomous Zone sometimes results. The style of the parties in many places has been influenced by the rave scene in the UK, with sound systems playing dance music.\n\nReclaim the Streets is also used for this type of political action, regardless of its actual relation to the RTS movement.\n\nThe earliest written source for the phenomenon \"reclaim the streets\" can be found in Marshall Berman's (1981) \"All That is Solid Melts into Air.\" In a chapter entitled \"Modernity in the Streets\" Berman writes:\n\"At the ragged edge of Baudelaire's imagination we glimpsed another potential modernism: revolutionary protest that transforms a multitude of urban solitudes into a people, and reclaims the city streets for human life. . . \"Thesis,\" a thesis asserted by urban people starting in 1789, all through the nineteenth century, and in the great revolutionary uprisings at the end of World War One: the streets belong to the people. \"Antithesis,\" and here is Le Corbusier's great contribution: no streets, no People.\" (pp. 166–167, emphasis added)\nStreets have many times been occupied with the intent of using them for other things than traffic. For example, a group of environmentalists occupied the streets of central Stockholm in autumn 1969. And in 1990–91 the same group arranged a tradition of 20 minutes \"culture crashes\" in busy street crossings. Like other occupations against car traffic before 1991, these events were not called Reclaim The Streets.\n\nReclaim The Streets was originally formed by Earth First! in Brixton, London, in Autumn 1991 and was born out of anti-road protest camps at places such as Claremont Road and Twyford Down. The idea of street reclaiming soon spread throughout the United Kingdom. The first actions can be seen as specifically anti-car and pro-alternative transport, but over the years the members of the core group changed its focus, realising that it was better to go to the root of the problem as they saw it, namely the capitalist system. \"Our streets are as full of capitalism as of cars and the pollution of capitalism is much more insidious.\" Nevertheless, the actions always followed the principle of non-violent direct action.\n\n\nThe idea of a Reclaim The Streets action was quickly taken up as a form of protest around the world. These \"street parties\" have been held in cities all over Europe, Australia, North America, and Africa. Initial instances confounded authorities and drivers alike, but over the years the protests have become institutionalised in many places, occurring much like other forms of legal protest in that the event is arranged with authorities beforehand, but not in all places like for example in Finland, where the first Street party outside the UK was arranged on 17 May 1997.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32465077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32465077", "title": "Refugees of the Syrian Civil War", "text": "Refugees of the Syrian Civil War\n\nRefugees of the Syrian Civil War or Syrian refugees are citizens and permanent residents of Syrian Arab Republic, who have fled from their country since the onset of the Syrian Civil War in 2011 and have sought asylum in other parts of the world.\n\nIn 2016, from an estimated pre-war population of 22 million, the United Nations (UN) identified 13.5 million Syrians requiring humanitarian assistance, of which more than 6 million are internally displaced within Syria, and around 5 million are refugees outside of Syria. The vast majority of the latter are hosted by countries neighboring Syria. Among countries of the Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan (3RP), a coordination platform including neighboring countries (with the exception of Israel) and Egypt, the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) counted 5,165,502 registered refugees, as of August 2017.\nTurkey is the largest host country of registered refugees with over 3.5 million Syrian refugees.\nThe UNHCR counted almost 1 million asylum applicants in Europe, as of August 2017.\n\nHumanitarian aid to internally displaced persons (IDPs) within Syria and Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries is planned largely through the UNHCR.\nBy 2016, various nations had made pledges to the UNHCR to permanently resettle 170,000 registered refugees.\n\nHuman rights in Syria under the rule of the Ba'ath Party (continuous since 1963) is considered to be in exceptionally poor conditions by international observers and has been deteriorating further since 2008.\nThe 2010-11 Arab Spring uprisings in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Bahrain and Yemen inspired major protests in Syria.\nThe Syrian Army intervened in March 2011, and the Syrian government crackdown gradually increased in violence, escalating to major military operations to suppress resistance. In April, hundreds died in clashes between the Syrian Army and opposition forces, which included armed protestors and defected soldiers.\nAs Syria descended into civil war, it quickly became divided into a complex patchwork of shifting alliances and territories between the Assad government, rebel groups, the majority-Kurdish SDF, and Salafi jihadist groups (including ISIL).\nUp to half a million people died in the war, including around a hundred thousand civilians.\n\nBy May 2011, thousands of people had fled from the war to neighbouring countries, with even larger numbers displaced within Syria itself.\nAs armies assaulted various locations and battled, entire villages were trying to escape, with thousands of refugees a day crossing borders.\nOther reasons for displacement in the region, often adding to the Syrian Civil War, target the refugees of the Iraqi Civil War, Kurdish refugees, and Palestinian refugees.\n\n\"The Syria crisis has become the biggest humanitarian emergency of our era, yet the world is failing to meet the needs of refugees and the countries hosting them\", the UN High Commissioner for Refugees António Guterres said in 2014. The UNHCR reported that the total number of refugees worldwide exceeds 50 million for the first time since World War II, largely due to the Syrian civil war.\n\nThe number of refugees that crossed the Turkish border reached 10,000–15,000 by mid 2011.\nMore than 5,000 returned to Syria between July and August, while most were moved to newly built camps that hosted\n7,600 refugees by November.\nBy the end of 2011, the number of refugees was estimated at 5,500–8,500 in Lebanon, with around 2,500 registered,\naround 1,500 registered in Jordan (with possibly thousands more unregistered), and thousands had found shelter in Libya.\n\nBy April 2012, in the early insurgency phase of the Syrian Civil War preceding 10 April ceasefire under the Kofi Annan peace plan,\nUN reported 200,000 or more Syrians internally displaced, 55,000 registered refugees and an estimated 20,000 not yet registered. 25,000 were registered in Turkey, 10,000 in Lebanon (mostly fleeing fighting in Homs, around 10,000 more were unregistered), 7,000 in Jordan (with 2,000 more unregistered estimated by the UNHCR, 20,000 according to JOHUD and 80,000 arrivals according to Jordanian officials), 800 in Iraq (400 more unregistered). Within Syria, there were 100,000 refugees from Iraq, 70,000 more already returned to Iraq.\n\nIn mid 2012, when the peace plan failed and the UN for the first time officially proclaimed Syria to be in a state of civil war, the number of registered refugees increased to more than 110,000.\nOver 2 days in July, 19,000 Syrians fled from Damascus into Lebanon, as violence inside the city escalated.\nThe first Syrian refugees migrated by sea to the European Union, small numbers found asylum in various countries such as Colombia.\nSome refugees were turned away from Jordan.\nBy the end of 2012, the UNHCR reported that the number of refugees jumped to well over 750,000 with 135,519 in Turkey; 54,000 in Iraqi Kurdistan and about 9,000 in the rest of Iraq; 150,000 in Lebanon 142,000 in Jordan and over 150,000 in Egypt\n\nAn estimated 1.5 million Syrians are refugees by the end of 2013.\nIn 2014, the deteriorating humanitarian situation in neighboring Iraq prompted an influx of Iraqi refugees into north-eastern Syria. By the end of August, the UN estimated 6.5 million people had been displaced within Syria, while more than 3 million had fled to countries such as Lebanon (1.1 million), Jordan (600,000) and Turkey (800,000).\n\nWith the beginning of 2015, the European Union struggled to cope with the migrant crisis, its countries entering negotiations and heated political debate over closing or reinforcing borders and quota systems for resettlement of refugees and migrants from different parts of the world. The image of a drowned Syrian toddler's body washed up on a Turkish beach becomes a seminal moment in the refugee crises and global response. National debates and media coverage about the Syrian refugee crises increase markedly, bringing considerable attention to the human costs of the Syrian Civil War, the responsibilities of host countries, pressures forcing refugees to migrate from their host countries, people smuggling, and the responsibilities of third countries to resettle refugees.\n\nIn the same year in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Egypt, the Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan (3RP) was launched to better coordinate humanitarian help between UNHCR, governments and NGOs.\nOn the other hand, the countries hosting the largest numbers of refugees also introduced a number of restrictions on new arrivals.\nLebanon stopped new registrations and allows refugees to enter the country only in extreme circumstances.\nJordan sealed its border with Syria during most of 2016, because of security concerns over ISIL control, according to government officials.\nHuman Rights Watch and Amnesty International criticized Jordanian authorities for not allowing refugees in and suspending aid to the informal encampents reported on the border.\nReports from the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, the National Coalition of Syrian Revolution and Opposition Forces, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International emerged in 2016 that Turkish border guards routinely shoot at Syrian refugees trying to reach Turkey, also, Turkey has forcibly returned thousands of Syrian refugees to war zone since mid-January 2016. The Turkish Foreign Ministry and President Erdoğan denied it.\n\nIn 2017, while the conflict in Syria and the reasons for displacement continue, few Syrians are able to leave it, due to more restrictive border management by neighboring countries.\nIn the first half of 2017, an estimated 11 million displacements were recorded and around 250,000 more refugees have been registered in neighboring countries, however it is hard to estimate how many of them crossed the border recently.\nIn the same period, an estimated 50,000 first time asylum applications have been made by Syrians in Europe, and around 100,000 new third country resettlements are planned for 2017.\n\nAs of mid-2017, an estimated 260,000 refugees returned to Syria since 2015 and more than 440,000 internally displaced persons returned to their homes, to search for family, check on property and, in some cases, due to improved security in parts of the country. The Syrian foreign minister called on the country's refugees to return home.\nNevertheless, the UNHCR stated that conditions in Syria are still unsafe and destitute, improvements in many areas are uncertain and many basic services are absent; access of aid convoys is also a challenge.\nLess than a half of the returnees have access to water or health services, due to extremely damaged infrastructure.\nAn estimated 10 per cent ended up as internally displaced persons once again.\n\nThe vast majority of refugees live below the poverty line\n(e.g. in 2016 in Lebanon most households were below $85 monthly per capita;\nin south east Turkey, 90% were below $100 and 70% below $50 monthly per capita).\nAverage monthly per capita expenditures were estimated in 2015-2016 at $104 in Lebanon and $55 in south-east Turkey.\nUnderemployment and low wages are widespread. Many rely on less sustainable sources, food vouchers, taking credits or borrowing money mostly from friends and relatives, less frequently from shops and rarely from landlords\n(e.g., in Lebanon 90% households were in debt, $850 in average;\nin south-east Turkey more than half are in debt, a few hundred dollars on average).\nBecause of this, refugees face difficulties accessing services and providing food, housing, healthcare and other basic needs for their families.\nMost refugees receive refugee-related information through SMS\n(e.g. 91% of registered households in Lebanon) and many use smartphones (in Lebanon, two thirds of households reported using Whatsapp).\n\nRefugees live primarily within hosting communities, in rented houses or informal settlements of tents and sub-standard dwellings.\nOnly about 10% live in formal camps.\nIn Lebanon, 85% pay rent, 71% live in residential building (regular apartments or in the micro-apartments designed for the building doorman/superintendent), 12% in non-residential structures (worksites, garages, shops), and 17% in informal tented settlements; a quarter of homes are overcrowded (less than 4.5 square meters per person).\nIn southern Turkey, 96% of the refugees living outside of camps pay rent, 62% live in rented apartments, 28% in unfinished buildings or garages, 1% in tents.\nRefugees are commonly charged a higher rate compared to local people, especially for sub-standard conditions\n(in 2016, in Lebanon, a monthly average ranging from $53 for keeping tents on land to $250 for a non-shared apartment or house;\nin south east Turkey, roughly $250 for dwellings meeting SPHERE standards, excluding water and electricity costs).\nIn Lebanon, many households face water shortages and a quarter of dwellings were in notably poor condition.\n\nFew refugees have residency permits in Lebanon, mainly due to their cost, creating difficulties at checkpoints when moving in search for jobs.\n\nEarning opportunities for refugees are predominantly informal, principally due to governments issuing few working permits. Barriers include quotas, fees, long and cumbersome paperwork, and discrimination by employers.\nIn Turkey, even after reforms opening the labor market in January 2016, the number of refugees in a single workplace cannot exceed 10%; employers pay work permit fees of 600 TL ($180) every year; while there is an exemption for seasonal work, it requires a separate application and still requires being registered for at least 6 months.\nBy late 2015 at most several thousand permits have been issued, refugees are thus overwhelmingly employed informally.\nJobs are often seasonal and employment rates differ widely between winter and summer.\nIn May 2016 in Lebanon, 36% working-age individuals (70% men, 7% women) reported working (for at least one day in the 30 days prior to a survey). Among them underemployment was widespread (working 14 days a month on average) and wages were low (on average $215 for working men and $115 for working women).\nThe structure of employment was 33% construction, 22% agriculture, 26% services, 6% retail/shops, 6% cleaning.\n\nSome Syrian refugees have resorted to prostitution as a means of survival, particularly among women and girls.\nThere is increasing concern about the exploitation of female refugees.\n\nThe UNHCR has a policy of helping refugees work and be productive, using their existing skills to meet their own needs and needs of the host country:\n\nMore than half the people fleeing the war moved only within Syria itself. While legal definitions of \"refugee\" do not apply to them, they are often referred to as such. The term internally displaced person (IDP) is used to distinguish them, with \"(forcibly) displaced person\" applying to both groups. UNHCR estimates that 7 million persons in Syria are internally displaced or in need of humanitarian assistance, as of 2017. Most live in houses, often badly damaged by the war.\n\nDue to security concerns, poor access to areas of need and unpredictability, humanitarian efforts were directed at emergency aid. The complexity of administrative procedures and limited capacity of NGOs permitted to operate in Syria are also cited as challenges to assistance.\n\nShelter aid for internally displaced persons is coordinated mainly by the Global Shelter Cluster (co-led by UNHCR, IFRC and the Syrian Ministry of Local Administration). No formal camps were set up, but some public buildings are rehabilitated as collective short-term shelters. For example, of the 90,000 people from east Aleppo registered by the UN, the vast majority live in houses, but 4,250 remain in the Jibreen collective shelter, as of January 2017. More people are targeted by programs of help in upgrading private unfinished buildings and of winterization and shelter kit distribution (blankets, light construction materials, tools, etc.). Only since recently the situation allows for implementing more durable solutions: full, long-term rehabilitation of damaged houses to basic living conditions, light infrastructure repair and legal help. In 2016, collective shelters were rehabilitated for 24,000 persons, kits were distributed to 26,000 people, 40,000 benefited from private building upgrades, 12,000 from long-term house repairs, and 5,000 from basic infrastructure repair.\n\nUNRWA estimates that 450,000 Palestinian refugees remain in Syria, of whom up to 280,000 are internally displaced, and an estimated 43,000 are trapped in hard-to-reach locations.\nSome continue to be displaced multiple times as a result of armed violence. Additionally, 120,000 are displaced to neighboring countries.\nUntil 2011, UNRWA provided services in 12 camps administered by Syrian authorities, including Homs and Yarmouk. Many sustained extensive damage and were forcibly displaced due to armed conflict. PA President Mahmoud Abbas contacted the UN Secretary-General about the situation, and the latter tried to broker a deal with Israel to allow Palestinian refugees living in Syria to resettle in the West Bank and Gaza. However, when Israel agreed, with the condition that they give up any future appeal to remain permanently in the country, Abbas rejected it and said \"it's better they die in Syria than give [this demand] up\". As of January 2017, UNRWA manages 9 shelters with about 2,600 Palestinian refugees and provides cash, food and non-food items to many more.\n\nThe Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan (3RP) is a coordination effort between Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, Iraq (countries neighboring Syria), Egypt, and UN agencies with NGOs including UNHCR and 240 partners.\nIt describes itself as \"a strategy document, coordination platform, advocacy tool, and funding appeal\".\nThe 3RP has been initiated at the break of 2015/2016, replacing the former inter-agency Regional Response Plan and coordinating response plans of each country,\nwith national leadership and ownership as a foundational principle, to use in-country systems effectively and avoid creating parallel ones.\nIt publishes strategic overviews and broad reports on the situation in constituent countries, describing in particular humanitarian efforts outside of Syria.\nThese are directed at food and assistance, safe water access, formal education for children, primary health care consultations, shelter assistance, and access to wage employment.\nAccording to the 3RP, funding is not keeping up with needs of the region: only 6 percent of the 2017 Plan has been funded in the first three months, while the 2016 Plan has been funded at 63 percent.\nThe 3RP also called for support including commitments to resettlement.\n\nIn the region, refugees predominantly live in urban, peri-urban and rural areas, while only about 10 percent live in camps.\nThe majority live below the poverty line.\nHosting countries face overburdened infrastructure, both public (e.g., water, health, roads) and private (e.g., housing), as well as severe disruption of exports through Syria.\n\n – Egypt, which does not border Syria, became a major destination for Syrian refugees since 2012 following the election of Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi. During Morsi's presidential term, they were an estimated between 70,000 and 100,000 Syrian refugees living in the country. Morsi's government tried to support Syrian refugees by offering residency permits, assistance on finding employment, allowing Syrian refugee children to register in state schools and access to other public services.\n\nFollowing the events relating to the 2013 Egyptian coup d'état, Syrian refugees were met with hostility by Egyptians, accusing them of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, since the group has close relations with the Syrian opposition and the Free Syrian Army.\n\nThe interim government has also tightened visa restrictions for Syrian citizens, requiring them to obtain a visa and a security clearance issuance before entering Egypt. Following these measures, at least 476 Syrians were denied entry or deported from Egypt. A number of flights carrying Syrians have been turned back from airports in Egypt to where their flight originated, including Damascus and Latakia, Syria. Following the post-coup unrest in Egypt, many Syrians have also made decisions to leave Egypt and settle in Europe instead.\n\nAs of March 2016, Egypt hosts 119,665 refugees, an increase of 1,153 refugees from April 2015.\n\nHowever, a study by Egyptian foreign affairs ministry has estimated that the country has hosted around 500,000 Syrian refugees since the start of the conflict. Egypt's assistant foreign minister Hisham Badr blamed the refugee influx over the EU-Turkey deal and Egypt hasn't received enough assistance from foreign governments to reduce the refugee influx, which he claims is currently costing the government around US$300 million a year. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi has also said that his country received around 500,000 Syrian refugees without \"media shows\". President al-Sisi said that his government doesn't abuse refugees, adding that many international organizations stopped receiving refugees, causing an increase in the numbers and that his government still receives refugees despite Egypt facing an economic crisis.\n\nIn May 2017, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the International Labour Organization (ILO) reported that Syrian refugees have contributed US$800 million to the Egyptian economy since the start of the civil war.\n\nOn November 2017, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi issued a decree approving a $15 million grant to support Syrian refugees in Egypt.\n\nThey constitute in total 30% of the Lebanese population (estimated at 5.9 million), or 25% for the Syrian refugees alone, making Lebanon the country with the highest number of refugees per inhabitant.\nThe Lebanese government chose not to establish camps for people fleeing the civil war in Lebanon, and thus they have settled throughout country. While most of them rent their accommodations in around 1,700 locations countrywide, nearly a fifth (18%) live in non-formal settlements—mostly concentrated in border governorates. Because the government of Lebanon has increasingly made it difficult for refugees from Syria to renew their residency permits, the number of households in which all members are legally in the country has dropped from 58% in 2014 to 29% in 2015. Refugee households living below the poverty line increased from 49% in 2014 to 70% in 2015. Families survive by borrowing money whenever they can. The percentage of refugee households with debt jumped from 70% in 2013 to 89% in 2015. Despite their struggling status, the Lebanese Forces Party, the Kataeb Party and the Free Patriotic Movement fear the country's sectarian-based political system is being undermined.\n\nTensions rose in Lebanon when the army raided refugee sites in Arsal in 2014. The Muslim Scholars Committee condemns what it calls human rights abuses saying 'the collective punishment of Syrian refugees cannot be justified,\" and calling for a 'transparent and impartial investigation of the violations, from the burning of camps to the torturing of detainees in Arsal.\n\nTurkey's response to the refugee crisis is different from most other countries. As a World Bank report noted: It is a non-camp and government financed approach, as opposed to directing refugees into camps that rely on humanitarian aid agencies for support.\n\nUnder Turkish law, Syrian refugees cannot apply for resettlement but only temporary protection status. Registering for temporary protection status gives access to state services such as health and education, as well as the right to apply for a work permit in certain geographic areas and professions. Over a third of urban refugees are not registered. Currently, 30% of Syrian refugee children have access to education, 4,000 businesses have been opened, and several Syrian refugee camps have grown into small towns with amenities from healthcare to barber shops. Over 13 million Syrians received aid from the Turkish Aid Agency (AFAD). Turkey has spent more than any other country on Syrian refugee aid, and has also been subject to criticism for opening refugee camps on the Syrian side of the border. Syriac Christians have been allowed to return to their historic homeland in Tur Abdin, Turkey. Up to 300,000 Syrian refugees living in Turkey could be given citizenship under a plan to keep wealthy and educated Syrians in the country.\nA study which was supported by the Istanbul University Scientific Research Projects unit and conducted by academics from a number of universities, revealed that the vast majority of Syrians in Turkey are employed in unregistered work for significantly lower wages compared to their Turkish counterparts.\n\nHuman rights groups have repeatedly denounced Turkish troops for shooting at civilians attempting to cross the border since early 2016. According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a total of 163 refugees, including 15 women and 31 children, were allegedly killed as of August 2017.\nPhysical abuse and public humiliating by soldiers has also been reported.\nSimilar accusations were made by Human Rights Watch, the National Coalition of Syrian Revolution and Opposition Forces, and Amnesty International, which also claims Turkey has forcibly returned thousands of Syrian refugees to war zone since January 2016.\nTurkish authorities deny the claims, but arrested several soldiers in August 2017 after a video surfaced of them abusing of a few young Syrian men trying to illegally cross the border into the country.\n\nOn 18 May 2016, lawmakers from the European Parliament's Subcommittee on Human Rights (DROI) have said that Turkey should not use Syrian refugees as a bribe for the process of visa liberalization for Turkish citizens inside the European Union.\n\nA factory producing fake lifejackets, made for migrants wanting to cross the Aegean Sea to Greece, is discovered in Turkey. Police seize more than 1,200 fake lifejackets in the factory at Izmir, and arrested four workers including two young Syrian girls. The raid came in the same week that the bodies of more than 30 people wash up on Turkish beaches, having drowned in their attempt to reach Greece. After the agreement of a multibillion-euro deal between the EU and Turkey, Turkish police slightly increase their operations against people involved in the wider smuggling business.\n\nOn 3 June 2016, a Turkish cleaner, Mahmutcan Ateş, working at the Nizip Camp in Gaziantep, Turkey, was sentenced to 108 years imprisonment for sexually abusing Syrian boys. He did not deny the charges, but said many employees and managers in the camps were involved. He also admitted that he paid the children around 2–5 Turkish lira ($0.70–$1.70) before assaulting them in the toilets, the victims were between ages 8 to 12.\nWith continuous refugees fleeing into their country, by 2018 Turkey has been reported in hosting 63.4% of all the refugees in the world. This left Turkey with 3,564,919 registered refugees in total. However compared  to the increase in refugees, benefits towards them weren't increased as much as only 712,218 were given residency permits only 56,024 work permits were given to the Syrians by 2017. Although Turkey tries to keep its promise in taking good care of the refugees, the dramatic wave in Syrian refugees as a whole affected and continues to affect the Turkish economy and society. Turkey continues to support the refugees by building around 28 shelters for the victims of human trafficking, however outside the camps, only 24% of Syrian children have access to education, work permits are still highly restricted, lack of systematic social benefits are becoming worse, and even border control has become more strict. Although 90% of the Syrian refugees in Turkey live outside the camps and inside the citites, and although Turkey holds the highest population rate in refugees as a whole, Turkey continues to struggle with the amount of responsibility they hold of the 3.5 million refugees.\n\nThe response of Saudi Arabia and other Muslim countries to the refugee crises came under intense media scrutiny. Claims are made that these countries are not accepting Syrian refugees, while other media outlets report that these countries provide visa extensions and family reunification for Syrians unable to return home. Saudi officials claim the Kingdom has given residency to between 100,000 and 2.5 million Syrians, though these numbers are widely disputed.\n\n – The government is offering several protection options including simplified naturalization by Armenian descent (19,500 persons acquired Armenian citizenship), accelerated asylum-procedures and facilitated short, mid and long-term residence permits. Ethnic Armenians in Syria have been fleeing to their historic Armenia homelands. The Cilician school was established to provide education specifically for Syrian-Armenian refugee children with support from the governments of Kuwait and Austria.\n\nAs of January 2017, there were 22,000 refugees, primarily ethnic Armenians in the country. In addition another 38 Armenian families (about 200 people) resettled in the de facto independent Nagorno-Karabakh Republic as of 2014. 50 Yazidi families (about 400 people) have also found refuge in Armenia. Armenia is home to a Yazidi community, currently numbering 35,000.\n\nIn August 2012, the first Syrian refugees migrated by sea to the European Union.\n\nUnder the Dublin Regulation, an asylum applicant in one EU country, must be returned to that country, should they attempt onward migration to another EU country. Hungary is overburdened in 2015 by asylum applications during the European Migrant Crises, to the point that on 23 June its refuses to allow further applicants to be returned by other EU countries. Germany and the Czech Republic suspend the Dublin Regulation for Syrians and start to process their asylum applications directly. On 21 September, EU home affairs and interior ministers approve a plan to accept and redistribute 120,000 asylum seekers (not only Syrians) across the EU. The Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia opposed the plan and Finland abstains. Poorer countries express concerns about the economic and social cost of absorbing large numbers of refugees. Wealthier countries embrace ethnic diversity and are able to offer more humanitarian assistance.\n\nLarge numbers of refugees cross into the EU and by mid-2015 there are 313,000 asylum applications across Europe. The largest numbers are recorded in Germany with over 89,000, and Sweden with over 62,000. More than 100,000 refugees cross into the EU in July 2015, and by September over 8,000 refugees crossed to Europe daily, with Syrians forming the largest group.\n\nBy 21 December 2015, an estimated 500,000 Syrian refugees have entered Europe, 80 percent arrived by sea, and most land in Greece.\n\nOn 19 February 2016, Austria imposes restrictions on the number of refugee entries. Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and Macedonia announced that just 580 refugees a day will be allowed through their borders. As a result, large numbers of Syrian refugees are stuck in Greece. There are fears that Greece won't be able to cope with the thousands stranded in the reception centres scattered across the mainland and the islands of Lesbos, Kos and Chios.\n\n – In 2015, there were at least 18,000 estimated Syrian refugees in Austria. In 2018, there were 48,103 Syrian nationals residing in Austria.\n\nIn August 2013, there is a sharp increase in refugees entering Bulgaria. Bulgarian refugee centers are at capacity and the government seeks emergency accommodations and asks the EU and Red Cross for aid.\n\nIn September, German customs seized packages of fake Syrian passports which police suspect are being sold to non-Syrians seeking asylum in Germany.\n\nOn 18 June 2016, UN chief Ban Ki-moon has praised Greece for showing \"remarkable solidarity and compassion\" towards refugees and he also called for international support.\n\nAfter the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt in July 2016, Greek authorities on a number of Aegean Islands have called for emergency measures to curtail a growing flow of refugees from Turkey, the number of migrants and refugees willing to make the journey across the Aegean has increased noticeably. At Athens officials voiced worries that Turkish monitors overseeing the deal in Greece had been abruptly pulled out after the failed coup with little sign of them being replaced. The Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises (SETE) warned about the prospect of another flare-up in the refugee/migrant crisis due to the Turkish political instability.\n\nIn September 2013, Sweden becomes the first EU country to grant permanent residency to all asylum seekers, and the right to family reunification, in light of worsening conditions in Syria. Roughly 8,000 Syrian refugees in Sweden are affected by the ruling. The decision is welcomed, but some warn that it may be a boon for people-smuggling operations.\n\nIn September 2013, Swedish migration authorities ruled that all asylum seekers will be granted permanent residency and the right to bring their families as well. Sweden is the first EU-country to make this offer. The number of Syrian nationals settling in Sweden under refugee status was 2,943 in 2012, 9,755 in 2013, and 18,827 in 2014, summing up to a total increase of 31,525 refugees during this period. Additionally, another 9,028 Syrians settled in Sweden on grounds of family reunification. Moreover, during this period, Sweden has received over 10,000 stateless persons, many of whom are refugees that previously resided in Syria.\n\nIn 2015, 51,338 Syrians applied for asylum in Sweden. After 2015 the number of Syrian asylum seekers decreased drastically, totaling 5,459 in 2016, 4,718 in 2017, and 1,040 as of May 2018.\n\nIn July 2013, Canada promised to resettle 1,300 refugees by 2015 and pledged $100 million in humanitarian aid. \"1,063 Syrian refugees are already here in Canada. The rest will travel in the coming weeks\" (Kevin Menard, spokesman for Immigration Minister Chris Alexander). and the government agreed to resettle 11,300 refugees by the end of 2017, and then 10,000 by September 2016. Before the 2015 general election, the Liberal Party of Canada promised to bring 25,000 refugees by the end of 2015. After the election, the newly formed Liberal government failed to meet its self-imposed deadline and it was moved to February 2016 and began further screening in the aftermath of the 2015 Paris attacks. Canadians have expressed considerable interest in receiving refugees and Canadian politicians and business leaders, including Prime Minister Justin Trudeau met the first two flights on 10 and 13 December 2015. At the end of 2015, Canada had arranged 96 flights to airlift refugees from their host countries, welcomed 35,000 refugees into 275 communities across the country, and agreed to resettle 35–50,000 refugees by the end of 2016. Resettlement arrangements for additional refugees and social integration of arriving refugees is ongoing. The cost over the subsequent six years was estimated between C$564 to C$678 million. Justin Trudeau stated that the most vulnerable would be accepted first, including families, children and members of the LGBT communities. Among the Syrian refugees accepted for resettlement are thousands of ethnic Armenians. On 27 February 2016 Canada met its goal of resettling 25,000 Syrian refugees. Canada continues to process applications and had accepted 40,081 refugees from November 2015 to January 2017. The government maintains at least two programmes for resettlement: refugees can be sponsored either under the Government-Assisted Refugee (GAR) programme, or under the Private Sponsorship of Refugees Program (PSR).\n\nIn late September 2016, the U.S surpassed its initial goal of resettling 10,000 Syrian refugees by resettling over 12,500 refugees throughout the U.S. Most of this initial grouping were admitted to the U.S in the previous four months leading up to this announcement. The Obama Administration also came out saying that it anticipated the resettling of an additional 110,000 refugees, according to an article from the \"Washington Post\". Syrians made up only a small fraction (2%) of total U.S. refugee intake in the fiscal year 2015. According to the United States Department of State Refugee Admissions Report dated December 2016, the US admitted 1,682 Syrian refugees in Fiscal Year 2015 (year ending Sept 2015), 12,587 in FY 2016 (15% of total worldwide refugee admissions into the US in FY 2016) and 3,566 Syrian refugees for the period October through December 2016.\n\nPresident Obama made a statement on 20 September 2016, asking countries at a United Nations Leader's Summit on Refugees to \"fulfill a moral obligation\" to help the current refugee crisis. He also rejected current President Trump's idea to build a wall on the border of Mexico and the United States. His statement to help the millions of refugees around the world was stressed by his action to convene the summit. He brought up Syria in particular in his speech mentioning the 4.8 million refugees from Syria was \"particularly unacceptable\". Obama stated in his summit speech that the refugee crisis is so bad that most refugees are leaving with hardly more than the clothes on their backs. He states that Syria is one of the top 3 most fled states during this crisis due to war with more than 4.8 million people fleeing a war-torn Syria.\n\nFollowing the November 2015 Paris attacks, thirty-one state governments (all but one led by a Republican governor) protested the admission of Syrian refugees to their states, with some seeking to block their admission. These governors' efforts to block Syrian refugees have been unsuccessful in court, and most but not all of the governors \"seem to have quietly dropped the matter.\"\n\nUnder his administration, the U.S. government has provided $5.9 billion to aid Syrian refugees, making the United States as the second-largest donor of Syrian refugees after Turkey.\n\nOn 27 January 2017, new US President Donald Trump announced that he had signed an executive order suspending any further resettlement of Syrian refugees to the United States indefinitely until further notice due to security concerns (excluding \"refugee claims made by individuals on the basis of religious-based persecution, provided that the religion of the individual is a minority religion in the individual's country of nationality\" which could include Christians, Shia Muslims and Yazidis in Syria). It will resume once an enhanced security screening procedure is implemented. Two days before signing the executive order, President Trump said that he was interested in establishing safe zones in Syrian territory, allowing refugees to live there while fleeing violence and stated that the European countries have \"made a tremendous mistake by admitting millions of refugees from Syria and other Middle Eastern trouble spots\" during the 2015 European migrant crisis. In July 2017, President Trump along with Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri agreed on US support to Lebanon to \"supporting the humanitarian needs of displaced Syrian citizens as close to their home country as possible.\" It was also announced in April of that same year that the US would send $167 million for Lebanese support.\n\nWhile some supports advocate that Donald Trump's new suspension of resettlement was done to help protect the safety of the United States, a large portion are skeptical of the long-term results of the suspension. According to opponents of the plan, the suspension can be described as \"ill-conceived, poorly implemented and ill-explained.\" This group of critics even includes two prominent Republicans, Michael Hayden and John McLaughlin. The critics argue that, since 11 September 2001, there have been no terrorist attacks in the U.S. that have been caused by any of the people banned by the order. In addition, they say that the suspension could compromise U.S. troops fighting overseas and that it provides propaganda for terrorist organizations like ISIS, as it allows them to proclaim that the U.S. has anti-Islam tendencies. The U.S. 9th Circuit Cout of Appeals has said in \"Washington v. Trump\", that the travel ban is not constitutional, but Trump has stated he will continue to try and make it a reality. On 4 December, the United States Supreme Court ruled in favor of supporting the Trump Administrations third installment of the travel ban. This decision will allow full enforcement of the ban to continue after US courts blocked the first two measures of the controversial regulation of travelers. The ban will allow the Trump administration to heavily regulate migration from countries such as Chad, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, Venezuela, Yemen and Syria. This comes after President Trump's loss in October from his second ban being blocked by federal judges in Maryland and Hawaii. Active cases against the ban are currently in the lower courts and could dictate if President Trump's third attempt at his travel ban could still be enforced or deemed unconstitutional like his original two efforts. Advocates against the ban include the American Civil Liberties Union which represent several groups challenging the ban and will continue to do so with American Civil Liberties Union's director Omar Jadwat saying \"President Trump's anti-Muslim prejudice is no secret.\" \n\nIn the 2016 Fiscal Year, the US dramatically increased the number of refugees admitted from Syria, totaling 12,587 refugees from the war-torn country. Ninety-nine percent of these refugees were Muslims (with few Shia Muslims admitted) and approximately one percent were Christian according to the Pew Research Center analysis of State Department Refugee Processing Center data. The religious breakdown of Syria's 17.2 million people is approximately 74% Sunni Islam, 13% Alawi, Ismaili and Shia Islam, 10% Christian and 3% Druze.\n\nThe state of religious persecution in the country is described by the State Department, \"In Syria, the Assad regime increased its targeting and surveillance of members of a variety of faith groups it deemed a \"threat,\" especially members of the country's Sunni majority. This occurred concurrently with the escalation of violent extremist activity targeted against religious minorities, including Christians, Druze, Alawites, and others as the current civil war continues. Large scale internal and external displacement of all sectors of the population is ongoing\" \n\nIn 2017, the US accepted 3,024 Syrian refugees, but only accepted 11 in the first quarter of 2018 \n\nThe topic of American's involvement in alleviating the Syrian refugee crisis continues to be a highly contentious issue among legislators, stakeholders, and activists. As instability in the region continues to rise, and the number of people seeking refuge continues to increase, the topic of whether or not to admit Syrian refugees into the United States continues to have a pervasive hold on American affairs, both foreign and domestic.\n\nThe issue of whether or not to admit Syrian refugees into the US has long been classified as a partisan issue, and the poll results affirm this position. As of 2016, 56% of Democrats support admitting Syrian refugees into the US, whereas 18% of Republicans are supportive, and 32% of Independents supportive of admitting Syrian refugees.\n\nSince the Syrian Refugee Crisis, the United States citizens have been formulating opinions on how to deal with the refugee crisis. In a CNN/ORC poll conducted in November 2015 when responding to the question \"Do you favor or oppose allowing refugees from Syria to seek asylum in the United States? ... Do you favor/oppose that strongly or just somewhat?\" 16% of people were strongly in favor, 22% somewhat in favor, 18% somewhat opposed, 43% strongly opposed, and 1% were unsure. This poll indicates that towards the beginning of the Refugee Crisis people were more so in opposition of Syrian refugees taking asylum in the United States. This poll was conducted again in 2017, January 31 through February 2, responding to the same question. In this poll, 25% of people were strongly in favor, 29% somewhat in favor, 18% somewhat opposed, 27% strongly opposed, and 2% were unsure with a margin of error of plus or minus 3. This poll indicates that Americans are pretty split on the issue of letting Syrian refugees into the United States in 2017 and that more people changed their opinions from 2015 to be more in favor of letting in Syrian refugees.\n\nIn Duke University Law School's Academic Journal, Suman Momin wrote an article entitled \"A Human Rights Based Approach to Refugees: A Look at the Syrian Refugee Crisis and Responses from Germany and the United States\". Momin lays out the most common moral and intrinsic arguments that affect citizens' opinions on refugee issues such as the Syrian Refugee Crisis. Momin introduces the \"Good Samaritan\" argument, the protection argument, and the political responsibility argument. The Good Samaritan argument states that people are in favor of helping non-citizens who are refugees as long as they believe that by helping, their own country will not be sacrificing anything. The protection argument stems from the idea that humans care about the rights and lives of others. This argument means that people pay attention to emotional debates that use photos of refugees or play at emotional connections, making people want to protect or save refugees. Finally, the political responsibility argument states that people are more willing to help when they think providing aid or letting in refugees with advance their own country politically. Where Americans stand on these moral rationales is what influences their opinion of foreign policy issues towards Syrian refugees.\n\nIn a Quinnipiac University Poll from February 16 through February 21, 2016, responding to the question \"Do you support or oppose accepting Syrian refugees into the U.S.?\", 74% of Democrats and 43% of Independents were in support of Syrian refugees coming to the US while only 13% of Republicans were in support. 82% of Republicans were opposed to Syrian refugees coming to the US, 51% of Independents and 22% of Democrats. 4% to 5% of people in each party had no answer. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.9. This poll indicates that Democrats are largely in favor of Syrian refugees entering the US while Republicans are largely opposed and considering the margin of error, Independents are completely split on the issue. In another poll taken by Gallup in January 30 and 31st of 2017 Gallup asked people \"Thinking now about some of the specific actions Donald Trump has taken since he has been in office, would you say you approve or disapprove of indefinitely suspending the United States' Syrian refugee program\" 32% of people approved Trumps actions suspending the Syrian refugee program 62% of people disapproved and 6% of people were unsure. There was a margin of error of plus or minus 4 in this poll. These public opinion polls show how American opinions change and how they would respond to questions concerning Syrian refugees.\n\n – Argentina decided in September 2013 to offer refuge to thousands of displaced Syrians. As of August 2013, more than three hundred refugee families have already arrived in Argentina. In 2016, as a result of the intensifying conflict in Syria, Argentina offered to accept 3,000 refugees.\n\n – In October 2015, Australia announced that it would accept 12,000 Syrian refugees. By February 2016, Australia had settled 26 refugees. By September 2016, 3,532 people had been resettled, with a further 3,146 visas issued. In addition, another 6,293 people were undergoing health, character and security checks after undergoing interviews.\n\nFinancial aid from government, non-government, and private donors to support Syrian refugees is largely channeled through established aid organizations, and national government agencies. These organizations and agencies deliver aid directly to refugees in the form of food, education, housing, clothing and medical care, along with migration and resettlement services. Complete figures for aid delivery since 2011 are not available. The table below shows cumulative known aid delivered by the largest aid organizations, between April 2011 and December 2015\n\n[a]. Data as of February 2016, unless otherwise noted; includes estimated cross-border arrivals, UNHCR registered refugees, asylum applicants, worker visa overstays and resettled refugees. Does not include foreign citizens leaving Syria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40434786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40434786", "title": "Semi-Permanent", "text": "Semi-Permanent\n\nSemi Permanent is a designer's event hosted by the brand-name \"Kinky\". The first event was hosted in Sydney, Australia in 2003. They have hosted events throughout Australia and New Zealand, as well as international events in the United States, United Kingdom and China. They arrange new events throughout the world each year.\n\nSome of the executive attendants of the event have been Banksy, Industrial Light & Magic, Ed Templeton, Wieden+Kennedy, Shepard Fairey, Jeffrey Deitch, and Paul Pope.\n\nIn 2013 Semi Permanent was part of the Vivid Ideas calendar. They had presentations from Fancesco Zizola, Brian Roettinger, Numskull,& many more.\n\nThe Semi Permanent office is located in Sydney, Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29332144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29332144", "title": "Sigillaria (ancient Rome)", "text": "Sigillaria (ancient Rome)\n\nIn ancient Roman culture, sigillaria were pottery or wax figurines given as traditional gifts during the Saturnalia. Sigillaria as a proper noun was also the name for the last day of the Saturnalia, December 23, and for a place where \"sigillaria\" were sold. A sigillarius was a person who made and sold \"sigillaria\", perhaps as an offshoot of pottery manufacture.\n\nIn the dialogue of Macrobius's \"Saturnalia\", the interlocutor Praetextatus says that \"sigillaria\" were substitutes for the sacrificial victims of the primitive religious rituals. Interpreted as such, they raise questions about human sacrifice among the earliest Romans (see also Argei and oscilla). The speaker Evangelus, however, counters that the figures are nothing more than toys to amuse children.\n\nFor the four-day fair, vendors of the figurines and other gifts set up temporary stalls in the Campus Martius, and later in the portico of the Baths of Trajan. Juvenal says the vendor stalls blocked the paintings of Jason and the Argonauts in the Porticus Agrippiana.\n"}
{"id": "40302096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40302096", "title": "Sjef van Oekel", "text": "Sjef van Oekel\n\nSjef van Oekel was a popular TV comedy character created by Dutch artist Wim T. Schippers and played by Dutch comedian, singer and actor Dolf Brouwers (1912–1997). Van Oekel started as a side character in \"De Fred Hachéshow\" in 1972, but became such a cult figure that he gained his own television show, \"Van Oekel's Discohoek\", songs and even a comic strip, all written by Schippers.\n\nWim T. Schippers created Sjef van Oekel in 1972 as a Belgian french fries salesman from the village Reet. Schippers had never visited Reet, but had seen the name on a company manufacturing car accessories and enjoyed the double entendre of the name (\"Reet\" means \"crack\" or \"buttcrack\" in Dutch). In line with his character's origin Van Oekel originally used a Flemish accent, but quickly dropped this in favor for his own Dutch accent.\n\nVan Oekel is typically dressed in a fine black tuxedo and always talks and behaves in a refined manner, complete with archaisms. However something always went wrong during his presentations, either on the set or he himself tripped or went nauseous. Situations like these always lead to his well-known catch phrase: \"Ik word niet goed!\" (\"I'm starting to feel not well!\"). Whenever Van Oekel said this he usually used a handkerchief to clean off the sweat on his forehead. In one controversial episode he threw up in the bicycle bag of his sidekick Evert van de Pik (played by Jaap Bar), which outraged Dutch journalist Henk van der Meyden so much that he started an unsuccessful campaign to get the program banned. Other well-known catch phrases of Van Oekel were \"Als het ware...\" (\"As a matter...\") and \"Pardon...reeds\" (\"Pardon... already\").\n\nThe character made his debut in 1972, in \"De Fred Hachéshow\", a controversial television show created by Wim T. Schippers. He later returned in two later Schippers shows, \"Barend is weer bezig\" (1972–1973) and \"Van Oekel's Discohoek\" (1974).\n\nThe van Oekel character was ancillary in \"De Fred Hachéshow\" and \"Barend is weer bezig\", both of which had Barend Servet as the lead, but central in \"Van Oekel's Discohoek\", where he played the host of a music show on television that parodied popular music programs of the era.\n\nVan Oekel quickly became a cult figure with viewers. Brouwers recorded many Schippers-penned and other songs, most of which comic and dramatic. With Manke Nelis he recorded \"Vis wordt duur betaald\" (#46 in the Dutch charts in 1988), but his best known song is probably \"Vette jus\" (\"[Sauerkraut with] greasy gravy\"), a dish still associated with him in a song that is little more than a list of Dutch dishes. The song was first performed on the 1973 Christmas special for \"Barend is weer bezig\"; it was written by Schippers, Gied Jaspars, and Clous van Mechelen.\n\nIn 1976 Wim T. Schippers and Theo van den Boogaard drew a celebrity comic strip series based on the character. Many stories and gags feature Van Oekel embarrassing other people or meeting rather eccentric and exhibitionistic people himself. Sjef van Oekel quickly became notorious for featuring very risqué subject matter, including religion, pornography, pedophilia, prostitution, vulgar language, and so on. The stories were published in \"De Nieuwe Revu\" and sold well enough to be translated in French (\"Léon Van Oukel\", later \"Léon La Terreur\"), German (\"Julius Patzenhofer\", later \"Leo, der Terrorist\"), Danish and Spanish.\n\nVan Oekel made a few media appearances in the late 1970s and early 1980s, but by 1984 this came to a halt too. Brouwers felt increasingly exploited by Schippers, especially regarding the comic strip. In 1989 he dragged Schippers and Van den Boogaard to court because the comic strip frequently portrayed him in vulgar situations without him earning a penny from it. The judge ruled in favor of Brouwers and decided that the series could continue, but the character was no longer allowed to be portrayed in \"obscene or pornographic situations\". A financial settlement was also agreed on.\n\nWhether van Oekel was just used or also abused by Schippers and others was the topic of a 2004 theater production. According to Hein Janssen, writing in \"de Volkskrant\", it is certainly true that Brouwers jumped at the opportunity to become a celebrity, but the extent to which Schippers and the other writers and directors pushed Brouwers (he balked, for instance, at having to simulate sex with an inflatable doll) is questionable.\n"}
{"id": "55847780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55847780", "title": "Taiwanese local elections, 2018", "text": "Taiwanese local elections, 2018\n\nRepublic of China local elections of 2018 were held on 24 November 2018. Local elections are held across the country, with elections to 22 local authorities.\n\nThis local election is the first test for the incumbent President Tsai Ing-wen since assuming office in May 2016. The results may affect the next legislative and presidential election in January 2020. The Central Election Commission opened election registration to candidates on 27 August 2018.\n\nThe Democratic Progressive Party has won the popular vote against the Kuomintang in all of the last three elections.\n\nThis trend has continued in the 2016 elections, where the Democratic Progressive Party won a majority in the Legislative Yuan with 68 seats and the presidency.\n\nA multi-question referendum was held 24 November 2018 alongside local elections. The referendum as the first since the December 2017 reform to the Referendum Act which reduced the barrier to submitting questions to the ballot; under the new system, signatures from 1.5% of the electorate (around 280,000 people) are required to successfully put a question on the ballot. The referendum needed to have at least 25% of registered voters' support, down from at least 50% registered voters in 2005.\n\nThe ten questions which appeared on the ballot are (with original Chinese language in parentheses):\n\n\n\n\n\nTicks represents nominated candidate, bold with tick represent incumbent running for re-election:\n\n<br>\n\nThe Taiwan president Tsai Ing-wen has announced resignation as the party head for Democratic Progressive Party; Premier William Lai has announced resignation on Facebook, but reserved ; DPP secretary general Hung Yao-fu and Secretary-General to the President Chen Chu has also announced their resignations. Following the elections, the Taiwanese foreign minister claimed that China had meddled in the elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "10525891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10525891", "title": "Team Racing Auto Circuit", "text": "Team Racing Auto Circuit\n\nTeam Racing Auto Circuit (TRAC) was a proposed American stock car automobile racing organization founded by Hank Durschlag and Charles Jeter that was scheduled to begin operations in 2004. TRAC was proposed by a group called Team Sports and Entertainment Inc., whose shareholders included Cale Yarborough, a three-time winner of the NASCAR Winston Cup Series season title, television executive Robert Wussler; and former college football coach Danny Ford. Among the series' board members includes former Cup team owner Michael Kranefuss.\n\nBill Miller was named chief executive officer of Team Sports Entertainment Inc. and its subsidiary, the Charlotte-based Team Racing Auto Circuit. Miller is the chairman of Miller Industries Inc., a provider of vehicle towing and recovery equipment and services.\n\nThe concept of TRAC was to put teams of drivers, particularly 8–12 two-driver teams, in identically prepared cars that were said to be similar to the muscle cars produced by Detroit. Some of the cars that were scheduled to compete included the Chevrolet Corvette, the Dodge Viper, and the Ford Mustang. All entries were to be equipped with Riley & Scott-designed chassis and fuel-injected V8 engines supplied and sealed (to prevent tampering) by a designated vendor. The race tracks planned were primarily ovals with capacities of at least 50,000 people.\n\nTeams, representing various tracks throughout the country, would accumulate points in each race for each driver, presumably based on the order of finish. The plan called for regular season races, playoffs, and a championship.\n\nTRAC had a contract from ESPN to televise the races. Raycom Media handled marketing and sold advertising, and Yarborough was the league's spokesman.\n\nThe series held a test at Atlanta Motor Speedway in April 2002 with Andy Hillenburg and Tony Ave driving the cars. Four months later, at Lowe's Motor Speedway, Ave and Boris Said tested the cars.\n\nTRAC was unable to sell sponsorships for any of the proposed teams, prompting the series' debut to be postponed to 2004, but the league ultimately folded without conducting a single race. The end of TRAC was officially announced on August 26, 2003.\n\nIn 2004, Team Sports and Entertainment was sued by four shareholders for \"breach of contract, wrongful conversion of company monies, mismanagement, breach of fiduciary duty and fraud.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19851185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19851185", "title": "The Abbott and Costello Cartoon Show", "text": "The Abbott and Costello Cartoon Show\n\nThe Abbott and Costello Cartoon Show is an American half-hour animated series of the famous comedy duo that aired in syndication from September 9, 1967 to June 1, 1968. Each of the 39 individual episodes consisted of four five-minute cartoons. The cartoons were created jointly by Hanna-Barbera, RKO General and Jomar Productions between 1965 and 1967. The series was syndicated by Gold Key Entertainment and King World Productions, with the rights now owned by Warner Bros. Television Distribution.\n\nThe primary feature of this cartoon series was the fact that Bud Abbott supplied the voice for his own character. Stan Irwin provided the voice of Lou Costello, who had died in 1959. The rest of the voice cast was composed of Hanna-Barbera regulars. The Canadian cartoonist, Lynn Johnston, who is famous for her comic strip, \"For Better or For Worse\", was an uncredited cel colorist.\n\n\"Abbott and Costello\" was among the animated programs of the 1960s that were based on the decade's nostalgia craze which animated other comedy teams of the past such as \"Laurel and Hardy\" and \"The New Three Stooges\". The show created work for the ill and impoverished Bud Abbott, who provided the voice of his animated character. Lou Costello had died in 1959, and his voice was supplied by nightclub manager Stan Irwin, who was a close friend of the duo.\n\n\nAdditional voices: Mel Blanc, Don Messick, Hal Smith, John Stephenson, Janet Waldo\n\nA comic book based on the TV show was produced by Charlton Comics. Starting in February 1968, it ran for 22 issues, ending in August 1971.\n\nHal Erickson, author of \"Television Cartoon Shows, An Illustrated Encyclopedia\" gave the program a negative review, stating that \"Abbott and Costello\" episodes were difficult to tell apart. Erickson stated that \"virtually every one them features the tubby Costello being pursued by some bugeyed monster or giant sized garden pest\" and that \"None of the classic verbal exchanges which brought the real Abbott and Costello to fame in the first place are evident.\"\n\nAn episode of the show was released in May 2013 as part of \"The Best of Warner Bros.: Hanna Barbera 25 Cartoon Collection\" DVD set.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31074603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31074603", "title": "Théâtre de Paris", "text": "Théâtre de Paris\n\nThe Théâtre de Paris is a theatre located at 15, rue Blanche in the 9th arrondissement of Paris. It includes a second smaller venue, the Petit Théâtre de Paris.\n\nThe first theatre on the site was built by the Duke of Richelieu in 1730. Baron Ogny bought it in 1779 and renamed it Folie-Richelieu. Then during the First Empire it was directed by Fortunée Hamelin, a celebrated member of the \"Merveilleuses\" (\"marvelous women\") of the Directoire era.\n\nIn 1811, the Folie-Richelieu was transformed into a park, then demolished completely in 1851 in the redevelopment under Baron Haussmann. It became the site of the church of Sainte-Trinité de Paris with part of the site becoming a roller skating rink. In 1880, using plans by the architects Aimé Sauffroy and Ferdinand Grémailly, part of the rink became the Palace Théâtre and, after a further restoration in 1891 by Édouard Niermans, the Casino de Paris. After that, the rest of the rink, near the present rue Blanche, was demolished to make way for the Nouveau-Théâtre. \n\nThe first director of the Nouveau-Théâtre, actor and stage director Lugné-Poe, an associate of André Antoine, introduced the Norwegian Henrik Ibsen and the Swedish August Strindberg to Parisian audiences, before leaving to found the Théâtre de l'Œuvre in 1893.\n\nIn 1906, the actress Gabrielle Réjane bought the theater, renovated it and gave it a new name, the Théâtre Réjane. She produced among other works the French premiere of \"L'oiseau bleu\" by Maurice Maeterlinck in 1911 and successfully played her signature role of \"Madame Sans-Gêne\" by Victorien Sardou at the theatre.\n\nThe producer Léon Volterra bought the hall in 1918, and on 12 August 1919, he inaugurated the Théâtre de Paris, Réjane having stipulated in the sales contract that the theater could not retain her name. Volterra ran the theatre until 1948, when it was taken over by Marcel Karsenty and the comedian Pierre Dux. The actress and director Elvira Popescu took over in 1955 along with Hubert de Mallet, managing it for ten years, before she left to the Théâtre Marigny.\n\nUnder Alain de Leseleuc (1965–1975) and Robert Hossein (1975–1990) the theatre specialized in musical works, particularly Offenbach operettas and opéras-bouffes, such as \"La Périchole\" directed by Maurice Lehmann, \"La belle Hélène\" directed by Jérôme Savary, and \"Le pont des soupirs\" directed by Jean-Michel Ribes. It also produced musicals like \"Starmania\" and \"Cats\".\n\nSince January 2002, Stéphane Hillel has been artistic director of both theatres.\n\nElvira Popescu created a second venue with 300 seats, converted from costume workshops, which she first called the Théâtre Moderne before renaming it the Petit Théâtre de Paris. This second theatre is still functioning.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31745", "title": "Udo of Aachen", "text": "Udo of Aachen\n\nUdo of Aachen (c.1200–1270) is a fictional monk, a creation of British technical writer Ray Girvan, who introduced him in an April Fool's hoax article in 1999. According to the article, Udo was an illustrator and theologian who discovered the Mandelbrot set some 700 years before Benoît Mandelbrot.\n\nAdditional details of the hoax include the rediscovery of Udo's works by the also-fictional Bob Schipke, a Harvard mathematician, who supposedly saw a picture of the Mandelbrot set in an illumination for a 13th-century carol. Girvan also attributed Udo as a mystic and poet whose poetry was set to music by Carl Orff with the haunting \"O Fortuna\" in Carmina Burana.\n\nThe poetry of \"O Fortuna\" was actually the work of itinerant goliards, found in the German Benedictine monastery of Benediktbeuern Abbey.\n\nThe hoax was lent an air of credibility because often medieval monks did discover scientific and mathematical theories, only to have them hidden or shelved due to persecution or simply ignored because publication prior to the invention of the printing press was difficult at best. Mr. Girvan adds to this suggestion by associating Udo with several other more legitimate discoveries where an author was considered ahead of his time in terms of a scientific theory of some sort that is now established as a mainstream theory but was considered fringe science at the time.\n\nAnother aspect of the deception was that it was very common for pre-20th century mathematicians to spend incredible amounts of time on hand calculations such as a logarithm table or trigonometric functions. Calculating all of the points for a Mandelbrot set is a comparable activity that would seem tedious today but would be routine for people of the time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7259452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7259452", "title": "Ukrainian independence referendum, 1991", "text": "Ukrainian independence referendum, 1991\n\nA referendum on the Act of Declaration of Independence was held in Ukraine on 1 December 1991. An overwhelming majority of 92.3% of voters approved the declaration of independence made by the Verkhovna Rada on 24 August 1991.\n\nVoters were asked \"Do you support the Act of Declaration of Independence of Ukraine?\" The text of the Declaration was included as a preamble to the question. The referendum was called by the Parliament of Ukraine to confirm the Act of Independence, which was adopted by the Parliament on 24 August 1991. Citizens of Ukraine expressed overwhelming support for independence. In the referendum, 31,891,742 registered voters (or 84.18% of the electorate) took part, and among them 28,804,071 (or 92.3%) voted \"Yes\".\n\nOn the same day, a presidential election took place. All six candidates campaigned in favour of a \"Yes\" vote in the independence referendum. Leonid Kravchuk, the parliament chairman and de facto head of state, was elected to serve as the first President of Ukraine.\n\nFrom 2 December 1991 on Ukraine was globally recognized as an independent state (by other countries). That day the President of the Russian SFSR Boris Yeltsin did the same. In a telegram of congratulations Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev sent to Kravchuk soon after the referendum, Gorbachev included his hopes for close Ukrainian cooperation and understanding in \"the formation of a union of sovereign states\".\n\nUkraine was the second-most powerful republic in the Soviet Union both economically and politically (behind only Russia), and its secession ended any realistic chance of Gorbachev keeping the Soviet Union together. By December 1991 all former Soviet Republics except the RSFSR and the Kazakh SSR had formally seceded from the Union. A week after his election, Kravchuk joined with Yeltsin and Belarusian leader Stanislav Shushkevich in signing the Belavezha Accords, which declared that the Soviet Union had ceased to exist. The Soviet Union officially dissolved on 26 December.\n\nUkrainian media had converted en masse to the independence ideal.\n\nPolls showed 63% support for the \"Yes\" campaign in September 1991; that grew to 77% in the first week of October 1991 and 88% by mid-November 1991.\n\n55% of the ethnic Russians in Ukraine voted for independence.\nThe Act of Independence was supported by a majority of voters in each of the 27 administrative regions of Ukraine: 24 Oblasts, 1 Autonomous Republic, and 2 Special Municipalities (Kiev City and Sevastopol City). Voter turnout was lowest in Eastern and Southern Ukraine. Calculating the \"yes\"-votes as a percentage of the total electorate reveals a lower percentage of all possible voters in Kharkiv, Luhansk, Donetsk, and Odessa Oblasts and Crimea supported Ukrainian independence than in the rest of the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215382", "title": "United States v. Shabani", "text": "United States v. Shabani\n\nUnited States v. Shabani, 513 U.S. 10 (1994), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States clarified standards for conspiracy liability under a federal drug conspiracy statute. In a unanimous opinion written by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, the Court held that government prosecutors need not prove evidence of an overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy when prosecuting individuals under the drug conspiracy statute codified at 21 U.S.C. § 846. Justice O'Connor wrote that Congress intended to \"adopt the common law definition\" of conspiracy for section 846, which did not require an overt act as a precondition of liability. Justice O'Connor's opinion also compared the drug conspiracy statute to the general conspiracy statute, which requires that a conspirator commit an over act in furtherance of the conspiracy, noting that \"[i]n light of this additional element in the general conspiracy statute, Congress' silence in § 846 speaks volumes.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "49141657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49141657", "title": "Vasantotsav", "text": "Vasantotsav\n\nThe Vasantotsav is an annual Indian Classical music, semi classical, folk and light music festival held in Pune. The festival is organized by Dr. Vasantrao Deshpande Pratisthan, Pune, in the memory of the late Dr. Vasantrao Deshpande by inviting respected artists to perform at this event. Nana Patekar is the pillar supporting this entire event.\n\nThe festival was started in the year 1985 on a small scale in Mumbai with the support of Nana Patekar. The festival played a key role in the development of Indian music. Later, the festival was conducted in Pune. Vasantotsav celebrated 10th year in 2016.\n\nMany artists have performed in the festival, such as Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, Ustad Zakir Hussain, Shankar Mahadevan, Abida Parveen, Mukul Shivputra, Niladri Kumar, Aman Ali Khan, Ayaan Ali Khan, Swapan Choudary, Roop Kumar Rathod, Ustad Rashid Khan, Ustad Shahid Parvez, Hariharan, Vikku Vinayakram, Kaushiki Chakrabarty, Shiva Mani, Shantanu Moitra, Swanand Kirkire, Pt. Rajan Mishra, Pt. Sajan Mishra, Suresh Wadkar, Daler Mehendi, Teejan Bai and Rahul Deshpande.\n\nThe newest artists who performed in 2016 include the Wadali Brothers, Mahesh Kale and George Brooks, among others.\n\nThe 2016 Vasantotsav was the 10th year of the event. This year, the event was kept free for the 14000 viewers. The event also consists of 100th show of Katyar Kaljat Ghusali (play). The play (Sangeet Natak)was done by Opera style with complete background of set of Katyar on the big stage. The play run for more than 3 hours with the standing ovation of viewers.\n\nAs per the plan, from the year 2016, Vasantotsav would be conducted all over Maharashtra so that people from other cities would also participate in the event. This would be done by Nasik and Nagpur. During Vasantotsav, the viewers donated money which was further given to NAM Foundation of Nana Patekar and Makarand Anaspure who are closely working and supporting farmers of Maharashtra.\n\nThe ‘Vasantrao Deshpande Smruti Sanman’ and ‘Vasantrao Deshpande budding artist’ awards are presented to three artists in the categories of senior guru, music researcher, and talented young musician.\n\nFollowing artists performed in 2016 Vasantotsav held in Pune.\n\n2016 Vasantotsav, Nasik is planned on 19th Feb.\n\n"}
{"id": "13192260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13192260", "title": "Walker Payne", "text": "Walker Payne\n\nWalker Payne is a 2006 film directed and co-written by Matt Williams. It features Jason Patric, Drea de Matteo, KaDee Strickland, Sam Shepard and Bruce Dern. It was shown at the Tribeca Film Festival on April 27, 2006.\n\nThe license plate on Walker's old Ford pickup truck says the year is 1957. The coal mine in an Illinois town is shutting down due to government regulations about sulfur content. So Walker is out of work. Still, Lou Ann, the mother of his children demands child support. Walker takes out all his money from the bank where Audrey works, and he and Audrey eventually date and finally move in together. While Walker is attending a baseball game with his dog Brute, a man observes that Brute is a breed well-suited to fighting. Walker will not let his dog fight. Then Lou Ann insists on going to nursing school, which will cost a great deal of money, and she expects Walker to pay or he will never see his kids again. So Walker does what he has to do. Brute is very good, but Walker is reluctant to keep fighting. However, he needs the money and continues until Brute is killed and he gets arrested for dogfighting. Lou Ann meets Audrey and then abandons them while Walker is in jail, but Walker's friend Chester agrees to take the kids until Walker is free. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9273331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9273331", "title": "Warneford Meadow", "text": "Warneford Meadow\n\nWarneford Meadow is an area of of natural grassland immediately south-east of the Warneford Hospital, in Headington, east Oxford, England. The Warneford Meadow is a wild space within urban Oxford. The area has been used by local residents as a public space for recreation for over 50 years.\n\nWarneford Meadow was purchased in 1918 by the Warneford Hospital, a psychiatric hospital, following the sale of the adjacent Southfield Farm. The purchase was funded by public subscription, with the aim of providing natural green space for the psychological benefit of patients and the local community. Archaeological trenching performed in 2006 suggested a Roman or pre-Roman settlement, or area of pottery production, in the area of the present meadow.\n\nAccess to the Meadow is gained from either a lane off Hill Top Road, beside the Southfield Park Golf Club, or Roosevelt Drive opposite the 'Little Oxford' housing development (beside the Headington Care Home). The Meadow slopes gradually down from the Hill Top Road end, towards the Boundary Brook, which runs between the Meadow and the Churchill Hospital to the East. Several public paths run across the Meadow. South of the Meadow is the Southfield Park Golf Club and the Meadow is bounded to the west by homes on Hill Top Road. Warneford Meadow also includes an orchard, on the northern border of the Meadow with the Warneford Hospital.\n\nThe Meadow contains species of butterfly, invertebrates, and birds including skylarks and kingfishers. The Meadow forms part of the 'green corridor' which links South Park to the Thames via Boundary Brook. The Meadow's border hedges include backberries. The Warneford Orchard on the northern edge of the Meadow is over 50 years old and has varieties of apple including the Russian \"Emperor Alexander\". Owls, bats, and badgers are also found in the orchard.\n\nDevelopment of the Meadow is permitted under the Oxford Local Plan 2001–2016. The Oxfordshire & Buckinghamshire Mental Health Partnership NHS Trust (OBMH) submitted two outline planning applications in July 2006, regarding the Meadow. The primary reason for the development, stated by the OBMH management, was the desire to generate capital for the Trust, in order to upgrade patient facilities. In answer to a parliamentary question about the assets of the United Kingdom's NHS as a whole Liam Byrne, the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Department of Health, revealed that the 'surplus' land at the Warneford Hospital was worth £30,900,000.\n\nThe plans for development met with substantial opposition from local residents, led by nearby Residents Associations and the action group 'Friends of Warneford Meadow'.\n\nAn application to have the land registered as a Town or Village Green (under section 22 of the Commons Registration Act 1965, amended by section 98 of the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000). was launched in December 2006. The application was successful, and Warneford Meadow was designated as a Town Green in April 2009. Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust challenged the decision in the High Court; the action commenced in February 2010. In March 2010 the High Court upheld the original decision to register the meadow as a Town Green.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4664385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4664385", "title": "Wars in Lombardy", "text": "Wars in Lombardy\n\nThe Wars in Lombardy were a series of conflicts between the Republic of Venice and the Duchy of Milan and their respective allies, fought in four campaigns in a struggle for hegemony in Northern Italy that ravaged the economy of Lombardy and weakened the power of Venice. They lasted from 1423 until the signing of the Treaty of Lodi in 1454. \nDuring their course, the political structure of Italy was transformed: out of a competitive congeries of communes and city-states emerged the five major Italian territorial powers that would make up the map of Italy for the remainder of the 15th century and the beginning of the Italian Wars at the turn of the 16th century. They were Venice, Milan, Florence, the Papal States and Naples.\nImportant cultural centers of Tuscany and Northern Italy—Siena, Pisa, Urbino, Mantua, Ferrara—became politically marginalized.\n\nThe wars, which were both a result and cause of Venetian involvement in the power politics of mainland Italy, found Venetian territory extended to the banks of the Adda and involved the rest of Italy in shifting alliances but only minor skirmishing. \nThe shifting counterweight in the balance was the allegiance of Florence, at first allied with Venice against encroachments by Visconti Milan, then switching to ally with Francesco Sforza against the increasing territorial threat of Venice. \nThe Peace of Lodi, concluded in 1454, brought forty years of comparative peace to Northern Italy, as Venetian conflicts focused elsewhere.\n\nAfter the Treaty of Lodi, there was a balance of power resulting in a period of stability lasting for 40 years. During this time, there was a mutual pledge of non-aggression between the five Italian powers, sometimes known as the Italic League. Even there was frequent tension between Milan and Naples, the peace held remarkably well until the outbreak of the Italian Wars in 1494, as Milan called upon the king of France to press his claim on the kingdom of Naples.\n\nThe first of four campaigns against the territorial ambitions of Filippo Maria Visconti, duke of Milan, was connected to the death of the lord of Forlì, Giorgio Ordelaffi. He had named Visconti the trustee of his nine-year-old heir, Teobaldo II. The latter's mother, Lucrezia degli Alidosi, daughter of the lord of Imola, did not agree and assumed the regency for herself. The Forlivesi rebelled and called in the city the Milanese Visconti's condottiero, Agnolo della Pergola (May 14, 1423). Florence reacted by declaring war on Visconti. Its captain Pandolfo Malatesta therefore entered Romagna to help the Alidosi of Imola, but he was defeated and the city stormed on February 14, 1424. The young Luigi degli Alidosi was sent captive to Milan and a few days later the lord of Faenza, Guidantonio Manfredi, joined the Visconti party. The Florentine army, this time commanded by Carlo Malatesta, was again defeated, at the Battle of Zagonara in July; Carlo, taken prisoner, was freed by Visconti and joined him too. Florence thus hired Niccolò Piccinino and Oddo da Montone, but the two were also beaten in Val di Lamone. Oddo was killed but Piccinino was able to convince Manfredi to declare war against Visconti.\n\nAfter the failure in Romagna, Florence tried to defy the Visconti from the Ligurian side, by allying with the Aragonese of Naples. However, both a fleet of 24 Aragonese galleys sent to Genoa to move it to fight against the Milanese, and a land army, were unsuccessful. In the meantime, Piccinino and the other condottiero Francesco Sforza had been hired by Visconti, who also sent an army to invade Tuscany under Guido Torello. He subsequently defeated the Florentine army at Anghiari and Faggiuola.\n\nThe Florentine disaster was countered by the pact signed on December 4, 1425 with the Republic of Venice. By the agreement the war was to be pursued at the common expense of both: the conquests in Lombardy to be assigned to the Venetians; those in Romagna and Tuscany to the Florentines. The condottiero Carmagnola was appointed Captain General of the League. In the ensuing fighting seasons (1425–26), Carmagnola, recently in the pay of Visconti, retook Brescia, which he had recently taken on behalf of Visconti, after a long siege which saw massive use of artillery (November 26, 1426). Meanwhile, the Venetian fleet on the Po River, under Francesco Bembo, advanced as far as Padua, and the Florentines regained all their lands in Tuscany. Visconti, who had already ceded Forlì and Imola to the Pope to gain his favour, called a mediation. Through the intervention of the Papal legate, Niccolò degli Albergati, the peace was signed on December 30, 1426 in Venice.\n\nVisconti regained the lands occupied by Florence in Liguria, but had to renounce the area of Vercelli, conquered by Amadeus VIII of Savoy, and Brescia, which went to Venice, and to promise to stop encroaching himself in Romagna and Tuscany.\n\nThe peace did not last very long. Under advice by the emperor Sigismund, Visconti refused to ratify it and the war broke out in May 1427. The Milanese were initially victorious, taking Casalmaggiore and besieging Brescello; the fleet sent there was set on fire by the Venetian fleet of Bembo; however, Niccolò Piccinino was able to defeat Carmagnola at Gottolengo on May 29. The Venetian commander pushed him back and conquered Casalmaggiore on July 12, while Orlando Pallavicino, lord of several castles near Parma, rebelled against the Visconti as Amadeus VIII and John Jacob of Montferrat invaded Lombardy from East.\n\nVisconti could count on some of the best condottieri of the time, such as Sforza, della Pergola, Piccinino and Guido Torello. In order to counter their mutual jealousy, he named supreme commander Carlo Malatesta. The latter led the Milanese at Maclodio (October 4, 1427), being crushed by the Venetians under Carmagnola. The victory was however indecisive, and Visconti managed to be reconciled with Amadeus by ceding him Vercelli and marrying his daughter, Marie of Savoy. However, as Sforza was defeated by some Genoese exiled and Sigismund's help was wanting, Visconti sued for a treaty. With the mediation of the Pope, the peace was signed at Ferrara on April 18, 1428. A Venetian governor was established at Bergamo and Crema (1429) in addition to confirming the Venetian possession of Brescia and its \"contado\" (neighbourhood). The Florentines recovered the strongholds they had lost, apart from Volterra, which rebelled against the new settlement. The troops sent to reduce that city, under Niccolò Fortebraccio, were later sent to invade the Lucca, whose lord, Paolo Guinigi, had previously sided with the Visconti.\n\nThe third war (1431-1433) started, therefore, when Visconti took up the Lucchese cause, by sending them Francesco Sforza, with 3,000 horse; Sforza, however, was eventually bought off with fifty thousand ducats by the Florentines, who continued the siege of Lucca after the condottiero had left. Called in by the besieged, Visconti managed to have the Republic of Genoa declare war against Florence. The subsequent defeat on the Serchio banks of their commander Guidantonio da Montefeltro (December 2, 1430), encouraged the Florentines to engage the aid of Venice once more and re-erect their lapsed League, with the favour of the new Pope, Eugene IV, a Venetian. Visconti replied by rehiring Piccinino and Sforza, who were again to face Carmagnola.\n\nThe League's army was first beaten at Soncino (May 17, 1431), while Luigi Colonna defeated the Venetians at Cremona, Cristoforo Lavello pushed back the Montferrat troops, and Piccinino established strong positions in Tuscany. Another source of dismay for the revived League was the destruction of the Po Fleet under Niccolò Trevisani near Pavia (June 23). In 1431 Visconti also found a precious ally in Amadeus VIII of Savoy in exchange for his help against John Jacob of Montferrat.\n\nVenice won a naval victory over Genoa at San Fruttuoso on 27 August 1431, but on land Carmagnola, the commander of Venetian forces, moved cautiously, avoiding a pitched battle and raising the suspicion he could have been bought by Visconti, while the latter was also joined by Sigismund who had entered Italy to receive the imperial crown. In the end Carmagnola was suspended; recalled by the Council of Ten, he was arrested in March 1432, tried for treason and beheaded outside the Doge's Palace. In November 1432 a Venetian army was crushed by Piccinino at the Battle of Delebio by a joint army of Milan and Valtellina, which had been invaded by the Serenissima in 1431.\n\nThe peace of Ferrara in May 1433 institutionalized an unsteady status quo. The Florentine war with Lucca and her allies likewise resulted in a return to the previous status quo, but the major League leader's lack of successes had lost much charisma: the Venetian doge Francesco Foscari was on the verge of resigning, while Cosimo de' Medici was imprisoned and confined in Padua. Another result of the peace agreement was the reduction of Montferrat to a satellite of Savoy.\n\nIn the so-called \"fourth war\" broader questions were personalized in the combats among antagonistic condottieri: Gattamelata, and later Francesco Sforza fought nominally for Venice, while the Visconti side was led by Niccolò Piccinino, who had promised to Eugene IV to reconquer the Marche for him. But, in a reversal typical of the time, when he captured Ravenna and Bologna, he forced the cities to recognize Milanese suzerainty.\n\nPiccinino, backed by Gian Francesco Gonzaga, had invaded the Lombard possessions of Venice. In September 1438 he laid siege to Brescia and assaulted Bergamo and Verona. In response to this Venice signed an alliance with Florence and Francesco Sforza, including some notable captains of the time such as Astorre II Manfredi, Pietro Persaliano and Niccolò III of Ferrara, who was also restored the Polesine in exchange for his support.\n\nThe Milanese were repeatedly defeated in Tuscany and at Soncino (June 14, 1440). The war seemed won for Venice, and Sforza went to Venice to receive the honour of a triumph. However, Piccinino returned from Romagna in February 1441 and crushed Sforza's garrison at Chiari. Sforza besieged Martinengo, but when Piccinino cut him off from any possibility of retreat the situation looked again favourable to Milan. Believing that the victory was now in his hands, he asked from Visconti the signiory of Piacenza in exchange for it. The lord of Milan preferred instead to appeal to Sforza for an agreement.\n\nOn the field of Cavriana, Sforza acted as mediator between the two sides, accomplishing the act for which Carmagnola had lost his head. No large territorial changes were made in the ensuing Peace of Cremona of 20 November 1441: Venice kept Ravenna, Florence the Casentino. Piccinino was awarded the lands of Orlando Pallavicino in the Parmense, while Filippo Maria Visconti recognized the independence of Genoa and again promised to stop interfering with the situation in Tuscany and Romagna.\n\nOff the battlefields, important dynastic and political changes occurred: Francesco Sforza entered the service of Visconti and married his daughter, Bianca Maria Visconti, while Florence took a new turn under Cosimo de' Medici. After Visconti died in 1447, Francesco Sforza, backed by Lorenzo de' Medici, entered Milan in triumph (May 1450). Two coalitions now formed: Sforza's Milan allied with Medici's Florence on the one hand, faced Venice and the Aragonese Kingdom of Naples on the other. The main theater of war remained Lombardy, where both sides joined in the Peace of Lodi (May 1454), a compromise peace that formed the basis for a general accord among the four contenders, Venice, Milan, Florence and Naples, under the blessings of Pope Nicholas V, representing the fifth power in Italy. The peace of Lodi is often marked as the emergence of a consciously expressed European political principle of balance of power.\n\n\n"}
