{"id": "32020033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32020033", "title": "A Philosopher by Lamplight", "text": "A Philosopher by Lamplight\n\nA Philosopher by lamplight (also known as A Hermit Studying Anatomy) is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby. It is not known when Wright painted the picture, but it was first exhibited in 1769 in London with the Society of Artists. This was one of the earliest of many lamplight or candlelight paintings and portraits for which Wright is famed.\n\nThis picture was described in the catalogue of the 1801 sale as a companion to \"The Alchemist Discovering Phosphorus\". Each has a main figure in the foreground with two subsidiary ones behind, both are night scenes and show old men engaged in scientific research.\n\nThe painting shows an old man who is thought to be a philosopher or a pilgrim,examining a collection of human bones in a lamp-lit cave. Two smaller men, or boys, dressed as pilgrims (as identified by the scallop shells in their hats: the emblem of St James) seem to be approaching him. The size of these figures is a lot smaller than the main character in the painting. Outside the cave the dark landscape is lit by the moonlight breaking through the clouds. Shells were the sign of pilgrims but they were also the emblem of the Darwin family which included Erasmus Darwin who was a leading member of the Lunar Society and Derby Philosophical Society which linked key men in the age of enlightenment.\n\nExperts believe that this painting was based on Salvator Rosa's \"Democritus in Meditation\". Wright’s friend John Hamilton Mortimer was a follower of Rosa’s so it is possible that Wright would have seen Rosa's work or an engraving of it. Democritus was a Greek philosopher who is remembered for making fun of the foolishness of mankind.\n\nThough the painting's subtitle is \"A Hermit Studying Anatomy\", his attitude towards the bones he is holding does not suggest particularly serious scrutiny. He is surrounded by symbols of the ephemeral nature of the human condition which include the skeleton, a lamp that will burn all its fuel, the moon which has to be reborn every four weeks and an hour glass. The moon was also the symbol of the Lunar Society which Wright was strongly associated with although he never became a member.\n\nThe preoccupation of the philosopher and trepidation of the two pilgrims may be a reflection on concerns about the new scientific understanding and enlightenment at the time Wright lived.\n"}
{"id": "54184868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54184868", "title": "Apographa", "text": "Apographa\n\nApographa refers to established copies or transcripts of certain texts, usually religious or ecclesiastical, rather than the original autographs by the original authors or writers.\n\nThere are scholars and theologians who consider only the original autographs of Scripture as infallible and as final authority, while others hold more to what is called the \"Ecclesiastical Text\" view, that Scripture canon is also authoritative in various renderings in later copies or manuscript traditions, or established \"apo-grapha\" (meaning \"copied-writings\"), and not just the original autographs alone. The reason being that the \"original autographs\" no longer actually exist, in tangible extant form, so later verified copies of copies, or \"apographa\", are the only real tangible or present \"canon\" that we have, and providentially preserved for current knowledge. And that the \"apographa\" or \"Ecclesiastical Text\" is all that is really available and should be mainly considered realistically, from established and accepted confessions, church traditions, revivals, productivity, understandings, and interpretations, and should be all that is accepted reasonably, efficiently, or sufficiently, for study or edification.\n\nOther theologians and scholars hold to what's called the \"Critical Text\" position, such as put forth by Westcott and Hort, that seeks to find out and put forth what the original Apostles and Prophets actually wrote, regardless of later tradition or confessional history, or \"majority text\" views. Regarding Westcott and Hort's work, according to Bible scholar and translator Bruce M. Metzger, \"the general validity of their critical principles and procedures is widely acknowledged by scholars today.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "770474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=770474", "title": "Aristarchus of Samothrace", "text": "Aristarchus of Samothrace\n\nAristarchus of Samothrace (; c. 220 – c. 143 BC) was a grammarian noted as the most influential of all scholars of Homeric poetry. He was the librarian of the library of Alexandria and seems to have succeeded his teacher Aristophanes of Byzantium in that role.\n\nHe left Samothrace island at a young age and went to Alexandria where he studied with the director of the library. Later at first he was a teacher at the Royal courtyard and then director of the library from 153 to 145 BC. After he was persecuted by his disciple Ptolemy the Benefactor, he found refuge in Cyprus where he died. \n\nIt said that Aristarchus had a remarkable memory and was completely indifferent as to his external appearance.\n\nHe established the most historically important critical edition of the Homeric poems, and he is said to have applied his teacher's accent system to it, pointing the texts with a careful eye for metrical correctness. His rejection of doubtful lines made his severity proverbial. It is likely that he, or more probably, another predecessor at Alexandria, Zenodotus, was responsible for the division of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" into twenty-four books each. According to the \"Suda\", Aristarchus wrote 800 treatises () on various topics; these are all lost but for fragments preserved in the various \"scholia.\" His works cover such writers as Alcaeus, Anacreon, Pindar, Hesiod, and the tragedians.\n\nAccounts of his death vary, though they agree that it was during the persecutions of Ptolemy VIII of Egypt. One account has him, having contracted an incurable dropsy, starving himself to death while in exile on Cyprus.\n\nHe modified the system of the ancient Greek textual signs (\"semeia\") and from some point on these signs were called Aristarchian symbols. The historical connection of his name to literary criticism has created the term aristarch for someone who is a judgmental critic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4840", "title": "Blitz BASIC", "text": "Blitz BASIC\n\nBlitz BASIC refers to the programming language dialect that was interpreted by the first Blitz compilers, devised by New Zealand-based developer Mark Sibly. Being derived from BASIC, Blitz syntax was designed to be easy to pick up for beginners first learning to program. The languages are game-programming oriented but are often found general-purpose enough to be used for most types of application. The Blitz language evolved as new products were released, with recent incarnations offering support for more advanced programming techniques such as object-orientation and multi-threading. This led to the languages losing their BASIC moniker in later years.\n\nThe first iteration of the Blitz language was created for the Amiga platform and published by the Australian firm Memory and Storage Technology. Returning to New Zealand, Blitz BASIC 2 was published several years later by Acid Software (a local Amiga game publisher). Since then, Blitz compilers have been released on several platforms. Following the demise of the Amiga as a commercially viable platform, the Blitz BASIC 2 source code was released to the Amiga community. Development continues to this day under the name AmiBlitz.\n\nIdigicon published BlitzBasic for Microsoft Windows in October 2000. The language included a built-in API for performing basic 2D graphics and audio operations. Following the release of Blitz3D, BlitzBasic is often synonymously referred to as Blitz2D.\n\nRecognition of BlitzBasic increased when a limited range of \"free\" versions were distributed in popular UK computer magazines such as PC Format. This resulted in a legal dispute between the developer and publisher which was eventually resolved amicably.\n\nIn February 2003, Blitz Research Ltd. released BlitzPlus also for Microsoft Windows. It lacked the 3D engine of Blitz3D, but did bring new features to the 2D side of the language by implementing limited Microsoft Windows control support for creating native GUIs. Backwards compatibility of the 2D engine was also extended, allowing compiled BlitzPlus games and applications to run on systems that might only have DirectX 1.\n\nThe first BlitzMax compiler was released in December 2004 for Mac OS X. This made it the first Blitz dialect that could be compiled on *nix platforms. Compilers for Microsoft Windows and Linux were subsequently released in May 2005. BlitzMax brought the largest change of language structure to the modern range of Blitz products by extending the type system to include object-oriented concepts and modifying the graphics API to better suit OpenGL. BlitzMax was also the first of the Blitz languages to represent strings internally using UCS2, allowing native-support for string literals composed of non-ASCII characters.\n\nBlitzMax's platform-agnostic command-set allows developers to compile and run source code on multiple platforms. However the official compiler and build chain will only generate binaries for the platform that it is executing on. Unofficially, users have been able to get Linux and Mac OS X to cross-compile to the Windows platform.\n\nBlitzMax is also the first modular version of the Blitz languages, improving the extensibility of the command-set. In addition, all of the standard modules shipped with the compiler are open-source and so can be tweaked and recompiled by the programmer if necessary. The official BlitzMax cross-platform GUI module (known as MaxGUI) allows developers to write GUI interfaces for their applications on Linux (FLTK), Mac (Cocoa) and Windows. Various user-contributed modules extend the use of the language by wrapping such libraries as wxWidgets, Cairo, and Fontconfig as well as a selection of database modules. There are also a selection of third-party 3D modules available namely MiniB3D - an open-source OpenGL engine which can be compiled and used on all three of BlitzMax's supported platforms.\n\nIn October 2007, BlitzMax 1.26 was released which included the addition of a reflection module. BlitzMax 1.32 shipped new threading and Lua scripting modules and most of the standard library functions have been updated so that they are unicode friendly.\n\nBlitz3D SDK is a 3D graphics engine based on the engine in Blitz3D. It was marketed for use with C++, C#, BlitzMax and PureBasic, however it could also be used with other languages that follow compatible calling conventions. A game example for Blitz3d is SCP – Containment Breach which was made with Blitz3d\n\nIn 2008, the source code to Max3D - a C++-based cross-platform 3D engine - was released under a BSD license. This engine focused on OpenGL but had an abstract backend for other graphics drivers (such as DirectX) and made use of several open-source libraries, namely Assimp, Boost and ODE.\n\nDespite the excitement in the Blitz community of Max3D being the eagerly awaited successor to Blitz3D, interest and support died off soon after the source code was released and eventually development came to a halt. There is no indication that Blitz Research will pick up the project again.\n\nBlitzPlus was released as Open Source on 28 April 2014 under the zlib license on github.com. Blitz3D followed soon after and was released as Open Source on 3 August 2014. BlitzMax was later released as Open Source on 21 September 2015.\n\nThe following code creates a windowed application that shows the current time in binary and decimal format. This code is written in BlitzBasic, but will compile and run in both Blitz3D and BlitzPlus. See below for the same example written in BlitzMax.\n\n\nIn 2011, BRL released a new cross-platform programming language called Monkey and its first official module called Mojo. Monkey has a similar syntax to BlitzMax, but instead of compiling direct to assembly code, it translates Monkey source files directly into source code for a chosen language, framework or platform e.g. Windows, Mac OS X, iOS, Android, HTML5, and Adobe Flash.\n\nDevelopment of Monkey has been halted in favor of monkey2, an updated version of the language by Mark Sibly.\n\n"}
{"id": "60520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60520", "title": "Boxer Rebellion", "text": "Boxer Rebellion\n\nThe Boxer Rebellion (), Boxer Uprising, or Yihetuan Movement () was an anti-foreign, anti-colonial, and anti-Christian uprising that took place in China between 1899 and 1901, toward the end of the Qing dynasty. They were motivated by proto-nationalist sentiments and by opposition to Western colonialism and the Christian missionary activity that was associated with it.\n\nIt was initiated by the Militia United in Righteousness (\"Yihetuan\"), known in English as the \"Boxers\", for many of their members had been practitioners of Chinese martial arts, also referred to in the west as \"Chinese Boxing\". The uprising took place against a background that included severe drought and disruption caused by the growth of foreign spheres of influence. After several months of growing violence in Shandong and the North China plain against the foreign and Christian presence in June 1900, Boxer fighters, convinced they were invulnerable to foreign weapons, converged on Beijing with the slogan \"Support the Qing government and exterminate the foreigners\". Foreigners and Chinese Christians sought refuge in the Legation Quarter.\n\nIn response to reports of an armed invasion by allied American, Austro-Hungarian, British, French, German, Italian, Japanese, and Russian forces to lift the siege, the initially hesitant Empress Dowager Cixi supported the Boxers and on June21 issued an Imperial Decree declaring war on the foreign powers. Diplomats, foreign civilians, and soldiers as well as Chinese Christians in the Legation Quarter were detained for 55 days by the Imperial Army of China and the Boxers.\n\nChinese officialdom was split between those supporting the Boxers and those favoring conciliation, led by Prince Qing. The supreme commander of the Chinese forces, the Manchu General Ronglu (Junglu), later claimed he acted to protect the besieged foreigners. Many officials refused the imperial order to fight against foreigners in their Mutual Protection of Southeast China, because Qing had lost the First Sino-Japanese War five years before.\n\nThe Eight-Nation Alliance, after being initially turned back, brought 20,000 armed troops to China, defeated the Imperial Army, and arrived at Peking on August14, relieving the siege of the Legations. Uncontrolled plunder of the capital and the surrounding countryside ensued, along with the summary execution of those suspected of being Boxers.\n\nThe Boxer Protocol of 7 September 1901 provided for the execution of government officials who had supported the Boxers, provisions for foreign troops to be stationed in Beijing, and 450 million taels of silver—approximately $10 billion at 2018 silver prices and more than the government's annual tax revenue—to be paid as indemnity over the course of the next thirty-nine years to the eight nations involved. The Empress Dowager then sponsored a set of institutional and fiscal changes in a failed attempt to save the dynasty.\n\nThe Righteous and Harmonious Fists (Yihequan) arose in the inland sections of the northern coastal province of Shandong, long known for social unrest, religious sects, and martial societies. American Christian missionaries were probably the first to refer to the well-trained, athletic young men as \"Boxers\", because of the martial arts and weapons training they practiced. Their primary practice was a type of spiritual possession which involved the whirling of swords, violent prostrations, and chanting incantations to deities.\n\nThe opportunities to fight back Western encroachment and colonization were especially attractive to unemployed village men, many of whom were teenagers. The tradition of possession and invulnerability went back several hundred years but took on special meaning against the powerful new weapons of the West. The Boxers, armed with rifles and swords, claimed supernatural invulnerability towards blows of cannon, rifle shots, and knife attacks. Furthermore, the Boxer groups popularly claimed that millions of soldiers of Heaven would descend to assist them in purifying China of foreign oppression. These beliefs are characteristic of millenarian movements of nativist resistance, especially the characteristic magical belief, shared by the Ghost Dancers of North America and the Kartelite Cults of Africa, that the believer could be rendered invulnerable to bullets.\n\nIn 1895, in spite of ambivalence toward their heterodox practices, Yuxian, a Manchu who was then prefect of Caozhou and would later become provincial governor, used the Big Swords Society in fighting bandits. The Big Swords, emboldened by this official support, also attacked their local Catholic village rivals, who turned to the Church for protection. The Big Swords responded by attacking Catholic churches and burning them. \"The line between Christians and bandits\", remarks one recent historian, \"became increasingly indistinct.\" As a result of diplomatic pressure in the capital, Yuxian executed several Big Sword leaders, but did not punish anyone else. More martial secret societies started emerging after this.\n\nThe early years saw a variety of village activities, not a broad movement with a united purpose. Martial folk religious societies such as the Baguadao (Eight Trigrams) prepared the way for the Boxers. Like the Red Boxing school or the Plum Flower Boxers, the Boxers of Shandong were more concerned with traditional social and moral values, such as filial piety, than with foreign influences. One leader, Zhu Hongdeng (Red Lantern Zhu), started as a wandering healer, specializing in skin ulcers, and gained wide respect by refusing payment for his treatments. Zhu claimed descent from Ming dynasty emperors, since his surname was the surname of the Ming imperial family. He announced that his goal was to \"Revive the Qing and destroy the foreigners\" (\"扶清灭洋 \"fu Qing mie yang\"\").\n\nEuropean legations had a particular jurisdiction status in Peking: they were not subject to Chinese authorities. A den of robbers had been formed in the out-buildings of the German legation, mainly among Lutheran missionaries. They were doing pillage in the city as much as they could, then took shelter in the European legations to escape any punishment for their criminal acts, hence triggering exasperation among the townspeople. The German minister, in an attempt to stop the rising counter-movement, set himself to harrangue the mob, but he only succeeded to get himself killed in the turmoil. To avenge this outrage, a retaliation expedition was organized at once, involving most European states in the wake of Germany.\n\nThe combination of extreme weather conditions, Western attempts at colonizing China and growing anti-imperialist sentiment fueled the movement. First, a drought followed by floods in Shandong province in 1897–1898 forced farmers to flee to cities and seek food. As one observer said, \"I am convinced that a few days' heavy rainfall to terminate the long-continued drought ... would do more to restore tranquility than any measures which either the Chinese government or foreign governments can take.\"\n\nA major cause of discontent in north China was missionary activity. The Treaty of Tientsin (or Tianjin) and the Convention of Peking, signed in 1860 after the Second Opium War, had granted foreign missionaries the freedom to preach anywhere in China and to buy land on which to build churches. On 1 November 1897, a band of armed men who were perhaps members of the Big Swords Society stormed the residence of a German missionary from the Society of the Divine Word and killed two priests. This attack is known as the Juye Incident.\n\nWhen Kaiser Wilhelm II received news of these murders, he dispatched the German East Asia Squadron to occupy Jiaozhou Bay on the southern coast of the Shandong peninsula. Germany's action triggered a \"scramble for concessions\" by which Britain, France, Russia and Japan also secured their own sphere of influence in China.\n\nIn October 1898, a group of Boxers attacked the Christian community of Liyuantun village where a temple to the Jade Emperor had been converted into a Catholic church. Disputes had surrounded the church since 1869, when the temple had been granted to the Christian residents of the village. This incident marked the first time the Boxers used the slogan \"Support the Qing, destroy the foreigners\" (\"扶清灭洋 \"fu Qing mie yang\"\") that would later characterise them. The \"Boxers\" called themselves the \"Militia United in Righteousness\" for the first time one year later, at the Battle of Senluo Temple (October 1899), a clash between Boxers and Qing government troops. By using the word \"Militia\" rather than \"Boxers\", they distanced themselves from forbidden martial arts sects, and tried to give their movement the legitimacy of a group that defended orthodoxy.\n\nAggression toward missionaries and Christians drew the ire of foreign (mainly European) governments. In 1899, the French minister in Beijing helped the missionaries to obtain an edict granting official status to every order in the Roman Catholic hierarchy, enabling local priests to support their people in legal or family disputes and bypass the local officials. After the German government took over Shandong many Chinese feared that the foreign missionaries and quite possibly all Christian activities were imperialist attempts at \"carving the melon\", i.e., to divide and colonize China piece by piece. A Chinese official expressed the animosity towards foreigners succinctly, \"Take away your missionaries and your opium and you will be welcome.\"\n\nThe early growth of the Boxer movement coincided with the Hundred Days' Reform (11 June – 21 September 1898). Progressive Chinese officials, with support from Protestant missionaries, persuaded the Guangxu Emperor to institute reforms which alienated many conservative officials by their sweeping nature. Such opposition from conservative officials led Empress Dowager Cixi to intervene and reverse the reforms. The failure of the reform movement disillusioned many educated Chinese and thus further weakened the Qing government. After the reforms ended, the conservative Empress Dowager Cixi seized power and placed the reformist Guangxu Emperor under house arrest.\n\nThe national crisis was widely seen as being caused by foreign aggression. Foreign powers had defeated China in several wars, forced a right to promote Christianity and imposed unequal treaties under which foreigners and foreign companies in China were accorded special privileges, extraterritorial rights and immunities from Chinese law, causing resentment among the Chinese. France, Japan, Russia and Germany carved out spheres of influence, so that by 1900 it appeared that China would likely be dismembered, with foreign powers each ruling a part of the country. Thus, by 1900, the Qing dynasty, which had ruled China for more than two centuries, was crumbling and Chinese culture was under assault by powerful and unfamiliar religions and secular cultures.\n\nIn January 1900, with a majority of conservatives in the imperial court, Empress Dowager Cixi changed her position on the Boxers, and issued edicts in their defence, causing protests from foreign powers. In spring 1900, the Boxer movement spread rapidly north from Shandong into the countryside near Beijing. Boxers burned Christian churches, killed Chinese Christians and intimidated Chinese officials who stood in their way. American Minister Edwin H. Conger cabled Washington, \"the whole country is swarming with hungry, discontented, hopeless idlers.\" On 30 May the diplomats, led by British Minister Claude Maxwell MacDonald, requested that foreign soldiers come to Beijing to defend the legations. The Chinese government reluctantly acquiesced, and the next day a multinational force of 435 navy troops from eight countries disembarked from warships and travelled by train from Dagu (Taku) to Beijing. They set up defensive perimeters around their respective missions.\n\nOn 5 June 1900, the railway line to Tianjin was cut by Boxers in the countryside and Beijing was isolated. On 11 June, at Yongding gate, the secretary of the Japanese legation, Sugiyama Akira, was attacked and killed by the soldiers of general Dong Fuxiang, who were guarding the southern part of the Beijing walled city. Armed with Mauser rifles but wearing traditional uniforms, Dong's troops had threatened the foreign Legations in the fall of 1898 soon after arriving in Beijing, so much that troops from the United States Marine Corps had been called to Beijing to guard the legations. The German Kaiser Wilhelm II was so alarmed by the Chinese Muslim troops that he requested the Caliph Abdul Hamid II of the Ottoman Empire to find a way to stop the Muslim troops from fighting.\n\nThe Caliph agreed to the Kaiser's request and sent Enver Pasha (\"not\" the future Young Turk leader) to China in 1901, but the rebellion was over by that time.\n\nAlso on 11 June, the first Boxer, dressed in his finery, was seen in the Legation Quarter. The German Minister, Clemens von Ketteler, and German soldiers captured a Boxer boy and inexplicably executed him. In response, thousands of Boxers burst into the walled city of Beijing that afternoon and burned many of the Christian churches and cathedrals in the city, burning some victims alive. American and British missionaries had taken refuge in the Methodist Mission and an attack there was repulsed by American Marines. The soldiers at the British Embassy and German Legations shot and killed several Boxers, alienating the Chinese population of the city and nudging the Qing government toward support of the Boxers.\n\nThe Muslim Gansu braves and Boxers, along with other Chinese then attacked and killed Chinese Christians around the legations in revenge for foreign attacks on Chinese.\n\nAs the situation grew more violent, a second multinational force of 2,000 sailors and marines under the command of the British Vice-Admiral Edward Seymour, the largest contingent being British, was dispatched from Dagu to Beijing on 10 June 1900. The troops were transported by train from Dagu to Tianjin with the agreement of the Chinese government, but the railway between Tianjin and Beijing had been severed. Seymour resolved to move forward and repair the railway, or progress on foot if necessary, keeping in mind that the distance between Tianjin and Beijing was only 120 km. When Seymour left Tianjin and started toward Beijing, it angered the imperial court.\n\nAs a result, the pro-Boxer Manchu Prince Duan became leader of the Zongli Yamen (foreign office), replacing Prince Qing. Prince Duan was a member of the imperial Aisin Gioro clan (foreigners called him a \"Blood Royal\"), and Empress Dowager Cixi had named her son as next in line for the imperial throne. He became the effective leader of the Boxers, and was extremely anti-foreigner. He soon ordered the Qing imperial army to attack the foreign forces. Confused by conflicting orders from Beijing, General Nie Shicheng let Seymour's army pass by in their trains.\n\nAfter leaving Tianjin, the convoy quickly reached Langfang, but found the railway there to be destroyed. Seymour's engineers tried to repair the line, but the allied army found itself surrounded, as the railway both behind and in front of them had been destroyed. They were attacked from all parts by Chinese irregulars and Chinese governmental troops. Five thousand of Dong Fuxiang's \"Gansu Braves\" and an unknown number of \"Boxers\" won a costly but major victory over Seymour's troops at the Battle of Langfang on 18 June. As the allied European army retreated from Langfang, they were constantly fired upon by cavalry, and artillery bombarded their positions. It was reported that the Chinese artillery was superior to the European artillery, since the Europeans did not bother to bring along much for the campaign, thinking they could easily sweep through Chinese resistance.\n\nThe Europeans could not locate the Chinese artillery, which was raining shells upon their positions. Mining, engineering, flooding and simultaneous attacks were employed by Chinese troops. The Chinese also employed pincer movements, ambushes and sniper tactics with some success against the foreigners.\n\nNews arrived on 18 June regarding attacks on foreign legations. Seymour decided to continue advancing, this time along the Beihe river, toward Tongzhou, from Beijing. By the 19th, they had to abandon their efforts due to progressively stiffening resistance and started to retreat southward along the river with over 200 wounded. Commandeering four civilian Chinese junks along the river, they loaded all their wounded and remaining supplies onto them and pulled them along with ropes from the riverbanks. By this point they were very low on food, ammunition and medical supplies. Unexpectedly they then happened upon the Great Xigu Arsenal, a hidden Qing munitions cache of which the Allied Powers had had no knowledge until then. They immediately captured and occupied it, discovering not only Krupp field guns, but rifles with millions of rounds of ammunition, along with millions of pounds of rice and ample medical supplies.\n\nThere they dug in and awaited rescue. A Chinese servant was able to infiltrate through the Boxer and Qing lines, informing the Eight Powers of the Seymour troops' predicament. Surrounded and attacked nearly around the clock by Qing troops and Boxers, they were at the point of being overrun. On 25 June, a regiment composed of 1,800 men (900 Russian troops from Port Arthur, 500 British seamen, with an ad hoc mix of other assorted Alliance troops) finally arrived on foot from Tientsin to rescue Seymour. Spiking the mounted field guns and setting fire to any munitions that they could not take (an estimated £3 million worth), Seymour, his force, and the rescue mission marched back to Tientsin, unopposed, on 26 June. Seymour's casualties during the expedition were 62 killed and 228 wounded.\n\nMeanwhile, in Beijing, on 16 June, Empress Dowager Cixi summoned the imperial court for a mass audience and addressed the choices between using the Boxers to evict the foreigners from the city or seeking a diplomatic solution. In response to a high official who doubted the efficacy of the Boxers' magic, Cixi replied: Both sides of the debate at the imperial court realised that popular support for the Boxers in the countryside was almost universal and that suppression would be both difficult and unpopular, especially when foreign troops were on the march.\n\nTwo factions were active during this debate. On one side were anti-foreigners who viewed foreigners as invasive and imperialistic and evoked a nativist populism. They advocated taking advantage of the Boxers to achieve the expulsion of foreign troops and foreign influences. The pro-foreigners on the other hand advanced rapprochement with foreign governments, seeing the Boxers as superstitious and ignorant.\n\nThe event that tilted the Qing imperial government irrevocably toward support of the Boxers and war with the foreign powers was the attack of foreign navies on the Dagu Forts near Tianjin, on 17 June 1900.\n\nOn 15 June, Qing imperial forces deployed electric mines in the River Beihe (Peiho) to prevent the Eight-Nation Alliance from sending ships to attack.\nWith a difficult military situation in Tianjin and a total breakdown of communications between Tianjin and Beijing, the allied nations took steps to reinforce their military presence significantly. On 17 June they took the Dagu Forts commanding the approaches to Tianjin, and from there brought increasing numbers of troops on shore. When Cixi received an ultimatum demanding that China surrender total control over all its military and financial affairs to foreigners, she defiantly stated before the entire Grand Council, \"Now they [the Powers] have started the aggression, and the extinction of our nation is imminent. If we just fold our arms and yield to them, I would have no face to see our ancestors after death. If we must perish, why don't we fight to the death?\"\nIt was at this point that Cixi began to blockade the legations with the armies of the Peking Field Force, which began the siege. Cixi stated that \"I have always been of the opinion, that the allied armies had been permitted to escape too easily in 1860. Only a united effort was then necessary to have given China the victory. Today, at last, the opportunity for revenge has come\", and said that millions of Chinese would join the cause of fighting the foreigners since the Manchus had provided \"great benefits\" on China.\nOn receipt of the news of the attack on the Dagu Forts on the 19th of June, Empress Dowager Cixi immediately sent an order to the legations that the diplomats and other foreigners depart Beijing under escort of the Chinese army within 24 hours.\n\nThe next morning, diplomats from the besieged legations met to discuss the Empress's offer. The majority quickly agreed that they could not trust the Chinese army. Fearing that they would be killed, they agreed to refuse the Empress's demand. The German Imperial Envoy, Baron Klemens Freiherr von Ketteler, was infuriated with the actions of the Chinese army troops and determined to take his complaints to the royal court. Against the advice of the fellow foreigners, the baron left the legations with a single aide and a team of porters to carry his sedan chair. On his way to the palace, von Ketteler was killed on the streets of Beijing by a Manchu captain. His aide managed to escape the attack and carried word of the baron's death back to the diplomatic compound. At this news, the other diplomats feared they also would be murdered if they left the legation quarter and they chose to continue to defy the Chinese order to depart Beijing. The legations were hurriedly fortified. Most of the foreign civilians, which included a large number of missionaries and businessmen, took refuge in the British legation, the largest of the diplomatic compounds. Chinese Christians were primarily housed in the adjacent palace (Fu) of Prince Su who was forced to abandon his property by the foreign soldiers.\n\nOn the 21st of June, Empress Dowager Cixi declared war against all foreign powers. Regional governors who commanded substantial modernised armies, such as Li Hongzhang at Canton, Yuan Shikai in Shandong, Zhang Zhidong at Wuhan and Liu Kunyi at Nanjing, refused to join in the imperial court's declaration of war and withheld knowledge of it from the public in the south. Yuan Shikai used his own forces to suppress Boxers in Shandong, and Zhang entered into negotiations with the foreigners in Shanghai to keep his army out of the conflict. The neutrality of these provincial and regional governors left the majority of Chinese out of the conflict. They were called The Mutual Protection of Southeast China.\n\nThe legations of the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Austria-Hungary, Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands, the United States, Russia and Japan were located in the Beijing Legation Quarter south of the Forbidden City. The Chinese army and Boxer irregulars besieged the Legation Quarter from 20 June to 14 August 1900. A total of 473 foreign civilians, 409 soldiers, marines and sailors from eight countries, and about 3,000 Chinese Christians took refuge there. Under the command of the British minister to China, Claude Maxwell MacDonald, the legation staff and military guards defended the compound with small arms, three machine guns, and one old muzzle-loaded cannon, which was nicknamed the \"International Gun\" because the barrel was British, the carriage Italian, the shells Russian and the crew American. Chinese Christians in the legations led the foreigners to the cannon and it proved important in the defence. Also under siege in Beijing was the Northern Cathedral (\"Beitang\") of the Catholic Church. The Beitang was defended by 43 French and Italian soldiers, 33 Catholic foreign priests and nuns, and about 3,200 Chinese Catholics. The defenders suffered heavy casualties especially from lack of food and mines which the Chinese exploded in tunnels dug beneath the compound. The number of Chinese soldiers and Boxers besieging the Legation Quarter and the Beitang is unknown.\n\nOn the 22nd and 23 June, Chinese soldiers and Boxers set fire to areas north and west of the British Legation, using it as a \"frightening tactic\" to attack the defenders. The nearby Hanlin Academy, a complex of courtyards and buildings that housed \"the quintessence of Chinese scholarship ... the oldest and richest library in the world\", caught fire. Each side blamed the other for the destruction of the invaluable books it contained.\n\nAfter the failure to burn out the foreigners, the Chinese army adopted an anaconda-like strategy. The Chinese built barricades surrounding the Legation Quarter and advanced, brick by brick, on the foreign lines, forcing the foreign legation guards to retreat a few feet at a time. This tactic was especially used in the Fu, defended by Japanese and Italian sailors and soldiers, and inhabited by most of the Chinese Christians. Fusillades of bullets, artillery and firecrackers were directed against the Legations almost every night—but did little damage. Sniper fire took its toll among the foreign defenders. Despite their numerical advantage, the Chinese did not attempt a direct assault on the Legation Quarter although in the words of one of the besieged, \"it would have been easy by a strong, swift movement on the part of the numerous Chinese troops to have annihilated the whole body of foreigners ... in an hour.\" American missionary Frank Gamewell and his crew of \"fighting parsons\" fortified the Legation Quarter, but impressed Chinese Christians to do most of the physical labour of building defences.\n\nThe Germans and the Americans occupied perhaps the most crucial of all defensive positions: the Tartar Wall. Holding the top of the tall and wide wall was vital. The German barricades faced east on top of the wall and west were the west-facing American positions. The Chinese advanced toward both positions by building barricades even closer. \"The men all feel they are in a trap\", said the American commander, Capt. John T. Myers, \"and simply await the hour of execution.\" On 30 June, the Chinese forced the Germans off the Wall, leaving the American Marines alone in its defence. At the same time, a Chinese barricade was advanced to within a few feet of the American positions and it became clear that the Americans had to abandon the wall or force the Chinese to retreat. At 2 am on 3 July, 56 British, Russian and American marines and sailors, under the command of Myers, launched an assault against the Chinese barricade on the wall. The attack caught the Chinese sleeping, killed about 20 of them, and expelled the rest of them from the barricades. The Chinese did not attempt to advance their positions on the Tartar Wall for the remainder of the siege.\n\nSir Claude MacDonald said 13 July was the \"most harassing day\" of the siege. The Japanese and Italians in the Fu were driven back to their last defence line. The Chinese detonated a mine beneath the French Legation pushing the French and Austrians out of most of the French Legation. On 16 July, the most capable British officer was killed and the journalist George Ernest Morrison was wounded. But American Minister Edwin Hurd Conger established contact with the Chinese government and on 17 July, an armistice was declared by the Chinese. More than 40% of the legation guards were dead or wounded. The motivation of the Chinese was probably the realization that an allied force of 20,000 men had landed in China and retribution for the siege was at hand.\n\nThe Manchu General Ronglu concluded that it was futile to fight all of the powers simultaneously, and declined to press home the siege. The Manchu Zaiyi (Prince Duan), an anti-foreign friend of Dong Fuxiang, wanted artillery for Dong's troops to destroy the legations. Ronglu blocked the transfer of artillery to Zaiyi and Dong, preventing them from attacking. Ronglu forced Dong Fuxiang and his troops to pull back from completing the siege and destroying the legations, thereby saving the foreigners and making diplomatic concessions. Ronglu and Prince Qing sent food to the legations, and used their Manchu Bannermen to attack the Muslim Gansu Braves (\"Kansu Braves\" in the spelling of the time) of Dong Fuxiang and the Boxers who were besieging the foreigners. They issued edicts ordering the foreigners to be protected, but the Gansu warriors ignored it, and fought against Bannermen who tried to force them away from the legations. The Boxers also took commands from Dong Fuxiang. Ronglu also deliberately hid an Imperial Decree from General Nie Shicheng. The Decree ordered him to stop fighting the Boxers because of the foreign invasion, and also because the population was suffering. Due to Ronglu's actions, General Nie continued to fight the Boxers and killed many of them even as the foreign troops were making their way into China. Ronglu also ordered Nie to protect foreigners and save the railway from the Boxers. Because parts of the Railway were saved under Ronglu's orders, the foreign invasion army was able to transport itself into China quickly. General Nie committed thousands of troops against the Boxers instead of against the foreigners. Nie was already outnumbered by the Allies by 4,000 men. General Nie was blamed for attacking the Boxers, as Ronglu let Nie take all the blame. At the Battle of Tianjin (Tientsin), General Nie decided to sacrifice his life by walking into the range of Allied guns.\n\nXu Jingcheng, who had served as the Qing Envoy to many of the same states under siege in the Legation Quarter, argued that \"the evasion of extraterritorial rights and the killing of foreign diplomats are unprecedented in China and abroad.\" Xu and five other officials urged Empress Dowager Cixi to order the repression of Boxers, the execution of their leaders, and a diplomatic settlement with foreign armies. The Empress Dowager, outraged, sentenced Xu and the five others to death for \"willfully and absurdly petitioning the Imperial Court\" and \"building subversive thought.\" They were executed on July 28, 1900 and their severed heads placed on display at Caishikou Execution Grounds in Beijing.\n\nReflecting this vacillation, some Chinese soldiers were quite liberally firing at foreigners under siege from its very onset. Cixi did not personally order imperial troops to conduct a siege, and on the contrary had ordered them to protect the foreigners in the legations. Prince Duan led the Boxers to loot his enemies within the imperial court and the foreigners, although imperial authorities expelled Boxers after they were let into the city and went on a looting rampage against both the foreign and the Qing imperial forces. Older Boxers were sent outside Beijing to halt the approaching foreign armies, while younger men were absorbed into the Muslim Gansu army.\n\nWith conflicting allegiances and priorities motivating the various forces inside Beijing, the situation in the city became increasingly confused. The foreign legations continued to be surrounded by both Qing imperial and Gansu forces. While Dong Fuxiang's Gansu army, now swollen by the addition of the Boxers, wished to press the siege, Ronglu's imperial forces seem to have largely attempted to follow Empress Dowager Cixi's decree and protect the legations. However, to satisfy the conservatives in the imperial court, Ronglu's men also fired on the legations and let off firecrackers to give the impression that they, too, were attacking the foreigners. Inside the legations and out of communication with the outside world, the foreigners simply fired on any targets that presented themselves, including messengers from the imperial court, civilians and besiegers of all persuasions. Dong Fuxiang was denied artillery held by Ronglu which stopped him from leveling the legations, and when he complained to Empress Dowager Cixi on June 23, she dismissively said that \"Your tail, is becoming too heavy to wag.\" The Alliance discovered large amounts of unused Chinese Krupp artillery and shells after the siege was lifted.\n\nThe armistice, although occasionally broken, endured until 13 August when, with an allied army led by the British Alfred Gaselee approaching Beijing to relieve the siege, the Chinese launched their heaviest fusillade on the Legation Quarter. As the foreign army approached, Chinese forces melted away.\n\nForeign navies started building up their presence along the northern China coast from the end of April 1900. Several international forces were sent to the capital, with varying success, and the Chinese forces were ultimately defeated by the Eight-Nation Alliance of Austria-Hungary, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States. Independent of the alliance, the Netherlands dispatched three cruisers in July to protect its citizens in Shanghai.\n\nBritish Lieutenant-General Alfred Gaselee acted as the commanding officer of the Eight-Nation Alliance, which eventually numbered 55,000. The main contingent was composed of Japanese (20,840), Russian (13,150), British (12,020), French (3,520), U.S. (3,420), German (900), Italian (80), Austro-Hungarian (75) and anti-Boxer Chinese troops. The \"First Chinese Regiment\" (Weihaiwei Regiment) which was praised for its performance, consisted of Chinese collaborators serving in the British military. The international force finally captured Tianjin on 14 July under the command of the Japanese Colonel Kuriya, after a day of fighting.\n\nNotable events included the seizure of the Dagu Forts commanding the approaches to Tianjin and the boarding and capture of four Chinese destroyers by British Commander Roger Keyes. Among the foreigners besieged in Tianjin was a young American mining engineer named Herbert Hoover, who would go on to become the 31st President of the United States.\n\nThe march from Tianjin to Beijing of about 120 km included about 20,000 allied troops. On 4 August, there were approximately 70,000 Qing imperial troops and anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 Boxers along the way. The allies only encountered minor resistance, fighting battles at Beicang and Yangcun. At Yangcun, the 14th Infantry Regiment of the U.S. and British troops led the assault. The weather was a major obstacle. Conditions were extremely humid with temperatures sometimes reaching . These high temperatures and insects plagued the Allies. Soldiers dehydrated and horses died. Chinese villagers killed Allied troops who searched for wells.\n\nThe heat killed Allied soldiers, who foamed at the mouth. The tactics along the way were gruesome on either side. Allied soldiers beheaded already dead Chinese corpses, bayoneted or beheaded live Chinese civilians, and raped Chinese girls and women. Cossacks were reported to have killed Chinese civilians almost automatically and Japanese kicked a Chinese soldier to death. The Chinese responded to the Alliance's atrocities with similar acts of violence and cruelty, especially towards captured Russians. Lieutenant Smedley Butler saw the remains of two Japanese soldiers nailed to a wall, who had their tongues cut off and their eyes gouged. Lieutenant Butler was wounded during the expedition in the leg and chest, later receiving the Brevet Medal in recognition for his actions.\n\nThe international force reached Beijing on 14 August. Following the defeat of Beiyang army in the First Sino-Japanese War, the Chinese government had invested heavily in modernizing the imperial army, which was equipped with modern Mauser repeater rifles and Krupp artillery. Three modernized divisions consisting of Manchu Bannermen protected the Beijing Metropolitan region. Two of them were under the command of the anti-Boxer Prince Qing and Ronglu, while the anti-foreign Prince Duan commanded the ten-thousand-strong Hushenying, or \"Tiger Spirit Division\", which had joined the Gansu Braves and Boxers in attacking the foreigners. It was a Hushenying captain who had assassinated the German diplomat Ketteler. The Tenacious Army under Nie Shicheng received western style training under German and Russian officers in addition to their modernised weapons and uniforms. They effectively resisted the Alliance at the Battle of Tientsin before retreating and astounded the Alliance forces with the accuracy of their artillery during the siege of the Tianjin concessions (the artillery shells failed to explode upon impact due to corrupt manufacturing). The Gansu Braves under Dong Fuxiang, which some sources described as \"ill disciplined\", were armed with modern weapons but were not trained according to western drill and wore traditional Chinese uniforms. They led the defeat of the Alliance at Langfang in the Seymour Expedition and were the most ferocious in besieging the Legations in Beijing. Some Banner forces were given modernised weapons and western training, becoming the Metropolitan Banner forces, which were decimated in the fighting. Among the Manchu dead was the father of the writer Lao She.\n\nThe British won the race among the international forces to be the first to reach the besieged Legation Quarter. The U.S. was able to play a role due to the presence of U.S. ships and troops stationed in Manila since the U.S. conquest of the Philippines during the Spanish–American War and the subsequent Philippine–American War. In the U.S. military, the action in the Boxer Rebellion was known as the China Relief Expedition. United States Marines scaling the walls of Beijing is an iconic image of the Boxer Rebellion.\n\nThe British Army reached the legation quarter on the afternoon of 14 August and relieved the Legation Quarter. The Beitang was relieved on 16 August, first by Japanese soldiers and then, officially, by the French.\n\nIn the early hours of 15 August, just as the Foreign Legations were being relieved, Empress Dowager Cixi, dressed in the padded blue cotton of a farm woman, the Guangxu Emperor, and a small retinue climbed into three wooden ox carts and escaped from the city covered with rough blankets. Legend has it that the Empress Dowager then either ordered that the Guangxu Emperor's favourite concubine, Consort Zhen, be thrown down a well in the Forbidden City or tricked her into drowning herself. The journey was made all the more arduous by the lack of preparation, but the Empress Dowager insisted this was not a retreat, rather a \"tour of inspection.\" After weeks of travel, the party arrived in Xi'an in Shaanxi province, beyond protective mountain passes where the foreigners could not reach, deep in Chinese Muslim territory and protected by the Gansu Braves. The foreigners had no orders to pursue the Empress Dowager, so they decided to stay put.\n\nThe Russian Empire and the Qing Empire had maintained a long peace, starting with the Treaty of Nerchinsk in 1689, but Tsarist forces took advantage of Chinese defeats to impose the Aigun Treaty of 1858 and the Treaty of Peking of 1860 which ceded formerly Chinese territory in Manchuria to Russia, much of which is held by Russia to the present day (Primorye). The Russians aimed for control over the Amur River for navigation, and the all-weather ports of Dairen and Port Arthur in the Liaodong peninsula. The rise of Japan as an Asian power provoked Russia's anxiety, especially in light of expanding Japanese influence in Korea. Following Japan's victory in the First Sino-Japanese War of 1895, the Triple Intervention of Russia, Germany and France forced Japan to return the territory won in Liaodong, leading to a de facto Sino-Russian alliance.\n\nLocal Chinese in Manchuria were incensed at these Russian advances and began to harass Russians and Russian institutions, such as the Chinese Eastern Railway. In June 1900, the Chinese bombarded the town of Blagoveshchensk on the Russian side of the Amur. The Czar's government used the pretext of Boxer activity to move some 200,000 troops into the area to crush the Boxers. The Chinese used arson to destroy a bridge carrying a railway and a barracks on 27 July. The Boxers destroyed railways and cut lines for telegraphs and burned the Yantai mines.\n\nBy 21 September, Russian troops took Jilin and Liaodong, and by the end of the month completely occupied Manchuria, where their presence was a major factor leading to the Russo-Japanese War.\n\nThe Chinese Honghuzi bandits of Manchuria, who had fought alongside the Boxers in the war, did not stop when the Boxer rebellion was over, and continued guerilla warfare against the Russian occupation up to the Russo-Japanese war when the Russians were defeated by Japan.\n\nOrthodox, Protestant, and Catholic missionaries and their Chinese parishioners were massacred throughout northern China, some by Boxers and others by government troops and authorities. After the declaration of war on Western powers in June 1900, Yuxian, who had been named governor of Shanxi in March of that year, implemented a brutal anti-foreign and anti-Christian policy. On 9 July, reports circulated that he had executed forty-four foreigners (including women and children) from missionary families whom he had invited to the provincial capital Taiyuan under the promise to protect them. Although the purported eye witness accounts have recently been questioned as improbable, this event became a notorious symbol of Chinese anger, known as the Taiyuan Massacre. By the summer's end, more foreigners and as many as 2,000 Chinese Christians had been put to death in the province. Journalist and historical writer Nat Brandt has called the massacre of Christians in Shanxi \"the greatest single tragedy in the history of Christian evangelicalism.\"\n\nDuring the Boxer Rebellion as a whole, a total of 136 Protestant missionaries and 53 children were killed, and 47 Catholic priests and nuns. 30,000 Chinese Catholics, 2,000 Chinese Protestants, and 200 to 400 of the 700 Russian Orthodox Christians in Beijing were estimated to have been killed. Collectively, the Protestant dead were called the China Martyrs of 1900. 222 of Russian Christian Chinese Martyrs including St. Metrophanes were locally canonised as New Martyrs on 22 April 1902, after archimandrite Innocent (Fugurovsky), head of the Russian Orthodox Mission in China, solicited the Most Holy Synod to perpetuate their memory. This was the first local canonisation for more than two centuries. The Boxers went on to murder Christians across 26 prefectures.\n\nBeijing, Tianjin, and other cities in northern China were occupied for more than one year by the international expeditionary force under the command of German General Alfred Graf von Waldersee. Atrocities by foreign troops were common. French troops ravaged the countryside around Beijing on behalf of Chinese Catholics. The Americans and British paid General Yuan Shikai and his army (the Right Division) to help the Eight Nation Alliance suppress the Boxers. Yuan Shikai's forces killed tens of thousands of people in their anti Boxer campaign in Zhili Province and Shandong after the Alliance captured Beijing. Yuan operated out of Baoding during the campaign, which ended in 1902. Li Hongzhang commanded Chinese soldiers to kill \"Boxers\" to assist the foreign invaders.\n\nFrom the Chinese point of view, as well as reports from contemporary Western observers, German, Russian, and Japanese troops received the greatest criticism for their ruthlessness and willingness to wantonly execute Chinese of all ages and backgrounds, sometimes burning and killing entire village populations. The German force arrived too late to take part in the fighting, but undertook punitive expeditions to the countryside. Kaiser Wilhelm II on July 27 during departure ceremonies for the German relief force included an impromptu, but intemperate reference to the Hun invaders of continental Europe which would later be resurrected by British propaganda to mock Germany during the First World War and Second World War:\n\nOne newspaper called the aftermath of the siege a \"carnival of loot\", and others called it \"an orgy of looting\" by soldiers, civilians and missionaries. These characterisations called to mind the sacking of the Summer Palace in 1860. Each nationality accused the others of being the worst looters. An American diplomat, Herbert G. Squiers, filled several railroad cars with loot. The British Legation held loot auctions every afternoon and proclaimed, \"looting on the part of British troops was carried out in the most orderly manner.\" However, one British officer noted, \"it is one of the unwritten laws of war that a city which does not surrender at the last and is taken by storm is looted.\" For the rest of 1900–1901, the British held loot auctions everyday except Sunday in front of the main-gate to the British Legation. Many foreigners, including Sir Claude Maxwell MacDonald and Lady Ethel MacDonald and George Ernest Morrison of \"The Times\", were active bidders among the crowd. Many of these looted items ended up in Europe. The Catholic Beitang or North Cathedral was a \"salesroom for stolen property.\"\nThe American commander General Adna Chaffee banned looting by American soldiers, but the ban was ineffectual.\n\nSome, but by no means all Western missionaries took an active part in calling for retribution. To provide restitution to missionaries and Chinese Christian families whose property had been destroyed, William Ament, a missionary of American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, guided American troops through villages to punish those he suspected of being Boxers and confiscate their property. When Mark Twain read of this expedition, he wrote a scathing essay, that attacked the \"Reverend bandits of the American Board,\" especially targeting Ament, one of the most respected missionaries in China. The controversy was front-page news during much of 1901. Ament's counterpart on the distaff side was doughty British missionary Georgina Smith who presided over a neighborhood in Beijing as judge and jury.\n\nWhile one historical account reported that Japanese troops were astonished by other Alliance troops raping civilians, others noted that Japanese troops were 'looting and burning without mercy', and that Chinese 'women and girls by hundreds have committed suicide to escape a worse fate at the hands of Russian and Japanese brutes.' Roger Keyes, who commanded the British destroyer \"Fame\" and accompanied the Gaselee Expedition, noted that the Japanese had brought their own \"regimental wives\" (prostitutes) to the front to keep their soldiers from raping Chinese civilians. Thousands of Chinese women committed suicide; \"The Daily Telegraph\" journalist E. J. Dillon stated it was to avoid rape by Alliance forces, and he witnessed the mutilated corpses of Chinese women who were raped and killed by the Alliance troops. The French commander dismissed the rapes, attributing them to \"gallantry of the French soldier.\" A foreign journalist, George Lynch, said \"there are things that I must not write, and that may not be printed in England, which would seem to show that this Western civilization of ours is merely a veneer over savagery.\"\n\nMany Bannermen supported the Boxers and shared their anti-foreign sentiment. The German Minister Clemens von Ketteler was assassinated by a Manchu. Bannermen had been devastated in the First Sino-Japanese War in 1895 and Banner armies were destroyed while resisting the invasion. In the words of historian Pamela Crossley, their living conditions went \"from desperate poverty to true misery.\" When thousands of Manchus fled south from Aigun during the fighting in 1900, their cattle and horses were stolen by Russian Cossacks who then burned their villages and homes to ashes. The clan system of the Manchus in Aigun was obliterated by the despoliation of the area at the hands of the Russian invaders.\n\nUnder the lead of some highly ranked officials including Li Hongzhang, Yuan Shikai and Zhang Zhidong, several provinces in the southeast formed the Southeastern Mutual Protection during this period to avoid the further expansion of the chaos or the worsening of the situation between China and western powers. These provinces claimed to be neutral and refused to fight either the Boxers or the Eight Nation Alliance.\n\nAfter the capture of Peking by the foreign armies, some of Empress Dowager Cixi's advisers advocated that the war be carried on, arguing that China could have defeated the foreigners as it was disloyal and traitorous people within China who allowed Beijing and Tianjin to be captured by the Allies, and that the interior of China was impenetrable. They also recommended that Dong Fuxiang continue fighting. The Empress Dowager Cixi was practical, however, and decided that the terms were generous enough for her to acquiesce when she was assured of her continued reign after the war and that China would not be forced to cede any territory.\n\nOn 7 September 1901, the Qing imperial court agreed to sign the \"Boxer Protocol\" also known as Peace Agreement between the Eight-Nation Alliance and China. The protocol ordered the execution of 10 high-ranking officials linked to the outbreak and other officials who were found guilty for the slaughter of foreigners in China. Alfons Mumm (Freiherr von Schwarzenstein), Ernest Satow and Komura Jutaro signed on behalf of Germany, Britain and Japan, respectively.\n\nChina was fined war reparations of 450,000,000 taels of fine silver (≈ @ 1.2 ozt/tael) for the loss that it caused. The reparation was to be paid within 39 years, and would be 982,238,150 taels with interest (4 percent per year) included. To help meet the payment it was agreed to increase the existing tariff from an actual 3.18 percent to 5 percent, and to tax hitherto duty-free merchandise. The sum of reparation was estimated by the Chinese population (roughly 450 million in 1900), to let each Chinese pay one tael. Chinese custom income and salt tax were enlisted as guarantee of the reparation. China paid 668,661,220 taels of silver from 1901 to 1939, equivalent in 2010 to ≈US$61 billion on a purchasing power parity basis.\n\nA large portion of the reparations paid to the United States was diverted to pay for the education of Chinese students in U.S. universities under the Boxer Indemnity Scholarship Program. To prepare the students chosen for this program an institute was established to teach the English language and to serve as a preparatory school. When the first of these students returned to China they undertook the teaching of subsequent students; from this institute was born Tsinghua University. Some of the reparation due to Britain was later earmarked for a similar program.\n\nThe China Inland Mission lost more members than any other missionary agency:\n58 adults and 21 children were killed. However, in 1901, when the allied nations were demanding compensation from the Chinese government, Hudson Taylor refused to accept payment for loss of property or life in order to demonstrate the meekness and gentleness of Christ to the Chinese.\n\nThe Belgian Catholic vicar apostolic of Ordos, Msgr. Alfons Bermyn wanted foreign troops garrisoned in Inner Mongolia, but the Governor refused. Bermyn petitioned the Manchu Enming to send troops to Hetao where Prince Duan's Mongol troops and General Dong Fuxiang's Muslim troops allegedly threatened Catholics. It turned out that Bermyn had created the incident as a hoax.\n\nThe Qing government did not capitulate to all the foreign demands. The Manchu governor Yuxian, was executed, but the imperial court refused to execute the Han Chinese General Dong Fuxiang, although he had also encouraged the killing of foreigners during the rebellion. Empress Dowager Cixi intervened when the Alliance demanded him executed and Dong was only cashiered and sent back home. Instead, Dong lived a life of luxury and power in \"exile\" in his home province of Gansu. Upon Dong's death in 1908, all honors which had been stripped from him were restored and he was given a full military burial.\n\nThe European great powers finally ceased their ambitions of colonizing China having learned from the Boxer rebellions that the best way to deal with China was through the ruling dynasty, rather than directly with the Chinese people (a sentiment embodied in the adage: \"The people are afraid of officials, the officials are afraid of foreigners, and the foreigners are afraid of the people\" (), and even briefly assisted the Qing in their war against the Japanese to prevent a Japanese domination in the region.\n\nConcurrently, this period marks the ceding of European great power interference in Chinese affairs, with the Japanese replacing the Europeans as the dominant power for their lopsided involvement in the war against the Boxers as well as their victory in the First Sino-Japanese War. With the toppling of the Qing that followed and the rise of the Nationalist Kuomintang, European sway within China was reduced to symbolic status. After taking Manchuria in 1905, Japan came to dominate Asian affairs both militarily and culturally with many of the Chinese scholars also educated in Japan with the most prominent example being Sun Yat-Sen who would later found the Nationalist movement of the Kuomintang in China.\n\nIn October 1900, Russia occupied the provinces of Manchuria, a move which threatened Anglo-American hopes of maintaining what remained of China's territorial integrity and the country's openness to commerce under the Open Door Policy.\n\nJapan's clash with Russia over Liaodong and other provinces in eastern Manchuria, due to the Russian refusal to honour the terms of the Boxer protocol which called for their withdrawal, led to the Russo-Japanese War when two years of negotiations broke down in February 1904. The Russian Lease of the Liaodong (1898) was confirmed. Russia was ultimately defeated by an increasingly confident Japan.\n\nBesides the compensation, Empress Dowager Cixi reluctantly started some reforms despite her previous views. Under her reforms known as the New Policies started in 1901, the imperial examination system for government service was eliminated and as a result the system of education through Chinese classics was replaced with a European liberal system that led to a university degree. Along with the formation of new military and police organisations, the reforms also simplified central bureaucracy and made a start on revamping taxation policies. After the deaths of Cixi and the Guangxu Emperor in 1908, the prince regent Zaifeng (Prince Chun), the Guangxu Emperor's brother, launched further reforms.\n\nThe effect on China was a weakening of the dynasty and its national defense capabilities. The government structure was temporarily sustained by the Europeans. Behind the international conflict, it further deepened internal ideological differences between northern-Chinese anti-foreign royalists and southern-Chinese anti-Qing revolutionists. This scenario in the last years of the Qing dynasty gradually escalated into a chaotic warlord era in which the most powerful northern warlords were hostile towards the revolutionaries in the south who overthrew the Qing monarchy in 1911. The rivalry was not fully resolved until the northern warlords were defeated by the Kuomintang's 1926–28 Northern Expedition. Prior to the final defeat of the Boxer Rebellion, all anti-Qing movements in the previous century, such as the Taiping Rebellion, had been successfully suppressed by the Qing.\n\nHistorian Walter LaFeber has argued that President William McKinley's decision to send 5,000 American troops to quell the rebellion marks \"the origins of modern presidential war powers\":\n\nArthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. concurred, writing that:\n\nIn the Second Sino-Japanese War, when the Japanese asked the Muslim general Ma Hongkui to defect and become head of a Muslim puppet state, he responded that his relatives had been killed during the Battle of Peking, including his uncle Ma Fulu. Since Japanese troops made up the majority of the Alliance forces there would be no cooperation with the Japanese.\n\nFrom the beginning, views differed as to whether the Boxers were better seen as anti-imperialist, patriotic, and proto-nationalist or as \"uncivilized\", irrational, and futile opponents of inevitable change. The historian Joseph Esherick comments that \"confusion about the Boxer Uprising is not simply a matter of popular misconceptions\", for \"there is no major incident in China's modern history on which the range of professional interpretation is as great\".\n\nChinese liberals such as Hu Shi often condemned the Boxers for their irrationality and barbarity. Dr. Sun Yat-sen, the founding father of the Republic of China and of the Nationalist Party at first believed that the Boxer Movement was stirred up by the Qing government's rumors, which \"caused confusion among the populace\", and delivered \"scathing criticism\" of the Boxers' \"anti-foreignism and obscurantism\". Sun praised the Boxers for their \"spirit of resistance\" but called them \"bandits\". Students shared an ambivalent attitude to the Boxers, stating that while the uprising originated from the \"ignorant and stubborn people of the interior areas\", their beliefs were \"brave and righteous\", and could \"be transformed into a moving force for independence\". After the fall of the Qing dynasty in 1911, nationalist Chinese became more sympathetic to the Boxers. In 1918 Sun praised their fighting spirit and said the Boxers were courageous and fearless, fighting to the death against the Alliance armies, specifically the Battle of Yangcun. The leader of the New Culture Movement, Chen Duxiu, forgave the \"barbarism of the Boxer... given the crime foreigners committed in China\", and contended that it was those \"subservient to the foreigners\" that truly \"deserved our resentment\".\n\nIn other countries, views of the Boxers were complex and contentious. Mark Twain said that \"the Boxer is a patriot. He loves his country better than he does the countries of other people. I wish him success\". The Russian writer Leo Tolstoy also praised the Boxers. He accused Nicholas II of Russia and Wilhelm II of Germany of being chiefly responsible for the lootings, rapes, murders and the \"Christian brutality\" of the Russians and other western troops. The Russian revolutionary Vladimir Lenin mocked the Russian government's claim that it was protecting Christian civilization: \"Poor Imperial Government! So Christianly unselfish, and yet so unjustly maligned! Several years ago it unselfishly seized Port Arthur, and now it is unselfishly seizing Manchuria; it has unselfishly flooded the frontier provinces of China with hordes of contractors, engineers, and officers, who, by their conduct, have roused to indignation even the Chinese, known for their docility.\" The Indian Bengali Hindu Rabindranath Tagore attacked the European colonialists. A number of Indian soldiers in the British Indian Army agreed that the Boxers were right and the British stole from the Temple of Heaven a bell, which was given back to China by the Indian military in 1994.\n\nEven some American churchmen spoke out in support of the Boxers. The evangelist Rev. Dr. George F. Pentecost said that the Boxer uprising was a \"patriotic movement to expel the 'foreign devils' — just that — the foreign devils\". Suppose, he said, the great nations of Europe were to “put their fleets together, came over here, seize Portland, move on down to Boston, then New York, then Philadelphia, and so on down the Atlantic Coast and around the Gulf of Galveston? Suppose they took possession of these port cities, drove our people into the hinterland, built great warehouses and factories, brought in a body of dissolute agents, and calmly notified our people that henceforward they would manage the commerce of the country? Would we not have a Boxer movement to drive those foreign European Christian devils out of our country?\"\n\nThe Russian newspaper \"Amurskii Krai\" criticized the killing of innocent civilians, charging that \"restraint\" \"civilization\" and \"culture\" instead of \"racial hatred\" and \"destruction\" would have been more becoming of a \"civilized Christian nation\". The paper asked \"What shall we tell civilized people? We shall have to say to them: 'Do not consider us as brothers anymore. We are mean and terrible people; we have killed those who hid at our place, who sought our protection'\".\n\nThe events also left a longer impact. The historian Robert Bickers found that for the British in China the Boxer rising served as the \"equivalent of the Indian 'mutiny'\" and came to represent the Yellow Peril. Later events, he adds, such as the Chinese Nationalist Revolution of the 1920s and even the activities of the Red Guards of the 1960s, were perceived as being in the shadow of the Boxers.\n\nIn Taiwan and Hong Kong, history textbooks often present the Boxer as irrational. But in the People's Republic of China, government textbooks described the Boxer movement as an anti-imperialist, patriotic peasant movement whose failure was due to the lack of leadership from the modern working class, and described the international army as an invading force. In recent decades, however, large-scale projects of village interviews and explorations of archival sources have led historians in China to take a more nuanced view. Some non-Chinese scholars, such as Joseph Esherick, have seen the movement as anti-imperialist; while others hold that the concept \"nationalistic\" is anachronistic because the Chinese nation had not been formed and the Boxers were more concerned with regional issues. Paul Cohen's recent study includes a survey of \"the Boxers as myth\", showing how their memory was used in changing ways in 20th-century China from the New Culture Movement to the Cultural Revolution.\n\nIn recent years the Boxer question has been debated in the People's Republic of China. In 1998, the critical scholar Wang Yi argued that the Boxers had features in common with the extremism of the Cultural Revolution. Both events had the external goal of \"liquidating all harmful pests\" and the domestic goal of \"eliminating bad elements of all descriptions\" and this relation was rooted in \"cultural obscurantism\". Wang explained to his readers the changes in attitudes towards the Boxers from the condemnation of the May Fourth Movement to the approval expressed by Mao Zedong during the Cultural Revolution. In 2006 Yuan Weishi, a professor of philosophy at Zhongshan University in Guangzhou, wrote that the Boxers by their \"criminal actions brought unspeakable suffering to the nation and its people! These are all facts that everybody knows, and it is a national shame that the Chinese people cannot forget\". Yuan charged that history text books had been lacking in neutrality in presenting the Boxer Uprising as a \"magnificent feat of patriotism\", and not presenting the view that the majority of the Boxer rebels were violent. In response, some labeled Yuan Weishi a \"traitor\" (Hanjian).\n\nThe first reports coming from China in 1898 referred to the village activists as \"Yihequan\", (Wade–Giles: I Ho Ch'uan). The first known use of the term \"Boxer\" was September 1899 in a letter from missionary Grace Newton in Shandong. It appears from context that \"Boxer\" was a known term by that time, possibly coined by the Shandong missionaries Arthur H. Smith and Henry Porter. Smith says in his book of 1902 that the name\nI Ho Ch'uan... literally denotes the 'Fists' (Ch'uan) of Righteousness (or Public) (I) Harmony (Ho), in apparent allusion to the strength of united force which was to be put forth. As the Chinese phrase 'fists and feet' signifies boxing and wrestling, there appeared to be no more suitable term for the adherents of the sect than 'Boxers,' a designation first used by one or two missionary correspondents of foreign journals in China, and later universally accepted on account of the difficulty of coining a better one.\nOn 6 June 1900 the \"Times\" of London used the term \"rebellion\" in quotation marks, presumably to indicate their view that the rising was in fact instigated by Empress Dowager Cixi. The historian Lanxin Xiang refers to the \"so called 'Boxer Rebellion,'\" and explains that \"while peasant rebellion was nothing new in Chinese history, a war against the world's most powerful states was.\" The name \"Boxer Rebellion\", concludes Joseph Esherick, another recent historian, is truly a \"misnomer\", for the Boxers \"never rebelled against the Manchu rulers of China and their Qing dynasty\" and the \"most common Boxer slogan, throughout the history of the movement, was \"support the Qing, destroy the Foreign.\" He adds that only after the movement was suppressed by the Allied Intervention did both the foreign powers and influential Chinese officials realize that the Qing would have to remain as government of China in order to maintain order and collect taxes to pay the indemnity. Therefore, in order to save face for the Empress Dowager and the imperial court, the argument was made that the Boxers were rebels and that support from the imperial court came only from a few Manchu princes. Esherick concludes that the origin of the term \"rebellion\" was \"purely political and opportunistic\", but it has shown a remarkable staying power, particularly in popular accounts.\n\nOther recent Western works refer to the \"Boxer Movement\", \"Boxer War\" or Yihetuan Movement, while Chinese studies use 义和团运动 (Yihetuan yundong), that is, \"Yihetuan Movement.\" In his discussion of the general and legal implications of the terminology involved, the German scholar Thoralf Klein notes that all of the terms, including the Chinese ones, are \"posthumous interpretations of the conflict.\" He argues that each term, whether it be \"uprising\", \"rebellion\" or \"movement\" implies a different definition of the conflict. Even the term \"Boxer War\", which has become widely used by recent scholars in the West, raises questions, as war was never declared, and Allied troops behaved as a punitive expedition in colonial style, not in a declared war with legal constraints. The Allies took advantage of the fact that China had not signed \"The Laws and Customs of War on Land\", a key document at the 1899 Hague Peace Conference. They argued that China had violated its provisions but themselves ignored them. \n\nBy 1900, many new forms of media had matured, including illustrated newspapers and magazines, postcards, broadsides and advertisements, all of which presented images of the Boxers and of the invading armies. The rebellion was covered in the foreign illustrated press by artists and photographers. Paintings and prints were also published including Japanese wood-blocks. In the following decades, the Boxers were a constant subject for comment. A sampling includes:\n\n\nIn addition to the books listed under References, general accounts can be found in such textbooks as Jonathan Spence, \"In Search of Modern China\", pp. 230–235; Keith Schoppa, \"Revolution and Its Past\", pp. 118–123; and Immanuel Hsu, Ch 16, \"The Boxer Uprising\", in \"The Rise of Modern China\" (1990).\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "36615084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36615084", "title": "Brian McGuinness", "text": "Brian McGuinness\n\nBrian McGuinness (born Bernard Francis McGuinness, 22 October 1927, in Wrexham, United Kingdom) is a British philosopher.\n\nFormerly a pupil of RM Hare, McGuinness has become a noted expert in the works of Ludwig Wittgenstein. McGuinness was a Fellow and Tutor at Queen's College in Oxford University from 1953 to 1988, and took a post at the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study. Since 1990, he is a professor at the University of Siena, Italy. From 1990 to 1993, he was director of the faculty of philosophy and social sciences of this university. During his time at Queen's, he was an invited speaker at the Oxford Socratic Club, speaking with J. D. Mabbott on \"The Problem of Free Will\" on Nov. 14, 1955.\n\nHis son, Paddy McGuinness, is a British civil servant who is currently the Deputy National Security Adviser for Intelligence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4111602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4111602", "title": "Brian Orend", "text": "Brian Orend\n\nBrian Orend is the Director of International Studies and a professor of Philosophy at the University of Waterloo in Waterloo, Ontario. \n\nOrend's works focus on just war theory and human rights. He is most well known for his discussions of jus post bellum (justice after war), which deals with the termination phase of war. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "50177654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50177654", "title": "Dieter Misgeld", "text": "Dieter Misgeld\n\n__notoc__\n\nDieter Misgeld is a retired professor in the department of Theory and Policy Studies at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE), University of Toronto. He is known for his research on social theory, human rights, political philosophy, hermeneutics and the philosophy of Jürgen Habermas and Hans-Georg Gadamer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11563109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11563109", "title": "Euphoria", "text": "Euphoria\n\nEuphoria () is the experience (or affect) of pleasure or excitement and intense feelings of well-being and happiness. Certain natural rewards and social activities, such as aerobic exercise, laughter, listening to or making music, and dancing, can induce a state of euphoria. Euphoria is also a symptom of certain neurological or neuropsychiatric disorders, such as mania. Romantic love and components of the human sexual response cycle are also associated with the induction of euphoria. Certain drugs, many of which are addictive, can cause euphoria, which at least partially motivates their recreational use.\n\nHedonic hotspots – i.e., the pleasure centers of the brain – are functionally linked. Activation of one hotspot results in the recruitment of the others. Inhibition of one hotspot results in the blunting of the effects of activating another hotspot. Therefore, the simultaneous activation of every hedonic hotspot within the reward system is believed to be necessary for generating the sensation of an intense euphoria.\n\nThe word \"euphoria\" is derived from the Ancient Greek terms : εὖ \"eu\" meaning \"well\" and φέρω \"pherō\" meaning \"to bear\". It is semantically opposite to dysphoria.\n\nA 1706 English dictionary defines euphoria as \"the well bearing of the Operation of a Medicine, i.e., when the patient finds himself eas'd or reliev'd by it\".\n\nIn the 1860s, the English physician Thomas Laycock described euphoria as the feeling of bodily well-being and hopefulness; he noted its misplaced presentation in the final stage of some terminal illnesses and attributed such euphoria to neurological dysfunction. Sigmund Freud's 1884 monograph \"Über Coca\" described (his own) consumption of cocaine producing \"the normal euphoria of a healthy person\", while about 1890 the German neuropsychiatrist Carl Wernicke lectured about the \"abnormal euphoria\" in patients with mania.\n\nA 1903 article in \"The Boston Daily Globe\" refers to euphoria as \"pleasant excitement\" and \"the sense of ease and well-being\". In 1920 \"Popular Science\" magazine described euphoria as \"a high sounding name\" meaning \"feeling fit\": normally making life worth living, motivating drug use, and ill formed in certain mental illnesses. Robert S. Woodworth's 1921 textbook \"Psychology: A study of mental life\", describes euphoria as an organic state which is the opposite of fatigue, and \"means about the same as feeling good.\"\n\nIn 1940 \"The Journal of Psychology\" defined euphoria as a \"state of general well being ... and pleasantly toned feeling.\" A decade later, finding \"ordinary feelings of well being\" difficult to evaluate, American addiction researcher Harris Isbell redefined euphoria as behavioral changes and objective signs typical of morphine. However, in 1957 British pharmacologist D. A. Cahal did not regard opioid euphoria as medically undesirable but an effect which \"enhance[s] the value of a major analgesic.\" The 1977 edition of \"A Concise Encyclopaedia of Psychiatry\" called euphoria \"a mood of contentment and well-being,\" with pathologic associations when used in a psychiatric context. As a sign of cerebral disease, it was described as bland and out of context, representing an inability to experience negative emotion.\n\nIn the 21st century, euphoria is \"generally\" defined as a state of great happiness, well-being and excitement, which may be normal, or abnormal and inappropriate when associated with psychoactive drugs, manic states, or brain disease or injury.\n\nHedonic hotspots – i.e., the pleasure centers of the brain – are functionally linked. Activation of one hotspot results in the recruitment of the others. Inhibition of one hotspot results in the blunting of the effects of activating another hotspot. Therefore, the simultaneous activation of every hedonic hotspot within the reward system is believed to be necessary for generating the sensation of euphoria.\n\nMany different types of stimuli can induce euphoria, including psychoactive drugs, natural rewards, and social activities. Affective disorders such as unipolar mania or bipolar disorder can involve euphoria as a symptom.\n\nContinuous physical exercise, particularly aerobic exercise, can induce a state of euphoria; for example, distance running is often associated with a \"runner's high\", which is a pronounced state of exercise-induced euphoria. Exercise is known to affect dopamine signaling in the nucleus accumbens, producing euphoria as a result, through increased biosynthesis of three particular neurochemicals: anandamide (an endocannabinoid), β-endorphin (an endogenous opioid), and phenethylamine (a trace amine and amphetamine analog).\n\nEuphoria can occur as a result of dancing to music, music-making, and listening to emotionally arousing music. Neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that the reward system plays a central role in mediating music-induced pleasure. Pleasurable emotionally arousing music strongly increases dopamine neurotransmission in the dopaminergic pathways that project to the striatum (i.e., the mesolimbic pathway and nigrostriatal pathway). Approximately 5% of the population experiences a phenomenon termed \"musical anhedonia\", in which individuals do not experience pleasure from listening to emotionally arousing music despite having the ability to perceive the intended emotion that is conveyed in passages of music.\n\nThe various stages of copulation may also be described as inducing euphoria in some people. Various analysts have described either the entire act of copulation, the moments leading to orgasm, or the orgasm itself as the pinnacle of human pleasure or euphoria.\n\nA euphoriant is a type of psychoactive drug which tends to induce euphoria. Most euphoriants are addictive drugs due to their reinforcing properties and ability to activate the brain's reward system.\n\nDopaminergic stimulants like amphetamine, methamphetamine, cocaine, MDMA, and methylphenidate are euphoriants. Nicotine is a parasympathetic stimulant that acts as a mild euphoriant in some people.\n\nSome textbooks state that caffeine is a mild euphoriant, others state that it is not a euphoriant, and one states that it is and is not a euphoriant.\n\nChewing areca nut (seeds from the \"Areca catechu\" palm) with slaked lime (calcium hydroxide) – a common practice in South- and Southeast Asia – produces stimulant effects and euphoria. The major psychoactive ingredients – arecoline (a muscarinic receptor partial agonist) and arecaidine (a GABA reuptake inhibitor) – are responsible for the euphoric effect.\n\nCertain depressants can produce euphoria; some of the euphoriant drugs in this class include alcohol in moderate doses, , and ketamine.\n\nSome barbiturates and benzodiazepines may cause euphoria. Euphoriant effects are determined by the drug's speed of onset, increasing dose, and with intravenous administration. Barbiturates more likely to cause euphoria include amobarbital, secobarbital and pentobarbital. Benzodiazepines more likely to cause euphoria are flunitrazepam, alprazolam and clonazepam. Benzodiazepines also tend to enhance opioid-induced euphoria.\n\nPregabalin induces dose-dependent euphoria. Occurring in a small percentage of individuals at recommended doses, euphoria is increasingly frequent at supratherapeutic doses (or with intravenous- or nasal administration). At doses five times the maximum recommended, intense euphoria is reported. Another GABA analogue, gabapentin, may induce euphoria. Characterized as opioid-like but less intense, it may occur at supratherapeutic doses, or in combination with other drugs, such as opioids or alcohol. Ethosuximide and perampanel can also produce euphoria at therapeutic doses.\n\nµ-Opioid receptor agonists are a set of euphoriants that include drugs such as heroin, morphine, codeine, oxycodone, and fentanyl. By contrast, κ-opioid receptor agonists, like the endogenous neuropeptide \"dynorphin\", are known to cause dysphoria, a mood state opposite to euphoria that involves feelings of profound discontent.\n\nCannabinoid receptor 1 agonists are a group of euphoriants that includes certain plant-based cannabinoids (e.g., THC from the cannabis plant), endogenous cannabinoids (e.g., anandamide), and synthetic cannabinoids.\n\nCertain gases, like nitrous oxide (NO, aka \"laughing gas\"), can induce euphoria when inhaled.\n\nAcute exogenous glucocorticoid administration is known to produce euphoria, but this effect is not observed with long-term exposure.\n\nFasting has been associated with improved mood, well-being, and sometimes euphoria. Various mechanisms have been proposed and possible applications in treating depression considered.\n\nAsphyxiation initially produces an extreme feeling of euphoria leading some people to intentionally induce temporary asphyxiation. Erotic asphyxiation typically employs strangulation to produce euphoria which enhances masturbation and orgasm. The choking game, prevalent in adolescents, uses brief hypoxia in the brain to achieve euphoria. Strangulation, or hyperventilation followed by breath holding are commonly used to achieve the effects. Accidental deaths occur from both practices but are often mislabeled as suicide.\n\nEuphoria is also strongly associated with both hypomania and mania, mental states characterized by a pathological heightening of mood, which may be either euphoric or irritable, in addition to other symptoms, such as pressured speech, flight of ideas, and grandiosity.\n\nAlthough hypomania and mania are syndromes with multiple etiologies (that is, ones that may arise from any number of conditions), they are most commonly seen in bipolar disorder, a psychiatric illness characterized by alternating periods of mania and depression.\n\nEuphoria may occur during auras of seizures typically originating in the temporal lobe, but affecting the anterior insular cortex. This euphoria is symptomatic of a rare syndrome called ecstatic seizures, often also involving mystical experiences. Euphoria (or more commonly dysphoria) may also occur in periods between epileptic seizures. This condition, \"interictal dysphoric disorder\", is considered an atypical affective disorder. Persons who experience feelings of depression or anxiety between or before seizures occasionally experience euphoria afterwards.\n\nSome persons experience euphoria in the prodrome – hours to days before the onset – of a migraine headache. Similarly, a euphoric state occurs in some persons following the migraine episode.\n\nEuphoria sometimes occurs in persons with multiple sclerosis as the illness progresses. This euphoria is part of a syndrome originally called \"euphoria sclerotica,\" which typically includes disinhibition and other symptoms of cognitive and behavioral dysfunction.\n\n"}
{"id": "14310137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14310137", "title": "FSTAT (software)", "text": "FSTAT (software)\n\nFSTAT is a computer program to estimate and test gene diversities and statistics. The program computes Nei and Weir & Cockerham families, estimators of gene diversities and F-statistics.\n\nThe software was developed by Jérôme Goudet of the Department of Ecology & Evolution at the University of Lausanne. It was last updated on February, 2002, with version 2.9.3.2. It operates on DOS and Microsoft Windows Operating systems\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11436221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11436221", "title": "Fragmentalism", "text": "Fragmentalism\n\nFragmentalism is a view that holds that the world consists of individual and independent objects. The term contends that the world is indeed composed of separable parts, and that it is chiefly knowable through the study of these component parts, rather than through wholes. It therefore stands opposed to holistic interpretations of phenomena.\n\"The Fragmentalists carved the universe up into smaller and smaller pieces until they reached such a fine level of subdivision that they could no longer observe the pieces directly.\" (Stewart & Cohen, p.198) \"As the tale of the Fragmentalists demonstrates, reductionist science usually looks for a mathematical equation, formula, or process that describes general features of the universe.\" (Stewart & Cohen, p.200)\n\nFragmentalism has also been defined as \"the notion that knowledge is a growing collection of substantiated facts or \"nuggets of truth.\"\" Anti-realists use the term fragmentalism in arguments that the world does not exist of separable entities, instead consisting of wholes. For example, advocates of this position declare that: The linear deterministic approach to nature and technology promoted a fragmented perception of reality, and a loss of the ability to foresee, to adequately evaluate, in all their complexity, global crises in ecology, civilization and education.\nThis term is usually applied to reductionist modes of thought, frequently with the related pejorative term of \"scientism\". This usage is popular amongst some ecological activists: There is a need now to move away from scientism and the ideology of cause-and-effect determinism toward a radical empiricism, such as William James proposed, as an epistemology of science. These perspectives are not new and in the early twentieth century, William James noted that rationalist science emphasized what he termed fragmentation and disconnection.\nAn alternative usage of this term is in cognitive psychology. Here, George Kelly developed \"constructive alternativism\" as a form of personal construct psychology, this provided an alternative to what he saw as \"accumulative fragmentalism\". In this theory, knowledge is seen as the construction of successful mental models of the exterior world, rather than the accumulation of independent \"nuggets of truth\".\n\nThe term also has ancillary uses in education, in design theory,\nand environmentalism, as well as in healthcare and business management.\n\nThe term has been used in politics, in anthropology, in international development and in ecological economics. The term has also been used in Cultural Studies and in history\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4066710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4066710", "title": "Frank Knopfelmacher", "text": "Frank Knopfelmacher\n\nFrank Knopfelmacher (Vienna, 3 February 1923 – Melbourne, 17 May 1995), was a Czech Jew, who migrated to Australia in 1955 and became a psychology lecturer and anticommunist political commentator at the University of Melbourne. He was embroiled in virulent political controversies during the Vietnam War-era, the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nHe was born into an upper-middle-class Czech Jewish family in Vienna and enjoyed a happy childhood until the Anschluss, the annexation of Austria in 1938. Realising the personal danger, he fled the country in November 1939 with other members of a Zionist youth group, to join a kibbutz in Palestine. In January 1942 he joined the Communist Party and spent the remainder of World War II as a member of the Free Czech Forces, attached to the British Army. The family that he had left in Vienna all perished in the Holocaust.\n\nOnce Prague, where he had returned in 1945, had been taken over by the Communists. Reading Arthur Koestler's \"Darkness at Noon\" had soured him from them, and he used money from his family estate to bribe officials into letting him flee to England. He thereafter detested the Soviet Union and continued to revere the man Karl Marx, whom, as late as July 1983, he defended, in a \"Quadrant\" article).\n\nKnopfelmacher completed a doctorate in philosophy and psychology at the University of Bristol. In 1955, he moved to Melbourne and took up a lectureship at University of Melbourne's Psychology Department.\n\nFew outside professional circles had heard of him until 1965, when he applied and was approved for a post in political philosophy at the University of Sydney but had his appointment blocked, in what became a front-page \"cause célèbre\", by the University Senate. \n\nThe Senate considered Knopfelmacher's published criticisms of Moscow, and its apologists, to be unduly strong meat. He had written of Melbourne leftists that \"like rats, they wish to operate in the dark\" (\"Twentieth Century\" magazine, Volume 18, 1964). Those firmly supporting him included Sydney philosopher David Malet Armstrong, who called Knopfelmacher \"a man fatally ahead of his time by a few years. A short time afterwards academic rebels were saying pretty much anything they liked, how they liked, about their opponents. If anyone tried to censure them or impede their careers as a result of this, the shouts that their academic freedom had been violated were deafening. To Knopfelmacher, however... Saki's saying applied: it is the first Christian martyr who gets the hungriest lion.\"\n\nA close associate, Bob Santamaria, stated (in his 1969 book \"Point of View\") that, compared with Knopfelmacher's opponents, \"Pontius Pilate was an amateur!\". \n\nDuring the late 1960s Knopfelmacher (still lecturing at Melbourne University) became de facto academic leader of those, usually associated with the Santamaria-controlled Peace With Freedom group, who favoured continuing Australian military involvement in the Vietnam War. He became a strong proponent of controversial drive for Australian conscription and the method of conscription by lottery. \n\nWhen, in 1972, Australia's involvement in the Vietnam War ended (with the election of the Whitlam government), Knopfelmacher's long-standing intellectual unpredictability became more pronounced. He turned vehemently against Santamaria. In \"The Age\" on 7 April 1984, he likened Santamaria's treatment of trade-union opponents to Joseph Stalin's treatment of Trotskyists. The previous year (\"Quadrant\", October 1983), he had directed some of his most sarcastic prose against Santamaria's supporters among conservative Catholic activists.\n\nHis self-contradictions end there. In 1977, he had proclaimed, in an article in the shortlived Sydney magazine \"Nation Review\", that \"Australia is a deeply racist nation\" and lauded Indochinese refugee arrivals, viewing their acceptance by the immigration authorities as a debt of honour that Australia owed to its defeated allies. Within five years he executed a complete \"volte-face\" in condemning multiculturalism in sharp terms and calling it an \"ethnic cauldron\" (\"The Bulletin\", 24 March 1981) and \"a banana republic of squabbling and mutually resentful expatriated mini-cultures, each with its own special bunch of ethnic ... führers\" (Robert Manne [ed.], \"The New Conservatism in Australia\", St Lucia, Queensland, 1982). From 1979, he denounced (notably in letters to Britain's \"Encounter\" magazine) John Bennett, the secretary of the Victorian Council for Civil Liberties, for disseminating Holocaust denial literature. Yet by 1989 he was arguing vituperatively with Jews who publicly advocated a national war crimes statute. A further issue which divided him from other Australian Jews was multiculturalism, which he described as being a racket, an industry scrambling for government grants.\n\nFor all his admiration of Koestler and George Orwell, Knopfelmacher wrote far less than either man, and his hardcover bibliography amounted to one 1968 reflection, \"Intellectuals and Politics\". (A promised full-length memoir remains in manuscript, but a brief account of his political education appeared in the 1981 anthology \"Twenty-Five Years of 'Quadrant\"'.) His protracted, usually free-wheeling, invariably slanderous late-night telephone monologues, visited alike upon associates and, more often antagonists, retained a mythic status for decades among Australian intellectuals, not least for their superabundant four-letter words, which evoked the heyday of Kenneth Tynan and Berkeley's Filthy Speech Movement. (The monologues, if attempted today, would now be actionable under Victoria's anti-stalking laws.)\n\nHaving in his old age revived his long-defunct friendship with Santamaria, who, from the early 1990s, deliberately sought reconciliations with ex-Cabinet Minister Clyde Cameron and other erstwhile foes, Knopfelmacher died after incurring severe injuries in a road accident following a meeting with Václav Havel. Obituarists likened him to Primo Levi and to Samuel Johnson.\n\nHis first wife, fellow refugee Jarmila \"Jacka\" Pick, whom he had married in 1944, succumbed in 1968 to an especially cruel and protracted form of multiple sclerosis. In 1970, Knopfelmacher wed Australian teacher Susan Robinson; the couple had two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29590262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29590262", "title": "Frederick G. Lawrence", "text": "Frederick G. Lawrence\n\nFrederick G. Lawrence is an American hermeneutic philosopher and theologian, and a specialist in Bernard Lonergan, teaching in the Department of Theology at Boston College, Boston, USA.\n\nFred Lawrence (as he is popularly known) is married to Sue Lawrence. He has been running the annual Lonergan Workshop at Boston College for many years, and is editor of \"Lonergan Workshop\", which publishes the proceedings. He also convened the First and Second International Lonergan Conferences at Rome (2001) and Toronto (2004).\n\nHe was a student of Bernard Lonergan at the Gregorian University, Rome, and is today one of the foremost interpreters of Lonergan's thought and an acknowledged hermeneutical philosopher in his own right.\n\nHe did his PhD on the 'unlikely topic' of the hermeneutical circle in the thought of Gadamer and Lonergan. The thesis had the unique distinction of being appreciated by both thinkers. Unfortunately, it has still to be published, though a copy is available at the Lonergan Centre, Boston College, and in microfilm.\n\nHe was a personal friend of both Gadamer and Lonergan, and upon his invitation, Gadamer came several semesters to Boston College.\n\nIn 2007, 6–8 September, a conference on \"Hermeneutics, Postmodernism, Relativism\" was held in honour of Fred Lawrence at , Nashik, India. Lawrence was scheduled to participate, but in the end could not for reasons of health; he, however, did contribute four papers outlining the contributions of Heidegger, Gadamer and Lonergan to the twentieth century hermeneutic revolution. The papers were published by .\n\nIn 2016, M. Shawn Copeland and Jeremy D. Wilkins published \"Grace and Friendship: Theological Essays in Honor of Fred Lawrence, from his grateful students,\" with a Foreword Tribute to Fred and Sue by Frederick E. Crowe, S.J.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "903063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903063", "title": "Gerd Gigerenzer", "text": "Gerd Gigerenzer\n\nGerd Gigerenzer (born September 3, 1947, Wallersdorf, Germany) is a German psychologist who has studied the use of bounded rationality and heuristics in decision making. Gigerenzer is director emeritus of the Center for Adaptive Behavior and Cognition (ABC) at the Max Planck Institute for Human Development and director of the Harding Center for Risk Literacy, both in Berlin, Germany.\n\nGigerenzer investigates how humans make inferences about their world with limited time and knowledge. He proposes that, in an uncertain world, probability theory is not sufficient; people also use smart heuristics, that is, rules of thumb. He conceptualizes rational decisions in terms of the \"adaptive toolbox\" (the repertoire of heuristics an individual or institution has) and the ability to choose a good heuristics for the task at hand. A heuristic is called ecologically rational to the degree that it is adapted to the structure of an environment.\n\nGigerenzer argues that heuristics are not irrational or always second-best to optimization, as the accuracy-effort trade-off view assumes, in which heuristics are seen as short-cuts that trade less effort for less accuracy. In contrast, his and associated researchers' studies have identified situations in which \"less is more\", that is, where heuristics make more accurate decisions with less effort. This contradicts the traditional view that more information is always better or at least can never hurt if it is free. Less-is-more effects have been shown experimentally, analytically, and by computer simulations.\n\nGigerenzer received his PhD from the University of Munich in 1977 and became a professor of psychology there the same year. In 1984 he moved to the University of Konstanz and in 1990 to the University of Salzburg. From 1992 to 1995 he was Professor of Psychology at the University of Chicago and has been the John M. Olin Distinguished Visiting Professor, School of Law at the University of Virginia. In 1995 he became director of the Max Planck Institute for Psychological Research in Munich. Since 2008 he has been at the Harding Center for Risk Literacy in Berlin.\n\nHe is also Batten Fellow at the Darden Business School, University of Virginia, and Fellow of the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina.\n\nWith Daniel Goldstein he first theorized the recognition heuristic and the take-the-best heuristic. They proved analytically conditions under which semi-ignorance (lack of recognition) can lead to better inferences than with more knowledge. These results were experimentally confirmed in many experiments, e.g., by showing that semi-ignorant people who rely on recognition are as good as or better than the ATP Rankings and experts at predicting the outcomes of the Wimbledon tennis tournaments. Similarly, decisions by experienced experts (e.g., police, professional burglars, airport security) were found to follow the take-the-best heuristic rather than weight and add all information, while inexperienced students tend to do the latter. A third class of heuristics, Fast-And-Frugal trees, are designed for categorization and are used for instance in emergency units to predict heart attacks, and model bail decisions made by magistrates in London courts. In such cases, the risks are not knowable and professionals hence face uncertainty. To better understand the logic of Fast-And-Frugal trees and other heuristics, Gigerenzer and his colleagues use the strategy of mapping its concepts onto those of well-understood optimization theories, such as signal-detection theory.\n\nA critic of the work of Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, Gigerenzer argues that heuristics should not lead us to conceive of human thinking as riddled with irrational cognitive biases, but rather to conceive rationality as an adaptive tool that is not identical to the rules of formal logic or the probability calculus. He and his collaborators have theoretically and experimentally shown that many so-called cognitive fallacies are better understood as adaptive responses to a world of uncertainty—such as the conjunction fallacy, the base rate fallacy, and overconfidence.\n\nThe basic idea of the adaptive toolbox is that different domains of thought require different specialized cognitive mechanisms instead of one universal strategy. The analysis of the adaptive toolbox and its evolution is descriptive research with the goal of specifying the core cognitive capacities (such as recognition memory) and the heuristics that exploit these (such as the recognition heuristic).\n\nAlongside his research on heuristics, Gigerenzer investigates risk communication in situations where risks can actually be calculated or precisely estimated. He has developed an ecological approach to risk communication where the key is the match between cognition and the presentation of the information in the environment. For instance, lay people as well as professionals often have problems making Bayesian inferences, typically committing what has been called the base-rate fallacy in the cognitive illusions literature. Gigerenzer and Ulrich Hoffrage were the first to develop and test a representation called \"natural frequencies\", which helps people make Bayesian inferences correctly without any outside help. Later it was shown that with this method, even 4th graders were able to make correct inferences. Once again, the problem is not simply in the human mind, but in the representation of the information. Gigerenzer has taught risk literacy to some 1,000 doctors in their CMU and some 50 US federal judges, and \"natural frequencies\" has now entered the vocabulary of evidence-based medicine. In recent years, medical schools around the world have begun to teach tools such as natural frequencies to help young doctors understand test results.\n\nIntellectually, Gigerenzer's work is rooted in Herbert Simon's work on satisficing (as opposed to maximizing) and on ecological and evolutionary views of cognition, where adaptive function and success is central, as opposed to logical structure and consistency, although the latter can be means towards function.\n\nGigerenzer and colleagues write of the mid-17th century \"probabilistic revolution\", \"the demise of the dream of certainty and the rise of a calculus of uncertainty – probability theory\". Gigerenzer calls for a second revolution, \"replacing the image of an omniscient mind computing intricate probabilities and utilities with that of a bounded mind reaching into an adaptive toolbox filled with fast and frugal heuristics\". These heuristics would equip humans to deal more specifically with the many situations they face in which not all alternatives and probabilities are known, and surprises can happen.\n\nGigerenzer is a jazz and Dixieland musician. He was part of The Munich Beefeaters Dixieland Band which performed in a TV ad for the VW Golf around the time it came out in 1974. The ad can be viewed on YouTube, with Gigerenzer at the steering wheel and on the banjo.\n\nHe is married to Lorraine Daston, director at the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science and has one daughter, Thalia Gigerenzer.\n\nGigerenzer is recipient of the AAAS Prize for Behavioral Science Research for the best article in the behavioral sciences, the Association of American Publishers Prize for the best book in the social and behavioral sciences, the German Psychology Prize, and the Communicator Award of the German Research Association (DFG), among others. (See the German Wikipedia entry, Gerd Gigerenzer, for an extensive list of honors and awards.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "299138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299138", "title": "Giles of Rome", "text": "Giles of Rome\n\nGiles of Rome (Latin: \"Aegidius Romanus\"; Italian: \"Egidio Colonna\"; c. 1243 – 22 December 1316), was an archbishop of Bourges who was famed for his logician commentary on the \"Organon\" by Aristotle. Giles was styled Doctor Fundatissimus (\"Best-Grounded Teacher\") by Pope Benedict XIV. He was Prior General of the Augustinian order, and also authored two other important works, \"De Ecclesiastica Potestate\", a major text of early 14th century papalism, and \"De Regimine Principum\", a guide book for princes.\n\nWriters in 14th and 15th century England such as John Trevisa and Thomas Hoccleve translated or adapted him into English.\n\nVery little in known about his early life, although Jordan of Saxony claimed in his late 13th century work \"Liber Vitasfratrum\" that Giles belonged to the Colonna family of Rome. But Jordan of Saxony was not a contemporary of Giles, and many scholars remain skeptical of his account of Giles' early life. Having entered the Order of the Hermits of St. Augustine at Rome, he was sent to Paris for his philosophical and theological studies, and became there the disciple of Thomas Aquinas. He was the first Augustinian appointed to teach in the University of Paris.\n\nIt is likely that Giles was a student of Thomas Aquinas during the period between 1269 and 1272. He began many of his commentaries on the works of Aristotle during the 1270s. Giles was in Paris doing theology until Bishop Étienne Tempier condemned the Aristotelian school of thought, including those who wrote commentaries on Aristotle's work, in the Condemnation of 1277. Giles, whose work had been condemned, disappeared from the Paris academic scene. There is no information on Giles between the period of 1277 and 1281, when he returned to Italy. However, in 1281, at the Thirty-sixth Council of Paris, in which several differences between bishops and mendicant orders were arranged, he sided with the bishops against the regulars. Referring to this, a contemporary philosopher, Godfrey of Fontaines mentioned him as the most renowned theologian of the whole city (\"qui modo melior de totâ villâ in omnibus reputatur\"), suggesting he might have been in Paris during this period before going back to Rome.\n\nPhilip III of France entrusted to him the education of his son, who later, in 1285, ascended the throne as Philip IV. When the new king, after his consecration at Reims, entered Paris, Giles gave the address of welcome in the name of the university, insisting on justice as the most important virtue of a king. (For the text, see Ossinger, in work cited below.)\n\nIn 1285 Giles' work was again called into question, but by 1287 he was allowed to continue teaching. Eight years later in 1295 Giles was appointed as the archbishop of Bourges, which he wrote about in his work \"De renunciatione\".\n\nGiles was involved in the condemnation of 1277 promulgated by Étienne Tempier. Several of his opinions had been found reprehensible by Archbishop Tempier, and in 1285 Pope Honorius IV asked him for a public retraction. This, however, was far from lessening his reputation, for in 1287 a decree of the general chapter of the Augustinians held in Florence, after remarking that Giles's doctrine \"shines throughout the whole world\" (\"venerabilis magistri nostri Ægidii doctrina mundum universum illustrat\"), commanded all members of the order to accept and defend all his opinions, written or to be written.\n\nAfter filling several important positions in his order he was elected superior-general in 1292. Three years later Pope Boniface VIII appointed him Archbishop of Bourges, France, although Jean de Savigny had already been designated for this see by Pope Celestine V. The French nobility protested on the ground that Colonna was an Italian, but his appointment was maintained and approved by the king.\n\nHe was present at the Council of Vienne (1311–1312) in which the Order of Knights Templars was suppressed. He died in Avignon.\n\nHis writings cover the fields of philosophy and theology. There is no complete edition of his works, but several treatises have been published separately.\n\nIn Holy Scripture and theology he wrote commentaries on the \"Hexaemeron\", the \"Canticle of Canticles\", and the \"Epistle to the Romans\"; several \"Opuscula\" and \"Quodlibeta,\" various treatises, and especially commentaries on Peter the Lombard's \"Four Books of Sentences.\"\n\nIn philosophy, besides commentaries on almost all the works of Aristotle, he wrote several special treatises. But his main work is the treatise \"De regimine principum,\" written for, and dedicated to, his pupil, Philip IV. It passed through many editions (the first, Augsburg, 1473) and was translated into several languages. The Roman edition of 1607 contains a life of Egidio. The work is divided into three books: the first treats of the individual conduct of the king, the nature of his true happiness, the choice and acquisition of virtues, and the ruling of passions; the second deals with family life and the relations with wife, children, and servants; the third considers the State, its origin, and the proper mode of governing in times of peace and war.\n\nHis pedagogical writings have been published in German by Kaufmann (Freiburg, 1904).\n\nHis attitude in the difficulties between Pope Boniface VIII and King Philip IV was long believed to have been favourable to the king. But it has been proved that he is the author of the treatise \"De potestate ecclesiasticâ,\" in which the rights of the pope are vindicated. The similarity between this treatise and the bull \"Unam Sanctam\" seems to support the view taken by some writers that he was the author of the bull.\n\nHe had already taken an active part in ending the discussions and controversies concerning the validity of Boniface's election to the papacy. In his treatise \"De renunciatione Papæ sive Apologia pro Bonifacio VIII\" he shows the legitimacy of Celestine's resignation and consequently of Boniface's election. In philosophy and theology he generally follows the opinions of his master, St. Thomas, whose works he quotes as \"scripta communia.\"\n\nThe \"Defensorium seu Correctorium corruptorii librorum Sancti Thomæ Acquinatis\" against the Franciscan William de la Mare of Oxford is by some attributed to him; but this remains uncertain. Nevertheless, on many points he holds independent views and abandons the Thomistic doctrine to follow the opinions of St. Augustine and of the Franciscan School. He even errs in asserting that, before the Fall, grace had not been given to Adam, an opinion which he wrongly attributes to St. Augustine.\n\nGiles wrote a commentary on Guido Cavalcanti's philosophical love \"canzone\" \"Donna me prega\" (see Enrico Fenzi, \"La canzone d'amore di Guido Cavalcanti e i suoi antichi commenti\", Melangolo, 1999).\n\nAfter the decree of the general chapter of 1287, mentioned above, his opinions were generally accepted in the Augustinian Order. He thus became the founder of the Ægidian School. Among the most prominent representatives of this school must be mentioned Giacomo Capoccio of Viterbo (d. 1307) and Augustinus Triumphus (d. 1328), both of them his contemporaries, and also students and professors in the University of Paris: Prosper of Reggio, Albert of Padua, Gerard of Siena, Henry of Frimar, Thomas of Strasburg — all in the first half of the fourteenth century.\n\nFor some time after this other opinions prevailed in the Augustinian Order. But as late as the seventeenth century should be mentioned Raffaello Bonherba (d. 1681) who wrote \"Disputationes totius philosophiæ … in quibus omnes philosophicæ inter D. Thomam et Scotum controversiæ principaliter cum doctrinâ nostri Ægidii Columnæ illustrantur\" (Palermo, 1645, 1671); and Augustino Arpe (d. 1704) who wrote \"Summa totius theologiæ Ægidii Columnæ\" (Bologna, 1701, and Genoa, 1704).\n\nFederico Nicolò Gavardi (d. 1715), the most important interpreter of Colonna, composed \"Theologia exantiquata iuxta orthodoxam S. P. Augustini doctrinam ab Ægidio Columnâ doctoræ fundatissimo expositam …\" (6 vols. fol., Naples and Rome, 1683–1696); this work was abridged by Anselm Hörmannseder in his \"Hecatombe theologica\" (Presburg, 1737). Benignus Sichrowsky (d. 1737) wrote also \"Philosophia vindicata ad erroribus philosophorum gentilium iuxta doctrinam S. Augustini et B. Ægidii Columnæ\" (Nuremberg, 1701).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7794202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7794202", "title": "György Bence", "text": "György Bence\n\nGyörgy Bence (Budapest, 8 December 1941 – 28 October 2006, Budapest) was a university professor, philosopher, dissident and political consultant.\n\nIn 1979 he was among the first Hungarians who criticized together with Andrei Sakharov and others the Soviet crackdown on the Czech Charter 77 signatories.\n\nLater he was among the founding members of the International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights. He was founding editor-in-chief of the Budapesti Könyvszemle (1989–1995).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10774189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10774189", "title": "Helene von Druskowitz", "text": "Helene von Druskowitz\n\nHelene von Druskowitz (May 2, 1856 – May 31, 1918), born Helena Maria Druschkovich, was an Austrian philosopher, writer and music critic. She was the second woman to obtain a Doctorate in Philosophy, which she obtained in Zürich. She usually published under a male alias because of predominant sexism.\n\nDruskowitz was born at Hietzing, in Vienna. In 1874 she moved to Zürich and completed her \"abitur\" in 1878. After studying philosophy, archeology, German literature, Orientalism and modern languages, she became the first Austrian woman and the second after Stefania Wolicka to obtain a doctorate in philosophy, with a dissertation on Byron's \"Don Juan\". She then worked as a literary history teacher in different universities (Vienna, Zurich, Munich, Basel). She also traveled to North Africa, France, Italy and Spain before returning to Vienna. In 1881 she met Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach who introduced her to her literary circle. Three years later, she became acquainted with Lou Andreas Salomé and Friedrich Nietzsche, whom she was introduced to by the circle of Malwida von Meysenbug. Helene Druskowitz was one of the happy few who received a copy of the fourth book of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", published at the author's expense. However, the relationship with Nietzsche did not last long.\n\nIn 1885 she published a book on \"Three English Writers\", Joanna Baillie, Elizabeth Barrett Browning and George Eliot.\n\nHelene Druskowitz's brother died in 1886, and her mother in 1888. In 1887, she began a live-in relationship in Dresden with the opera singer Therese Malten. She started to drink excessively and also had some drug problems. After a romantic separation in 1891, she finally slipped into alcoholism, and was sent in 1891 to a psychiatric hospital in Dresden. However, Helene continued to write and publish until 1905. She helped found the feminist reviews \"Der heilige Kampf\" (\"The Holy Struggle\") and \"Der Federuf\" (\"The Call to Feud\"). Druskowitz criticized both religion, sexism and, after her break with Nietzsche, his philosophy.\n\nShe died at the end of May 1918 in Mauer-Öhling, of dysentery, having spent the last 27 years of her life in a psychiatric institution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13531", "title": "Henri Bergson", "text": "Henri Bergson\n\nHenri-Louis Bergson (; 18 October 1859 – 4 January 1941) was a French-Jewish philosopher who was influential in the tradition of continental philosophy, especially during the first half of the 20th century until World War II.\n\nBergson is known for his arguments that processes of immediate experience and intuition are more significant than abstract rationalism and science for understanding reality.\n\nHe was awarded the 1927 Nobel Prize in Literature \"in recognition of his rich and vitalizing ideas and the brilliant skill with which they have been presented\". In 1930 France awarded him its highest honour, the Grand-Croix de la Legion d'honneur.\n\nBergson's great popularity created a controversy in France where his views were seen as opposing the secular and scientific attitude adopted by the Republic's officials.\n\nBergson was born in the Rue Lamartine in Paris, not far from the Palais Garnier (the old Paris opera house) in 1859. His father, the pianist Michał Bergson, was of a Polish Jewish background (originally bearing the name Bereksohn). His great-grandmother, Temerl Bergson, was a well-known patroness and benefactor of Polish Jewry, especially those associated with the Hasidic movement. His mother, Katherine Levison, daughter of a Yorkshire doctor, was from an English and Irish Jewish background. The Bereksohns were a famous Jewish entrepreneurial family of Polish descent. Henri Bergson's great-great-grandfather, Szmul Jakubowicz Sonnenberg, called Zbytkower, was a prominent banker and a protégé of Stanisław II Augustus,\nKing of Poland from 1764 to 1795.\n\nHenri Bergson's family lived in London for a few years after his birth, and he obtained an early familiarity with the English language from his mother. Before he was nine, his parents settled in France, Henri becoming a naturalized French citizen.\n\nHenri Bergson married Louise Neuberger, a cousin of Marcel Proust (1871–1922), in 1891. (The novelist served as best man at Bergson's wedding.) Henri and Louise Bergson had a daughter, Jeanne, born deaf in 1896. Bergson's sister, Mina Bergson (also known as Moina Mathers), married the English occult author Samuel Liddell MacGregor Mathers, a founder of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, and the couple later relocated to Paris as well.\n\nBergson lived the quiet life of a French professor, marked by the publication of his four principal works:\n\n\nIn 1900 the College of France selected Bergson to a Chair of Greek and Roman Philosophy, which he held until 1904. He then replaced Gabriel Tarde in the Chair of Modern Philosophy, which he held until 1920. The public attended his open courses in large numbers.\n\nBergson attended the Lycée Fontanes (known as the Lycée Condorcet 1870–1874 and 1883–present) in Paris from 1868 to 1878. He had previously received a Jewish religious education. Between 14 and 16, however, he lost his faith. According to Hude (1990), this moral crisis is tied to his discovery of the theory of evolution, according to which humanity shares common ancestry with modern primates, a process sometimes construed as not needing a creative deity.\n\nWhile at the lycée Bergson won a prize for his scientific work and another, in 1877 when he was eighteen, for the solution of a mathematical problem. His solution was published the following year in \"Nouvelles Annales de Mathématiques.\" It was his first published work. After some hesitation as to whether his career should lie in the sphere of the sciences or that of the humanities, he decided in favour of the latter, to the dismay of his teachers. When he was nineteen, he entered the École Normale Supérieure. During this period, he read Herbert Spencer. He obtained there the degree of \"licence ès lettres\", and this was followed by that of \"agrégation de philosophie\" in 1881 from the University of Paris.\n\nThe same year he received a teaching appointment at the lycée in Angers, the ancient capital of Anjou. Two years later he settled at the in Clermont-Ferrand, capital of the Puy-de-Dôme département.\n\nThe year after his arrival at Clermont-Ferrand Bergson displayed his ability in the humanities by the publication of an edition of extracts from Lucretius, with a critical study of the text and of the materialist cosmology of the poet (1884), a work whose repeated editions attest to its value in promoting Classics among French youth. While teaching and lecturing in this part of his country (the Auvergne region), Bergson found time for private study and original work. He crafted his dissertation \"Time and Free Will\", which was submitted, along with a short Latin thesis on Aristotle (\"Quid Aristoteles de loco senserit\", \"On the Concept of Place in Aristotle\"), for his doctoral degree which was awarded by the University of Paris in 1889. The work was published in the same year by Félix Alcan. He also gave courses in Clermont-Ferrand on the Pre-Socratics, in particular on Heraclitus.\n\nBergson dedicated \"Time and Free Will\" to (1832–1918), then public education minister, a disciple of Félix Ravaisson (1813–1900) and the author of a philosophical work \"On the Founding of Induction\" (\"Du fondement de l'induction\", 1871). Lachelier endeavoured \"to substitute everywhere force for inertia, life for death, and liberty for fatalism\". (Bergson owed much to both of these teachers of the \"École Normale Supérieure\". Compare his memorial address on Ravaisson, who died in 1900.)\n\nBergson settled again in Paris in 1888, and after teaching for some months at the municipal college, known as the \"College Rollin\", he received an appointment at the Lycée Henri-Quatre, where he remained for eight years. There, he read Darwin and gave a course on his theories. Although Bergson had previously endorsed Lamarckism and its theory of the heritability of acquired characteristics, he came to prefer Darwin's hypothesis of gradual variations, which were more compatible with his continual vision of life.\n\nIn 1896 he published his second major work, entitled \"Matter and Memory\". This rather difficult work investigates the function of the brain and undertakes an analysis of perception and memory, leading up to a careful consideration of the problems of the relation of body and mind. Bergson had spent years of research in preparation for each of his three large works. This is especially obvious in \"Matter and Memory\", where he showed a thorough acquaintance with the extensive pathological investigations which had been carried out during the period.\n\nIn 1898 Bergson became \"maître de conférences\" at his alma mater, École Normale Supérieure, and later in the same year received a promotion to a Professorship. The year 1900 saw him installed as Professor at the Collège de France, where he accepted the Chair of Greek and Roman Philosophy in succession to .\n\nAt the first International Congress of Philosophy, held in Paris during the first five days of August 1900, Bergson read a short, but important, paper, \"Psychological Origins of the Belief in the Law of Causality\" (\"Sur les origines psychologiques de notre croyance à la loi de causalité\"). In 1900 Felix Alcan published a work which had previously appeared in the \"Revue de Paris\", entitled \"Laughter\" (\"Le rire\"), one of the most important of Bergson's minor productions. This essay on the meaning of comedy stemmed from a lecture which he had given in his early days in the Auvergne. The study of it is essential to an understanding of Bergson's views of life, and its passages dealing with the place of the artistic in life are valuable. The main thesis of the work is that laughter is a corrective evolved to make social life possible for human beings. We laugh at people who fail to adapt to the demands of society if it seems their failure is akin to an inflexible mechanism. Comic authors have exploited this human tendency to laugh in various ways, and what is common to them is the idea that the comic consists in there being \"something mechanical encrusted on the living\".\n\nIn 1901 the Académie des sciences morales et politiques elected Bergson as a member, and he became a member of the Institute. In 1903 he contributed to the \"Revue de métaphysique et de morale\" a very important essay entitled \"Introduction to Metaphysics\" (\"Introduction à la metaphysique\"), which is useful as a preface to the study of his three large books. He detailed in this essay his philosophical program, realized in the \"Creative Evolution\".\n\nOn the death of Gabriel Tarde, the sociologist and philosopher, in 1904, Bergson succeeded him in the Chair of Modern Philosophy. From 4 to 8 September of that year he visited Geneva, attending the Second International Congress of Philosophy, when he lectured on \"The Mind and Thought: A Philosophical Illusion\" (Le cerveau et la pensée: une illusion philosophique). An illness prevented his visiting Germany from attending the Third Congress held at Heidelberg.\n\nHis third major work, \"Creative Evolution\", the most widely known and most discussed of his books, appeared in 1907. Pierre Imbart de la Tour remarked that \"Creative Evolution\" was a milestone of new direction in thought. By 1918, Alcan, the publisher, had issued twenty-one editions, making an average of two editions \"per annum\" for ten years. Following the appearance of this book, Bergson's popularity increased enormously, not only in academic circles but among the general reading public.\n\nAt that time, Bergson had already made an extensive study of biology including the theory of fecundation (as shown in the first chapter of the \"Creative Evolution\"), which had only recently emerged, ca. 1885 – no small feat for a philosopher specializing in the history of philosophy, in particular Greek and Roman philosophy. He also most certainly had read, apart from Darwin, Haeckel, from whom he retained his idea of a unity of life and of the ecological solidarity between all living beings, as well as Hugo de Vries, from whom he quoted his mutation theory of evolution (which he opposed, preferring Darwin's gradualism). He also quoted Charles-Édouard Brown-Séquard, the successor of Claude Bernard at the Chair of Experimental Medicine in the Collège de France, etc.\n\nBergson served as a juror with Florence Meyer Blumenthal in awarding the Prix Blumenthal, a grant given between 1919 and 1954 to painters, sculptors, decorators, engravers, writers, and musicians.\n\nBergson traveled to London in 1908 and met there with William James, the Harvard philosopher who was Bergson's senior by seventeen years, and who was instrumental in calling the attention of the Anglo-American public to the work of the French professor. The two became great friends. James's impression of Bergson is given in his Letters under date of 4 October 1908:\n\nSo modest and unpretending a man but such a genius intellectually! I have the strongest suspicions that the tendency which he has brought to a focus, will end by prevailing, and that the present epoch will be a sort of turning point in the history of philosophy.\n\nAs early as 1880, James had contributed an article in French to the periodical \"La Critique philosophique\", of Renouvier and Pillon, entitled \"Le Sentiment de l'Effort\". Four years later, a couple of articles by him appeared in the journal \"Mind\": \"What is an Emotion?\" and \"On some Omissions of Introspective Psychology\". Bergson quoted the first two of these articles in his 1889 work, \"Time and Free Will\". In the following years, 1890–91 appeared the two volumes of James's monumental work, \"The Principles of Psychology\", in which he refers to a pathological phenomenon observed by Bergson. Some writers, taking merely these dates into consideration and overlooking the fact that James's investigations had been proceeding since 1870 (registered from time to time by various articles which culminated in \"The Principles\"), have mistakenly dated Bergson's ideas as earlier than James's.\n\nIt has been suggested that Bergson owes the root ideas of his first book to the 1884 article by James, \"On Some Omissions of Introspective Psychology,\" which he neither refers to nor quotes. This article deals with the conception of thought as a stream of consciousness, which intellect distorts by framing into concepts. Bergson replied to this insinuation by denying that he had any knowledge of the article by James when he wrote \"Les données immédiates de la conscience\". The two thinkers appear to have developed independently until almost the close of the century. They are further apart in their intellectual position than is frequently supposed. Both have succeeded in appealing to audiences far beyond the purely academic sphere, but only in their mutual rejection of \"intellectualism\" as decisive as their actual agreement. Although James was slightly ahead in the development and enunciation of his ideas, he confessed that he was baffled by many of Bergson's notions. James certainly neglected many of the deeper metaphysical aspects of Bergson's thought, which did not harmonize with his own, and are even in direct contradiction. In addition to this, Bergson can hardly be considered a pragmatist. For him, \"utility,\" far from being a test of truth, was, in fact, the reverse: a synonym for error.\n\nNevertheless, William James hailed Bergson as an ally. In 1903, he wrote:\n\nI have been re-reading Bergson's books, and nothing that I have read for years has so excited and stimulated my thoughts. I am sure that his philosophy has a great future; it breaks through old frameworks and brings things to a solution from which new crystallizations can be reached.\n\nThe most noteworthy tributes James paid to Bergson come in the Hibbert Lectures (A Pluralistic Universe), which James gave at Manchester College, Oxford, shortly after meeting Bergson in London. He remarks on the encouragement he gained from Bergson's thought, and refers to his confidence in being \"able to lean on Bergson's authority.\" (See further James's reservations about Bergson, below.)\n\nThe influence of Bergson had led James \"to renounce the intellectualist method and the current notion that logic is an adequate measure of what can or cannot be\". It had induced him, he continued, \"to give up logic, squarely and irrevocably\" as a method, for he found that \"reality, life, experience, concreteness, immediacy, use what word you will, exceeds our logic, overflows, and surrounds it\".\n\nThese remarks, which appeared in James's book \"A Pluralistic Universe\" in 1909, impelled many English and American readers to investigate Bergson's philosophy for themselves, but no English translations of Bergson's major work had yet appeared. James, however, encouraged and assisted Dr. Arthur Mitchell in preparing an English translation of \"Creative Evolution\". In August 1910, James died. It was his intention, had he lived to see the translation finished, to introduce it to the English reading public by a prefatory note of appreciation. In the following year, the translation was completed and still greater interest in Bergson and his work was the result. By coincidence, in that same year (1911), Bergson penned a preface of sixteen pages entitled \"Truth and Reality\" for the French translation of James's book, \"Pragmatism\". In it, he expressed sympathetic appreciation of James's work, together with certain important reservations.\n\nFrom 5 to 11 April, Bergson attended the Fourth International Congress of Philosophy held at Bologna, in Italy, where he gave an address on \"Philosophical Intuition\". In response to invitations he visited England in May of that year, and on several subsequent occasions. These visits were well received. His speeches offered new perspectives and elucidated many passages in his three major works: \"Time and Free Will\", \"Matter and Memory\", and \"Creative Evolution\". Although necessarily brief statements, they developed and enriched the ideas in his books and clarified for English audiences the fundamental principles of his philosophy.\n\nIn May 1911 Bergson gave two lectures entitled \"The Perception of Change\" (\"La perception du changement\") at the University of Oxford. The Clarendon Press published these in French in the same year.\nHis talks were concise and lucid, leading students and the general reader to his other, longer writings. Oxford later conferred on him the degree of Doctor of Science.\n\nTwo days later he delivered the Huxley Lecture at the University of Birmingham, taking for his subject \"Life and Consciousness\". This subsequently appeared in \"The Hibbert Journal\" (October 1911), and since revised, is the first essay in the collected volume \"Mind-Energy\" (\"L'Énergie spirituelle\"). In October he again traveled to England, where he had an enthusiastic reception, and delivered at University College London four lectures on \"La Nature de l'Âme\" [The nature of the soul].\n\nIn 1913 Bergson visited the United States of America at the invitation of Columbia University, New York, and lectured in several American cities, where very large audiences welcomed him. In February, at Columbia University, he lectured both in French and English, taking as his subjects: \"Spirituality and Freedom\" and \"The Method of Philosophy\". Being again in England in May of the same year, he accepted the Presidency of the British Society for Psychical Research, and delivered to the Society an address on \"Phantoms of Life and Psychic Research\" (Fantômes des vivants et recherche psychique).\n\nMeanwhile, his popularity increased, and translations of his works began to appear in a number of languages: English, German, Italian, Danish, Swedish, Hungarian, Polish, and Russian. In 1914 Bergson's fellow-countrymen honoured him by his election as a member of the Académie française. He was also made President of the Académie des Sciences morales et politiques, and in addition, he became Officier de la Légion d'honneur, and Officier de l'Instruction publique.\n\nBergson found disciples of many types. In France movements such as neo-Catholicism and Modernism on the one hand and syndicalism on the other endeavoured to absorb and appropriate for their own ends some central ideas of his teaching. The continental organ of socialist and syndicalist theory, \"Le Mouvement socialiste\",\nportrayed the realism of Karl Marx and Pierre-Joseph Proudhon as hostile to all forms of intellectualism, and argued, therefore, that supporters of Marxist socialism should welcome a philosophy such as that of Bergson. Other writers, in their eagerness, claimed that the thought of the holder of the Chair of Philosophy at the Collège de France, and the aims of the \"Confédération Générale du Travail\" and the Industrial Workers of the World were in essential agreement.\n\nWhile social revolutionaries endeavoured to make the most out of Bergson, many religious leaders, particularly the more liberal-minded theologians of all creeds, e.g., the Modernists and Neo-Catholic Party in his own country, showed a keen interest in his writings, and many of them found encouragement and stimulus in his work. The Roman Catholic Church, however, banned Bergson's three books on the charge of pantheism (that is, of conceiving of God as immanent to his Creation and of being himself created in the process of the Creation). They were placed on the Index of prohibited books (Decree of 1 June 1914).\n\nIn 1914 the Scottish universities arranged for Bergson to give the famous Gifford Lectures, planning one course for the spring and another for the autumn. Bergson delivered the first course, consisting of eleven lectures, under the title of \"The Problem of Personality\", at the University of Edinburgh in the spring of that year. The course of lectures planned for the autumn months had to be abandoned because of the outbreak of war. Bergson was not, however, silent during the conflict, and he gave some inspiring addresses. As early as 4 November 1914, he wrote an article entitled \"Wearing and Nonwearing forces\" (La force qui s'use et celle qui ne s'use pas), which appeared in that unique and interesting periodical of the \"poilus\", \"Le Bulletin des Armées de la République Française\". A presidential address, \"The Meaning of the War\", was delivered in December 1914, to the Académie des sciences morales et politiques.\n\nBergson contributed also to the publication arranged by \"The Daily Telegraph\" in honour of King Albert I of the Belgians, \"King Albert's Book\" (Christmas, 1914).\nIn 1915 he was succeeded in the office of President of the \"Académie des Sciences morales et politiques\" by Alexandre Ribot, and then delivered a discourse on \"The Evolution of German Imperialism\". Meanwhile, he found time to issue at the request of the Minister of Public Instruction a brief summary of French Philosophy. Bergson did a large amount of traveling and lecturing in America during the war. He participated in the negotiations which led to the entry of the United States in the war. He was there when the French Mission under René Viviani paid a visit in April and May 1917, following upon America's entry into the conflict. Viviani's book \"La Mission française en Amérique\" (1917), contains a preface by Bergson.\n\nEarly in 1918 the \"Académie française\" received Bergson officially when he took his seat among \"The Select Forty\" as successor to Emile Ollivier (the author of the historical work \"L'Empire libéral\"). A session was held in January in his honour at which he delivered an address on Ollivier. In the war, Bergson saw the conflict of Mind and Matter, or rather of Life and Mechanism; and thus he shows us the central idea of his own philosophy in action. To no other philosopher has it fallen, during his lifetime, to have his philosophical principles so vividly and so terribly tested.\n\nAs many of Bergson's contributions to French periodicals remained relatively inaccessible, he agreed to the request of his friends to have such works collected and published in two volumes. The first of these was being planned when war broke out. The conclusion of strife was marked by the appearance of a delayed volume in 1919. It bears the title \"Spiritual Energy: Essays and Lectures\" (reprinted as \"Mind-Energy\" – \"L'Énergie spirituelle: essais et conférences\"). The advocate of Bergson's philosophy in England, Dr. Wildon Carr, prepared an English translation under the title \"Mind-Energy\". The volume opens with the Huxley Memorial Lecture of 1911, \"Life and Consciousness\", in a revised and developed form under the title \"Consciousness and Life\". Signs of Bergson's growing interest in social ethics and in the idea of a future life of personal survival are manifested. The lecture before the Society for Psychical Research is included, as is also the one given in France, \"L'Âme et le Corps\", which contains the substance of the four London lectures on the Soul. The seventh and last article is a reprint of Bergson's famous lecture to the Congress of Philosophy at Geneva in 1904, \"The Psycho-Physiological Paralogism\" (Le paralogisme psycho-physiologique), which now appears as \"Le cerveau et la pensée: une illusion philosophique\". Other articles are on the False Recognition, on Dreams, and Intellectual Effort. The volume is a most welcome production and serves to bring together what Bergson wrote on the concept of mental force, and on his view of \"tension\" and \"detension\" as applied to the relation of matter and mind.\n\nIn June 1920, the University of Cambridge honoured him with the degree of Doctor of Letters. In order that he might devote his full-time to the great new work he was preparing on ethics, religion, and sociology, the Collège de France relieved Bergson of the duties attached to the Chair of Modern Philosophy there. He retained the chair, but no longer delivered lectures, his place being taken by his disciple, the mathematician and philosopher Édouard Le Roy, who supported a conventionalist stance on the foundations of mathematics, which was adopted by Bergson. Le Roy, who also succeeded to Bergson at the \"Académie française\" and was a fervent Catholic, extended to revealed truth his conventionalism, leading him to privilege faith, heart and sentiment to dogmas, speculative theology and abstract reasoning. Like Bergson's, his writings were placed on the Index by the Vatican.\n\nIn the fall of 1922 Bergson's book \"Durée et simultanéité, a propos de la theorie d'Einstein\" (\"Duration and Simultaneity: Bergson and the Einsteinian Universe\") was published. Earlier in the spring Einstein had come to the French Society of Philosophy and briefly replied to a short speech made by Bergson. The book has been often considered as one of his worst, many alleging that his knowledge of physics was insufficient, and that the book did not follow up contemporary developments on physics. (But in \"Einstein and the Crisis of Reason\", a leading French philosopher, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, accused Einstein of failing to grasp Bergson's argument. This argument, Merleau-Ponty says, which concerns not the physics of special relativity but its philosophical foundations, addresses paradoxes caused by popular interpretations and misconceptions about the theory, including Einstein's own.) It was not published in the 1951 \"Edition du Centenaire\" in French, which contained all of his other works, and was only published later in a work gathering different essays, titled \"Mélanges\". \"Duration and simultaneity\" took advantage of Bergson's experience at the League of Nations, where he presided from 1920 to 1925 the International Committee on Intellectual Cooperation (the ancestor of the UNESCO, which included Einstein, Marie Curie, etc.)..\n\nWhile living with his wife and daughter in a modest house in a quiet street near the Porte d'Auteuil in Paris, Bergson won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1927 for having written \"The Creative Evolution\". Because of serious rheumatics ailments, he could not travel to Stockholm, and sent instead a text subsequently published in \"La Pensée et le mouvant\". He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1928.\n\nAfter his retirement from the Collège, Bergson began to fade into obscurity: he suffered from a degenerative illness (rheumatism, which left him half paralyzed). He completed his new work, \"The Two Sources of Morality and Religion\", which extended his philosophical theories to the realms of morality, religion, and art, in 1935. It was respectfully received by the public and the philosophical community, but all by that time realized that Bergson's days as a philosophical luminary were passed. He was, however, able to reiterate his core beliefs near the end of his life, by renouncing all of the posts and honours previously awarded him, rather than accept exemption from the antisemitic laws imposed by the Vichy government.\n\nBergson inclined to convert to Catholicism, writing in his will on 7 February 1937: \"My thinking has always brought me nearer to Catholicism, in which I saw the perfect complement to Judaism.\" Though wishing to convert to Catholicism, as stated in his will, he did not convert in view of the travails inflicted on the Jewish people by the rise of Nazism and anti-Semitism in Europe in the 1930s; he did not want to appear to want to leave the persecuted. On 3 January 1941 Bergson died in occupied Paris from bronchitis.\nA Roman Catholic priest said prayers at his funeral per his request. Bergson is buried in the Cimetière de Garches, Hauts-de-Seine.\n\nBergson rejected what he saw as the overly mechanistic predominant view of causality (as expressed in, say, finalism). He argued that we must allow space for free will to unfold in an autonomous and unpredictable fashion. While Kant saw free will as something beyond time and space and therefore ultimately a matter of faith, Bergson attempted to redefine the modern conceptions of time, space, and causality in his concept of Duration, making room for a tangible marriage of free will with causality. Seeing Duration as a mobile and fluid concept, Bergson argued that one cannot understand Duration through \"immobile\" analysis, but only through experiential, first-person intuition.\n\nBergson considers the appearance of novelty as a result of pure undetermined creation, instead of as the predetermined result of mechanistic forces. His philosophy emphasises pure mobility, unforeseeable novelty, creativity and freedom; thus one can characterize his system as a process philosophy. It touches upon such topics as time and identity, free will, perception, change, memory, consciousness, language, the foundation of mathematics and the limits of reason.\n\nCriticizing Kant's theory of knowledge exposed in the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" and his conception of truth – which he compares to Plato's conception of truth as its symmetrical inversion (order of nature/order of thought) – Bergson attempted to redefine the relations between science and metaphysics, intelligence and intuition, and insisted on the necessity of increasing thought's possibility through the use of intuition, which, according to him, alone approached a knowledge of the absolute and of real life, understood as pure duration. Because of his (relative) criticism of intelligence, he makes a frequent use of images and metaphors in his writings in order to avoid the use of concepts, which (he considers) fail to touch the whole of reality, being only a sort of abstract net thrown on things. For instance, he says in \"The Creative Evolution\" (chap. III) that thought in itself would never have thought it possible for the human being to swim, as it cannot deduce swimming from walking. For swimming to be possible, man must throw itself in water, and only then can thought consider swimming as possible. Intelligence, for Bergson, is a practical faculty rather than a pure speculative faculty, a product of evolution used by man to survive. If metaphysics is to avoid \"false problems\", it should not extend the abstract concepts of intelligence to pure speculation, but rather use intuition.\n\n\"The Creative Evolution\" in particular attempted to think through the continuous creation of life, and explicitly pitted itself against Herbert Spencer's evolutionary philosophy. Spencer had attempted to transpose Charles Darwin's theory of evolution in philosophy and to construct a cosmology based on this theory (Spencer also coined the expression \"survival of the fittest\"). Bergson disputed what he saw as Spencer's mechanistic philosophy.\n\nBergson's \"Lebensphilosophie\" (philosophy of life) can be seen as a response to the mechanistic philosophies of his time, but also to the failure of finalism. Indeed, he considers that finalism is unable to explain \"duration\" and the \"continuous creation of life\", as it only explains life as the progressive development of an initially determined program – a notion which remains, for example, in the expression of a \"genetic program\"; such a description of finalism was adopted, for instance, by Leibniz. It clearly announces Alfred North Whitehead's.\n\nBergson regarded planning beforehand for the future as impossible, since time itself unravels unforeseen possibilities. Indeed, one could always explain a historical event retrospectively by its conditions of possibility. But, in the introduction to the \"Pensée et le mouvant\", he explains that such an event created retrospectively its causes, taking the example of the creation of a work of art, for example a symphony: it was impossible to predict what would be the symphony of the future, as if the musician knew what symphony would be the best for his time, he would realize it. In his words, the effect created its cause. Henceforth, he attempted to find a third way between mechanism and finalism, through the notion of an original impulse, the \"élan vital\", in life, which dispersed itself through evolution into contradictory tendencies (he substituted to the finalist notion of a teleological aim a notion of an original impulse).\n\nThe foundation of Henri Bergson's philosophy, his theory of Duration, he discovered when trying to improve the inadequacies of Herbert Spencer's philosophy. Bergson introduced Duration as a theory of time and consciousness in his doctoral thesis \"Time and Free Will: An Essay on the Immediate Data of Consciousness\" as a response to another of his influences: Immanuel Kant.\n\nKant believed that free will (better perceived as The Will) could only exist outside of time and space, indeed the only non-determined aspect of our private existence in the universe, separate to water cycles, mathematics and mortality. However, we could therefore not know whether or not it exists, and that it is nothing but a pragmatic faith. Bergson responded that Kant, along with many other philosophers, had confused time with its spatial representation. In reality, Bergson argued, Duration is unextended yet heterogeneous, and so its parts cannot be juxtaposed as a succession of distinct parts, with one causing the other. Based on this he concluded that determinism is an impossibility and free will pure mobility, which is what Bergson identified as being the Duration.\n\nDuration, as defined by Bergson, then is a unity and a multiplicity, but, being mobile, it cannot be grasped through immobile concepts. Bergson hence argues that one can grasp it only through his method of intuition. Two images from Henri Bergson's \"An Introduction to Metaphysics\" may help one to grasp Bergson's term intuition, the limits of concepts, and the ability of intuition to grasp the absolute. The first image is that of a city. Analysis, or the creation of concepts through the divisions of points of view, can only ever give us a model of the city through a construction of photographs taken from every possible point of view, yet it can never give us the dimensional value of walking in the city itself. One can only grasp this through intuition; likewise the experience of reading a line of Homer. One may translate the line and pile commentary upon commentary, but this commentary too shall never grasp the simple dimensional value of experiencing the poem in its originality itself. The method of intuition, then, is that of getting back to the things themselves.\n\n\"Élan vital\" ranks as Bergson's third essential concept, after Duration and intuition. An idea with the goal of explaining evolution, the \"élan vital\" first appeared in 1907's \"Creative Evolution\". Bergson portrays \"élan vital\" as a kind of vital impetus which explains evolution in a less mechanical and more lively manner, as well as accounting for the creative impulse of mankind. This concept led several authors to characterize Bergson as a supporter of vitalism—although he criticized it explicitly in \"The Creative Evolution\", as he thought, against Driesch and Johannes Reinke (whom he cited) that there is neither \"purely internal finality nor clearly cut individuality in nature\":\n\nHereby lies the stumbling block of vitalist theories ... It is thus in vain that one pretends to reduce finality to the individuality of the living being. If there is finality in the world of life, it encompasses the whole of life in one indivisible embrace.\n\nIn \"\", Bergson develops a theory not of laughter itself but of how laughter can be provoked (see his objection to Delage, published in the 23rd edition of the essay). He describes the process of laughter (refusing to give a conceptual definition which would not approach its reality), used in particular by comics and clowns, as caricature of the mechanistic nature of humans (habits, automatic acts, etc.), one of the two tendencies of life (degradation towards inert matter and mechanism, and continual creation of new forms). However, Bergson warns us that laughter's criterion of what should be laughed at is not a moral criterion and that it can in fact cause serious damage to a person's self-esteem. This essay made his opposition to the Cartesian theory of the animal-machine obvious.\n\nFrom his first publications, Bergson's philosophy attracted strong criticism from different quarters, although he also became very popular and durably influenced French philosophy. The mathematician Édouard Le Roy became Bergson's main disciple. Nonetheless, Suzanne Guerlac has argued that his institutional position at the Collège de France, delivering lectures to a general audience, may have retarded the systematic reception of his thought: \"Bergson achieved enormous popular success in this context, often due to the emotional appeal of his ideas. But he did not have the equivalent of graduate students who might have become rigorous interpreters of his thought. Thus Bergson's philosophy—in principle open and nonsystematic—was easily borrowed piecemeal and altered by enthusiastic admirers\".\n\nAlfred North Whitehead acknowledged Bergson's influence on his process philosophy in his 1929 \"Process and Reality.\" However, Bertrand Russell, Whitehead's collaborator on \"Principia Mathematica\", was not so entranced by Bergson's philosophy. Although acknowledging Bergson's literary skills, Russell saw Bergson's arguments at best as persuasive or emotive speculation but not at all as any worthwhile example of sound reasoning or philosophical insight. The epistemologist Gaston Bachelard explicitly alluded to him in the last pages of his 1938 book \"The Formation of the Scientific Mind\". Others influenced by Bergson include Vladimir Jankélévitch, who wrote a book on him in 1931, Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, and Gilles Deleuze who wrote \"Le bergsonisme\" in 1966. Bergson also influenced the phenomenology of Maurice Merleau-Ponty and Emmanuel Levinas, although Merleau-Ponty had reservations about Bergson's philosophy. The Greek author Nikos Kazantzakis studied under Bergson in Paris and his writing and philosophy were profoundly influenced as a result.\n\nMany writers of the early 20th century criticized Bergson's intuitionism, indeterminism, psychologism and interpretation of the scientific impulse. Those who explicitly criticized Bergson, either in published articles or in letters, included Bertrand Russell George Santayana, G. E. Moore, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Martin Heidegger, Julien Benda, T. S. Eliot, Wyndham Lewis, Wallace Stevens, Paul Valéry, André Gide, Jean Piaget, Marxist philosophers Theodor W. Adorno, Lucio Colletti, Jean-Paul Sartre, and Georges Politzer, as well as Maurice Blanchot, American philosophers such as Irving Babbitt, Arthur Lovejoy, Josiah Royce, The New Realists (Ralph B. Perry, E. B. Holt, and William Pepperell Montague), The Critical Realists (Durant Drake, Roy W. Sellars, C. A. Strong, and A. K. Rogers), Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, Roger Fry (see his letters), Julian Huxley (in \"\") and Virginia Woolf (for the latter, see Ann Banfield, \"The Phantom Table\").\n\nThe Vatican accused Bergson of pantheism, while free-thinkers (who formed a large part of the teachers and professors of the French Third Republic) accused him of spiritualism. Still others have characterized his philosophy as a materialist emergentism – Samuel Alexander and C. Lloyd Morgan explicitly claimed Bergson as their forebear. According to Henri Hude (1990, II, p. 142), who supports himself on the whole of Bergson's works as well as his now published courses, accusing him of pantheism is a \"counter-sense\". Hude alleges that a mystical experience, roughly outlined at the end of \"Les Deux sources de la morale et de la religion\", is the inner principle of his whole philosophy, although this has been contested by other commentators.\n\nCharles Sanders Peirce took strong exception to those who associated him with Bergson. In response to a letter comparing his work with that of Bergson he wrote, \"a man who seeks to further science can hardly commit a greater sin than to use the terms of his science without anxious care to use them with strict accuracy; it is not very gratifying to my feelings to be classed along with a Bergson who seems to be doing his utmost to muddle all distinctions.\" William James's students resisted the assimilation of his work to that of Bergson. See, for example, Horace Kallen's book on the subject \"James and Bergson\". As Jean Wahl described the \"ultimate disagreement\" between James and Bergson in his \"System of Metaphysics\": \"for James, the consideration of action is necessary for the definition of truth, according to Bergson, action ... must be kept from our mind if we want to see the truth\". Gide even went so far as to say that future historians will overestimate Bergson's influence on art and philosophy just because he was the self-appointed spokesman for \"the spirit of the age\".\n\nAs early as the 1890s, Santayana attacked certain key concepts in Bergson's philosophy, above all his view of the New and the indeterminate:\n\nthe possibility of a new and unaccountable fact appearing at any time,\" he writes in his book on Hermann Lotze, \"does not practically affect the method of investigation; ... the only thing given up is the hope that these hypotheses may ever be adequate to the reality and cover the process of nature without leaving a remainder. This is no great renunciation; for that consummation of science ... is by no one really expected.\n\nAccording to Santayana and Russell, Bergson projected false claims onto the aspirations of scientific method, claims which Bergson needed to make in order to justify his prior moral commitment to freedom. Russell takes particular exception to Bergson's understanding of number in chapter two of \"Time and Free-will\". According to Russell, Bergson uses an outmoded spatial metaphor (\"extended images\") to describe the nature of mathematics as well as logic in general. \"Bergson only succeeds in making his theory of number possible by confusing a particular collection with the number of its terms, and this again with number in general\", writes Russell (see \"The Philosophy of Bergson\" and \"A History of Western Philosophy\").\n\nFurthermore, writers such as Russell, Wittgenstein, and James saw \"élan vital\" as a projection of subjectivity onto the world. The external world, according to certain theories of probability, provides less and less indeterminism with further refinement of scientific method. In brief, one should not confuse the moral, psychological, subjective demand for the new, the underivable and the unexplained with the universe. One's subjective sense of duration differs the (non-human) world, a difference which, according to the ancient materialist Lucretius should not be characterized as either one of becoming or being, creation or destruction (\"De Rerum Natura\").\n\nSuzanne Guerlac has argued that the more recent resurgence of scholarly interest in Bergson is related to the growing influence of his follower Deleuze within continental philosophy: \"If there is a return to Bergson today, then, it is largely due to Gilles Deleuze whose own work has etched the contours of the New Bergson. This is not only because Deleuze wrote about Bergson; it is also because Deleuze's own thought is deeply engaged with that of his predecessor, even when Bergson is not explicitly mentioned.\" Leonard Lawlor and Valentine Moulard agree with Guerlac that \"the recent revitalization of Bergsonism ... is almost entirely due to Deleuze.\" They explain that Bergson's concept of multiplicity \"is at the very heart of Deleuze's thought, and duration is the model for all of Deleuze's 'becomings.' The other aspect that attracted Deleuze, which is indeed connected to the first, is Bergson's criticism of the concept of negation in Creative Evolution. ... Thus Bergson became a resource in the criticism of the Hegelian dialectic, the negative.\"\n\nSeveral Hindu authors have found parallels to Hindu philosophy in Bergson's thought. The integrative evolutionism of Sri Aurobindo, an Indian philosopher from the early 20th century, has many similarities to Bergson's philosophy. Whether this represents a direct influence of Bergson is disputed, although Aurobindo was familiar with many Western philosophers. K Narayanaswami Aiyer, a member of the Theosophical Society, published a pamphlet titled \"Professor Bergson and the Hindu Vedanta\", where he argued that Bergson's ideas on matter, consciousness, and evolution were in agreement with Vedantic and Puranic explanations. Nalini Kanta Brahma, Marie Tudor Garland and Hope Fitz are other authors who have comparatively evaluated Hindu and Bergsonian philosophies, especially in relation to intuition, consciousness and evolution.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7151980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7151980", "title": "Hervaeus Natalis", "text": "Hervaeus Natalis\n\nHervaeus Natalis (c. 1260, Nédellec, diocese of Tréguier, Brittany-1323) was a Dominican theologian, the 14th Master of the Dominicans, and the author of a number of works on philosophy and theology. Among his many writings may be included the \"Summa Totius Logicae\", an \"opusculum\" once attributed to Thomas Aquinas.\n\nNatalis joined the Dominicans in 1276. In 1303, he entered the convent of St. Jacques at the University of Paris. On his arrival to St. Jacques, he signed a petition supporting Philip the Fair's attempt to convoke a council in his war with Pope Boniface VIII on grounds of papal jurisdiction.\n\nHe studied theology in Paris and became French provincial of the Dominicans in 1308. Later in 1318, he was appointed Master General of the Order.\n\nA resolute early Thomist, nicknamed \"Doctor rarus\", he was a tenacious opponent of the theology of Durandus of Saint-Pourçain. He also opposed Scotism. He sought for and obtained the canonization of Aquinas.\n\nHe became Master of the Order of Preachers in 1318, a post he held until he died in 1323 on the way to attend the canonization of Thomas Aquinas.\n\nNatalis' tenure as master general of the Order was focused on removing the corruption prevalent in the Dominican Order. His ordered a series of acts that limited the privileges of the elites within the Order. These acts ordered high members of the Order to take part in choir and eat in the refectory along with abolishing the use of titles1. In addition to these acts, Natalis sought to reign in the studia generalia by abolishing the title magister. He also sought to centralize the curriculum and appointments of the studia generalia to the Master General.\n\nWhile Natalis was Durandus' mentor, the two scholars disputed on numerous theological ideas. In a commission investigating the works of Durandus, Natalis found 91 objectionable propositions. From 1309 to 1316, a polemical war ensued between Hervaeus Natalis and Durandus of St. Pourçain. Throughout those years, both Natalis and Durandus of St. Pourçain exchanged polemics and writings that sought to disprove the other. Near the end of this war, Hervaeus Natalis compiled two censure lists, one in 1314 and one in 1316. These lists gathered the problematic tenets of Durandus' works, and in turn, compelled Durandus to revise his work.\n\nNotable works concerning this polemical war include Reprobationes excusationum Durandi, Quodlibet III, and Correctiones super dicta Durandi in Quodlibet Avenonense I. These works either reprimanded Durandus or responded to Durandus' counterattacks to Natalis' arguments. One of Natalis' most significant counters to Durandus was in his Evidentiae contra Durandum super Ivum sent, in which Natalis examines 38 articles where Durandus deviated from the teachings of Aquinas regarding the sacraments\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1743370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1743370", "title": "Holmes Rolston III", "text": "Holmes Rolston III\n\nHolmes Rolston III (born November 19, 1932) is a philosopher who is University Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at Colorado State University. He is best known for his contributions to environmental ethics and the relationship between science and religion. Among other honors, Rolston won the 2003 Templeton Prize, awarded by Prince Philip in Buckingham Palace. He gave the Gifford Lectures, University of Edinburgh, 1997–1998.\n\nThe Darwinian model is used to define the main thematic concepts in Rolston's philosophy and, in greater depth, the general trend of his thinking.\n\nHis grandfather and father Holmes Rolston, and Holmes Rolston Jr (who did not use the Jr) were Presbyterian ministers. Rolston III was married on June 1, 1956 to Jane Irving Wilson, with whom he has a daughter and son. He holds a B.S. in physics and mathematics from Davidson College (1953) and a Bachelor of Divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary (1956). He was ordained to the ministry of the Presbyterian Church (USA) also in 1956. He received a Ph.D. from the University of Edinburgh in 1958; his advisor was Thomas F. Torrance. He earned an M.A. in the philosophy of science from the University of Pittsburgh in 1968, beginning his career later that year as an assistant professor of philosophy at Colorado State University and becoming a full professor in 1976. He became a University Distinguished Professor in 1992. He gave the Gifford Lectures, University of Edinburgh, 1998-1999. He was named Templeton Prize laureate in 2003. He has lectured by invitation on all seven continents. Colorado State University inaugurated the Holmes Rolston Endowed Chair in Environmental Ethics in October 2016; for the inaugural lecture by Kenneth Shockley, click here..\n\nHolmes Rolston (1900-1977), father of Holmes Rolston III, was the Editor-in-Chief of the Presbyterian Church Board of Christian Education, in the United States, Richmond, Virginia between 1949 and 1969, and a widely published author of curriculum materials in Christian education. See \"Richmond (Virginia) Times-Dispatch Archive.\" 1977, November, p. 16. Richmond Times Dispatch Link: Richmond Times Dispatch archive\n\nHe gave the Sprunt Lectures, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Series XXXI 1941-1942, published as \"The Social Message of the Apostle Paul\" (John Knox Press, 1942). He also wrote a number of books on personalities in the Bible, for example: \"Faces about the Christ\" (John Knox Press, 1959) and \"Personalities Around David\" (John Knox Press, 1968). See \"Who's Who in America\", 39th ed., 1976-1977.\nHolmes Rolston III is author of eight books that have won acclaim in both academic journals and the mainstream press. They are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17436961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17436961", "title": "Jacek Salij", "text": "Jacek Salij\n\nJacek Salij OP (born 19 August 1942, Budy, Wołyń) is a Polish theologian and Thomist, philosopher, Roman Catholic priest, Dominican, translator, writer and publicist.\n\nDuring the years 1960-1967 he studied theology at The Dominican Philosophical-Theological College in Cracow, followed by studies during the years 1968-1970 at The Academy of Catholic Theology in Warsaw. In 1971, he obtained the title Doctor of Law and obtained a post-doctorate diploma (Habilitation) in 1979. In 1984, he worked at The Catholic University of Leuven (Belgium). In 1990, he was appointed extraordinary professor of The Academy of Catholic Theology, Warsaw and in 1992 became an ordinary professor of this institution.\n\nAt present, he is Director of the Chair of Dogmatic Theology at the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski (UKSW, formerly the Academy of Catholic Theology in Warsaw) and Consultant to the Section of Theological Studies in the Polish episcopate's Commission for the Teaching of the Faith. He lectures in dogmatic theology at the UKSW and at the Dominican Philosophical-Theological College in the Służew district of Warsaw.\n\nHe is a member of the Committee for Theological Studies of PAN and of the Polish section of the PEN Club.\n\nThe chief areas of his scientific interests are: history of dogmas, dogmatic theology, theology of God, philosophy of St. Thomas and scholasticism, ethics and bioethics. He is the author of many books, scientific dissertations and translations.\n\nHe contributes regularly to the monthly \"W drodze\" (\"On the Way\"), where for the last 30 years he has been running a column entitled \"For Those Seeking the Way\", in which he replies to various questions posed by the readers. This popular presentation of the Faith has become the basis for the publication of many of his books that give answers to the most burning questions of today.\n\nIn 2004, during the 10th Fair for Catholic Publishers, he obtained the FENIKS 2004 award \"for the tireless popularisation of theological knowledge in Poland in various publications”\n\nOn the 3 of May 2007, The President of the Republic of Poland, Lech Kaczyński, awarded Fr Jacek Salij with the Commander’s Cross with Star of Order of Poland Reborn.\n"}
{"id": "16256423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16256423", "title": "Jan Willis", "text": "Jan Willis\n\nJanice Dean Willis, or Jan Willis (born 1948) is Professor of Religion at Wesleyan University, where she has taught since 1977; and the author of books on Tibetan Buddhism. She has been called influential by \"Time Magazine\", \"Newsweek\" (cover story), and \"Ebony Magazine\". Aetna Inc.’s 2011 African American History Calendar features professor Willis as one of thirteen distinguished leaders of faith-based health initiatives in the United States.\n\nWillis grew up in Docena, Alabama (near Birmingham), as the daughter of a Baptist deacon and steelworker. While traveling through Asia during the early 1970s, she became the student of Tibetan lama Thubten Yeshe, who encouraged her academic pursuits. She received BA and MA degrees in philosophy from Cornell University (thesis: \"History, Faith, and Kerygma; A Critique of Bultmann's Existentialist Theology.\"), and a Ph.D. in Indic and Buddhist Studies from Columbia University (dissertation: \"A Study of the Chapter on Reality Based Upon the Tattvartha-patalam of Asanga's Bodhisattvabhumi.\").\n\nShe is the author of the following books:\n\nSince 2006 she has contributed to the group blog \"On Faith\" (sponsored by \"Newsweek\" and the \"Washington Post\") alongside Elie Wiesel, Desmond Tutu, and Madeleine Albright, among others. In 2003, she was awarded Wesleyan University’s Binswanger Prize for Excellence in Teaching.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16379600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16379600", "title": "Jens Kraft", "text": "Jens Kraft\n\nJens Kraft (1720–1756) was a Danish mathematician and philosopher of Norwegian birth. He was born in Frederikshald in Norway, but at age 5 he became an orphan and was subsequently raised by his uncle in Thy in Jutland. As a philosopher he introduced the study of ontology to Scandinavian academic circles.\n\nHe was influenced by Christian Wolff whilst still a student at Copenhagen, attending a lecture by Wolff while visiting Halle. He was appointed professor of philosophy at the Sorø Academy, where he responded to Baumgarten's \"Metaphsica\" with his own text \"metaphysik\". Both divided their work into \"cosmologie\", \"ontologie\", \"psykologie\" and \"naturlig theologie\".\n\nKraft made a distinction between time and eternity writing that \"the finite can never obtain eternity, but it can obtain an infinite time, (Aevum) or a time with beginning but without end.\" The infinite by contrast has permanence (\"sempiternité\")\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3535135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3535135", "title": "Julián Marías", "text": "Julián Marías\n\nJulián Marías Aguilera (17 June 1914 – 15 December 2005) was a Spanish philosopher associated with the Generation of '36 movement. He was a pupil of the Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset.\n\nMarías was born in the city of Valladolid, and moved to Madrid at the age of five. He went on to study philosophy at the Complutense University of Madrid, graduating in 1936. Within months of his graduation the Spanish Civil War broke out. During the conflict Marías sided with the Republicans, although his actual contributions were limited to propaganda articles and broadcasts.\n\nFollowing the end of the war in 1939, Marías returned to education. His doctoral thesis was rejected by the university, however, and handed over to the police, due to his inclusion of a number of lines critical of the rule of Franco. As a consequence of his writings Marías was briefly imprisoned and, upon his release, banned from teaching. Fortunately for Marías the proceeds from the sales of his \"History of Philosophy\", which went through countless editions, meant that the punishment did not seriously damage his livelihood.\n\nIn 1948 he co-founded, along with his former teacher José Ortega y Gasset, the Instituto de Humanidades (which he went on to head after the death of Ortega in 1955). Between the late 1940s and the 1970s, being unable to teach in Spain, Marías taught at numerous institutions in the United States, including Harvard University, Yale University, Wellesley College, and UCLA.\n\nMarías wrote on a wide variety of subjects during his long career. A subject of particular interest was Cervantes's \"Don Quixote\". In 1964 he was elected into the Real Academia Española, and he won a Prince of Asturias award in 1996.\n\nHe is the father of novelist Javier Marías and art historian Fernando Marías, and married the sister of director Jesús Franco.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47237333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47237333", "title": "Keith W. Faulkner", "text": "Keith W. Faulkner\n\nKeith Wylie Faulkner is a British academic specializing in the work of Gilles Deleuze. He received his Ph.D in philosophy from the University of Warwick, UK. He is known for authoring \"Deleuze and the Three Syntheses of Time\" on Deleuze's theory of time, which he calls the most important theory of time since Heidegger.\n\nAccording to Ansell-Pearson Faulkner's \"treatment of Deleuze’s three syntheses of time provides the analytical depth and intellectual profundity lacking in existing accounts.\" Calling it a 'must' read for the serious student and scholar of Deleuze, he says it rewards anyone with an interest in philosophy of time. According to Daniel W. Smith, Faulkner \"tackles one of the most important but also most difficult aspects of Deleuze’s philosophy - the theory of temporality (repetition) - and his analyses of the 'three syntheses' are not only rigorous and penetrating, but also accessible.\"\n\nBooks\n\nArticles\n"}
{"id": "33020457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33020457", "title": "Kenneth Wain", "text": "Kenneth Wain\n\nKenneth Wain (born 1943) is a major Maltese philosopher and educator. His areas of specialisation in philosophy are chiefly education, ethics, political philosophy.\n\nWain was born at Sliema, Malta, in 1943. He then pursued his higher studies in philosophy and in education at the University of London, England. He later studied philosophy in Malta.\n\nAfter some teaching experience in multiple junior high schools in Malta, Wain started his long teaching career at the University of Malta. Here he was also appointed Dean of the Faculty of Education. Along the way, Wain continued to specialise in ethics, political philosophy, the philosophy of education, and international relations.\n\nApart from playing a leading role in Malta’s national educational policy development, and in the setting of the national curriculum, he continued to contribute actively in the field as chairman of the Foundation for Tomorrow’s Schools, and of the Foundation for Educational Services. Wain is also a board member of the International Network of Philosophers of Education. In 2007 Wain was appointed Commissioner for Voluntary Organisations.\n\nThroughout his academic and philosophical career, Wain published considerably, and also established himself as a public figure of liberal views with a ready, sharp, but always civil, tongue.\n\nThe following are some of Wain’s publications.\n\n\"The list might need updating. Please help with the ongoing process of updating.\"\n\n\n\"The list certainly needs updating. Please help with the ongoing process of updating.\"\n\n\n\nA number of Wain’s poetry appeared in various anthologies, including the following:\n\nBeing an educationist with a pronounced bend towards the western model of democracy, Wain’s early philosophy was very much influenced by John Dewey. His later philosophy also draws on the works of poststructuralist philosophers such as Michel Foucault, Jürgen Habermas and Richard Rorty.\n\nThis can be especially gauged from Wain’s interest in the concept of lifelong learning, which, he maintains, should not be infected with any mania for efficient productivity in relation to political ideology, but, on the contrary, should be imbued with a broad humanistic awareness. This corroborates Wain’s understanding of democracy, which, to him, has more to do with individual maturity and responsibility and less with State hegemony or political performance. According to Wain, education and democracy are handmaids of each other. His political, moral, and aesthetic, philosophies, to be sure, all stem from, and are based on, this foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57675143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57675143", "title": "Kia (magic)", "text": "Kia (magic)\n\nWithin the magical system of Austin Osman Spare, \"Kia\" is a mystical concept – a sort of universal consciousness or unity, similar to the Tao. The concept has been adopted by numerous other occultists, such as Kenneth Grant, and has been particularly influential on the chaos magic movement.\n\nPhil Baker has speculated that the word \"Kia\" may have been influenced by \"esoteric Eastern and cabalistic words\" such as \"ki\", \"chi\", \"khya\" and \"chiah\". Or, alternatively, it may have been taken from \"The Secret Doctrine\" by Madame Blavatsky, which refers to a universal power called \"Kia-yu\".\n\nThe first reference to \"Kia\" appears on a painting exhibited by Spare in 1904, when he was just 17 years old. Spare conceived of Kia as a sort of universal mind, of which individual human consciousnesses are aspects. Spare further elaborated on the concept in \"The Book of Pleasure\" (1913), introducing it with the words:\nOf name it has no name, to designate. I call it Kia I dare not claim it as myself. The Kia which can be expressed by conceivable ideas, is not the eternal Kia, which burns up all belief but is the archetype of \"self,\" the slavery of mortality.\n\nSpare's words here bear marked resemblance to the \"Tao Te Ching\", which states \"The Tao that can be told is not the eternal Tao; The name that can be named is not the eternal name.\" – and like the Tao, or the Hindu Brahman, or the Sunyata of Buddhism, Spare's conception of Kia combined pure transcendent consciousness with a voidness inherent in all things.\n\nThe writer and occultist Kenneth Grant, who had known Spare in the 1950s, promoted Spare's ideas after his death, referring to his system as \"Zos Kia Cultus\". Grant emphasises the similarities between Kia and certain concepts from Eastern philosophy, comparing it to the Yab-Yum of Tantra, and describing reality as the dream of Kia. However, Grant also states that Kia differs from the Buddhist concept of voidness, in that it is realised through the body, rather than the mind, stating: \"The Kia is present everywhere, but the immediacy of its realisation is sought through the flesh, as in Zen it is apprehended through the mind. The object is the same in both methods, but the means appear to vary.\"\n\nGrant also departs from Spare in conceptualising Kia as inherently \"feminine\", equating it with both the Wiccan Goddess and Aleister Crowley's Babalon – the basic idea being that Kia is a sort of all-encompassing void that is impregnated by the will of the magician, and that gives birth to magical results.\n\nPeter J. Carroll, one of the founders of chaos magic (along with Ray Sherwin), elaborated a system heavily influenced by Spare in his early writings, particularly \"Liber Null\" (1978). However, somewhat confusingly, Carroll uses the term \"Kia\" to refer to the consciousness of the individual: \"the elusive 'I' which confers self-awareness\". The more general universal force, of which Kia is an aspect, Carroll termed \"Chaos\".\nThe unity which appears to the mind to exert the twin functions of will and perception is called \"Kia\" by magicians. Sometimes it is called the spirit, or soul, or life force, instead... Kia is capable of occult power because it is a fragment of the great life force of the universe... The \"thing\" responsible for the origin and continued action of events is called \"Chaos\" by magicians... Chaos... is the force which has caused life to evolve itself out of dust, and is currently most concentratedly manifest in the human life force, or Kia, where it is the source of consciousness... To the extent that the Kia can become one with Chaos it can extend its will and perception into the universe to accomplish magic.\n\n"}
{"id": "27415000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27415000", "title": "Kuruvilla Pandikattu", "text": "Kuruvilla Pandikattu\n\nKuruvilla Pandikattu (born 28 November 1957) is an Indian Jesuit priest and Professor of Philosophy, Science and Religion at Jnana-Deepa Vidyapeeth: Institute of Philosophy and Religion, Pune, Maharashtra, India. He is also Director of JDV Centre for Science-Religion Studies (JCSR) and Association of Science, Society and Religion (ASSR), Pune.\n\nHe has authored/edited twenty-six books and written more than 160 academic articles. He has been involved as co-founder and co-publisher with two journals, \"Jnanadeepa: Pune Journal of Religious Studies\" and \"AUC: Asian Journal of Religious Studies.\" Further, he has organised more than forty academic conferences. His weekly column on \"Contemporary Spirituality\" appears on Tuesdays in \"Financial Chronicle\". He has been contributing regularly to both academic and popular journals.\n\nHe is involved in science-religion dialogue and science-related activities, in which topic he has been teaching four courses. His areas of interest (and specialisation) include: Science-Religion Dialogue; Philosophical Anthropology (Emerich Coreth); Hermeneutics (Paul Ricœur) and Inter-religious dialogue (Bede Griffiths).\n\nThe two starting points of his academic research works are in physics and religion: quest for the unification of the fourfold forces of nature in physics and the hermeneutics of dialogue in Paul Ricoeur. This led him to seek further the interpretative and symbolic (or mythic) nature of religious experience and resulted in his first doctoral thesis: \"“Idols to die, so that symbols might live.”\" He traces the idol-symbol tension in every aspect of human experience.\n\nThen he look up the dialogical dimension of not only of religions, but also of human existence. So his second doctoral thesis on Bede Griffiths was published under the title, \"Dialog as Way of Life.\" Further, he took up issues in science-religion dialogue, which according to him is \"not an option but an obligation\" for the very survival of the human species. This calls for radial commitment. Two main areas of his research are \"physical immortality\" and \"viable or sustainable life-style\".\n\nHe has been teaching and writing on philosophical anthropology. His view on the human person could be summarised as the \"between before and beyond.\" Following Martin Heidegger, he holds that we always carry with us our past (before) and anticipate our future (beyond) and experience the healthy tension as the \"between\" or the present. Further, he would say that human freedom, is the \"finite search for the infinite.\"\n\nThis infinite or God (also The Reality) is the enticing and elusive dimension of our human life. God is ever approachable, but never attainable exhaustively. Like the horizon, that invites and cajoles us and recedes from us, God is always near and far at the same time. He bases this insight on scientific details like the lowest temperature reachable (t →0) and knowing that the beginning of Big Bang (T →0) and is like the \"horizon\", which is never fully attainable.\n\nHe says that reality is relational and at the same time paradoxical. The paradox of love is that when two people, who have accepted their own emptiness and recognises their own nothingness, affirm each other, there emerges authentic love, that is infinite. Thus, when one truly looks at reality, accepts its nothingness (even absurdity) there emerges traces of infinity. That is the paradoxical beauty of love and of our existence.\n\nHe has been actively involved in science-religion dialogue. He is interested in looking at both science and religion critically and creatively, so that they can enrich each other and the humanity. In this area he has delivered numerous lectures, written numerous articles and books and organised conferences.\n\n\n\n\nPandikattu was born in Areekara, Kerala, India. He was born to Uthuppan and Mary Joseph. He had his early education at Government LP School, Veliyannoor (1962–65) and St. Rockey's U.P. School, Areekara (1965–70). Then he pursued his basic studies at Sacred Heart School, Changanashery, Kerala (1970–73).\n\nAfter School Secondary Leaving Certificate (S.S.L.C.) he left for Guhiajori, Dumka, Bihar (now Jharkhand). Other places of his studies are: St. Xavier's School, Sahibganj (1976–78); Loyola College, Chennai (1978–81); St. Joseph's College, Trichy (1981–83); Jnana-Deepa Vidyapeeth, Pune (1983–85), and University of Pune (1988–91).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21932102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21932102", "title": "Leslie Armour", "text": "Leslie Armour\n\nLeslie Armour (9 March 1931 – 1 November 2014) was a Canadian-born philosopher and writer on social economics. He is the father of the cellist and impresario Julian Armour.\n\nArmour completed a BA at the University of British Columbia in 1952 and a PhD at the University of London in 1956. At the time of his death, he was a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada and a Research Professor of Philosophy at the Dominican University College, Ottawa, Adjunct Professor of Philosophical Theology at St. Paul University, and Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the University of Ottawa. He taught at universities in Montana, California, and Ohio. From 2004 to 2010, he was editor of the \"International Journal of Social Economics\". His major areas of research included metaphysics, epistemology, philosophy, the philosophical underpinnings of economics and \"he is a pioneer in publishing early Canadian philosophy and has philosophical publications in metaphysics, religion, law, politics and economics\". Armour has contributed significantly to the interdisciplinary school of Canadian Studies.\n\nHe authored nine books (three with co-authors), more than seventy chapters in books and a hundred articles in scholarly journals. He was a frequent speaker at conferences on economics, religious studies and French and German philosophy. There is a bibliography to 2001 and extensive commentaries on Armour's work in William Sweet's \"Idealism, Metaphysics, and Community\".\n\nArmour's most recent book, \"Inference and Persuasion: An Introduction to Logic and Critical Reasoning\" (2005), was co-authored by Richard Feist. It is written so as to be accessible to all audiences and is concerned with the problems associated with logic, offering suggestions rather than solutions, for, as Armour states, nothing is certain. This book discusses meaning-assignment, rule-making, beliefs, and the correlation between belief and action. It pays special attention to how these are misunderstood, corrupted and blocked so that we are robbed of our freedom. The authors argue that reason and experience are both important to logic, and that logic is important because it allows for understanding and survival.\n\nInference is described as the beliefs and judgments that create rules. Inference and rule are tools that we use for freedom. We think for ourselves and draw our own conclusions; knowledge permits freedom to act. Yet the way inferences are drawn is subject to the influence of logicians, such as Aristotle, and their language. Aristotle's focus on class inclusion and exclusion highlights the limits of the language of logic. This idea of classification is problematic, as it ignores things not included in a class and the fact that the meaning of classes is not clear. \"Trying to lay out axioms or rules in advance... will always lead to limitations\" because \"imposing systems on our thinking seems to bring limits into play\".\n\nExamining John Dewey's logic (Chapter Four), the notion that reason and experience are interconnected is evident. Logic is concerned with the 'human world', which is not the 'world in itself'. Thinking has a purpose; it is a problem solving tool, an attempt to make experience coherent.\n\nThe authors go through previous theories and views on logic and add interesting and thought-provoking ideas. They note the tensions between experience and logic, the biases associated with reasoning, and the importance of context. In \"Logic and Morality\" it is argued that our biases inform how we form our understanding of facts. How we reason about what to do is based on practicality, which is based on our values. In \"Logic and Politics\" we see the notion of classes, as assembled from members, as individualist, with community interests ignored. The authors suggest we must understand the world through relationships, since individuals only exist in context, such as social contexts. Logic has the tendency to either ignore social realities or create individualist societies.\n\nConcluding their text with the limits set by the rules of logic, they state that the ultimate reason for caution in using logic is that \"One should not let one's choice of logic impose restrictions on one's freedom — provided of course that one can see rational alternatives. Where that line is drawn readers must decide for themselves\"\n\nArmour was elected to the Royal Society of Canada in August 1998, which recognized his significant contribution to research and scholarly work.\n\n\nArmour has also published some 200 papers in learned journals and chapters in books.\n\n\"Canadian Who's Who\"\n\n"}
{"id": "567364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567364", "title": "Lucilio Vanini", "text": "Lucilio Vanini\n\nLucilio Vanini (15859 February 1619), who, in his works, styled himself Giulio Cesare Vanini, was an Italian philosopher, physician and free-thinker, who was one of the first significant representatives of intellectual libertinism. He was among the first modern thinkers who viewed the universe as an entity governed by natural laws (nomological determinism). He was also the first literate proponent of biological evolution, maintaining that humans and other apes have common ancestor.\n\nVanini was born at Taurisano near Lecce, and studied philosophy and theology at Naples. Afterwards, he applied himself to the physical studies, chiefly medicine and astronomy, which had come into vogue with the Renaissance. Like Giordano Bruno, he attacked scholasticism.\n\nFrom Naples he went to Padua, where he came under the influence of the Alexandrist Pietro Pomponazzi, whom he styled his divine master. Subsequently, he led a roving life in France, Switzerland and the Low Countries, supporting himself by giving lessons and disseminating radical ideas. He was obliged to flee to England in 1612 but was imprisoned in London for 49 days.\n\nReturning to Italy, he made an attempt to teach in Genoa but was driven again to France, where he tried to clear himself of suspicion by publishing a book against atheism: \"Amphitheatrum Aeternae Providentiae Divino-Magicum\" (1615). Though the definitions of God are somewhat pantheistic, the book served its immediate purpose. Although Vanini did not expound his true views in his first book, he did in his second: \"De Admirandis Naturae Reginae Deaeque Mortalium Arcanis\" (Paris, 1616). This was originally certified by two doctors of the Sorbonne, but was later re-examined and condemned.\n\nVanini then left Paris, where he had been staying as chaplain to the Marechal de Bassompierre, and began to teach in Toulouse. In November 1618, he was arrested and, after a prolonged trial, was condemned to have his tongue cut out, to be strangled at the stake and to have his body burned to ashes. The sentence was executed on 9 February 1619.\n\nLucilio Vanini was born in 1585 in Taurisano, Terra d'Otranto, Italy. His father was Giovan Battista Vanini, a businessman from Tresana in Tuscany, while his mother was the daughter of a man named Lopez de Noguera, a customs contractor of the Spanish royal family's lands in Bari, Terra d'Otranto, Capitanata, and Basilicata. A document dated August 1612, discovered in the Vatican Secret Archives, describes Vanini as of Apulia, which is consistent with the native land he mentions in his own works.\n\nThe government census of the population of the hamlet of Taurisano, in 1596, includes the names of Giovan Battista Vanini, his lawful son Alexander, born in 1582, and his natural son Giovan Francesco, while there is no mention of Vanini's wife or of another lawful son called Lucilio (or Giulio Cesare). In 1603 Giovan Battista Vanini is reported for the last time in Taurisano.\n\nLucilio Vanini entered the University of Naples in 1599. In 1603 he entered the Carmelite order, taking the name of Fra Gabriele. He earned a doctorate in canon and civil law from the University of Naples on 6 June 1606.\n\nAfterwards, he remained in the Naples area for two years, apparently living as a friar, or alternatively he returned to Lecce and studied the new Renaissance sciences, chiefly medicine and astronomy. By now, he had assimilated much knowledge and \"speaks very good Latin and with great ease, is tall and a bit thin, has brown hair, an aquiline nose, lively eyes and a pleasant and ingenious physiognomy\".\nIn (probably) 1606, Vanini's father died in Naples. Vanini, now come of age, was recognised by a court in the capital as heir of Giovan Battista and guardian of his brother Alexander. With a series of deeds and power of attorney drawn up in Naples, Vanini began to settle the financial consequences of the death of his father: selling a house he owned in Ugento, a few miles from his home country; in 1607 mandating a maternal uncle to fulfil assignments of the same type; in 1608 instructing friend Scarciglia to recover a sum and sell some goods remaining in Taurisano and held in custody by the two brothers.\n\nIn 1608, Vanini moved to Padua, a town under the rule of Venice, to study theology at that university (although there is no record of him subsequently obtaining a degree). While there he came into contact with the group led by Paolo Sarpi that, with the support of the English embassy in Venice, fueled anti-papal polemics. In 1611 he participated in the Lenten sermons, attracting the suspicions of the religious authorities. During that period, the controversy over the 1606 interdict placed on the Republic of Venice by Pope Paul V was still raging, and Vanini showed himself unambiguously in favour of the Republic. Consequently, the Prior General of his order, Enrico Silvio, commanded him to return to Naples, where he would have been disciplined, probably severely, but instead Vanini sought refuge with the English ambassador to Venice in 1612.\n\nVanini now fled to England, along with his Genoese companion Bonaventure Genocchi. They passed through Bologna, Milan, the Swiss canton of Graubünden, and descended via the Rhine, through Germany and the Netherlands, to the North Sea coast and the English Channel, finally reaching London and the Lambeth residence of the Archbishop of Canterbury. Here the two remained for nearly two years, hiding their true identity from their English guests. In July 1612, they both renounced their Catholic faith and embraced Anglicanism.\n\nBy 1613, however, Vanini was having doubts, so he appealed to the Pope to be allowed back into the Catholic fold, but as a secular priest rather than as a friar; the request was granted by the Pope himself. Around the start of 1614, Vanini visited the Universities of Cambridge and Oxford and confided to some acquaintances his imminent flight from England, so in January, he and Genocchi were arrested on the orders of the Archbishop of Canterbury, George Abbot. They managed to escape however, Genocchi in February 1614 and Vanini in March. The Spanish ambassador in London and the chaplain of the embassy of the Venetian Republic were thought to have engineered their escapes. The two passed through the hands of the papal nuncio in Flanders, Guido Bentivoglio, to the papal nuncio in Paris, Roberto Ubaldini.\n\nIn Paris, in the summer of 1614, Vanini subscribed to the principles of the Council of Trent, to prove the sincerity of his return to the Catholic faith. He then journeyed to Italy, going first to Rome, where he had to face the difficult final stages of the process in the court of the Inquisition, then to Genoa for a few months, where he found his friend Genocchi and taught philosophy to children of Scipio Doria for a time.\nDespite assurances, the return of Vanini and Genocchi was not entirely peaceful; in January 1615 Genocchi was arrested by the Inquisitor of Genoa. Vanini therefore, fearing the same fate, ran away again to France and headed to Lyon. There, in June 1615, he published \"Amphitheatrum\", a book against atheism, which he hoped would clear his name with the Roman authorities.\n\nA short time later Vanini returned to Paris, where he asked Nuncio Ubaldini to intervene on his behalf with the authorities in Rome. Insufficiently assured, Vanini decided not return in Italy, and instead cultivated connections with prestigious elements of the French nobility.\n\nIn 1616, Vanini completed the second of his two works, \"De Admirandis\", and got it approved by two theologians at the Sorbonne. The work was published in September in Paris. It was dedicated to François de Bassompierre, a powerful man at the court of Marie de' Medici, and was printed by Adrien Périer, a Protestant. The work was immediately successful among those aristocratic circles populated by young spirits who looked with interest to the cultural and scientific innovations that came from Italy. The \"De Admirandis\" was a summa, lively and brilliant, of the new knowledge, and became a kind of \"manifesto\" for these cultural free spirits, giving Vanini a chance to stay safe in circles close to the French court. However, a few days after the publication of the work, the two theologians at the Sorbonne who had expressed their approval were presented to the Faculty of Theology in formal session and the outcome was a \"de facto\" ban on the movement of the text.\n\nNow, unwelcome in England, unable to return to Italy and threatened by some circles of French Catholics, Vanini saw his room for manoeuvre shrinking and his chances of finding a stable place in French society failing. Fearing that a court case would be started against him in Paris, he fled and went into hiding at Redon Abbey in Brittany, where Abbott Arthur d'Épinay de Saint-Luc acted as his protector. But other factors gave cause for concern: in April 1617 Concino Concini, favorite of Marie de' Medici, was killed in Paris, giving rise to a wave of hostility to Italian residents at court.\n\nIn the following months, a mysterious Italian, with a strange name (Pompeo Uciglio) and in possession of great knowledge but an uncertain past, appeared in some cities of Guyenne, then the Languedoc and finally Toulouse. Duke Henri II de Montmorency, protector of \"esprits forts\" of the time, was the governor of this region and seemed to grant protection to the fugitive, who still continued to keep carefully hidden.\n\nThe presence of this mysterious character in Toulouse did not however pass unnoticed and attracted the suspicions of the authorities. In August 1618 he was apprehended and interrogated. In February 1619, the Parliament of Toulouse found him guilty of atheism and blasphemy and, in accordance with the regulations of the time, his tongue was cut out, he was strangled and his body was burned. After the execution it emerged that the stranger was in fact Vanini.\n\n\"Amphitheatrum Aeternae Providentiae divino-magicum, christiano-physicum, necnon astrologo-catholicum adversus veteres philosophos, atheos, epicureos, peripateticos et stoicos\" (possible translation: \"Amphitheatre of Eternal Providence – Religio-magical, Christian-physical and Astrologico-Catholic – against the Ancient Philosophers, Atheists, Epicureans, Peripatetics and Stoics\"), published in Lyon in 1615, consists of 50 exercises, which aim to demonstrate the existence of God, to define His essence, to describe His providence and to examine or refute the opinions of Pythagoras, Protagoras, Cicero, Boethius, Thomas Aquinas, the Epicureans, Aristotle, Averroes, Gerolamo Cardano, the Peripatetics, the Stoics, etc. on this subject.\n\n\"De Admirandis Naturae Reginae Deaeque Mortalium Arcanis\" (possible translation: \"On the Marvelous Secrets of Nature, the Queen and Goddess of Mortals\"), printed in Paris in 1616 by publisher Adrien Périer, is divided into four books:\n\n\nThese contain a total of 60 dialogues (but really only 59, as dialogue XXXV is absent), which take place between the author, in the role of disseminator of knowledge, and an imaginary Alessandro, who urges his interlocutor to list and explain the mysteries of nature found around and within man.\n\nIn a mixture of reinterpretation of ancient knowledge and the dissemination of new scientific and religious theories, the protagonist discusses: the material, figure, colour, form, energy and eternity of heaven; the motion and the central pole of the heavens; the sun, the moon, the stars; fire; comets and rainbows; lightning, snow and rain; the motion and rest of projectiles in the air; the impulsion of mortars and crossbows; winds and breezes; corrupt airs; the element of water; the birth of the rivers; the rising of the Nile; the extent and saltiness of the sea; the roar and the motion of the water; the motion of projectiles; the creation of islands and mountains, as well as the cause of earthquakes; the genesis, root and colour of the gems, as well as spots of stones; life, food, and the death of the stones; the strength of the magnet to attract iron and its direction toward the Earth's poles; plants; the explanation to be given to certain phenomena of everyday life; semen; the reproduction, nature, respiration and nutrition of fish; the reproduction of birds; the reproduction of bees; the first generation of man; stains contracted by children in the womb; the generation of male and female; parts of monsters; the faces of children covered by larvae; the growth of man; the length of human life; sight; hearing; smell; taste; touch and tickle; the affections of man; God; appearances in the air; oracles; the Sibyls; the possessed; sacred images of the pagans; augurs; the miraculous healing of diseases reported in pagan times; the resurrection of the dead; witchcraft; dreams.\n\nThe naturalistic interpretation of supernatural phenomena that Pietro Pomponazzi – called by Vanini \"magister meus, divinus praeceptor meus, nostri seculi Philosophorum princeps\" – had given in \"De Incantationibus\" was summarised in \"De Admirandis Naturae\", where, in simple and elegant prose, Vanini also referred to Cardano, Julius Caesar Scaliger and other 16th century thinkers.\n\n\"God acts on sublunary beings [humans] using the sky as a tool\": hence the natural and rational explanation of the allegedly supernatural phenomena, since even astrology was considered a science. God may use such phenomena to warn the people, and especially rulers, of danger. But the real origin of supernatural phenomena is, for Vanini, the human imagination, which can sometimes change the appearance of external reality. For the ecclesiastical \"impostors\" that promulgate false beliefs to gain wealth and power, and rulers interested in dominating the people, according to Vanini, \"all religious things are false and fake principles to teach the naive populace that, when reason cannot be reached, at least practice religion\".\n\nFollowing Pietro Pomponazzi and Simone Porzio in their interpretation of the Aristotelian texts and the commentary thereon by Alexander of Aphrodisias, Vanini denied the immortality of the soul and attacked the Aristotelian cosmos-view. Like Bruno, he denied the difference between the everyday world and the celestial world, saying that both are composed of the same corruptible material. He disputed, in the physical and biological world, finality and the hylomorphic Aristotelian doctrine, and, reconnecting Epicureanism with Lucretius, prepared a new mechanistic-materialistic description of the universe where bodies are likened to a watch, and conceived a first form of universal transformation of living species. He agreed with the Aristotelian eternity of the world, especially considering the temporal aspect, but affirmed the rotation of the earth and appeared to reject the Ptolemaic system in favour of the heliocentric/Copernican system.\n\nIf the first editor of his works, Luigi Corvaglia, and historian Guido De Ruggiero, unjustly, considered his writings simply \"a \"centone\" devoid of originality and scientific seriousness\", the Jesuit priest François Garasse, far more worried about the consequences of the spread of his writings, judged them \"a work of such most pernicious atheism as was never released in the last hundred years\". The works of Vanini have been extensively reviewed and revalued by contemporary critics, revealing originality and insights (metaphysical, physical, biological) sometimes well ahead of their time.\n\nSince Vanini in his works obscured his ideas, a typical ploy at the time to avoid serious conflicts with the religious and political authorities (conflicts which paradoxically and unfortunately, despite the precautions, led finally to his death), the interpretation of his thought is difficult. However, in the history of philosophy, he has the image of an unbeliever or even an atheist. Considered as one of the fathers of libertinism, he was regarded as a lost soul by conventional Christians, despite having written a defense of the Council of Trent.\n\nTo understand the origins of Vanini's thought one has to look to his cultural background, which was fairly typical of the Renaissance, with a prevalence of elements of Averroistic Aristotelianism but with strong elements of mysticism and Neo-Platonism. On the other hand, he drew from Nicholas of Cusa typical pantheistic elements, similar to those which are also found in Giordano Bruno, but more materialistic. His world view was based on the eternity of matter, and of a God in nature as a \"force\" that shapes, orders and directs. All forms of life, he thought, had originated spontaneously from the earth itself as their creator.\n\nVanini was considered an atheist, but his first work, published in Lyon in 1615, \"Amphitheatrum\", indicates otherwise. As a precursor of libertinism there are many elements that make his teaching close to the thought of the unknown author of the Treatise of the Three Impostors, also a pantheist. Vanini thought in fact that the creators of the three monotheistic religions, Moses, Jesus and Muhammad, were nothing but impostors.\n\nIn \"De Admirandis\" are found themes from \"Amphitheatrum\", with refinements and developments that make it his masterpiece and the summary of his philosophy. Denying creation from nothing and the immortality of the soul, he saw God in Nature as its driving force and vital force, both eternal. The stars of heaven he considered a kind of intermediary between God and Nature. The true religion is therefore a \"religion of Nature\" that does not deny God but considers Him a spirit-force.\n\nThe thought of Vanini is quite fragmented and also reflects the complexity of its origins, as he was a religious figure, a naturalist, but also a doctor and in part a magician. What characterizes the prose is the vehemently anti-clerical sentiment. Among the original aspects of his thinking there is a kind of anticipation of Darwinism, because, after a first half in which he argues that the animal species arise by spontaneous generation from the earth, in the second part he seems convinced that they can be transformed into each other and that man comes from \"animals related to man, such as the Barbary apes, the monkeys and apes in general\".\n\nIn 1623 two works appeared that started the myth of Vanini the atheist: \"La doctrine curieuse des beaux esprits de ce temps ...\" of Jesuit François Garasse, and \"Quaestiones celeberrimae in Genesim cum accurata explicatione ...\", of Father Marin Mersenne. The two works, though, instead of turning off the voice of the philosopher, boosted it in an environment that was obviously ready to receive, discuss and recognise the validity of his claims.\n\nIn that same year the name of Vanini was again brought to the attention of French culture during the sensational trial of the poet Théophile de Viau, whose outlook had striking similarities with Vaninian thought.\n\nIn 1624, the monk Marin Mersenne returned to attacking the philosophy of Vanini, analyzing some statements in chapter X of his \"L'Impiétè des Déistes, Athées et Libertins de ce temps, combatuë, et renversee de point en point par raisons tirées de la Philosophie, et de la Theologie\", in which the theologian expresses his judgment of the works of Girolamo Cardano and Giordano Bruno.\n\nEven Leibniz, another opponent of libertinism, was strongly opposed to Vanini, considering him evil, a fool and a charlatan.\n\nEnglish intellectuals showed interest in the ideas of Vanini, and it was especially with the work of Charles Blount that Vanini's ideas entered English culture, becoming a cornerstone of libertinism and deism in seventeenth century England.\n\nAn unpublished manuscript in the municipal library of Avignon preserves \"Observations sur Lucilio Vanini\" written by Joseph Louis Dominique de Cambis, Marquis de Velleron, but provides only uncertain information on the philosopher, largely rectified by recent studies. In this same period a manuscript copy of the \"Amphitheatrum\", was made or commissioned by Joseph Uriot, which later came to the library of the Duke of Württemberg; currently it is in the Württembergische Landesbibliothek in Stuttgart. Another manuscript copy of the same work is in the Staats und Universitätbibliothek in Hamburg, reflecting the continued interest in the thought of Vanini in German culture.\n\nIn 1730, the press in London was given a biography of Vanini with an extract of his works, entitled \"The life of Lucilio (alias Julius Caesar) Vanini, burnt for atheism at Toulouse. With an abstract of his writings.\" The work debates Vanini's ideas, recognising much merit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58048254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58048254", "title": "Marutthuvan Dhamodharanar", "text": "Marutthuvan Dhamodharanar\n\nUraiyūr Maruthuvan Thāmōtharanār (Tamil: உறையூர் மருத்துவன் தாமோதரனார்) was a poet of the Sangam period, to whom 6 verses of the Sangam literature have been attributed, including verse 11 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\nDhamodharanar, known in full as Uraiyur Marutthuvan Dhamodharanar, lived in Uraiyur and was a physician by profession, hence came to be called thus. He was known as a worshiper of Lord Vishnu. He has sung in praise of the Chola King Kurappalli Thunjiya Perunthirumavalavan and Pittan Kottran in verses 60, 170, and 321 of the Purananuru. He is believed to be the contemporary of Sangam poets Kovoor Kilar, Madalan Madurai Kumaranar, and Kaveri Poompattanatthu Kaari Kannanar, since these poets, too, have sung on the Chola ruler.\n\nMarutthuvan Dhamodharanar has written 6 Sangam verses, including 3 in Purananuru (verses 60, 170, and 321), 2 in Agananuru (verses 133 and 257), and 1 in Tiruvalluva Maalai (verse 11).\n\n"}
{"id": "3193700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3193700", "title": "Meta-epistemology", "text": "Meta-epistemology\n\nMeta-epistemology is a metaphilosophical study of the subject, matter, methods and aims of epistemology and of approaches to understanding and structuring our knowledge of knowledge itself.\n\nIn epistemology, there are two basic meta-epistemological approaches: traditional \"normative\" epistemology, and naturalized epistemology.\n\nTraditional epistemology has been concerned with \"justification\". According to the traditional model of knowledge, some proposition \"p\" is knowledge if and only if:\n\nSince the time of Descartes, who sought to establish the criteria by which true beliefs could be acquired, and to determine those beliefs we are in fact justified in believing, the primary epistemological project has been the elucidation of the justificatory condition in the classic tripartite conception of knowledge (i.e. justified true belief).\n\nNaturalized epistemology had its beginnings in the twentieth century with W. V. Quine. Quine's proposal, which is commonly called \"Replacement Naturalism,\" is to excise every trace of normativity from the epistemological body. Quine wanted to merge epistemology with empirical psychology such that every epistemological statement would be replaced by a psychological statement.\n\nEpistemology is the study, or theory of knowledge, including the questions: What is knowledge? How is or should it be acquired, tested, stored, revised, updated, and retrieved?\n\nSome goals of meta-epistemology are to identify inaccurate traditional assumptions, or hitherto overlooked scope for generalization. Thus whereas epistemology has usually been seen as a branch of philosophy, the discussion below also takes examples from biology which seem equivalent in relevant ways. Also, insofar as philosophy \"is\" involved, there may be a case for extending it beyond its traditional domain of word-based definitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "3013461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3013461", "title": "Metaknowledge", "text": "Metaknowledge\n\nMetaknowledge or meta-knowledge is knowledge about a preselected knowledge.\n\nFor the reason of different definitions of knowledge in the subject matter literature, meta-information may or may not be included in meta-knowledge. Detailed cognitive, systemic and epistemic study of human knowledge requires a distinguishing of these concepts.\n\nMeta-knowledge is a fundamental conceptual instrument in such research and scientific domains as, knowledge engineering, knowledge management, and others dealing with study and operations on knowledge, seen as a unified object/entities, abstracted from local conceptualizations and terminologies.\nExamples of the first-level individual meta-knowledge are methods of planning, modeling, tagging, learning and every modification of a domain knowledge. \nIndeed, universal meta-knowledge frameworks have to be valid for the organization of meta-levels of individual meta-knowledge.\n\nMetaknowledge may be automatically harvested from electronic publication archives, to reveal patterns in research, relationships between researchers and institutions and to identify contradictory results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22035894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22035894", "title": "Paradox of analysis", "text": "Paradox of analysis\n\nThe paradox of analysis is a paradox that concerns how an analysis can be both correct and informative. Although the problem takes its origin from the conflict in Plato's \"Meno\", it was formulated in its complete form by philosopher G. E. Moore in his book \"Principia Ethica\", and first named by C. H. Langford in his 1942 article \"The Notion of Analysis in Moore's Philosophy\".\n\nA conceptual analysis is something like the definition of a word. However, unlike a standard dictionary definition (which may list examples or talk about related terms as well), a completely correct analysis of a concept in terms of others seems like it should have exactly the same meaning as the original concept. Thus, in order to be correct, the analysis should be able to be used in any context where the original concept is used, without changing the meaning of the discussion in context. Conceptual analyses of this sort are a major goal of analytic philosophy.\n\nHowever, if such an analysis is to be useful, it should be informative. That is, it should tell us something we don't already know (or at least, something one can imagine someone might not already know). But it seems that no conceptual analysis can both meet the requirement of correctness and of informativeness, on these understandings of the requirements.\n\nTo see why, consider a potential simple analysis:\n\nOne can say that (1) is correct because the expression \"brother\" represents the same concept as the expression \"male sibling,\" and (1) seems to be informative because the two expressions are not identical. And if (1) is truly correct, then \"brother\" and \"male sibling\" must be interchangeable:\n\nYet (2) is not informative, so either (1) is not informative, or the two expressions used in (1) are not interchangeable (because they change an informative analysis into an uninformative one) so (1) is not actually correct. In other words, if the analysis is correct and informative, then (1) and (2) must be essentially equal, but this is not true because (2) is not informative. Therefore, it seems an analysis cannot be both correct and informative at the same time.\n\nOne way to resolve this paradox is to redefine what is an analysis. In explaining the paradox, a potential analysis is assumed to be a relation between concepts rather than the verbal expressions used to illustrate them. If the verbal expression is part of the analysis, then we shouldn't expect complete intersubstitutivity even in cases of correct analyses. However, this response seems to move the notion of analysis into mere linguistic definition, rather than doing interesting work with concepts.\n\nAnother response is to bite the bullet and just say that correct analyses are uninformative — which then raises the question of what positive cognitive notion should be used instead of this one, if any.\n\nOne further response would be to take Willard Van Orman Quine's position and reject the notion of conceptual analysis altogether. This is a natural response to the rejection of the analytic–synthetic distinction. The fact that many philosophers have followed Quine in this direction is part of the reason that many now say that the term \"analytic philosophy\" is a misnomer.\n\n"}
{"id": "23336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23336", "title": "Parchment", "text": "Parchment\n\nParchment is a writing material made from specially prepared untanned skins of animals—primarily sheep, calves, and goats. It has been used as a writing medium for over two millennia. Vellum is a finer quality parchment made from the skins of young animals such as lambs and young calves.\n\nIt may be called animal membrane by libraries and museums that wish to avoid distinguishing between \"parchment\" and the more restricted term vellum (see below).\n\nToday the term \"parchment\" is often used in non-technical contexts to refer to any animal skin, particularly goat, sheep or cow, that has been scraped or dried under tension. The term originally referred only to the skin of sheep and, occasionally, goats. The equivalent material made from calfskin, which was of finer quality, was known as vellum (from the Old French \"velin\" or \"vellin\", and ultimately from the Latin \"vitulus\", meaning a calf); while the finest of all was \"uterine vellum\", taken from a calf foetus or stillborn calf.\n\nSome authorities have sought to observe these distinctions strictly: for example, lexicographer Samuel Johnson in 1755, and master calligrapher Edward Johnston in 1906. However, when old books and documents are encountered it may be difficult, without scientific analysis, to determine the precise animal origin of a skin either in terms of its species, or in terms of the animal's age. In practice, therefore, there has long been considerable blurring of the boundaries between the different terms. In 1519, William Horman wrote in his \"Vulgaria\": \"That stouffe that we wrytte upon, and is made of beestis skynnes, is somtyme called parchement, somtyme velem, somtyme abortyve, somtyme membraan.\" In Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" (written c. 1599–1602) the following exchange occurs:\nLee Ustick, writing in 1936, commented that:\nIt is for these reasons that many modern conservators, librarians and archivists prefer to use either the broader term \"parchment\", or the neutral term \"animal membrane\".\n\nThe word parchment evolved (via the Latin \"pergamenum\" and the French \"parchemin\") from the name of the city of Pergamon which was a thriving center of parchment production during the Hellenistic period. The city so dominated the trade that a legend later arose which said that parchment had been invented in Pergamon to replace the use of papyrus which had become monopolized by the rival city of Alexandria. This account, originating in the writings of Pliny the Elder (\"Natural History\", Book XII, 69–70), is dubious because parchment had been in use in Anatolia and elsewhere long before the rise of Pergamon.\n\nHerodotus mentions writing on skins as common in his time, the 5th century BC; and in his \"Histories\" (v.58) he states that the Ionians of Asia Minor had been accustomed to give the name of \"skins\" (\"diphtherai\") to books; this word was adapted by Hellenized Jews to describe scrolls. In the 2nd century BC, a great library was set up in Pergamon that rivaled the famous Library of Alexandria. As prices rose for papyrus and the reed used for making it was over-harvested towards local extinction in the two nomes of the Nile delta that produced it, Pergamon adapted by increasing use of parchment.\n\nWriting on prepared animal skins had a long history, however. David Diringer noted that \"the first mention of Egyptian documents written on leather goes back to the Fourth Dynasty (c. 2550–2450 BC), but the earliest of such documents extant are: a fragmentary roll of leather of the Sixth Dynasty (c. 24th century BC), unrolled by Dr. H. Ibscher, and preserved in the Cairo Museum; a roll of the Twelfth Dynasty (c. 1990–1777 BC) now in Berlin; the mathematical text now in the British Museum (MS. 10250); and a document of the reign of Ramses II (early thirteenth century BC).\" Though the Assyrians and the Babylonians impressed their cuneiform on clay tablets, they also wrote on parchment from the 6th century BC onward. Rabbinic literature traditionally maintains that the institution of employing parchment made of animal hides for the writing of ritual objects such as the Torah, mezuzah, and tefillin is Sinaitic in origin, with special designations for different types of parchment such as gevil and klaf.\n\nEarly Islamic texts are also found on parchment.\n\nIn the later Middle Ages, especially the 15th century, parchment was largely replaced by paper for most uses except luxury manuscripts, some of which were also on paper. New techniques in paper milling allowed it to be much cheaper than parchment; it was made of textile rags and of very high quality. With the advent of printing in the later fifteenth century, the demands of printers far exceeded the supply of animal skins for parchment.\n\nThere was a short period during the introduction of printing where parchment and paper were used at the same time, with parchment (in fact vellum) the more expensive luxury option, preferred by rich and conservative customers. Although most copies of the Gutenberg Bible are on paper, some were printed on parchment; 12 of the 48 surviving copies, with most incomplete. In 1490, Johannes Trithemius preferred the older methods, because \"handwriting placed on parchment will be able to endure a thousand years. But how long will printing last, which is dependent on paper? For if ... it lasts for two hundred years that is a long time.\" In fact high quality paper from this period has survived 500 years or more very well, if kept in reasonable library conditions.\n\nThe heyday of parchment use was during the medieval period, but there has been a growing revival of its use among artists since the late 20th century. Although parchment never stopped being used (primarily for governmental documents and diplomas) it had ceased to be a primary choice for artist's supports by the end of 15th century Renaissance. This was partly due to its expense and partly due to its unusual working properties. Parchment consists mostly of collagen. When the water in paint media touches parchment's surface, the collagen melts slightly, forming a raised bed for the paint, a quality highly prized by some artists.\n\nParchment is also extremely affected by its environment and changes in humidity, which can cause buckling. Books with parchment pages were bound with strong wooden boards and clamped tightly shut by metal (often brass) clasps or leather straps; this acted to keep the pages pressed flat despite humidity changes. Such metal fittings continued to be found on books as decorative features even after the use of paper made them unnecessary.\n\nSome contemporary artists prize the changeability of parchment, noting that the material seems alive and like an active participant in making artwork. To support the needs of the revival of use by artists, a revival in the art of preparing individual skins is also underway. Hand-prepared skins are usually preferred by artists because they are more uniform in surface and have fewer oily spots which can cause long-term cracking of paint than mass-produced parchment, which is usually made for lamp shades, furniture, or other interior design purposes.\n\nThe radiocarbon dating techniques that are used on papyrus can be applied to parchment as well. They do not date the age of the writing but the preparation of the parchment itself. While it is feasibly possible also to radio carbon date certain kinds of ink, it is extremely difficult to do due to the fact that they are generally present on the text only in trace amounts, and it is hard to get a carbon sample of them without the carbon in the parchment contaminating it.\n\nParchment is prepared from pelt – i.e. wet, unhaired, and limed skin – by drying at ordinary temperatures under tension, most commonly on a wooden frame known as a stretching frame.\n\nAfter being flayed, the skin is soaked in water for about a day. This removes blood and grime from the skin and prepares it for a dehairing liquor. The dehairing liquor was originally made of rotted, or fermented, vegetable matter, like beer or other liquors, but by the Middle Ages an unhairing bath included lime. Today, the lime solution is occasionally sharpened by the use of sodium sulfide. The liquor bath would have been in wooden or stone vats and the hides stirred with a long wooden pole to avoid human contact with the alkaline solution. Sometimes the skins would stay in the unhairing bath for eight or more days depending how concentrated and how warm the solution was kept—unhairing could take up to twice as long in winter. The vat was stirred two or three times a day to ensure the solution's deep and uniform penetration. Replacing the lime water bath also sped the process up. However, if the skins were soaked in the liquor too long, they would be weakened and not able to stand the stretching required for parchment.\n\nAfter soaking in water to make the skins workable, the skins were placed on a stretching frame. A simple frame with nails would work well in stretching the pelts. The skins could be attached by wrapping small, smooth rocks in the skins with rope or leather strips. Both sides would be left open to the air so they could be scraped with a sharp, semi-lunar knife to remove the last of the hair and get the skin to the right thickness. The skins, which were made almost entirely of collagen, would form a natural glue while drying and once taken off the frame they would keep their form. The stretching aligned the fibres to be more nearly parallel to the surface.\n\nTo make the parchment more aesthetically pleasing or more suitable for the scribes, special treatments were used. According to Reed there were a variety of these treatments. Rubbing pumice powder into the flesh side of parchment while it was still wet on the frame was used to make it smooth and to modify the surface to enable inks to penetrate more deeply. Powders and pastes of calcium compounds were also used to help remove grease so the ink would not run. To make the parchment smooth and white, thin pastes (starchgrain or staunchgrain) of lime, flour, egg whites and milk were rubbed into the skins.\n\nMeliora di Curci in her paper \"The History and Technology of Parchment Making\" notes that parchment was not always white. \"Cennini, a 15th century craftsman provides recipes to tint parchment a variety of colours including purple, indigo, green, red and peach.\" The Early medieval Codex Argenteus and Codex Vercellensis, the Stockholm Codex Aureus and the Codex Brixianus give a range of luxuriously produced manuscripts all on purple vellum, in imitation of Byzantine examples, like the Rossano Gospels, Sinope Gospels and the Vienna Genesis, which at least at one time are believed to have been reserved for Imperial commissions.\n\nMany techniques for parchment repair exist, to restore creased, torn, or incomplete parchments.\n\nDuring the seventh through the ninth centuries, many earlier parchment manuscripts were scrubbed and scoured to be ready for rewriting, and often the earlier writing can still be read. These recycled parchments are called palimpsests. Later, more thorough techniques of scouring the surface irretrievably lost the earlier text.\n\nThe way in which parchment was processed (from hide to parchment) has undergone a tremendous evolution based on time and location. Parchment and vellum are not the sole methods of preparing animal skins for writing. In the Babylonian Talmud (Bava Batra 14B) Moses writes the first Torah Scroll on the unsplit cow-hide called \"gevil\".\n\nParchment is still the only medium used by traditional religious Jews for Torah scrolls or tefilin and mezuzahs, and is produced by large companies in Israel. For those uses, only hides of kosher animals are permitted. Since there are many requirements for it being fit for the religious use, the liming is usually processed under supervision of a qualified Rabbi.\n\nIn some universities, the word parchment is still used to refer to the certificate (scroll) presented at graduation ceremonies, even though the modern document is printed on paper or thin card; although doctoral graduates may be given the option of having their scroll written by a calligrapher on vellum. The University of Notre Dame still uses animal parchment for its diplomas. Similarly, University of Glasgow and Heriot-Watt University use goat skin parchment for their degrees.\n\nVegetable (paper) parchment is made by passing a waterleaf (an unsized paper like blotters) made of pulp fibers into sulfuric acid. The sulfuric acid hydrolyses and solubilises the main natural organic polymer, cellulose, present in the pulp wood fibers. The paper web is then washed in water, which stops the hydrolysis of the cellulose and causes a kind of cellulose coating to form on the waterleaf. The final paper is dried. This coating is a natural non-porous cement, that gives to the vegetable parchment paper its resistance to grease and its semi-translucency.\n\nOther processes can be used to obtain grease-resistant paper, such as waxing the paper or using fluorine-based chemicals. Highly beating the fibers gives an even more translucent paper with the same grease resistance. Silicone and other coatings may also be applied to the parchment. A silicone-coating treatment produces a cross-linked material with high density, stability and heat resistance and low surface tension which imparts good anti-stick or release properties. Chromium salts can also be used to impart moderate anti-stick properties.\n\nHistorians believe that parchment craft originated as an art form in Europe during the fifteenth or sixteenth century. Parchment craft at that time occurred principally in Catholic communities, where crafts persons created lace-like items such as devotional pictures and communion cards. The craft developed over time, with new techniques and refinements being added. Until the sixteenth century, parchment craft was a European art form. However, missionaries and other settlers relocated to South America, taking parchment craft with them. As before, the craft appeared largely among the Catholic communities. Often, young girls receiving their first communion received gifts of handmade parchment crafts.\n\nAlthough the invention of the printing press led to a reduced interest in hand made cards and items, by the eighteenth century, people were regaining interest in detailed handwork. Parchment cards became larger in size and crafters began adding wavy borders and perforations. In the nineteenth century, influenced by French romanticism, parchment crafters began adding floral themes and cherubs and hand embossing.\n\nParchment craft today involves various techniques, including tracing a pattern with white or colored ink, embossing to create a raised effect, stippling, perforating, coloring and cutting. Parchment craft appears in hand made cards, as scrapbook embellishments, as bookmarks, lampshades, decorative small boxes, wall hangings and more.\n\nAn article published in 2009 by Timothy L. Stinson considered the possibilities of tracing the origin of medieval parchment manuscripts and codices through DNA analysis. The methodology would employ polymerase chain reaction to replicate a small DNA sample to a size sufficiently large for testing. A 2006 study had revealed the genetic signature of several Greek manuscripts to have \"goat-related sequences\". It might be possible to use these techniques to determine whether related library materials were made from genetically related animals (perhaps from the same herd).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50721132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50721132", "title": "Persecution of Sufis", "text": "Persecution of Sufis\n\nPersecution of Sufis and Sufism has included destruction of Sufi shrines and mosques, suppression of orders, murder, and discrimination against adherents in a number of Muslim-majority countries. The Turkish Republican state banned all Sufi orders and abolished their institutions in 1925 after Sufis opposed the new secular order. The Iranian Islamic Republic has harassed Shia Sufis, reportedly for their lack of support for the government doctrine of \"\" (i.e., that the supreme Shiite jurist should be the nation's political leader). \n\nIn most other Muslim countries, attacks on Sufis and especially their shrines have come from adherents of puritanical schools of thought who believe that practices such as celebration of the birthdays of Sufi saints, and dhikr (\"remembrance\" of God) ceremonies are bid‘ah or impure innovation, and polytheistic (Shirk).\n\nDuring the Safavid dynasty of Iran, \"both the wandering dervishes of 'low' Sufism\" and \"the philosopher-ulama of 'high' Sufism came under relentless pressure\" from powerful cleric Mohammad-Baqer Majlesi (d. 1110/1699). Majlesi—\"one of the most powerful and influential\" Twelver Shiʿi \"ulama\" \"of all time\"—was famous for (among other things), suppression of Sufism, which he and his followers believed paid insufficient attention to Shariah law. Prior to Majlesi's rise, Shia Islam and Sufism had been \"closely linked\".\n\nIn 1843, the Senussi Sufi were forced to flee Mecca and Medina and head to Sudan and Libya.\n\nAccording to a 2005 article in \"The Guardian\":\nIn recent years, shrines, and sometimes mosques, have been damaged or destroyed in many parts of the Muslim world. Some Sufi adherents have been killed as well. Ali Gomaa, a Sufi scholar and Grand Mufti of al-Azhar University, has criticized the destruction of shrines and public property as unacceptable.\n\nSince March 2005, 209 people have been killed and 560 injured in 29 different terrorist attacks targeting shrines devoted to Sufi saints in Pakistan, according to data compiled by the Center for Islamic Research Collaboration and Learning (CIRCLe, a think-tank based in Rawalpindi). At least as of 2010, the attacks have increased each year. Pro-Sufism Barelvis dominate Pakistan's religious landscape, and are victims of the anti-Sufi campaigns of the Deobandi according to author John R. Schmidt. Deobandi and Barelvi are the \"two major sub-sects\" of Sunni Muslims in South Asia that have clashed—sometimes violently—since the late 1970s in Pakistan. It is not clear whether Sufis are being persecuted by Barelvi or Deobandi state banned militant organizations, since both groups have been accused of anti-Shia terrorism.\n\nIn 2005, militant organizations began attacking \"symbols\" of the Barelvi community such as mosques, prominent religious leaders, and shrines.\n\n\n\nIn this predominately Muslim, traditionally Sufi region, some six places of worship have been either completely or partially burnt in \"mysterious fires\" in several months leading up to November 2012. The most prominent victim of damage was the Dastageer Sahib Sufi shrine in Srinagar which burned in June 2012, injuring 20. While investigators have so far found no sign of arson, according to journalist Amir Rana the fires have occurred within the context of a surging Salafi movement which preaches that \"Kashmiri tradition of venerating the tombs and relics of saints is outside the pale of Islam\".\n\nMourners outside the burning shrine cursed the Salafis for creating an atmosphere of hate, [while] some Salafis began posting incendiary messages on Facebook, terming the destruction of the shrine a \"divine act of God\".\n\nUnder the Al-Shabab rule in Somali, Sufi ceremonies were banned and shrines destroyed. As the power of Al-Shabab has waned, however, Sufi ceremonies are said to have \"re-emerged\". Ahlu Sunna Waljama'a Sufi militants, backed by Ethiopia and the federal government, control parts of central Somalia and some cities in the southern regions of Gedo and Bakool.\n\nIn the ancient city of Timbuktu, sometimes called \"the city of 333 saints\", UNESCO reports that as many as half of the city's shrines \"have been destroyed in a display of fanaticism\", as of July 2012. A spokesman for Ansar Dine has stated that \"the destruction is a divine order\", and that the group had plans to destroy every single Sufi shrine in the city, \"without exception\". In Gao and Kidal, as well as Timbuktu, Salafi Islamists have destroyed musical instruments and driven musicians into \"economic exile\" away from Mali.\n\nInternational Criminal Court Chief Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda described the Islamists' actions as a \"war crime\".\n\nA May 2010 ban by the ministry of awqaf (religious endowments) of centuries old Sufi dhikr gatherings (devoted to the remembrance of God, and including dancing and religious songs) has been described as a \"another victory for extreme Salafi thinking at the expense of Egypt's moderate Sufism\". Clashes followed at Cairo's Al-Hussein Mosque and al-Sayyida Zeinab mosques between members of Sufi orders and security forces who forced them to evacuate the two shrines. In 2009, the moulid of al-Sayyida Zeinab, Muhammad's granddaughter, was banned ostensibly over concern over the spread of swine flu but also at the urging of Salafis.\n\nAccording to Gaber Qassem, deputy of the Sufi Orders, approximately 14 shrines have been violated in Egypt since the January 2011 revolution. According to Sheikh Tarek El-Rifai, head of the Rifai Sufi Order, a number of Salafis have prevented Sufi prayers in Al-Haram. Sheikh Rifai said that the order's lawyer has filed a report at the Al-Haram police station to that effect. In early April 2011, a Sufi march from Al-Azhar Mosque to Al-Hussein Mosque was followed by a massive protest before Al-Hussein Mosque, \"expressing outrage at the destruction\" of Sufi shrines. The Islamic Research Centre of Egypt, led by Grand Imam of Al-Azhar Ahmed El-Tayeb, has also denounced the attacks on the shrines. According to the Muslim Brotherhood website ikhwanweb.com, in 2011 \"a memorandum was submitted to the Armed Forces\" citing 20 \"encroachments\" on Sufi shrines.\n\nOn 24 November 2017, terrorists attacked the Sufi-connected al-Rawda mosque. Most of the victims were Sufis; the mosque is associated with the Jaririya order.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2011 Libyan Civil War, several Sufi religious sites in Libya were deliberately destroyed or damaged. In the weeks leading up to September 2012, \"armed groups motivated by their religious views\" attacked Sufi religious sites across the country, \"destroying several mosques and tombs of Sufi religious leaders and scholars\". Perpetrators were described as \"groups that have a strict Islamic ideology where they believe that graves and shrines must be desecrated.\" Libyan Interior Minister Fawzi Abdel A'al, was quoted as saying, \"If all shrines in Libya are destroyed so we can avoid the death of one person [in clashes with security forces], then that is a price we are ready to pay.\"\n\nIn September 2012, three people were killed in clashes between residents of Rajma, southeast of Benghazi, and Salafist Islamists trying to destroy a Sufi shrine in Rajma, the Sidi al-Lafi mausoleum. In August 2012 the United Nations cultural agency UNESCO urged Libyan authorities to protect Sufi mosques and shrines from attacks by Islamic hardliners \"who consider the traditional mystical school of Islam heretical\". The attacked have \"wrecked mosques in at least three cities and desecrated many graves of revered Sufi scholars\".\n\nTunisian Sufis largely adher to the Shadiliyya order. Despite the rise of Salafism and extremists in Tunisia, Sufism is still largely ingrained in its culture. Media site Al-Monitor reported that 39 Sufi shrines were destroyed or desecrated from the 2011 revolution to January 2013. For Tunisians Sufism is a way of collective healing and progress. The polling agency Sigma indicated that 43.1% Tunisians visit a Sufi shrine at least once per year. Sufi Shrines(Zawiya) in Tunisia exceed the number of mosques.\n\nSaid Atsayev—also known as Sheikh Said Afandi al-Chirkavi—a prominent 74-year-old Sufi Muslim spiritual leader in Dagestan Russia, was killed by a suicide bombing August 28, 2012 along with six of his followers. His murder follows \"similar religiously motivated killings\" in Dagestan and regions of ex-Soviet Central Asia, targeting religious leaders—not necessarily Sufi—who disapprove of violent jihad. Afandi had survived previous attempts on his life and was reportedly in the process of negotiating a peace agreement between the Sufis and Salafis.\n\nMatthijs van den Bos discusses the status of Sufism in Iran in the 19th and 20th century. According to Seyed Mostafa Azmayesh, an expert on Sufism and the representative of the Ni'matullāhī order outside Iran, a campaign against the Sufis in Iran (or at least Shia Sufis) began in 2005. Several books were published arguing that because Sufis follow their own spiritual leaders they do not believe in the Islamic state's theocratic principle of the and should therefore be treated as second-class citizens, not allowed to have government jobs, or be fired if they do. Since then the Ni'matullāhī order—Iran's largest Sufi order—has come under increasing state pressure. Three of its khanqahs have been demolished. Officials accused it of not having building permits and of narcotics possession—charges which the Sufis reject.\n\nThe government of Iran is considering an outright ban on Sufism, according to the 2009 Annual Report of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom.\nIt also reports:\nIn 2009 the mausoleum of the 19th century Sufi poet Nasir Ali and an adjoining Sufi prayer house were bulldozed.\n\nNot all Sufis in Iran have been subject to government pressure. Sunni dervish orders—such as the Qhaderi dervishes—in the Sunni-populated parts of the country are thought by some to be seen as allies of the government against Al-Qaeda.\n\n"}
{"id": "10848745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10848745", "title": "Philip Hallie", "text": "Philip Hallie\n\nPhilip Paul Hallie (1922–1994) was an author, philosopher and professor at Wesleyan University for 32 years. During World War II he served in the US Army. His degrees were from Harvard, Oxford (where he was a Rhodes Scholar at Jesus College from 1949 to 1951) and Grinnell College.\n\nHe developed the model of institutional cruelty.\n\n\"Institutional cruelty\" is a model developed by Philip Hallie, who believes ethics are rooted in passion and common sense rather than in technical science.\n\nHallie defines \"institutional cruelty\" as a persistent pattern of humiliation that endures for years in a community, but the victimizer and the victim find ways to downplay the harm that is being done. Both the victim and the victimizer justify cruel actions based on what they have been led to believe is \"actual\" inferiority. Hallie argues that cruelty is created by an imbalance of power, or hierarchy. According to his view, the opposite of institutionalized cruelty is freedom from the cruel relationship, not just kindness.\n\nInstitutional cruelty demotes individuality. \"Commitment [to an institution] that overrides all sentimentality transforms cruelty and destruction into moral nobility, and commitment is the lifeblood of an institution,\" (Hallie \"From Cruelty to Goodness\" 7).\n\nHallie's work generally explores the nature of ethics—good and evil, cruelty and kindness. His writing and statements have made particular reference to the admiration he holds for members of the French Resistance at Le Chambon-sur-Lignon.\n\n\nIn \"From Cruelty to Goodness\" he defines cruelty by what it depends upon to exist. He explains that all cruelty derives from a deficit in power. Examples are used such as Nazi concentration camps and slavery. \"The power of the majority and the weakness of a minority were at the center of institutional cruelty of slavery and Nazi anti-Semitism.\" He also emphasizes that deep humiliation in institutionalized cruelty can be just as hurtful to the victim as episodic cruelty, cruelty where both the victim and the victimizer are aware of the harm being committed.\nHe then goes on to purport that the redress of stopping cruelty isn't enough to negate or perfectly oppose cruelty. Hospitality is the only cure for cruelty. \"It lies in unsentimental, efficacious love.\" This is described as not only \"being your brothers keeper\" (protecting the weak), but also as staying true to the \"negative injunctions against killing and betraying.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "952962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952962", "title": "Republic of New Afrika", "text": "Republic of New Afrika\n\nThe Republic of New Afrika (RNA), founded in 1968 as the Republic of New Africa (RNA), is a black nationalist organization and black separatist movement popularized by black supremacist groups in the United States. The larger New Afrika movement in particular has three goals:\n\n\nThe vision for this country was first promulgated by the Malcolm X Society on March 31, 1968, at a Black Government Conference held in Detroit, Michigan. The conference participants drafted a constitution and declaration of independence. Its proponents lay claim to five Southern states: Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and South Carolina; and to the black-majority counties adjacent to this area in Arkansas, Texas, North Carolina, Tennessee and Florida.\n\nThe Black Government Conference was convened by the Malcolm X Society and the Group on Advanced Leadership (GOAL), two influential Detroit-based black organizations with broad followings. The attendees produced a Declaration of Independence (signed by 100 conferees out of approximately 500), a constitution, and the framework for a provisional government. Robert F. Williams, a controversial human rights advocate then living in exile in China, was chosen as the first president of the provisional government; attorney Milton Henry (a student of Malcolm X's teachings) was named first vice president; and Betty Shabazz, widow of Malcolm X, served as second vice president.\n\nThe Provisional Government of the Republic of New Afrika (PG-RNA) advocated/advocates a form of cooperative economics through the building of New Communities—named after the Ujamaa concept promoted by Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere. It proposed militant self-defense through the building of local people's militias and a standing army to be called the Black Legion; and the building of racially based organizations to champion the right of self-determination for people of black African descent.\n\nThe organization was involved in numerous controversial issues. For example, it attempted to assist Oceanhill-Brownsville area in Brooklyn to secede from the United States during the 1968 conflict over control of public schools. Additionally, it was involved with shootouts at New Bethel Baptist Church in 1969 (during the one-year anniversary of the founding) and another in Jackson, Mississippi, in 1971. (It had announced that the capital of the Republic would be in Hinds County, Mississippi, located on a member's farm.) In the confrontations, law-enforcement officials were killed and injured. Organization members were prosecuted for the crimes.\n\nThe US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) listed the Republic of New Afrika as a seditious group due to its advocacy of secession. It conducted raids on its meetings, which led to violent confrontations. It repeatedly arrested and prosecuted certain RNA leaders noted above. The group was a target of the COINTELPRO operation by the FBI, as well as Red Squad activities of Michigan State Police and the Detroit Police Department, among other cities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5984849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5984849", "title": "Rule of Rescue", "text": "Rule of Rescue\n\nThe Rule of Rescue is a term coined by A.R. Jonsen in 1986 that is used in a variety of bioethics contexts:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53486474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53486474", "title": "Shirzad Peik Herfeh", "text": "Shirzad Peik Herfeh\n\nShirzad Peik Herfeh (, , born: 22 February 1980, Rasht, Iran) is an Iranian philosopher, author, translator and university professor at Imam Khomeini International University. He is best known for his Persian translation of the \"Consequentialisim\" written by Julia Driver and \"On Adam Smith\" written by Jack Russell Weinstein and many of articles he translated to Persian language from English, in the fields of philosophy; especially philosophy of morality. Also, he is active as a manager in the \"Iranian Association of Philosophy\" and Institute for Research in Philosophy as a life member. Peik Herfeh taught philosophy as a faculty member in the philosophy group of the Imam Khomeini International University, Faculty of Humanities. Peik Herfeh also wrote a variety of articles from Iranian School and Islamic Philosophy to Western Analytic and moral philosophy which is his profession. As an author, Shirzad Peik Herfeh wrote two books in the fields of moral philosophy which called as Borders of Ethics () and Utilitarianism (). Both of them released in Iran in 2012 and 2015 respectively.\n\nShirzad Peik Herfeh was born on 22 February 1980 in Rasht, Northern Iran, and obtained his bachelor in the fields of English language and litreture from Shiraz University, his master in philosophy in Imam Khomeini International University and his PhD in philosophy on 13 January 2010 from Allameh Tabataba'i University, Tehran, Iran.\n\nHe has worked as a lecturer in several universities in Tehran, including Allameh Tabataba'i University. He was also an interpreter at several bilingual philosophical conferences, such as “International Conference on Religious Epistemology”, “International Conference on Mulla Sadra & Transcendent Philosophy” and “International Conference on Two Hundred Years after Kant.” He has worked as a researcher, translator, and interpreter for Iranian philosophical institutes like “Institute for Humanities and Cultural Studies”, “Iranian Institute of Philosophy,” and “Sadra Islamic Philosophy Institute.” Now, he is a faculty member and assistant professor of department of philosophy at Imam Khomeini International University (IKIU), Qazvin, Iran. He has published more than 20 books and research papers, including The Limits of Morality (Tehran, Ney, 2012), An Analysis and Critique of Classical and Modern Types of Utilitarianism (Tehran, Negah-e Mo’aser, 2015), and Persian translation of Julia Driver’s Consequentialism (Tehran, Hekmat, 2015), and J. R. Weinstein’s On Adam Smith (Tehran, IHCS, 2013). His expertise, research interests, and (Persian, English, and Russian) publications are focused in the areas of moral, political and legal philosophy; harm and liberty-limiting principles, comparative analysis between pre-Islamic Iranian teachings, Western philosophies and philosophers; comparative analysis between Islamic ethics and jurisprudence and Western moral philosophy; and comparative analysis between the main after-Islamic Iranian philosophical traditions – esp. The Peripatetic School, the Illumination School and the Transcendent Philosophy - and Western philosophies and philosophers. He has taught students in these areas of expertise and has a particular interest in developing his theory entitled “the moral permissibility of subjective harm” for establishing peace and tolerance in the world – esp, in the Middle East.\nPeik Herfeh was a member of jury and chairman of “ethics panel” in “2010 International Conference on World Philosophy Day.” He is also a senior member of “International Economics Development Research Center (IEDRC),” Kowloon, Hong Kong.\n\nShirzad Peik Herfeh is an Iranian philosopher, intellectual, moral, political, and legal theorist. Also an author, translator and a university professor. He is best known for his theories for “peace” and “tolerance” in the world and in the Middle East, such as “The Moral Permissibility of Subjective Harms as a Base for Peace & Tolerance”, “A New Synthetic Model as a Refinement for the Do/Allow Distinction”, “An Appeal to Mysticism for Solving the Problem of Fanaticism”, “The Moral Limits of the Criminal Law;” and his own “Harm Principle” in which he criticizes J. S. Mill’s “Harm Principle,” analyzes different kinds of “harm” and categorizes them into two different categories: “subjective” & “objective.” He is also against “Legal Moralism” and “Legal Paternalism.”\nPeik Herfeh is also known for introducing the newest and hottest theories in moral, political, and legal philosophy to Persian-speaking and Muslim world, and his Persian translations of English books and papers including Julia Driver’s Consequentialism and Jack Russell Weinstein’s On Adam Smith.\nHe is also the manager of “IPA: Iranian Philosophers Association” in which he tries to criticize what he calls Pop philosophy and open a third front for philosophy in Iran as well as “Academic Philosophy” and “Pop Philosophy.”\nPeik Herfeh has taught philosophy for many years in Iran. Now, he is a faculty member in the department of philosophy at Imam Khomeini International University (IKIU). Peik Herfeh has also written a variety of articles from Iranian Zoroastrian pre-Islamic and post-Islamic thoughts to Western Philosophy. \nHis first Persian book entitled “The Borders of Ethics” (Persian: مرزهای اخلاق‎‎) has been the “award winner” of the 20th Book of the Season Award in the Islamic Republic of Iran. It has been published in 2012 by Ney publication, the best Iranian publication in humanities and social sciences. His last Persian book entitled “The Origins and Different Types of Classical & Modern Utilitarianism” has been published by Nashr-e Negah-e Mo’aser. In this very book, he tries to find a reasonable answer for a variety of questions about “utilitarianism,” such as: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46260008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46260008", "title": "Sitaramdas Omkarnath", "text": "Sitaramdas Omkarnath\n\nSitaramdas Omkarnath (17 February 1892 – 6 December 1982) was an Indian saint from Bengal He preached the importance of chanting Nam, wrote more than 150 books to promote the essence of Indian scriptures, built more than 60 temples and ashrams all across India, and founded the spiritual organisation Akhil Bharat Jaiguru Sampradaya He started many groups, temples, mutts, both within and outside the Sampradaya—like local organisations, such as Delhi Jaiguru Sampraday, spiritual groups like Shyam Sangha, Sati Sangha, Yuvak Sangha, Bidwat Sangha, Satya Dharma Prachar Sangha, etc. He was also the initiator of multiple magazines like \"Pather Alo\", \"Devjan\", \"JaiGuru\", \"Arya Nari\", \"Paramananda\", and \"Mother\".\n\nSitaramdas Omkarnath was born in an uncle's house at Keota village in Hooghly district, West Bengal, on 6 Falgun 1892. His given name was Probodh Chandra Chattopadhyay, and his parents were Pranhari Chatopadhyay and Mallabati Devi. Pranhari was a pious Brahmin and worked as a village physician in Dumurdaha, Hooghly district. The \"kuladevata\" (family deity) was Brajanath (Krishna).\n\nIn 1896, his mother Malyavati Devi died. His father then married Giribala Devi, and himself died in 1912.\n\nOmkarnath attended a village school but then determined that Dasarathidev Yogeswar of Digsui village should be his guru.Though he was admitted to the Bandel Church School for a quite of time to pursue Western Education, he left that school for is earnest interest in Indian Sankritised Education system. Thereafter he studied at Yogeswar's house, where he undertook daily chores as well as spiritual education. In 1918, Probodh was meditating at about midnight when he visualised the god Shiva along with the Durga, the Divine Mother.\n\nLater, Omkarnath visualised his previous birth on the day of Saraswati puja. Through this he came to believe that he was a famous worshipper of the goddess Kali in previous life.\n\nGuru Dasarathidev had named him \"Sitaram\", the name \"Omkarnath\" was a divine revelation which was later formally conferred by Swami Dhruvananda Giri. Thus, Probodh came to be known as Sitaramdas Omkarnath. He had heard the \"Hare Krishna\" MahaMantra as a Divine Sound during his austere meditation in a cave at Ramashram, Dumurdaha, Hooghly. Later, he heard a divine voice say \"O Sage, dive in\". Still Sitaram was not ready for giving spiritual initiation to masses, and he waited for direct command. At Puri, Orissa, Sitaram visualised Jagannath in a halo and Jagannath gave the instruction — \"Go, Go, Go and give the Name\". Thereafter, Sitaram started spreading the Lord's name on a mass scale.\n\nAfter getting the alleged Divine instruction, Omkarnath began to preach Nam all across India . Temples were established and renovated, the poor were fed, clothes were distributed, help was given to the fathers of marriageable daughters, taking on the responsibility of lifetime maintenance of hundreds of poverty-stricken families, establishment of free schools for poor students, setting up 29 Akhanda Naam Kirtan centres across India, establishing temples and ashrams, and several other activities of the kind went on continuously.\n\nMillions of men and women took spiritual initiation from Sitaram. His reputation spread and people gathered in large numbers wherever he resided. Sitaram was respected by contemporaries such as Anandamayi Ma, Mohanananda Brahmachari, Dalai Lama, Vilayat Inayat Khan, Swami Chidananda, Jain Muni Sushil Kumar and others.\n\nAccording to Omkarnath,\n\nSitaramdas Omkarnath's spiritual philosophy encompassed Bhakti, Jnana, Karma Yoga, Kriya Yoga and all segments of ancient Indian religion, with emphasis on Nam [Lord's Name]. Sitaramdas did not promote conversion, but guided all seekers on the path of their respective religion. He said- 'The paths may differ, but HE is not different.' By holding onto the Holy Name of Lord, and by performing the duties prescribed by religion of oneself, everybody can attain the Supreme Truth. \n\nThe teachings of Omkarnath derive from his personal experiences, revealed in the course of a lifelong and continual spiritual practice. His teachings were compiled by Kinkar Omananda (alias Madhav Swamiji), his closest monastic disciple.\n\nMany of unexplained incidents associated with Omkarnath have been documented in books and newspapers by prominent personalities. Among these are:\n\n\nOmkarnath died in the early hours of 6 December 1982. His body was placed at Sri Ramashram, Dumurdaha, so that people could pay their respects. He was cremated on a sandalwood pyre on 8 December.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4275935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4275935", "title": "Sleeping Beauty problem", "text": "Sleeping Beauty problem\n\nThe Sleeping Beauty problem is a puzzle in decision theory in which an ideally rational epistemic agent is to be woken once or twice according to the toss of a coin, once if heads and twice if tails, and asked her degree of belief for the coin having come up heads. \n\nThe problem was originally formulated in unpublished work in the mid 1980s by Arnold Zuboff (work that was later published as \"One Self: The Logic of Experience\") followed by a paper by Adam Elga. A formal analysis of the problem of belief formation in decision problems with imperfect recall was provided first by Michele Piccione and Ariel Rubinstein in their paper: \"On the Interpretation of Decision Problems with Imperfect Recall\" where the \"paradox of the absent minded driver\" was first introduced and the Sleeping Beauty problem discussed as Example 5. The name \"Sleeping Beauty\" was given to the problem by Robert Stalnaker and was first used in extensive discussion in the Usenet newsgroup \"rec.puzzles\" in 1999.\n\nSleeping Beauty volunteers to undergo the following experiment and is told all of the following details: On Sunday she will be put to sleep. Once or twice, during the experiment, Beauty will be awakened, interviewed, and put back to sleep with an amnesia-inducing drug that makes her forget that awakening. A fair coin will be tossed to determine which experimental procedure to undertake: \nIn either case, she will be awakened on Wednesday without interview and the experiment ends.\n\nAny time Sleeping Beauty is awakened and interviewed she will not be able to tell which day it is or whether she has been awakened before. During the interview Beauty is asked: \"What is your credence now for the proposition that the coin landed heads?\"\n\nThis problem continues to produce ongoing debate.\n\nThe thirder position argues that the probability of heads is 1/3. Adam Elga argued for this position originally as follows: Suppose Sleeping Beauty is told and she comes to fully believe that the coin landed tails. By even a highly restricted principle of indifference, her credence that it is Monday should equal her credence that it is Tuesday since being in one situation would be subjectively indistinguishable from the other. In other words, P(Monday Tails) = P(Tuesday | Tails), and thus\n\nConsider now that Sleeping Beauty is told upon awakening and comes to fully believe that it is Monday. Guided by the objective chance of heads landing being equal to the chance of tails landing, it should therefore hold that P(Tails | Monday) = P(Heads | Monday), and thus\n\nSince these three outcomes are exhaustive and exclusive for one trial, the probability of each is one-third by the previous two steps in the argument.\n\nDavid Lewis responded to Elga's paper with the position that Sleeping Beauty's credence that the coin landed heads should be 1/2. Sleeping Beauty receives no new non-self-locating information throughout the experiment because she is told the details of the experiment. Since her credence before the experiment is P(Heads) = 1/2, she ought to continue to have a credence of P(Heads) = 1/2 since she gains no new relevant evidence when she wakes up during the experiment. This directly contradicts one of the thirder's premises, since it means P(Tails | Monday) = 1/3 and P(Heads | Monday) = 2/3.\n\nNick Bostrom argues that Sleeping Beauty does have new evidence about her future from Sunday: \"that she \"is\" now in it,\" but does not know whether it is Monday or Tuesday, so the halfer argument fails. In particular, she gains the information that it is not both Tuesday and the case that Heads was flipped.\n\nThe double halfer position argues that both P(Heads) and P(Heads | Monday) equal 1/2. Mikaël Cozic, in particular, argues that context-sensitive propositions like \"it is Monday\" are in general problematic for conditionalization and proposes the use of an imaging rule instead, which supports the double halfer position.\n\nNick Bostrom argues that the thirder position is implied by the Self-Indication Assumption.\n\nCredence about what precedes awakenings is a core question in connection with the anthropic principle.\n\nThis differs from the original in that there are one million and one wakings if tails comes up. It was formulated by Nick Bostrom.\n\nA non-fantastical variation called the Sailor's Child problem was introduced by Radford M. Neal. It involves a sailor who regularly sails between ports. On one port there is a woman who wants to have a child with him, across the sea there is another woman who also wants to have a child with him. The sailor cannot decide if he will have one or two children so he will leave it up to coin toss. If Heads he will have one child and if Tails two children. But if the coin lands on Head which woman would have his child? He would decide this by looking at The Sailors Guide to Ports and the woman in the port that appears first would be the woman that he has a child with. You are his child. You do not have a copy of The Sailors Guide to Ports. What is the probability that you are his only child, thus the coin landed on Heads (assume a fair coin). \n\nThe problem does not necessarily need to involve a fictional situation. For example, computers can be programmed to act as Sleeping Beauty and not know when they are being run; consider a program that is run twice after tails is flipped and once after heads is flipped.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "320393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320393", "title": "Sound symbolism", "text": "Sound symbolism\n\nIn linguistics, sound symbolism, phonesthesia or phonosemantics is the idea that vocal sounds or phonemes carry meaning in and of themselves.\n\nIn the 18th century, Mikhail Lomonosov propagated a theory that words containing certain sounds should bear certain meanings; for instance, the front vowel sounds E, I, YU should be used when depicting tender subjects and those with back vowel sounds O, U, Y when describing things that may cause fear (\"like anger, envy, pain, and sorrow\").\n\nHowever, it is Ferdinand de Saussure (1857–1913) who is considered to be the founder of modern 'scientific' linguistics. Central to what de Saussure says about words are two related statements: First, he says that \"the sign is arbitrary\". He considers the words that we use to indicate things and concepts could be any words — they are essentially just a consensus agreed upon by the speakers of a language and have no discernible pattern or relationship to the thing. Second, he says that, because words are arbitrary, they have meaning only in relation to other words. A dog is a dog because it is not a cat or a mouse or a horse, etc. These ideas have permeated the study of words since the 19th century.\n\nMargaret Magnus is the author of a comprehensive book designed to explain phonosemantics to the lay reader: \"Gods in the Word\". This work describes three types of sound symbolism using a model first proposed by Wilhelm von Humboldt (see below):\n\nThis is the least significant type of symbolism. It is simply imitative of sounds or suggests something that makes a sound. Some examples are \"crash\", \"bang\", and \"whoosh\".\n\nWords that share a sound sometimes have something in common. If we take, for example, words that have no prefix or suffix and group them according to meaning, some of them will fall into a number of categories. So we find that there is a group of words beginning with /b/ that are about barriers, bulges and bursting, and some other group of /b/ words that are about being banged, beaten, battered, bruised, blistered and bashed. This proportion is, according to Magnus, above the average for other letters.\n\nAnother hypothesis states that if a word begins with a particular phoneme, then there is likely to be a number of other words starting with that phoneme that refer to the same thing. An example given by Magnus is if the basic word for 'house' in a given language starts with a /h/, then by clustering, disproportionately many words containing /h/ can be expected to concern housing: hut, home, hovel, habitat...\n\nSound symbolic words cannot be broken down into smaller units of meaning. Sound clusters are not treated as morphemes. Words beginning with /gl/ (glitter, gleam, glow, glisten, etc.) pertain to light reflection but [gl] on its own has no meaning nor does every other word with /gl/ refer to light.\n\nClustering is language dependent, although closely related languages will have similar clustering relationships.\n\nIconism, according to Magnus, becomes apparent when comparing words which have the same sort of referent. One way is to look at a group of words that all refer to the same thing and that differ only in their sound, such as 'stamp', 'stomp', 'tamp', 'tromp', 'tramp', and 'step'. An /m/ before the /p/ in some words makes the action more forceful; compare 'stamp' with 'step' or 'tamp' with 'tap'. According to Magnus, the /r/ sets the word in motion, especially after a /t/ so a 'tamp' is in one place, but a 'tramp' goes for a walk. The /p/ in all those words would be what emphasizes the individual steps.\n\nMagnus suggests that this kind of iconism is universal across languages.\n\nSome languages possess a category of words midway between onomatopoeia and usual words. Whereas onomatopoeia refers to the use of words to imitate actual sounds, there are languages known for having a special class of words that \"imitate\" soundless states or events, called \"phenomimes\" (when they describe external phenomena) and \"psychomimes\" (when they describe psychological states). On a scale that orders all words according to the correlation between their meaning and their sound, with the sound-imitating words like \"meow\" and \"whack\" at one end, and with the conventional words like \"water\" and \"blue\" at the other end, the phenomimes and the psychomimes would be somewhere in the middle. In the case of the Japanese language, for example, such words are learned in early childhood and are considerably more effective than usual words in conveying feelings and states of mind or in describing states, motions, and transformations. They are not found, however, only in children's vocabulary, but widely used in daily conversation among adults and even in more formal writing. Like Japanese, the Korean language also has a relatively high proportion of phenomimes and psychomimes.\n\nSeveral ancient traditions exist which talk about an archetypal relationship between sounds and ideas. Some of these are discussed below, but there are others as well. If we include a link between \"letters\" and ideas then the list includes the Viking \"Runes\", the Hebrew \"Kabbalah\", the Arab \"Abjad\", etc.. References of this kind are very common in The Upanishads, The Nag Hammadi Library, the Celtic \"Book of Taliesin\", as well as early Christian works, the Shinto Kototama, and Shingon Buddhism.\n\nSinologist Axel Schuessler asserts that in Old Chinese, \"Occasionally, certain meanings are associated with certain sounds.\" Concerning initials, he suggests that words with meanings such as \"dark, black, covered\" etc. tend begin with *m-, while those indicating \"soft, subtle, flexible\" begin with *n-. Taking a broader perspective, he also notes that \"Roots and stems meaning 'round, turn, return' have an initial *w- not only in Chinese, but generally in the languages of the area.\"\n\nAs for finals in Old Chinese, Schuessler points out, \"Words that signify movement with an abrupt endpoint often end in *-k,\" and \"Words with the meaning 'shutting, closing' [...] tend to end in final *-p.\" He also notes an overlap between the significations of initial *m- and final *-m: \"Words that imply 'keeping in a closed mouth' tend to end in a final *-m\".\n\nIn \"Cratylus\", Plato has Socrates commenting on the origins and correctness of various names and words. When Hermogenes asks if he can provide another hypothesis on how signs come into being (his own is simply 'convention'), Socrates initially suggests that they fit their referents in virtue of the sounds they are made of:\n\nHowever, faced by an overwhelming number of counterexamples given by Hermogenes, Socrates has to admit that \"my first notions of original names are truly wild and ridiculous\".\n\nThe Upanishads contain a lot of material about sound symbolism, for instance:\n\nKūkai, the founder of Shingon, wrote his \"Sound, word, reality\" in the 9th century which relates all sounds to the voice of the Dharmakaya Buddha.\n\nThe idea of phonosemantics was sporadically discussed during the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. In 1690, Locke wrote against the idea in an essay called \"An Essay on Human Understanding\". His argument was that if there were any connection between sounds and ideas, then we would all be speaking the same language, but this is an over-generalisation. Leibniz's book \"New Essays on Human Understanding\" published in 1765 contains a point by point critique of Locke's essay. Leibniz picks up on the generalization used by Locke and adopts a less rigid approach: clearly there is no perfect correspondence between words and things, but neither is the relationship completely arbitrary, although he seems vague about what that relationship might be.\n\nIn 1836 Wilhelm von Humboldt published \"Über die Verschiedenheit des menschlichen Sprachbaues und ihren Einfluß auf die geistige Entwicklung des Menschengeschlechts.\" It is here that he establishes the three kinds of relationship between sounds and ideas as discussed above under Types of Sound Symbolism. Below is a sample of researchers in the field of phonosemantics.\n\nOtto Jespersen suggests that: \"Sound symbolism, we may say, makes some words more fit to survive.\" Dwight Bolinger of Harvard University was the primary proponent of phonosemantics through the late 1940s and the 1950s. In 1949, he published \"The Sign is Not Arbitrary\". He concluded that morphemes cannot be defined as the minimal meaning-bearing units, in part because linguistic meaning is so ill-defined, and in part because there are obvious situations in which smaller units are meaning-bearing.\n\nIvan Fónagy (1963) correlates phonemes with metaphors. For example, nasal and velarized vowels are quite generally considered ‘dark’, front vowels as ‘fine’ and ‘high’. Unvoiced stops have been considered ‘thin’ by European linguists, whereas the fricatives were labelled ‘raw’ and ‘hairy’ by the Greeks.\n\nHans Marchand provided the first extensive list of English phonesthemes. He wrote, for example, that \"/l/ at the end of a word symbolizes prolongation, continuation\" or \"nasals at the end of a word express continuous vibrating sounds.\"\n\nGérard Genette published the only full length history of phonosemantics, \"Mimologics\" (1976). In 450 pages, Genette details the evolution of the linguistic iconism among linguists and poets, in syntax, morphology and phonology.\n\nLinguist Keith McCune demonstrated in his doctoral thesis that virtually every word in the Indonesian language has an iconic (phonosemantic) component. His two-volume doctoral thesis \"The Internal Structure of Indonesian Roots\" was completed at the University of Michigan in 1983 and published in Jakarta in 1985.\n\nIn the 2003 BBC Reith Lectures, Vilayanur S. Ramachandran outlined his research into the links between brain structure and function. In the fourth lecture of the series he describes the phenomena of synesthesia in which people experience, for example, sounds in terms of colors, or sounds in terms of tastes. In one type of synesthesia, people see numbers, letters of the alphabet, or even musical notes as having a distinct color. Ramachandran proposes a model for how language might have evolved. The theory may explain how humans create metaphors and how sounds can be metaphors for images – why for example sounds can be described as \"bright\" or \"dull\". In explaining how language might have evolved from cross activation of adjacent areas in the brain, Ramachandran notes four crucial factors, not all related to language, but which combined might have resulted in the emergence of language. Two of these four processes are of particular interest here.\n\n\"Synesthetic cross modal abstraction\": i.e. we recognize properties that sounds and images have in common and abstract them to store them independently. The sounds and shapes of the objects have characteristics in common that can be abstracted; for example, a \"sharp\", \"cutting\" quality of a word, and the shape it describes. Ramachandran calls this the 'Bouba/kiki effect', based on the results of an experiment with two abstract shapes, one blob-like and the other spiky, that asked people to relate the nonsense words \"bouba\" and \"kiki\" to them. The effect is real and observable, repeatable across linguistic groups, and evident even in the description of the experiment (with the \"bouba\" shape usually described using similar-sounding words like \"bulbous\" or \"blobby\" while the \"kiki\" shape is \"prickly\" or \"spiky\").\n\n\"Built in preexisting cross activation\". Ramachandran points out that areas of the brain which appear to be involved in the mix-ups in synesthesia are adjacent to each other physically, and that cross-wiring, or cross activation, could explain synesthesia and our ability to make metaphors. He notes that the areas that control the muscles around the mouth are also adjacent to the visual centers, and suggests that certain words appear to make our mouth imitate the thing we are describing. Examples of this might be words like \"teeny weeny\", \"diminutive\" to describe small things; \"large\" or \"enormous\" to describe big things.\n\nMore recently, research on ideasthesia indicated that Kiki and Bouba have an entire semantic-like network of associated cross-modal experiences.\n\nThe sound of words is important in the field of poetry, and rhetoric more generally. Tools such as euphony, alliteration, and rhyme all depend on the speaker or writer confidently choosing the best-sounding word.\n\nJohn Michell's book \"Euphonics: A Poet's Dictionary of Enchantments\" collects lists of words of similar meaning and similar sounds. For example, the entry for \"gl-\" contains words for shiny things: glisten, gleam, glint, glare, glam, glimmer, glaze, glass, glitz, gloss, glory, glow, and glitter. Likewise, in German, nouns starting with \"kno-\" and \"knö-\" are mostly small and round: \"Knoblauch\" \"garlic\", \"Knöchel\" \"ankle\", \"Knödel\" \"dumpling\", \"Knolle\" \"tuber\", \"Knopf\" \"button\", \"Knorren\" \"knot (in a tree)\", \"Knospe\" \"bud (of a plant)\", \"Knoten\" \"knot (in string or rope)\".\n\nPhonesthesia is used in commerce for the names of products and even companies themselves. According to linguist Steven Pinker, one particularly \"egregious example\" was when cigarette maker Philip Morris rebranded to Altria. The name \"Altria\" is claimed to come from the Latin word for \"high\" but Pinker sees the change as an attempt to \"switch its image from bad people who sell addictive carcinogens to a place or state marked by altruism and other lofty values\". The brand names of many pharmaceuticals are common examples.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7610000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7610000", "title": "Ugo Mattei", "text": "Ugo Mattei\n\nUgo Mattei (born 1961 in Turin, Piedmont) is the Alfred and Hanna Fromm Professor of International and Comparative Law at the University of California, Hastings College of the Law, in San Francisco, California and a full Professor of Civil Law in the University of Turin, Italy. He is the Academic Coordinator of the International University College of Turin, Italy, a radically new school where issues of law and finance in global capitalism are critically approached. He is also a columnist for the Italian newspapers \"Il Manifesto\" and Il Fatto Quotidiano. For his ground-breaking studies on the commons, in 2017 Mattei won the Elinor Ostrom Award for the Collective Governance of the Commons.\n\nMattei graduated first in his class in 1983 from the Law School of the University of Turin and he received his LL.M. from Boalt Hall (University of California, Berkeley School of Law) in 1989 where he was a Fulbright Fellow. He also attended the London School of Economics and the Faculté Internationale de Droit Comparé in Strasbourg.\n\nMattei has been a visiting scholar at Yale Law School and the Trinity College and Wolfson College, University of Cambridge, and a visiting professor at Oslo, Berkeley, Montpellier, Macau. In 1985 he joined the law school of the University of Trento, where he received tenure as a full professor in 1990. In 1992 he was appointed as a professor in the Faculté Internationale de Droit Comparé (Strasbourg), where he served for four years.\n\nIn 1993, Mattei taught as a visiting professor on the U.C. Hastings faculty, where in 1994 he was appointed as the first holder of the Fromm Chair in International and Comparative Law, succeeding Rudolf Schlesinger in teaching comparative law. In 1997, he accepted a call from the University of Turin, Faculty of Law to succeed the famous Italian scholar Rodolfo Sacco in the Chair of Civil Law. He is a Full Member of the International Academy of Comparative Law, a member of the Executive Committee of the American Society of Comparative Law, a member of the Advisory Board of the Friburg Institute of Comparative Law, an advisor to the Institute of Law, Economics and Finances at Copenhagen Business School, a General Editor of the Series Common Core of European Private Law (Trento Project) at Cambridge University Press, a series editor of European Private Law in Context at Kluwer International and an editor in chief of \"Global Jurist\". He is a member of the Editorial Board of the \"International Review of Law and Economics\" and of \"New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics and Law\".\n\nMattei’s scholarship is broadly multi-disciplinary. Mattei has published many books and more than one hundred other publications in English, Italian, French, Portuguese, Russian, and Chinese. His book in English, written with anthropologist Laura Nader, \"Plunder: When the Rule of Law is Illegal\". has been translated in five languages.\n\nUgo Mattei has recently oriented the focus of his research on the study and practice of the commons after successfully masterminding a nationwide referendum against privatization of water in 2011. His Italian bestseller \"Beni Comuni.Un Manifesto\" has generated much attention throughout European social movements. Mattei experimented some of the ideas developed in that book in Naples as the President of the local water company from 2012 to 2014 and in Chieri (Turin) as a Deputy Major in 2014 and 2015. He is currently leading a project on commons with Saki Bailey (International University College of Turin) and Filippo Valguarnera (Örebro University) in the context of the Common Core of European Private Law. In 2015 together with ecologist and scientist Fritjof Capra he has published \"The Ecology of Law. Toward a Legal System in Tune with Nature and Community\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4085603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4085603", "title": "Ulysses pact", "text": "Ulysses pact\n\nA Ulysses pact or Ulysses contract is a freely made decision that is designed and intended to bind oneself in the future. The term is used in medicine, especially in reference to advance directives (also known as living wills), where there is some controversy over whether a decision made by a person in one state of health should be considered binding upon that person when he or she is in a markedly different, usually worse, state of health.\n\nThe term refers to the pact that Ulysses (Greek name Ὀδυσσεύς, \"Odysseus\") made with his men as they approached the Sirens. Ulysses wanted to hear the Sirens' song although he knew that doing so would render him incapable of rational thought. He put wax in his men's ears so that they could not hear, and had them tie him to the mast so that he could not jump into the sea. He ordered them not to change course under any circumstances, and to keep their swords upon him and to attack him if he should break free of his bonds.\n\nUpon hearing the Sirens' song, Ulysses was driven temporarily insane and struggled with all of his might to break free so that he might join the Sirens, which would have meant his death.\n\nPsychiatric advance directives are sometimes referred to as \"Ulysses pacts\" or \"Ulysses contracts\", where there is a legal agreement designed to override a present request from a legally competent patient in favor of a past request made by that patient. An example of when Ulysses contracts are invoked is when people with schizophrenia stop taking their medication at perceived remission times.\n\nIn the wake of the Snowden revelations, digital technology companies and commentators have had to consider the situation of a technology provider being ordered by a government to act in a way that they feel morally opposed to. One example is that Apple, as part of the FBI–Apple encryption dispute, decided to engineer the iPhone in a way that made it impossible for them to read the data on it, which has been described as \"a digital Ulysses pact\". A related example is that of a warrant canary, which Cory Doctorow describes as being a Ulysses pact (albeit a \"weak\" one, since the issuer of the canary can fail or be forced not to kill the canary), as is binary transparency (applying the idea of certificate transparency to binary executable files), which he describes as a \"much stronger, more effective Ulysses pact\", since a public append-only log is harder to censor.\n\nUlysses clauses in public policy are provisions that discourage or prevent future changes. For example, in the state of California initiatives generally include a Ulysses clause to prevent amendments. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10102133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10102133", "title": "William F. Vallicella", "text": "William F. Vallicella\n\nWilliam F. Vallicella is an American philosopher.\n\nVallicella has a Ph.D. (Boston College; 1978), taught for a number of years at University of Dayton (where he was a tenured Associate Professor of Philosophy; 1978–91) and Case Western Reserve University (Visiting Associate Professor of Philosophy; 1989–91), and retired to Gold Canyon, Arizona from where he now contributes to philosophy mainly online. He is the author of many published articles, primarily on the subjects of metaphysics and philosophy of religion.\n\nIn the short chapter on him in the book \"Falling in love with wisdom: American philosophers talk about their calling\", Vallicella discusses the philosophical questions which he happened to think about in his youth, such as \"What if God hadn't created anything?\", \"What if even God didn't exist\", and \"Why is good, good, and evil, evil?\", and his thoughts on the inquiry of philosophy.\n\n\n\"What is it for any contingent thing to exist? Why does any contingent thing exist? For some time now, the preferred style in addressing such questions has been deflationary when it has not been eliminativist. In its critical half, this book thoroughly analyzes and demolishes the main deflationary and eliminativist accounts of existence, including those of Brentano, Frege, Russell, and Quine, thereby restoring existence to its rightful place as one of the deep topics in philosophy, if not the deepest. In its constructive half, the book defends the thesis that the two questions admit of a unified answer, and that this answer takes the form of what the author calls a paradigm theory of existence. The central idea of the paradigm theory is that existence itself is a paradigmatically existent concrete individual. In this way the author vindicates onto-theology and puts paid to the Heideggerian conceit that Being cannot itself be a being. This work will be of interest to all serious students and teachers of philosophy, especially those interested in metaphysics and the philosophy of religion.\"\n\n\nHe has published over 40 scholarly articles, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43387139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43387139", "title": "William Henry Chamberlin (philosopher)", "text": "William Henry Chamberlin (philosopher)\n\nWilliam Henry Chamberlin Jr. (February 12, 1870 – May 9, 1921) was an American Mormon philosopher, theologian, and educator. His teachings and writings worked to reconcile Mormonism with the theory of evolution. He taught philosophy and ancient languages as well as science and math at several Latter-day Saints (LDS) institutions including Brigham Young University in the early 20th century. He was one of four educators at Brigham Young University whose teaching of evolution and attempts to reconcile it with Mormon thought, although strongly popular with students, generated controversy among university officials and the LDS community. Chamberlin has been called \"Mormonism's first professionally trained philosopher and theologian.\"\n\nWilliam Chamberlin was born in Salt Lake City, Utah on February 12, 1870 to parents William Henry Chamberlin and Eliza Frances Brown Chamberlin. William Jr. was the oldest of 12 children. He showed early interest in botany, geology, and mathematics. His brother Ralph Vary Chamberlin would go on to become a noted biologist and would later become embroiled with William in controversy regarding the teaching of evolution. On September 28, 1892, Chamberlin married Amelia Telle Cannon, a daughter of President George Q. Cannon, First Counselor in the First Presidency (LDS Church). William and Amelia had six children: Max Cannon, Hester, Martha, Paul, Frances, and Luke.\n\nChamberlin's early career was divided between teaching, studying, and working to support his family. He taught in public schools from 1889-1891, and from 1891 to 1897 he taught math, geology, and astronomy at Latter-day Saint College. He finally completed a Bachelor of Arts in science with the University of Utah in 1896. From 1897 to 1900 he served a mission in the South Pacific Society Islands where as part of his proselytizing he translated the Book of Mormon into Tahitian, and became mission president, an ordained high priest of the Church. Around the turn of the century he donated a large collection of ferns from Utah and the South Pacific to the University of Utah's natural history museum.\nFrom 1900 to 1904 he taught science and theology at Brigham Young College, where he was Chair of Geology and Mineralogy.\n\nIn 1901, Chamberlin began studying philosophy at the University of Chicago. Over several years he studied philosophy with several prominent thinkers, including George Howison at U.C. Berkeley and Josiah Royce at Harvard. He earned an M.A. from the University of Chicago in 1906.\n\nIn 1909, William Chamberlin was recruited to Brigham Young University (BYU) by president George H. Brimhall, as part of an effort to increase the academic quality of his university. Two years earlier, Brimhall had recruited brothers Joseph and Henry Peterson, professors of psychology and education, as well as Chamberlin's own brother Ralph, a biologist. William Chamberlin taught philosophy and ancient languages. The Chamberlin and Peterson brothers, while devout Mormons, actively sought to increase the intellectual atmosphere of the university and community, facilitating discussion and debates on evolution and the Bible, and sought to convey that evolutionary ideas and Mormon theology were not mutually exclusive, but rather complementary. The four instructors' courses were popular among students and other faculty, but university and church officials accused the professors of promoting heretical views, and in 1911 offered the Petersons and Ralph Chamberlin a choice: alter their teachings or lose their jobs. This ignited a great deal of controversy in the school and surrounding community. The students of BYU overwhelmingly supported the professors, and a petition of support signed by at least 80% of the student body was submitted to BYU officials and reprinted in the \"Salt Lake Tribune\", Salt Lake City's largest secular newspaper. William Chamberlin was not given the same ultimatum, but soon after the accusations he published an essay entitled \"The Theory of Evolution as an Aid to Faith in God and Belief in the Resurrection\" in the BYU student newspaper, whose student editors wrote \"the thoughtful reading of it will well repay any student\". The Petersons and Ralph Chamberlin left the university in 1911, while William remained for another 5 years, resigning in 1916.\n\nIn 1917 Chamberlin began a PhD with Harvard philosopher Ralph Barton Perry, but left after one year due to poor health and financial troubles. He taught philosophy at the University of Utah from 1917 to 1920, and later at Utah State Agricultural College until his death.\n\nChamberlin died in Logan, Utah following a flu infection on May 9, 1921. He was fifty-one years old.\n\nChamberlin's philosophical views have been termed \"spiritual realism\", and are rooted in the philosophical tradition of personalism. Mormon scholar James M. McLaughlin consolidated Chamberlin's philosophical views into five major statements:\n\nChamberlin was the first LDS scholar to extensively apply higher criticism to the Bible. Religious scholar Anthony Hutchinson labeled Chamberlin's style of biblical criticism (the academic study of the Bible) as a \"critical historical and philological hermeneutic\" approach, broadly characterized by acceptance of mainstream (non-LDS) biblical criticism and fluency in ancient biblical languages. According to Hutchinson, relative strengths of this approach, as compared to other LDS approaches to biblical studies, include ease of communicating with scholars of Christianity and Judaism, while relative weaknesses include a highly intellectual approach which may preclude its application to popular religious practice, and promotion of views that may be interpreted as heretical. Other LDS scholars Hutchinson grouped into this approach include Lowell L. Bennion, Sterling McMurrin, and John L. Sorenson.\n\nIn a survey of thirty-eight prominent LDS intellectuals conducted by Leonard J. Arrington in the late 1960s, Chamberlin was recognized as one of the top twelve figures in LDS intellectual history. However, Philip L. Barlow notes that Chamberlin is less well-known than other prominent LDS figures.\n\nStudents of Chamberlin's included E. E. Ericksen, who later become chairman of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Utah and who is known as a leading figure in LDS intellectual history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54093044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54093044", "title": "Yogi Naraharinath", "text": "Yogi Naraharinath\n\nYogi Naraharinath (born: Balbir Singh Hriksen Thapa, 1915–2003 CE) was a Nepalese historian, writer and saint of Nath tradition of Gorakhnath. He has written over 600 books in 28 different languages and has performed 129 Koti Homs throughout Nepal.\n\nHe was born at Lalu village, Kalikot district on 17th Falgun 1971 of Bikram Samvat as Balbir Singh Hriksen Thapa (बलवीरसिंह ऋक्सेन थापा) to father Lalit Singh Hriksen Thapa and mother Gauri Devi. He belonged to Khas clan of Hriksen Thapa Chhetri who falls in Bhardwaj Gotra of Hinduism. He migrated to India aged eight and learned Sanskrit language. He later became noted historian and saint of Gorakhnath tradition and resided at Mrigasthali, Kathmandu near the holy temple of Pashupatinath.\n\nHe has written over 570 books of which 114 were published. His works includes collection and decryption of documents Khas language (ancient Nepali language) to readable Nepali which mostly included genealogies. He has worked on many genealogies like Gorkha Bansawali, Yogi Bansawali, Devmala Banshawali which were found in Dang district. According to Devmala Bansawali, he produced some claims regarding Victorian King Vikramaditya. He has also provided contributions to Nepal Sanskrit University at Dang. He was jailed for his political views on strong Hinduistic country and calling then ruling monarchy as weak. He also sent letter in Sanskrit language to Indian Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee requesting India to be declared a Hindu nation. He also believed liberty of religion and opposed non-allowance of non-Hindus at Pashupatinath Temple. He called the lord of the temple being common to all religions. He was also nicknamed \"Walking Pashupatinath\" by Swami Karpatri.\n\nSome of his online books are:\n\nHe died aged 88 on 13th Falgun, 2059 B.S. at Gorakhnath premise of Mrigasthali, Kathmandu.\n\n"}
{"id": "29672563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29672563", "title": "Yves Michaud (philosopher)", "text": "Yves Michaud (philosopher)\n\nYves Michaud (born July 11, 1944) is a French philosopher.As a student, he studied philosophy and science at École Normale Supérieure and the Sorbonne in Paris. His early research involved the study of political violence and empiricism, especially the works of John Locke and David Hume. He was Director of the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts from 1989 to 1997. In 2000, Michaud partnered with Jean-Jacques Aillagon to establish the \"Université de tous les savoirs (University of all knowledge)\", a French government initiative to disseminate information on new scientific advances.\n\nMichaud has published widely on the relationships of the arts and culture in a globalized, technological world. In 2007 \"Le Figaro\" published his article entitled \"Ce nouveau fondamentalisme moral qui menace la société française\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2187840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2187840", "title": "Zygmunt Łempicki", "text": "Zygmunt Łempicki\n\nZygmunt Łempicki (born May 11, 1886 in Sanok - June 21, 1943 in Auschwitz) was a Polish literature theoretician, Germanist, philosopher, and culture historian.\n\nŁempicki was professor at the Warsaw University from 1919 until 1939, member of the Polish Academy of Skills and editor-in-chief of the \"Świat i Życie\" encyclopedia.\n\nHe was arrested and killed in the Nazi concentration camp Auschwitz.\n\n"}
