{"id": "53069887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53069887", "title": "2017 AG13", "text": "2017 AG13\n\nThe asteroid frequently makes close approaches to Earth, possibly passing as close as to Earth on January 9, 2069, however it will most likely pass much further away.\n\n"}
{"id": "2773462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773462", "title": "A Velorum", "text": "A Velorum\n\nThe Bayer designations a Velorum and A Velorum are distinct. Due to , both designations link here. For the star\n"}
{"id": "346451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346451", "title": "Abrasive", "text": "Abrasive\n\nAn abrasive is a material, often a mineral, that is used to shape or finish a workpiece through rubbing which leads to part of the workpiece being worn away by friction. While finishing a material often means polishing it to gain a smooth, reflective surface, the process can also involve roughening as in satin, matte or beaded finishes. In short, the ceramics which are used to cut, grind and polish other softer materials are known as abrasives.\n\nAbrasives are extremely commonplace and are used very extensively in a wide variety of industrial, domestic, and technological applications. This gives rise to a large variation in the physical and chemical composition of abrasives as well as the shape of the abrasive. Some common uses for abrasives include grinding, polishing, buffing, honing, cutting, drilling, sharpening, lapping, and sanding (see abrasive machining). (For simplicity, \"mineral\" in this article will be used loosely to refer to both minerals and mineral-like substances whether man-made or not.)\n\nFiles are not abrasives; they remove material not by scratching or rubbing, but by the cutting action of sharp teeth which have been cut into the surface of the file, very much like those of a saw. However, diamond files are a form of coated abrasive (as they are metal rods coated with diamond powder).\n\nAbrasives generally rely upon a difference in hardness between the abrasive and the material being worked upon, the abrasive being the harder of the two substances. However, is not necessary as any two solid materials that repeatedly rub against each other will tend to wear each other away; examples include, softer shoe soles wearing away wooden or stone steps over decades or centuries or glaciers abrading stone valleys.\n\nTypically, materials used as abrasives are either hard minerals (rated at 7 or above on Mohs scale of mineral hardness) or are synthetic stones, some of which may be chemically and physically identical to naturally occurring minerals but which cannot be called minerals as they did not arise naturally. (While useful for comparative purposes, the Mohs scale is of limited value to materials engineers as it is an arbitrary, ordinal, irregular scale.) Diamond, a common abrasive, for instance occurs both naturally and is industrially produced, as is corundum which occurs naturally but which is nowadays more commonly manufactured from bauxite. However, even softer minerals like calcium carbonate are used as abrasives, such as \"polishing agents\" in toothpaste.\n\nThese minerals are either crushed or are already of a sufficiently small size (anywhere from macroscopic grains as large as about 2 mm to microscopic grains about 0.001 mm in diameter) to permit their use as an abrasive. These grains, commonly called grit, have rough edges, often terminating in points which will decrease the surface area in contact and increase the localised contact pressure. The abrasive and the material to be worked are brought into contact while in relative motion to each other. Force applied through the grains causes fragments of the worked material to break away, while simultaneously smoothing the abrasive grain and/or causing the grain to work loose from the rest of the abrasive.\n\nSome factors which will affect how quickly a substance is abraded include:\n\nAbrasives may be classified as either natural or synthetic. When discussing sharpening stones, natural stones have long been considered superior but advances in material technology are seeing this distinction become less distinct. Many synthetic abrasives are effectively identical to a natural mineral, differing only in that the synthetic mineral has been manufactured rather than mined. Impurities in the natural mineral may make it less effective.\n\nSome naturally occurring abrasives are:\n\nSome abrasive minerals (such as zirconia alumina) occur naturally but are sufficiently rare or sufficiently more difficult or costly to obtain such that a synthetic stone is used industrially. These and other artificial abrasives include:\n\nAbrasives are shaped for various purposes. Natural abrasives are often sold as dressed stones, usually in the form of a rectangular block. Both natural and synthetic abrasives are commonly available in a wide variety of shapes, often coming as bonded or coated abrasives, including blocks, belts, discs, wheels, sheets, rods and loose grains.\n\nA bonded abrasive is composed of an abrasive material contained within a matrix, although very fine aluminium oxide abrasive may comprise sintered material. This matrix is called a binder and is often a clay, a resin, a glass or a rubber. This mixture of binder and abrasive is typically shaped into blocks, sticks, or wheels. The most common abrasive used is aluminium oxide. Also common are silicon carbide, tungsten carbide and garnet. Artificial sharpening stones are often a bonded abrasive and are readily available as a two sided block, each side being a different grade of grit.\n\nGrinding wheels are cylinders that are rotated at high speed. While once worked with a foot pedal or hand crank, the introduction of electric motors has made it necessary to construct the wheel to withstand greater radial stress to prevent the wheel flying apart as it spins. Similar issues arise with cutting wheels, which are often structurally reinforced with impregnated fibres. High relative speed between abrasive and workpiece often makes necessary the use of a lubricant of some kind. Traditionally, they were called coolants as they were used to prevent frictional heat build up which could damage the workpiece (such as ruining the temper of a blade). Some research suggests that the heat transport property of a lubricant is less important when dealing with metals as the metal will quickly conduct heat from the work surface. More important are their effects upon lessening tensile stresses while increasing some compressive stresses and reducing \"thermal and mechanical stresses during chip formation\".\n\nVarious shapes are also used as heads on rotary tools used in precision work, such as scale modelling.\n\nBonded abrasives need to be trued and dressed after they are used. Dressing is the cleaning of the waste material (swarf and loose abrasive) from the surface and exposing fresh grit. Depending upon the abrasive and how it was used, dressing may involve the abrasive being simply placed under running water and brushed with a stiff brush for a soft stone or the abrasive being ground against another abrasive, such as aluminium oxide used to dress a grinding wheel.\n\nTruing is restoring the abrasive to its original surface shape. Wheels and stones tend to wear unevenly, leaving the cutting surface no longer flat (said to be \"dished out\" if it is meant to be a flat stone) or no longer the same diameter across the cutting face. This will lead to uneven abrasion and other difficulties.\n\nA \"coated abrasive\" comprises an abrasive fixed to a backing material such as paper, cloth, rubber, resin, polyester or even metal, many of which are flexible. Sandpaper is a very common coated abrasive. Coated abrasives are most commonly the same minerals as are used for bonded abrasives. A bonding agent (often some sort of adhesive or resin) is applied to the backing to provide a flat surface to which the grit is then subsequently adhered. A woven backing may also use a filler agent (again, often a resin) to provide additional resilience.\n\nCoated abrasives may be shaped for use in rotary and orbital sanders, for wrapping around sanding blocks, as handpads, as closed loops for use on belt grinders, as striking surfaces on matchboxes, on diamond plates and diamond steels. Diamond tools, though for cutting, are often abrasive in nature.\n\nSand, glass beads, metal pellets copper slag and dry ice may all be used for a process called sandblasting (or similar, such as the use of glass beads which is \"bead blasting\"). Dry ice will sublimate leaving behind no residual abrasive.\n\nCutting compound used on automotive paint is an example of an abrasive suspended in a liquid, paste or wax, as are some polishing liquids for silverware and optical media. The liquid, paste or wax acts as a binding agent that keeps the abrasive attached to the cloth which is used as a backing to move the abrasive across the work piece. On cars in particular, wax may serve as both a protective agent by preventing exposure of the paint of metal to air and also act as an optical filler to make scratches less noticeable. Toothpaste contains calcium carbonate or silica as a \"polishing agent\" to remove plaque and other matter from teeth as the hardness of calcium carbonate is less than that of tooth enamel but more than that of the contaminating agent.\n\nVery fine rouge powder was commonly used for grinding glass, being somewhat replaced by modern ceramics, and is still used in jewellery making for a highly reflective finish.\n\nCleaning products may also contain abrasives suspended in a paste or cream. They are chosen to be reasonably safe on some linoleum, tile, metal or stone surfaces. However, many laminate surfaces and ceramic topped stoves are easily damaged by these abrasive compounds. Even ceramic/pottery tableware or cookware can damage these surfaces, particularly the bottom of the tableware, which is often unglazed in part or in whole and acts as simply another bonded abrasive.\n\nMetal pots and stoves are often scoured with abrasive cleaners, typically in the form of the aforementioned cream or paste or of steel wool and non woven scouring pads which holds fine grits abrasives.\n\nHuman skin is also subjected to abrasion in the form of exfoliation. Abrasives for this can be much softer and more exotic than for other purposes and may include things like almond and oatmeal. Dermabrasion and microdermabrasion are now rather commonplace cosmetic procedures which use mineral abrasives.\n\nScratched compact discs and DVDs may sometimes be repaired through buffing with a very fine compound, the principle being that a multitude of small scratches will be more optically transparent than a single large scratch. However, this does take some skill and will eventually cause the protective coating of the disc to be entirely eroded (especially if the original scratch is deep), at which time, the data surface will be destroyed if abrasion continues.\n\nThe shape, size and nature of the workpiece and the desired finish will influence the choice of the abrasive used. A bonded abrasive grind wheel may be used to commercially sharpen a knife (producing a hollow grind), but an individual may then sharpen the same knife with a natural sharpening stone or an even flexible coated abrasive (like a sandpaper) stuck to a soft, non-slip surface to make achieving a convex grind easier. Similarly, a brass mirror may be cut with a bonded abrasive, have its surface flattened with a coated abrasive to achieve a basic shape, and then have finer grades of abrasive successively appied culminating in a wax paste impregnated with rouge to leave a sort of \"grainless finish\" called, in this case, a \"mirror finish\".\n\nAlso, different shapes of adhesive may make it harder to abrade certain areas of the workpiece. Health hazards can arise from any dust produced (which may be ameliorated through the use of a lubricant) which could lead to silicosis (when the abrasive or workpiece is a silicate) and the choice of any lubricant. Besides water, oils are the most common lubricants. These may present inhalation hazards, contact hazards and, as friction necessarily produces heat, flammable material hazards.\n\nAn abrasive which is too hard or too coarse can remove too much material or leave undesired scratch marks. Besides being unsightly, scratching can have other, more serious effects. Excessive abrasion or the presence of scratches may:\n\nA finer or softer abrasive will tend to leave much finer scratch marks which may even be invisible to the naked eye (a \"grainless finish\"); a softer abrasive may not even significantly abrade a certain object. A softer or finer abrasive will take longer to cut, as it tends to cut less deeply than a coarser, harder material. Also, the softer abrasive may become less effective more quickly as the abrasive is itself abraded. This allows fine abrasives to be used in the polishing of metal and lenses where the series of increasingly fine scratches tends to take on a much more shiny or reflective appearance or greater transparency. Very fine abrasives may be used to coat the strop for a cut-throat razors, however, the purpose of stropping is not to abrade material but to straighten the burr on an edge. The final stage of sharpening Japanese swords is called polishing and may be a form of superfinishing.\n\nDifferent chemical or structural modifications may be made to alter the cutting properties of the abrasive.\n\nOther very important considerations are price and availability. Diamond, for a long time considered the hardest substance in existence, is actually softer than fullerite and even harder aggregated diamond nanorods, both of which have been synthesised in laboratories, but no commercial process has yet been developed. Diamond itself is expensive due to scarcity in nature and the cost of synthesising it. Bauxite is a very common ore which, along with corundum's reasonably high hardness, contributes to corundum's status as a common, inexpensive abrasive.\n\nThought must be given to the desired task about using an appropriately hard abrasive. At one end, using an excessively hard abrasive wastes money by wearing it down when a cheaper, less hard abrasive would suffice. At the other end, if the abrasive substance is too soft, abrasion does not take place in a timely fashion, effectively wasting the abrasive as well as any accruing costs associated with loss of time.\n\nAside from the aforementioned uses of shaping and finishing, abrasives may also be used to prepare surfaces for application of some sort of paint of adhesive. An excessively smooth surface may prevent paint and adhesives from adhering as strongly as an irregular surface could allow. Inflatable tyre repair kits (which, on bicycles particularly, are actually patches for the inner tube rather than the tyre) require use of an abrasive so that the self-vulcanising cement will stick strongly.\n\nInadvertently, people who use knives on glass or metal cutting boards are abrading their knife blades. The pressure at the knife edge can easily create microscopic (or even macroscopic) cuts in the board. This cut is a ready source of abrasive material as well as a channel full of this abrasive through which the edge slides. For this reason, and without regard for the health benefits, wooden boards are much more desirable. A similar occurrence arises with glass-cutters. Glass-cutters have circular blades that are designed to roll not slide. They should never retrace an already effected cut.\n\nUndesired abrasion may result from the presence of carbon in internal combustion engines. While smaller particles are readily transported by the lubrication system, larger carbon particles may abrade components with close tolerances. The carbon arises from the excessive heating of engine oil or from incomplete combustion. This soot may contain fullerenes which are noted for their extreme hardness—and small size and limited quantity which would tend to limit their effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55198395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55198395", "title": "Alec Aalto", "text": "Alec Aalto\n\nAlec Mikael Aalto (born. 24 September 1942 Helsinki) is a Finnish diplomat. In the Foreign Ministry, he started in 1979 and served as Finland's Ambassador in Austria (1991-1995), Italy (2003-2006) and Sweden in 2006-2010 until his retirement.\n\nAalto graduated as a bachelor of law in 1967 from the University of Helsinki. Between 1968 and 1970 he studied international law at Oxford University.\n\nBetween 1970 and 1972 Aalto worked as a journalist for Finnish Broadcasting Company, after which he was from 1973 to 1975 Head of Information department in the Council of State. He also served as the Head of Press Affairs in the European Security and Cooperation Conference. In Aalto was in 1975 in the Prime Minister Keijo Liinama's caretaker cabinet as Prime Minister's secretary and from 1976 to 1978, the information director of Neste Oy.\n\nAalto joined the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in 1979. Until 1984 he served as the Head of the Ministry's Press and Culture Center, in 1985 as the Negotiating Officer of the Trade Policy Department and in 1986-1991 as Deputy Director of the Department of Trade Policy.\n\nIn 1991, Aalto started as an Ambassador in Austria while acting as a Permanent Representative of Finland in the UN organizations in Vienna and was accredited also in Slovenia. Between 1995 and 1997, Aalto worked as Prime Minister's Special Assistant in the Council of the State in international affairs. In 1997-2003 he was State Secretary for European Affairs and in 2000-2003 also Head of the EU Secretariat of the Council of State.\n\nBetween 2003-2006 Aalto was Finland's Ambassador in Italy, accredited to Malta and San Marino. In June 2006, he started his last ward as Ambassador in Sweden. Aalto retired in February in 2010.\n\nAalto's parents are actress Märta Laurent and Commercial Counselor Arvo Mikael Aalto. He is bilingual. He has a wife and daughter. Aalto plays music and enjoys the countryside, in the archipelago and in Lapland.\n"}
{"id": "395452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395452", "title": "Calypso (mythology)", "text": "Calypso (mythology)\n\nCalypso (; ) was a nymph in Greek mythology, who lived on the island of Ogygia, where, according to the \"Odyssey\", she detained Odysseus for seven years.\n\nThe etymology of Calypso's name is from (), meaning \"to cover\", \"to conceal\", \"to hide\", or \"to deceive\". According to \"Etymologicum Magnum\", her name means \"concealing the knowledge\" (), which – combined with the Homeric epithet (, meaning \"subtle\" or \"wily\") – justifies the hermetic character of Calypso and her island. The word is derived from Proto-Indo-European *\"ḱel-\", making it cognate with the English word \"Hell\".\n\nCalypso is generally said to be the daughter of the Titan Atlas and Pleione.\n\nHesiod, and the Homeric Hymn to Demeter, mention either a different Calypso or possibly the same Calypso as one of the Oceanid daughters of Tethys and Oceanus. Apollodorus includes the name Calypso in his list of Nereids, the daughters of Nereus and Doris.\n\nIn Homer's \"Odyssey\", Calypso attempts to keep the fabled Greek hero Odysseus on her island to make him her immortal husband. According to Homer, Calypso kept Odysseus prisoner at Ogygia for seven years. Calypso enchants Odysseus with her singing as she moves to and fro, weaving on her loom with a golden shuttle. Odysseus soon comes to wish for circumstances to change.\n\nOdysseus can no longer bear being separated from his wife Penelope and wants to go to Calypso to tell her. His patron goddess Athena asks Zeus to order the release of Odysseus from the island, and Zeus orders the messenger Hermes to tell Calypso to set Odysseus free, for it was not his destiny to live with her forever. She angrily comments on how the gods hate goddesses having affairs with mortals, but eventually concedes, sending Odysseus on his way after providing him with wine, bread, and the materials for a raft.\n\nHomer does not mention any children by Calypso. By some accounts, which come after the \"Odyssey\", Calypso bore Odysseus a son, Latinus, though Circe is usually given as Latinus' mother. In other accounts Calypso bore Odysseus two children: Nausithous and Nausinous. The story of Odysseus and Calypso has some close resemblances to the interactions between Gilgamesh and Siduri in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" in that \"the lone female plies the inconsolable hero-wanderer with drink and sends him off to a place beyond the sea reserved for a special class of honoured people\" and \"to prepare for the voyage he has to cut down and trim timbers.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10469469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10469469", "title": "Castle Rock State Park (Illinois)", "text": "Castle Rock State Park (Illinois)\n\nCastle Rock State Park is an Illinois state park on in Ogle County, Illinois, United States. A portion of the land was acquired by the \"Friends of Our Native Landscape\" in 1921.\n\nCastle Rock is a bluff of exposed St. Peter Sandstone from the Middle Ordovician period. Newly exposed sections are white quartz, while older areas have browner tints from the formation of limonite. The bluff is along the axis of the Sandwich Fault Zone, separating Ordovician exposures from those of the Cambrian period.\n\nCastle Rock State Park was one of eleven state parks slated to close indefinitely on November 1, 2008 due to budget cuts by former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich. After delay, which restored funding for some of the parks, a proposal to close seven state parks and a dozen state historic sites, including Castle Rock, went ahead on November 30, 2008. After the impeachment of Illinois Governor Blagojevich, new governor Pat Quinn reopened the closed state parks in February. In March 2009 Quinn announced he is committed to reopening the state historic sites by June 30, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "10964778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10964778", "title": "Cinder cone", "text": "Cinder cone\n\nA cinder cone or scoria cone is a steep conical hill of loose pyroclastic fragments, such as either volcanic clinkers, cinders, volcanic ash, or scoria that has been built around a volcanic vent. They consist of loose pyroclastic debris formed by explosive eruptions or lava fountains from a single, typically cylindrical, vent. As the gas-charged lava is blown violently into the air, it breaks into small fragments that solidify and fall as either cinders, clinkers, or scoria around the vent to form a cone that often is symmetrical; with slopes between 30–40°; and a nearly circular ground plan. Most cinder cones have a bowl-shaped crater at the summit.\n\nThe rock fragments, often called cinders or scoria, are glassy and contain numerous gas bubbles \"frozen\" into place as magma exploded into the air and then cooled quickly. Cinder cones range in size from tens to hundreds of meters tall. Cinder cones are made of pyroclastic material. Many cinder cones have a bowl-shaped crater at the summit.\nDuring the waning stage of a cinder-cone eruption, the magma has lost most of its gas content. This gas-depleted magma does not fountain but oozes quietly into the crater or beneath the base of the cone as lava. Lava rarely issues from the top (except as a fountain) because the loose, uncemented cinders are too weak to support the pressure exerted by molten rock as it rises toward the surface through the central vent. Because it contains so few gas bubbles, the molten lava is denser than the bubble-rich cinders. Thus, it often burrows out along the bottom of the cinder cone, lifting the less dense cinders like a cork on water, and advances outward, creating a lava flow around the cone's base. When the eruption ends, a symmetrical cone of cinders sits at the center of a surrounding pad of lava. If the crater is fully breached, the remaining walls form an amphitheatre or horseshoe shape around the vent.\n\nCinder cones are commonly found on the flanks of shield volcanoes, stratovolcanoes, and calderas. For example, geologists have identified nearly 100 cinder cones on the flanks of Mauna Kea, a shield volcano located on the island of Hawaii. These cones are also referred to as 'scoria cones' and 'cinder and spatter cones.'\n\nThe most famous cinder cone, Paricutin, grew out of a corn field in Mexico in 1943 from a new vent. Eruptions continued for nine years, built the cone to a height of 424 meters, and produced lava flows that covered 25 km².\n\nThe Earth's most historically active cinder cone is Cerro Negro in Nicaragua. It is part of a group of four young cinder cones NW of Las Pilas volcano. Since its initial eruption in 1850, it has erupted more than 20 times, most recently in 1995 and 1999.\n\nBased on satellite images it was suggested that cinder cones might occur on other terrestrial bodies in the solar system too. They were reported on the flanks of Pavonis Mons in Tharsis, in the region of Hydraotes Chaos on the bottom of the Coprates Chasma, or in the volcanic field Ulysses Colles. It is also suggested that domical structures in Marius Hills might represent lunar cinder cones.\n\nThe size and shape of cinder cones depend on environmental properties as different gravity and/or atmospheric pressure might change the dispersion of ejected scoria particles. For example, cinder cones on Mars seem to be more than two times wider than terrestrial analogues as lower atmospheric pressure and gravity enable wider dispersion of ejected particles over a larger area. Therefore, it seems that erupted amount of material is not sufficient on Mars for the flank slopes to attain the angle of repose and Martian cinder cones seem to be ruled mainly by ballistic distribution and not by material redistribution on flanks as typical on Earth.\n\nSome cinder cones are monogenetic – the result of a single, never-to-be-repeated eruption. Parícutin in Mexico, Diamond Head, Koko Head, Punchbowl Crater and some cinder cones on Mauna Kea are monogenetic cinder cones.\n\nMonogenetic eruptions can last for more than 10 years. Parícutin erupted from 1943 to 1952.\n\n"}
{"id": "51462421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51462421", "title": "Department of the Environment and Energy", "text": "Department of the Environment and Energy\n\nThe Department of the Environment and Energy is an Australian government department. \n\nThe Department is responsible for matters including environment protection and conservation of biodiversity as well as energy policy. It was established in July 2016 by the Turnbull Government after the 2016 federal election.\nFollowing the appointment of Scott Morrison as Prime Minister, Josh Frydenberg was elevated to Treasurer of Australia, whereby Frydenberg's previous ministerial positions were separated, with Melissa Price as Minister of the Environment and Angus Taylor as Minister for Energy.\n\nThe Administrative Arrangements Orders list the department's responsibilities as follows:\n\n\nThe head of the department is its Secretary, Finn Pratt , responsible to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, the Hon. Josh Frydenberg . The department is staffed by individuals from the Australian Public Service.\n"}
{"id": "25848141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25848141", "title": "Eastern Australian temperate forests", "text": "Eastern Australian temperate forests\n\nThe Eastern Australian temperate forests, or temperate eucalypt forests, are an ecoregion of open forest on uplands starting from the east coast of New South Wales in the South Coast to southern Queensland, Australia. Four distinguishable communities are found within this ecoregion: subtropical rainforest, subtropical dry rainforest, warm temperate rainforest, and cool temperate rainforest, where they may also grade to other biomes, depending on the location. \n\nMany systematic National and State Parks are distributed throughout New South Wales and Queensland, although the representation of habitats varies throughout the ecoregion. In some areas, eucalyptus woodlands and dry forests have been cleared for urban development or to enhance grazing. Before Europeans first arrived to Australia, the Border Ranges had one of the largest rainforests in Australia.\n\nThis ecoregion covers an area between Australia's east coast and the Great Dividing Range, starting just above Eden, New South Wales in the South Coast, which includes (parts of) the Blue Mountains to the west Sydney, and ending south Queensland in Border Ranges. The Sydney metropolitan area is transitional with regions such as the greater west (or the Cumberland Plain) being virtually excluded from this biome since they predominantly contain dry sclerophyll woodlands and thus would have more in common with Mediterranean forests. Though pockets of forested areas in Sydney, such as those in The Hills Shire to the north and Sutherland Shire to the south, which are relatively wet and therefore lush, do have regions within them that are part of Eastern Australian temperate forests.\n\nEucalyptus communities meandering the coast in southern Queensland and northern New South Wales are usually wet sclerophyl wet forests, ranging from 30 percent to 70 percent closed canopy cover, with the understorey containing small broadleaved trees, vines, ferns and shrubs. Wet forests are strictly confined in southeastern Queensland. Subtropical rainforest is the most developed community in New South Wales, growing in warm, fecund sites having rainfall higher than 1,300 mm per year. Dry rainforests occur in sites with lower rainfall, ranging from 600 mm to 1,100 mm annual rainfall. Dry rainforest was distributed in southeastern Queensland where it occupied about half a million hectares, though it has now been broadly cleared for agriculture. Warm temperate rainforest is far less diverse than the dry or subtropical region, growing on low-nutrient soils. Mostly found to the southern half of the ecoregion in Sydney (parts of Hornsby Shire and Sutherland Shire), it has transitional elements of Mediterranean vegetation due to abundant of dry sclerophyll plants surrounding it, which are prevalent communities in western Sydney. \n\nThe rainforest communities of this region exhibit ecological relations to other regions: the cool temperate rainforest is similar to the biome found in Tasmania, the warm temperate rainforest has links to the North Island of New Zealand, and the subtropical and dry regions are also found up north in the Queensland Tropical Rainforest ecoregion. The Blue Mountains area has over 90 eucalypt taxa, or 13% of the global dispersion.\n\nThese are areas of eucalyptus forest on sandstone plateau, with smaller sections of cliffs, steep gorges with rainforest vegetation and sandy heath on the coasts. The climate is oceanic to the south and humid subtropical to the north. In the central areas of the Blue Mountains, rainfall averages from 1,100 to 1,400 mm annually. Climate in the coastal regions is humid, with excessive rainfall (1200 mm to 1600 mm a year). Rainfall decreases as one moves inland to the New England region with Armidale receiving around 800 mm of rain each year on average. Winters in that city are cold and wet and higher elevations receive snowfall most years. \n\nFurther north in the Border Ranges, monthly summer temperatures vary from 21.5C maximum to 19.7C minimum. Corresponding winter temperatures from Mount Tamborine in the Border Ranges vary from 17.8C maximum to 12.3C minimum. Throughout the ecoregion, rainfall is concentrated in the summer. Towards the north of the ecoregion rainfall is lower (750 mm to 1100 mm per year) and more seasonal.\n\nThe dominant forest is peppermint eucalyptus trees, indeed it was the moisture from these trees which was originally thought to cause the blue mist that gave the mountains their name. Shrublands, shrubby woodlands (heaths), and affiliated sandplain vegetation are typical of the region's coastal area. The shrub species include, Epacridaceae, Myrtaceae, Rutaceae, Fabaceae, Proteaceae, and Cyperaceae. The Border Ranges is home to more than 1,200 vascular plants.\n\nA variety of eucalyptus trees dominate areas of this large ecoregion, including: in southern Queensland and northern New South Wales (such as in around such as the Northern Tablelands) - tallowwood (\"Eucalyptus microcorys\"), blackbutt (\"Eucalyptus pilularis\"), brush box (\"Lophostemon confertus\"), flooded gum (\"Eucalyptus grandis\"), and Gympie messmate (\"Eucalyptus cloeziana\"); southern New South Wales - Sydney blue gum (\"Eucalyptus saligna\"), the grey ironbark (\"Eucalyptus paniculata\"), and blackbutt; and on the New South Wales coast a stringybark (\"Eucalyptus eugenioides\"). Trees in the warm temperate forests include coachwood (\"Ceratopetalum apetalum\"), sassafras (\"Doryphora sassafras\"), and lillypilly (\"Acmena smithii\") Typical trees in cool temperate forests include, \"Eucryphia moorei\" and \"Antarctic beech\".\n\nThere are particularly rich collections of endemic plants in a number of areas: the eucalyptus of the Blue Mountains; the rainforests of Border Ranges area in the McPherson Range including Mount Warning, Nightcap National Park, and Lamington National Park including Binna Burra; and the sand dunes of World Heritage Site Fraser Island and the Great Sandy National Park of southern Queensland. There are well-known areas of rainforest protected as the Gondwana Rainforests of Australia, containing distinct areas of subtropical rainforest in New South Wales, dry rainforest of southern Queensland (although most of this has been cleared for agriculture and pine plantations) and warm temperate rainforest south of Sydney. Finally the coasts are covered with shrubs, heath and other sand dune vegetation.\n\nLocal wildlife includes velvet worms and koalas, while the birds of the forest include kookaburra kingfishers, gang-gang cockatoos, crimson rosellas and striated thornbills and a number of threatened birds including red goshawk (\"Erythrotriorchis radiatus\"), swift parrot (\"Lathamus discolor\"), regent honeyeater (\"Xanthomyza phrygia\"), Albert's lyrebird (\"Menura alberti\"), and eastern bristlebird (\"Dasyornis brachypterus\"). Overall , upwards of 60 reptiles, 65 mammals, and 275 birds have been transcribed in the Blue Mountains. The broad-headed snake and the stuttering frog also exist in the region.\n\nThese habitats are vulnerable to ongoing clearance for agriculture and urban development and by fires, while introduced species both weeds and animals, and pollution of water supplies threaten the indigenous wildlife. However, controlled logging of tallowwood, Sydney blue gum, spotted gum, blackbutt, and flooded gum does sustain large areas of these indigenous trees as well as formally protected areas such as those mentioned above and Royal National Park near to Sydney which contains a number of the different habitats described here. Urban areas in this ecoregion include Sydney and Brisbane while resort areas like North Stradbroke Island and Ballina attract visitors to the coast.\n\nThese parks are listed in a north to south order, starting from northern NSW down to the south coast of NSW (to note, not all plant communities within these parks have temperate forests, as some would grade to Mediterranean woodlands and/or subtropical forests, depending on the vicinity):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57684936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57684936", "title": "Esmeralda Bank", "text": "Esmeralda Bank\n\nEsmeralda Bank is a submarine volcano around 37 km west of Tinian Island of the Northern Mariana Islands in the Pacific Ocean. It is located at the southern end of the Mariana Arc. It has three summit cones lying along a north-south line. The highest peak is about 43 meters below the sea surface and has a caldera about 3 kilometers wide and several parasitic cones on the edge of the caldera. Sulfur boils and water discoloration have been observed at the site of the volcano, attributed to either eruptions or fumarolic activity.\nOn May 26, 1987, a pilot observed violently bubbling and discolored water over Esmeralda Bank.\n"}
{"id": "9620974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9620974", "title": "Fatwood", "text": "Fatwood\n\nFatwood, also known as \"fat lighter\", \"lighter wood\", \"rich lighter\", \"pine knot\", \"lighter knot\", \"heart pine\" or \"lighter'd\", is derived from the heartwood of pine trees. The stump (and tap root) that is left in the ground after a tree has fallen or has been cut is the primary source of fatwood, as the resin-impregnated heartwood becomes hard and rot-resistant over time after the death of the main tree. Other locations, such as the joints where limbs intersect the trunk, can also be harvested. Although most resinous pines can produce fatwood, in the southeastern United States the wood is commonly associated with longleaf pine (\"Pinus palustris\"), which historically was highly valued for its high pitch production.\n\nThe commercial use of fatwood from stumps stemmed from its use to make pitch and pine tar. In 1648, a company was formed in Sweden called \"Norrländska Tjärkompaniet\" (The Wood Tar Company of North Sweden), and was given exclusive export rights [for pinetar - see separate topic- not fatwood] by the King of Sweden.\n\nConiferous tree sap is a viscous liquid, that contains terpene, a volatile hydrocarbon. Over time the evaporation of the terpene changes the state of the sap; it slowly gets thicker until it hardens into resin. New fatwood leaks the sticky sap, while in aged fatwood the sap has hardened and is no longer sticky. At every stage of the aging process, fatwood will burn readily, even when wet.\n\nBecause of the flammability of terpene, fatwood is prized for use as kindling in starting fires. It lights quickly even when wet, is very wind resistant, and burns hot enough to light larger pieces of wood. A small piece of fatwood can be used many times to create tinder by shaving small curls and using them to light other larger tinder. The pitch-soaked wood produces an oily, sooty smoke, and it is recommended that one should not cook on a fire until all the fatwood has completely burned out.\n\nThere are between 105 and 125 species classified as resinous pine trees around the world. Species usable for fatwood are distributed across a range including Eurasia, where they range from the Canary Islands, Iberian Peninsula and Scotland east to the Russian Far East. From the Philippines, Norway, Finland and Sweden (Scots Pine), and eastern Siberia (Siberian Dwarf Pine), and south to northernmost Africa. From the Himalaya and Southeast Asia, with one species (Sumatran Pine) just crossing the Equator in Sumatra. In North America, they range from 66°N in Canada (Jack Pine), to Central America to 12°N in Nicaragua (Caribbean Pine). The highest diversity in the genus occurs in Mexico and California. In the sub-tropics of the Southern Hemisphere, including Chile, Brazil, South Africa, Australia, Argentina and New Zealand, the trees are not indigenous but were introduced. Anywhere there is a pine tree or pine stump, there can be fatwood that can be found on top of the ground, but it is more concentrated and preserved in stumps.\n\nIn the United States the pine tree, \"Pinus palustris\", known as the Longleaf pine, once covered as much as but due to clear cutting was reduced by between 95% and 97%. The trees grow very large (up to 150 feet), taking 100 to 150 years to mature and can live up to 500 years. The wood was prized and cutting resulted in many hundreds of thousands of stumps that are very resinous, do not rot, and eventually become fatwood. This ushered in a new industry for many years. There is still a market for the wood, but supplies are less abundant. Due to the length of growing time, the \"Pinus taeda\", also called the Loblolly pine, replaced it for commercial replanting, with a maturity of only 38 to 45 years.\n\nIndustrial uses for fatwood include production of turpentine; when fatwood is cooked down in a fire kiln, the heavier resin product that results is pine tar. The steam that vaporizes from this process is turned into a liquid that becomes turpentine.\n\nTree resins or by-products are used in many different things to include;\n\nSugartown, Louisiana\nBeauregard Parish, Louisiana\n\n"}
{"id": "2947653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2947653", "title": "Figure (wood)", "text": "Figure (wood)\n\nIn wood, figure refers to the appearance of wood, as seen on a longitudinal surface (side-grain): a \"figured wood\" is not plain. \n\nThe figure of a particular piece of wood is, in part, due to its grain and, in part, due to the cut, or to innate properties of the wood. A few of the tropical hardwoods, like the rosewoods, may have a unique figure.\nTypes of figure include: angel step, \"bear scratches,\" bird's eye, blister, burl, curl, ribbon curl, dimple, fiddleback, flame, wide flame, \"ghost\", pin stripe, quilted, spalted and tiger stripe.\n"}
{"id": "43598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43598", "title": "Fjord", "text": "Fjord\n\nGeologically, a fjord or fiord (, ) is a long, narrow inlet with steep sides or cliffs, created by a glacier. There are many fjords on the coasts of Alaska, Antarctica, British Columbia, Chile, Greenland, the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Kamchatka, the Kerguelen Islands, New Zealand, Norway, Novaya Zemlya, Labrador, Nunavut, Newfoundland, Quebec, Scotland, South Georgia Island, and Washington state. Norway's coastline is estimated at with nearly 1,200 fjords, but only when fjords are excluded.\n\nA true fjord is formed when a glacier cuts a U-shaped valley by ice segregation and abrasion of the surrounding bedrock. According to the standard model, glaciers formed in pre-glacial valleys with a gently sloping valley floor. The work of the glacier then left an overdeepened U-shaped valley that ends abruptly at a valley or trough end. Such valleys are fjords when flooded by the ocean. Thresholds above sea level create freshwater lakes. Glacial melting is accompanied by the rebounding of Earth's crust as the ice load and eroded sediment is removed (also called isostasy or glacial rebound). In some cases this rebound is faster than sea level rise. Most fjords are deeper than the adjacent sea; Sognefjord, Norway, reaches as much as below sea level. Fjords generally have a sill or shoal (bedrock) at their mouth caused by the previous glacier's reduced erosion rate and terminal moraine. In many cases this sill causes extreme currents and large saltwater rapids (see skookumchuck). Saltstraumen in Norway is often described as the world's strongest tidal current. These characteristics distinguish fjords from rias (e.g. the Bay of Kotor), which are drowned valleys flooded by the rising sea. Drammensfjorden is cut almost in two by the Svelvik \"ridge\", a sandy moraine that during the ice cover was under sea level but after the post-glacial rebound reaches 60 meters above the fjord.\n\nJens Esmark in the 19th century introduced the theory that fjords are or have been created by glaciers and that large parts of Northern Europe had been covered by thick ice in prehistory. Thresholds at the mouths and overdeepening of fjords compared to the ocean are the strongest evidence of glacial origin, and these thresholds are mostly rocky. Thresholds are related to sounds and low land where the ice could spread out and therefore have less erosive force. John Walter Gregory argued that fjords are of tectonic origin and that glaciers had a negligible role in their formation. Gregory's views were rejected by subsequent research and publications. In the case of Hardangerfjord the fractures of the Caledonian fold has guided the erosion by glaciers, while there is no clear relation between the direction of Sognefjord and the fold pattern. This relationship between fractures and direction of fjords is also observed in Lyngen. Preglacial, tertiary rivers presumably eroded the surface and created valleys that later guided the glacial flow and erosion of the bedrock. This may in particular have been the case in Western Norway where the tertiary uplift of the landmass amplified eroding forces of rivers.\n\nConfluence of tributatry fjords led to excavation of the deepest fjord basins. Near the very coast the typical West Norwegian glacier spread out (presumably through sounds and low valleys) and lost their concentration and reduced the glaciers' power to erode leaving bedrock thresholds. Bolstadfjorden is 160 meters deep with a treshold of only 1.5 meters, while the 1300 meter deep Sognefjorden has a treshold around 100 to 200 meters deep. Hardangerfjord is made up of several basins separated by thresholds: The deepest basin Samlafjorden between Jonaneset (Jondal) og Ålvik with a distinct treshold at Vikingneset in Kvam.\nHanging valleys are common along glaciated fjords and U-shaped valleys. A hanging valley is a tributary valley that is higher than the main valley and were created by tributary glacier flows into a glacier of larger volume. The shallower valley appears to be 'hanging' above the main valley or a fjord. Often, waterfalls form at or near the outlet of the upper valley. Hanging valleys also occur under water in fjord systems. The branches of Sognefjord are for instance much shallower than the main fjord. The mouth of Fjærlandsfjord is about 400 meters deep while the main fjord is 1200 meters nearby. The mouth of Ikjefjord is only 50 meters deep while the main fjord is around 1300 meters at the same point.\n\nDuring the winter season there is usually little inflow of freshwater. Surface water and deeper water (down to 100 meters or more) are mixed during winter because of the steady cooling of the surface and wind. In the deep fjords there is still fresh water from the summer with less density than the saltier water along the coast. Offshore wind, common in the fjord areas during winter, sets up a current on the surface from the inner to the outer parts. This current on the surface in turn pulls dense salt water from the coast across the fjord threshold and into the deepest parts of the fjord. Bolstadfjorden has a threshold of only 1.5 meters and strong inflow of freshwater from Vosso river creates a brackish surface that blocks circulation of the deep fjord. The deeper, salt layers of Bolstadfjorden are deprived of oxygen and the seabed is covered with organic material. The shallow threshold also creates a strong tidal current.\n\nDuring the summer season there is usually a large inflow of river water in the inner areas. This freshwater gets mixed with saltwater creating a layer of brackish water with a slightly higher surface than the ocean which in turn sets up a current from the river mouths towards the ocean. This current is gradually more salty towards the coast and right under the surface current there is a reverse current of saltier water from the coast. In the deeper parts of the fjord the cold water remaining from winter is still and separated from the atmosphere by the brackish top layer. In fjords with a shallow threshold this deep water is not replaced every year and low oxygen concentration makes the deep water unsuitable for fish and animals. In the most extreme cases there is a constant barrier of freshwater on the surface and the fjord freezes over such that there is no oxygen below the surface. Drammensfjorden is one example.\n\nThe Gaupnefjorden branch of Sognefjorden is strongly affected by freshwater as a glacial river flows in. Velfjorden has little inflow of freshwater.\n\nAs late as 2000, some coral reefs were discovered along the bottoms of the Norwegian fjords. These reefs were found in fjords from the north of Norway to the south. The marine life on the reefs is believed to be one of the most important reasons why the Norwegian coastline is such a generous fishing ground. Since this discovery is fairly new, little research has been done. The reefs are host to thousands of lifeforms such as plankton, coral, anemones, fish, several species of shark, and many more. Most are specially adapted to life under the greater pressure of the water column above it, and the total darkness of the deep sea.\n\nNew Zealand's fjords are also host to deep-water corals, but a surface layer of dark fresh water allows these corals to grow in much shallower water than usual. An underwater observatory in Milford Sound allows tourists to view them without diving.\n\nIn some places near the seaward margins of areas with fjords, the ice-scoured channels are so numerous and varied in direction that the rocky coast is divided into thousands of island blocks, some large and mountainous while others are merely rocky points or rock reefs, menacing navigation. These are called skerries. The term skerry is derived from the Old Norse \", which means a rock in the sea.\n\nSkerries most commonly formed at the outlet of fjords where submerged glacially formed valleys perpendicular to the coast join with other cross valleys in a complex array. The island fringe of Norway is such a group of skerries (called a \"); many of the cross fjords are so arranged that they parallel the coast and provide a protected channel behind an almost unbroken succession of mountainous islands and skerries. By this channel one can travel through a protected passage almost the entire route from Stavanger to North Cape, Norway. The Blindleia is a skerry-protected waterway that starts near Kristiansand in southern Norway, and continues past Lillesand. The Swedish coast along Bohuslän is likewise skerry guarded. The Inside Passage provides a similar route from Seattle, Washington, and Vancouver, British Columbia, to Skagway, Alaska. Yet another such skerry protected passage extends from the Straits of Magellan north for .\n\nAn epishelf lake forms when meltwater is trapped behind a floating ice shelf and the freshwater floats on the denser saltwater below. Its surface may freeze forming an isolated ecosystem.\n\nThe word \"fjord\" comes from Norwegian (pronounced , , or in various dialects), where it can have a more general meaning: in many cases to refer to any long narrow body of water, inlet or channel (for example, see Oslofjord).\n\nThe Norse verb ' (travelling/ferrying), the Norse noun substantive ' means a \"lake-like\" waterbody used for passage and ferrying, which is of Indo-European origin (*' from *' or *\"\").\n\nThe Scandinavian \"fjord\", Proto-Scandinavian *', is the origin for similar Germanic words: Icelandic ', Swedish ' (for Baltic waterbodies), Scots '. The Norse noun ' was adopted in German as ', used for the narrow long bays of Schleswig-Holstein, and in English as \"firth\" \"fjord, river mouth\". The English word \"ford\" (compare German ', Low German ' or ', in Dutch names ' such as Vilvoorde, Ancient Greek , ', and Latin ') is assumed to originate from Germanic ' and Indo-European root *' meaning \"crossing point\". Fjord/firth/Förde as well as ford/Furt/Vörde/voorde refer to a Germanic noun for \"a travel\": North Germanic ' or ' and of the verb \"to travel\", Dutch ', German '; English \"to fare\".\n\nAs a loanword from Norwegian, it is one of the few words in the English language to start with the sequence \"fj\". The word was for a long time normally rendered \"fiord\", a spelling preserved in place names such as Grise Fiord, but now generally current only in New Zealand English.\n\nThe use of the word fjord in Norwegian, Danish and Swedish is more general than in English and in international scientific terminology. In Scandinavia, \"fjord\" is used for a narrow inlet of the sea in Norway, Denmark and western Sweden, but this is not its only application. In Norway and Iceland, the usage is closest to the Old Norse, with fjord used for both a firth and for a long, narrow inlet. In eastern Norway, the term is also applied to long narrow freshwater lakes (for instance Mjøsa [commonly referred to as '], Randsfjorden and Tyrifjorden) and sometimes even to rivers (in local usage, for instance in Flå in Hallingdal, the Hallingdal river is referred to as '). In southeast Sweden, the name fjard ' is a subdivision of the term 'fjord' used for bays, bights and narrow inlets on the Swedish Baltic Sea coast, and in most Swedish lakes. This latter term is also used for bodies of water off the coast of Finland where Finland Swedish is spoken. In Danish, the word may even apply to shallow lagoons. In modern Icelandic, ' is still used with the broader meaning of firth or inlet. In Faroese ' is used both about inlets and about broader sounds, whereas a narrower sound is called '. In the Finnish language, a word \"\" is used although there is only one fjord in Finland. Small waterfalls within these fjords are also used as freshwater resources for the people of Scandinavia and, in particular, Norway.\n\nIn old Norse genitive was \"fjarðar\" whereas dative was \"firði\". The dative form has become common place names like Førde (for instance Førde), Fyrde or Førre (for instance Førre).\n\nThe German use of the word ' for long narrow bays on their Baltic Sea coastline, indicates a common Germanic origin of the word. The landscape consists mainly of moraine heaps. The ' and some \"fjords\" on the east side of Jutland, Denmark are also of glacial origin. But while the glaciers digging \"real\" fjords moved from the mountains to the sea, in Denmark and Germany they were tongues of a huge glacier covering the basin of which is now the Baltic Sea. See Förden and East Jutland Fjorde.\n\nWhereas fjord names mostly describe bays (though not always geological fjords), straits in the same regions typically are named \"Sund\", in Scandinavian languages as well as in German. The word is related to \"to sunder\" in the meaning of \"to separate\". So the use of \"Sound\" to name fjords in North America and New Zealand differs from the European meaning of that word.\n\nThe name of Wexford in Ireland is originally derived from \"\" (\"inlet of the mud flats\") in Old Norse, as used by the Viking settlers—though the inlet at that place in modern terms is an estuary, not a fjord.\n\nBefore or in the early phase of Old Norse \"\" was another common noun for fjords and other inlets of the ocean. This word has survived only as a suffix in names of some Scandinavian fjords and has in same cases also been transferred to adjacent settlements or surrounding areas for instance Hardanger, Stavanger and Geiranger.\n\nThe differences in usage between the English and the Scandinavian languages have contributed to confusion in the use of the term fjord. Bodies of water that are clearly fjords in Scandinavian languages are not considered fjords in English; similarly bodies of water that would clearly not be fjords in the Scandinavian sense have been named or suggested to be fjords. Examples of this confused usage follow.\n\nThe Bay of Kotor in Montenegro has been suggested by some to be a fjord, but is in fact a drowned river canyon or ria. Similarly the Lim bay in Istria, Croatia, is sometimes called \"Lim fjord\" although it was not carved by glacial erosion but instead is a ria dug by the river Pazinčica. The Croats call it \"\", which does not translate precisely to the English equivalent either.\n\nIn the Danish language any inlet is called a fjord, but none of the fjords of Denmark may be considered a fjord in the geological sense. Limfjord in English terminology is a sound, since it separates the North Jutlandic Island (Vendsyssel-Thy) from the rest of Jutland. Ringkøbing Fjord on the western coast of Jutland is a lagoon. The long narrow fjords of Denmark's Baltic Sea coast like the German were dug by ice moving from the sea upon land, while fjords in the geological sense were dug by ice moving from the mountains down to the sea.\n\nThe fjords in Finnmark (Norway), which are fjords in the Scandinavian sense of the term, are not universally considered to be fjords by the scientific community. Although glacially formed, most Finnmark fjords lack the steep-sided valleys of the more southerly Norwegian fjords since the glacial pack was deep enough to cover even the high grounds when they were formed. The Oslofjord on the other hand is a rift valley, and not glacially formed.\n\nIn Acapulco, Mexico, the calanques—narrow, rocky inlets—on the western side of the city, where the famous cliff-divers perform daily, are described in the city's tourist literature as being fjords.\n\nSome Norwegian freshwater lakes that have formed in long glacially carved valleys with sill thresholds, ice front deltas or terminal moraines blocking the outlet follow the Norwegian naming convention; they are frequently named fjords. Ice front deltas developed when the ice front was relatively stable for long time during the melting of the ice shield. The resulting landform is an isthmus between the lake and the saltwater fjord, in Norwegian called \"eid\" as in placename Eidfjord or Nordfjordeid. The post-glacial rebound changed these deltas into terraces up to the level of the original sea level. In Eidfjord, Eio has dug through the original delta and left a terrace 110 meter while lake is only 19 meters above sea level. Such deposits are valuable sources of high quality building materials (sand and gravel) for houses and infrastructure. Eidfjord village sits on the \"eid\" or isthmus between Eidfjordvatnet lake and Eidfjorden branch of Hardangerfjord. Nordfjordeid is the isthmus with a village between Hornindalsvatnet lake and Nordfjord. Such lakes are also denoted \"fjord valley lakes\" by geologists.\n\nOne of Norway's largest is Tyrifjorden at 63 meters above sea level and an average depth at 97 meters most of the lake is under sea level. Norway's largest lake, Mjøsa, is also referred to as \"the fjord\" by locals. Another example is the freshwater fjord Movatnet (Mo lake) that until 1743 was separated from Romarheimsfjorden by an isthmus and connected by a short river. During a flood in November 1743 the river bed eroded and sea water could flow into the lake at high tide. Eventually Movatnet became a saltwater fjord and renamed Mofjorden (). Like fjords, freshwater lakes are often deep. For instance Hornindalsvatnet is at least 500 meters deep and water takes an average of 16 years to flow through the lake. Such lakes created by glacial action are also called fjord lakes or moraine-dammed lakes.\n\nSome of these lakes were salt after the ice age but later cut off from the ocean during the post-glacial rebound. At the end of the ice age Eastern Norway was about 200 meters lower (the marine limit). When the ice cap receded and allowed the ocean to fill valleys and lowlands, and lakes like Mjøsa and Tyrifjorden were part of the ocean while Drammen valley was a narrow fjord. At the time of the Vikings Drammensfjord was still 4 or 5 meters higher than today and reached the town of Hokksund, while parts of what is now the city of Drammen was under water. After the ice age the ocean was about 150 meter at Notodden. The ocean stretched like a fjord through Heddalsvatnet all the way to Hjartdal. Post-glacial rebound eventually separated Heddalsvatnet from the ocean and turned it into a freshwater lake. In neolithic times Heddalsvatnet was still a saltwater fjord connected to the ocean, and was cut off from the ocean around 1500 BC.\n\nSome salt water fish got trapped in lakes that originally were part of the salt fjord and gradually became freshwater fish such as the arctic char. Some freshwater fjords such as Slidrefjord are above the marine limit.\n\nLike freshwater fjords, the continuation of fjords on land are in the same way denoted as \"fjord-valleys\". For instance Flåmsdal (Flåm valley) and Måbødalen.\n\nOutside of Norway, the three western arms of New Zealand's Lake Te Anau are named North Fiord, Middle Fiord and South Fiord. Another freshwater \"fjord\" in a larger lake is Western Brook Pond, in Newfoundland's Gros Morne National Park; it is also often described as a fjord, but is actually a freshwater lake cut off from the sea, so is not a fjord in the English sense of the term. Locally they refer to it as a \"landlocked fjord\". Such lakes are sometimes called \"fjord lakes\". Okanagan Lake was the first North American lake to be so described, in 1962. The bedrock there has been eroded up to \"below\" sea level, which is below the surrounding regional topography. Fjord lakes are common on the inland lea of the Coast Mountains and Cascade Range; notable ones include Lake Chelan, Seton Lake, Chilko Lake, and Atlin Lake. Kootenay Lake, Slocan Lake and others in the basin of the Columbia River are also fjord-like in nature, and created by glaciation in the same way. Along the British Columbia Coast, a notable fjord-lake is Owikeno Lake, which is a freshwater extension of Rivers Inlet. Quesnel Lake, located in central British Columbia, is claimed to be the deepest fjord formed lake on Earth.\n\nA unique family of freshwater fjords are the embayments of the North American Great Lakes. Baie Fine is located on the northwestern coast of Georgian Bay of Lake Huron in Ontario, and Huron Bay is located on the southern shore of Lake Superior in Michigan. \n\nThe principal mountainous regions where fjords have formed are in the higher middle latitudes and the high latitudes reaching to 80°N (Svalbard, Greenland), where, during the glacial period, many valley glaciers descended to the then-lower sea level. The fjords develop best in mountain ranges against which the prevailing westerly marine winds are orographically lifted over the mountainous regions, resulting in abundant snowfall to feed the glaciers. Hence coasts having the most pronounced fjords include the west coast of Norway, the west coast of North America from Puget Sound to Alaska, the southwest coast of New Zealand, and the west and to south-western coasts of South America, for example in Chile.\n\n\nOther regions have fjords, but many of these are less pronounced due to more limited exposure to westerly winds and less pronounced relief. Areas include:\n\nThe longest fjords in the world are:\nDeep fjords include:\n\n"}
{"id": "16535054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16535054", "title": "G Aquarii", "text": "G Aquarii\n\ng Aquarii can refer to two different astronomical objects:\n\n"}
{"id": "306794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306794", "title": "Glossary of ecology", "text": "Glossary of ecology\n\nThis glossary of ecology is a list of definitions of terms and topics in ecology and related fields. For more specific definitions from other glossaries related to ecology, see Glossary of biology and Glossary of environmental science.\n\n"}
{"id": "32512257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32512257", "title": "Great Salinity Anomaly", "text": "Great Salinity Anomaly\n\nThe Great Salinity Anomaly originally referred to a significant disturbance caused by a major pulse of freshwater input to the Nordic Seas in the late 1960s and early 1970s.(Hakkinen. 1999) Since the discovery of this GSA, the term \"Great Salinity Anomaly\" has been applied to successive occurrences of the same phenomenon, including the Great Salinity Anomaly of the 1980s and the Great Salinity Anomaly of the 1990s.\n\nThe recovery time for reversion of such anomalies is typically on the order of several years. (Belkin. 2004) A Great Salinity Anomaly affects sea basins over a wide geographical distance, as seawater moved from one basin to another; this propagation affected numerous far northern sea basins, with the latest arrival being the Norwegian Sea. (Hogan. 2011)\n\nRecent studies (2017) suggest potential subpolar North Atlantic (SPG) convection collapse, resulting in rapid North Atlantic cooling, and assess AMOC slow or shutdown.\n\n"}
{"id": "36827335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36827335", "title": "Heart pine", "text": "Heart pine\n\nHeart Pine refers to the heartwood of the pine tree, which is the non-living center of the tree trunk, while the sapwood is the outer living layer which transports nutrients. \n\nThe heartwood from the pine tree, heart pine, is preferred by woodworkers and builders over the sapwood, due to its strength, hardness and golden red coloration. The longleaf pine, the favored tree for heart pine, nearly went extinct due to logging. Before the 18th century, in the United States, longleaf pine forests, covered approximately 30-60 million acres along the coastal plain from Virginia's southern tip to eastern Texas. These pine trees, 80 to 120 feet tall, require 100 to 150 years to become full size and can live up to 500 years. An inch of heart pine requires 30 years growth. Due to deforestation and over-harvesting since colonial days, only about 3% of the original Longleaf Pine forest remains.\n\nThe source of much of the available heart pine found on the market is longleaf pine from old buildings. Before 1900 it was a source for poles, pilings, posts, sawlogs, flooring, plywood, pulpwood and naval stores (tapped for turpentine).\n\nCurrently heart pine for building and woodworking is procured by reclaiming old lumber and recovering logs, felled pre-1900, from rivers.\n"}
{"id": "2036687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036687", "title": "Hydrogen-terminated silicon surface", "text": "Hydrogen-terminated silicon surface\n\nA hydrogen-terminated silicon surface is a chemically passivated silicon substrate whose silicon atoms covalently bonded to hydrogen.\n\nOne method is to remove the native oxide (SiO) thin film by etching in hydrogen fluoride aqueous solution, leaving the surface silicon atoms.\n\nAnother method uses a hydrogen-covered atomic force microscope (AFM) tip to avoid damaging the fragile silicon surface.\n\nSince all surface Si atoms are fully co-ordinated, hydrogen termination leads to enhanced stability in ambient environments, unlike a 'clean surface' having unpassivated surface atoms, or dangling bonds. It is relatively inert and can be handled in air without special care for several minutes.\n\nA hydrogen-terminated silicon surface can be flattened at the atomic level by etching. For example, to etch a hydrogen-terminated silicon(111) surface, ammonium fluoride aqueous solution or boiling water can be used.\n\nLike other silyl groups of organic compounds, the H-Si groups on the surface react with molecules that have terminal unsaturated bonds or diazo groups. The reaction is called hydrosilylation. Many kinds of organic compounds with various functions can be introduced onto the silicon surface by the hydrosilylation of a hydrogen-terminated surface.\n\nOne group proposed to use the material to create digital circuits made of quantum dots by removing hydrogen atoms from the silicon surface.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7444893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7444893", "title": "Injection molding of liquid silicone rubber", "text": "Injection molding of liquid silicone rubber\n\nInjection molding of liquid silicone rubber (LSR) is a process to produce pliable, durable parts in high volume.\n\nLiquid silicone rubber is a high purity platinum cured silicone with low compression set, great stability and ability to resist extreme temperatures of heat and cold ideally suitable for production of parts, where high quality is a must. Due to the thermosetting nature of the material, liquid silicone injection molding requires special treatment, such as intensive distributive mixing, while maintaining the material at a low temperature before it is pushed into the heated cavity and vulcanized.\n\nChemically, silicone rubber is a family of thermoset elastomers that have a backbone of alternating silicon and oxygen atoms and methyl or vinyl side groups. Silicone rubbers constitute about 30% of the silicone family, making them the largest group of that family. Silicone rubbers maintain their mechanical properties over a wide range of temperatures and the presence of methyl-groups in silicone rubbers makes these materials extremely hydrophobic, making them suitable for electrical surface insulations.\n\nTypical applications for liquid silicone rubber are products that require high precision such as seals, sealing membranes, electric connectors, multi-pin connectors, infant products where smooth surfaces are desired, such as bottle nipples, medical applications as well as kitchen goods such as baking pans, spatulas, etc. Often, silicone rubber is overmolded onto other parts made of different plastics. For example, a silicone button face might be overmolded onto an Nylon 6,6 housing.\n\nIn order for the liquid injection molding process to fully occur, several mechanical components must be in place. Typically, a molding machine requires a metered pumping device in conjunction with an injection unit—a dynamic or static mixer is attached. An integrated system can aid in precision and process efficiency. The critical components of a liquid injection molding machine include:\n\nInjectors. An injecting device is responsible for pressurizing the liquid silicone to aid in the injection of the material into the pumping section of the machine. Pressure and injection rate can be adjusted at the operator’s discretion.\n\nMetering Units. Metering units pump the two primary liquid materials, the catalyst and the base forming silicone, ensuring that the two materials maintain a constant ratio while being simultaneously released.\n\nSupply Drums. Supply drums, also called plungers, serve as the primary containers for mixing materials. Both the supply drums and a container of pigment connect to the main pumping system.\n\nMixers. A static or dynamic mixer combines materials after they exit the metering units. Once combined, pressure is used to drive the mixture into a designated mold.\n\nNozzle. To facilitate the deposition of the mixture into the mold, a nozzle is used. Often, the nozzle features an automatic shut-off valve to help prevent leaking and overfilling the mold.\n\nMold Clamp. A mold clamp secures the mold during the injection molding process, and opens the mold upon completion.\n\nBiocompatibility: Under extensive testing, liquid silicone rubber has demonstrated superior compatibility with human tissue and body fluids. In comparison to other elastomers, LSR is resistant to bacteria growth and will not stain or corrode other materials. LSR is also tasteless and odorless and can be formulated to comply with stringent FDA requirements. The material can be sterilized via a variety of methods, including steam autoclaving, ethylene oxide (ETO), gamma, e-beam and numerous other techniques, meeting all required approvals such as BfR XV, FDA 21 CFR 177.2600, USP Class VI.\n\nDurable: LSR parts can withstand extreme temperatures, which makes them an ideal choice for components under the hood of cars and in close proximity to engines. Parts fabricated via liquid silicone rubber injection molding are fire retardant and will not melt.\n\nChemical resistance: Liquid silicone rubber resists water, oxidation and some chemical solutions such as acids and alkali.\n\nTemperature resistance: Compared to other elastomers, silicone can withstand a wide range of high/low temperature extremes.\n\nMechanical properties: LSR has good elongation, high tear and tensile strength, excellent flexibility and a hardness range of 5 to 80 Shore A.\n\nElectrical properties: LSR has excellent insulating properties, which offer an appealing option for a host of electrical applications. Compared to conventional insulating material, silicone can perform in far higher and lower temperatures.\n\nTransparency and pigmentation: LSR possesses a natural transparency, this attribute makes it possible to produce, colorful, custom, molded products\n\nLiquid silicone rubbers are supplied in barrels. Because of their low viscosity, these rubbers can be pumped through pipelines and tubes to the vulcanization equipment. The two components are pumped through a static mixer by a metering pump. One of the components contains the catalyst, typically platinum based. A coloring paste as well as other additives can also be added before the material enters the static mixer section. In the static mixer the components are well mixed and are transferred to the cooled metering section of the injection molding machine. The static mixer renders a very homogeneous material that results in products that are not only very consistent throughout the part, but also from part to part. This is in contrast to solid silicone rubber materials that are purchased pre-mixed and partially vulcanized. In contrast, hard silicone rubbers are processed by transfer molding and result in less material consistency and control, leading to higher part variability. Additionally, solid silicone rubber materials are processed at higher temperatures and require longer vulcanization times.\n\nLiquid silicone has a very low viscosity index and requires perfect seals of the mould cavity in order to guarantee a burr-free finished product.\nAs injections are carried out at high temperature, steel dilation and natural shrinkage of materials must be considered at the design stage of the LSR injection tooling. \n\nFrom the metering section of the injection molding machine, the compound is pushed through cooled sprue and runner systems into a heated cavity where the vulcanization takes place. The cold runner and general cooling results in no loss of material in the feed lines. The cooling allows production of LSR parts with nearly zero material waste, eliminating trimming operations and yielding significant savings in material cost.\n\nLiquid silicone rubbers are supplied in a variety of containers, from tubes to 55 gallon drums. Because of their viscous nature, these liquids are pumped at high pressures (500 - 5000 psi) based on the durometer of the material. The raw materials are shipped in two separate containers (known in the industry as a kit) identified as \"A\" and B\" compounds, with the \"B\" side usually containing the catalyst, but may vary based on the brand of silicone used. The two (A and B) compounds must be mixed in a 1 to 1 ratio, usually by way of a static mixer, adding pigment during the mixing process before the curing process begins. Once the two components come together the curing process begins immediately. A chiller supplying cold water to jacketed fittings is typically used to retard the curing process prior to the materials introduction to the mold. A color pigment can be added via a color injector used in conjunction with the material pump (closed loop metering system) before the material enters the static mixer section.\n\nIn a cold deck scenario, the 1 to 1 mixed compound is pumped through cooled sprue and runner systems into a heated cavity where the vulcanization takes place. The cold runner and general cooling results in minimal loss of material as the injection occurs directly into the part or cavity, saving on overall material costs and using high consistency rubber. The cooling allows production of LSR parts with nearly zero material valve gate waste, however this does not guarantee a \"flash free\" finished part. Molds and tooling are varying in design, execution and cost. A good cold runner is expensive as compared to conventional hot runner tooling, and has the potential to provide a high level of performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "10256071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10256071", "title": "Internally rifled boiler tubes", "text": "Internally rifled boiler tubes\n\nInternally rifled boiler tubes are used to evaporate water into steam inside boilers of thermal power plants. Because of their internally rifled shape, they are more efficient. The boiling crisis takes place later, thus allowing for greater heat transfer between the pipe and the fluid inside the pipe. Costs of this type of tube are generally higher than plain tubes. Current research into these tubes is being conducted due to their potential to increase efficiency of power plants.\n\nThese tubes are sometimes called \"Serve tubes\" after the name of their French inventor. However, Serve's tubes were for use in fire-tube boilers rather than the water-tube boilers used in modern power stations and were lobed or finned rather than rifled. Later on Siemens came up with the research project and introduced the name SLMF (Siemens Low Mass Flux).\n\nThe internally rifled (also known as ribbed) tubes are used in boilers and heat exchangers for efficient results in terms of heat transfer. The internal ribs of rifles introduce the centrifugal force inside the tubes. The flowing media ( which commonly is a mixture of steam and water) as a result of this centrifugal force, separates water from the steam mixture and forces water towards the wall and there is no steam-film formation. This process increases the surface area for the maximum heat transfer when compared to the smooth tubes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57303856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57303856", "title": "International Journal of Remote Sensing", "text": "International Journal of Remote Sensing\n\nThe International Journal of Remote Sensing is a semimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on remote sensing. It was established in 1980 and is published by Taylor & Francis on behalf of the Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society, of which it is the official journal. The journal Remote Sensing Reviews, which was established in 1983, was incorporated into the \"International Journal of Remote Sensing\" in 2001. The editors-in-chief are Timothy A. Warner (West Virginia University) and Arthur P. Cracknell (University of Dundee). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.724.\n"}
{"id": "55550723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55550723", "title": "Jonathan Maslow", "text": "Jonathan Maslow\n\nJonathan Evan Maslow (August 4, 1948 – February 19, 2008) was an American journalist and author who wrote extensively about nature, with a focus on obscure and little-known animals.\n\nMaslow was born on August 4, 1948, in Long Branch, New Jersey. He graduated from Red Bank Regional High School in 1966 and has an annual college scholarship funded by members of his graduating class that is awarded in his memory to a graduate of the school attending college. He graduated from Marlboro College in 1971 with a major in American literature and graduated from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in 1974 with a degree in journalism.\n\nHis published works included \"The Owl Papers\", a 1983 book illustrated by Leonard Baskin (a cousin of Maslow's) about his search for a short-eared owl in the New Jersey Meadowlands. Perpetuating his theme of tracing unusual animals, his 1986 book, \"Bird of Life, Bird of Death: A Naturalist’s Journey Through a Land of Political Turmoil\", followed the quetzal bird in Guatemala, while \"Sacred Horses: The Memoirs of a Turkmen Cowboy\", published in 1994, followed the Akhal-Teke horse in present-day Turkmenistan. He also worked as a journalist at the \"Cape May County Herald\" (based at the southern tip of New Jersey) from 1997 to 2002 and then as an editor at the \"Herald News\" (in the state's north). Maslow was honored in 2001 by the New Jersey Press Association for \"Towers in Service - The $14M Question,\" a piece he wrote for the \"Cape May County Herald Times\". He wrote \"The Last Lector\", a play based on a story from his 1996 book \"The Torrid Zone; Seven Stories From the Gulf Coast\".\n\nMaslow hosted an episode of the BBC's \"Natural World\" series in 1989, taking viewers on a journey through the Darién Gap in the production entitled \"A Tramp in the Darien.\" \n\nA resident of the Dennisville section of Dennis Township, New Jersey and the Passaic Park neighborhood of Passaic, Maslow died of cancer at the age of 59 on February 19, 2008, in Greenwich, Connecticut. He was survived by his third wife, Liliya Khobotkova.\n"}
{"id": "4482807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4482807", "title": "Josephine Johnson", "text": "Josephine Johnson\n\nJosephine Winslow Johnson (June 20, 1910 – February 27, 1990) was an American novelist, poet, and essayist. She won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1935 at age 24 for her first novel, \"Now in November\". Shortly thereafter, she published \"Winter Orchard\", a collection of short stories that had previously appeared in \"The Atlantic Monthly\", \"Vanity Fair\", \"The St. Louis Review\", and \"Hound & Horn\". Of these stories, \"Dark\" won an O. Henry Award in 1934, and \"John the Six\" won an O. Henry Award third prize the following year. Johnson continued writing short stories and won three more O. Henry Awards: for \"Alexander to the Park\" (1942), \"The Glass Pigeon\" (1943), and \"Night Flight\" (1944).\n\nJohnson was born June 20, 1910, in Kirkwood, Missouri. She attended Washington University in St. Louis from 1926 to 1931, but did not earn a degree. She wrote her first novel, \"Now In November\", while living in her mother's attic in Webster Groves, Missouri. She remained on her farm in Webster Groves and completed \"Winter Orchard\" in 1935. She published four more books before marrying Grant G. Cannon, editor in chief of the \"Farm Quarterly\", in 1942. The couple moved to Iowa City, where she taught at the University of Iowa for the next three years. They moved to Hamilton County, Ohio in 1947, where she published \"Wildwood\".\n\nJohnson had three children: Terence, Ann, and Carol. The Cannons continued to move beyond the advancing urban sprawl of Cincinnati, finally settling on the wooded acreage in Clermont County, Ohio, which is the setting of \"The Inland Island\". In 1955, Washington University awarded her an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree. She published four more books before her death, from pneumonia, on February 27, 1990, in Batavia, Ohio, at age 79.\n\n"}
{"id": "5874245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5874245", "title": "List of Dipluridae species", "text": "List of Dipluridae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Dipluridae as of Dec. 25, 2016.\n\"Allothele\" \n\"Andethele\" \n\"Australothele\" \n\"Caledothele\" \n\n\"Carrai\" \n\"Cethegus\" \n\"Chilehexops\" \n\n\"Diplura\" \n\n\"Euagrus\" \n\n\"Harmonicon\" \n\n\"Indothele\" \n\n\"Ischnothele\" \n\n\"Lathrothele\" \n\n\"Leptothele\" \n\"Linothele\" \n\n\"Masteria\" \n\n\"Microhexura\" \n\n\"Namirea\" \n\n\"Phyxioschema\" \n\n\"Stenygrocercus\" \n\n\"Striamea\" \n\n\"Thelechoris\" \n\n\"Trechona\" \n\n\"Troglodiplura\" \n\n"}
{"id": "20689214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20689214", "title": "List of Jasminum species", "text": "List of Jasminum species\n\nThis is a list of Jasminum (jasmine) species. \n\n"}
{"id": "2935355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2935355", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on Artemisia", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on Artemisia\n\nArtemisia species (wormwoods, mugworts and sagebrushes) are used as food plants by the caterpillars of a number of Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths), including:\n\nSpecies which feed exclusively on \"Artemisia\" - they are monophagous\n\n\nSpecies which feed on \"Artemisia\" and other plants - they are polyphagous\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40846927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40846927", "title": "List of Ramsar sites in Chad", "text": "List of Ramsar sites in Chad\n\nRamsar sites in Chad refer to the six sites designated as Ramsar Wetlands of International Importance in Chad. They cover an area of\n. They include Lac Fitri, Partie tchadienne du lac Tchad, Plaine de Massenya, Plaines d'inondation des Bahr Aouk et Salamat, and Réserve de faune de Binder-Léré.\n\nThe Lac Fitri Ramsar Site measures in size and was established on 13 June 1990. The Lake Fitri expands substantially during the rainy season, varying from year to year. Swamps encircle the lake periphery over a length of 150 km. \"Echinochloa stagnina\", \"Vossia cuspidata\" and \"Nymphaea aquatica\" are the common vegetation types noted while \"Acacia nilotica\" and \"Mitragyna inermis\" grow in the flooded zone of the lake. The fringe land area around the lake has annual grasses and sedge. Also, as an Important Bird Area it has both breeding and non-breeding species. It is wintering ground for a large number of Palearctic waterbirds. The large number of bird species recorded here are \"Aythya nyroca\", \"Balearica pavonina\", \"Ardeola ralloides\", \"Platalea alba\", \"Dendrocygna bicolor\", \"Dendrocygna viduata\", \"Anas acuta\", and \"Anas querquedula\". It provides refuge during the drought season to Afrotropical species and elephants. It is also known as a productive fishing lake with an annual fish catch of 3,000 tonnes.\n\nThe Partie tchadienne du lac Tchad Ramsar Site measures in size. It was established as a Ramsar Wetland site in 2001 It is part of the greater transboundary Lake Chad shared with Cameroon, Niger, and Nigeria. The Partie tchadienne du lac Tchad was established under a cooperative effort of the Government of Chad, the Lake Chad Basin Commission, the Ramsar Bureau, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the World Bank, and the United Nations Development Programme(UNDP). It covers the Chad part of Lake Chad bordering a cordon of dunes on the northeast called the \"erg\" while the southern limits of the lake consists of plains. It is a composite of \"open waters, islets and sandbanks, polders, oases and temporary and permanent \"natron\" or alkalai pools\" covering all the four nations which share it. Apart from water birds, it has about 150 fish species; the Kouri Ox is an endemic and threatened species here. The lake's flows are regulated and it also helps inn replenishing ground water. It provides livelihood for 3 million fisher folk. Cattle, sheep and camel are also raised on its banks. Blue algae (\"spiruline\") is also an important product from the lake.\n\nThe Plaine de Massenya Ramsar Site measures in size. It was established on 17 October 2008 in southwestern regions of the Chad Basin. The Plaine de Massenya wetland consists of freshwater marshes, rivers, streams and creeks. It provides flood moderation, retains the sediment load, and helps in recharge of ground water. Apart from 366 species of birds, there are also wildlife faunal species of African elephant, leopards, Nile crocodile and many more. Fish species also are in abundance and they feed on the plant species \"Echinachloa\" that thrive in the lake. People living in the area sustain their livelihood by fishing, agriculture and rearing of livestock.\n\nThe Plaines d'inondation des Bahr Aouk et Salamat Ramsar Site measures in size and is one of the world's largest Ramsar sites. It was established on 1 June 2006, and is situated in a natural depression bordering the Central Africa Republic. The Plaines d'inondation des Bahr Aouk et Salamat wetland, which also subsumes the Zakouma National Park, provides sustenance to the wildlife of the area. Migratory waterbirds are a common sight. Fauna reported are species of hippos, leopards, elephants and many kinds antelopes. It is an important habitat for fish breeding and the annual fish catch is reported to be 15,000 tonnes. The wetlands fauna is threatened by poaching and vegetation is subject to intense grazing and also forest fires which need to be suitably addressed through community participatory management and environmental education. In this context, GEF has also launched a pilot project in the area. After the civil war which ravaged the area, the Zakouma National Park has been strengthened with induction of elephants, giraffes and lions with assistance from the European Union.\n\nThe Plaines d'inondation du Logone et les dépressions Toupouri Ramsar Site covers an area of . It was established on 14 November 2005 and is one of Africa's largest wetlands. The Plaines d'inondation du Logone et les dépressions Toupouri wetland has number of water bodies in the form of rivers, permanent and temporary ponds, flood plains and lakes. In this widely varying ecosystem, the flora consists of many species including the African Palmyra palm and the néré (\"Parkia biglobosa\") which are in the threatened list. The avi fauna consists of Occidental Palearctic and Ethiopian migratory species such as the black crowned-crane, spur-winged goose and whistling duck'. Fishing is year round vocation of the people who reside in the wetland. The threats faced in the wetland relate to poaching, overgrazing, forest fires, oil exploration and pesticide. The GEF, World Bank, UNDP and Lake Chad Basin Commission have launched a project for its management.\n\nRéserve de faune de Binder-Léré Ramsar Site covers an area of . It was established as Ramsar Wetland reserve on 14 November 2005 on the Chad-Cameroonian border in Mayo-Kebbi administrative region.\nThe wetland consists of lakes, ephemeral and perennial streams, and marshes. The Gauthiot Waterfalls on the Gauthiot River acts as barrier for movement of fish species from the Niger River, upstream into the Lake Chad. The local Moundang tribals hold this falls in veneration. The site hosts a number faunal species of manatee, crocodiles, hippos, and cheetahs which are in the endangered list. It is habitat for waterbirds and some of the species are \"Dendrocygna\" spp., \"Balearica pavonina\", \"Pelecanus rufescens\" and \"Plectropterus gambensis\". Fishing, agriculture, hunting and rearing of livestock are the vocations of the local people for sustenence.\n"}
{"id": "21161124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21161124", "title": "List of earthquakes in Japan", "text": "List of earthquakes in Japan\n\nThis is a list of earthquakes in Japan with either a magnitude greater than or equal to 7.0 or which caused significant damage or casualties. As indicated below, magnitude is measured on the Richter magnitude scale (\"M\") or the moment magnitude scale (\"M\"), or the surface wave magnitude scale (\"M\") for very old earthquakes. The present list is not exhaustive, and reliable and precise magnitude data is scarce for earthquakes that occurred prior to the development of modern measuring instruments.\n\nThe islands of Japan are primarily the result of several large oceanic movements occurring over hundreds of millions of years from the mid-Silurian to the Pleistocene as a result of the subduction of the Philippine Sea Plate beneath the continental Amurian Plate and Okinawa Plate to the south, and subduction of the Pacific Plate under the Okhotsk Plate to the north.\n\nJapan was originally attached to the eastern coast of the Eurasian continent. The subducting plates, being deeper than the Eurasian plate, pulled Japan eastward, opening the Sea of Japan around 15 million years ago. The Strait of Tartary and the Korea Strait opened much later. Today the Japanese archipelago is considered a mature island arc and is the result of several generations of subducting plates. Approximately 15,000 km of oceanic floor has passed under the Japanese area in the last 450 million years, with most being fully subducted.\n\nJapan is situated in a volcanic zone on the Pacific Ring of Fire. Frequent low intensity earth tremors and occasional volcanic activity are felt throughout the islands. Destructive earthquakes, often resulting in tsunamis, occur several times a century.\n\nAlthough there is mention of an earthquake in Yamato in what is now Nara Prefecture on August 23, 416, the first to be reliably documented took place in Nara prefecture on May 28, 599 during the reign of Empress Suiko, destroying buildings throughout Yamato province. Many historical records of Japanese earthquakes exist, and the Imperial Earthquake Investigation Committee was created in 1892 to conduct a systematic collation of the available historical data, published in 1899 as the \"Catalogue of Historical Data on Japanese Earthquakes\". Following the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, the Imperial Earthquake Investigation Committee was superseded by the Earthquake Research Institute in 1925. In modern times, the catalogues compiled by Tatsuo Usami are considered to provide the most authoritative source of information on historic earthquakes, with the 2003 edition detailing 486 that took place between 416 and 1888.\n\nIn Japan, the \"shindo\" scale is commonly used to measure earthquakes by seismic intensity instead of magnitude. This is similar to the Modified Mercalli scale used in the United States or the Liedu scale used in China, meaning that the scale measures the intensity of an earthquake at a given location instead of measuring the energy an earthquake releases at its epicenter (its magnitude) as the Richter scale does.\n\nUnlike other seismic intensity scales, which normally have twelve levels of intensity, as used by the Japan Meteorological Agency is a unit with ten levels, ranging from \"shindo\" zero, a very light tremor, to \"shindo\" seven, a severe earthquake. Intermediate levels for earthquakes with \"shindo\" five and six are \"weak\" or \"strong\", according to the degree of destruction they cause. Earthquakes measured at \"shindo\" four and lower are considered to be weak to mild, while those measured at five and above can cause heavy damage to furniture, wall tiles, wooden houses, reinforced concrete buildings, roads, gas and water pipes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21546989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21546989", "title": "List of fulmarine petrel species", "text": "List of fulmarine petrel species\n\nThis is a list of the fulmarine petrels, one of four types of Procellariidae.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9125452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9125452", "title": "List of rivers of Kazakhstan", "text": "List of rivers of Kazakhstan\n\nRivers of Kazakhstan include:\n\n"}
{"id": "8591819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591819", "title": "List of stars in Pyxis", "text": "List of stars in Pyxis\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Pyxis, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1314474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1314474", "title": "List of states of matter", "text": "List of states of matter\n\nClassically, states of matter are distinguished by changes in the properties of matter related to external factors such as pressure and temperature. States are usually distinguished by a discontinuity in one of those properties: for example, raising the temperature of ice produces a clear discontinuity at 0°C as energy goes into phase transition, instead of temperature increase. The classical states of matter are usually summarised as: solid, liquid, gas, and plasma. In the 20th century, increased understanding of the more exotic properties of matter resulted in the identification of many additional states of matter, none of which are observed in normal conditions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9017508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9017508", "title": "List of tobacco diseases", "text": "List of tobacco diseases\n\nThis is a list of diseases of tobacco (\"Nicotiana tabacum\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1334312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1334312", "title": "Megathrust earthquake", "text": "Megathrust earthquake\n\nMegathrust earthquakes occur at subduction zones at destructive convergent plate boundaries, where one tectonic plate is forced underneath another. These interplate earthquakes are the planet's most powerful, with moment magnitudes (\"M\") that can exceed 9.0. Since 1900, all earthquakes of magnitude 9.0 or greater have been megathrust earthquakes. No other type of known terrestrial source of tectonic activity has produced earthquakes of this scale.\n\nDuring the rupture, one side of the fault is pushed upwards relative to the other, and it is this type of movement that is known as thrust. They are a type of dip-slip fault. A thrust fault is a reverse fault with a dip of 45° or less. Oblique-slip faults have significant components of different slip styles. The term \"megathrust\" does not have a widely accepted rigorous definition, but is used to refer to an extremely large thrust fault, typically formed at the plate interface along a subduction zone such as the Sunda megathrust. It is mostly American terminology.\n\nThe major subduction zone is associated with the Pacific and Indian Oceans and is responsible for the volcanic activity associated with the Pacific Ring of Fire. Since these earthquakes deform the ocean floor, they often generate a significant series of tsunami waves. They are known to produce intense shaking for periods of time that can last for up to a few minutes.\n\nIn Japan, the Nankai megathrust under the Nankai Trough is responsible for Nankai megathrust earthquakes and associated tsunamis.\n\nA study reported in 2016 found that the largest megathrust quakes are associated with downgoing slabs with the shallowest dip, so-called flat slab subduction.\n\nExamples of megathrust earthquakes are listed in the following table.\n\n"}
{"id": "21482299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21482299", "title": "National Energy Modeling System", "text": "National Energy Modeling System\n\nThe National Energy Modeling System (NEMS) is an economic and energy model of United States energy markets created at the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA). NEMS projects the production, consumption, conversion, import, export, and pricing of energy. The model relies on assumptions for economic variables, including world energy market interactions, resource availability (which influences costs), technological choice and characteristics, and demographics.\n\nThe primary use for NEMS is to produce the \"Annual Energy Outlook\", published on the EIA website in the early months of each year. NEMS is maintained by the EIA Office of Energy Analysis and was first used for \"AEO\" projections in 1994.\n\nNEMS is also used for special requests related to scenario analysis, primarily from the U.S. Congress. Subjects such as the economic and environmental impacts of energy-related policy or structure changes are most frequently studied using NEMS.\n\nThe model contains several modules that interact as part of the equilibrium calculations for long-term projections. These modules are as follows:\n\nEach of these NEMS modules is maintained annually, with changes to data and methodology described in periodic updates to module-specific documentation reports..\n\nNEMS accounts for a variety of energy sources used for fuel purposes (heat and power) and feedstock purposes. The primary energy sources and carriers reported in NEMS include crude oil and lease condensate, natural gas plant liquids, dry natural gas, coal, nuclear/uranium, conventional hydroelectric power, biomass, other renewable energy, and other (not otherwise specified) primary energy. The end-use consumption energy carriers and feedstocks reported by NEMS include, among others, electricity, natural gas, coal, gasoline, distillate oil (diesel), residual oil, propane, kerosene, liquefied refinery gases, jet fuel, renewables (primarily biomass and wind), and petrochemical feedstocks.\n\nEach of the modules in NEMS may employ its own unique sub-national regional structure. \nProjections from NEMS are provided at the national level; however, regional results are generally available consistent with the modules' regional definitions. For example, energy consumption by fuel and sector is reported for the nine Census Divisions, the geographic definition used by the four end-use energy demand modules.\nEIA provides access to NEMS to outside users through its model archival program. An archive includes the model source code and input data used to derive a given projection case, such as the \"reference case.\" The stated archive purpose \"is to demonstrate that the published results from the AEO reference case can be replicated with the model and to disclose the source code and inputs used.\" The model is not widely used outside of EIA, as deploying the model requires additional commercial software, such as compilers and optimization modeling packages, in addition to the model source code and data. \n"}
{"id": "36267064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36267064", "title": "Near-Earth Object Camera", "text": "Near-Earth Object Camera\n\nThe Near-Earth Object Camera (NEOCam) is a proposed space-based infrared telescope designed to survey the Solar System for potentially hazardous asteroids. NEOCam would survey from the Sun–Earth Lagrange point, allowing it to look close to the Sun and see objects inside Earth's orbit. NEOCam would be the successor of the NEOWISE mission; the principal investigator is also NEOWISE's principal investigator, Amy Mainzer of NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory.\n\nProposals for NEOCam were submitted in 2006, 2010, and 2015 to the NASA Discovery Program, but it has not been selected for launch.\n\nThe primary scientific goal of NEOCam is to discover and characterize the orbit of most of the potentially hazardous asteroids larger than over the course of its four-year mission. NEOCam's field of view would be large enough to allow the mission to discover tens of thousands of new NEOs with sizes as small as in diameter. Secondary science goals include detection and characterization of approximately one million asteroids in the asteroid belt and thousands of comets, as well as identification of potential NEO targets for human and robotic exploration.\n\nIn 2016, the NEOCam team proposed to launch in 2021 and find two-thirds of missing objects in the larger-than-140-meters category within four years.\n\nAlthough Congress mandated NASA in 2005 to achieve by the year 2020 specific levels of search completeness for discovering, cataloging, and characterizing dangerous asteroids larger than (Act of 2005, H.R. 1022; 109th), no new funds were appropriated for this effort, NASA has not prioritized this mandate, and repeatedly directed the NEOCam project to compete for funds against science missions unrelated to planetary defence and disaster mitigation planning.\n\nProposals for NEOCam were submitted in 2006, 2010, and 2015 to the NASA Discovery Program. In 2010, NEOCam was selected to receive technology development funding to design and test new infrared detectors optimized for asteroid and comet detection and sizing. On 30 September 2015, the Discovery Program advanced NEOCam along with other four candidate missions for refinement during the next year, with each mission receiving for a one-year study. Although it was not successful in the January 2017 selection, it was given an additional year of development funding. NEOCam remains a concept study (Phase A), and there are calls to fund the mission from somewhere besides NASA's Planetary Science Division, perhaps from the Planetary Defense Program or directly from Congress itself since it is a public safety issue.\n\nThe primary instrument is a infrared telescope operating in two wavelengths, 4–5.2 µm and 6–10 µm, with a large field of view of 11.56 square degrees. It would use a modified version of a mercury–cadmium–telluride detector called the HgCdTe Astronomical Wide Area Infrared Imager (HAWAII) developed by Teledyne Imaging Sensors, the mission prototype of which was successfully tested in April 2013. The detector array would be 2,048 × 2,048 pixels and produce 82 gigabits of data per day. The detector has good infrared performance without the use of cryogenic fluid refrigeration; it would be passively cooled to using techniques proven by the Spitzer Space Telescope.\n\nThe spacecraft would operate in a halo orbit around the Sun–Earth , and employ a Sun shield. This orbit would allow fast data downlink speeds to Earth, allowing full-frame images to be downloaded from the telescope.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44862806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44862806", "title": "Outline of evolution", "text": "Outline of evolution\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to evolution:\n\nEvolution – change in heritable traits of biological organisms over generations due to natural selection, mutation, gene flow, and genetic drift. Also known as descent with modification. Over time these evolutionary processes lead to formation of new species (speciation), changes within lineages (anagenesis), and loss of species (extinction). \"Evolution\" is also another name for evolutionary biology, the subfield of biology concerned with studying evolutionary processes that produced the diversity of life on Earth.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also Basic principles (above)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23645", "title": "Precambrian", "text": "Precambrian\n\nThe Precambrian (or Pre-Cambrian, sometimes abbreviated pЄ, or Cryptozoic) is the earliest part of Earth's history, set before the current Phanerozoic Eon. The Precambrian is so named because it preceded the Cambrian, the first period of the Phanerozoic eon, which is named after Cambria, the Latinised name for Wales, where rocks from this age were first studied. The Precambrian accounts for 88% of the Earth's geologic time.\n\nThe Precambrian (colored green in the timeline figure) is an informal unit of geologic time, subdivided into three eons (Hadean, Archean, Proterozoic) of the geologic time scale. It spans from the formation of Earth about 4.6 billion years ago (Ga) to the beginning of the Cambrian Period, about million years ago (Ma), when hard-shelled creatures first appeared in abundance.\n\nRelatively little is known about the Precambrian, despite it making up roughly seven-eighths of the Earth's history, and what is known has largely been discovered from the 1960s onwards. The Precambrian fossil record is poorer than that of the succeeding Phanerozoic, and fossils from the Precambrian (e.g. stromatolites) are of limited biostratigraphic use. This is because many Precambrian rocks have been heavily metamorphosed, obscuring their origins, while others have been destroyed by erosion, or remain deeply buried beneath Phanerozoic strata.\n\nIt is thought that the Earth coalesced from material in orbit around the Sun at roughly 4,543 Ma, and may have been struck by a very large (Mars-sized) planetesimal shortly after it formed, splitting off material that formed the Moon (see Giant impact hypothesis). A stable crust was apparently in place by 4,433 Ma, since zircon crystals from Western Australia have been dated at 4,404 ± 8 Ma.\n\nThe term \"Precambrian\" is recognized by the International Commission on Stratigraphy as the only \"supereon\" in geologic time; it is so called because it includes the Hadean (~4.6—4 billion), Archean (4—2.5 billion), and Proterozoic (2.5 billion—541 million) eons. (There is only one other eon: the Phanerozoic, 541 million-present.) \"Precambrian\" is still used by geologists and paleontologists for general discussions not requiring the more specific eon names. , the United States Geological Survey considers the term informal, lacking a stratigraphic rank.\n\nA specific date for the origin of life has not been determined. Carbon found in 3.8 billion-year-old rocks (Archean eon) from islands off western Greenland may be of organic origin. Well-preserved microscopic fossils of bacteria older than 3.46 billion years have been found in Western Australia. Probable fossils 100 million years older have been found in the same area. However, there is evidence that life could have evolved over 4.280 billion years ago. There is a fairly solid record of bacterial life throughout the remainder (Proterozoic eon) of the Precambrian.\n\nExcluding a few contested reports of much older forms from North America and India, the first complex multicellular life forms seem to have appeared at roughly 1500 Ma, in the Mesoproterozoic era of the Proterozoic eon. Fossil evidence from the later Ediacaran period of such complex life comes from the Lantian formation, at least 580 million years ago. A very diverse collection of soft-bodied forms is found in a variety of locations worldwide and date to between 635 and 542 Ma. These are referred to as Ediacaran or Vendian biota. Hard-shelled creatures appeared toward the end of that time span, marking the beginning of the Phanerozoic eon. By the middle of the following Cambrian period, a very diverse fauna is recorded in the Burgess Shale, including some which may represent stem groups of modern taxa. The increase in diversity of lifeforms during the early Cambrian is called the Cambrian explosion of life.\n\nWhile land seems to have been devoid of plants and animals, cyanobacteria and other microbes formed prokaryotic mats that covered terrestrial areas.\n\nTracks from an animal with leg like appendages have been found in what was mud 551 million years ago.\n\nEvidence of the details of plate motions and other tectonic activity in the Precambrian has been poorly preserved. It is generally believed that small proto-continents existed prior to 4280 Ma, and that most of the Earth's landmasses collected into a single supercontinent around 1130 Ma. The supercontinent, known as Rodinia, broke up around 750 Ma. A number of glacial periods have been identified going as far back as the Huronian epoch, roughly 2400–2100 Ma. One of the best studied is the Sturtian-Varangian glaciation, around 850–635 Ma, which may have brought glacial conditions all the way to the equator, resulting in a \"Snowball Earth\".\n\nThe atmosphere of the early Earth is not well understood. Most geologists believe it was composed primarily of nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and other relatively inert gases, and was lacking in free oxygen. There is, however, evidence that an oxygen-rich atmosphere existed since the early Archean.\n\nAt present, it is still believed that molecular oxygen was not a significant fraction of Earth's atmosphere until after photosynthetic life forms evolved and began to produce it in large quantities as a byproduct of their metabolism. This radical shift from a chemically inert to an oxidizing atmosphere caused an ecological crisis, sometimes called the oxygen catastrophe. At first, oxygen would have quickly combined with other elements in Earth's crust, primarily iron, removing it from the atmosphere. After the supply of oxidizable surfaces ran out, oxygen would have begun to accumulate in the atmosphere, and the modern high-oxygen atmosphere would have developed. Evidence for this lies in older rocks that contain massive banded iron formations that were laid down as iron oxides.\n\nA terminology has evolved covering the early years of the Earth's existence, as radiometric dating has allowed real dates to be assigned to specific formations and features. The Precambrian is divided into three eons: the Hadean (– Ma), Archean (- Ma) and Proterozoic (- Ma). See Timetable of the Precambrian.\nIt has been proposed that the Precambrian should be divided into eons and eras that reflect stages of planetary evolution, rather than the current scheme based upon numerical ages. Such a system could rely on events in the stratigraphic record and be demarcated by GSSPs. The Precambrian could be divided into five \"natural\" eons, characterized as follows:\n\nThe movement of Earth's plates has caused the formation and break-up of continents over time, including occasional formation of a supercontinent containing most or all of the landmass. The earliest known supercontinent was Vaalbara. It formed from proto-continents and was a supercontinent 3.636 billion years ago. Vaalbara broke up c. 2.845–2.803 Ga ago. The supercontinent Kenorland was formed c. 2.72 Ga ago and then broke sometime after 2.45–2.1 Ga into the proto-continent cratons called Laurentia, Baltica, Yilgarn craton, and Kalahari. The supercontinent Columbia or Nuna formed 2.06–1.82 billion years ago and broke up about 1.5–1.35 billion years ago. The supercontinent Rodinia is thought to have formed about 1.13–1.071 billion years ago, to have embodied most or all of Earth's continents and to have broken up into eight continents around 750–600 million years ago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "747328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=747328", "title": "Proxy (climate)", "text": "Proxy (climate)\n\nIn the study of past climates (\"paleoclimatology\"), climate proxies are preserved physical characteristics of the past that stand in for direct meteorological measurements and enable scientists to reconstruct the climatic conditions over a longer fraction of the Earth's history. Reliable global records of climate only began in the 1880s, and proxies provide the only means for scientists to determine climatic patterns before record-keeping began.\n\nExamples of proxies include ice cores, tree rings, sub-fossil pollen, boreholes, corals, lake and ocean sediments, and carbonate speleothems. The character of deposition or rate of growth of the proxies' material has been influenced by the climatic conditions of the time in which they were laid down or grew. Chemical traces produced by climatic changes, such as quantities of particular isotopes, can be recovered from proxies. Some proxies, such as gas bubbles trapped in ice, enable traces of the ancient atmosphere to be recovered and measured directly to provide a history of fluctuations in the composition of the Earth's atmosphere. To produce the most precise results, systematic cross-verification between proxy indicators is necessary for accuracy in readings and record-keeping.\n\nProxies can be combined to produce temperature reconstructions longer than the instrumental temperature record and can inform discussions of global warming and climate history. The distribution of proxy records, just like the instrumental record, is not at all uniform, with more records in the northern hemisphere.\n\nIn science, it is sometimes necessary to study a variable which cannot be measured directly. This can be done by \"proxy methods,\" in which a variable which correlates with the variable of interest is measured, and then used to infer the value of the variable of interest. Proxy methods are of particular use in the study of the past climate, beyond times when direct measurements of temperatures are available.\n\nMost proxy records have to be calibrated against independent temperature measurements, or against a directly calibrated proxy, during their period of overlap to estimate the relationship between temperature and the proxy. The longer history of the proxy is then used to reconstruct temperature from earlier periods.\n\n Ice cores are cylindrical samples from within ice sheets in the Greenland, Antarctic, and North American regions. First attempts of extraction occurred in 1956 as part of the International Geophysical Year. As original means of extraction, the U.S. Army’s Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory used an -long modified electrodrill in 1968 at Camp Century, Greenland, and Byrd Station, Antarctica. Their machinery could drill through 15–20 feet of ice in 40–50 minutes. From 1300 to in depth, core samples were 4 ¼ inches in diameter and 10 to long. Deeper samples of 15 to long were not uncommon. Every subsequent drilling team improves their method with each new effort.\n\nThe ratio between the O and O water molecule isotopologues in an ice core helps determine past temperatures and snow accumulations. The heavier isotope (O) condenses more readily as temperatures decrease and falls more easily as precipitation, while the lighter isotope (O) needs colder conditions to precipitate. The farther north one needs to go to find elevated levels of the O isotopologue, the warmer the period.\n\nIn addition to oxygen isotopes, water contains hydrogen isotopes - H and H, usually referred to as H and D (for deuterium) - that are also used for temperature proxies. Normally, ice cores from Greenland are analyzed for δO and those from Antarctica for δ-deuterium. Those cores that analyze for both show a lack of agreement. (In the figure, δO is for the trapped air, not the ice. δD is for the ice.)\n\nAir bubbles in the ice, which contain trapped greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane, are also helpful in determining past climate changes.\n\nFrom 1989-1992, the European Greenland Ice Core Drilling Project drilled in central Greenland at coordinates 72° 35' N, 37° 38' W. The ices in that core were 3840 years old at a depth of 770 m, 40,000 years old at 2521 m, and 200,000 years old or more at 3029 m bedrock. Ice cores in Antarctica can reveal the climate records for the past 650,000 years.\n\nLocation maps and a complete list of U.S. ice core drilling sites can be found on the website for the National Ice Core Laboratory: http://icecores.org/\n\nDendroclimatology is the science of determining past climates from trees, primarily from properties of the annual tree rings. Tree rings are wider when conditions favor growth, narrower when times are difficult. Other properties of the annual rings, such as maximum latewood density (MXD) have been shown to be better proxies than simple ring width. Using tree rings, scientists have estimated many local climates for hundreds to thousands of years previous. By combining multiple tree-ring studies (sometimes with other climate proxy records), scientists have estimated past regional and global climates (see Temperature record of the past 1000 years).\n\nNew approaches retrieve data such as content of past atmospheres from fossil leaf stomata and isotope composition, measuring cellular CO concentrations. A 2014 study was able to use the carbon-13 isotope ratios to estimate the CO amounts of the past 400 million years, the findings hint at a higher climate sensitivity to CO concentrations.\n\nBorehole temperatures are used as temperature proxies. Since heat transfer through the ground is slow, temperature measurements at a series of different depths down the borehole, adjusted for the effect of rising heat from inside the Earth, can be \"inverted\" (a mathematical formula to solve matrix equations) to produce a non-unique series of surface temperature values. The solution is \"non-unique\" because there are multiple possible surface temperature reconstructions that can produce the same borehole temperature profile. In addition, due to physical limitations, the reconstructions are inevitably \"smeared\", and become more smeared further back in time. When reconstructing temperatures around 1,500 AD, boreholes have a temporal resolution of a few centuries. At the start of the 20th Century, their resolution is a few decades; hence they do not provide a useful check on the instrumental temperature record. However, they are broadly comparable. These confirmations have given paleoclimatologists the confidence that they can measure the temperature of 500 years ago. This is concluded by a depth scale of about 492 feet (150 meters) to measure the temperatures from 100 years ago and 1,640 feet (500 meters) to measure the temperatures from 1,000 years ago.\n\nBoreholes have a great advantage over many other proxies in that no calibration is required: they are actual temperatures. However, they record surface temperature not the near-surface temperature (1.5 meter) used for most \"surface\" weather observations. These can differ substantially under extreme conditions or when there is surface snow. In practice the effect on borehole temperature is believed to be generally small. A second source of error is contamination of the well by groundwater may affect the temperatures, since the water \"carries\" more modern temperatures with it. This effect is believed to be generally small, and more applicable at very humid sites. It does not apply in ice cores where the site remains frozen all year.\n\nMore than 600 boreholes, on all continents, have been used as proxies for reconstructing surface temperatures. The highest concentration of boreholes exist in North America and Europe. Their depths of drilling typically range from 200 to greater than 1,000 meters into the crust of the Earth or ice sheet.\n\nA small number of boreholes have been drilled in the ice sheets; the purity of the ice there permits longer reconstructions. Central Greenland borehole temperatures show \"a warming over the last 150 years of approximately 1°C ± 0.2°C preceded by a few centuries of cool conditions. Preceding this was a warm period centered around A.D. 1000, which was warmer than the late 20th century by approximately 1°C.\" A borehole in the Antarctica icecap shows that the \"temperature at A.D. 1 [was] approximately 1°C warmer than the late 20th century\".\n\nBorehole temperatures in Greenland were responsible for an important revision to the isotopic temperature reconstruction, revealing that the former assumption that \"spatial slope equals temporal slope\" was incorrect.\n\nOcean coral skeletal rings, or bands, also share paleoclimatological information, similarly to tree rings. In 2002, a report was published on the findings of Drs. Lisa Greer and Peter Swart, associates of University of Miami at the time, in regard to stable oxygen isotopes in the calcium carbonate of coral. Cooler temperatures tend to cause coral to use heavier isotopes in its structure, while warmer temperatures result in more normal oxygen isotopes being built into the coral structure. Denser water salinity also tends to contain the heavier isotope. Greer's coral sample from the Atlantic Ocean was taken in 1994 and dated back to 1935. Greer recalls her conclusions, \"When we look at the averaged annual data from 1935 to about 1994, we see it has the shape of a sine wave. It is periodic and has a significant pattern of oxygen isotope composition that has a peak at about every twelve to fifteen years.\" Surface water temperatures have coincided by also peaking every twelve and a half years. However, since recording this temperature has only been practiced for the last fifty years, correlation between recorded water temperature and coral structure can only be drawn so far back.\n\nPollen can be found in sediments. Plants produce pollen in large quantities and it is extremely resistant to decay. It is possible to identify a plant species from its pollen grain. The identified plant community of the area at the relative time from that sediment layer, will provide information about the climatic condition. The abundance of pollen of a given vegetation period or year depends partly on the weather conditions of the previous months, hence pollen density provides information on short-term climatic conditions. The study of prehistoric pollen is palynology.\n\nDinoflagellates occur in most aquatic environments and during their life cycle, some species produce highly resistant organic-walled cysts for a dormancy period when environmental conditions are not appropriate for growth. Their living depth is relatively shallow (dependent upon light penetration), and closely coupled to diatoms on which they feed. Their distribution patterns in surface waters are closely related to physical characteristics of the water bodies, and nearshore assemblages can also be distinguished from oceanic assemblages. The distribution of dinocysts in sediments has been relatively well documented and has contributed to understanding the average sea-surface conditions that determine the distribution pattern and abundances of the taxa (). Several studies, including and have compiled box and gravity cores in the North Pacific analyzing them for palynological content to determine the distribution of dinocysts and their relationships with sea surface temperature, salinity, productivity and upwelling. Similarly, and use a box core at 576.5 m of water depth from 1992 in the central Santa Barbara Basin to determine oceanographic and climatic changes during the past 40 kyr in the area.\n\nSimilar to their study on other proxies, paleoclimatologists examine oxygen isotopes in the contents of ocean sediments. Likewise, they measure the layers of varve (deposited fine and coarse silt or clay) laminating lake sediments. Lake varves are primarily influenced by:\n\n\nDiatoms, foraminifera, radiolarians, ostracods, and Coccolithophores are examples of biotic proxies for lake and ocean conditions that are commonly used to reconstruct past climates. The distribution of the species of these and other aquatic creatures preserved in the sediments are useful proxies. The optimal conditions for species preserved in the sediment act as clues. Researchers use these clues to reveal what the climate and environment was like when the creatures died. The oxygen isotope ratios in their shells can also be used as proxies for temperature.\n\nOcean water is mostly HO, with small amounts of HDO and HO, where D denotes deuterium, i.e. hydrogen with an extra neutron. In Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water (VSMOW) the ratio of D to H is 155.76x10 and O-18 to O-16 is 2005.2x10. Isotope fractionation occurs during changes between condensed and vapour phases: the vapour pressure of heavier isotopes is lower, so vapour contains relatively more of the lighter isotopes and when the vapour condenses the precipitation preferentially contains heavier isotopes. The difference from VSMOW is expressed as δO = 1000‰ formula_1; and a similar formula for δD. δ values for precipitation are always negative. The major influence on δ is the difference between ocean temperatures where the moisture evaporated and the place where the final precipitation occurred; since ocean temperatures are relatively stable the δ value mostly reflects the temperature where precipitation occurs. Taking into account that the precipitation forms above the inversion layer, we are left with a linear relation:\n\nδ O = aT + b\n\nThis is empirically calibrated from measurements of temperature and δ as a = 0.67 ‰/°C for Greenland and 0.76 ‰/°C for East Antarctica. The calibration was initially done on the basis of \"spatial\" variations in temperature and it was assumed that this corresponded to \"temporal\" variations. More recently, borehole thermometry has shown that for glacial-interglacial variations, a = 0.33 ‰/°C, implying that glacial-interglacial temperature changes were twice as large as previously believed.\n\nA study published in 2017 called the previous methodology to reconstruct paleo ocean temperatures 100 million years ago into question, suggesting it has been relatively stable during that time, much colder.\n\nA novel climate proxy obtained from peat (lignites, ancient peat) and soils, membrane lipids known as glycerol dialkyl glycerol tetraether (GDGT) is helping to study paleo environmental factors, which control relative distribution of differently branched GDGT isomers. The study authors note, \"These branched membrane lipids are produced by an as yet unknown group of anaerobic soil bacteria.\" , there is a decade of research demonstrating that in mineral soils the degree of methylation of bacteria (brGDGTs), helps to calculate mean annual air temperatures. This proxy method was used to study the climate of the early Palaeogene, at the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary, and researchers found that annual air temperatures, over land and at mid-latitude, averaged about 23–29 °C (± 4.7 °C), which is 5–10 °C higher than most previous findings.\n\nThe skill of algorithms used to combine proxy records into an overall hemispheric temperature reconstruction may be tested using a technique known as \"pseudoproxies\". In this method, output from a climate model is sampled at locations corresponding to the known proxy network, and the temperature record produced is compared to the (known) overall temperature of the model.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7604424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7604424", "title": "Råbjerg Mile", "text": "Råbjerg Mile\n\nRåbjerg Mile is a migrating coastal dune between Skagen and Frederikshavn, Denmark. It is the largest moving dune in Northern Europe with an area of around 2 km (0.4 mi) and a height of 40 m (130 ft) above sea level. It is also the only major stretch of migrating dunes in Denmark. The dune contains a total of 4 million m of sand. The wind moves it in a north-easterly direction up to a year. The dune leaves a low, moist layer of sand behind it, trailing back westwards towards Skagerrak, where the Mile originally formed more than 300 years ago. Over 250,000 people visit the dune every year.\n\nIn northern Jutland in the 16th and 17th centuries shifting dunes were a problem for the population: huge dunes, some stretching up to 7 km (4 mi) inland, drove them back from the coastal areas, but in the 19th century the government acted to alleviate the problem. The Sand Drift Act of 1857 allowed the state to buy or expropriate areas of sand drift, and a further Act in 1857 allowed the purchase of areas adjacent to the drifts. Dune grasses and conifers were planted to stabilize the sands and these plantations became common after 1880. Although barren, the dune zone allowed limited sheep farming and some inshore fishing. By the 1950s the dune drifts were under control.\n\nAn important example of the power of the migrating sand is the Sand-Covered Church. Built in the late 14th century and dedicated to Saint Lawrence of Rome, it was almost entirely enveloped in sand by the 18th century. By 1795, the church was abandoned to the sands. The main building was demolished, leaving the tower standing, still visible above the sands.\n\nWhile the majority of dunes were stabilised by planting, the Råbjerg Mile was left to allow future generations to understand the problem of sand dune drift. The central area of the Mile was purchased by the State in 1900, and after the Conservation of Nature Act in 1917 further surrounding areas were purchased. The dune is drifting out of the government-owned area and discussion over further conservation legislation is taking place.\n\nThe area is an internationally important staging site for migrating raptors and a breeding site for the Eurasian golden plover (\"Pluvialis apricaria\") and the wood sandpiper (\"Tringa glareola\").\n"}
{"id": "2020108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2020108", "title": "Sinus Roris", "text": "Sinus Roris\n\nSinus Roris (Latin for \"Bay of Dew\") is an extension of the northern edge of Oceanus Procellarum on the Moon. The IAU-defined selenographic coordinates of this bay are 54.0° N, 56.6° W, and the diameter is 202 km.\n\nThe borders of this feature are somewhat indistinct. The bay proper is framed along the western edge by the craters Markov and Oenopides, and to the north by Babbage and South. At the eastern edge it joins the Mare Frigoris.\n\nMany selenographers have taken liberties with the dimensions of Sinus Roris. Lunar maps often indicate a much larger region for this bay than the official dimensions. These can range out as far as the craters Gerard and Repsold to the west, Harpalus to the east, and as far south as 44° N latitude, approaching Mons Rümker.\n\nThe area where the official coordinates place this bay has a generally higher albedo than the mare to the south, most likely due to deposits of ejecta from impacts to the north.\n\nEarly concepts of a moon landing promoted by Wernher von Braun envisaged the establishment of a permanent lunar base in the Sinus Roris region. These concepts lead, in much modified form, to Project Apollo.\n\nArthur C. Clarke's novel \"A Fall of Moondust\" is set in a fictional \"Sea of Thirst\" located within Sinus Roris.\n\n"}
{"id": "44516222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44516222", "title": "Stabelhøje", "text": "Stabelhøje\n\nStabelhøje or Stabel Høje (The Stacked Mounds) are two Bronze Age Mounds 135 meters and 133 meters above sea level by the village Agri in Mols Bjerge (Hills of Mols) on the peninsula Djursland in Denmark at the entrance to The Baltic Sea in Northern Europe. The burial mounds date back to the early Bronze Ages 1800 – 1000 years B.C. These hills are some of the more known view points in Mols Bjerge National Park. Other view points in the area are Agri Baunehøj, Trehøje, Ellemandsbjerg and Jernhatten.\n\nIn the early Bronze Ages tribal leaders and other important members of society where buried in mounds placed in coffins made from hollowed out oak tree trunks. According to archaeological findings the burial customs changed during the Bronze Ages from coffin burials in oak trunks to cremation in the late Danish Bronze Ages. Probably due to international influence caused by long distance trade with commodities such as copper, tin and cattle. This change in burial customs is probably also the case at Stabelhøje, that most likely hold several generations of burials from different Bronze Age time periods.\n\nFrom the top of the mounds there is a view to Kalø Castle Ruin in Egens Bay - part of Aarhus Bay, and to the coast of Jutland, with Aarhus, Denmarks second largest town, in the distance. One can also see the hilly fields of southern Djursland, and the unfarmed hills of protected central Mols, including the tallest hill in the area, Agri Baunehøj, 137 meters above sea level. There is also a view of Ebeltoft Bay, and of the southernmost peninsula on Djursland, Helgenæs. The difference in elevation is accentuated by views that go all the way down to the surface of the sea. \n\nStabelhøje is accessible via small country roads. There is an infoboard at a small parking lot by the mounds. From here there is a short walk to the top of the southernmost of the two mounds. The mounds are 5 – 6 meters tall. Each is built of up to 650.000 rectangles of turf that where cut out by hand, corresponding to 7 hectares of peeled of heath- and grass-turf per mound.\nUnder influence of rain draining through the surface of the mounds many of the Danish Bronze Age mounds have developed a hard mineral rich layer of soil close to the surface, that isolates the inner mound from contact with water and oxygen from the outside. This lid of hardened soil has helped preserve the artifacts insides the mounds over the centuries.\n\nThe construction of Bronze Age mounds such as Stabelhøje is an undertaking that involved the work of many people using primitive pre-iron-age tools. A feat that is part of the creation of the 60.000 Stone- and Bronze Age burial mounds registered in Denmark. It has been calculated that 100 - 150 mounds where built each year at the height of this endeavor in the early Danish Bronze Ages, 1800 - 500 B.C. Something that points to an organized 2500- to 3800-year-old pre Christian culture pervaded by a unified religious belief.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "275945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275945", "title": "Static VAR compensator", "text": "Static VAR compensator\n\nA static VAR compensator is a set of electrical devices for providing fast-acting reactive power on high-voltage electricity transmission networks. SVCs are part of the Flexible AC transmission system device family, regulating voltage, power factor, harmonics and stabilizing the system. A static VAR compensator has no significant moving parts (other than internal switchgear). Prior to the invention of the SVC, power factor compensation was the preserve of large rotating machines such as synchronous condensers or switched capacitor banks.\n\nThe SVC is an automated impedance matching device, designed to bring the system closer to unity power factor. SVCs are used in two main situations:\n\nIn transmission applications, the SVC is used to regulate the grid voltage. If the power system's reactive load is capacitive (leading), the SVC will use thyristor controlled reactors to consume VARs from the system, lowering the system voltage. Under inductive (lagging) conditions, the capacitor banks are automatically switched in, thus providing a higher system voltage. By connecting the thyristor-controlled reactor, which is continuously variable, along with a capacitor bank step, the net result is continuously variable leading or lagging power.\n\nIn industrial applications, SVCs are typically placed near high and rapidly varying loads, such as arc furnaces, where they can smooth flicker voltage.\n\nTypically, an SVC comprises one or more banks of fixed or switched shunt capacitors or reactors, of which at least one bank is switched by thyristors. Elements which may be used to make an SVC typically include:\n\nBy means of phase angle modulation switched by the thyristors, the reactor may be variably switched into the circuit and so provide a continuously variable VAR injection (or absorption) to the electrical network. In this configuration, coarse voltage control is provided by the capacitors; the thyristor-controlled reactor is to provide smooth control. Smoother control and more flexibility can be provided with thyristor-controlled capacitor switching.\n\nThe thyristors are electronically controlled. Thyristors, like all semiconductors, generate heat and deionized water is commonly used to cool them. Chopping reactive load into the circuit in this manner injects undesirable odd-order harmonics and so banks of high-power filters are usually provided to smooth the waveform. Since the filters themselves are capacitive, they also export MVARs to the power system.\n\nMore complex arrangements are practical where precise voltage regulation is required. Voltage regulation is provided by means of a closed-loop controller. Remote supervisory control and manual adjustment of the voltage set-point are also common.\n\nGenerally, static VAR compensation is not done at line voltage; a bank of transformers steps the transmission voltage (for example, 230 kV) down to a much lower level (for example, 9.0 kV). This reduces the size and number of components needed in the SVC, although the conductors must be very large to handle the high currents associated with the lower voltage. In some static VAR compensators for industrial applications such as electric arc furnaces, where there may be an existing medium-voltage busbar present (for example at 33 kV or 34.5 kV), the static VAR compensator may be directly connected in order to save the cost of the transformer.\n\nAnother common connection point for SVC is on the delta tertiary winding of Y-connected auto-transformers used to connect one transmission voltage to another voltage.\n\nThe dynamic nature of the SVC lies in the use of thyristors connected in series and inverse-parallel, forming \"thyristor valves\"). The disc-shaped semiconductors, usually several inches in diameter, are usually located indoors in a \"valve house\".\n\nThe main advantage of SVCs over simple mechanically switched compensation schemes is their near-instantaneous response to changes in the system voltage. For this reason they are often operated at close to their zero-point in order to maximize the reactive power correction they can rapidly provide when required.\n\nThey are, in general, cheaper, higher-capacity, faster and more reliable than dynamic compensation schemes such as synchronous condensers. However, static VAR compensators are more expensive than mechanically switched capacitors, so many system operators use a combination of the two technologies (sometimes in the same installation), using the static VAR compensator to provide support for fast changes and the mechanically switched capacitors to provide steady-state VARs.\n\nSimilar devices include the static synchronous compensator (STATCOM) and Unified Power Flow Controller (UPFC).\n"}
{"id": "6866802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6866802", "title": "Table of stars with Bayer designations", "text": "Table of stars with Bayer designations\n\nThis table lists those stars or other objects which have Bayer designations by the constellation in which those stars or objects lie. The name given is that of the article if it does not reflect the Bayer designation (e.g. Aldebaran instead of \"Alpha Tauri\"). Abbreviations are used in other cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "2680899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2680899", "title": "The New Dinosaurs", "text": "The New Dinosaurs\n\nThe New Dinosaurs: An Alternative Evolution is a 1988 speculative evolution book written by Scottish geologist Dougal Dixon and illustrated by several illustrators including Amanda Barlow, Peter Barrett, John Butler, Jeane Colville, Anthony Duke, Andy Farmer, Lee Gibbons, Steve Holden, Philip Hood, Martin Knowelden, Sean Milne, Denys Ovenden and Joyce Tuhill. The book also features a foreword by Desmond Morris. \"The New Dinosaurs\" explores a hypothetical alternate Earth, complete with animals and ecosystems, where the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event never occurred, leaving non-avian dinosaurs and other Mesozoic animals an additional 65 million years to evolve and adapt over the course of the Cenozoic to the present day. \n\n\"The New Dinosaurs\" is Dixon's second work on speculative evolution, following \"After Man\" (1981), which explored the animals of a hypothetical world 50 million years in the future where humanity had gone extinct. \"After Man\" used a fictional setting and hypothetical animals to explain the natural processes behind evolution whilst \"The New Dinosaurs\" uses its own fictional setting and hypothetical wildlife to explain the concept of zoogeography and biogeographic realms. It was followed by another speculative evolution work by Dixon in 1990, \"Man After Man\", which focused on a hypothetical future path of evolution of humanity.\n\nSome of Dougal Dixon's hypothetical dinosaurs bear a coincidental resemblance to dinosaurs that were eventually discovered. As a general example, many of Dixon's fictional dinosaurs are depicted with feathers, something that was not yet widely accepted when the book was written.\n\n\"The New Dinosaurs\" explores Earth and its fauna in the present day (contrary to Dixon's other speculative evolution books \"After Man\" and \"Man After Man\", both set in the future) as it would have been if the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event never occurred. Over the course of the Tertiary period and since the last Ice Age, several specialized descendants of various Mesozoic groups, in particular the dinosaurs, pterosaurs and plesiosaurs, have evolved. Dixon explores these new animals through biogeographic realms, divisions of the Earth's land surface based on distributional patterns of animals and other lifeforms.\n\nThe forests of the Ethiopian realm (Sub-Saharan Africa and Arabia) are home to several \"abrosaurs\", a group of small tree-climbing coelurosaurian theropods, including a wasp-eating variety. In the savanna, huge striding and terrestrial pterosaurs such as the giraffe-like \"lank\" are present whilst the deserts are home to coelurosaurs adapted to a lifestyle of effectively \"swimming\" through the sand and hunting small arthropods. On the island of Madagascar, some dinosaurs are highly similar to Mesozoic ones, such as titanosaurs and modern representatives of the genus \"Megalosaurus\".\n\nIn the temperate climates of the Palearctic realm (Eurasia with the exception of Arabia, South-East Asia and India) there are small and colonial pachycephalosaurs and the \"bricket\", a fuzzy hadrosaur whose brightly colored tail can act as a warning signal. Predators include the \"jinx\", a dromaeosaurid adapted to mimic larger herbivorous dinosaurs through scent and appearance. In the deserts of the south, large ankylosaurs such as the \"taranter\" have adapted their ancestral armor to also function as a means to conserve moisture. In the far north, large migratory birds such as the \"tromble\" with legs almost like tree trunks, roam the land.\n\nIn the Nearctic realm (North America), most herbivores are members of the family Sprintosauridae, referred to as \"sprintosaurs\", descendants of the Mesozoic hadrosaurs adapted to a new lifestyle on the grass-covered plains. Also present on the plains are predatory dromaeosaurids and the \"monocorn\", a large and slow-moving ceratopsid. The mixed woodlands and wetlands are home to bipedal and fishing pterosaurs superficially similar to herons and the \"springe\", a large-brained descendant of \"Stenonychosaurus\" that has adapted an ambush-hunting strategy where it mimics being dead to attract scavengers that it can kill and eat.\n\nThe tropical rainforests of the Neotropical realm (South America and southern North America) are home to amphibious hypsilophodonts as well as highly specialized abrosaurs such as a pangolin-like form and a variety that feeds on nectar. Sauropods descended from the titanosaurs are present on the pampas grasslands, such as the heavily armored \"turtosaur\" and the trunked \"lumber\". The apex predator of the pampas, the \"cutlasstooth\", has evolved huge, cutting teeth to allow it to prey upon the large sauropods. The pampas is also home to the last of the tyrannosaurids, the large scavenging \"gourmand\".\n\nThe smallest biogeographic realm, the Oriental realm (South-East Asia and India) contains diverse environments and animals, such as the great \"rajaphants\" of the plains, massive sauropods living in herds, and bamboo-eating hypsilophodonts. In the swamps, there are aquatic hypsilophodonts that have evolved convergently with the amphibious hypsilophodonts of the Neotropical realm and pterosaurs using their wings as traps to lure in fish.\n\nThe Australasian realm (Oceania) is the most isolated and self-contained. In the scrub and tall grass savanna there are flamingo-like coelurosaurs and iguanodonts capable of jumping like kangaroos. There are also tree-living and herbivorous hypsilophodonts, superficially similar to the abrosaurs of the rest of the world, and terrestrial, fruit-eating pterosaurs that have completely lost their wings. The tropical islands surrounding Australia are home to the \"coconut grab\", an ammonite capable of spending more time on land than its ancestors and feeding on coconuts, which it sometimes climbs trees to get to.\n\nThe world's oceans are home to various pterosaurs, such as seagull-like and penguin-like forms. There is also the \"whulk\", a massive whale-like pliosaur that feeds exclusively on plankton. The \"kraken\", an enormous ammonite, uses specialized tentacles to entangle and sting anything that comes near it. \n\nFollowing the success of his previous speculative evolution book \"After Man\" in 1981, Dixon realized that there was a market for popular-level books which use fictional examples and settings to explain actual factual scientific processes. \"After Man\" had explained the process of evolution by creating a complex hypothetical future ecosystem, \"The New Dinosaurs\" was instead aimed at creating a book on zoogeography, a subject the general public was quite unfamiliar with, by using a fictional world in which the non-avian dinosaurs had not gone extinct to explain the process.\n\nThe dinosaurs and other animals in \"The New Dinosaurs\" were heavily influenced by the paleontology of its time. The ideas of the Dinosaur Renaissance - replacing the older ideas of dinosaurs as dumb and slow creatures with active, agile and bird-like animals are heavily used in the book. Dixon extrapolated on the ideas of paleontologists such as Robert Bakker and Greg Paul when creating his creatures and also used patterns seen in the actual evolutionary history of the dinosaurs and pushing them to an extreme, such as with the creation of the \"gourmand\", an armless and massive scavenger descended from the tyrannosaurids.\n\nMany of the hypothetical animals created for \"The New Dinosaurs\" ended up resembling actual Mesozoic creatures that have since been discovered. Many of the hypothetical dinosaurs featured in the book are covered in fuzzy integument, which in modern times have been discovered in dinosaurs of most groups. The tree-climbing abrosaurs are similar to actual tree-climbing small theropods such as \"Microraptor\" (described in 2000) and the large terrestrial pterosaurs, such as the \"lank\", resemble some animals in the actual pterosaur group Azhdarchidae.\n"}
{"id": "44298224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44298224", "title": "Trehøje Mols", "text": "Trehøje Mols\n\nTrehøje is a Danish vista point with a view of the sea to the east, south and west, located in the Mols Bjerge National Park on the peninsula Djursland between Denmark and Sweden. Three large bronze-age barrows close to each other 127 meters above the sea, have given their name to the place, which contains a group of 22 barrows. \"Trehøje\" meaning three mounds, is one of four major vista points in the hills of Mols, each with a barrow on top. The others are Ellemandsbjerg, Stabelhøje and Agri Baunehøj.\n\nThe view from Trehøje includes the east coast of mainland Jutland, the islands Samsø, Tunø and Hjelm, plus the hilly Mols Bjerge landscape, including the peninsula Helgenæs. One can also see parts of southern Djursland and the towns of Aarhus and Ebeltoft in the distance. From the three barrows one can look down onto the bays of Knebel, Begtrup, Aarhus, and Ebeltoft, as well as the southern stretches of the Kattegat, the sea between Denmark and Sweden.\n\nThe three barrows are five to six meters high, each made of about 650,000 pieces of dug-out grass turf. This is equivalent to 7 hectares of land where the turf has been peeled off for each barrow. A labor-intensive undertaking, that was part of the erection of 60,000 bronze-age mounds registered in Denmark. It has been calculated that in Denmark 100 to 150 mounds were built per year in the early Bronze Age (1800–1000 BC). This effort points towards a strong, homogenous and organized religious quest in a distant pre-Christian civilization.\n\nThe vegetation in the open land surrounding Trehøje predominantly consists of bent grass. A slender type of grass that forms a wavy red and violet surface in July and August, and stands out as a golden surface in the winter sun, dotted with darker mulberry bushes. Here and there one might be able to make out the remains of narrow 8–15-meters-wide curved fields from the Middle Ages. These fields emerged when the farmers predominantly plowed the furrows towards the center of the field. Maybe with the purpose of creating a contour that drains standing water to the sides of the fields.\nToday focused landscaping underlies the formation of the open plain-like grassland surrounding Trehøje, as well as other parts of the protected Mols Bjerge Hills. Tree growth, which would otherwise take over the land, is kept down partly through grazing by sheep, goats, cattle and horses, and partly through felling of upcoming trees, as well as felling of established wooded areas.\n\nA nutrient-poor common-like landscape is a landscaping goal for the area. This type of landscape occurred naturally in the Middle Ages, probably due to intensive grazing and repeated haymaking on the commons, combined with not bringing back the same amount of nutrients in the form of manure, as was taken away, according to a theory. In some descriptions of the formation of the depleted vegetation around Trehøje there is no mention of the wind-erosion factor, which can blow away fertile topsoil nutrients – even though this has been a determining depletion-factor for surrounding land on Djursland in the Middle Ages.\nOne of the ideas behind favoring a common-like landscape is to make the Hills of Mols resemble the woodless tundra-plains left over, when the ice sheets drew back from the land after the last ice age plus 10,000 years ago, before Denmark became covered with forest. An other purpose behind this landscaping goal is to create habitats for zoology, not least insects, that are rare in other parts of Denmark. In addition the wood-free open countryside is visitor friendly, giving opportunities for walks and biking on the paths and gravel roads surrounding Trehøje, as well as in the rest of hilly Mols Bjerge.\n\n\n\n\nNational parks of Denmark\n"}
{"id": "30971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30971", "title": "Tunnel in the Sky", "text": "Tunnel in the Sky\n\nTunnel in the Sky is a juvenile science fiction novel by American writer Robert A. Heinlein, published in 1955 by Scribner's as one of the Heinlein juveniles. The story describes a group of students sent on a survival test to an uninhabited planet, who soon realise they are stranded there. The themes of the work include the difficulties of growing up and the nature of man as a social animal.\n\nThe novel is set in the future, when Malthusian overpopulation on Earth has been averted by the invention of teleportation, called the \"Ramsbotham jump\", which is used to send Earth's excess population to colonize other planets. However, the costs of operating the device mean that the colonies are isolated from Earth until they can produce something to justify two-way trade. Because modern technology requires a supporting infrastructure, the colonists employ technology from the frontier era — horses instead of tractors.\n\nRod Walker is a high school student who dreams of becoming a professional colonist. The final test of his Advanced Survival class is to stay alive on an unfamiliar planet for between two and ten days. Students may team up and equip themselves with whatever gear they can carry, but are otherwise completely on their own. They are told only that the challenges are neither insurmountable nor unreasonable. On test day, each student walks through the Ramsbotham portal and finds him or herself alone on a strange planet, though reasonably close to the pickup point. Rod, acting on his older sister's advice, takes hunting knives and basic survival gear rather than high-tech weaponry, on the grounds that the latter could make him over-confident. The last advice the students receive is to \"watch out for stobor.\"\n\nOn the second day, Rod is ambushed and knocked unconscious by a thief. When he wakes up, all he has left is a spare knife hidden under a bandage. In his desperate concentration on survival, he loses track of time. Eventually he teams up with Jacqueline \"Jack\" Daudet, a student from another class whom he initially mistakes for a male. When she tells him that more than ten days have elapsed without contact, he realizes that something has gone wrong with the portal that was supposed to recover them, and they are stranded.\n\nThey start recruiting others to build a settlement for long term survival and Rod becomes the \"de facto\" leader of a community that eventually grows to around 75 people. Disagreements reveal the need to elect a government for the new town. Rod has no taste for politics or administration, and is happy to have Grant Cowper, an older college student and born politician, elected mayor. Grant proves to be much better at talking than getting things done. Despite disagreeing with many of Grant's policies, Rod supports him. Grant ignores Rod's warning that they are living in a dangerously hard-to-defend location and that they should move to a cave system he has found. When a species previously thought harmless suddenly changes its behavior and stampedes through their camp, the settlement is devastated and Grant is killed. Rod is put back in charge.\n\nHeinlein tracks the social development of this frontier community of educated Westerners deprived of technology, followed by its abrupt dissolution when contact with Earth is reestablished. After nearly two years of isolation, the culture shock experienced by the survivors highlights for them and the reader the pain and uncertainty of becoming an adult, by reversing the process abruptly—Each of the students goes from being a self-responsible member of an autonomous community back to being regarded as a youth.\n\nAll of the students go back to Earth willingly except for Rod, who has great difficulty reverting from the status of head of a small, but sovereign state to a teenager casually brushed aside by the adult rescuers. However, his teacher (and now brother-in-law) and his sister persuade him to change his mind. His teacher also informs Rod that his warning against \"stobor\" (\"robots\" spelled backwards) was just a way of personalizing the dangers of an unknown planet - to instill fear and caution in the students, as every student receives the same warning no matter which planet he or she is sent to for the final exam.\n\nYears later, Rod is briefly depicted accomplishing his heart's desire; the novel's ending finds him preparing to lead a formal colonization party to another planet.\n\nAs in \"Lord of the Flies\", which had been published a year earlier, isolation reveals the true natures of the students as individuals, but it also demonstrates some of the constants of human existence as a social animal. Its underlying themes run counter to those in \"Lord of the Flies\", however, in that it shows a belief in the inherent strength of humans as proto-adults who can self-organize rather than descend into barbarism. Some of the students fall victim to their own foolishness, and others turn out to be thugs, but that is a part of human nature, just as the counter-trends take the group as a whole towards the beginnings of a stable society. The numerous political crises of the fledgling colony illustrate the need for legitimacy in a government appropriate for the society it administers, another common theme in Heinlein's books. In both its romanticization of the pioneer and its glorification of \"Homo sapiens\" as the toughest player in the Darwinian game, it presages themes developed further in books like \"Time Enough for Love\" and \"Starship Troopers\". Unusual for science fiction at the time, but quite typical of Heinlein's works, the novel portrays several competent and intelligent female characters.\n\nHeinlein Society member and researcher Robert James has noted that Heinlein wrote a letter in which he \"firmly states\" that Rod Walker is black. According to James, \"The most telling evidence is that everybody in 'Tunnel' expects Rod to end up with Caroline, who is explicitly described as black.\" In recognition of this, the cover illustration of a Full Cast Audio version of the work was revised to \"show Rod with his correct ethnicity.\"\n\nRod is at one point referred to by character Jock McGowan as a \"cholo\", a derogatory term for someone of Latin American ancestry.\n\nIn the early chapters of the book, it is disclosed that at some time prior to the invention of teleportation, China conquered and colonized Australia, survivors of the original population (evidently here referring to both White Australians and Aborigines) being relocated to New Zealand. It is mentioned that the Chinese managed a giant irrigation project making the central desert of Australia into a flourishing garden - and a generation later it became an overcrowded slum. In the present of the novel, poor Chinese peasants are forcibly relocated to marginal planets which nobody else wants.\n\n"}
{"id": "12134611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12134611", "title": "Vienna Conference (1985)", "text": "Vienna Conference (1985)\n\nThe Vienna Conference was the first international conference on ozone layer depletion. It was held in Vienna, Austria in 1985 when a hole in the stratospheric ozone layer was observed in the South Pole marked by increased UV-B infiltration over Antarctica. A 'hole', marked by significant drop in ozone molecules in the layer, as large as that of United States was discovered by a British team. The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer was agreed at the conference and it entered into force in 1987.\n\n"}
