{"id": "42157192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42157192", "title": "2014 EC", "text": "2014 EC\n\n2014 EC is a 10-meter sized, eccentric asteroid, classified as near-Earth object of the Apollo group that passed within of Earth in early March 2014. This was six times closer to the Earth than the Moon. It was first observed on 5 March 2014, by the Catalina Sky Survey at Mount Lemmon Observatory in Arizona, United States. As of 2017, it has not since been observed.\n\n has only been observed on two nights for a period of less than 48 hours, with a remaining orbital uncertainty of 4 and 6 respectively. It orbits the Sun at a distance of 0.7–2.2 AU once every 21 months (644 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.53 and an inclination of 1° with respect to the ecliptic.\n\nThe asteroid has an Earth minimum orbital intersection distance of which translates into less than 0.2 lunar distances.\n\nBased on a generic magnitude-to diameter conversion, measures 7 meters in diameter, for a measured absolute magnitude of 28.2 and an assumed albedo of 0.2, which is typical value for stony S-type asteroids. Other sources estimated the body to be approximately 10 meters or 30 feet across. It is too small for being a potentially hazardous asteroid, which require an absolute magnitude of 22.0 or less.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35029096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35029096", "title": "Ajidaar-Unkyur", "text": "Ajidaar-Unkyur\n\nAjidaar-Unkyur is a geological protected area (karst cave) located at slopes of Teo-Muyun Mountains in Osh Region of Kyrgyzstan. Its total length is about 100 m. The cave is inhabited by a large bat colony (Lesser Mouse-Eared Bat and Greater Horseshoe Bat).\n"}
{"id": "53564323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53564323", "title": "Bioclogging", "text": "Bioclogging\n\nBioclogging or biological clogging is clogging of pore space in soil by microbial biomass; their body and their byproducts such as extracellular polymeric substance (EPS). The microbial biomass blocks the pathway of water in the pore space, forming a certain thickness of impermeable layer in soil, and it reduces the rate of infiltration of water remarkably.\n\nBioclogging is observed under continuous ponded infiltration at various field conditions such as artificial recharge ponds, percolation trench, irrigation channel, sewage treatment system and landfill liner. It also affects groundwater flow in aquifer, such as permeable reactive barrier and microbial enhanced oil recovery. In the situation where infiltration of water at appropriate rate is needed, bioclogging can be problematic and countermeasures such as regular drying of the system are taken. In some cases bioclogging can be utilized to make impermeable layer to minimize the rate of infiltration.\n\nBioclogging is observed as the decrease of the infiltration rate. Decrease in the infiltration rate under ponded infiltration was observed in 1940s for studying the infiltration of artificial recharge pond and the water-spreading on agricultural soils. When soils are continuously submerged, permeability or saturated hydraulic conductivity changes in 3 stages which was explained as follows.\n\nThe 3 stages are not necessarily distinct in every field condition of bioclogging; when the second stage is not clear, permeability just continues to decrease.\n\nThe change in permeability with time is observed in various field situations. Depending on the field condition, there are various causes for the change in the hydraulic conductivity, summarized as follows.\n\n\nBioclogging is observed under continuous ponded infiltration in such places as artificial recharge ponds and percolation trench. Reduction of infiltration rate due to bioclogging at the infiltrating surface reduces the efficiency of such systems. To minimize the bioclogging effects, pretreatment of the water to reduce suspended solids, nutrients, and organic carbon might be necessary. Regular drying of the system and physical removal of the clogging layer can also be effective countermeasures. Even operated cautiously in this way, bioclogging is still likely to occur because of microbiological growth at the infiltrating surface.\n\nSeptic drain fields are also susceptible to bioclogging because nutrient rich wastewater flows continuously. The bioclogging material in the septic tank is sometimes called biomat. Pretreatment of water by filtration or reducing the load of the system could delay the failure of the system by bioclogging. Slow sand filter system also suffers from bioclogging. Besides the countermeasures mentioned above, cleaning or backwashing sand may be operated to remove biofilm and recover the permeability of sand.\n\nBioclogging in rivers can impact aquifer recharge especially in dry regions where losing rivers are common.\n\nBioclogging can have a positive effect in certain cases. For example, in the dairy waste stabilization ponds used for the treatment of dairy farm wastewater, bioclogging effectively seals up the bottom of the pond. Algae and bacteria may be inoculated to promote bioclogging in irrigation channel for seepage control.\n\nBioclogging is also beneficial in landfill liner such as compacted clay liners. Clay liners are usually applied in landfill to minimize the pollution by landfill leachate to the surrounding soil environment. Hydraulic conductivity of clay liners become lower than the original value because of bioclogging caused by microorganism in the leachate and pore spaces in clay. Bioclogging is now being studied to be applied for geotechnical engineering.\n\nBioclogging can be observed when water is withdrawn from aquifer (below groundwater table) through a water well. Over months and years of continued operation of water wells, they may show a gradual reduction in performance due to bioclogging or other clogging mechanisms.\n\nBiofilm formation is useful in bioremediation of biologically degradable groundwater pollution. Permeable reactive barrier is formed to contain the groundwater flow by bioclogging and also to degrade pollution by microbes. Contaminant flow should be carefully analyzed because preferential flow path in the barrier may reduce the efficiency of the remediation.\n\nIn extraction of petroleum, a technique of enhanced oil recovery is implemented to increase the amount of oil to be extracted from an oil field. The injected water displaces the oil in the reservoir which is transported to recovery wells. As the reservoir is not uniform in permeability, injected water tends to go through high permeable zone, and does not go through the zone where oil remains. In this situation, bacterial profile modification technique, which injects bacteria into the high permeable zone to promote bioclogging can be employed. It is a type of microbial enhanced oil recovery.\n\n"}
{"id": "41639184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41639184", "title": "Cat Sense", "text": "Cat Sense\n\nCat Sense is a 2013 Documentary book written by John Bradshaw. It was published on August 15, 2013, and was chosen by the New York Times as one of its best-sellers in 2013.\nIt was also publicly well received and praised for its humorist approach to its subject: cat psychology.\nMajor newspapers and radios gave good reviews. NPR, for example, included it as an NPR Staff Pick on their \"Guide to 2013's Great Reads.\"\n"}
{"id": "44014462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44014462", "title": "Charles John Cornish", "text": "Charles John Cornish\n\nCharles John Cornish (28 September 1858 – 30 January 1906) was an English naturalist and author.\n\nBorn on 28 September 1858 at Salcombe House, near Sidmouth, the residence of his grandfather, Charles John Cornish, J.P., D.L., was eldest son of Charles John Cornish, then curate of Sidbury, Devon, by his first wife, Anne Charlotte Western (died 1887). He was brought up at Debenham, Suffolk, where his father became vicar in 1859. In 1872 he entered Charterhouse School as a gownboy, and left in 1876. After time as a private tutor, he entered Hertford College, Oxford, as a commoner in 1881, was elected Brunsell exhibitioner in 1882 and Lusby scholar in 1883. In the same year he obtained a blue in association football, a second class in classical moderations in 1883, and a second class in \"literae humaniores\" in 1885. \n\nIn 1885, Cornish was appointed assistant classical master at St Paul's School, London, a position he held for the rest of his life. Soon after coming to London he began to write articles on natural history and country life, and in 1890 became a regular contributor to \"The Spectator\", and later to \"Country Life\". \n\nCornish died at Worthing on 30 January 1906, the cause originating in a shooting accident many years before. After cremation his ashes were interred at Salcombe Regis, near Sidmouth, and a mural tablet to his memory was placed in the parish church.\n\nMany of Cornish's articles re-appeared in book form. He wrote:\n\n\nHe collaborated with others in \"Living Animals of the World\" (2 vols. 1901-2). \"Animal Artisans and other Studies of Birds and Beasts\", with a memoir by his widow, was published in 1907.\n\nCornish married in 1893 Edith, eldest daughter of John Isaac Thornycroft, by whom he had one daughter.\n"}
{"id": "57821203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57821203", "title": "Christos Kakkalos", "text": "Christos Kakkalos\n\nChristos Kakkalos (; Litochoro, 13 July 1882 – 12 April 1976) was a Greek mountain guide. He led the 1913 expedition of the Swiss Daniel Baud-Bovy and Frédéric Boissonnas and is considered the first climber to have ascended Mytikas, the highest peak of Mount Olympus (2918.80 m) in Greece.\n\nAfter three years of schooling he helped his family with work and hunting. The family Kakkalos owned a hut called Paliokalyva (Greek Παλαιοκάλυβα, old hut) on the east side of Mount Olympus. They worked as lumberjacks and transported the wood to the water-driven sawmills in Prionia. As a child, Kakkalos became acquainted with the mountains and hunted up to the summit region the Balkan chamois.\n\nIn the summer of 1913, he set out with the Swiss Baud-Bovy and Boissonnas to an expedition to the peaks of Mount Olympus and on 2 August 1913, the group succeeded in the first ascent of Mytikas. Further ascents were made in July 1919, 1921, and in September 1927 with 105 participants. In 1921 he led the Swiss topographer Marcel Kurz, who is considered the first-time climber of the Olympus summit Stefani (2909 m), and the Swiss engineer Fritz Kuhn. In 1931, he again led Daniel Baud-Bovy with a group of climbers.\n\nUntil 1932 he spent the nights with the groups he guided in Paliokalyva. In 1930, the foundation stone was laid for the first mountain hut of Mount Olympus, the \"Spilios Agapitos\" hut. In 1937 he was appointed by the Greek Mountaineering Association as the official guide for the mountain. He led climbers, geologists, botanists, ambassadors, politicians, artists and tourists. The last time he reached the summit was in 1973, when he was 91 years old.\n\nChristos Kakkalos died on 12 April 1976.\n\nIn 1984, a mountain hut on the plateau of the Muses (2680 m) was named after him.\n\nOn 28 July 1913, the Swiss Daniel Baud-Bovy and Frédéric Boissonnas reached the place Litochoro (about 400 m). They hired the lumberjacks Christos Kakkalos and Nikos Bistikos to lead them to the summit of Mount Olympus. The next day they started the ascent. At noon they reached the monastery of Agios Dionysios (820 m), went from there to Petrostrouga (1940 m) and stayed there overnight. On 30 July, they reached the Muses Plateau (about 2600 m) and climbed the peaks of Profitis Elias and Toumba. With the peaks of Mytikas and Stefani in mind, they decided to descend again and stayed in a log cabin (probably in the Paliokaliva) near today's mountain hut Spilios Agapitos (2040 m). On 31 July, they wanted to cancel their project and started their way back to Litochoro. During the descent, they changed their mind and stayed in Prionia (1100 m). On 1 August, they climbed back up to the lumberjack hut.\n\nOn the morning of 2 August 1913, the two Swiss, their guides and two shepherds, who were hired to carry the heavy photographic equipment, left the lumberjack hut for the summit region. It was raining, it was cold and foggy. On the way the two shepherds and the leader Nikos Bistikos stayed behind.\n\nWhen the trio had climbed the supposed summit, they realized they had made a mistake when they saw the Mytikas above them. Kakkalos took the photo equipment and began the final ascent. A short time later, they climbed at 10.25 clock the summit of Mount Olympus. \n\n"}
{"id": "33405478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33405478", "title": "Church of Saint Menas of Samatya", "text": "Church of Saint Menas of Samatya\n\nSaint Menas (, pr. \"Ágios Minás\"; ) is a Greek Orthodox Church in Istanbul.\n\nThe edifice was built in 1833 near an early Christian Martyrion of the fourth or fifth century, possibly dedicated to the saints Carpus and Papylus (Greek: Μονὴ τῶν ἁγίων Κάρπου καὶ Παπὺλου, \"Monì ton Agíon Kárpou kai Papýlou\" ), and on the site of an ancient church dedicated to Hagios Polykarpos.\nThe modern church has the same dedication as a nearby water source (, ).\n\nThe church is located in Istanbul, in the district of Fatih, in the neighbourhood of Kocamustafapaşa (historically Samatya), on \"Bestekar Hakkı Sokak\". It lies inside the walled city, in an elevated position a short distance from the shore of the Sea of Marmara. The building is protected by a high wall.\nThe Martyrion is located under the church, on \"İmrahor İlyasbey Caddesi\", and currently houses an iron workshop and a car wash shop. It is in a dilapidated state. Opposite to the Martyrion there is a spring also dedicated to Saint Menas.\n\nAccording to the Fathers of the Church, in the fourth century Empress Helena, mother of Constantine I, authorized construction of a martyrion and a monastery dedicated to the Saints Karpos and Papylos at the foot of the steep southwestern face of the Xeropholos (part of the seventh hill of Constantinople and at that time, before the construction of the Theodosian Wall, still outside the walls of the city). Karpos and Papylos had been martyred together with the Saints Agathodorus and Agathonice in Pergamon under Decius in 251. The edifice was said to have the same plan as the one erected on the sepulcher of Christ in Jerusalem, and to be adorned with marble. Although the Helena's involvement is far from certain, and her endowment can be surely excluded, the presence of several martyria in the area is attested. Moreover, the extant round structure under the modern church stems from the fourth or fifth century and has the typical form of a martyrion. A nunnery was built here at a later date during the Byzantine Age, but at any case before the tenth century. Indeed, at that time and at least until the twelfth century there are attestations to the existence of a female monastery dedicated to the Saints Karpos and Papylos in the vicinity of the \"Helenianai\" Palace.\n\nAfter the Ottoman Conquest of Constantinople in 1453, the complex remained under Greek control.\nThe are references in 1604 to the existence of a domed church dedicated to Saint Polykarpos, and of an Ayazma dedicated to Saint Menas. This church was destroyed in the great fire of Samatya of 1782, and rebuilt in 1833 by architect \"Konstantis Yolasığmazis\", with money collected through an offertory of the local Mahalle assembly with the consent of Sultan Mahmud II (r. 1808–1839). The new church was dedicated to Saint Menas, like the near Ayazma. In 1878/9 four ancient tombs were found under the church. The building was damaged during the Istanbul Pogrom of 6 September 1955, but since then it has been restored. It is still officiated and can be visited.\n\nThe present church is a rectangular building with a basilica plan, with length of approximately , width of , and height of . It is oriented in east to west direction, and has a side entrance and a bell tower. The interior is divided into three naves. The pictures on the upper section of its iconostasis contain images with episodes of the life of Jesus Christ; those on the lower section, several Saints, Jesus Christ, and the Virgin Mary. On the faces of the ambon, Christ with the Evangelists are painted. The Naos is adorned with images of Christ Pantocrator. Nothing remains of the ancient Byzantine church.\n\nThe Martyrion, which lies under the church and behind a gas station, currently houses two shops, an iron workshop and a car wash shop. It can be accessed through a modern opening obtained by enlarging an ancient window. The original structure was a rotunda with an inner circle of columns supporting a dome. The central chamber is a room covered by a lowered dome constructed of brickwork with a height of and a diameter of .\nThis room is partially encompassed by a deambulatorium wide and high, which has a horseshoe shape. The room gives access towards the east to a rectangular bema. This has at its right the remains of a spiral stairs, possibly used in the past to reach the upper church, and at its left a cell with an apse. The Hagiasma still exists and lies opposite to the Martyrion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4154187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4154187", "title": "Cosmogenic nuclide", "text": "Cosmogenic nuclide\n\nCosmogenic nuclides (or cosmogenic isotopes) are rare nuclides (isotopes) created when a high-energy cosmic ray interacts with the nucleus of an \"in situ\" Solar System atom, causing nucleons (protons and neutrons) to be expelled from the atom (see cosmic ray spallation). These isotopes are produced within Earth materials such as rocks or soil, in Earth's atmosphere, and in extraterrestrial items such as meteorites. By measuring cosmogenic isotopes, scientists are able to gain insight into a range of geological and astronomical processes. There are both radioactive and stable cosmogenic isotopes. Some of these radioisotopes are tritium, carbon-14 and phosphorus-32.\n\nCertain light (low atomic number) primordial nuclides (some isotopes of lithium, beryllium and boron) are thought to have arisen not only during the Big Bang, and also (and perhaps primarily) to have been made after the Big Bang, but before the condensation of the Solar System, by the process of cosmic ray spallation on interstellar gas and dust. This explains their higher abundance in cosmic rays as compared with their ratios and abundances of certain other nuclides on Earth. This also explains the overabundance of the early transition metals just before iron in the periodic table; the cosmic-ray spallation of iron thus produces scandium through chromium on one hand and helium through boron on the other. However, the arbitrary defining qualification for cosmogenic nuclides of being formed \"in situ in the Solar System\" (meaning inside an already-aggregated piece of the Solar System) prevents primordial nuclides formed by cosmic ray spallation \"before\" the formation of the Solar System, from being termed \"cosmogenic nuclides\"— even though the mechanism for their formation is exactly the same. These same nuclides still arrive on Earth in small amounts in cosmic rays, and are formed in meteoroids, in the atmosphere, on Earth, \"cosmogenically.\" However, beryllium (all of it stable beryllium-9) is present primordially in the Solar System in much larger amounts, having existed prior to the condensation of the Solar System, and thus present in the materials from which the Solar System formed.\n\nTo make the distinction in another fashion, the \"timing\" of their formation determines which subset of cosmic ray spallation-produced nuclides are termed primordial or cosmogenic (a nuclide cannot belong to both classes). By convention, certain stable nuclides of lithium, beryllium, and boron are thought to have been produced by cosmic ray spallation in the period of time \"between\" the Big Bang and the Solar System's formation (thus making these primordial nuclides, by definition) are not termed \"cosmogenic,\" even though they were formed by the same process as the cosmogenic nuclides (although at an earlier time). The primordial nuclide beryllium-9, the only stable beryllium isotope, is an example of this type of nuclide.\n\nIn contrast, even though the radioactive isotopes beryllium-7 and beryllium-10 fall into this series of three light elements (lithium, beryllium, boron) formed mostly by cosmic ray spallation nucleosynthesis, both of these nuclides have half lives too short for them to have been formed before the formation of the Solar System, and thus they cannot be primordial nuclides. Since the cosmic ray spallation route is the only possible source of beryllium-7 and beryllium-10 occurrence naturally in the environment, they are therefore cosmogenic.\n\nHere is a list of radioisotopes formed by the action of cosmic rays; the list also contains the production mode of the isotope. Most cosmogenic nuclides are formed in the atmosphere, but some are formed in situ in soil and rock exposed to cosmic rays, notably calcium-41 in the table below.\n"}
{"id": "39743540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39743540", "title": "Diplomatic history of World War II", "text": "Diplomatic history of World War II\n\nThe Diplomatic history of World War II includes the major foreign policies and interactions inside the opposing coalitions, the Allies and the Axis powers. The military history of the war is covered at World War II. The prewar diplomacy is covered in Causes of World War II and International relations (1919–1939).\n\nBritain, the United States, the Soviet Union and China were the \"Big Four\" Allied powers, who called themselves \"The United Nations.\" They were joined by numerous other countries, such as Canada, and other Commonwealth countries, as well as governments in exile, such as the Free France and the Netherlands.\nThe Cairo Conference held in Cairo, Egypt, outlined the Allied position against Japan during World War II and made decisions about postwar Asia. The meeting was attended by President of the United States Franklin Roosevelt, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Winston Churchill, and Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek of the Republic of China. Soviet leader Joseph Stalin did not attend the conference because his meeting with Chiang could have caused friction between the Soviet Union and Japan.\n\nBritain, the USSR and the US, were in frequent contact through ambassadors, top generals, foreign ministers and special emissaries such as the American Harry Hopkins. There were numerous high-level conferences; in total Churchill attended 14 meetings, Roosevelt 12, and Stalin 5. Most visible were the three summit conferences that brought together the three top leaders.\n\nThe first meeting of the Big Three, Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill, came at the Tehran Conference in Iran from 28 November to 1 December 1943. It agreed on an invasion of France in 1944 (the \"Second front\") and dealt with Turkey, Iran, Yugoslavia and the war against Japan as well as the post-war settlement.\n\nThe Yalta Conference met in the Crimea (Russia) February 4–11, 1945. It focused on postwar plans for European boundaries. The Soviets already controlled Poland. The new boundaries of Poland were especially important, with Stalin seeking control of western Belorussia and western Ukraine. Poland was to gain parts of Germany. Stalin promised free elections in Poland under the auspices of a government he controlled. At Roosevelt's strong urging, Stalin agreed to enter the war against Japan three months after the defeat of Germany. It was agreed the USSR would be a member of the United Nations Security Council, with a veto, and Ukraine and Belorussia would be UN members, but not the other 12 Soviet republics. Germany was to be divided into three zones of occupation, and France was also to get a zone. In a decision that became highly controversial, all civilians would be repatriated.\n\nThe Potsdam Conference was held July 17-Aug. 2, 1945, at Potsdam, Germany, near Berlin. Stalin met with the new U.S. President Harry S. Truman and two British prime ministers in succession—Winston Churchill and Clement Attlee. It demanded \"unconditional surrender\" from Japan, and finalized arrangements for Germany to be occupied and controlled by the Allied Control Commission. The status of other occupied countries was discussed in line with the basic agreements made earlier at Yalta.\n\nThe Dumbarton Oaks Conference or, more formally, the Washington Conversations on International Peace and Security Organization was an international conference at which the United Nations was formulated and negotiated among international leaders. The conference was held at Dumbarton Oaks from August 21, 1944 to October 7, 1944. At the conference, delegations from the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, the United States and the Republic of China deliberated over proposals for the establishment of an organization to maintain peace and security in the world.\n\nSan Francisco Conference was a convention of delegates from 50 Allied nations that took place from 25 April 1945 to 26 June 1945 in San Francisco, United States. At this convention, the delegates reviewed and rewrote the Dumbarton Oaks agreements. The convention resulted in the creation of the United Nations Charter, which was opened for signature on 26 June.The heads of the delegations of the four sponsoring countries (China, Britain, the United States and the Soviet Union) took turns as chairman of the plenary meetings.\n\nThough most Americans favoured Britain in the war, there was widespread opposition to American military intervention in European affairs. President Roosevelt's policy of cash-and-carry still allowed Britain and France to purchase munitions from the United States and carry them home.\nChurchill, who had long warned against Germany and demanded rearmament, became prime minister after Chamberlain's policy of appeasement had totally collapsed and Britain was unable to reverse the German invasion of Norway in April 1940. After the fall of France Roosevelt gave Britain all aid short of war. The Destroyers for Bases Agreement of September 1940, gave the United States a ninety-nine-year lease on strategically located bases in the Atlantic in exchange for the Royal Navy receiving fifty old destroyers to use in anti-submarine warfare. Roosevelt also sold (for cash) munitions that were carried away in British ships, including over half a million rifles, 85,000 machine guns, 25,000 automatic rifles, mortars, hundreds of field guns, with supplies of the necessary ammunition. The British needed these munitions to reequip the soldiers who lost all their arms when Dunkirk was evacuated in June 1940.\n\nBeginning in March 1941, the United States enacted Lend-Lease sending tanks, warplanes, munitions, ammunition, food, and medical supplies. Britain received $31.4 billion out of a total of $50.1 billion of supplies sent to the Allies. In sharp contrast to the First World War, these were not loans and no repayment was involved.\n\nMillions of American servicemen were based in Britain during the war, which led to a certain amount of friction with British men and intermarriage with British women. This animosity was explored in art and film, most particularly \"A Matter of Life and Death\" and \"A Canterbury Tale\". In 1945 Churchill sent a British fleet to help the United States attack and invade Japan.\n\nFrom January 14–24, 1943 Roosevelt, Churchill and the Combined Staff met in Casablanca, Morocco. They decided on the major Allied strategy for 1943 in Europe, especially the invasion of Italy and planning for the invasion of France. At Roosevelt's suggestion they agreed on a policy of \"unconditional surrender.\" This policy uplifted Allied morale, but it also made the Nazis resolve to fight to the bitter end. Roosevelt also tried to establish a working relationship between the two main French allies, Henri Giraud, the French high commissioner in North Africa, and General de Gaulle, leader of the Free French.\n\nBritain's declaration of war against Germany in September 1939 included the Crown colonies and India, which it directly controlled. The dominions were independent in foreign policy but all of them (Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and South Africa) soon declared war on Germany. The fears in London that South Africa would take the advice of Prime Minister J. B. M. Hertzog and remain neutral were relieved when the parliament voted 80 to 67 for war, and Hertzog resigned. After the French defeat in June 1940, Britain and its empire stood alone in combat against Germany, until June 1941. The United States gave strong diplomatic, financial and material support, starting in 1940, especially through Lend Lease, which began in 1941, In August 1941, Churchill and Roosevelt met and agreed on the Atlantic Charter, which proclaimed \"the rights of all peoples to choose the form of government under which they live\" should be respected. This wording was ambiguous and would be interpreted differently by the British, Americans, and nationalist movements.\n\nStarting in December 1941, Japan overran British possessions in Asia, including Hong Kong, Malaya, and especially the key base at Singapore, and marched into Burma, headed toward India. Churchill's reaction to the entry of the United States into the war was that Britain was now assured of victory and the future of the empire was safe, but the rapid defeats irreversibly harmed Britain's standing and prestige as an imperial power. The realisation that Britain could not defend them pushed Australia and New Zealand into permanent close ties with the United States.\n\nSerious tension erupted over American demands that India be given independence, a proposition Churchill vehemently rejected. For years Roosevelt had encouraged Britain's disengagement from India. The American position was based on principled opposition to colonialism, practical concern for the outcome of the war, and the expectation of a large American role in a post-colonial era. However, in 1942 when the Congress Party launched a Quit India movement, the British authorities immediately arrested tens of thousands of activists, including Jawaharlal Nehru and Mahatma Gandhi, and imprisoned them until 1945. Meanwhile, India became the main American staging base for aid to China. Churchill threatened to resign if Roosevelt pushed too hard regarding independence, so Roosevelt backed down.\n\nIn spring 1939 both Britain and France formally announced they would defend the integrity of Poland. Hitler did not believe they would fight in such a faraway hopeless cause, and he invaded Poland on September 1, 1939. Britain and France declared war on September 3, 1939. But there was little they could or did do to help Poland.\n\nThe USSR launched the Winter War against Finland in November 1939. The Finns made a remarkable defense against the much larger Soviet forces. The unprovoked invasion excited widespread outrage at popular and elite levels in support of Finland not only in wartime Britain and France but also in neutral United States. The League of Nations declared the USSR was the aggressor and expelled it. \"American opinion makers treated the attack on Finland as dastardly aggression worthy of daily headlines, which thereafter exacerbated attitudes toward Russia.\" Elite opinion in Britain and France swung in favor of military intervention. Winston Churchill, as head of the Royal Navy, and French Premier Paul Reynaud were the chief advocates. It came when there was a military stalemate on the continent called the \"Phony War\". Months of planning at the highest civilian, military and diplomatic levels in London and Paris, saw multiple reversals and deep divisions. Finally the British and French agreed on a plan that involved uninvited invasions of neutral Norway, Sweden, Iceland, and Denmark's Faroe Islands, with the goals chiefly of damaging the German war economy and also assisting Finland in its war with the Soviet Union. An allied war against the Soviet Union was part of the plan.\n\nThe actual Allied goal was not to help Finland but to engage in economic warfare against Germany by cutting off shipments of Swedish iron ore, which they calculated would seriously weaken German war industry. The British Ministry of Economic Warfare stated that the project against Norway would be likely to cause \"An extremely serious repercussion on German industrial output...and would in any case have a profound effect on the duration of the war.\" The idea was to shift forces away from doing little on the static Western front into an active role on a new front. The British military leadership by December became enthusiastic supporters when they realized that their first choice, an attack on German oil supplies, would not get approval but this plan would win strong support. The poor performance of the Soviet army against the Finns strengthened the confidence of the Allies that the invasion, and the resulting war with Russia, would be worthwhile. However the civilian leadership of Neville Chamberlain's government in London drew back and postponed invasion plans. The neutrals refused to cooperate. Meanwhile, Finland was overwhelmed and gave in to Moscow on 13 March 1940 and the plan was postponed. War plans against the USSR were dropped and the new goal was to mine the Norwegian coast to prevent the passage of ships carrying iron ore from northern Norway. There were more delays and when mining operations finally started on 9 April it was too late—the Germans hours before had invaded Norway and had the upper hand in the Norwegian Campaign.\n\nWhen Germany began its attack on France in April 1940, British troops and French troops again fought side by side, but defeat came quickly. The Royal Navy evacuated 198,000 British and 140,000 French soldiers in the Dunkirk evacuation in late May/early June 1940. Tens of thousands of tanks, trucks and artillery guns were left behind, as well as all of the radios, machine guns, rifles, tents, spare parts and other gear. The new Prime Minister Winston Churchill pledged that Britain would continue to fight for France's freedom, even if it must do so alone. After Mers el Kebir, Britain recognised Free France as its ally and the legitimate government of France. \n\nThe United States maintained diplomatic relations with Vichy (until late 1942) and avoided recognition of de Gaulle's claim to be the one and only government of France. Churchill, caught between the U.S. and de Gaulle, tried to find a compromise.\n\nIn October 1944 Churchill and his Foreign Minister Anthony Eden met in Moscow with Stalin and his foreign minister Molotov. They planned who would control what in postwar Eastern Europe. They agreed to give 90% of the influence in Greece to Britain and 90% in Romania to USSR. USSR gained an 80%/20% division in Bulgaria and Hungary. There was a 50/50 division in Yugoslavia, and no Soviet share in Italy.\n\nIraq was an independent country in 1939, with a strong British presence, especially in the oil fields. Iraq broke relations with Germany but there was a strong pro-German element. The regime of Regent 'Abd al-Ilah was overthrown in 1941 by the Golden Square pro-Nazi army officers, headed by Rashid Ali. The short living pro-Nazi government was overpowered in May 1941 by British forces in Anglo-Iraqi War and the Regent returned to power. Iraq was later used as a base for allied attacks on Vichy-French held Mandate of Syria and support for the Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran.\n\nIn 1939 the dictator of Iran was Shah Reza Pahlevi, an army officer who took control in a coup d'état in 1925 and called himself \"shah.\" He was a modernizer who had little use for traditional religion, but collaborated with the Germans. Iran proclaimed neutrality when the war began in 1939. British and Soviet forces occupied Iran in August 1941, deposed the Shah, and installed his son Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi. Iran, with a largely rural population of 13 million, had oil wells and became a major route for shipping military supplies from the U.S. to the Soviet Union.\n\nAt the Tehran Conference of 1943, Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill issued the Tehran Declaration that guaranteed the post-war independence and boundaries of Iran. However, when the war actually ended, Soviet troops stationed in northwestern Iran not only refused to withdraw but backed revolts that established short-lived, pro-Soviet separatist national states in the northern regions of Azerbaijan and Iranian Kurdistan, the Azerbaijan People's Government and the Republic of Kurdistan respectively, in late 1945. Soviet troops did not withdraw from Iran proper until May 1946 after receiving a promise of oil concessions. The Soviet republics in the north were soon overthrown and the oil concessions were revoked.\n\nThe British dominions joined in the September 3 declaration of war, except for Canada. In a symbolic statement of autonomous foreign policy, Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King delayed Parliament's vote on a declaration of war until September 10.\n\nBritain generally handled the diplomatic relations of the Commonwealth nations. Canada hosted top level conferences between Britain and the U.S., but did not itself participate in the formal discussions.\n\nAustralia, however, felt abandoned by London and moved to a close relationship with the U.S., playing a support role in the American war against Japan. Australian Prime Minister John Curtin stated, \"I make it clear that Australia looks to America, free of any pangs as to our traditional links or kinship with the United Kingdom.\" U.S. President Roosevelt ordered General Douglas MacArthur, to move the American base from the Philippines to Brisbane, Australia. By September 1943, more than 120,000 American soldiers were in Australia. The Americans were warmly welcomed but there was some tensions. MacArthur worked very closely with the Australian government and took command of its combat operations. Fighting continued throughout Southeast Asia for the next two years. When the European war was declared over, Australia and the US still had a war to win against Japan. MacArthur promoted a policy of \"island hopping\" for his American troops while he suggested that the Australian troops should continue clearing and rounding up the Japanese from New Guinea, New Britain, Borneo and Bougainville.\n\nPresident Roosevelt tried to avoid repeating what he saw as Woodrow Wilson's mistakes in World War I. He often made exactly the opposite decision. Wilson called for neutrality in thought and deed, while Roosevelt made it clear his administration strongly favored Britain and China. Unlike the loans in World War I, the United States made large-scale grants of military and economic aid to the Allies through Lend-Lease, with little expectation of repayment. Wilson did not greatly expand war production before the declaration of war; Roosevelt did. Wilson waited for the declaration to begin a draft; Roosevelt started one in 1940. Wilson never made the United States an official ally but Roosevelt did. Wilson never met with the top Allied leaders but Roosevelt did. Wilson proclaimed independent policy, as seen in the 14 Points, while Roosevelt always had a collaborative policy with the Allies. In 1917, United States declared war on Germany; in 1941, Roosevelt waited until the enemy attacked at Pearl Harbor. Wilson refused to collaborate with the Republicans; Roosevelt named leading Republicans to head the War Department and the Navy Department. Wilson let General John J. Pershing make the major military decisions; Roosevelt made the major decisions in his war including the \"Europe first\" strategy. He rejected the idea of an armistice and demanded unconditional surrender. Roosevelt often mentioned his role in the Wilson administration, but added that he had profited more from Wilson's errors than from his successes.\n\nAfter Pearl Harbor, antiwar sentiment in the United States evaporated overnight; The nation was now united on foreign policy. On December 11, 1941, Germany and Italy declared war on the United States, which responded in kind. Roosevelt and his military advisers implemented a war strategy with the objectives of halting the German advances in the Soviet Union and in North Africa; launching an invasion of western Europe with the aim of crushing Nazi Germany between two fronts; and saving China and defeating Japan. Public opinion, however, gave priority to the destruction of Japan, so American forces were sent chiefly to the Pacific in 1942.\n\nIn the opening weeks of the war, Japan had conquered the Philippines, and the British and Dutch colonies in Southeast Asia, capturing Singapore in February 1942. Furthermore, Japan cut off the overland supply route to China. The United States flew supplies to China \"over the hump\" (The Himalayan Mountains) at enormous cost, until a road could be opened in 1945.\n\nRoosevelt met with Churchill in late December and planned a broad informal alliance among the U.S., Britain, China and the Soviet Union. This included Churchill's initial plan to invade North Africa (called Operation Gymnast) and the primary plan of the U.S. generals for a western Europe invasion, focused directly on Germany (Operation Sledgehammer). An agreement was also reached for a centralized command and offensive in the Pacific theater called ABDA (American, British, Dutch, Australian) to save China and defeat Japan. Nevertheless, the Atlantic First strategy was intact, to Churchill's great satisfaction. On New Year's Day 1942, Churchill and FDR issued the \"Declaration by United Nations\", representing 26 countries in opposition to the Tripartite Pact of Germany, Italy and Japan.\n\nIn 1931 Japan took advantage of China's very weak central government in the Warlord Era and fabricated the Mukden Incident in 1931 to set up the puppet state of Manchukuo in Manchuria. Puyi, who had been the last emperor of China, became \"emperor\" of China again; he was a Japanese puppet. In 1937 the Marco Polo Bridge Incident triggered the Second Sino-Japanese War. The invasion was launched by the bombing of many cities such as Shanghai, Nanjing and Guangzhou. The latest, which began on 22 and 23 September 1937, called forth widespread protests culminating in a resolution by the Far Eastern Advisory Committee of the League of Nations. The Imperial Japanese Army captured the Chinese capital city of Nanjing, and committed war crimes in the Nanjing massacre. The war tied down large numbers of Chinese soldiers, so Japan set up three different Chinese puppet states to enlist some Chinese support.\n\nThe United States was a strong supporter of China after Japan invaded in 1937. Even the isolationists who opposed war in Europe supported a hard-line against Japan. The outbreak of the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937 saw aid flow into the Republic of China, led by Chiang Kai-shek.\n\nAmerican public sympathy for the Chinese was aroused by reports from missionaries, novelists such as Pearl Buck, and \"Time Magazine\" of Japanese brutality in China, including reports surrounding the Nanking Massacre, also known as the 'Rape of Nanking'. Japanese-American relations were further soured by the USS Panay Incident during the bombing of Nanjing. Roosevelt demanded an apology from the Japanese, which was received, but relations between the two countries continued to deteriorate. By early 1941 the U.S. was preparing to send American planes flown by American pilots under American command, but wearing Chinese uniforms, to fight the Japanese invaders and even to bomb Japanese cities. The \"Flying Tigers\" under Claire Chennault arrived just as the U.S. entered the war.\n\nTo augment Chennault's 100 P-40Bs, in May 1941 Washington decided to send 144 Vultee P-48's, 125 P-43's and 66 Lockheed and Douglas medium bombers. The goal was to give China by early 1942, a respectable air force, judged by Far Eastern standards, sufficient to \"(a) protect strategic points, (b) permit local army offensive action, (c) permit the bombing of Japanese air bases and supply dumps in China and Indo-China, and the bombing of coastal and river transport, and (d) permit occasional incendiary bombing of Japan.\"\n\nA year before the U.S. officially entered the war (after Dec. 7, 1941), Chennault developed an ambitious plan for a sneak attack on Japanese bases. His Flying Tigers would use American bombers and American pilots, all with Chinese markings. The U.S. military was opposed to his scheme, and kept raising obstacles, but it was adopted by top civilian officials including Henry Morgenthau, Jr. (the Secretary of the Treasury who financed China) and especially President Roosevelt himself, who made it a high priority to keep China alive. By October, 1941, bombers and crews were on their way to China. However the American attack never took place. The bombers and crews arrived after Pearl Harbor and were used for the war in Burma, for they lacked the range to reach China.\n\nAfter the formal declaration of war in December 1941, the U.S. stepped up the flow of aid, but it had to be routed through India and over the Himalayan Mountains because Japan blocked the other routes. Chiang's beleaguered government was now headquartered in remote Chongqing. Madame Chiang Kaishek, who had been educated in the United States, addressed the US Congress and toured the country to rally support for China. Congress amended the Chinese Exclusion Act and Roosevelt moved to end the unequal treaties. However, the perception that Chiang's government, with his poorly equipped and ill-fed troops was unable to effectively fight the Japanese or that he preferred to focus more on defeating the Communists grew. China Hands such as Joseph Stilwell argued that it was in American interest to establish communication with the Communists to prepare for a land-based counteroffensive invasion of Japan. The Dixie Mission, which began in 1943, was the first official American contact with the Communists. Other Americans, such as Claire Chennault, argued for air power. In 1944, Generalissimo Chiang acceded to Roosevelt's request that an American general take charge of all forces in the area, but demanded that Stilwell be recalled. General Albert Wedemeyer replaced Stilwell, Patrick Hurley became ambassador, and Us-China relations became much smoother.\n\nAfter World War II ended in 1945, the showdown came between the Nationalists and the Communists in a full-scale civil war. American general George C. Marshall tried to broker a truce but he failed. The Kuomintang (Nationalist) military position steadily worsened and by 1949, the Communists were victorious and drove the Nationalists from the mainland onto the island of Taiwan and other islands. Mao Zedong established the People's Republic of China (PRC) in mainland China, while the Republic of China remains in Taiwan to this day.\n\nJoseph Stalin controlled the foreign policy of the Soviet Union, with Vyacheslav Molotov as his foreign minister. Their policy was neutrality until August 1939. The Soviet military had conversations in Moscow with a high level military delegation from Britain and France. The Soviets demanded an agreement from Poland to allow Soviet troops to enter that country to defend it against Germany, but Poland refused. Those talks went nowhere. On August 21, Hitler made friendly proposals to Stalin that led to the Molotov–Ribbentrop nonaggression pact on August 23 that stunned the world. The Soviets achieved friendly relations with Germany in order to carve up Key elements of Eastern Europe, especially Poland and the Baltic states. Following the pact, Germany invaded and quickly defeated Poland; then the Soviets invaded and took control of its preassigned areas of eastern Poland. Both invaders systematically decimated the Polish elite. In the 1940 Katyn massacre, the NKVD (Soviet secret police) executed 22,000 Polish military and police officers and civilian intelligentsia.\n\nFor the next two years, the USSR supplied Germany with oil and grain. Furthermore, the Kremlin ordered Communist parties around the world to denounce the imperialistic war waged by Britain and France against Germany. For example, B. Farnborough says, \"During the entire period up to the fall of France the British Communist Party functioned as a propaganda agency for Hitler.\"\n\nAfter he ignored repeated warnings, Stalin was stunned when Hitler invaded in June 1941. Stalin eventually came to terms with Britain and the United States, cemented through a series of summit meetings. The U.S. and Britain supplied war materials through Lend Lease. There was some coordination of military action, especially in summer 1944. At war's end it was doubtful whether Stalin would allow free elections in eastern Europe. The central diplomatic issue was future of Allies, and as it turned out this Soviet-Western alliance was not a permanent one.\n\nFrance and Britain collaborated closely in 1939, and together declared war against Germany two days after it invaded Poland. Apart from the British Dominions (Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa), no independent nation joined their cause. Britain and France took a defensive posture, fearing German air attacks on cities. France hoped the Maginot Line would protect it from an invasion. There was little fighting between the fall of Poland in mid-September and the following spring; it was the Phoney War in Britain or \"Drôle de guerre\" – the funny sort of war – in France. Britain tried several peace feelers, but Hitler did not respond.\n\nWhen Germany had its hands free for an attack in the west, it launched its Blitzkrieg against Denmark and Norway, easily pushing the British out. Then it invaded the Low Countries and tricked Britain and France into sending its best combat units deep into the Netherlands, where they became trapped in the Battle of France in May 1940. The Royal Navy rescued over 300,000 British and French soldiers from Dunkirk, but left behind all the equipment.\n\nParis fell to the Germans on 14 June 1940, and the government surrendered in the Armistice of 22 June 1940 with new new leader Marshal Philippe Pétain (1856-1961). His Vichy regime was authoritarian, Catholic, paternal and anti-Semitic. His charisma and popularity from his heroic role in the First World War strengthened his authority, although he was increasingly too old to pay attention to details. After Germany seized all of Vichy in October 1942, it installed Pierre Laval as its puppet leaving Pétain as a helpless figurehead.\n\nThe armistice included numerous provisions that weakened France, all largely guaranteed by the German policy of keeping 2 million French prisoners of war and workers in Germany as hostages. Vichy France was nominally a neutral country. it never declared war on the Soviet Union or Britain, and was recognized diplomatically by the United States until 1942. Although Vichy France was nominally in control of all of France—apart from Alsace Lorraine—in practice the Germans controlled three-fifths of the country, including the northern and western coasts, the industrial northeast, and the Paris region. The Petain government relocated to the resort town of in Vichy and controlled the rest From the start, Germany wanted food, minerals, and industrial productions, as well as volunteers to work in German factories. Vichy was allowed to control its foreign colonies—to the extent it could defend them against the Free French—as well as its fleet, to the extent it could defend it against British naval attacks. In October 1942, Germany took it all over; the Vichy regime became entirely a puppet of the German occupiers.\n\nThe small town of Montoire-sur-le-Loir was the scene of two meetings. On October 22, 1940, Pierre Laval met with Hitler to set up a meeting on October 24 between Hitler and Pétain. It ended in a much-publicized handshake between the two, but in fact their discussions had been entirely general and no decisions had been made. Hitler was impressed with Petain's commitment to defending the French Empire. False rumours abounded that France had made major concessions regarding colonies and German control of French ports and the French feet. Germany controlled the entire French economy, and demanded huge reparations in gold and food. However nearly 2 million French soldiers became prisoners of war in Germany. They served as hostages and forced laborers in German factories. Vichy was intensely conservative and anti-Communist, but it was practically helpless. Vichy finally collapsed when the Germans fled in summer 1944. The United States granted Vichy full diplomatic recognition, sending Admiral William D. Leahy to Paris as American ambassador. President Roosevelt hoped to use American influence to encourage those elements in the Vichy government opposed to military collaboration with Germany. Vichy still controlled its overseas colonies and Washington encouraged Vichy to resist German demands such as for air bases in Syria or to move war supplies through French North Africa. The essential American position was that France should take no action not explicitly required by the armistice terms that could adversely affect Allied efforts in the war. When Germany took full control, the U.S. and Canada cut their ties with Vichy. by 1942, Germany was demanding that Vichy turnover the Jews for deportation to German concentration camps. Reluctantly at first, then more enthusiastically, Vichy complied. They turned over 80,000 of the 330,000 French and foreign Jews living in Vichy; the Germans killed 77,000. When Germany tried to seize the French fleet at Toulon in November, 1942, the French navy scuttled all its ships.\n\nBritain feared that the powerful French navy could end up in German hands and be used against its own naval forces, which were so vital to maintaining north Atlantic shipping and communications. Under the armistice, France had been allowed to retain the French Navy, the \"Marine Nationale\", under strict conditions. Vichy pledged that the fleet would never fall into the hands of Germany, but refused to send the fleet beyond Germany's reach by sending it to Britain or to far away territories of the French empire such as the West Indies. Shortly after France gave up it attacked a large French naval contingent in Mers-el-Kebir, killing 1,297 French military personnel. Vichy severed diplomatic relations but did not declare war on Britain. Churchill also ordered French ships in British ports to be seized by the Royal Navy. The French squadron at Alexandria, Egypt, under Admiral René-Emile Godfroy, was effectively interned until 1943.\n\nThe American position towards Vichy France and Free France was inconsistent. President Roosevelt disliked and distrusted de Gaulle, and agreed with Ambassador Leahy's view that he was an \"apprentice dictator.\"\n\nPreparing for a landing in North Africa in late 1942, the US looked for a top French ally. It turned to Henri Giraud shortly before the landing on 8 November 1942, but he had little local support. By hapstance the Vichy leader Admiral François Darlan was captured and supported the Americans. The Allies, with General Dwight D. Eisenhower in charge, signed a deal with Admiral Darlan on 22 November 1942 in which the Allies recognized Darlan as high commissioner for North Africa and West Africa. The Allied world was stunned at giving a high command to man who days before had been collaborating with the Nazis; Roosevelt and Churchill supported Eisenhower, for he was following a plan that had been worked out in London and had been approved by Roosevelt and Churchill. Darlan was assassinated on 24 December 1942, so Washington turned again towards Giraud, who was made High Commissioner of French North and West Africa. Giraud failed to build a political base and was displaced by the last man with any standing, de Gaulle.\n\nFree France was the insurgent French government based in London and the overseas French colonies and led by charismatic general Charles de Gaulle. De Gaulle had been a Secretary of state in the last consistutional government in the French Third Republic. From London on 18 June 1940 he gave an impassioned radio address exhorting the patriotic French people to resist Nazi Germany He organized the Free French Forces from soldiers that had escaped with the British at Dunkirk. With British military support the Free French gradually gained control of all French colonies except Indochina, which the Japanese controlled. The U.S., Britain and Canada wanted Vichy to keep nominal control of the small islands of St. Pierre and Miquelon for reasons of prestige, but de Gaulle seized them anyway in late 1941.\n\nWhen the British and Americans landed in France in June 1944 de Gaulle headed a government in exile based in London, but he continued to create diplomatic problems for the U.S. and Britain. He refused to allow French soldiers to land on D-Day, and insisted that France be treated as a great power by the other Allies, and that he himself was the only representative of France. Churchill, caught between the U.S. and de Gaulle, tried to find a compromise. The U.S. and Britain allowed de Gaulle the honor of being the first to march into Paris at the head of his army after the Germans had fled.\n\nThe main neutrals were Ireland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Turkey.\n\nThe Soviet Union was officially neutral until June 1941 in Europe, and until August 1945 in Asia, when it attacked Japan in cooperation with the U.S.\n\nThe U.S. believed, falsely, that Germany had a master plan to subvert and take control of the economy of much of South America. Washington made anti-Nazi activity a high priority in the region. By July 1941, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt authorized the creation of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs (OCIAA) in response to perceived propaganda efforts in Latin America by Germany and Italy. Through the use of news, film and radio broadcast media in the United States, Roosevelt sought to enhance his Good Neighbor policy, promote Pan-Americanism and forestall military hostility in Latin America through the use of cultural diplomacy. Three countries actively joined the war effort, while others passively broke relations or nominally declared war. Cuba declared war in December 1941 and actively helped in the defense of the Panama Canal. It did not send forces to Europe. Mexico declared war on Germany in 1942 after u-boats sank Mexican tankers carrying crude oil to the United States. It sent a 300-man fighter squadron to the war against Japan in 1945. Brazil declared war against Germany and Italy on 22 August 1942 and sent a 25,700-man infantry force that fought mainly on the Italian front, from September 1944 to May 1945. Its Navy and Air Force acted in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nArgentina hosted a strong, very-well-organized pro-Nazi element before the war that was controlled by German ambassadors. Brazil, Chile and Mexico had smaller movements. American foreign-policy worked to unite all of Latin America in a coalition against Germany. Argentina proved recalcitrant, and the US worked to undermine the Argentine government. The American policy backfired when the military seized power in a coup in 1943. Relationships grew worse to the point that Washington seriously considered economic and diplomatic isolation of Argentina and tried unsuccessfully to keep it out of the United Nations in 1945. Historians now agree that the supposed affinity between Argentina and Germany was greatly exaggerated.\n\nThe Argentine government remained neutral until the last days of the war but quietly tolerated entry of Nazi leaders fleeing Germany, Belgium and Vichy France in 1945. Indeed, a conspiracy theory grew up after the war that greatly exaggerated the Nazi numbers and amount of gold they brought. Historians have shown there was little gold and probably not many Nazis, but the myths live on.\n\nDespite declaring neutrality the Baltic states were secretly assigned to the Soviet Sphere of influence via the Molotov–Ribbentrop pact and subsequently occupied by the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany. Diplomatic legations continued to represent the Baltic states throughout the period. The United States never recognized control by Germans or USSR.\n\nIreland tried to be strictly neutral during the war, and refused to allow Britain to use bases. However it had large sales of exports to Britain, and tens of thousands joined the British armed forces.\n\nPortugal controlled strategically vital Azores islands in the Atlantic, and Britain and the U.S. made plans called Operation Alacrity to invade them if necessary. Portugal although it had an alliance with Britain was officially neutral; its highest goal was to avoid a German invasion. Its dictator Salazar collaborated with the British and sold them rubber and tungsten (\"wolfram\"). In late 1943 he allowed the Allies to establish air bases in the Azores to fight U-boats. He helped Spain avoid German control. Tungsten was a major product, and he sold to Germany; he stopped in June 1944, when the threat of a German invasion of Portugal was no longer possible. He worked to regain control of East Timor after the Japanese seized it. He admitted several thousand Jewish refugees. Lisbon maintained air connections with Britain and the U.S. Lisbon was a hotbed of spies and served as the base for the International Red Cross in its distribution of relief supplies to POWs held by Germany. The Quakers and other peace groups used it as a base for their aid to refugees.\n\nNazi leaders spent much of the war attempting to persuade the Franco regime to enter the war and allow a German army to march on Gibraltar. The overtures proved futile. Franco was sympathetic but remained emphatically neutral. However, Spain did need to pay off its heavy debt to Germany. Therefore, Franco did provide various kinds of support to Italy and Germany. It sold Germany supplies, especially wolfram, the hard-to-find tungsten ore. It formed 45,000 volunteers into the Blue Division, which fought exclusively on the Eastern Front.\n\nSpain was neutral and traded as well with the Allies. Germany had an interest in seizing the key fortress of Gibraltar, but Franco stationed his army at the French border to dissuade Germany from occupying the Iberian Peninsula. Franco displayed pragmatism and his determination to act principally in Spanish interests, in the face of Allied economic pressure, Axis military demands, and Spain's geographic isolation. As the war progressed he became more hard-line toward Germany and more accommodating to the Allies.\n\nAt the outbreak of war between Germany an Poland, Britain an France in September 1939, Sweden declared neutrality. At outbreak of war in November between Finland and the Soviet Union, Sweden declared \"Non-belligerent\" to make it possible to support Finland with arms and Volunteers in the Winter War. From 13 December to the end of the war, a National unity government under Prime Minister Per Albin Hansson and Foreign Minister Christian Günther was formed that included all major parties in the Riksdag.\n\nFrom April 1940 Sweden and Finland was encircled between the Nazi Germany and the Soviet union and subject to both British and German blockades. In spring-summer 1940 the United States stopped delivery of fighter aircraft to Sweden.\nSweden made concessions to both Allies and Germany. It held that that neutrality and cooperation with Germany were necessary for survival, for Germany was vastly more powerful, concessions were limited and were only made where the threat was too great; neutrality was bent but not broken; national unity was paramount; and in any case Sweden had the neutral right to trade with Germany. Germany needed Swedish iron and had nothing to gain—and much iron to lose—by an invasion.\n\nAs a free country, refugees from Finland, Norway, Denmark an the Baltic states fled to Sweden during the war. During the last part of the war, it was possible to save some victims from German concentration camps.\n\nSwitzerland was neutral and did business with both sides. It mobilized its army to defend itself against any invasion. The Germans did make plans, but never invaded. Cut off from the Allies, Swiss trade was mostly with Germany, with Swiss banks a favourite place for Nazis to store their loot. The Swiss depended on German permission to import its food and fuel. Smuggling high precision tools and weapons (such as jewel bearings, diamond dies, and chronographs) to Britain took place on a large scale. Switzerland became a convenient center for spies and espionage.\n\nSwiss banks paid Germany 1.3 billion Swiss Francs for gold; Germany used the Francs to buy supplies on the world market. However much of the gold was looted and the Allies warned Switzerland during the war. In 1947 Switzerland paid 250 million francs in exchange for the dropping of claims relating to the Swiss role in the gold transactions.\n\nSwitzerland took in 48,000 refugees during the war, of whom 20,000 were Jewish. They also turned away about 40,000 applicants for refugee status.\n\nSwitzerland's role regarding Nazi Germany became highly controversial in the 1990s. Wylie says, \"Switzerland has been widely condemned for its part in the war. It has been accused of abetting genocide, by refusing to offer sanctuary to Hitler's victims, bankrolling the Nazi war economy, and callously profiting from Hitler's murderous actions by seizing the assets of those who perished in the death camps.\" On the other hand, Churchill told his foreign minister in late 1944:\n\nTurkey was neutral in the war, but signed a treaty with Britain and France in October 1939 that said the Allies would defend Turkey if Germany attacked it. The deal was enhanced with loans of ₤41 million. An invasion was threatened in 1941 but did not happen and Ankara refused German requests to allow troops to cross its borders into Syria or into the USSR. Germany had been its largest trading partner before the war, and Turkey continued to do business with both sides. It purchased arms from both sides. The Allies tried to stop German purchases of chrome (used in making better steel). Starting in 1942 the Allies provided military aid and pressed for a declaration of war. Turkey's president conferred with Roosevelt and Churchill at the Cairo Conference in November, 1943, and promised to enter the war when it was fully armed. By August 1944, with Germany nearing defeat, Turkey broke off relations. In February 1945, it declared war on Germany and Japan, a symbolic move that allowed Turkey to join the future United Nations. Meanwhile, relations with Moscow worsened, setting stage for the Truman Doctrine of 1947 and the start of the Cold War.\n\nThe dictators of Germany and Italy, Hitler and Mussolini, had numerous conferences. Neither ever met with top Japanese leaders. The Japanese ambassador to Germany handled many of the negotiations between Germany and Japan, but his coded messages home were intercepted and decrypted by the United States starting in 1941. The U.S. shared them with Britain. They revealed important German plans.\n\nGermany's foreign policy during the war involved the creation of allied governments under direct or indirect control from Berlin. A main goal was obtaining soldiers from the senior allies, such as Italy and Hungary, and millions of workers and ample food supplies from subservient allies such as Vichy France. By the fall of 1942, there were 24 divisions from Romania on the Eastern Front, 10 from Italy and 10 from Hungary. When a country was no longer dependable, Germany would assume full control, as it did with France in 1942, Italy in 1943, and Hungary in 1944. Full control allowed the Nazis to achieve their high priority of mass murdering all Jewish population. Although Japan was officially a powerful ally, the relationship was distant and there was little coordination or cooperation, such as Germany's refusal to share the secret formula for making synthetic oil from coal until late in the war.\nDiNardo argues that in Europe Germany's foreign-policy was dysfunctional during the war, as Hitler treated each ally separately, and refused to create any sort of combined staff that would synchronize policies, armaments, and strategies. Italy, Finland, Romania, and Hungary each dealt with Berlin separately, and never coordinated their activities. Germany was reluctant to share its powerful weapons systems, or to train Axis officers. There were some exceptions, such as the close collaboration between the German and Italian forces in North Africa.\n\nHitler devoted most of his attention during the war to military and diplomatic affairs. He frequently met with foreign leaders, such as the January 10, 1943 he met with Romanian Premier Marshal Ion Antonescu at German field headquarters, with top-ranking generals on both sides. On 9 August 1943, Hitler summoned Tsar Boris III of Bulgaria to a stormy meeting at field headquarters, and demanded he declare war on Russia. The tsar refused, but did agree to declare war on far-away Britain. American news reports stated that Hitler tried to hit him and the tsar suffered a heart attack at the meeting; he died three weeks later.\n\nGerman policy was not to use or build factories in occupied Eastern Europe but to move millions of workers into German factories and farms. Some were forced, some went voluntarily (going in search of food), and others were prisoners of war. They were closely watched, had poor food and housing, and were harshly treated. Their morale and levels of output were mediocre or poor. At the peak the forced labourers comprised 20% of the German work force. Counting deaths and turnover, about 15 million individuals were forced labourers at one point or another during the war. Most came from Poland, Russia and other Eastern areas; all were repatriated at war's end. Vichy France was one of the few countries that was able to have much influence on German policies, as it tried to protect the nearly two million French soldiers held as POWs inside Germany. Vichy arranged a deal whereby Germany would release one POW for every three Frenchmen who volunteered to work in Germany.\n\nBefore coming to power Hitler on his part denounced the right of Poland to independence writing that Poles and Czechs are a \"rabble not worth a penny more than the inhabitants of Sudan or India. How can they demand the rights of independent states?\", and demanding a new partition of Poland with nationalist Russia. Referring to the restoration of the Polish state, Hitler stated \"the creation of the Polish state was the greatest crime ever committed against the German nation\". In January 1934 Germany signed a non aggression pact with Poland followed by trade later in the year, while secretly organizing preparations in the following years for invasion of Poland and mass murder of Polish population\nBy the spring Hitler was openly pondering what inducements he might have to offer to obtain a military alliance with Poland. Between 1919 and 1939 Poland pursued a policy of balance between Soviet Union and Nazi Germany and obtained non-aggression treaties with the former.\n\nIn early 1939 Hitler wanted Poland to join the Anti-Comintern Pact as a junior partner to help with the German invasion of the Soviet Union. Steiner states that Hitler \"wanted to broker an agreement with Colonel Beck, Poland's all-powerful foreign minister, which would bring Danzig and the Polish Corridor back into the Reich but keep Poland as a friend.\" Hitler offered Poland a new non-aggression pact and recognition of its current frontiers if it agreed to permit the German-inhabited city of Danzig to return to Germany as well as allow an extraterritorial highway connecting Germany proper with Danzig and East Prussia going through Polish territory.This would mean effectively annexing Polish territory while cutting off Poland from the sea and its main trade route.The Polish administration distrusted Hitler and saw the plan as a threat to Polish sovereignty, practically subordinating Poland to the Axis and the Anti-Comintern Bloc while reducing the country to a state of near-servitude as its entire trade would be dependent on Germany.\n\nPoland had few friends in the international arena. Two critical developments caught Poland by surprise. At the end of March 1939 Britain and France announced that if Germany invaded Poland they would declare war. In terms of helping Poland militarily in an actual war, everyone realized very little could be done because the British and French military thought that if Germany invaded \"Polish resistance would collapse in the early stages of fighting.\" Neither \"was thinking of any major offensive action in the West.\" Their hope was that the threat of a two-front war would deter Germany. Hitler believed that Britain and France were bluffing, but he handled the Soviet problem in late August, by an alliance agreement with Stalin, which included secret provisions to partition Poland—and indeed divide up much of eastern Europe. The British and French offer was not a bluff—they did indeed declare war on Germany when it invaded Poland on 1 September, but neither was in a position to provide serious help.\n\nPoland had a million-man army, but fell far short in terms of leadership, training, and equipment. The Polish military budget was about 2% of Germany's; its commanding general, Marshal Smigly-Rydz was not well prepared for the challenge. The Soviet Red Army then invaded Poland without a formal declaration of war on 17 September 1939, immediately after the undeclared war between the Soviet Union and the Empire of Japan at the Battles of Khalkhin Gol (Nomonhan) in the Far East had ended. Poland was then partitioned between Germany and the Soviet Union.\n\nDuring the war, Nazi Germany cultivated relationships with Fascist and extreme right groups in neutral and Allied-controlled territory such as the Ossewabrandwag, an Afrikaner paramilitary organisation based on the Nazi Party.\n\nAllied policy was to be friendly with Benito Mussolini, the Fascist dictator of Italy, in the hopes he would either remain neutral or moderate Hitler's expansion plans. However, in May 1939, he joined the Axis with Germany, signing the Pact of Steel. When France was in the last stages of collapse Mussolini entered the war and gained some spoils. He brought along a powerful navy that could challenge the British for control of the Mediterranean. Roosevelt denounced the move: \"On this 10th day of June, 1940, the hand that held the dagger has struck it into the back of its neighbor.\" \nItaly was poorly prepared for war and increasingly fell under Nazi dictation. Italian military efforts failed against Egypt, Greece, Ethiopia and Yugoslavia, and Germany had to intervene to rescue its neighbor. After the Allies invaded and took Sicily and southern Italy in 1943, the regime collapsed. Mussolini was arrested and the King appointed General Pietro Badoglio as new Prime Minister. They switched sides, joined the Allies and banned the Fascist Party. However Germany moved in, occupying Italy north of Naples. German paratroopers rescued Mussolini and Hitler set him up as head of a puppet government the Italian Social Republic, often called the Salò Republic; a civil war resulted. The Germans gave way slowly, for mountainous Italy offered many defensive opportunities.\n\nBritain by 1944 feared that Italy would become a Communist state under Soviet influence. It abandoned its original concept of British hegemony in Italy and substituted for it a policy of support for an independent Italy with a high degree of American influence.\n\nHitler, preparing to invade the Soviet Union, diverted attention to make sure the southern or Balkan flank was secure. Romania was under heavy pressure, and was forced to cede 40,000 square miles of territory with 4 million people to the USSR, Hungary and Bulgaria; German troops came in to protect the vital oil fields (Germany's only source of oil besides the USSR). Romania signed the Axis Pact and became a German ally (November 1940). So too did Hungary (November 1940) and Bulgaria (March, 1941).\n\nIn spring 1939, Italy occupied and annexed Albania. Britain tried to deter an invasion by guaranteeing Greece's frontiers. Greece, under the dictatorship of Ioannis Metaxas, to support the Allies' interests rejected Italian demands. Italy invaded Greece on 28 October 1940, but Greeks repelled the invaders after a bitter struggle (see Greco-Italian War). By mid-December, 1940, the Greeks occupied nearly a quarter of Albania, tying down 530,000 Italian troops. Metaxas tended to favor Germany but after he died in January 1941 Greece accepted British troops and supplies. In March 1941, a major Italian counterattack failed, humiliating Italian military pretensions.\n\nGermany needed to secure its strategic southern flank in preparation for an invasion of the USSR, Hitler reluctantly launched the Battle of Greece in April 1941. Axis troops successfully invaded through Yugoslavia, quickly overcoming Greek and, British defenders. Greece was partitioned under German, Italian, and Bulgarian occupation. A Greek government-in-exile was formed in Cairo (it moved to London), and Germany set up a puppet government in Athens. The latter attracted numerous anti-Communist elements.\n\nWartime conditions were severe for civilians; famine was rampant as grain production plunged and Germany seized food supplies for its own needs. Malaria became epidemic. The Germans retaliated brutally for sabotage by the Greek Resistance. Multiple resistance groups organized, but they often opposed each other. They included the National Republican Greek League (EDES), the National and Social Liberation (EKKA). Strongest of all was the Communist National Liberation Front (EAM); its military arm, the National Popular Liberation Army (ELAS) had 50,000 soldiers. The rivalries set the stage for a civil war after the Germans left in September 1944.\n\nYugoslavia signed on as a German ally in March 1941, but within days an anti-Nazi coup, led by Serbians with British help, overthrew the prince regent, repudiated the Nazis, and installed the 17-year-old heir as King Peter II.\nGermany immediately bombarded the capital Belgrade and invaded in force on April 6. Within days the Germans were in full control; the new king fled as did many party leaders. However some prominent politicians supported the Germans, and others were passive. The German invasion set off an extremely bloody, long civil war that killed over a million people. Germany dismembered Yugoslavia, with slices going to Germany and Italy. Kosovo was given to Albania (then under Italian control). Macedonia went to Bulgaria and Vojvodina was given over to Hungary. Serbia became a German puppet state and was the cockpit of the resistance. In Slovenia, Germans deported Slovenes to Serbia, enrolled them in the German army, or deported them to Germany to work in war factories and labor camps. In Serbia the Germans set up General Milan Nedić in charge of a \"government of national salvation\" but did not permit it to maintain a regular army or foreign affairs ministry.\n\nWhat was left of Yugoslavia became the new Independent State of Croatia (NDH) under the rule of Ante Pavelić and his fascist Ustashe party. It became an Axis ally and controlled Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Ustaše murdered around 90,000 people (mostly Serbs, along with 37,000 Jews), expelled 250,000, and forced another 200,000 to convert to Catholicism.\n\nTwo major anti-German anti-fascist guerrilla movements emerged, the first in Europe self-organised anti-fascist movement (started in Croatia) partisans led by a Croat Josip Broz Tito had the initial support from the Kremlin. The Chetniks led by the Serbian chetnik Colonel Draža Mihailović was loyal to the royal government in exile based in London. Tito's movement won out in 1945, executed its enemies, and reunited Yugoslavia.\n\nJapan had conquered all of Manchuria and most of China by 1939 in the Second Sino-Japanese War, but the Allies refused to recognize the conquests. Japan joined the Axis with Germany, but shared little information. Japan depended on imports from the Allies for 90% of its oil, and the cutoff of oil shipments in mid-1941 left Japan with supplies for only a year or two of serious combat by its warships and warplanes unless it came to terms regarding China, or seized oil fields controlled by Britain and the Netherlands. The latter course meant war, and was urged by army officials who had been bloodied in border conflicts and were reluctant to engage the Soviets. Some admirals and many civilians, including Prime Minister Konoe Fumimaro, believed that a war with the U.S. would end in defeat. The alternative was loss of honor and power. Diplomats proposed political compromises in the form of the \"Amau Doctrine\", dubbed the \"Japanese Monroe Doctrine\" which would have given the Japanese free rein with regard to China. These proposals were rejected by the U.S.; the Japanese Army now demanded a military solution.\n\nJapan launched its own blitzkriegs in East Asia. In 1937, the Japanese Army invaded and captured most of the coastal Chinese cities such as Shanghai. Japan took over French Indochina (Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia), British Malaya (Brunei, Malaysia, Singapore) as well as the Dutch East Indies (Indonesia). Thailand managed to stay independent by becoming a satellite state of Japan. In December 1941 to May 1942, Japan sank major elements of the American, British and Dutch fleets, captured Hong Kong, Singapore, the Philippines and the Dutch East Indies, and reached the borders of India and began bombing Australia. Japan suddenly had achieved its goal of ruling the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.\n\nThe ideology of Japan's colonial empire, as it expanded dramatically during the war, contained two contradictory impulses. On the one hand, it preached the unity of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, a coalition of Asian races, directed by Japan, against the imperialism of Britain, France, the Netherlands, United States, and Europe in general. This approach celebrated the spiritual values of the East in opposition to the crass materialism of the West. In practice, it was a euphemistic title for grabbing land and acquiring essential natural resources. The Japanese installed organizationally-minded bureaucrats and engineers to run their new empire, and they believed in ideals of efficiency, modernization, and engineering solutions to social problems. It was fascism based on technology, and rejected Western norms of democracy. After 1945, the engineers and bureaucrats took over, and turned the wartime techno-fascism into entrepreneurial management skills.\n\nJapan set up puppet regimes in Manchuria (\"Manchukuo\") and China; proper; they vanished at the end of the war. The Japanese Army operated ruthless governments in most of the conquered areas, but paid more favorable attention to the Dutch East Indies. The main goal was to obtain oil, but Japan sponsored an Indonesian nationalist movement under Sukarno. Sukarno finally came to power in the late 1940s after several years of battling the Dutch. The Dutch destroyed their oil wells but the Japanese reopened them. However most of the tankers taking oil to Japan were sunk by American submarines, so Japan's oil shortage became increasing acute.\n\nJapan set up puppet regimes in Manchuria (\"Manchukuo\") and China; proper; they vanished at the end of the war.\nManchuria, the historic homeland of the Manchu dynasty, had an ambiguous character after 1912. It was run by local warlords. The Japanese Army seized control in 1931, and set up a puppet state of Manchukuo in 1932 for the 34,000,000 inhabitants. Other areas were added, and over 800,000 Japanese moved in as administrators. The nominal ruler was Puyi, who as a small child had been the last Emperor of China. He was deposed during the revolution of 1911, and now the Japanese brought him back in a powerless role. Only Axis countries recognized Manchukuo. The United States in 1932 announced the Stimson Doctrine stating that it would never recognize Japanese sovereignty. Japan modernized the economy and operated it as a satellite to the Japanese economy. It was out of range of American bombers, so its factories continued their output to the end. Manchukuo was returned to China in 1945.\n\nWhen Japan seized control of China proper in 1937–38, the Japanese Central China Expeditionary Army set up the Reorganized National Government of China, a puppet state, under the nominal leadership of Wang Ching-wei (1883–1944). It was based in Nanjing. The Japanese were in full control; the puppet state declared war on the Allies in 1943. Wang was allowed to administer the International Settlement in Shanghai. The puppet state had an army of 900,000 soldiers, and was positioned against the Nationalist army under Chiang Kai-shek. It did little fighting.\n\nThe attack on Pearl Harbor initially appeared to be a major success that knocked out the American battle fleet—but it missed the aircraft carriers that were at sea and ignored vital shore facilities whose destruction could have crippled US Pacific operations. Ultimately, the attack proved a long-term strategic disaster that actually inflicted relatively little significant long-term damage while provoking the United States to seek revenge in an all-out total war in which no terms short of unconditional surrender would be entertained.\nHowever, as Admiral Yamamoto warned, Japan's six-month window of military advantage following Pearl Harbor ended with the Japanese Navy's offensive ability being crippled at the hands of the American Navy in the Battle of Midway. As the war became one of mass production and logistics, the U.S. built a far stronger navy with more numerous warplanes, and a superior communications and logistics system. The Japanese had stretched too far and were unable to supply their forward bases—many soldiers died of starvation. Japan built warplanes in large quantity but the quality plunged, and the performance of poorly trained pilots spiraled downward. The Imperial Navy lost a series of major battles, from Midway (1942) to the Philippine Sea (1944) and Leyte Gulf (1945), which put American long-range B-29 bombers in range. A series of massive raids burned out much of Tokyo and 64 major industrial cities beginning in March 1945 while Operation Starvation seriously disrupted the nation's vital internal shipping lanes. Regardless of how the war was becoming hopeless, the circle around the Emperor held fast and refused to open negotiations. Finally in August, two atomic bombs and the Soviet invasion of Manchuria demonstrated the cause was futile, and Hirohito authorized a surrender whereby he kept his throne with his powers taken away.\n\nTotal Japanese military fatalities between 1937 and 1945 were 2.1 million; most came in the last year of the war. Starvation or malnutrition-related illness accounted for roughly 80 percent of Japanese military deaths in the Philippines, and 50 percent of military fatalities in China. The aerial bombing of a total of 65 Japanese cities appears to have taken a minimum of 400,000 and possibly closer to 600,000 civilian lives (over 100,000 in Tokyo alone, over 200,000 in Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined, and 80,000–150,000 civilian deaths in the battle of Okinawa). Civilian death among settlers who died attempting to return to Japan from Manchuria in the winter of 1945 were probably around 100,000.\n\nFinland fought two major wars against the USSR: the Winter War after the USSR invaded, of 1940–41 and the Continuation War of 1941–44, in which Finland teamed with Germany in seeking revenge. It lost both. It fought one small one, the Lapland War to successfully drive German forces out of Lapland in 1944–45.\n\nThe August 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact between Germany and the Soviet Union contained a secret protocol dividing much of eastern Europe and assigning Finland to the Soviet sphere of influence. Finland before 1918 had been a province of Russia, and many Finnish speakers lived in neighboring parts of Russia. After unsuccessfully attempting to force territorial and other concessions on the Finns, the Soviet Union invaded Finland in November 1939 starting the Winter War. Finland won very wide popular support in Britain and the United States.\n\nSoviet success in Finland would threaten Germany's iron-ore supplies and offered the prospect of Allied interference in the region. The Soviets overwhelmed the Finnish resistance in the Winter War, and a peace treaty was signed in March 1940. It ceded some Finnish territory to the Soviet Union, including the Karelian Isthmus, containing Finland's second-largest city, Viipuri, and the critical defensive structure of the Mannerheim Line.\n\nAfter the Winter War, Finland sought protection and support from the Britain and Sweden without success. Finland drew closer to Germany, first with the intent of enlisting German support as a counterweight to thwart continuing Soviet pressure, and later to help regain lost territories. Finland declared war against the Soviet Union on 25 June 1941 in what is called the Continuation War. To meet Stalin's demands, Britain reluctantly declared war on Finland on 6 December 1941, although no other military operations followed. War was never declared between Finland and the United States, though relations were severed between the two countries in 1944 as a result of the Ryti–Ribbentrop Agreement. The arms-length collaboration with Germany stemmed from a precarious balance struck by the Finns in order to avoid antagonizing Britain and the United States. In the end Britain declared war to satisfy the needs of its Soviet policy, but did not engage in combat against Finland. Finland concluded armistice negotiations with the USSR under strong German pressure to continue the war, while British and American acted in accord with their own alliances with the Soviets.\n\nFinland maintained command of its armed forces and pursued war objectives independently of Germany. Germans and Finns did work closely together during Operation Silverfox, a joint offensive against Murmansk. Finland refused German requests to participate actively in the Siege of Leningrad, and also granted asylum to Jews, while Jewish soldiers continued to serve in its army.\n\nAfter Soviet offensives were fought to a standstill, in 1944 Ryti's successor as president, Marshall Mannerheim, opened negotiations with the Soviets, which resulted in the Moscow Armistice on 19 September 1944. Under its terms Finland was obliged to expel German troops from Finnish territory, which resulted in the Lapland War. Finland signed a peace treaty with the Allied powers in 1947.\n\nBritain welcomed governments in exile to set up their headquarters in London whilst others were set up in neutral or other allied territory. Recognition for these bodies would vary and change over time.\n\nWhen the Polish forces were demolished by Germany in the first three weeks of September 1939, the government vanished and most Polish leaders fled to Romania, where they were interred. Other leaders escaped to France, and later to London, where the Polish government-in-exile was set up by General Sikorski. It was recognized by the Allies until 1944.\n\nThe underground resistance movement formed inside Poland; it nominally reported to the government in exile. During the war about 400,000 Poles joined the underground Polish Home Army, about 200,000 went into combat on western fronts in units loyal to the Polish government in exile, and about 300,000 in the last stages of the war.\n\nSince the start of the war the body protested on the international stage against the German occupation of their territory and the treatment of their civilian population. In 1940 the Polish Ministry of Information produced a list of those it believed had been murdered by the Nazis. On 10 December 1942, the Polish government-in-exile published a 16-page report addressed to the Allied governments, titled \"The Mass Extermination of Jews in German Occupied Poland\". The report contained eight pages of Raczyński's Note, which was sent to foreign ministers of 26 governments who signed the Declaration by United Nations on 1 January 1942.\n\nAfter Germany swept to control in April 1940, the government in exile, including the royal family, was based in London. Politics were suspended and the government coordinated action with the Allies, retained control of a worldwide diplomatic and consular service, and operated the huge Norwegian merchant marine. It organized and supervised the resistance within Norway. One long-term impact was the abandonment of a traditional Scandinavian policy of neutrality; Norway became a founding member of NATO in 1949. Norway at the start of the war had the world's fourth largest merchant fleet, at 4.8 million tons, including a fifth of the world's oil tankers. The Germans captured about 20% of the fleet but the remainder, about 1000 ships, were taken over by the government. Although half the ships were sunk, the earnings paid the expenses of the government.\n\nThe government in 1940 fled to London, where it had command of some colonies as well as the Dutch navy and merchant marine. When they arrived in London the Government in exile considered itself still neutral but found its desire for the liberation of the Netherlands coinciding with the war aims of the Allies. After the fall of France the Dutch Prime Minister Dirk Jan de Geer advocated negotiating a separate peace between the Netherlands and the Third Reich. Queen Wilhelmina fearing that the loss of the Dutch East Indies to Japan would be a term of any treaty vetoed any agreement. On 3 September 1940 the Queen dismissed her prime minister and replaced him with Pieter Sjoerds Gerbrandy, who worked with Churchill and Roosevelt on ways to smooth the path for an American entry. Aruba together with Curaçao the then world-class exporting oil refineries were the main suppliers of refined products to the Allies. Aruba became a British protectorate from 1940 to 1942 and a US protectorate from 1942 to 1945. On November 23, 1941, under an agreement with the Netherlands government-in-exile, the United States occupied Dutch Guiana to protect the bauxite mines.\n\nThe Czechoslovak government-in-exile was an informal title given to the Czechoslovak National Liberation Committee originally created by the former Czechoslovak President, Edvard Beneš in Paris in October 1939. Unsuccessful negotiations with France for diplomatic status, as well as the impending Nazi occupation of France, forced the Committee to withdraw to London in 1940. The body was eventually considered, by those countries that recognized it, as the legal continuation of the First Republic of Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe German invasion lasted only 18 days in 1939 before the Belgian army surrendered. The king remained behind, but the government escaped to France and then to England in 1940. Belgium was liberated in late 1944.\n\nBelgium had two holdings in Africa, the very large colony of the Belgian Congo and the mandate of Ruanda-Urundi. The Belgian Congo was not occupied and remained loyal to the Allies as a useful economic asset. The government in exile sold 3.4 million pounds of uranium ore from the Congo to the U.S. for the atomic bomb. Troops from the Belgian Congo participated in the East African Campaign against the Italians. The colonial \"Force Publique\" also served in other theatres alongside British forces.\n\nYugoslavia had a weak government in exile based in London that included King Peter. However, power inside the country was divided three ways between the Germans and their allies, and two Serbian resistance groups. The royalist anti-Communist Chetniks under Draža Mihailović, was nominally under the control of the government in exile. Chetniks were Serbians opposed to the Nazis but sometimes did collaborate with the Germans and Ustaša in their fierce guerrilla battles with the National Liberation Army, a Communist-controlled resistance headed by Josip Broz Tito. Tito's strength grew in 1943, and Mihailović and the monarchists fell far behind. Churchill reversed course in December 1943, ended his support for the forces of Mihailović, and backed instead Tito. The government in exile followed suite and supported Tito. Tito drove out the Germans in 1945, repudiated the government in exile, liquidated the Mihailovic forces. This allowed the formation of a Communist state of Yugoslavia that was independent of Moscow, with Tito in full control.\n\nBased in the Chinese city of Shanghai and later Chongqing the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea acted as the Korean government-in-exile from 13 April 1919 until the Republic of Korea was established in 1948.\n\nRegarding \"type\" of war outbreak (fourth column): \nA = Attack without a declaration of war, U = State of war emerged through ultimatum, WD = State of war emerged after formal declaration of war, D = Diplomatic breakdown leading to a state of war. In some cases a diplomatic breakdown later led to a state of war. Such cases are mentioned in the comments.\n\nMain source: Swedish encyklopedia \"Bonniers Lexikon\" 15 volumes from the 1960s, article \"Andra Världskriget\" (\"The Second World War\"), volume 1 of 15, table in columns 461-462. (Each page are in two columns, numbering of columns only)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6763495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6763495", "title": "Drilosphere", "text": "Drilosphere\n\nThe drilosphere is the part of the soil influenced by earthworm secretions, burrowing and castings. Therefore, it is the fraction of soil which has gone through the digestive tract of earthworms, or the lining of an earthworm burrow. The average thickness of the drilosphere (lining of an earthworm burrow) is 2mm, but it can be much wider (about 8mm) around the burrows of litter-feeding earthworms \n\nThrough the drilosphere, earthworms influence soil microbial communities, with effects on microbial processes related to soil organic matter and nutrient dynamics. A study of one soil type found that contained within the drilosphere was 40 per cent of the aerobic (and 13 per cent of anaerobic) nitrogen-fixing bacteria and 16 per cent of the denitrifiers. The drilosphere is generally richer in nitrogen, phosphorus, and humified organic material than the surrounding soil. This is probably because earthworms preferentially ingest plant residue such as leaf and root litter, or occasionally fungi.\n\nThe term was coined by M. B. Bouché.\n"}
{"id": "14944660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14944660", "title": "Edward Avery McIlhenny", "text": "Edward Avery McIlhenny\n\nEdward Avery \"Ned\" McIlhenny (29 March 1872 – 8 August 1949), son of Tabasco brand pepper sauce tycoon Edmund McIlhenny, was an American businessman, explorer, bird bander and conservationist. He established a private wildlife refuge around his family estate on Avery Island and helped in preserving a large coastal marshland in Louisiana as a bird refuge. He also introduced several exotic plants into Jungle Gardens, his private wildlife garden. McIlhenny is sometimes blamed for the introduction of exotic coypu into Louisiana where they are a major ecological problem although it is now known that he was neither the first to introduce their farming in the area or to release them into the wild.\n\nBorn in 1872 at Avery Island, Louisiana, where the families of his father Edmund McIlhenny and his mother Mary Eliza Avery had lived since 1813, McIlhenny was educated privately before attending Wyman's Military Academy in Illinois and Dr. Holbrook's Military School in Sing Sing (now Ossining), New York. In 1892, McIlhenny enrolled at Lehigh University, where he joined the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, but he dropped out of school to join Frederick Cook's 1894 Arctic expedition as an ornithologist. The expedition ended when their ship \"Miranda\" was wrecked off Greenland. In 1897, he financed his own Arctic expedition to Point Barrow, Alaska, where he leased an old government station, built to accommodate 100 men in an emergency and now owned by the Pacific Steam Whaling Company. During the famous rescue of a stranded Japanese whaling fleet, McIlhenny refused to house any of the rescued sailors except a few officers, including the Japanese adventurer and entrepreneur Jujiro Wada. He did provide cotton intended for taxidermic purposes for bedding.\n\nOn his return from the second Arctic expedition, he married Mary Givens Matthews, daughter of William Henry Matthews and Mary Campbell Given, on June 6, 1900, in New Orleans, Louisiana.\n\nIn 1898, Edward's elder brother John enlisted in the U.S. Army, eventually joining the Rough Riders. Edward took over the family business, McIlhenny's Son Corporation, which produced Tobasco, the hot-pepper sauce invented by his father some 30 years previously. Edward renamed the firm McIlhenny Company and began to expand, modernize, and standardized sauce production. He also experimented with new ways of promoting the world-famous product, such as advertising on radio.\n\nIn 1927, McIlhenny replaced the cork-topped Tabasco bottles used for nearly six decades with the now-ubiquitous screw-top bottle. He also redesigned the iconic Tabasco diamond logo trademark, largely creating the version known today.\n\nIn 1939, McIlhenny and the governor of Louisiana Richard Leche were sued for transgressions in the issue of a contract to McIlhenny for the landscaping of Louisiana State University campus. An amount of $27,351.01 was claimed but nobody was convicted after the Supreme Court held that special skills did not require competitive bidding and that services worth that amount had been delivered.\n\nIn a venture unrelated to Tabasco sauce, McIlhenny also operated a nutria (\"Myocastor coypus\") farm on Avery Island from 1938 until his death. The nutria introduction began in collaboration with Armand P. Daspit, director of the Louisiana Department of Conservation's Fur and Wild Life Division who approached McIlhenny after reading a bulletin on them from Buenos Aires. Another couple, Susan and Captain H. Conrad Brote began a nutria farm at St. Tammany Parish from around 1933. The captain served on merchant ships running between New Orleans and Buenos Aires. Their farm did well but there were no sales and they let out their nutria even before McIlhenny had begun his operations from locally acquired stock. Another nutria farm was also begun around the same time in St. Bernard Parish from where McIlhenny's first nutria were obtained in 1938. McIlhenny's nutria farm quickly grew too large for their one-acre pen and he was surprised both by their prolific breeding and the difficulties in confining them to their pens. On June 1, 1940 he freed about twenty nutria. In 1945 he released all his nutria claiming that it would help establish a fur industry in Louisiana. At the time, state and federal agencies advocated these releases. They believed nutria would provide a profitable new fur resource and help manage the spread of overly abundant plants such as water hyacinth and alligator weed.\n\nAfter these releases, the feral population became unmanageable, and its overwhelmingly harmful impact on Louisiana's wetlands became apparent. Nutria feed on vegetation that is crucial to sustaining Louisiana's coastline and protecting the state's sugarcane and rice fields. By 1960, the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries estimated the nutria population along coastal regions to exceed 20 million. The latest report from the U.S. Department of the Interior estimates that of Louisiana's coastal wetlands are currently being occupied by nutria.\n\nAfter the first Arctic expedition, he noticed on returning to Avery Island, a great decline in the number of egrets. This led him to conduct experiments in captive breeding. McIlhenny founded the Bird City wildfowl refuge on Avery Island around 1895, which helped to save the snowy egret from extinction. In 1910, McIlhenny and Charles Willis Ward bought of marshland and later an additional ; on November 4, 1911, they dedicated the marsh to the state of Louisiana as a wildlife refuge. McIlhenny persuaded Mrs Russell Sage to purchase of Marsh Island on July 22, 1912, and the Rockefeller Foundation to acquire an additional nearby. This created a bird reserve of about .\n\nMcIlhenny was keen to study the birds on his estate and began bird ringing in 1912, initially using his own bands made of tin and lead on ducks, but he received few recoveries. In February 1916, he began to use bands issued by the American Bird Banding Association. Over 22 years, he banded more than 189,298 birds. Based on his ringing studies he camed to the conclusion that sex-ratios in ducks were skewed in the wild with males surviving to a greater age than females. Later studies based on McIlhenny's ringing data have yielded considerable information on the movements of black vultures.\n\nIn 1941, he wrote on the potential extinction of the ivory-billed woodpecker, noting its presence in his estate on Avery Island and suggesting that the destruction of old growth forests was key to its demise. The subspecies of white-tailed deer on Avery Island was named after McIlhenny as \"Odocoileus virginianus mcilhennyi\" by Frederic W. Miller in 1928.\n\nMcIlhenny used his personal estate, known as Jungle Gardens, to propagate both Louisiana-native and imported plant varieties, including azaleas, irises, camellias, papyrus, and bamboo. He wrote numerous academic articles, mainly about birds and reptiles, oversaw the publication in English of two European botanical treatises, and edited Charles L. Jordan's unfinished manuscript \"The Wild Turkey and Its Hunting\" (a book often mistakenly attributed to McIlhenny). He supported the equality of women but suggested that there were evolutionary handicaps standing in the way. He also wrote books about alligators (in which he claimed to have shot the longest American alligator 19 feet long), egrets, and African-American gospel music, including:\n\n\nMcIlhenny died in 1949, three years after suffering a debilitating stroke; he is buried on Avery Island. Today, Jungle Gardens and Bird City continue to serve as havens for bird and plant species; they are also popular tourist destinations. Furthermore, the nearly of coastal marshland he helped to set aside as wildfowl refuges continue to exist as state wildlife areas. McIlhenny's illustrated and written documentation of plant and animal life on Avery Island was donated as a collection to Louisiana State University. The E. A. McIlhenny Collection of natural history books at Louisiana State University is named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "258963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=258963", "title": "Fernando de Noronha", "text": "Fernando de Noronha\n\nFernando de Noronha () is an archipelago of 21 islands and islets in the Atlantic Ocean, offshore from the Brazilian coast. The archipelago's name is a corruption of the name of the Portuguese merchant Fernão de Loronha, to whom it was given by the Portuguese crown for services rendered regarding wood imported from Brazil. Only the homonymous main island is inhabited; it has an area of and a population estimated at 2,718 in 2012. The archipelago's total area is .\n\nAdministratively, the islands are a unique case in Brazil of a special \"state district\" () that is not part of any municipality and is administered directly by the government of the state of Pernambuco (despite being closer to the state of Rio Grande do Norte). The state district's jurisdiction also includes the very remote Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago, located northeast of Fernando de Noronha. 70% of the islands' area were established in 1988 as a national maritime park.\n\nIn 2001 UNESCO designated it as a World Heritage Site because of the importance of its environment. Its time zone is all year round. The local population and travelers can get to Noronha by plane from Recife or Natal. An \"environmental preservation\" daily fee is charged from tourists upon arrival by Pernambuco State administration, while another fee is paid once to have access to the National Park attractions.\n\nThe islands of this archipelago are the visible parts of a range of submerged mountains. It consists of 21 islands, islets and rocks of volcanic origin. The main island has an area of , being long and wide at its maximum. The base of this enormous volcanic formation is below the surface. The volcanic rocks are of variable though mainly silica-undersaturated character with basanite, nephelinite and phonolite among the lava types found. The main island, from which the group gets its name, makes up 91% of the total area; the islands of Rata, Sela Gineta, Cabeluda and São José, together with the islets of Leão and Viúva make up the rest. The central upland of the main island is called the Quixaba.\n\nThe United Nations Environment Programme lists 15 possible endemic plant species, including species of the genera \"Capparis noronhae\" (2 species), \"Ceratosanthes noronhae\" (3 species), \"Cayaponia noronhae\" (2 species), \"Moriordica noronhae,\" \"Cereus noronhae\", \"Palicourea noronhae\", \"Guettarda noronhae\", \"Bumelia noronhae\", \"Physalis noronhae\", and \"Ficus noronhae\".\n\nThe islands have two endemic birds — the Noronha elaenia \"(Elaenia ridleyana)\" and the Noronha vireo \"(Vireo gracilirostris)\". Both are present on the main island; Noronha vireo is also present on Ilha Rata. In addition there is an endemic subspecies of eared dove, \"Zenaida auriculata noronha\". Subfossil remains of an extinct endemic rail have also been found. The archipelago is also an important site for breeding seabirds. An endemic sigmodontine rodent, \"Noronhomys vespuccii\", mentioned by Amerigo Vespucci, is now extinct. The islands have two endemic reptiles, the Noronha wormlizard, \"Amphisbaena ridleyi\", and the Noronha skink, \"Trachylepis atlantica\".\n\nThe life above and below sea is the main attraction of the island. Sea turtles, cetaceans (most common among these are spinner dolphins and humpback whales, followed by many others such as pantropical spotted dolphins, short-finned pilot whales, melon-headed whales), albatrosses, and many other species are frequently observed.\n\nThe climate is tropical, with two well-defined seasons for rainfall, if not temperature. The rainy season lasts from February to July; the rest of the year sees little rain. The temperature ranges, both diurnal and monthly, are unusually slight.\n\nMany controversies mark the discovery of the archipelago by Europeans. At least three names – \"São Lourenço\", \"São João\", and \"Quaresma\" – have been associated with the island around the time of its discovery. \n\nBased on the written record, Fernando de Noronha island was discovered on August 10, 1503, by a Portuguese expedition, organized and financed by a private commercial consortium headed by the Lisbon merchant Fernão de Loronha. The expedition was under the overall command of captain Gonçalo Coelho and carried the Italian adventurer Amerigo Vespucci aboard, who wrote an account of it. The flagship of the expedition hit a reef and foundered near the island, and the crew and contents had to be salvaged. On Coelho's orders, Vespucci anchored at the island, and spent a week there, while the rest of the Coelho fleet went on south. In his letter to Soderini, Vespucci describes the uninhabited island and reports its name as the \"island of St. Lawrence\" (August 10 is the feast day of St. Lawrence; it was a custom of Portuguese explorations to name locations by the liturgical calendar). \n\nIts existence was reported to Lisbon sometime between then and January 16, 1504, when King Manuel I of Portugal issued a charter granting the \"island of St. John\" (\"São João\") as a hereditary captaincy to Fernão de Loronha. The date and new name in the charter has presented historians with a puzzle. As Vespucci did not return to Lisbon until September 1504, the discovery must have been earlier. Historians have hypothesized that a stray ship of the Coelho fleet, under an unknown captain, may have returned to the island (prob. on August 29, 1503, feast day of the beheading of St. John the Baptist) to collect Vespucci, did not find him or anyone else there, and went back to Lisbon by itself with the news. (Vespucci in his letter, claims he left the island August 18, 1503, and upon his arrival in Lisbon a year later, on September 7, 1504, the people of Lisbon were surprised, as they \"had been told\" (presumably by the earlier captain?) that his ship had been lost.) The captain who returned to Lisbon with the news (and the St. John name) is unknown. (Some have speculated this captain was Loronha himself, the chief financier of this expedition, but that is highly unlikely.)\n\nThis account, reconstructed from the written record, is severely marred by the cartographic record. An island, named \"Quaresma\", looking very much like Fernando de Noronha island, appears in the Cantino planisphere. The Cantino map was composed by an anonymous Portuguese cartographer, and completed before November 1502, well before the Coelho expedition even set out. This has led to speculation that the island was discovered by a previous expedition. However, there is no consensus on which expedition that might have been. The name \"Quaresma\" means Lent, suggesting it must have been discovered in March or early April, which does not correspond well with the known expeditions. There is also a mysterious red island to the left of Quaresma in the Cantino map that does not fit with Fernando de Noronha island. Some have explained these anomalies away by reading \"quaresma\" as \"anaresma\" (meaning unknown, but sidesteps the Lent timing), and proposing that the red island is just an accidental inkblot.\nAssuming Quaresma is indeed Fernando de Noronha, then who discovered it? One proposal is that it was discovered by a royal Portuguese mapping expedition that was sent out in May 1501, commanded by an unknown captain (possibly André Gonçalves) and also accompanied by Amerigo Vespucci. According to Vespucci, this expedition returned to Lisbon in September 1502, just on time to influence the final composition of the Cantino map. Unfortunately, Vespucci does \"not\" report discovering this island then – indeed he is quite clear that the first time he (and his fellow sailors) saw the island was on the 1503 Coelho expedition. However, there is a letter written by an Italian saying that a ship arrived \"from the land of Parrots\" in Lisbon on July 22, 1502 (three months before Vespucci). This could be a stray ship from the mapping expedition that returned prematurely, or another expedition altogether, about which we have no information. The timing of its reputed arrival (July 1502), makes it possible that it stumbled on the island sometime in March 1502, on the homeward voyage, well within Lent. \n\nA third possible (but unlikely) theory is that the island was discovered already in 1500, shortly after the discovery of Brazil by the Second India Armada under Pedro Alvares Cabral. After his brief landfall at Porto Seguro, Cabral dispatched a supply ship under either Gaspar de Lemos or André Gonçalves (sources conflict) back to Lisbon, to report the discovery. This returning supply ship would have returned north along the Brazilian coast and might have come across Fernando de Noronha island, and reported its existence in Lisbon by July 1500. However, this contradicts the Quaresma name, since the returning supply ship was sailing well after Lent.\n\nA fourth (but also unlikely) possibility is that it was discovered by the Third India Armada of João da Nova, which set out from Lisbon in March or April 1501, and arrived back in September 1502, also in time to influence the Cantino map. Chronicler Gaspar Correia asserts that on the outward voyage, the Third Armada made a stop on the Brazilian coast around Cape Santo Agostinho. Two other chroniclers (João de Barros and Damião de Góis) do not mention a landfall, but do report they discovered an island (which they believe to be identified as Ascension island, but this is not certain). So it is possible that the Third Armada may indeed have discovered Fernando de Noronha island on their outward leg. However, the timing is very tight: Easter landed on April 11, 1501, while the estimated departure date of the Third Armada from Lisbon ranges from March 5 to April 15, not leaving enough time to reach those environs within Lent.\n\nAs a result of these anomalies, some modern historians have proposed that Fernando de Noronha is \"not\" depicted on the 1502 Cantino map at all. Instead, they have proposed that Quaresma island and the accompanying red \"inkblot\" are in fact the Rocas Atoll, slightly misplaced on the map. This reserves the discovery of Fernando de Noronha island itself as indeed on August 10, 1503, by the Gonçalo Coelho expedition, as originally reported by Vespucci.\n\nThe transition of the name from \"São João\" to \"Fernando de Noronha\" was probably just natural usage. A royal letter dated May 20, 1559, to descendants of the Loronha family, still refers to the island by its official name of \"ilha de São João\"., but already in other places, e.g. the logbook of Martim Afonso de Sousa in the 1530s, it was referred to as the \"island of Fernão de Noronha\" (\"Noronha\" being a common misspelling of \"Loronha\"). The informal name eventually displaced the official name.\n\nThe Lisbon merchant Fernão de Loronha held not only Fernando de Noronha island as a hereditary captaincy but also (from 1503 to around 1512) a commercial monopoly on trade in Brazil. Between 1503 and 1512, Noronha's agents set up a string of warehouses (\"feitorias\") along the Brazilian coast, and engaged in trade with the indigenous peoples in Brazil for brazilwood, a native red dye wood highly valued by European clothmakers. Fernando de Noronha island was the central collection point of this network. Brazilwood, continuously harvested by the coastal Indians and delivered to the various coastal warehouses, was shipped to the central warehouse on Fernando de Noronha island, which was intermittently visited by a larger transport ship that would carry the collected loads back to Europe. After the expiration of Loronha's commercial charter in 1512, the organization of the brazilwood enterprise was taken over by the Portuguese crown, but Loronha and his descendents retained private ownership of Fernando de Noronha island itself as a hereditary captaincy, at least down to the 1560s.\n\nCaptain Henry Foster stopped at Fernando de Noronha during his scientific survey expedition as commander of HMS \"Chanticleer\", which had set out in 1828. As well as surveying coasts and ocean currents, Foster used a Kater invariable pendulum to make observations on gravity. He took the island as the point of junction of his double line of longitudes setting out his survey. He was given considerable assistance by the Governor of Fernando Noronha who let Foster use part of his own house for the pendulum experiments. The longitude of Rio de Janeiro taken by Foster was among those on one side of a significant discrepancy, which meant that the charts of South America were in doubt.\n\nTo resolve this, the Admiralty instructed Captain Robert FitzRoy to command on a survey expedition. One of its essential tasks was a stop at Fernando Noronha to confirm its exact longitude, using the 22 chronometers on board the ship to give the precise time of observations. They arrived at the island in the late evening of 19 February 1832, anchoring at midnight. On 20 February FizRoy landed a small party to take the observations, despite difficulties caused by heavy surf, then sailed on for Bahia, Brazil that evening.\n\nDuring the day, the island was visited by the naturalist Charles Darwin, who was one of the Beagle's passengers. He took notes for his book on geology. He wrote about admiring the woods: \n\"The whole island is one forest, & this is so thickly intertwined that it requires great exertion to crawl along. — The scenery was very beautiful, & large Magnolias & Laurels & trees covered with delicate flowers ought to have satisfied me. — But I am sure all the grandeur of the Tropics has not yet been seen by me. — We had no gaudy birds, No humming birds. No large flowers\".\n\nHis experiences on Fernando de Noronha were recorded in his journal, later published as \"The Voyage of the Beagle\". He also included a short description of the island in his 1844 \"Geological Observations on the Volcanic Islands visited during the voyage of H.M.S. Beagle\".\n\nThe island was also used as a penal colony in the 19th century.\n\nIn the late 18th century, the first prisoners were sent to Fernando de Noronha. A prison was built. In 1897 the government of the state of Pernambuco took possession of the prison. Between 1938 and 1945, Fernando de Noronha was a political prison. The former governor of Pernambuco, Miguel Arraes, was incarcerated there. In 1957 the prison was closed and the archipelago was visited by President Juscelino Kubitschek.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, the British arrived to provide technical cooperation in telegraphy (\"The South American Company\"). Later the French came with the \"French Cable\" and the Italians with \"Italcable\".\n\nIn 1942, during World War II, the archipelago was made a Federal territory, which included Rocas Atoll and Saint Peter and Paul Rocks. The government sent political and ordinary prisoners to the local prison.\n\nAn airport was constructed in September 1942 by the United States Army Air Forces Air Transport Command for the Natal-Dakar air route. It provided a transoceanic link between Brazil and French West Africa for cargo, transiting aircraft and personnel during the Allies campaign in Africa. Brazil transferred the airport to the jurisdiction of the United States Navy on 5 September 1944. After the end of the war, the administration of the airport was transferred back to the Brazilian Government. Fernando de Noronha Airport is served by daily flights from Recife and Natal on the Brazilian coast.\n\nIn 1988, Brazil designated approximately 70% of the archipelago as a maritime national park, with the goal of preserving the land and sea environment. On October 5, 1988, the Federal Territory was dissolved and added to the state of Pernambuco (except Rocas Atoll, which was added to the state of Rio Grande do Norte).\n\nToday Fernando de Noronha's economy depends on tourism, restricted by the limitations of its delicate ecosystem. In addition to the historical interest noted above, the archipelago has been the subject of the attention of various scientists dedicated to the study of its flora, fauna, geology, etc. The jurisdiction is considered to be a separate \"entity\" by the DX Century Club, and so is visited rather often by amateur radio operators.\n\nIn 2001, UNESCO declared Fernando de Noronha, with Rocas Atoll, a World Heritage Site. It cited the following reasons: \n\nIn 2009, Air France Flight 447 disappeared off the northeast coast of Brazil. It was presumed to have crashed into the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Fernando de Noronha. Rescue and recovery operations were launched from this island.\n\nMost of the original large trees were cut down in the 19th century, when the island was used as a prison, for firewood and to keep the prisoners from hiding and making rafts.\n\nAlso, exotic species have been introduced:\n\n\nFrom these, the domestic cat and the tegu lizard have become invasive.\n\nThe island is divided between the Fernando de Noronha Marine National Park and the Fernando de Noronha Environmental Protection Area. The latter covers the urban, tourist area.\n\nTourism including dolphin watching, diving and charter fishing comprise the majority of the island’s economy.\n\nThe archipelago of Fernando de Noronha in 2005 had a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of R$22,802,000 and a per capita income of R$10,001. The Human Development Index (HDI) district's state was estimated at 0.862 (PNUD/2000). The only banking center in the archipelago is a branch of Banco Santander Brasil. There are one or two additional ATMs around the main island.\n\nThe beaches of Fernando de Noronha are promoted for tourism and recreational diving. The most popular ones include Baía do Sancho, Pig Bay, Dolphins Bay, Sueste Bay and Praia do Leão. Due to the South Equatorial Current that pushes warm water from Africa to the island, diving to depths of does not require a wetsuit. The visibility underwater can reach up to .\n\nThe part of the island facing the mainland has the beaches in the following order: Baía do Sancho, Baía dos Porcos, Praia dos Americanos, Praia do Boldró, Praia da Conceição, Praia do Meio and Praia do Cachorro. The part of the island facing the Atlantic Ocean has only 03 beaches: Praia do Leão, Praia do Sueste and Praia do Atalaia. A great way to get to know the island is to walk from Praia dos Americanos, pass by Praia do Boldró, Praia da Conceição, Praia do Meio and finish the walking at Praia do Cachorro.\n\nThe island is served by Gov. Carlos Wilson Airport with regular flights to Natal and Recife.\n\n\n\nTourism\n\nVideos\n"}
{"id": "1261142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1261142", "title": "Five Trees", "text": "Five Trees\n\n\"Five Trees\" in Paradise is a mysterious allegory or concept from famous Coptic Gospel of Thomas NHC 2: (gnostic library from Nag Hammadi in Egypt) 19th saying/logia of Jesus and other sources of religious mythology.\n\nBlatz Translation: (19) Jesus said: Blessed is he who was before he came into being. If you become disciples to me (and) listen to my words, these stones will minister to you. For you have five trees in Paradise which do not change, either in summer or in winter, and their leaves do not fall. He who knows them shall not taste of death.\n\n\"Blessed is he who was before he came into being,\" is similar to other enigmatic statements commonly found in mysticism across cultures, referring to the benefits of self-awareness (knowledge of one's true nature) before development of ego identity beliefs. \"If you...listen..., these stones will minister to you,\" may refer to both \"listening\" to the true self within – which would allow one to accurately trace internal/cause from observing external/effects (physical reality/stones), or that only through this \"self-awareness\" are we able to understand Jesus' symbolic language and master external reality. The word, tree, is a creative (manifesting) symbol in Jewish and Christian sacred texts, descriptive of both ingesting (taking in) fruits and/or producing fruits (Genesis and Four Gospels). \n\nIn the Acts of Thomas, Chapter 27, during an anointing ceremony, the apostle implores, \"Come, elder of the five members of mind, communicate with these young men;\" the five words for 'mind' according to Theodore Bar Konai are the equivalents of \"hauna\" (sanity), \"mad'a\" (reason), \"re'yana\" (mindfulness), \"mahshebhatha\" (imagination), \"tar'itha\" (intention) – considered the Five Manifestations of the Father of Greatness which may provide the clue to the meaning of the five trees. These five would therefore be the causal factors in the experience of the Real.\n\nMarvin Meyer writes: \"The \"five trees\" in paradise are mentioned frequently in gnostic texts, ordinarily without explanation or elaboration. In Manichaean Psalm Book 161,17-29, it is said that various features of life and faith are put together in groups of five. This section opens with the statement, 'For [five] are the trees that are in paradise ... in summer and winter.' On the trees in paradise according to Genesis, see Genesis 2:9.\"\n\nAccording to the Naassenes, paradise was the human head. It has been suggested that the \"five trees\" may parallel the five human senses which produce one's internal world view and belief system – knowledge of which is a requirement for purification and thus enlightenment or return to paradise/unity. However, the body's five senses – more synonymous with lower level egoism and learned misperception, would more likely be referenced as an impediment to reunion with the divine.\n\nThe \"five trees\" also could be interpreted as referring to the Five Worlds of the mystical Jewish Kabbalah: Asiyah, Yetzirah, Beriah, Atzilut & Adam Kadmon – descriptive of dimensional levels related to the soul's progress toward unity with or return to the Creator. Generally understood as developmental levels of intentionality related to man's natural \"desire to receive\". The methodology for accomplishing this is considered the secret Science of Kabbalah – how to receive by correcting intention until a state of unity with pure altruism is achieved. One then becomes pure Creator (experience of the divine). Related to this, the concept of \"reality as a mirror of desire\" (pure desire = perfect results/impure desire = negative results), would correlate to the tree symbol as \"productive\" of paradise.\n\nThese developmental levels are in parallel with five Partsufim. And these are same as soul levels: Nefesh, Ruah, Neshama, Haya and Yehida. Possibly these important Judaico-Biblical concepts are most similar to \"five trees\".\n\nAs noted from a Hindu reference page, which may also relate to The Gospel of Thomas's reference of the Five Trees, are the five trees of Indra's paradise. There is a theory that Jesus traveled to India during his \"missing\" years from in the Bible. This could support that theory.\n\nThe five trees (panca-vrksa) which adorn Lord Indra's garden (Nandana) in his paradise (Svarga) are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9343687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9343687", "title": "Global Emissions InitiAtive", "text": "Global Emissions InitiAtive\n\nGlobal Emissions InitiAtive (GEIA) is a community effort dedicated to atmospheric emissions information exchange and competence building. GEIA was created in 1990 under the (IGBP) and is a joint IGAC / iLEAPS / AIMES activity. GEIA is governed by an international steering committee and hosts biennial conferences.\n\ninformation\n\n\n"}
{"id": "579026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579026", "title": "Gravitational potential", "text": "Gravitational potential\n\nIn classical mechanics, the gravitational potential at a location is equal to the work (energy transferred) per unit mass that would be needed to move the object from a fixed reference location to the location of the object. It is analogous to the electric potential with mass playing the role of charge. The reference location, where the potential is zero, is by convention infinitely far away from any mass, resulting in a negative potential at any finite distance.\n\nIn mathematics, the gravitational potential is also known as the Newtonian potential and is fundamental in the study of potential theory. It may also be used for solving the electrostatic and magnetostatic fields generated by uniformly charged or polarized ellipsoidal bodies.\n\nThe gravitational potential (\"V\") at a location is the gravitational potential energy (\"U\") at that location per unit mass:\n\nwhere \"m\" is the mass of the object. Potential energy is equal (in magnitude, but negative) to the work done by the gravitational field moving a body to its given position in space from infinity. If the body has a mass of 1 unit, then the potential energy to be assigned to that body is equal to the gravitational potential. So the potential can be interpreted as the negative of the work done by the gravitational field moving a unit mass in from infinity.\n\nIn some situations, the equations can be simplified by assuming a field that is nearly independent of position. For instance, in a region close to the surface of the Earth, the gravitational acceleration, \"g\", can be considered constant. In that case, the difference in potential energy from one height to another is, to a good approximation, linearly related to the difference in height:\n\nThe potential \"V\" of a unit mass \"m\" at a distance \"x\" from a point mass of mass \"M\" can be defined as the work \"W\" that needs to be done by an external agent to bring the unit mass in from infinity to that point:\n\nwhere \"G\" is the gravitational constant, and F is the gravitational force. The potential has units of energy per unit mass, e.g., J/kg in the MKS system. By convention, it is always negative where it is defined, and as \"x\" tends to infinity, it approaches zero.\n\nThe gravitational field, and thus the acceleration of a small body in the space around the massive object, is the negative gradient of the gravitational potential. Thus the negative of a negative gradient yields positive acceleration toward a massive object. Because the potential has no angular components, its gradient is\nwhere x is a vector of length \"x\" pointing from the point mass toward the small body and formula_5 is a unit vector pointing from the point mass toward the small body. The magnitude of the acceleration therefore follows an inverse square law:\n\nThe potential associated with a mass distribution is the superposition of the potentials of point masses. If the mass distribution is a finite collection of point masses, and if the point masses are located at the points x, ..., x and have masses \"m\", ..., \"m\", then the potential of the distribution at the point x is\n\nIf the mass distribution is given as a mass measure \"dm\" on three-dimensional Euclidean space R, then the potential is the convolution of −G/|r| with \"dm\". In good cases this equals the integral\nwhere |x − r| is the distance between the points x and r. If there is a function \"ρ\"(r) representing the density of the distribution at r, so that , where \"dv\"(r) is the Euclidean volume element, then the gravitational potential is the volume integral\n\nIf \"V\" is a potential function coming from a continuous mass distribution \"ρ\"(r), then \"ρ\" can be recovered using the Laplace operator, Δ:\nThis holds pointwise whenever \"ρ\" is continuous and is zero outside of a bounded set. In general, the mass measure \"dm\" can be recovered in the same way if the Laplace operator is taken in the sense of distributions. As a consequence, the gravitational potential satisfies Poisson's equation. See also Green's function for the three-variable Laplace equation and Newtonian potential.\n\nThe integral may be expressed in terms of known transcendental functions for all ellipsoidal shapes, including the symmetrical and degenerate ones. These include the sphere, where the three semiaxes are equal; the oblate (see reference ellipsoid) and prolate spheroids, where two semiaxes are equal; the degenerate ones where one semiaxis is infinite (the elliptical and circular cylinder) and the unbounded sheet where two semiaxes are infinite. All these shapes are widely used in the applications of the gravitational potential integral (apart from the constant \"G\", with 𝜌 being a constant charge density) to electromagnetism.\n\nA spherically symmetric mass distribution behaves to an observer completely outside the distribution as though all of the mass was concentrated at the center, and thus effectively as a point mass, by the shell theorem. On the surface of the earth, the acceleration is given by so-called standard gravity \"g\", approximately 9.8 m/s, although this value varies slightly with latitude and altitude: The magnitude of the acceleration is a little larger at the poles than at the equator because Earth is an oblate spheroid.\n\nWithin a spherically symmetric mass distribution, it is possible to solve Poisson's equation in spherical coordinates. Within a uniform spherical body of radius \"R\" and density ρ, the gravitational force \"g\" inside the sphere varies linearly with distance \"r\" from the center, giving the gravitational potential inside the sphere, which is\n\nwhich differentiably connects to the potential function for the outside of the sphere (see the figure at the top).\n\nIn general relativity, the gravitational potential is replaced by the metric tensor. When the gravitational field is weak and the sources are moving very slowly compared to light-speed, general relativity reduces to Newtonian gravity, and the metric tensor can be expanded in terms of the gravitational potential.\n\nThe potential at a point x is given by\n\nThe potential can be expanded in a series of Legendre polynomials. Represent the points x and r as position vectors relative to the center of mass. The denominator in the integral is expressed as the square root of the square to give\n\nV(\\mathbf{x}) &= - \\int_{\\mathbb{R}^3} \\frac{G}{ \\sqrt\n\nCompare the gravity at these locations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41043078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41043078", "title": "Green House Data", "text": "Green House Data\n\nGreen House Data is a data center services provider headquartered in Cheyenne, Wyoming, United States. Cheyenne is home to a campus with 45,000 square feet of data center space, as well as administrative and technical support offices. The company has additional data center locations in Washington, Colorado, Oregon, Georgia, Texas, New Jersey, and New York, with sales and marketing offices in Laramie and in Denver, Colorado.\n\nIn 2007, three friends hatched the idea for a data center powered exclusively by renewable energy over coffee and soon after began the process of retrofitting a former office building to provision 3000 square feet of colocation space. By March 2012, Green House Data had doubled the footprint in the Cheyenne location, added cloud hosting products, and expanded its footprint to the west coast. In December 2013, an east coast expansion was announced, and by August 2013, the company had broken ground on a new facility in Cheyenne. The second Cheyenne location officially opened on July 30, 2014. In September 2014, 1547 Critical Systems Realty and Green House Data announced that the company would be an anchor tenant in a redevelopment at 1 Ramland Road in Orangeburg, New York.\n\nIn April 2015, the company acquired FiberCloud, a Seattle, Washington based provider of colocation, cloud hosting, and other data center services. With this acquisition, Green House Data added three data centers in Washington state, as well as nearly 20 employees and several hundred customers.\n\nIn April 2017, the company acquired Cirracore, a cloud-focused infrastructure provider based in Atlanta, Georgia. In November 2017, the company acquired Ajubeo, a cloud hosting service provider based in Denver.\n\nGreen House Data announced a merger via acquisition of Infront Consulting Group in May of 2018, expanding operations to Toronto and Las Vegas, as well as other satellite sites, while adding over 30 IT consulting staff focusing on Microsoft Azure, cloud automation, and IT consulting.\n\nThe company is part of a new surge in data center construction in the Cheyenne region and across the Rocky Mountains. Cheyenne has been ranked as a top 5 location for data centers, with Microsoft, Echostar, and the National Center for Atmospheric Research all operating facilities in the city.\n\nIn addition, Green House Data's most facility in Orangeburg represents entry into the Rockland County market, which is just beginning to emerge as a new data center cluster. It is home to facilities operated by both Bloomberg L.P. and Verizon.\n\nEverett and Bellingham, Washington represent markets on the I-5 Corridor have been historically underserved.\n\nAs a whole, the data center industry has been highly criticized for heavy electrical use, and in recent years has actively tried to reduce power consumption by improving facility design and increasing server virtualization. As a key element of their business model, Green House Data purchases renewable energy credits, or RECs, for wind power and documents purchases with the EPA's Green Power Partnership. In 2013, Green House Data was part of EPA's \"Leadership Club\" for sustainable power purchases. A common measure for data center power consumption is Power usage effectiveness, often abbreviated PUE.\n\nBeginning in 2014, Green House Data was the first company to participate in WyoRECs, the first renewable energy credit program based out of Wyoming.\n\nIn April 2015, Green House Data joined the EPA's Top 30 Tech & Telecom list of the largest green power users, retiring over 8 million kilowatt-hours (kWh) of green power annually. By 2017, the company moved up 5 places on the list, retiring 20,270,000 kWhs.\n\nNPR's All Things Considered called Green House Data's energy efficiency an \"obsession.\"\n\nIn July 2011, the company's cloud and colocation facilities achieved SSAE 16 Type II Compliance. Additionally, in 2012, Green House Data achieved HIPAA IT compliance.\n\nGreen House Data operates a total of ten data center facilities in nine geographic regions. There are cloud and colocation data centers in Atlanta, GA, Cheyenne, WY, Seattle, WA, Everett, WA, and Bellingham, WA and cloud data centers in Dallas, TX, Denver, CO, Orangeburg, NY, and Portland, OR. Each location is carrier neutral, fully compliant to HIPAA and SSAE 16 Type II standards, and comes with guaranteed uptime service level agreements. In March 2016, the company announced a \"Hear from a Human\" technical support service guarantee, which Fortune called more characteristic of a \"boutique cloud.\"\n\nThe Seattle facility is located within the Westin Building, the 3rd largest carrier hotel in the United States. The Westin Building data center consists of the 18th, 19th, and 32nd floors, with participation in the Seattle Internet Exchange.\n\nIn late 2017, Green House Data acquired Assuritive, a Disaster Recovery as a Service provider. In November 2017, Green House Data acquired Ajubeo, a Denver-based cloud hosting service provider, bringing the company's total cloud node locations up to ten. Earlier that year, Green House Data acquired Cirracore, an Atlanta-based provider of enterprise cloud services, expanding the company's reach to the southeast United States.\n\nGreen House Data acquired FiberCloud, a West Coast Data Center company, in April 2015 gaining three Washington facilities in Seattle, Everett, and Bellingham.\n\nIn February 2015, Green House Data was recognized in the Top 500 MSP by CRN Magazine for the Second Consecutive Year\n\nIn October 2014, Green House Data was recognized as a Top 100 Cloud Services Provider by Talkin' Cloud, making the list for the second consecutive time. In February 2014, Green House Data was recognized as a Top 500 Managed Service Provider by CRN Magazine. In 2014, Green House Data became the first B Corp in Wyoming.\n\nGreen House Data CTO Cortney Thompson was interviewed as part of a Marketplace radio piece by Wyoming Public Media covering government IT departments moving to cloud services and data centers.\n\nIn August 2014, the State of Wyoming was announced as the first anchor tenant in Green House Data's second Cheyenne facility.\n"}
{"id": "43490373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43490373", "title": "Green River (Washington)", "text": "Green River (Washington)\n\nGreen River refers to two rivers in the US state of Washington:\n\n"}
{"id": "5024020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5024020", "title": "Inverse Faraday effect", "text": "Inverse Faraday effect\n\nThe inverse Faraday effect is the effect opposite to the Faraday effect. A static magnetization formula_1 is induced by an external oscillating electrical field with the frequency formula_2, which can be achieved with a high intensity laser pulse for example. The induced magnetization is proportional to the vector product of formula_3 and formula_4:\n\nformula_5\n\nFrom this equation we see that the circularly polarized light with the frequency formula_2 should induce a magnetization along the wave vector formula_7. Because formula_3 is in the vector product, left- and right-handed polarization waves should induce magnetization of opposite signs. \n\nThe induced magnetization is comparable to the saturated magnetization of the media.\n\n"}
{"id": "44855053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44855053", "title": "Le Règne Animal", "text": "Le Règne Animal\n\nLe Règne Animal (The Animal Kingdom) is the most famous work of the French naturalist Georges Cuvier. It sets out to describe the natural structure of the whole of the animal kingdom based on comparative anatomy, and its natural history. Cuvier divided the animals into four \"embranchements\" (\"Branches\", roughly corresponding to phyla), namely vertebrates, molluscs, articulated animals (arthropods and annelids), and zoophytes (cnidaria and other phyla).\n\nThe work appeared in four octavo volumes in 1817; a second edition in five volumes was brought out in 1829–1830 and a third, written by twelve \"disciples\" of Cuvier, in 1836–1849. In this classic work, Cuvier presented the results of his life's research into the structure of living and fossil animals. With the exception of the section on insects, in which he was assisted by his friend Pierre André Latreille, the whole of the work was his own. It was translated into English many times, often with substantial notes and supplementary material updating the book in accordance with the expansion of knowledge. It was also translated into German, Italian and other languages, and abridged in versions for children.\n\n\"Le Règne Animal\" was influential in being widely read, and in presenting accurate descriptions of groups of related animals, such as the living elephants and the extinct mammoths, providing convincing evidence for evolutionary change to readers including Charles Darwin, although Cuvier himself rejected the possibility of evolution.\n\nAs a boy, Georges Cuvier (1769-1832) read the Comte de Buffon's \"Histoire Naturelle\" from the previous century, as well as Linnaeus and Fabricius. He was brought to Paris by Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire in 1795, not long after the French Revolution. He soon became a professor of animal anatomy at the Musée National d'Histoire Naturelle, surviving changes of government from revolutionary to Napoleonic to monarchy. Essentially on his own he created the discipline of vertebrate palaeontology and the accompanying comparative method. He demonstrated that animals had become extinct.\n\nIn an earlier attempt to improve the classification of animals, Cuvier transferred the concepts of Antoine-Laurent de Jussieu's (1748-1836) method of natural classification, which had been presented in 1789 in \"Genera plantarum\", from botany to zoology. In 1795, from a \"fixist\" perspective (denying the possibility of evolution), Cuvier divided Linnaeus's two unsatisfactory classes (\"insects\" and \"worms\") into six classes of \"white-blooded animals\" or invertebrates: molluscs, crustaceans, insects and worms (differently understood), echinoderms and zoophytes. Cuvier divided the molluscs into three orders: cephalopods, gastropods and acephala. Still not satisfied, he continued to work on animal classification, culminating over twenty years later in the \"Règne Animal\".\n\nFor the \"Règne Animal\", using evidence from comparative anatomy and palaeontology—including his own observations—Cuvier divided the animal kingdom into four principal body plans. Taking the central nervous system as an animal's principal organ system which controlled all the other organ systems such as the circulatory and digestive systems, Cuvier distinguished four types of organisation of an animal's body:\n\n\nGrouping animals with these body plans resulted in four \"embranchements\" or branches (vertebrates, molluscs, the articulata that he claimed were natural (arguing that insects and annelid worms were related) and zoophytes (radiata)). This effectively broke with the mediaeval notion of the continuity of the living world in the form of the great chain of being. It also set him in opposition to both Saint-Hilaire and Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Lamarck claimed that species could transform through the influence of the environment, while Saint-Hilaire argued in 1820 that two of Cuvier's branches, the molluscs and radiata, could be united via various features, while the other two, articulata and vertebrates, similarly had parallels with each other. Then in 1830, Saint-Hilaire argued that these two groups could themselves be related, implying a single form of life from which all others could have evolved, and that Cuvier's four body plans were not fundamental.\n\n\nThe twelve \"disciples\" who contributed to the 3rd edition were Jean Victor Audouin (insects), Gerard Paul Deshayes (molluscs), Alcide d'Orbigny (birds), Antoine Louis Dugès (arachnids), Georges Louis Duvernoy (reptiles), Charles Léopold Laurillard (mammals in part), Henri Milne Edwards (crustaceans, annelids, zoophytes, and mammals in part), Francois Desire Roulin (mammals in part), Achille Valenciennes (fishes), Louis Michel Français Doyère (insects), Charles Émile Blanchard (insects, zoophytes) and Jean Louis Armand de Quatrefages de Bréau (annelids, arachnids etc.).\n\nThe work was illustrated with tables and plates (at the end of Volume IV) covering only some of the species mentioned. A much larger set of illustrations, said by Cuvier to be \"as accurate as they were elegant\" was published by the entomologist Félix Édouard Guérin-Méneville in his \"Iconographie du Règne Animal de G. Cuvier\", the nine volumes appearing between 1829 and 1844. The 448 quarto plates by Christophe Annedouche, Canu, Eugène Giraud, Lagesse, Lebrun, Vittore Pedretti, Plée and Smith illustrated some 6200 animals.\n\n\"Le Règne Animal\" was translated into languages including English, German and Italian.\n\nMany English translations and abridged versions were published and reprinted in the nineteenth century; records may be for the entire work or individual volumes, which were not necessarily dated, while old translations were often brought out in \"new\" editions by other publishers, making for a complex publication history. A translation was made by John Edward Gray and published by Whittaker, Treacher and Co. in 1824; another by Edward Griffith and others was published by G. B. Whittaker in 1827–1832 and many times reprinted (up to 2012 and eBook format); another by Henry MacMurtrie was published by G. Henderson in 1834–1837. A translation was made and published by the ornithologist William MacGillivray in Edinburgh in 1839–1840. Another version by Edward Blyth and others was published by William S. Orr and Co. in 1840. An abridged version by an \"experienced teacher\" was published by Longman, Brown, Green and Longman in London, and by Stephen Knapp in Coventry, in 1844. Kraus published an edition in New York in 1969. Other editions were brought out by H.G. Bohn in 1851 and W. Orr in 1854. An \"easy introduction to the study of the animal kingdom: according to the natural method of Cuvier\", together with examination questions on each chapter, was made by Annie Roberts and published in the 1850s by Thomas Varty.\n\nA German translation by H.R. Schinz was published by J.S. Cotta in 1821–1825; another was made by Friedrich Siegmund Voigt and published by Brockhaus.\n\nAn Italian translation by G. de Cristofori was published by Stamperia Carmignani in 1832.\n\nA Hungarian translation by Peter Vajda was brought out in 1841.\n\nEach section, such as on reptiles at the start of Volume II (and the entire work) is introduced with an essay on distinguishing aspects of their zoology. In the case of the reptiles, the essay begins with the observation that their circulation is so arranged that only part of the blood pumped by the heart goes through the lungs; Cuvier discusses the implications of this arrangement, next observing that they have a relatively small brain compared to the mammals and birds, and that none of them incubate their eggs.\n\nNext, Cuvier identifies the taxonomic divisions of the group, in this case four orders of reptiles, the chelonians (tortoises and turtles), saurians (lizards), ophidians (snakes) and batracians (amphibians, now considered a separate class of vertebrates), describing each group in a single sentence. Thus the batracians are said to have a heart with a single atrium, a naked body (with no scales), and to pass with age from being fish-like to being like a quadruped or biped.\n\nThere is then a section heading, in this case \"The first order of Reptiles, or The Chelonians\", followed by a three-page essay on their zoology, starting with the fact that their hearts have two atria. The structure then repeats at a lower taxonomic level, with what Cuvier notes is one of Linnaeus's genera, \"Testudo\", the tortoises, with five sub-genera. The first sub-genus comprises the land tortoises; their zoology is summed up in a paragraph, which observes that they have a domed carapace, with a solid bony support (the term being \"charpente\", commonly used of the structure of wooden beams that support a roof). He records that the legs are thick, with short digits joined for most of their length, five toenails on the forelegs, four on the hind legs.\n\nThen (on the ninth page) he arrives at the first species in the volume, the Greek tortoise, \"Testudo graeca\". It is summed up in a paragraph, Cuvier noting that it is the commonest tortoise in Europe, living in Greece, Italy, Sardinia and (he writes) apparently all round the Mediterranean. He then gives its distinguishing marks, with a highly domed carapace, raised scales boldly marked with black and yellow marbling, and at the posterior edge a bulge over the tail. He gives its size—rarely reaching a foot in length; notes that it lives on leaves, fruit, insects and worms; digs a hole in which to pass the winter; mates in spring, and lays 4 or 5 eggs like those of a pigeon. The species is illustrated with two plates.\n\nThe classification adopted by Cuvier to define the natural structure of the animal kingdom, including both living and fossil forms, was as follows, the list forming the structure of the \"Règne Animal\". Where Cuvier's group names correspond (more or less) to modern taxa, these are named, in English if possible, in parentheses. The table from the 1828 \"Penny Cyclopaedia\" indicates species that were thought to belong to each group in Cuvier's taxonomy. The four major divisions were known as \"embranchements\" (\"branches\").\n\n\nThe entomologist William Sharp Macleay, in his 1821 book \"Horae Entomologicae\" which put forward the short-lived \"Quinarian\" system of classification into 5 groups, each of 5 subgroups, etc., asserted that in the \"Règne Animal\" \"Cuvier was notoriously deficient in the power of legitimate and intuitive generalization in arranging the animal series\". The zoologist William John Swainson, also a Quinarian, added that \"no person of such transcendent talents and ingenuity, ever made so little use of his observations towards a natural arrangement as M. Cuvier.\"\n\nThe \"Magazine of Natural History\" of 1829 expressed surprise at the long interval between the first and second editions, surmising that there were too few scientific readers in France, apart from those in Paris itself; it notes that while the first volume was little changed, the treatment of fish was considerably altered in volume II, while the section on the Articulata was greatly enlarged (to two volumes, IV and V) and written by M. Latreille. It also expressed the hope that there would be an English equivalent of Cuvier's work, given the popularity of natural history resulting from the works of Thomas Bewick (\"A History of British Birds\" 1797–1804) and George Montagu (\"Ornithological Dictionary\", 1802). The same review covers Félix Édouard Guérin-Méneville's \"Iconographie du Règne Animal de M. le Baron Cuvier\", which offered illustrations of all Cuvier's genera (except for the birds).\n\nThe \"Foreign Review\" of 1830 broadly admired Cuvier's work, but disagreed with his classification. It commented that \"From the comprehensive nature of the \"Règne Animal\", embracing equally the structure and history of all the existing and extinct races of animals, this work may be viewed as an epitome of M. Cuvier's zoological labours; and it presents the best outline, which exists in any language, of the present state of zoology and comparative anatomy.\" The review continued less favourably, however, that \"We cannot help thinking that the science of comparative anatomy is now so far advanced, as to afford the means of distributing the animal kingdom on some more uniform and philosophical principles,—as on the modifications of those systems or functions which are most general in the animal economy\". The review argued that the vertebrate division relied on the presence of a vertebral column, \"a part of the organization of comparatively little importance in the economy\"; it found the basis of the mollusca on \"the general softness of the body\" no better; the choice of the presence of articulations no better either, in the third division; while in the fourth it points out that while the echinoderms may fit well into the chosen scheme, it did not apply \"to the entozoa, zoophyta, and infusoria, which constitute by much the greatest portion of this division.\" But the review notes that \"the general distribution of the animal kingdom established by M. Cuvier in this work, are founded on a more extensive and minute survey of the organization than had ever before been taken, and many of the most important distinctions among the orders and families are the result of his own researches.\"\n\nWriting in the \"Monthly Review\" of 1834, the pre-Darwinian evolutionist surgeon Sir William Lawrence commented that \"the \"Regne Animal\" of Cuvier is, in short, an abridged expression of the entire science. He carried the lights derived from his zoological researches into kindred but obscure parts of nature.\" Lawrence calls the work \"an arrangement of the animal kingdom nearly approaching to perfection; grounded on principles so accurate, that the place which any animal occupies in this scheme, already indicates the leading circumstances in its structure, economy, and habits.\"\n\nThe book was in the library of \"HMS Beagle\" for Charles Darwin's voyage. In \"The Origin of Species\" (1859), in a chapter on the difficulties facing the theory, Darwin comments that \"The expression of conditions of existence, so often insisted on by the illustrious Cuvier, is fully embraced by the principle of natural selection.\" Darwin continues, reflecting both on Cuvier's emphasis on the conditions of existence, and Jean-Baptiste Lamarck's theory of acquiring heritable characteristics from those Cuvieran conditions: \"For natural selection acts by either now adapting the varying parts of each being to its organic and inorganic conditions of life; or by having adapted them during long-past periods of time: the adaptations being aided in some cases by use and disuse, being slightly affected by the direct action of the external conditions of life, and being in all cases subjected to the several laws of growth. Hence, in fact, the law of the Conditions of Existence is the higher law; as it includes, through the inheritance of former adaptations, that of Unity of Type.\"\n\nThe palaeontologist Philippe Taquet wrote that \"the \"Règne Animal\" was an attempt to create a complete inventory of the animal kingdom and to formulate a natural classification underpinned by the principles of the 'correlation of parts'..\" He adds that with the book \"Cuvier introduced clarity into natural history, accurately reproducing the actual ordering of animals.\" Taquet further notes that while Cuvier rejected evolution, it was paradoxically \"the precision of his anatomical descriptions and the importance of his research on fossil bones\", showing for instance that mammoths were extinct elephants, that enabled later naturalists including Darwin to argue convincingly that animals had evolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "27173077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27173077", "title": "Lemurs of Madagascar (book)", "text": "Lemurs of Madagascar (book)\n\nLemurs of Madagascar is a 2010 reference work and field guide for the lemurs of Madagascar, giving descriptions and biogeographic data for the known species. The primary contributor is Russell Mittermeier, president of Conservation International, and the cover art and illustrations were drawn by Stephen D. Nash. Currently in its third edition, the book provides details about all known lemur species, general information about lemurs and their history, and also helps travelers identify species they may encounter. Four related pocket field guides have also been released, containing color illustrations of each species, miniature range maps, and species checklists.\n\nThe first edition was reviewed favorably in the \"International Journal of Primatology\", \"Conservation Biology\", and \"Lemur News\". Reviewers, including Alison Jolly, praised the book for its meticulous coverage of each species, numerous high-quality illustrations, and engaging discussion of lemur topics, including conservation, evolution, and the recently extinct subfossil lemurs. Each agreed that the book was an excellent resource for a wide audience, including ecotourists and lemur researchers. A lengthy review of the second edition was published in the \"American Journal of Primatology\", where it received similar favorable comments, plus praise for its updates and enhancements. The third edition was reviewed favorably in \"Lemur News\"; the reviewer praised the expanded content of the book, but was concerned that the edition was not as portable as its predecessors.\n\nThe first edition identified 50 lemur species and subspecies, compared to 71 in the second edition and 101 in the third. The taxonomy promoted by these books has been questioned by researchers, such as Ian Tattersall, who view these growing numbers of lemur species as insufficiently justified inflation of species numbers (taxonomic inflation).\n\n\"Lemurs of Madagascar\" is published by Conservation International (CI), a non-profit conservation organization headquartered near Washington, D.C., and is intended as a field guide that identifies all of the known lemur species from Madagascar. The first edition of \"Lemurs of Madagascar\" was published in 1994 and contained 356 pages. The 520-page second edition was published in 2006 and is now officially out of print, having been followed by the 767-page third edition in the fall of 2010.\n\nFor all three editions, Stephen D. Nash, winner of the 2004 American Society of Primatologists President's Award, has been the illustrator and front cover artist. The lead author for all three editions is Russell A. Mittermeier, president of CI and a well-published primatologist, herpetologist and biological anthropologist. In the first edition, four other authors were also listed: Ian Tattersall, a curator in the Division of Anthropology at the American Museum of Natural History; William R. Konstant, the Director of Conservation and Science at the Houston Zoo; David M. Meyers, a researcher and conservationist who has worked with CI, the World Wildlife Fund, and other conservation and development organizations; and Roderic B. Mast, marine biologist, primatologist, and the founding Director of CI's Madagascar Program.\n\nThe second edition was authored by Mittermeier, Konstant, Tattersall, and Meyers, as well as seven new authors: Frank Hawkins, the Technical Director for CI in Madagascar; Edward E. Louis, Jr., the conservation geneticist for Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo's Center for Conservation and Research; Olivier Langrand, CI's Senior Vice President for Africa and Madagascar; Jonah H. Ratsimbazafy, the Scientific Coordinator for the Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust - Madagascar Program; Rodin Rasoloarison, a field researcher and research coordinator at the German Primate Center; Jörg U. Ganzhorn, professor in the Department of Animal Ecology and Conservation at the University of Hamburg and Chairman for the Madagascar section of the IUCN Species Survival Commission (IUCN/SSC) Primate Specialist Group since 1998; and Serge Rajaobelina, the President of Fanamby, a Malagasy non-governmental environmental organization.\n\nThe list of authors changed again with the third edition. Returning authors included Mittermeier, Louis, Langrand, Hawkins, Rajaobelina, Ratsimbazafy, and Rasoloarison. New authors included Matthew Richardson, writer and member of the IUCN/SSC Primate Specialist Group; Christoph Schwitzer, the Head of Research at the Bristol Zoo Gardens; Anthony Rylands, a Senior Research Scientist at Conservation International and Deputy Chair of the IUCN/SSC Primate Specialist Group; Christian Roos, a geneticist at the German Primate Center; Peter M. Kappeler, a Professor of Sociobiology and Anthropology at the University of Göttingen in Germany; and James MacKinnon, the Senior Technical Director of Conservation International in Madagascar.\n\nThe first edition followed a 1982 volume by Tattersall, entitled \"Primates of Madagascar\". As a field guide, the \"Lemurs of Madagascar\" is \"more portable and affordable,\" while offering updated information to assist lemur researchers and tourists in the identification of lemur species and subspecies, according to a 1996 review published in \"Lemur News\". All three editions cover the natural history and conservation status for each known species. They also discuss conservation strategies, lemur origins, extinct lemurs, and the history of discoveries made by early European naturalists. The books provide suggestions on where to see each species, as well as checklists to help people keep track of their sightings. The purpose of the book is defined in the \"Introduction\" as follows:\n\nFour pocket field guides have also been published by CI, intended strictly to help people identify lemurs in the field by providing over 100 species illustrations. All illustrations, including the detailed cover art, were drawn by Nash. Checklists for their respective lemur species are included with these guides, along with thumbnail range maps for each species. The four pocket guides include two editions of \"Lemurs of Madagascar Pocket Identification Guide\" (out of print), \"Nocturnal Lemurs\", and \"Diurnal and Cathemeral Lemurs\". The \"Nocturnal Lemurs\" booklet contains 65 species from eight genera. \"Diurnal and Cathemeral Lemurs\" hosts 34 species and subspecies from seven genera, along with illustrations to show male and female fur color differences in the genus \"Eulemur\" and color morphs for the indri and ruffed lemur species. A fifth and sixth pocket field guides are planned following the publication of the third edition of the field guide.\n\nAll three editions are split into multiple chapters, sections, and appendices. In the second and third editions, the inside of the front and back covers include a quick visual reference, with color-coded illustrations for each lemur type and colored tabs to help locate their corresponding sections. A section entitled \"How to Use this Field Guide\" is included between the \"Introduction\" and the first chapter. In this section, the layout of the book is discussed in detail, including the quick visual reference, chapters, appendices, references, and lemur-watching checklist. The chapter \"The Living Lemurs\" is discussed in great detail, including each section heading used for all the lemur species.\n\nThe \"Introduction\" in the first two editions was written by Peter A. Seligmann, Chairman of the Board and CEO of CI, and Mittermeier. In the third edition, the \"Introduction\" was written only by Mittermeier. In it, they emphasize the richness of Madagascar's primate diversity, summarize the conservation efforts and opportunities for preserving that diversity, and highlight recent discoveries, while also acknowledging the need for additional research. The chapter entitled \"Origins of Lemurs\" (\"Origin of the Lemurs\" in the third edition) briefly summarizes the theories on how lemurs came to Madagascar and the difficulty in resolving the mystery. \"Discovery and Study of the Living Lemurs\" reviews the history of exploration, field research, and taxonomic nomenclature of lemurs, starting from the 1625 description of a ring-tailed lemur to contemporary research by Western and Malagasy scientists. \"The Extinct Lemurs\" discusses the recently extinct subfossil lemurs, including the monkey lemurs, sloth lemurs, and koala lemurs. \"Conservation of Lemurs\" details the threats lemurs face, such as habitat destruction and hunting for bushmeat, and conservation efforts aimed at their protection, from the in-situ and ex-situ programs of the Madagascar Fauna Group to the promise by Madagascar's former president Marc Ravalomanana to triple the country's protected areas over five years, known as the Durban Vision. In the third edition, a new chapter was added, entitled \"Madagascar's Ancient Geological History\", written by Maarten de Wit from the University of Cape Town. In it, three billion years of geological and biological history are explored in detail.\n\nThe majority of the book, including the chapter \"The Living Lemurs\" and separate sections on each taxonomic group of lemur, providing detailed accounts of all lemur species known up until the time of publication, from the tiny mouse lemurs to the large indri and diademed sifaka. In the first and second editions, the chapter \"The Living Lemurs\" is broken first into sections on families, and then into species clumped together by genus. In the third edition, each family is assigned its own chapter number, separate from \"The Living Lemurs\" chapter, yet the order and layout are the same. In the second and third editions, all pages within each family section are assigned a colored tab to match those in the quick visual reference inside the covers. Each species subsection has a distribution map, an illustration or photo (if available), a list of common names in multiple languages (including Malagasy), and species information broken into five sections: \"Identification\", \"Geographic Range\", \"Natural History\", \"Conservation Status\", and \"Where to See It\".\nThe \"Identification\" section for each species provides descriptive information to help identify and distinguish species, including a detailed physical description, discussions of variation in size and coloration (morphometrics), and descriptions of distinguishing vocalizations. \"Geographic Range\" offers textual information to accompany the provided distribution map, although the authors note that ranges change due to habitat destruction and that species may be found in new localities outside of their known range. \"Natural History\" summarizes what is known about the behavior and ecology of each species, such as the unusual feeding strategies of the aye-aye or the nest-building behavior of the ruffed lemurs. Estimated populations densities and distributions, life histories, diet, social structure, and other details are provided when known. For many species, little information is given due to a lack of research, while others have been studied extensively allowing for more elaborate detail. \"Conservation Status\" lists the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species assessment and protected areas in which a species can be found, while also discussing specific threats to each species, the effects of local \"fady\" (taboos), the future outlook for species survival, and its coverage within protected areas. Lastly, \"Where to See It\" aims to promote ecotourism by helping travelers find the best lemur watching sites that can be reached quickly and with the least effort. Suggested modes of transportation are sometimes mentioned as well.\n\nThe appendices differ between editions. The first edition has two appendices. The first is entitled \"Lemurs Present in Protected Areas\" and discusses each region and domain of Madagascar while also providing basic information and lemur species content for each protected area. The second appendix, \"Alternative Names for Towns and Sites in Madagascar\" spells out a few alternative French and Malagasy names for some of the larger town and cities in Madagascar. In the second and third editions, Appendix A, \"Maps of Madagascar\", contains color maps that help locate towns, protected areas, topography, rivers, forest cover, regions, and lemur watching sites. Appendix B, entitled \"Biogeographic Regions and Floristic Domains of Madagascar\" discusses the regions and domains of Madagascar. Appendix C, \"Key Sites for Watching Lemurs\", covers characteristics and highlights of individual national parks, reserves, and regions for lemur watching. The third edition added Appendix D, entitled \"Primate-watching and Primate Life-listing\". In it, \"primate-watching\" and \"primate life-listing\" (the act of recording personal first sightings of a species) are promoted while their benefits to conservation are discussed.\n\nAll three editions provide a \"References\" section, with the second edition listing approximately 500 scientific papers, books, reports, and dissertations used in the creation of the book. The number of references jumped to over 1,100 in the third edition. Following the \"References\", the first edition provides a section with the color plates. In contrast, the second and third editions provides color illustrations throughout the book.\n\nIn a 1996 review of the first edition in the \"International Journal of Primatology\", Lisa Gould spoke favorably of the book, citing passages about lemur descriptions from the 17th and 18th centuries that she found entertaining and informative. She was particularly fascinated with Chapter four, \"The Extinct Lemurs\", and the reconstructions by Nash that accompanied the descriptions of morphology, behavior, and diet. She praised Nash's artwork as being one of the most enjoyable aspects of the book. The book was hailed as an excellent source for identifying lemur species for both tourists and researchers. The book was also briefly reviewed in \"College & Research Libraries News\" by George Eberhart in April 1996. The review noted Conservation International's promotion of ecotourism while also providing a count of the book's illustrations: 35 color plates, 50 distribution maps, and 135 drawings of postures and behaviors.\nIn the 1996 edition (volume 2) of \"Lemur News\", Alison Jolly praised the first edition for its \"contribution to knowledge in general\" and \"its effect on its intended audience.\" Like Gould, Jolly praised the work as a field guide, as well as Nash's high-quality illustrations. She noted the attraction of Nash's subfossil lemur reconstruction, claiming that it was \"rapidly becoming one of the most pirated single book illustration on the primate lecture-slide circuit.\" Jolly went on to praise the thoroughness of the natural history information provided for each species, including recently described species, noting that the information covered existing knowledge better than any other published literature, even when only a single paragraph was provided for poorly known species. The book was recommended not only for lemur specialists, but also for tourists, hoping it would spark an interest in ecotourism in impoverished Madagascar. The checklist of species, as well as the information on where to most easily spot them, earned a special mention from Jolly, who could only boast seeing 30 of the 50 known species at that time. Finally, the \"most significant and most appreciative\" audience Jolly mentioned was the Malagasy researchers, to whom Mittermeier reportedly gave 50 copies of the book during a workshop in 1995.\n\nIn a 1997 review from \"Conservation Biology\" by Joelisoa Ratsirarson, the book was referred to as a \"remarkable achievement\" for its up-to-date information, and for being the first comprehensive lemur field guide. Emphasizing many of the same highlights as Gould and Jolly, he went on to note the inclusion of captive management information, unpublished details, and the use of common names in English, French, German, and Malagasy. His critique focused on the organization of the illustrations in relation to the text, the lack of an index, and a desire for more information about the roles lemurs play in their ecosystem. Though he praised it for being useful to tourists, researchers, students, resource managers, and conservationists, he expressed concern over its lack of availability in the bookstores of Madagascar.\n\nThe completely revised second edition of \"Lemurs of Madagascar\" was reviewed in detail in the \"American Journal of Primatology\" by Stacey Tecot. Each chapter, section, and appendix was thoroughly summarized, and as with the reviews of previous editions, the chapter on subfossil lemurs was noted as one of the more \"fascinating\" parts of the book, particularly due to its colorful and informative illustrations. Although the book received only praise, Tecot did suggest two additions for the next edition: the need for information about the processes of island biogeography and expansion on captive conservation programs aside from the Duke Lemur Center, particularly at the Lemur Conservation Foundation and St. Catherines Island. A subject index was also recommended, along with better referencing of the figures and illustrations. Otherwise, the book was praised as being better than other field guides due to its inclusion of seemingly obscure yet important details, such as how to get to lemur watching sites, travel time, where to stay, mentions of lesser-known sites, listings of species to be seen, best times to observe, and even, among other things, the number of habituated lemur groups in each area. Tecot noted that the lemur checklist promoted competitive lemur watching, similar to birdwatching, and that the color-coded sections assisted in \"on-the-fly species identification.\" Although very satisfied with the information provided for each species, Tecot commended the promise made in this edition to more extensively cover the published literature in the upcoming third edition. Like its predecessor, the second edition was praised as an excellent tool for ecotourists and researchers. It was also noted for its attempt to promote ecotourism as a conservation strategy.\n\nThis newer edition was also mentioned briefly in the 2006 edition (volume 11) of \"Lemur News\". The publication announcement highlighted the extensive coverage of scientific information throughout a range of chapters and appendices. The edition is said to contain over 200 illustrations, including drawings, photos, and maps.\n\nThe 2010 third edition was reviewed in \"Lemur News\" by Alex Dunkel. He praised the increased level of detail in the new edition, which adds additional information on geology, the history of lemur research, and numerous aspects of lemur biology. Efforts to conserve lemurs have faced steep challenges, Dunkel wrote, due to political and economic instability in Madagascar, and these challenges make the new edition especially important. However, he worried that the increased size of the book made it less portable than its predecessors.\n\nWhile the first edition recognized 50 lemur taxa (32 species and 25 subspecies), the second edition recognized 71 lemur taxa (68 species and 5 subspecies) just 12 years later. The second edition followed the recommendations of Colin Groves in the third edition of \"Mammal Species of the World\" from 2005 by recognizing newly identified nocturnal species and raising many former subspecies to species status. For comparison, Tattersall's book \"Primates of Madagascar\" from 1982 listed only 20 species and 29 subspecies. Following the publication of the second edition, Nick Garbutt recognized 87 species and 5 subspecies in his book \"Mammals of Madagascar\".\n\nNot all lemur researchers agree with the species promotions supported by these books. Researchers such as Tattersall and Anne D. Yoder, director of the Duke Lemur Center, have raised concerns about taxonomic inflation. In particular, Tattersall has noted a steep decline in polytypic lemur species, or species with defined subspecies, starting with the first edition of \"Lemurs of Madagascar\" and becoming more pronounced in the second edition. He noted that more than half of the new species added in the second edition were promoted subspecies and questioned whether Madagascar could produce so many monotypic species.\n\nPrior to the release of the third edition of \"Lemurs of Madagascar\", many of the major contributors, as well as Colin Groves, teamed up in 2008 to compile an updated lemur species list, published under the title \"Lemur diversity in Madagascar\" in the \"International Journal of Primatology\". In it, 99 lemur taxa were recognized (97 species and 3 subspecies). The third edition went on to recognize 101 lemur taxa (97 species and 6 subspecies) and suggested that future research could reveal as many as 110 to 125 taxa.\n\n"}
{"id": "20835484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20835484", "title": "Liquid junction potential", "text": "Liquid junction potential\n\nLiquid junction potential occurs when two solutions of electrolytes of different concentrations are in contact with each other. The more concentrated solution will have a tendency to diffuse into the comparatively less concentrated one. The rate of diffusion of each ion will be roughly proportional to its speed in an electric field. If the anions diffuse more rapidly than the cations, they will diffuse ahead into the dilute solution, leaving the latter negatively charged and the concentrated solution positively charged. This will result in an electrical double layer of positive and negative charges at the junction of the two solutions. Thus at the point of junction, a potential difference will develop because of the ionic transfer. This potential is called liquid junction potential or diffusion potential which is non-equilibrium potential. The magnitude of the potential depends on the relative speeds of the ions' movement.\n\nThe liquid junction potential cannot be measured directly but calculated. The Electromotive force (EMF) of a concentration cell with transference includes the liquid junction potential.\n\nThe EMF of a concentration cell without transport is:\n\nwhere a and a are activities of HCl in the two solutions, R is the Universal Gas Constant, T is the temperature and F is Faraday's Constant.\n\nThe EMF of a concentration cell with transport (including the ion transport number) is:\n\nwhere a and a are activities of HCl solutions of right and left hand electrodes respectively and t be transport number of Cl\n\nLiquid Junction potential is the difference between the two EMFs of the two concentration cells, with and without ionic transport:\n\nE= E – E = (t – 1) RT/F . ln (a/a)\n\nThe liquid junction potential interferes with the exact measurement of the electromotive force of a chemical cell, so its effect should be minimized as much as possible for accurate measurement. The most common method of eliminating the liquid junction potential is to place a salt bridge consisting of a saturated solution of potassium chloride (KCl) and ammonium nitrate (NHNO) with lithium acetate (CHCOOLi) between the two solutions constituting the junction. When such a bridge is used, the ions in the bridge are present in large excess at the junction and they carry almost the whole of the current across the boundary. The efficiency of KCl/NHNO is connected with the fact that in these salts, the transport numbers of anions and cations are the same.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7537772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7537772", "title": "List of Canadian plants by family D", "text": "List of Canadian plants by family D\n\nMain page: List of Canadian plants by family\n\nFamilies:\nA | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I J K | L | M | N | O | P Q | R | S | T | U V W | X Y Z\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5880296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5880296", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Bedfordshire", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Bedfordshire\n\nBedfordshire is a county in the East of England. It is bounded by Hertfordshire to the south-east, Cambridgeshire to the north-east, Northamptonshire to the north, and Buckinghamshire to the west. It has an area of , and population estimated in 2015 at 630,000, with an increase of 10% over the previous ten years. The county town is Bedford, and the name is first recorded in the treaty in about 879 between King Alfred the Great and Guthrum, which divided English and Danish territory by a line which went through Bedford.\n\nSouthern Bedfordshire is part of the Chilterns Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. North and mid Bedfordshire are undulating claylands with broad river valleys of the River Great Ouse and its tributaries, and the Bedfordshire Greensand Ridge. Jurassic and Cretaceous clays are overlaid by Quaternary glacial deposits of chalky boulder clay.\n\nThere are forty Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Bedfordshire, designated by Natural England. Thirty-five are listed for their biological interest, and five for their geological interest. Three of the sites are also National nature reserves, twelve are in the Chilterns Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, and eleven are managed wholly or partly by the Wildlife Trust for Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Northamptonshire. In 2009 Bedfordshire was divided into three unitary local authorities: thirty-two sites are in Central Bedfordshire, eight in Bedford and none in Luton.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6201789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6201789", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in North Wester Ross and Cromarty", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in North Wester Ross and Cromarty\n\nThe following is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the North Wester Ross and Cromarty Area of Search. For other areas, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "48543200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48543200", "title": "List of Solar System objects by greatest aphelion", "text": "List of Solar System objects by greatest aphelion\n\nThis is a list of Solar System objects by greatest aphelion or the greatest distance from the Sun that the orbit takes it. For the purposes of this list, it is implied that the object is orbiting the Sun in a two-body solution without the influence of the planets or passing stars. The aphelion can change significantly due to the gravitational influence of planets and other stars. Most of these objects are comets on a calculated path and may not be directly observable. For instance, comet Hale-Bopp was last seen in 2013 at magnitude 24 and continues to fade, making it invisible to all but the most powerful telescopes.\n\nThe maximum extent of the region in which the Sun's gravitational field is dominant, the Hill sphere, may extend to as calculated in the 1960s. But any comet currently more than about from the Sun can be considered lost to the interstellar medium. The nearest known star is Proxima Centauri at 271,000 AU which is 4.22 light years, followed by Alpha Centauri at about 4.35 light years away according to NASA.\n\nComets are thought to orbit the Sun at great distances, but then be perturbed by passing stars and the galactic tides. As they come into or leave the inner Solar System they may have their orbit changed by the planets, or alternatively be ejected from the Solar System. It is also possible they may collide with the Sun or a planet.\n\nThe exact furthest distance from the Sun (aphelion) can be very different depending on the object's position in its orbit, as well as the epoch. An incoming asteroid could be slowed down by Jupiter, making its orbit closer to the Sun. The aphelion distance for heliocentric orbits (only taking into account the present location of the Sun as the orbited mass) can be highly inaccurate for objects with an orbital eccentricity approaching 1 (a hyperbolic orbit not bound to the Solar System) especially when the orbit is calculated while the object is near its closest point to the Sun and has not left the planetary region of the Solar System, where it passes closest to planets which could alter its orbit significantly. Barycentric solutions are more accurate because they account for the combined gravity of the Sun and the most massive planet Jupiter. An epoch of 2200 has all of these objects well outside of the planetary region of the Solar System. In 2200, comet C/2012 S4 will be from the Sun.\n\nIt should be noted that the exact position of Planet Nine is poorly known, so some comets might have been slightly perturbed by it. However, statistically only 0.17% of distant comets should pass less than 100 AU from planet Nine, and only 0.0017% less than 10 AU. \n\n\nThese can also change significantly such as if perturbed by Jupiter\n\nExamples of comets with a more well-determined orbit. Comets are extremely small relative to other bodies and hard to observe once they stop outgassing (see Coma (cometary)). Because they are typically discovered close to the Sun, it will take some time even thousands of years for them to actually travel out to great distances. The \"Whipple\" proposal might be able to detect Oort cloud objects at great distances, but probably not a particular object.\n\nA large number of trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs) – minor planets orbiting beyond the orbit of Neptune – have been discovered in recent years. Many TNOs have orbits with an aphelion (farthest distance to the Sun) far beyond Neptune's orbit at 30.1 AU. Some of these TNOs with an extreme aphelion are detached objects such as , which always reside in the outermost region of the Solar System, while for other TNOs, the extreme aphelion is due to an exceptionally high eccentricity such as for , which orbits the Sun at a distance between 4.1 (closer than Jupiter) and 2200 AU (70 times farther from the Sun than Neptune). The following is a list of TNOs with the largest aphelion in descending order.\n\nThe following group of bodies have orbits with an aphelion above 200 AU, with 1-sigma uncertainties given to two significant digits.\n\nThe following group of bodies have orbits with an aphelion between 100 and 200 AU.\n\nThe following asteroids have an incoming barycentric aphelion of at least 1000 AU.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32402089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32402089", "title": "List of Tuber (fungus) species", "text": "List of Tuber (fungus) species\n\nThis is a list of the species in the fungal genus \"Tuber\".\n"}
{"id": "3023352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3023352", "title": "List of botanical gardens in France", "text": "List of botanical gardens in France\n\nThis list of botanical gardens in France is intended to contain all significant botanical gardens and arboretums in France.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28048725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28048725", "title": "List of mountain passes and hills in the Tour de France", "text": "List of mountain passes and hills in the Tour de France\n\nThis is a list of mountain passes and hills in the Tour de France. Among the passes most often crossed, Col du Tourmalet, Col d'Aubisque, Col d'Aspin, Col de Peyresourde, Col du Galibier and Col de la Faucille dominate, while the highest peak ever reached is Cime de la Bonette-Restefond (), used in the 1962, 1964, 1993 and 2008 Tour de France.\n\nThe highest mountain finishes in the history of the Tour were Galibier (2,645 m (8,677 ft)) in 2011; previously this had been Val Thorens () in 1994; and before that Col du Granon () used in 1986.\n\nThe 2001 Tour de France included 19 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2002 Tour de France included 21 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2003 Tour de France included 22 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2004 Tour de France included 22 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2005 Tour de France included 23 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2006 Tour de France included 22 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2007 Tour de France included 22 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\nIn 2007, the Tour had a stage finish at the summit of Col d'Aubisque () for the first time. Earlier that year the riders crossed the Alps, both Col de l'Iseran () and Col du Galibier () on the same stage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2008 Tour de France included 17 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2009 Tour de France included 21 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2. Seven of them were situated in the Pyrenees, three in the Vosges, nine in the Alps, one in the Ardèche and one in the Pre-Alps:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2010 Tour de France included 23 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2. One of them were situated in the Jura, eight in the Alps, two in the Cévennes, and twelve in the Pyrenees:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2011 Tour de France included 23 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2. Four of them are situated in the Massif Central, nine in the Pyrenees, and ten in the Alps:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2012 tour included three uphill finishes: La Planche des Belles Filles (stage 7), La Toussuire - Les Sybelles (stage 11) and Peyragudes (stage 17). The Col du Grand Colombier was included for the first time, and was among six Hors catégorie rated climbs in the Alps and Pyrenees.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2013 Tour de France included 28 climbs ranked Category 2 or higher of which seven were Hors catégorie climbs, eight Category 1 and thirteen were Second Category. There were four \"mountain top\" finishes: at Ax-3 Domaines in the Pyrenees, Mont Ventoux in Provence, and Alpe d'Huez and Annecy-Semnoz in the Alps. Alpe d'Huez was used twice on stage 18, both times ranked Hors catégorie.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2014 Tour de France includes 25 climbs ranked Category 2 or higher of which six are Hors catégorie climbs, eleven Category 1 and eight are Second Category. There are seven \"mountain top\" finishes: at La Mauselaine (Category 3) and La Planche des Belles Filles in the Vosges, Chamrousse and Risoul in the Alps, and Saint-Lary Pla d'Adet and Hautacam in the Pyrenees.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2015 Tour de France includes 25 climbs ranked Category 2 or higher of which 7 are Hors catégorie climbs, 6 Category 1 and 12 are Second Category.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2016 Tour de France includes 28 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 2017 Tour de France includes 28 mountain passes or summit finishes, categorized HC, 1, or 2.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4782694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4782694", "title": "List of mountains in Argentina", "text": "List of mountains in Argentina\n\nThis a list of mountains situated in Argentina, South America. The list also shows the height of each mountain.\n\n\nThe Lincancabur mountain, located between Chile and Bolivia, has been rightly referred to be in Argentina under the name \"Lincancaur\" with a height of 6,620 m;this mountain does exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "24108362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24108362", "title": "List of native plants of Flora Palaestina (C–D)", "text": "List of native plants of Flora Palaestina (C–D)\n\nThis is an incomplete list of 2,700 species of vascular plants which are native to the region of Palestine as defined by \"Flora Palaestina\". The region includes: the whole area of the State of Israel; the West Bank; the Gaza Strip; the Golan Heights; the Israeli-occupied part of Mount Hermon; and the East Bank, which is the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.\n\nThe table below lists alphabetically all species with initial letters C-D. For other species, click here:\n\n"}
{"id": "42174074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42174074", "title": "List of nearest exoplanets", "text": "List of nearest exoplanets\n\nThere are known exoplanets, or planets outside our solar system that orbit a star, as of ; only a small fraction of these are located in the vicinity of the Solar System. Within , there are 56 exoplanets listed as confirmed by the NASA Exoplanet Archive. Among the over 400 known stars within 10 parsecs, 26 have been confirmed to have planetary systems; 51 stars in this range are visible to the naked eye, eight of which have planetary systems.\n\nThe first report of an exoplanet within this range was in 1998 for a planet orbiting around Gliese 876 (15.3 light-years (ly) away), and the latest as of 2017 is one around Ross 128 (11 ly). The closest exoplanet found is Proxima Centauri b, which was confirmed in 2016 to orbit Proxima Centauri, the closest star to our Solar System (4.25 ly). HD 219134 (21.6 ly) has six exoplanets, the highest number discovered for any star within this range. A planet around Fomalhaut (25 ly) was, in 2008, the first planet to be directly imaged.\n\nMost known nearby exoplanets orbit close to their star and have highly eccentric orbits. A majority are significantly larger than Earth, but a few have similar masses, including two planets (around YZ Ceti, 12 ly) which may be less massive than Earth. Several confirmed exoplanets are hypothesized to be potentially habitable, with Proxima Centauri b and three around Gliese 667 C (23.6 ly) considered the most likely candidates. The International Astronomical Union took a public survey in 2015 about renaming some known extrasolar bodies, including the planets around Epsilon Eridani (10.5 ly) and Fomalhaut. \n\nUnlike for bodies within our Solar System, there is no clearly established method for officially recognizing an exoplanet. According to the International Astronomical Union, an exoplanet should be considered confirmed if it has not been disputed for five years after its discovery. There have been examples where the existence of exoplanets has been proposed, but even after follow-up studies their existence is still considered doubtful by some astronomers. Such cases include: Alpha Centauri (4.36 ly, two in 2012 and 2013), Lalande 21185 (8.31 ly, in 2017), Groombridge 34 (11.7 ly, two in 2014 and 2017), Epsilon Indi (11.8 ly, in 2018), LHS 288 (15.6 ly, in 2007), 40 Eridani (16.3 ly, in 2018), Gliese 682 (16.6 ly, two in 2014), and Gliese 229 (18.8 ly, in 2014). There are also some instances where proposed exoplanets were later disproved by subsequent studies, such as candidates around Teegarden's star (12.6 ly), Van Maanen 2 (13.9 ly), Groombridge 1618 (15.9 ly), and VB 10 (18.7 ly).\n\nThe Working Group on Extrasolar Planets of the International Astronomical Union adopted in 2003 a working definition on the upper limit for what constitutes a planet: not being massive enough to sustain thermonuclear fusion of deuterium. Some studies have calculated this to be somewhere around 13 times the mass of Jupiter, and therefore objects more massive than this are usually classified as brown dwarfs. Some proposed candidate exoplanets were later shown to be massive enough to fall above the threshold, and are likely brown dwarfs, as was the case for: SCR 1845-6357 B (12.6 ly), SDSS J1416+1348 B (29.7 ly), and WISE 1217+1626 B (30 ly).\n\nExcluded from the current list are known examples of potential free-floating sub-brown dwarfs, or \"rogue planets\", which are bodies that are too small to undergo fusion yet they do not revolve around a star. Known such examples include: WISE 0855–0714 (7.3 ly), UGPS 0722-05, (13 ly) WISE 1541−2250 (18.6 ly), and SIMP J01365663+0933473 (20 ly).\n\n"}
{"id": "13393915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13393915", "title": "List of typhlopid species and subspecies", "text": "List of typhlopid species and subspecies\n\nThis is a list of all genera, species and subspecies of the family Typhlopidae, otherwise referred to as typical blind snakes, or typhlopids. It follows the taxonomy currently provided by ITIS, which is based on the continuing work of Dr. Roy McDiarmid.\n\n"}
{"id": "18713565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18713565", "title": "Low voltage ride through", "text": "Low voltage ride through\n\nIn electrical power engineering, fault ride through (FRT), sometimes under-voltage ride through (UVRT), or low voltage ride through (LVRT), is the capability of electric generators to stay connected in short periods of lower electric network voltage (cf. voltage dip). It is needed at distribution level (wind parks, PV systems, distributed cogeneration, etc.) to prevent a short circuit at HV or EHV level from causing a widespread loss of generation. Similar requirements for critical loads such as computer systems and industrial processes are often handled through the use of an uninterruptible power supply (UPS) or capacitor bank to supply make-up power during these events.\n\nMany generator designs use electric current flowing through windings to produce the magnetic field on which the motor or generator operates. This is in contrast to designs that use permanent magnets to generate this field instead. Such devices may have a minimum working voltage, below which the device does not work correctly, or does so at greatly reduced efficiency. Some will disconnect themselves from the circuit when these conditions apply. The effect is more pronounced in doubly-fed induction generators (DFIG), which have two sets of powered magnetic windings, than in squirrel-cage induction generators which have only one. Synchronous generators may slip and become unstable, if the voltage of the stator winding goes below a certain threshold.\n\nIn a grid containing many distributed generators subject to disconnection at under voltage, it is possible to cause a chain reaction that takes other generators offline as well. This can occur in the event of a voltage dip that causes one of the generators to disconnect from the grid. As voltage dips are often caused by too little generation for the load in a distribution grid, removing generation can cause the voltage to drop further. This may bring the voltage down enough to cause another generator to trip, lower the voltage even further, and may cause a cascading failure.\n\nModern large-scale wind turbines, typically 1 MW and larger, are normally required to include systems that allow them to operate through such an event, and thereby “ride through” the voltage dip. Similar requirements are now becoming common on large solar power installations that likewise might cause instability in the event of a widespread disconnection of generating units. Depending on the application the device may, during and after the dip, be required to:\n\n\nA variety of standards exist and generally vary across jurisdictions. Examples of the such grid codes are the German BDEW grid code and its supplements 2, 3, and 4 as well as the National Grid Code in UK.\n\nFor wind turbines, the FRT testing is described in the standard IEC 61400-21 (2nd edition August 2008). More detailed testing procedures are stated in the German guideline FGW TR3 (Rev. 22). Testing of devices with less than 16 Amp rated current is described in the EMC standard IEC 61000-4-11 and for higher current devices in IEC 61000-4-34.\n\n"}
{"id": "51924989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51924989", "title": "Lucus Pisaurensis", "text": "Lucus Pisaurensis\n\nSacred grove of ancient Pisaureum, Lucus Pisaurensis is a sacerdotal lucus lying just outside the coastal \"comune\" of Pesaro, Italy between the Colle della Salute (Hill of Salus) and the Collina (Hillside of the Springs of Beatitude) in Santa Veneranda. Santa Veneranda is a hamlet in the Pesaro e Urbino Province of Marche, Italy, a pre-\"Imperium Romanum\" region of the Latin Sabini, Umbrian and Estrucan tribes.\n\n\"Pisaurensia Marmora\", (\"Marble of Pesaro-Umbria\"), a manuscript written by 18th Century Italian aristocrat Annibale degli Abbati Olivieri Giordani, was published in 1738. In the preface, Olivieri reports having discovered, in the prior year, a sacred grove on his estate in a farm field by the little \"Chiostro di Santo Gaetano dei Conti.\" He calls the site \"Lucus Pisaurensis\" (Sacred Grove of Pesaro) and provides a brief description of his findings. Olivieri further states that he plans to publish a future manuscript entitled \"De Luco Sacred Veterum Pisaurensium\" (\"The Sacred Grove of Ancient Pisaurensis\"), once excavations are completed. This work however, was never published and interest in the \"lucus\" disappeared after Oliviera's passing.\n\n21st Century\n\nDuring excavations in the 21st century, the grove was rediscovered and archaeological interest in the site renewed.\n\nOliveri unearthed in his field, near the ancient \"fontanine\" by the \"Chiostro di Santo Gaetano dei Conti\", 13 votive stones or \"cippi\", carved of sandstone with Sabine inscriptions in Umbrian-Estrucan; a number of terracotta and sandstone artifacts; clay & copper coin; and a small \"semo\" replica in bronze inscribed \"Libra\". The votives were inscribed with names of various Sabini-Estrucan \"semones\": Salute, Fide, Lucina, Marica, Feronia, Juno Regina; as well as the later Roman Gods: Iunos, Apolenei, Diana, Mater Matuta.\n\nIn addition to the found votives, coin and idol, a terracotta borderline marker was unearthed, inscribed: \" \"δ Δ δ luci coiirii CI LX\" \". \"Luci Coiiri\" means 'Coerian Grove' and the Roman numerals are taken to reference land measurements.\n\nOlivieri found numerous other artifacts on his estate, all of which are housed in the Biblioteca Oliveriana, a Museum and Library in Pesaro that he founded. Among these many findings are bronze and clay coinage, carved sandstone stela from 7th C. B.C. depicting naumachia (mock naval battles), the famed bronze Tabula Fabrorum with the relief of Etruscan goddess Minerva (Pallas Athena).\n\nThe \"fontanine\", or little fountains of stone, by groves near the \"Chiostro\" where many of the votives are discoveried, give archaeologists reason to connect the \"lucus\" to a cult of water goddesses. Latin meaning of the word \"fontanine\" is 'spring waters' as referenced by Decimus Iūnius Iuvenālis, a Silver Age Roman poet, (55 - c. 138 CE), \"Quaesitum ad fontem solos deducere verpus\", \"To guide only the \"condūcēbāmus\" to the fountain that they seek.\"\n\nEvolution of Votives\n\nIt is of interest to note that over the millennia, as the original purpose of \"luci\" became lost, votive stones, cippi and stelae translated to become grave markers and tombs.\n\nCeremonies in \"luci\" were centered around classic elements of a spring and a sylvan wood or coppice. Trees with certain desired qualities of a mystical nature and waters of a certain mineral purity were essential to the creating of a Sacred Grove.\n\nOne of these trees is the Laurus nobilis (\"lat.\" Laures, \"gr.\" Dáphnē Δάφνη), a Mediterranean tree native to the Greek and Roman territories of the early Italics, Illyrians and Iberians. The leaves, roots, berries and bark of the bay laurel contain volatile oils, malabathrum, which stimulate sense glands of the nose, and were the basis of these rituals. \"{See Wikipedia article on Common sense, section on Aristotelian common sense}\"\n\nEarliest ceremonies of the bronze-age were very naturalistic, \"πῖπτον\"\n\nThe Carmen Arvale is a surviving Classical-Age \"Anticuus Latius vocare mei\" chant of \"di semones\" with the praepositus calling forth \"quod potentia\" of their guardian divinities and imploring them to \"limen sali, sta.\"\n\nAn Allegorical Myth of \"Luci\"\n\nDaphne, a naiad (nymph, a spirit of springs and sacred groves) is pursued by Apollo and when she entreaties, is allegorically turned to a \"laures\" tree by her river god Ladon.\n\nPisaureum, original name of Pesaro, from Pisaurus; \"gr.\" [ᵉ]Pì, by the side of + \"gr.\" sauria from \"sanskrt.\" s`aura, ☯ (symbol of dynamic union) ₊ sun's aura + \"lat.\" -ium or \"lat.\" -us, both from \"gr.\" -ion or -ia, a state, condition, or quality caused by activities such as those of a ritual\n\nSacerdotal Lucus, A Sacred Wood; Sacerdotal [sacer, \"lat.\" sacred + dotal, \"lat.\" giving], sacred giving or offering; Lucus, \"lat.\", lux, light\n\nCondūcēbāmus, \"lat.\"1st person imperfect, channel through, combine together, unite; gunas of Nature, of that which binds together\n\nCoerian, \"lat.\" cor, of the heart, of the soul; from \"gr.\" kardía καρδία, from \"an. gr.\" kéar κῆρ, with all the heart; from \"PIE\" ḱḗr, fr. \"proto-PIE\" m'ḳerd, \"Sẇan\" cognate muč̣û`ed, of the breast\n\nCollina di Calibano, Hillside of Beātificus; Collina \"it.\", down hill; Calibano \"gr.\" καλλίστη inner beauty, \"lat.\" Beātificus, blessedness, a state of holy bliss, calque \"samadhi\"\n\nColle della Salute, Hill of Salus; Colle \"it.\", hill; Salute \"it.\", from \"lat.\" Salvs, an ancient Roman demi-goddess or \"semo\", ultimately from \"PIE\" solh₂, meaning whole or completed\n\nCippi, \"gr.\" ἐνσκήπτω, \"n.\" stela, a balance, a post; \"v.\" to let fall, to hurl (\"viz.\" a rock)\n\nSemo pl. Semones, \"gr.\" Δαίμων, demigods and -goddesses of Sabini origin, from \"lat.\" se, separated, parted from + \"lat.\" homo, as one, together with\n\nDáphnē Laures, \"lat.\" Laurūs, from \"etr.\" lar, the spirit of; \"anc. gr.\" Δάφνη δáphnē, laurel, of which the ingested leaves give the gift of prophesying\n\nA sequential listing of sandstones identified in the various \"luci\" cippi- the stēla, \"Iakovianós simádi\" and hélmis scapī of Lucus Pisaurensis\nA short article on the Oliveriano Museum in Pesaro, Italy, with descriptives of the Lucus Pisaurensis artifacts and Olivieri's archeological findings around Pesaro-Umbria http://www.euromuse.net/en/museums/museum/view-m/museo-archeologico-oliveriano/\n"}
{"id": "1949838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1949838", "title": "Matthew 3:6", "text": "Matthew 3:6\n\nMatthew 3:6 is the sixth verse of the third chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The verse occurs in the section introducing John the Baptist with this verse describing his baptisms.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see here: \n\nThe use of the word baptism to describe what John is doing is controversial. Anabaptists assert that the only proper translation for the Greek verb \"baptizmo\" is \"immerse\". They thus practice baptisms where the entire body is immersed in water, rather than just a sprinkling of water as is done in most other Christian churches. Most non-Baptist scholars do agree that John the Baptist was probably immersing those that came to see him, but they disagree that this is the only valid form of baptism.\n\nFrance notes that while in Luke and Mark John's baptisms have the power to forgive sins in Matthew they are merely confessed. France argues that in the Gospel of Matthew forgiveness of sins only becomes possible after Jesus' resurrection, a theology not held by the other synoptics. The wording of this verse gives no guidance to the Protestant/Catholic dispute over whether the act of baptism cleanses one of sins, or if it merely symbolizes that a person has already been cleansed by God. Similarly the verse is unclear on what role confession plays in the process.\n\nThe origins of John's baptism ritual are much discussed amongst scholars. Hill notes that various forms of baptism were practiced throughout the Jewish world at this time, but that only those of John the Baptist and Qumran are eschatological. This has many scholars to propose a link between the Baptist and those who wrote the Dead Sea Scrolls. There were still important difference between the baptisms of the Essenes and that of John. In Qumran baptism was a part of a regular ritual for those already purified. In John and in Christianity it is a one time event with transformative powers.\n"}
{"id": "82651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82651", "title": "Meliboea", "text": "Meliboea\n\nIn Greek mythology, Meliboea or Meliboia () was a name attributed to the following individuals:\n\n\nFamous kings of Meliboea were:\n"}
{"id": "55472804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55472804", "title": "Mikhail Farikh", "text": "Mikhail Farikh\n\nMikhail Rostislavovich Farikh (Russian: Фарих Михаил Ростиславович) (June 6 1959, Moscow — April 18 2016 Bely) was a private helicopter pilot and the first Russian to go around the world by helicopter and to reach the North Pole. He held world records in helicopter competitions. He helped popularize light aviation and was a prominent activist in the world of Russian GA. He was also an active member of the aviation organization .\n\nHe was born in Moscow in 1959 into the family of test pilot Rostislav Fabiovich Farikh born May 12, 1922. His grandfather Fabio Farikh was a prominent polar pilot and a motoring pioneer in Russia.\n\nIn 1976, Mikhail graduated from Moscow School No. 10. He entered the law faculty of the Military Institute of the Ministry of Defense (which is now, after several transformations, part of the MU RF MD), from which he graduated in 1980. He served in the armed forces as a legal officer until 1995. He retired with the rank of lieutenant-colonel.\nAfter being discharged into the reserves, he went into the automobile audio equipment business. He was fond of multi-discipline car audio competitions and in 2006 became the Russian champion in EMMA racing, in which driving skills as well as car audio and tuning are put to the test.\n\nAfter giving up his active role in business, Mikhail enrolled in cooking courses, studied Italian, and then ended up by chance in a flying club, where he began to study flying at \n\nMikhail Farikh made a valuable contribution to the recent history of Russian and international mobile sound-system design and all-terrain vehicles. The projects he headed attracted great attention at car audio competitions, exhibitions, and social events. In sound-pressure level (SPL) competitions between 2001 and 2007, Team Prology took first place 48 times and second place twice and set 14 Russian records. The absolute Russian record of 173.4 dB, set in 2003 with the car named “Ladoga,” has yet to be surpassed.\n\nHe helped to develop and build a number of mobile audio complexes (Hurricane, Typhoon, JBL Sound Cruiser, Prolozavr 1.0 and 2.0). The JBL Sound Cruiser test car made a great impression at the 2005 IFA in Berlin and received worldwide acclaim.\n\nMikhail began to learn to fly helicopters in 2007. In 2008, he acquired his private pilot license. He immediately began flying frequently and extensively. He acquired a British pilot license in the same year, and an American one in 2010. \n\nIn subsequent years, he continued to increase his qualifications by attending courses at various domestic and foreign flying clubs (in England, Spain, the USA, Canada, etc.), and was constantly improving his technique, paying special attention to autorotation landings. The Robinson R44 and Robinson R66 were Mikhail’s main helicopters.\n\nMikhail’s intense flight activity is proved by the hours he logged — without performing commercial flights or training student pilots, Mikhail flew 332 hours in 2011 (a total of 1,340 hours as of 2011) and 425 hours in 2013 (altogether 2,113 hours). He flew more than 2,100 hours in the six years after he began training. Later Mikhail also mastered flying airplanes and received a “Single-engine land-based plane” entry in his pilot license. He also flew gliders and other types of aircraft.\nAfter major reforms to Russian aviation legislation in 2010, he mastered the new flight rules and helped other pilots to do so. In 2012, he was the first Russian private pilot to cross the border of Russia in a helicopter under the new rules for foreign flights.\n\nHe twice (in 2010 and 2013) organized the Robinson Safety Course (a safe piloting course) in Moscow, as well as a workshop led by the British pilot Quentin Smith (, nicknamed “Captain Q” on operating the Robinson R44 in the cold months of the year and under ever-changing weather conditions. Quentin is considered to be one of the most experienced Robinson R44 pilots; he twice went around the world by helicopter and became the first pilot in aviation history who landed a piston helicopter on both the North and South Poles.\n\nBetween September 22 and 26, Mikhail Farikh and Dmitry Rakitsky carried out a speed-record-breaking flight from Moscow to Sakhalin. The FAI registered three records at once as a result of this four-day flight.\n\nMikhail was one of the first pilots in Russia who helped rescue people who had gotten lost in the woods. In 2011, he took part in four search-and-rescue operations in cooperation with the Liza Alert volunteer organization. He flew for a total of about 15 hours This initiative led to the formation of the Angel helicopter search-and-rescue detachment, which now comprises over 90 people. Mikhail continued to take part in rescues and joint exercises. He was posthumously awarded the badge of honor of the Angel helicopter search-and-rescue detachment. In addition to searching for people (mushroom gatherers, tourists, etc.), he participated in search-and-rescue operations aimed at searching for crews of aircraft in distress. He vigorously advocated the mandatory use of satellite trackers (SPOT, inReach, etc.), which make it possible to find aircraft following accidents.\n\nIn 2013, he reached the North Pole as a crew member with PIC Dmitrii Rakitsky, flying the Moscow — North Pole — Moscow route. The crew was the first in the world to make that flight with the light helicopter Robinson R66. Flights past the Arctic Circle were also performed for scientific purposes. During the flight, with the participation of the polar explorer Oleg Prodan, they placed radio buoys at the location where the schooner Svyataya Anna from the Brusilov Expedition was wrecked, so as to determine the direction of ice drift, which might make it possible to discover the ship itself.\n\nThe first attempt to fly around the world in 2012 did not move beyond the preparatory stage, as the US aviation authorities issued a NOTAM, according to which aircraft of several countries, including those registered in Russia, were not cleared for flights under the VFR over American territory.\n\nIn 2013 the around-the-world flight attempt met with success. It was carried out by two Robinson R66s, flown by Farikh and Dmitrii Rakitsky, Alexander Kurylev, and Vadim Melnikov. Cameraman and film director Dmitrii Kubasov traveled the whole way with the pilots. This was the first around-the-world helicopter flight in Russian history.\n\nAs an active member of the Russian aviation community and representative of AOPA Russia, Mikhail developed relationships with government agencies and regulatory bodies and participated in various events along with other GA pilots. He also took part in various air shows and events — Vertoslet, the travel-media PereDvizheniye Festival, and others.\n\nIn 2015, under Mikhail’s leadership, a group of five helicopters (the crew of one of them containing representatives from the USA, Britain, and Russia) visited three poles — the magnetic pole, the geographic pole, and the pole of inaccessibility. During this flight, a unique refueling feat was accomplished with the use of a store of fuel arranged ahead of time on drift ice.\n\nIn 2015, at the annual conference of AOPA Russia, he presented the Pilot of the Year award in his capacity as the King of Arms of the organization.\nAlso in 2015, Mikhail took part in a successful attempt to set the Guinness World Record for the largest helicopter formation.\n\nWhen Mikhail himself did not take part in the flights, he did a lot to make them possible, by sharing experience with others, rendering organizational assistance, and following his colleagues’ flights closely.\nOne of the biggest projects undertaken with Mikhail’s assistance was the 2014 Moscow — New Zealand — Moscow flight headed by Evgeny Kabanov. Mikhail also played a big role in the 2015 attempt by Sergey Ananov to carry out a solo around-the-world flight in a Robinson R22.\n\nMikhail Farikh died on April 18, 2016 during the second helicopter expedition in search of the Svyataya Anna gunvessel. The fatal crash occurred at 22:06 local time (17:06 UTC) at Oleg Prodan, polar explorer and director of the Onezhskoye Pomorye National Park, and Alexei Frolov, founder and owner of the Mirital company, died along with him. All three men held private pilot licenses with the helicopter pilot entry.\n\nA group of three Robinson R66 helicopters participating in the “Searching for the Two Captains” expedition was flying along the route from Amderma Airport to the landing site on Bely Island in the Kara Sea. While they were approaching the island, thick, low cloud cover formed. The crew of the formation leader decided to descend into the clouds to determine their lower boundary and see if it was possible to land. While carrying out this mission, the helicopter crashed to the ground.\n\nThe IAC board’s report it states that “the most probable cause of the R66 RA-06233 helicopter’s crash was the PIC’s loss of flight altitude control during the attempt to establish visual contact with terrain under weather conditions that did not comply with VFR and the pilot’s experience level, which led to the aircraft’s collision with the icy surface of the Kara Sea”.\n\nA large crowd paid its last respects to the deceased crew in the memorial hall of the Troyekurovskoye Cemetery on April 24, 2016. Mikhail Farikh is buried at the Novodevichy Cemetery in Moscow, Alexei Frolov is buried at the Zvyaginskoe cemetery (Moscow region), while Oleg Prodan was buried in at his birthplace in Rybinsk, along with his parents.\n\nIn recognition of Mikhail’s contributions to the development of sound-system competitions, the National Association of Automobile Audio Competitions, АМТ Eurasia, declared the 2016 season the Season in Memory of Mikhail Farikh.\n\nIn spring 2017, work to memorialize convoy BD-5 and the crew of the lost R66 on Belyi Island was undertaken. On March 17, 2017, a large wooden cross was installed on the island at with the support of the non-profit partnership Arctic Development Center. A month later, on April 13, 2017, an AOPA Russia air expedition attached a plaque with the following explanatory text to the cross:\n\nIn 2016, an Il-14 Penguin restored to airworthy condition by enthusiasts was named after Mikhail Farikh.\nMikhail set three speed records along these routes in the class of piston helicopters with MTOW of 1,000 to 1,750 kg:\nFAI Air Sport Medal. This medal is awarded to individuals or groups for “prominent services to the cause of air sports; for instance, work on FAI committees, the organization of world or continental championships, training of new pilots, or development of aviation as a whole, particularly if this is aimed at the involvement of young people in air sports.\n\nThe text of the FAI nomination:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57785989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57785989", "title": "NOAAS Okeanos Explorer Gulf of Mexico 2017 Expedition", "text": "NOAAS Okeanos Explorer Gulf of Mexico 2017 Expedition\n\nNOASS Okeanos Explorer Gulf of Mexico 2017 Expedition was the first of three expeditions on the NOAAS Okeanos Explorer intended to increase the understanding of the deep-sea environment in the Gulf of Mexico. Gulf of Mexico 2017 was a 23-day telepresence-enabled expedition focused on acquiring data on priority exploration areas identified by ocean management and scientific communities. The goal of the expedition was to use remotely operated vehicle (ROV) dives and seafloor mapping operations to increase the understanding of the deep-sea ecosystems in these areas to support management decisions. Many of the areas had no (or low quality) sonar data, these areas were top priority for high-resolution bathymetry collection. The expedition established a baseline of information in the region to catalyze further exploration, research, and management activities.\n\nThrough discussions and information stemming from NOAA and other stakeholders, priority areas of exploration had been identified. The expedition explored deep coral and sponge communities, bottom fish habitats, seamounts, undersea canyons, shipwrecks, and a variety of chemosynthetic habitats including cold seeps, mud volcanoes and brine pools. Using NOAA Ship Okeanos Explorer’s unique capabilities, scientists and other audiences onshore were provided with real-time video footage from deep-water areas in important, yet largely unknown, U.S. waters.\n\n17 ROV dives were conducted from 300 to 2,321 meters of depth to explore the diversity and distribution of deep-sea habitats and associated marine communities in the Gulf of Mexico basin. There were also four midwater exploration dives conducted at depths of 300 to 900 meters to investigate the diversity and abundance of the largely unknown pelagic fauna. During these dives hundreds of different species of animals were observed including several potential new species. Several significant range extensions were observed and several organisms were seen alive for the first time. 105 biological samples (32 primary and 73 associated and commensal taxa) were collected several of which came from unknown species. As well as biological samples eight rock samples and one sediment sample were collected for use in geochemical composition analysis and age dating. Several dives gathered geological data to better understand the geological composition and origin of the Florida Escarpment.\n\nAt least 20 previously unknown chemosynthetic habitats were discovered including methane seeps (some with visible methane hydrate), asphalt seeps, and brine rivers.Most of these had associated chemosynthetic communities that included large siboglinid tubeworm bushes and extensive mussel beds. There were also many areas of reduced sediments and bacterial mats. Asphaltic and authigenic carbonate outcrops hosting large filter-feeding communities were also observed in geologically active areas.\n\nA number of the ROV dives surveyed Habitat Areas of Particular Concern (HAPCs) proposed by the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council. These surveys collected baseline information for management of the area. Six proposed expansions zones to the Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary were explored and surveyed to gather information on future expansion of the sanctuary. Many high-diversity and density coral and sponge communities were discovered in these areas including a \"Madrepora oculata\"-dominated coral garden.\nThe wreck of an early 19th-century copper-clad merchant vessel carrying artifacts including glass bottles, ceramic and porcelain vessels, remnants of a suction bilge pump with cast-iron flywheels, an anchor, and a cast-iron stove was surveyed and explored. Based on initial observations, archaeologists believe the shipwreck likely post-dates 1830 and may have been a merchant ship built for distance over speed.\n\nDuring one of the dives \"Enypniastes eximia\" was spotted on the ocean floor.\n\nDuring dive 17 the ROV \"Deep Discoverer\" encountered large gas hydrate mounds and active gas seeps on the sea floor on the northwestern edge of a salt-cored Horn Dome, 87 kilometers from the mouth of the Mississippi River in Louisiana. The low relief seafloor mounds discovered mantled gas hydrate deposits interspersed with carbonates. Gas hydrate forms when low molecular weight gas (usually methane) combines with water and freezes to form \"methane ice\" under low temperature and moderate pressure conditions. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the ample supply of gas, coupled with appropriate pressure and temperature conditions, cause gas hydrate to form on or just beneath the seafloor. The blue curve on the graph shows the ocean temperatures measured by the conductivity-temperature-depth (CTD) sensor on the Deep Discoverer ROV during Dive 17 at Horn Dome. The sediment temperatures are estimated based on a study that examined nearby well data. Gas hydrate is stable at the seafloor, in the shallow sediments, and from the seafloor to ~600 meters depth in the water column. Such conditions are typical for the deep ocean, but the Gulf of Mexico leaks such large volumes of gas that near-seafloor gas hydrate is more common there than in most locations.\n\nScientists observed dense orange-stained gas hydrate exposed in several mounds. In some places, the same outcrop had both massive gas hydrate that had probably formed below the seafloor and clear, porous gas hydrate made up of hydrate-encased bubbles. Video recording of methane emissions adjacent to one of the massive hydrate deposits provided insights into seafloor gas dynamics. For example, rapid gas emissions produced bubbles, with some bubbles emerging from clear tubes formed from gas hydrate. Slow gas emissions led to the formation of hydrate-coated gas droplets that initially blocked the gas conduit until the pressure inside the droplet increased, causing the droplet to detach. Similar phenomena were filmed on bare seafloor in the Gulf of Mexico during a 2014 Okeanos Explorer expedition.\nThe only macrofauna spotted living directly on methane hydrate outcrops were ice worms, \"Hesiocaeca methanicola\". The ice worms had burrowed into the hydrate, creating small depressions. The worms graze on bacteria growing on the hydrate.Ice worms were also seen in some of the burrows in the surrounding gas hydrate, which appears orange due to impurities. In the image to the right active methane emissions occur from beneath the ledge, through conduits at the base of the inverted droplets attached to the sediment and through a bubble tube at the right of the image. Both the bubble tubes and the inverted droplets are encased in clear gas hydrate.\n\nThe live video feeds of the expedition were shared publicly worldwide with the live video receiving more than 280,000 views via the NOAA Office of Ocean Exploration and Research (OER) YouTube channel. The expedition also conducted six live telepresence interactions with various groups including the Aquarium of the Pacific, Shedd Aquarium, NOAA Gulf Regional Council, University of New Hampshire’s Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping, The Exploratorium, and members of the MIT Media Lab.\n\nNOAAS Okeanos Explorer\n\nNOAAS Okeanos Explorer Gulf of Mexico 2018 Expedition\n"}
{"id": "12008298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12008298", "title": "Neolamarckia cadamba", "text": "Neolamarckia cadamba\n\nNeolamarckia cadamba, with English common names burflower-tree, laran, and Leichhardt pine, and called kadam locally, is an evergreen, tropical tree native to South and Southeast Asia. The genus name honours French naturalist Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. It has scented orange flowers in dense globe-shaped clusters. The flowers are used in perfumes. The tree is grown as an ornamental plant and for timber and paper-making. Kadam features in Indian religions and mythologies.\n\nA fully mature kadam tree can reach up to in height. It is a large tree with a broad crown and straight cylindrical bole. It is quick growing, with broad spreading branches and grows rapidly in the first 6–8 years. The trunk has a diameter of 100–160 cm, but typically less than that. Leaves are long. Flowering usually begins when the tree is 4–5 years old. Kadam flowers are sweetly fragrant, red to orange in colour, occurring in dense, globular heads of approximately diameter. The fruit of \"N. cadamba\" occur in small, fleshy capsules packed closely together to form a fleshy yellow-orange infructescence containing approximately 8000 seeds. On maturing, the fruit splits apart, releasing the seeds, which are then dispersed by wind or rain.\n\n\n\"N. cadamba\" is native to the following areas:\n\nIt is an introduced species in Puerto Rico at Toro Negro State Forest.\n\nThe larvae of the commander (\"Moduza procris\"), a brush-footed butterfly, consume this species. The flowers attract pollinators.\n\nThe botanical name of this species has been the subject of a long taxonomic debate, beginning in the 1930s. The problem arose because scientific names are based on type specimens. In 1785 Jean-Baptiste Lamarck described a specimen under the name \"Cephalanthus chinensis\", stating that it came from Madagascar. In 1830, Achille Richard created the name \"Anthocephalus indicus\", stating that the species came from Asia and that his description was based on the same specimen as Lamarck's \"Cephalanthus chinensis\". (Under the rules of the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants, Richard should have used the name \"A. chinensis\" rather than \"A. indicus\", as he should not have changed the specific epithet.)\n\nThe issue is whether Richard was indeed using the same specimen as Lamarck; the geographical origin is said to be different, and the descriptions do not match; for example in Lamarck's \"Cephalanthus chinensis\" the inflorescences are axillary whereas in Richard's \"Anthocephalus\" they are terminal. If specimens were the same, then \"Anthocephalus\" is a synonym of the Madagascan \"Cephalanthus\" and cannot be a generic name for the Asian kadam tree. If they were different (in spite of Richard's claim that they were the same) then \"Anthocephalus\" could be a generic name for the kadam tree. Based on the latter view, the name \"Anthocephalus chinensis\" has been widely used for the kadam tree.\n\nThe current view taken by most taxonomic sources is that Richard's \"Anthocephalus indicus\" or \"Anthocephalus chinensis\" is a synonym of \"Cephalanthus chinensis\" (now transferred to the genus \"Breonia\" as \"Breonia chinensis\" ), and that the widespread use of \"Anthocephalus chinensis\" for the kadam tree is an error. (This erroneous sense of the scientific name is shown by writing \"A. chinensis\" auct., where \"auct.\" is an abbreviation of the Latin for \"of authors\", i.e. rather than of the correct authority.)\n\nGiven that Richard's name for the kadam tree is incorrect, the earliest name is William Roxburgh's 1824 \"Nauclea cadamba\". In 1984, Jean Marie Bosser created the new generic name \"Neolamarckia\", honouring Lamarck, for the Asian genus which matched Richard's description of his \"Anthocephalus\", transferring \"Nauclea cadamba\" as \"Neolamarckia cadamba\" . However, not all botanical sources have accepted this taxonomic analysis and the name \"Anthocephalus\" is still in use for the Asian genus.\n\nThe fruit and inflorescences are reportedly edible by humans. The fresh leaves are fed to cattle. \n\"N. lamarckia\" is grown as an ornamental, and for low-grade timber and paper. The timber is used for plywood, light construction, pulp and paper, boxes and crates, dug-out canoes, and furniture components. Kadamba yields a pulp of satisfactory brightness and performance as a hand sheet. The wood can be easily impregnated with synthetic resins to increase its density and compressive strength. The wood has a density of 290–560 kg/cu m at 15% moisture content, a fine to medium texture; straight grain; low luster and has no characteristic odor or taste. It is easy to work, with hand and machine tools, cuts cleanly, gives a very good surface and is easy to nail. The timber air dries rapidly with little or no degrade. Kadamba wood is very easy to preserve using either open tank or pressure-vacuum systems.\n\nKadamba is one of the most frequently planted trees in the tropics. The tree is grown along avenues, roadsides and villages for shade. Kadamba are suitable for reforestation programs. It sheds large amounts of leaf and non-leaf litter which on decomposition improves some physical and chemical properties of soil under its canopy. This reflects an increase in the level of soil organic carbon, cation-exchange capacity, available plant nutrients and exchangeable bases.\n\nA yellow dye is obtained from the root bark. Kadamba flowers are an important raw material in the production of ‘attar’, which is Indian perfume with sandalwood (\"Santalum\" spp.) base in which one of the essences is absorbed through hydro-distillation. An extract of the leaves serves as a mouth gargle.\n\nThe leaf extract has recently been used to produce silver nanoparticles for surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy.\n\nThe kadamba flower was the emblem of Athmallik State, one of the princely states of India during the period of the British Raj.\n\nThe kadamba lends its name to the Kadamba Dynasty that ruled from Banavasi in what is now the state of Karnataka from 345 CE to 525 CE, as per Talagunda inscription of c.450 CE. The kadamba tree was considered a holy tree by the Kadamba dynasty.\n\nAccording to tradition the 27 nakshatras, constituting 12 Houses (Rasis) and nine planets, are specifically represented precisely by 27 trees —one for each star. The kadamba tree is said to represent Shatabhisha, roughly corresponding to Aquarii.\n\nKadamba is mentioned in the \"Bhagavata Purana\". In North India, it is associated with Krishna while in the south it is known as \"Parvati’s tree\". Radha and Krishna are supposed to have conducted their love play in the hospitable and sweet-scented shade of the kadamba tree. In the Sangam period of Tamil Nadu, Murugan of Tirupparankundram Hill of Madurai was referred to as a centre of nature worship. He was in the form of a spear under a kadamba tree.\n\nAn episode from the life of Krishna narrates of when he stole the garments of gopis when they were bathing in a pond near Vrindavan. Varuna, the sea-god, had forbidden nude bathing in rivers, ponds and other public places, but gopis often resorted to it. One day, to teach them a lesson, Krishna reached the bank of the pond where they were taking a bath and took away their garments and spread them on the branches of nearby kadamba tree. He himself climbed the tree and hid there behind a branch. After the gopis had bathed, they looked for their garments but found them missing. Suddenly their attention was drawn to the nearby kadamba tree by the stirring of its branches. When they looked up, they saw Krishna hiding there and their garments scattered all over the branches of the tree. Krishna insisted that they come out naked to receive their garments. This episode is portrayed in song, story, painting and artifacts, in the backdrop of the kadamba tree.\n\nKaram-Kadamba is a popular harvest festival, celebrated on the eleventh lunar day of the month Bhadra. A twig of the tree is brought and worshipped in the courtyard of the house. Later in the day, young ears of grain are distributed among friends and relatives. This festive custom has been adopted by the Tulu people. Onam (Kerala) and Huttari (Kodagu) are regional variants of this festival. \"Kadambotsava\" (\"The festival of Kadamba\") is also the festival that is celebrated every year by the Government of Karnataka in honor of the Kadamba kingdom, the first ruling Kingdom of Karnataka, at Banavasi, as it was here that the Kadamba kings organised the spring festival every year.\n\nThe kadamba tree is also associated with a tree deity called Kadambariyamman. The kadamba, which is considered the \"sthalavruksham\" (\"tree of the place\") of the city that is otherwise known as Kadambavanam (kadamba forest) and is present in Meenakshi Amman Temple. A withered relic of the kadamba is also preserved there.\n\nIn Theravada Buddhism, the kadamba tree was where Sumedha Buddha achieved enlightenment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26461220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26461220", "title": "Northwestern Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows", "text": "Northwestern Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows\n\nThe Northwestern Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows is a montane grasslands and shrublands ecoregion of the elevations of the northwestern Himalaya of China, India, and Pakistan.\n\nNorthwestern Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows cover at elevations between in the northwestern Himalayas. They are found in Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir in northwestern India and northern Pakistan, particularly in Kashmir.\n\nThis ecoregion's flora is composed mostly of krummholz and herbaceous plants. \n\nVarious rhododendrons live in the scrub habitat near timberline, as do junipers and birches. Although several species of rhododendron are recorded in this ecoregion, they are represented by a lesser greater diversity than in the eastern Himalaya, where 60 species are reported in the Northeastern Himalayan subalpine conifer forests.\n\nGenera of herbaceous plants include \"Doronicum, Delphinium, Gentiana, Meconopsis, Pedicularis, Anemone, Aster, Polygonum, Primula\", and \"Mertensia\". Scree habitats include \"Caragana, Saxifraga, Draba\", and \"Gypsophila\".\n\nEighty mammals species are reported in this ecoregion. It contains prime habitat for the snow leopard and the Tibetan wolf. Other mammals include the ibex, markhor, blue sheep, tahr, and Himalayan marmot.\n\nThere are 172 bird species in this ecoregion. Important birds include the lammergeier, golden eagle, Himalayan griffon vulture, snow partridge, Tibetan snowcock, and Himalayan snowcock.\n\nThere are 27 known amphibian species. Some of these species include Rhacophorus bipunctatus, Scutiger mammatus, Xenophrys pachyproctus, and Theloderma asperum.\n\nThere are 24 known reptilian species. Some of these species include yellowbelly worm-eating snake, eastern water snake, king cobra, and Laotian wolf snake.\nThis ecoregion is well preserved because of high elevation, difficult climate, and lack of trees. Protected areas include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1227394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227394", "title": "Nyctanthes arbor-tristis", "text": "Nyctanthes arbor-tristis\n\nNyctanthes arbor-tristis, the night-flowering jasmine or parijat, is a species of \"Nyctanthes\" native to South Asia and Southeast Asia.\n\n\"Nyctanthes arbor-tristis\" is a shrub or a small tree growing to tall, with flaky grey bark. The leaves are opposite, simple, long and broad, with an entire margin. The flowers are fragrant, with a five- to eight-lobed white corolla with an orange-red centre; they are produced in clusters of two to seven together, with individual flowers opening at dusk and finishing at dawn. The fruit is a flat brown heart-shaped to round capsule diameter, with two sections each containing a single seed.\n\nThe tree is sometimes called the \"tree of sorrow\", because the flowers lose their brightness during daytime; the scientific name \"arbor-tristis\" also means \"sad tree\". The flowers can be used as a source of yellow dye for clothing. The flower is called Gangaseuli and some where Jharaa sephali in Odisha, India. The flower is the official flower of the state of West Bengal, India, which is also known as Parijat and Siuli in local West Bengal region in India, and for Kanchanaburi Province, Thailand. \"Nyctanthes arbor-tristis\" (sometimes incorrectly cited as \"Nyctanthes arbortristis\" or \"Nyctanthes arbor tristis\") is commonly known as night-flowering jasmine or coral jasmine.\n\n\"Parijat\" (Nyctanthes arbor-tristis), appears in several Hindu religious stories and is often related to the Kalpavriksha. In one story, which appears in Bhagavata Purana, the Mahabharata and the Vishnu Purana, \"parijat\" appeared as the result of the Samudra manthan (Churning of the Milky Ocean) and Lord Krishna battled with Indra to win \"parijat\". Further on, his wife Satyabhama demanded the tree be planted in the backyard of her palace. It so happened that in spite of having the tree in her backyard, the flowers used to fall in the adjacent backyard of the other queen Rukmini, who was favourite of Lord Krishna, because of her superior devotion and humility.\n\nExtracts of the seeds, flowers and leaves possesses immunostimulant, hepatoprotective, antileishmanial, antiviral and antifungal activities \"in vitro\". The leaves have been used in Ayurvedic medicine and Homoeopathy for sciatica, arthritis, fevers, and as a laxative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79346", "title": "Orithyia", "text": "Orithyia\n\nIn Greek mythology, Orithyia or Oreithyia (; \"Ōreithuia\"; ) was the name of the following women:\n\n"}
{"id": "23638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23638", "title": "Outline of physical science", "text": "Outline of physical science\n\nPhysical science is a branch of natural science that studies non-living systems, in contrast to life science. It in turn has many branches, each referred to as a \"physical science\", together called the \"physical sciences\".\n\nPhysical science can be described as all of the following:\n\n\nHistory of physical science – history of the branch of natural science that studies non-living systems, in contrast to the life sciences. It in turn has many branches, each referred to as a \"physical science\", together called the \"physical sciences\". However, the term \"physical\" creates an unintended, somewhat arbitrary distinction, since many branches of physical science also study biological phenomena (organic chemistry, for example).\n\n\nPhysics – branch of science that studies matter and its motion through space and time, along with related concepts such as energy and force. Physics is one of the \"fundamental sciences\" because the other natural sciences (like biology, geology etc.) deal with systems that seem to obey the laws of physics. According to physics, the physical laws of matter, energy and the fundamental forces of nature govern the interactions between particles and physical entities (such as planets, molecules, atoms or the subatomic particles). Some of the basic pursuits of physics, which include some of the most prominent developments in modern science in the last millennium, include:\n\n\nAstronomy – science of celestial bodies and their interactions in space. Its studies includes the following:\n\n\nChemistry – branch of science that studies the composition, structure, properties and change of matter. Chemistry is chiefly concerned with atoms and molecules and their interactions and transformations, for example, the properties of the chemical bonds formed between atoms to create chemical compounds. As such, chemistry studies the involvement of electrons and various forms of energy in photochemical reactions, oxidation-reduction reactions, changes in phases of matter, and separation of mixtures. Preparation and properties of complex substances, such as alloys, polymers, biological molecules, and pharmaceutical agents are considered in specialized fields of chemistry.\n\n\nEarth science – the science of the planet Earth, the only identified life-bearing planet. Its studies include the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30504756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30504756", "title": "Pakistan Institute of Physics", "text": "Pakistan Institute of Physics\n\nPakistan Institute of Physics (PIP) of the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore is a national research institute in Pakistan. It is a scientific charity devoted to increase the practice and understanding of physics. PIP is controlled by the University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore.\n\nIt is the main and the professional body for the physicists in Pakistan and grant research licenses to the physicists to carry out their professional research in the different institutes of Pakistan. Its functions are to regulate physical research in the institution.\n\nThe PIP was established in 1976 by the eminent physicists of Pakistan after the successful establishment of International Nathiagali Summer College on Physics and Contemporary Needs (INSC). The main objective of PIP is to promote the advancement and dissemination of the knowledge of physics, pure and applied and the elevation of the profession of physics. In this way PIP is playing its role for the improvement of physics education and research in Pakistan.\n\nEach year, PIP carried out both national and international conferences. The Institute of Physics (PIP) promotes research to the fields of Nano Science and Technology, Laser-Material Interactions, Plasma Physics, materials Science, Quantum Well Devices and Super Conductivity, photovoltaic, Atomic and Nuclear Physics, Medical and Health Physics, Atmospheric Physics, Meteorology and Environmental Physics.\n\n"}
{"id": "199661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199661", "title": "Rock (geology)", "text": "Rock (geology)\n\nRock or stone is a natural substance, a solid aggregate of one or more minerals or mineraloids. For example, granite, a common rock, is a combination of the minerals quartz, feldspar and biotite. The Earth's outer solid layer, the lithosphere, is made of rock.\n\nRock has been used by humankind throughout history. The minerals and metals in rocks have been essential to human civilization.\n\nThree major groups of rocks are defined: igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic. The scientific study of rocks is called petrology, which is an essential component of geology.\n\nRocks are composed of grains of minerals, which are homogeneous solids formed from a chemical compound arranged in an orderly manner. The aggregate minerals forming the rock are held together by chemical bonds. The types and abundance of minerals in a rock are determined by the manner in which it was formed.\n\nMany rocks contain silica (SiO); a compound of silicon and oxygen that forms 74.3% of the Earth's crust. This material forms crystals with other compounds in the rock. The proportion of silica in rocks and minerals is a major factor in determining their names and properties.\n\nRocks are classified according to characteristics such as mineral and chemical composition, permeability, texture of the constituent particles, and particle size. These physical properties are the result of the processes that formed the rocks. Over the course of time, rocks can transform from one type into another, as described by a geological model called the rock cycle. This transformation produces three general classes of rock: igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic.\n\nThose three classes are subdivided into many groups. There are, however, no hard-and-fast boundaries between allied rocks. By increase or decrease in the proportions of their minerals, they pass through gradations from one to the other; the distinctive structures of one kind of rock may thus be traced gradually merging into those of another. Hence the definitions adopted in rock names simply correspond to selected points in a continuously graduated series.\n\nIgneous rock (derived from the Latin word \"igneus,\" meaning \"of fire,\" from \"ignis\" meaning \"fire)\" is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. This magma may be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust. Typically, the melting of rocks is caused by one or more of three processes: an increase in temperature, a decrease in pressure, or a change in composition.\n\nIgneous rocks are divided into two main categories:\n\n\nThe chemical abundance and the rate of cooling of magma typically forms a sequence known as Bowen's reaction series. Most major igneous rocks are found along this scale.\n\nAbout 64.7% of the Earth's crust by volume consists of igneous rocks, making it the most plentiful category. Of these, 66% are basalts and gabbros, 16% are granite, and 17% granodiorites and diorites. Only 0.6% are syenites and 0.3% peridotites and dunites. The oceanic crust is 99% basalt, which is an igneous rock of mafic composition. Granites and similar rocks, known as meta-granitoids, form much of the continental crust. Over 700 types of igneous rocks have been described, most of them having formed beneath the surface of Earth's crust. These have diverse properties, depending on their composition and the temperature and pressure conditions in which they were formed.\n\nSedimentary rocks are formed at the earth's surface by the accumulation and cementation of fragments of earlier rocks, minerals, and organisms or as chemical precipitates and organic growths in water (sedimentation). This process causes clastic sediments (pieces of rock) or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate, or for minerals to chemically precipitate (evaporite) from a solution. The particulate matter then undergoes compaction and cementation at moderate temperatures and pressures (diagenesis).\n\nBefore being deposited, sediments are formed by weathering of earlier rocks by erosion in a source area and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers (agents of denudation). Mud rocks comprise 65% (mudstone, shale and siltstone); sandstones 20 to 25% and carbonate rocks 10 to 15% (limestone and dolostone). About 7.9% of the crust by volume is composed of sedimentary rocks, with 82% of those being shales, while the remainder consists of limestone (6%), sandstone and arkoses (12%). Sedimentary rocks often contain fossils. Sedimentary rocks form under the influence of gravity and typically are deposited in horizontal or near horizontal layers or strata and may be referred to as stratified rocks. A small fraction of sedimentary rocks deposited on steep slopes will show cross bedding where one layer stops abruptly along an interface where another layer eroded the first as it was laid atop the first.\n\nMetamorphic rocks are formed by subjecting any rock type—sedimentary rock, igneous rock or another older metamorphic rock—to different temperature and pressure conditions than those in which the original rock was formed. This process is called metamorphism, meaning to \"change in form\". The result is a profound change in physical properties and chemistry of the stone. The original rock, known as the protolith, transforms into other mineral types or other forms of the same minerals, by recrystallization. The temperatures and pressures required for this process are always higher than those found at the Earth's surface: temperatures greater than 150 to 200 °C and pressures of 1500 bars. Metamorphic rocks compose 27.4% of the crust by volume.\n\nThe three major classes of metamorphic rock are based upon the formation mechanism. An intrusion of magma that heats the surrounding rock causes contact metamorphism—a temperature-dominated transformation. Pressure metamorphism occurs when sediments are buried deep under the ground; pressure is dominant, and temperature plays a smaller role. This is termed burial metamorphism, and it can result in rocks such as jade. Where both heat and pressure play a role, the mechanism is termed regional metamorphism. This is typically found in mountain-building regions.\n\nDepending on the structure, metamorphic rocks are divided into two general categories. Those that possess a texture are referred to as foliated; the remainders are termed non-foliated. The name of the rock is then determined based on the types of minerals present. Schists are foliated rocks that are primarily composed of lamellar minerals such as micas. A gneiss has visible bands of differing lightness, with a common example being the granite gneiss. Other varieties of foliated rock include slates, phyllites, and mylonite. Familiar examples of non-foliated metamorphic rocks include marble, soapstone, and serpentine. This branch contains quartzite—a metamorphosed form of sandstone—and hornfels.\n\nThe use of rocks has had a huge impact on the cultural and technological development of the human race. Rocks have been used by humans and other hominids for at least 2.5 million years. Lithic technology marks some of the oldest and continuously used technologies. The mining of rocks for their metal ore content has been one of the most important factors of human advancement, which has progressed at different rates in different places in part because of the kind of metals available from the rocks of a region.\n\nMining is the extraction of valuable minerals or other geological materials from the earth, from an ore body, vein or (coal) seam. This term also includes the removal of soil. Materials recovered by mining include base metals, precious metals, iron, uranium, coal, diamonds, limestone, oil shale, rock salt and potash. Mining is required to obtain any material that cannot be grown through agricultural processes, or created artificially in a laboratory or factory. Mining in a wider sense comprises extraction of any resource (e.g. petroleum, natural gas, salt or even water) from the earth.\n\nMining of rock and metals has been done since prehistoric times. Modern mining processes involve prospecting for ore bodies, analysis of the profit potential of a proposed mine, extraction of the desired materials and finally reclamation of the land to prepare it for other uses once mining ceases.\n\nThe nature of mining processes creates a potential negative impact on the environment both during the mining operations and for years after the mine has closed. This impact has led to most of the world's nations adopting regulations to manage negative effects of mining operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "262108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262108", "title": "Sandalwood", "text": "Sandalwood\n\nSandalwood is a class of woods from trees in the genus \"Santalum\". The woods are heavy, yellow, and fine-grained, and unlike many other aromatic woods, they retain their fragrance for decades. Sandalwood oil is extracted from the woods for use. Sandalwood is the second-most expensive wood in the world, after African blackwood. Both the wood and the oil produce a distinctive fragrance that has been highly valued for centuries. Consequently, species of these slow-growing trees have suffered overharvesting in the past century.\n\nSandalwoods are medium-sized hemiparasitic trees, and part of the same botanical family as European mistletoe. Notable members of this group are Indian sandalwood (\"Santalum album\") and Australian sandalwood (\"Santalum spicatum\"); others in the genus also have fragrant wood. These are found in India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Australia, Indonesia, Hawaii, and other Pacific Islands.\n\nVarious unrelated plants with similarly scented wood or oil include:\n\nProducing commercially valuable sandalwood with high levels of fragrance oils requires \"Santalum\" trees to be a minimum of 15 years old (\"S. album\") the age at which they will be harvested in Western Australia – the yield, quality and volume are still to be clearly understood. Yield of oil tends to vary depending on the age and location of the tree; usually, the older trees yield the highest oil content and quality. Australia likely will be the largest producer of \"S. album\" by 2018, the majority grown around Kununurra, Western Australia. Western Australian sandalwood is also grown in plantations in its traditional growing area in the wheatbelt east of Perth, where more than are in plantations. Currently, Western Australian sandalwood is only wild harvested and can achieve upwards of AU$16,000 per tonne, which has sparked a growing illegal trade speculated to be worth AU$2.5 million in 2012.\n\nSandalwood is expensive compared to other types of woods, so to maximize profit, sandalwood is harvested by removing the entire tree instead of sawing it down at the trunk close to ground level. This way wood from the stump and root, which possesses high levels of sandalwood oil, can also be processed and sold.\n\nSandalwood oil has a distinctive soft, warm, smooth, creamy, and milky precious-wood scent. It imparts a long-lasting, woody base to perfumes from the oriental, woody, \"fougère\", and \"chypre\" families, as well as a fixative to floral and citrus fragrances. When used in smaller proportions in a perfume, it acts as a fixative, enhancing the longevity of other, more volatile, materials in the composite. Sandalwood is also a key ingredient in the \"floriental\" (floral-ambery) fragrance family – when combined with white florals such as jasmine, ylang ylang, gardenia, plumeria, orange blossom, tuberose, etc.\n\nSandalwood oil in India is widely used in the cosmetic industry. The main source of true sandalwood, \"S. album\", is a protected species, and demand for it cannot be met. Many species of plants are traded as \"sandalwood\". The genus \"Santalum\" has more than 19 species. Traders often accept oil from closely related species, as well as from unrelated plants such as West Indian sandalwood (\"Amyris balsamifera\") in the family Rutaceae or bastard sandalwood (\"Myoporum sandwicense\", Myoporaceae). However, most woods from these alternative sources lose their aroma within a few months or years.\n\nIsobornyl cyclohexanol is a synthetic fragrance chemical produced as an alternative to the natural product.\n\nSandalwood's main components are the two isomers of santalol (about 75%). It is used in aromatherapy and to prepare soaps.\n\nDue to its low fluorescence and optimal refractive index, sandalwood oil is often employed as an immersion oil within ultraviolet and fluorescence microscopy.\n\nAustralian Aboriginals eat the seed kernels, nuts, and fruit of local sandalwoods, such as \"quandong\" (\"S. acuminatum\").\nEarly Europeans in Australia used \"quandong\" in cooking damper by infusing it with its leaves, and in making jams, pies, and chutneys from the fruit. In Scandinavia, pulverised bark from red sandalwood (\"Pterocarpus soyauxii\") is used - with other tropical spices - when marinating anchovies and some types of pickled herring such as \"matjes\", sprat, and certain types of traditional \"spegesild\", inducing a redish colour and slightly perfumed flavour.\n\nPresent-day chefs have begun experimenting in using the nut as a substitute for macadamia nuts or a bush food substitute for almonds, hazelnuts, and others in Southeast Asian-styled cuisine. The oil is also used as a flavor component in different food items, including candy, ice cream, baked food, puddings, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, and gelatin. The flavoring is used at levels below 10 ppm, the highest possible level for use in food products being 90 ppm.\n\nSandalwood must be distilled so that the oil can be extracted from within. Many different methods are used, including steam distillation, water distillation, CO extraction, and solvent extractions. Steam distillation is the most common method used by sandalwood companies. It occurs in a four-step process, incorporating boiling, steaming, condensation, and separation. Water is heated to high temperatures (140-212°F) and is then passed through the wood. The oil is very tightly bound within the cellular structure of the wood, so the high heat of the steam causes the oil to be released. The mixture of steam and oil is then cooled and separated so that the essential oil can be collected. This process is much longer than any other essential oil's distillation, taking 14 to 36 hours to complete, but generally produces much higher quality oil. Water, or hydro, distillation is the more traditional method of sandalwood extraction which involves soaking the wood in water and then boiling it until the oil is released. This method is not used as much anymore because of the high costs and time associated with heating large quantities of water.\n\nIndian sandalwood is very sacred in the Hindu Ayurveda and is known in Sanskrit as \"vhandana.\" The wood is used for worshipping the god Shiva, and it is believed that goddess Lakshmi lives in the sandalwood tree. The wood of the tree is made into a paste using sandalwood powder, and this paste is integral to rituals and ceremonies, to make religious utensils, to decorate the icons of the deities, and to calm the mind during meditation and prayer. It is also distributed to devotees, who apply it to their foreheads or necks and chests. Preparation of the paste is a duty fit only for the pure, so is entrusted in temples and during ceremonies only to priests.\n\nThe paste is prepared by grinding wood by hand upon granite slabs shaped for the purpose. With the slow addition of water, a thick paste results (called \"kalabham\" \"കളഭം\" in Malayalam language and \"gandha\" ಗಂಧ in Kannada), which is mixed with saffron or other such pigments to make \"chandanam\". \"Chandanam\", further mixed with herbs, perfumes, pigments, and some other compounds, results in \"javadhu\". \"Kalabham, chandanam,\" and \"javadhu\" are dried and used as \"kalabham\" powder, \"chandanam\" powder, and \"javadhu\" powder, respectively. \"Chandanam\" powder is very popular in India and is also used in Nepal. In Tirupati after religious tonsure, sandalwood paste is applied to protect the skin. In Hinduism and Ayurveda, sandalwood is thought to bring one closer to the divine. Thus, it is one of the most used holy elements in Hindu and Vedic societies.\n\nSandalwood use is integral part of daily practices of Jainism. Sandalwood paste mixed with saffron is used to worship \"tirthankar\" Jain deities. Sandalwood powder is showered as blessings by Jain monks and nuns (\"sadhus\" and \"sadhvis\") to their disciples and followers. Sandalwood garlands are used to dress the body during Jain cremation ceremonies. During the festival of Mahamastakabhisheka that is held once in every 12 years, the statue of Gommateshwara is then bathed and anointed with libations such as milk, sugarcane juice, and saffron paste, and sprinkled with powders of sandalwood, turmeric, and vermilion.\n\nSandalwood is mentioned in various \"suttas\" of the Pāli Canon. In some Buddhist traditions, sandalwood is considered to be of the \"padma\" (lotus) group and attributed to Amitabha Buddha. Sandalwood scent is believed by some to transform one's desires and maintain a person's alertness while in meditation. It is also one of the most popular scents used when offering incense to the Buddha and the guru.\n\nIn \"sufi\" tradition, sandalwood paste is applied on the \"sufi\"’s grave by the disciples as a mark of devotion. It is practiced particularly among the Indian Subcontinent disciples. In the Tamil culture irrespective of religious identity, sandalwood paste or powder is applied to the graves of sufis as a mark of devotion and respect.\n\nSandalwood, along with agarwood, is the most commonly used incense material by the Chinese and Japanese in worship and various ceremonies. However, some sects of Taoists, following the Ming Dynasty Taoist Manual, do not use sandalwood (as well as benzoin resin, frankincense, foreign produced) incense and instead either use agarwood, or better still \"Acronychia pedunculata\", in worship. In Korean Shamanism, sandalwood is considered the Tree of Life.\n\nZoroastrians offer sandalwood twigs to the \"afarganyu,\" the urn in which the fire is kept at the fire temple (called \"agiyari\" in Gujarati and \"dar-e mehr\" in Persian), to keep the fire burning during religious ceremonies. After the firekeeping priests complete the ceremony, attendees are allowed to come up to the \"afarganyu\" and place their own pieces of sandalwood into the fire. Fire has been a sacred symbol in the Zoroastrian religion since ancient times and it is considered very important to keep the fires in the temples constantly burning. Because of its high sensitivity to fire, sandalwood works very well for this. Also, the wood has been accepted by the Yasna and Yashts as an appropriate fuel for the fire. It is offered to all of the three grades of fire in the fire temple, including the Atash Dadgahs. Sandalwood is not offered to the \"divo\", a smaller lamp that is kept in the homes of Zoroastrians. Often, money is offered to the \"mobad\" (for religious expenditures) along with the sandalwood. Sandalwood is called \"sukhad\" in the Zoroastrian community. The sandalwood in the fire temple is often more expensive to buy than at a Zoroastrian store. It is often a source of income for the fire temple.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9160345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9160345", "title": "Southwestern Arabian montane woodlands", "text": "Southwestern Arabian montane woodlands\n\nThe Southwestern Arabian montane woodlands is a xeric woodland ecoregion of the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nThe ecoregion covers an area of , lying above 2000 meters elevations in the Asir Mountains of southwestern Saudi Arabia and the Western Highlands of Yemen.\n\nThe flora changes with elevation. Evergreen woodland and scrub lies between 2000 and 2500 meters elevation, with \"Olea europaea subsp. cuspidata\" and \"Tarchonanthus camphoratus\" the predominant trees. Above 2500 meters elevation, cloud forests, composed of large shrubs and small trees, can be found on wetter north-facing slopes, mostly made up of \"Juniperus procera\" and \"Euryops arabicus\", covered with the lichen \"Usnea articulata\". On the drier south-facing slopes dwarf-shrub forests of \"Rubus petitianus, Rosa abyssinica, Alchemilla crytantha, Senecio\" spp., \"Helichrysum abyssinicum, Aloe sabae,\" and \"Euphorbia\" ssp. are common.\n\nThe Arabian leopard (\"Panthera pardus\" ssp. \"nimr\") and Arabian wolf (\"Canis lupus\" ssp. \"arabs\") are critically endangered. Other mammals include the hamadryas baboon (\"Papio hamadryas\"), caracal (\"Caracal caracal\" ssp. \"schmitzi\"), rock hyrax (\"Procavia capensis\" ssp. \"jayakari\"), and striped hyena (\"Hyaena hyaena\").\n"}
{"id": "22703906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22703906", "title": "Sri Lanka lowland rain forests", "text": "Sri Lanka lowland rain forests\n\nThe Sri Lanka lowland rain forests represents Sri Lanka's Tropical rainforests below in elevation in the southwestern part of the island. The year-around warm, wet climate together with thousands years of isolation from mainland India have resulted in the evolution of numerous plants and animal species that can only be found in rain forests in Sri Lanka. The thick forest canopy is made up of over 150 species of trees, some of the emergent layer reaching as high as . The lowland rain forests accounts for 2.14 percent of Sri Lanka's land area. This ecoregion is the home of the jungle shrew, a small endemic mammal of Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka has the highest density of amphibian species worldwide. Many of these, including 250 species of tree frogs, live in these rain forests.\n\nThe lowland rain forests cover in total and accounts for 2.14 percent of Sri Lanka's land area. Wet monsoon forests receive of annual rainfall and are situated belove of altitude. Kanneliya, Viharakele, Nakiyadeniya, and Sinharaja, which is a world heritage site are the forests that represent this ecoregion. Bambarabotuwa, Morapitiya Runakanda, Gilimale and Eratne are some of the other forest reserves. Even rainfall throughout the year, and invariable temperature resulted in rich biodiversity. These forests also act as an important catchment area for rivers.\n\nSri Lanka is a continental island, separated from the Asian continent only by shallow Palk Strait. Sri Lanka was once a part of Gondwanaland, until the Cretaceous Period. Then as a part of the Indian Plate, it detached and drifted northward. The Indian Plate collided with the Asian mainland about 55 million years later. Therefore, there are many ancient Gondwana taxonomic groups present in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka first became separated from the mainland Indian subcontinent during the late Miocene Epoch. Due to climatic changes, an intermittent drier region emerged between the moist forests in southwest Sri Lanka and the Western Ghats in India, the closest other moist forests. Although the island has been connected with the mainland repeatedly by land bridges since the initial separation, Sri Lanka's moist forests and its wet forest-adapted biota have been identified as being ecologically isolated.\n\nThe ecoregion partially encircles the Central Massif, which reach above and detached Knuckles Mountain Range. These mountains are represented by their own ecoregion, Sri Lanka montane rain forests. The type of the soil of the ecoregion is red-yellow podzolic soil. The extended Southwestern monsoon in May to September brings more than of rainfall to the ecoregion. The temperature remains constantly between throughout the year. Due to the proximity to the Indian Ocean daily temperatures are relieved by the ocean breezes. Relative humidity ranges between 75%-85%.\n\nThe vegetation of the region is determined primarily by climate, with topography and edaphic conditions contributing secondarily. Two floral communities dominate in the Sri Lankan lowland rain forests - the \"Dipterocarpus\"-dominated (Sinhalese \"\"Hora\") community and the \"Mesua-Shorea\" community (Sinhalese \"Na-Doona\"\"). The \"Dipterocarpus\" community comprises \"Dipterocarpus zeylanicus\", \"Dipterocarpus hispidus\", \"Vitex altissima\", \"Chaetocarpus castanocarpus\", \"Dillenia retusa\", \"Dillenia triquetra\", \"Myristica dactyloides\", and \"Semecarpus gardneri\". The \"Mesua-Shorea\" community comprises \"Anisophyllea cinnamomoides\", \"Cullenia rosayroana\", \"Mesua ferrea\" (the national tree of Sri Lanka), \"Mesua nagassarium\", \"Myristica dactyloides\", \"Palaquium petiolare\", \"Shorea affinis\", \"Shorea congestiflora\", \"Shorea disticha\", \"Shorea megistophylla, Shorea trapezifolia\", \"Shorea worthingtoni\", \"Syzygium rubicundum\", and a sub canopy of \"Chaetocarpus castanocarpus\", \"Garcinia hermonii\", \"Syzygium neesianum\", and \"Xylopia championi\". Virgin forests of this ecoregion have four strata, a main canopy at , a sub-canopy at , a understory, and a sparse shrub layer. Trees of the emergent layer reach above the main canopy to .\n\nSwamp forests situated closer to the coastlines are a distinct habit area within the ecoregion. \"Avicennia-Rhizophora-Sonneratia\" dominated mangroves fringe the coastlines.\n\nAlmost all the endemic flora and fauna of Sri Lanka are confined to the southwestern rain forests. Due to the warm and moist climate and long physical isolation, wet forest adopted species have promoted a high degree of endemism and specialization. More than 60 percent of 306 endemic tree species of Sri Lanka are restricted to this ecoregion. A further 61 species are shared with the montane rain forests and dry forests. The dominant tree family in Asian rain forests, the family Dipterocarpaceae shows a special endemicity. All but one species of the 58 species of the family Dipterocarpaceae can only be found in these rain forests, including two endemic genera, Shorea and Stemonoporus. \"Anoectochilus setaceus\" or \"Wanaraja\" (Sinhalese for \"King of forest\"), an endemic orchid, is only found in undisturbed forests of this ecoregion. Several plant species show highly localized distribution. The lowland and sub montane forests are the floristically richest in Sri Lanka and of all South Asia.\n\nSri Lanka lacks the land area to support large animals. Although fossil records of ancestral forms of rhinoceroses, hippopotamuses, and lions have been found. Despite the small number of species, this ecoregion is home to several near-endemic mammals, including one strict endemic species, the jungle shrew. The two endemic shrews, the Asian highland shrew and the jungle shrew are listed as vulnerable and endangered respectively. The Sri Lanka leopard, the largest carnivore of the island, is identified as threatened. Asian elephants live in small numbers in these rain forests and are listed as endangered. Unlike in dry-zone forests, where they live in large numbers, this ecoregion's elephant population is faced with habitat loss and fragmentation. The Indian hare, fishing cat and rusty-spotted cat are some of the other mammals who dwell in this ecoregion.\n\nThe near-endemic and strict endemic mammals live in the areas listed below. Strict endemic species are marked with an asterisk.\n\n\nThis ecoregion is completely contained within the Endemic bird area of Sri Lanka. Out of sixteen bird species categorized as near-endemic, two species, the green-billed coucal and the white-throated flowerpecker are indigenous. The green-billed coucal and the Sri Lanka whistling-thrush are listed as threatened. The ashy-headed laughingthrush, red-faced malkoha and scaly thrush are the other threatened species.\n\nThe near-endemic and strict endemic birds live in the areas listed below. Strict endemic species are marked with an asterisk.\n\n\nSri Lanka's reptile fauna includes 204 species with 114 endemic species. A further 17 taxa are endemic at subspecies level. The mugger crocodile and the spineless forest lizard are listed as endangered along with eight freshwater fish species. Sri Lanka has the highest density of amphibian species worldwide (3.9 species per ). These include 250 species of frogs belonging to the family Rhacophoridae. Many of these species have only limited range distributions, often less than . These species are also faced with habitat fragmentation and loss.\n\nMost of the Sri Lanka's rain forests were cleared for plantations, originally for coffee and cinchona and then tea and rubber. The remaining forests cover only 4.6 percent of the wet zone. Between 1990-2005, Sri Lanka has showed one of the highest deforestation rates of primary forests in the world. \nA survey carried out in 2005 found that 17 of Sri Lanka's frogs have become extinct in the past decade and another 11 species face imminent threat of extinction unless their habitat is secured. These remaining forests exist as highly fragmented patches. Most of them are less than in extent. Poaching and the extraction of forest products (timber, firewood, medicinal plants) are a problem in almost all forest reserves.\n\nNevertheless, if the existing forests are preserved the condition can be improved, as many of the species of this ecoregion have small habitat needs. There are several protected areas that overlap with the ecoregion. The two most notable are the world heritage site the Sinharaja Forest Reserve and the Peak Wilderness Sanctuary. Altogether, protected areas of this ecoregion accounts for only .\n\nProtected areas that overlap with the ecoregion:\n\n"}
{"id": "19299429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19299429", "title": "Te Mihi Power Station", "text": "Te Mihi Power Station\n\nThe Te Mihi Power Station is a 166 MW geothermal power station owned and operated by Contact Energy, located north of Taupo in New Zealand.\n\nThe resource consent for the power station was \"called in\" by the Minister for the Environment Trevor Mallard under the terms of the Resource Management Act. The appointed Board of Enquiry granted the consent with a set of stipulated conditions.\n\nTe Mihi Power Station uses geothermal energy from the Wairakei geothermal field, which lies in the Taupo Volcanic Zone. It is part of a plan to gradually replace the Wairakei Power Station which will be phased out of production. With Te Mihi in operation, output from Wairakei is decreased by approximately 45 MW, resulting in a net increase of about 114 MW.\n\nThe project was designed and constructed by a joint venture of McConnell Dowell, SNC-Lavalin and Parsons Brinckerhoff. The plant includes two 83 MW steam turbines supplied by Toshiba. The project cost $623 million and was officially opened in August 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "8016461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8016461", "title": "The Emigrants (Moberg novel)", "text": "The Emigrants (Moberg novel)\n\nThe Emigrants () is a novel by Vilhelm Moberg from 1949. It is the first part of \"The Emigrants\" series.\n\nThe story takes place in the 1840s up to 1850. The first part of the novel describes the hardships faced by rural families in Sweden. Karl Oskar Nilsson and his wife, Kristina, own a farm in \"Ljuder socken\" in Småland. They have four children and work hard to make a living, but the poor harvests lead to famine, a catalyst for the beginnings of emigration to the United States in search of a better life. Karl Oskar and his brother Robert want to go, but Kristina doesn't want to leave her home country, knowing that she will never see the rest of their family again. But after the death of their oldest child, she accepts her husband's plans when she realizes that they are in just as much danger from their lives in Sweden as on the big sea and in a New World.\n\nThey pack up all their belongings and book passage in a group with others from their parish. The characters illustrate some of the motives that prompted people to leave Sweden in the 19th century. The travelers include:\n\n\nThe second part of the book tells how they board the ship in Karlshamn, and then how the life goes on during the ten weeks they spend on board – battling sea-sickness and scurvy, travelling across the Atlantic Ocean before finally reaching New York City in midsummer of 1850. The novel ends with the travellers marvelling at the technological wonders of their new home, emblematised in the almost-complete Hudson River Railroad (which would grow into the New York Central) finally opened October 3, 1851.\n"}
