{"id": "38196981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38196981", "title": "Alan Grieve", "text": "Alan Grieve\n\nAlan Thomas Grieve, CBE (born 22 January 1928 in London, England) is a lawyer, company director and chairman of the Jerwood Foundation.\n\nAlan Grieve was educated at Aldenham School and Trinity Hall, Cambridge. He undertook National Service and was commissioned in 1949 in the Royal Armoured Corps; he subsequently served as a Territorial Army officer in the City of London Yeomanry (Rough Riders). He joined the Gray's Inn solicitors Taylor & Humbert in 1958 after gaining commercial, city and merger and acquisition experience as an assistant solicitor at Slaughter and May. He became senior partner of Taylor & Humbert in 1980. During those 22 years the firms expanded as a commercial and private client practice and established Interlex, an international grouping of lawyers.\n\nGrieve organised and managed the merger of Taylor & Humbert with the City firm of Parker Garrett and the merged firm was renamed Taylor Garrett where Grieve remained the Senior Partner until 1989 when Taylor Garrett merged with Joynson Hicks to become Taylor Joynson Garrett. Grieve remained a consultant to the enlarged firm which is now Taylor Wessing.\n\nGrieve established the Jerwood Foundation for his client, John Jerwood, in 1977 and has been running it as chairman since Jerwood's death in 1991, responsible for the distribution of some ₤90 million in funding for the arts in Britain, as well as for accumulating the foundation's art collection now on display at the Jerwood Gallery at Hastings. He was honoured with a CBE for services to the arts, in 2003.\n\nGrieve has five children; his eldest daughter is Amanda Harlech, Charles Grieve is managing director of Brandcast Media, Lara Wardle is Director of the Jerwood Foundation and Tom Grieve is the architect responsible for the new Jerwood Gallery.\n\n"}
{"id": "56691152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56691152", "title": "Anne Worsley", "text": "Anne Worsley\n\nAnne Worsley (1588 – 1644) was an English nun. She was the founding prioress of the English Carmelite convent in Antwerp.\n\nWorsley's parents were John and Eleanor Worsley who had lived on the Isle of Wight but the were persecuted because they were Roman Catholics and they went into exile. Anne decided on a religious life at the age of fifteen when she was living abroad. She decided to be a nun and opted for the Carmelites. She was the founding prioress of the English Carmelite convent in Antwerp where her first novice was younger sister Theresa. She had visited Antwerp with her mentor Anne of Saint Bartholomew and other sources attribute the leadership of the Antwerp convent to her until she died in 1626.\n\nWorsley died in 1644.\n"}
{"id": "20125815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20125815", "title": "Ari Jósefsson", "text": "Ari Jósefsson\n\nAri Jósefsson (28 August 1939 – 18 June 1964) was an Icelandic poet. He was a student of romance studies in Barcelona and Bucharest and published only one book of poetry during his lifetime. When he was on his way home to Reykjavík after completing his Romanian language studies in Bucharest, Jósefsson tragically fell overboard from the ship Gullfoss and drowned on June 18, 1964.\n\n\"Nei\" (1961)\n\n"}
{"id": "1301518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1301518", "title": "Armand Pien", "text": "Armand Pien\n\nArmand Pien (1920 – 2003) was a Belgian weatherman for 37 years. He was popular because his weather predictions were funny and somewhat cryptic. \n\nAfter he retired from national television he had a daily (Monday – Friday) weather talk on the East Flanders department of Belgium national radio. He did this until the Friday before his death; he died the following Monday.\n\nIn 2005 a small museum was opened in Hoeilaart, Belgium dedicated to him.\n\n"}
{"id": "3555804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3555804", "title": "Athis (mythology)", "text": "Athis (mythology)\n\nIn Book V of Ovid's mock-epic \"Metamorphoses\", Athis is a young demigod from India, son of Limnaee, a nymph of the Ganges. He was follower of Phineus. During a quarrel between Perseus and Phineus, Perseus killed Athis, who was preparing to shoot his bow, with a log that had been smoldering in the middle of the altar. The Assyrian Lycabas, wept for his fallen comrade, and attempted to avenge him, shooting an arrow at Perseus from Athis's bow. However, Perseus avoided the arrow, and Lycabas, too, fell.\n\n"}
{"id": "17366774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17366774", "title": "Beauchamp Bagenal", "text": "Beauchamp Bagenal\n\nBeauchamp Bagenal (1741 – 1 May 1802) was an Irish rake, buck, duellist and politician.\n\nHe was born in County Carlow in 1741, son of Walter Bagenal, and his second wife Eleanor Beauchamp, and inherited the family estates aged 11. Bagenal gained a reputation as a hell raiser and serial heartbreaker, and was reportedly described as the handsomest man in Ireland. According to Jonah Barrington, on his Grand Tour, Bagenal:\n\nfought a prince, jilted a princess, intoxicated the Doge of Venice, carried off a duchess from Madrid, scaled the walls of a convent in Lisbon and fought a duel in Paris,\n\nThe jilted Princess referred to above was Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, afterwards married to George III of England\n\nAt his home, Dunleckney, Muine Bheag, County Carlow, he earned the nickname \"King\" Bagenal based on his lavish entertaining and the autocratic manner with which he ran what was virtually a court. Meals were \"primarily drinking bouts. At table, he kept a brace of duelling pistols handy, one for tapping the barrel of claret, the other for dealing with any of his guests who failed to drink enough to send him reeling from the table. Dinner was followed by compulsory all night revels.\"\n\nBagenal was less violent than his later reputation. There is no proof that he shot all, or even many, of his guests. He fought as few as a dozen duels, a derisory number compared to the great duellists of his day. One of the twelve was against his own cousin, Bagenal Harvey. Harvey fired first, but missed, to Bagenal's delight. \"You damn you villain? Do you know you had like to kill your own godfather? Go back to Dunleckney, you dog, and have a good breakfast ready for us. I only wanted to see if you were stout.\"\n\nA number of other anecdotes of Bagenal's wildness and eccentricity exist online.\n\nBagenal was lame, and therefore, when fighting had to lean against a tombstone. He represented Enniscorthy in the Irish House of Commons from 1761 to 1768. He sat then as Member of Parliament (MP) for Carlow County between 1768 and 1776 and again between 1778 and 1783.\n\nBy his wife Maria he had three children; he had at least one illegitimate child, Sarah.\n"}
{"id": "31752546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31752546", "title": "Billy Bridges", "text": "Billy Bridges\n\nBilly Bridges (born 22 March 1984) is a Canadian ice sledge hockey and wheelchair basketball player. Born in Summerside, he has spina bifida. On July 1, 2011, Bridges married former Olympic women's ice hockey player Sami Jo Small.\n\nHe began playing ice sledge hockey in 1997, aged 12, for the Kitchener Sidewinders. Aged 14, he was selected for Canada's national team, the youngest player ever to be picked. He has World Championship golds from 2000, 2008, 2013 and 2017 and Paralympic gold from 2006, where he was picked for the All-Star Team.\n\nAs well as ice sledge hockey, he has a career as a wheelchair basketball player, including seven Canadian titles with Team Ontario. In 2001, he also competed at the Junior World Championships, and in 2005 was selected as the team's most valuable player (MVP).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8226746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8226746", "title": "Captain Chaos", "text": "Captain Chaos\n\nCaptain Chaos is a fictional character in the Cannonball Run movie series. He is the alter-ego of mild-mannered mechanic Victor Prinzim (Dom DeLuise). \n\nVictor is soft-spoken and unpretentious, but when situations arise that he himself is too timid to handle, Victor is compelled to don his satin cape and cowl and becomes the heroic Captain Chaos.\n\nPsychiatrists have diagnosed Victor as having multiple personality disorder, but Victor himself is convinced that he channels the spirit of an actual living superhero who always manages to arrive just in time to save the day. \n\nAuthor David Quinlan wrote of \"Cannonball Run\" in \"The TV Times Film and Video Guide\", stating \"The best thing in the film is Dom DeLuise who, as the schizophrenic Victor, turns moments of stress into tubby superhero Captain Chaos!\"\n\nCaptain Chaos' costume (which Victor puts on over whatever he happens to be wearing at the time) is a long flowing orange satin cape and matching cowl with an attached black domino mask, and the word \"chaos\" written in white across the cowl's forehead (in the sequel film the cape and cowl are red). After Victor transforms into Captain Chaos, he speaks in a slightly lower voice register with basso profondo inflections similar to that of a typical cartoon superhero. His appearance is invariably prefaced by the vocal fanfare \"Dunn dun DU-UH-UHNNNN!!\", to approximate Chaos' theme music.\n\nMost people who meet Victor are somewhat bewildered at the eventual emergence of his alter ego of Captain Chaos, whose heroism and courage are in stark contrast to Victor's milquetoast personality. Though Chaos is revered by others, he is viewed as an annoyance to Victor's boss and close friend, J.J. McClure (Burt Reynolds). Because of this, Victor is expressly forbidden to speak the name of Captain Chaos in J.J.'s presence, hence the reason Victor always cautiously refers to the hero simply as \"...Him.\" (usually followed by a twinge of magical music). \n\nNear the beginning of the first film, Victor makes mention of \"...Him\", but audiences are briefly left wondering who Victor is talking about until he and J.J. crash their test race car after being stopped at a police road block; when one of the cops asks who they think they are, Victor, in cape and cowl, emerges from the passenger side and introduces himself for the first time as Captain Chaos while J.J., whom he introduces as his \"faithful companion, Kato\", sits in embarrassment in the driver's seat.\n\nNear the film's end, J.J.'s disdain for Captain Chaos boils over after he loses the race, and J.J. angrily rips the cape and cowl off of Victor's person, but Victor almost immediately dons a new alter ego he names \"Captain USA\", whose cape and cowl are similar, only blue in color, spangled with white stars and with \"USA\" embroidered onto the cowl's forehead. \n\nIn the sequel film, J.J. is more tolerant of the good Captain when he shows up during a fight with the mafia.\n\nCaptain Chaos' \"powers\" include: \n\nIn the first film, when Pamela (Farrah Fawcett) asks Victor how he came to know Captain Chaos, Victor explains: \n\nThe character of Captain Chaos as portrayed by Dom DeLuise has appeared in \"The Cannonball Run\" (1981), \"Cannonball Run II\" (1984), and his alter ego, Victor Prinzim, appeared (in doll form) in the \"Robot Chicken\" episode \"Gold Dust Gasoline\" (2005), voiced by DeLuise.\n\nIn the initial screenplay draft, the alter-ego of Captain Chaos was termed \"Rahul.\" \n\nWashington Redskins' tight end Chris Cooley (2004-2012), was given the nickname \"Captain Chaos\" by his teammates. This nickname was created when teammates bet him he would not go out to the opening coin toss and introduce himself to the opposing team captains as \"Captain Chaos\". He did, and the nickname stuck.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7427740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7427740", "title": "Chris Garland", "text": "Chris Garland\n\nChristopher Garland (born 24 April 1949) is an English former footballer who played in all four divisions of the Football League. He was capped once by England at under-23 level.\n\nA forward, he began his professional career with local club Bristol City in April 1966. He was sold to Chelsea for £100,000 in 1971, and went on to play on the losing side of the 1972 League Cup final. He joined Leicester City in 1974, before returning to Bristol City in November 1976. The club underwent a dramatic decline from the First Division to the Fourth Division and he had to accept a termination of his contract for half the amount due in 1982, though he went on to remain at the club for another season. He later played for Gloucester City, coached at Yeovil Town and managed Minehead.\n\nGarland was born on 24 April 1949 in Ashton Gate, Bristol, England, the second son of Grace and George William Henry, a factory worker and lorry driver respectively. He attended a trial for England Schoolboys, and was signed up as an apprentice at Bristol City in 1964. However, he broke his leg in a park kick-around with friends, and was severely reprimanded by manager Fred Ford. He recovered and went on to sign professional terms with the club five days after his 17th birthday. He made his Second Division debut at Ashton Gate Stadium on 3 December 1966, in a 2–0 victory over Preston North End. This was his only appearance of the 1966–67 season, and the \"Robins\" went on to finish in 15th place.\n\nFord was sacked early in the 1967–68 campaign, and caretaker-manager Les Bardsley made wholesale changes to the first eleven, including a recall for Garland. He played all three of Bardsley's games in charge, and scored in the 3–3 draw with Hull City. He started in new manager Alan Dicks's second game in charge, and remained a first team regular throughout the rest of the season, scoring nine goals in 32 league and cup games. In the FA Cup the club beat Bristol derby rivals Bristol Rovers and Middlesbrough, before losing 2–0 to Leeds United in a bad tempered game that saw Gary Sprake sent off for punching Garland in the jaw.\n\nHe formed an effective strike partnership with big target man John Galley in the 1968–69 and 1969–70 seasons, and was linked with moves away to bigger clubs. On 8 April 1970, Garland won his only international cap, for England under-23 in a 4–1 win over Bulgaria at Home Park; he was a substitute for Paul Edwards. City finished in 19th place in the 1970–71 season, four points above the relegation zone.\n\nGarland was sold to Dave Sexton's Chelsea for £100,000 in September 1971. He was signed as a squad player and found first team opportunities limited, especially after spending a month out injured following a bad tackle from Nottingham Forest's Barry Lyon. He scored his first goal for the club in his fifth appearance, in a League Cup semi-final win over Tottenham Hotspur; he also scored in the second leg. He went on to sing with the rest of the team in \"Blue Is the Colour\", a song to coincide with the final, which went on to reach number five in the charts. He played in the final at Wembley Stadium, in which Chelsea lost 2–1 to Stoke City. The \"Pensioners\" finished the 1971–72 campaign seventh in the First Division.\n\nHe finished as the club's joint top-scorer (with Peter Osgood) in the 1972–73 season with 11 goals, but Chelsea dropped to 12th in the league. The 1973–74 campaign was worse for the club, as star players like Osgood, Alan Hudson and David Webb and management fell out, and they dropped to 17th place in the league. Sexton was sacked in October 1974, and his replacement Ron Suart only lasted until April. New boss Eddie McCreadie allowed Garland to leave the club after receiving bids from Leicester City and Everton that matched the fee Chelsea had paid for Garland. In total he scored 31 goals in 114 league and cup appearances for Chelsea. Chelsea declined in the immediate aftermath of his departure, and suffered relegation at the end of the 1974–75 season.\n\nGarland was sold to Leicester City for £100,000 in 1974; he agreed to join the club without speaking to Everton as he was convinced by manager Jimmy Bloomfield that Leicester were the right club for him. He scored eight goals in ten matches, including a hat-trick in a 3–2 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers at Filbert Street on 22 March, to help the \"Foxes\" to finish three points above the First Division relegation zone at the end of the 1974–75 season. He was one of three regular rotated forwards in the 1975–76 campaign, alongside Frank Worthington and Bob Lee, and City went on to finish seventh; he claimed another hat-trick in a 3–0 FA Cup victory over Sheffield United on 3 January. He scored three goals at the start of the 1976–77 season, but broke Jeff Blockley's cheekbone after punching him during training for what Garland believed was Blockley's rough treatment of the club's apprentices. Garland placed four transfer requests, and was eventually sold back to his hometown club.\n\nGarland was sold to his former club Bristol City for a £110,000 fee in November 1976; during his absence the club had reached the First Division while still under the stewardship of Alan Dicks. Dicks planned to use Garland in a strike partnership with target man Paul Cheesley, but a severe injury to Cheesley meant that Garland had to play as the target man centre-forward despite his small stature. He initially struggled in the role, but Dicks had no other suitable replacements other than Tom Ritchie, who also was not a natural centre-forward. Despite a tough end-of-season schedule City managed to pick up enough to points to narrowly avoid relegation in 1976–77, with Garland scoring winning goals against Leeds United and Liverpool.\n\nHe tore his cruciate ligaments early in the 1977–78 season and missed not only the rest of the campaign but also spent much of the 1978–79 and 1979–80 seasons struggling with the same injury. Dicks departed following relegation in 1979–80, and under Bob Houghton's stewardship they dropped immediately out of the Second Division in the 1980–81 campaign, with Garland again having limited involvement due to his knee and ligament injuries. Houghton sent him on loan to Västerås SK of the Swedish second Division to help him gain fitness. There he scored the winning goal against local rivals IFK Västerås, and helped the club to a third-place finish in 1981.\n\nHe rarely featured under Houghton, and when new manager Roy Hodgson arrived he informed Garland and seven teammates (Julian Marshall, Jimmy Mann, Geoff Merrick, Peter Aitken, David Rodgers, Trevor Tainton and Gerry Sweeney), known as the \"Ashton Gate Eight\", that would have to take voluntary redundancy as part of a last-ditch plan to save the club, which was on the verge of folding; Garland agreed and lost £3,750. He and Merrick then spent six months playing in Hong Kong for Caroline Hill. City suffered a third successive relegation in 1981–82 after dropping out of the Third Division. After relegation to the Fourth Division, Garland would go on to be re-employed by Bristol City manager Terry Cooper for the 1982–83 season, playing as a non-contract player until February 1983, when he retired.\n\nAfter retiring, he spent two years selling fruit and vegetables door-to-door. He also featured in the Southern League for Gloucester City, before returning to professional football as a coach at Yeovil Town. During his time there he got his friend Ian Botham to play for the club and Yeovil won admission into the Football League. However his business was failing and he developed gambling and drinking problems and was contemplating suicide at one stage. He entered the wine distribution business but again his business failed and he was declared bankrupt. He went on to work as a bookmaker's clerk, which only worsened his gambling addiction. He later spent time as manager of Western League side Minehead whilst working as an insurance salesman. He was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1988.\n\nHe married Patricia Cooper in June 1970. They had two sons, Adam and Ryan, and one daughter, Jessica. The couple split after 25 years of marriage. After leaving Patricia he spent time sleeping rough, before he was housed by a property developer who also provided him with casual work. A testimonial with Manchester United raised £81,000 for Garland, which he split between himself and his ex-wife. He married again, to Ruth, in 2004. However his gambling problems remained, and he was again declared bankrupt a few years later. However, with funding from the Professional Footballers' Association (PFA) he was able to undergo pioneering surgery to help relieve his Parkinson's.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41626112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41626112", "title": "Chrysta Bell", "text": "Chrysta Bell\n\nChrysta Bell Zucht, (known as Chrysta Bell) is an American singer, songwriter, model, and actress from Texas. She has worked professionally with filmmaker and composer David Lynch since the pair met in 1999 and together they released two albums in the genre of dream pop. Her voice and musical style are described as “ethereal” and “sensual”. Her new album, \"We Dissolve\", released independently on Meta Hari Records in June 2017, is produced by John Parish, with guests including Adrian Utley, Geoff Downes and Stephen O'Malley. In her first television acting role, Chrysta Bell plays FBI Agent Tammy Preston in the revival of \"Twin Peaks\" that premiered on Showtime on May 21, 2017.\n\nChrysta Bell's mother is also a professional singer, whom she credits for early exposure to music from Michael Jackson, Eurythmics and The Go-Gos, among others. Chrysta Bell started her professional singing career at a young age as a session vocalist in a recording studio owned by her parents in her hometown of San Antonio, Texas.\n\nAfter attending high school in San Antonio, Bell moved to Austin, Texas, and became the lead singer for 8½ Souvenirs. The band was named for the Federico Fellini film 8½ and notable for its Django Reinhardt and gypsy jazz influence as well as a repertoire of songs with lyrics in French, Italian, Spanish and English. In 1997 8½ Souvenirs signed to the RCA Victor label and subsequently released two albums “Happy Feet”(1998) and “Twisted Desire”(1999). The band received some national attention after making an appearance on an \"Austin City Limits\" broadcast in April 1998. That same year they performed as the opening act on an 8-week tour with The Brian Setzer Orchestra.\n\nIn 1999 Chrysta Bell met CAA Agent Brian Loucks who had the idea that David Lynch might want to work with her. Loucks arranged a meeting at Lynch's recording studio and \nthe pair “hit it off”, writing their first song together that day.\n\nLynch included the song “Polish Poem\", co-written with Chrysta Bell, in the final minutes of his 2006 film \"Inland Empire\".\n\nIn September 2011, she released a debut solo album \"This Train\", which was co-written and produced by Lynch and released independently through La Rose Noire Records. The album was officially re-released throughout Europe with additional bonus material on January 31, 2014, through the German-based label, QQ5.\n\nThe pair teamed up again for a 5 – song EP \"Somewhere In The Nowhere\", also produced and co-written by Lynch, released in Oct 2016 on Meta Hari Records.\n\nAlong with Duran Duran, Lykke Li, Karen O, Moby, The Flaming Lips, Sky Ferreira, Zola Jesus, Donovan and Angelo Badalamenti, Chrysta Bell appears on the double LP \"The Music of David Lynch\", performing “Swing With Me”, a song she wrote with Lynch. The album is a live recording of a tribute concert that took place on April 1, 2015, at the historic Ace Theater in Downtown Los Angeles as a benefit for the David Lynch Foundation. The concert was filmed for television as well and subsequently aired on AXS TV. The companion book for the concert, \"Beyond the Beyond: Music From the Films of David Lynch\", includes an interview with Chrysta Bell on her artistic relationship with Lynch.\n\nLynch has said of Chrysta Bell “The first time I saw her perform, I thought she was like an alien. The most beautiful alien ever.” \n\nPhotographer Emma Summerton shot Chrysta Bell for an 8-page feature in the February 2013 issue of Vogue Italia. In May 2014 The Red Bulletin Magazine published an interview and pictorial on her titled “A Real Femme Fatale”. She appeared on the cover of photographer Larry Fink's 2006 book \"Somewhere There's Music\".\n\nChrysta Bell has appeared in the Chinese film \"Once Upon a Time in China and America\" (1997) opposite Jet Li (for which she was credited under her birth name, Chrysta Bell Zucht), the ABC Family reality television series \"Switched!\" (2004), and a commercial for the Ford Motor Company. She plays FBI Agent Tammy Preston in \"Twin Peaks: The Return\", which premiered on Showtime on May 21, 2017.\n\nChrysta Bell practices Transcendental Meditation and believes in reincarnation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4548661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4548661", "title": "David B. Bleak", "text": "David B. Bleak\n\nDavid Bruce Bleak (27 February 1932 – 23 March 2006) was a soldier of the United States Army during the Korean War. Bleak rose to the rank of staff sergeant and was awarded the Medal of Honor, the highest military decoration of the United States, for his actions near Minari-gol, South Korea, on 14 June 1952.\n\nBorn in Idaho, Bleak dropped out of school to become a combat medic, and was deployed to Korea with the 40th Infantry Division. During a mission north into Chinese territory, Bleak's patrol came under heavy attack from fortified Chinese positions. Despite being wounded himself, Bleak rushed the Chinese troops multiple times and killed five of them—four using only his hands—before assisting the wounded, and shielding another soldier from a grenade blast. Bleak is credited with saving the patrol's wounded and ensuring that all of its members returned to allied lines. For these actions, he was awarded the Medal of Honor.\n\nIn the years preceding and following his military service, Bleak worked numerous jobs around Idaho and Wyoming, working as a rancher, dairy farmer, truck driver, and meat cutter before retiring as a radioactive waste technician at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory. He died in 2006 from emphysema, Parkinson's Disease, and complications from a hip fracture.\n\nDavid Bruce Bleak was born on 27 February 1932 to William Bleak and Tamar Bleak (née Young) in Idaho Falls, Idaho, a remote farming community. The seventh of nine children, he dropped out of high school and worked for a time as a farmer and a rancher and also for railroads, but he grew dissatisfied with life in Idaho. He eventually decided to enlist in the US Army, hoping to see the world. Bleak grew to a height of tall and weighed . He was described as humble and quiet throughout his life. Bleak was a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nBleak entered the Army on 1 November 1950, and attended basic combat training at Fort Riley, Kansas. Here, he was selected for medical duty. After the completion of his training, Bleak was assigned to a medical company attached to the 223rd Infantry Regiment, 40th Infantry Division of the California Army National Guard. Shortly after Bleak was assigned to the unit, it was selected for deployment to the Korean War. He was moved to Camp Cooke in Lompoc, California, for advanced medical training in preparation for his deployment.\n\nThe 40th Infantry Division shipped out to Korea in January 1952, and shortly thereafter, Bleak was promoted to sergeant. His unit was assigned to a mountainous area near Minari-gol, South Korea, along the 38th Parallel. By that point in the war, the fronts had largely stabilized, and the duty in the area was characterized by constant, low-level trench warfare and continued battles over the same ground which produced high casualties. Bleak served as a field medic, assisting troops on the front lines instead of in Mobile Army Surgical Hospital units.\n\nOn 14 June 1952, Bleak was part of a patrol of the 2nd Battalion, 223rd Infantry, sent north to probe Chinese forward positions and attempt to capture Chinese soldiers for interrogation. Bleak volunteered to accompany the 20-man patrol of an I&R Platoon on this mission, which was to send them to a sparsely vegetated feature called Hill 499, where Chinese forces were known to be operating. The patrol left United Nations lines at 04:30 Korea Standard Time on 14 June, under cover of darkness. It was preceded by an attack by F Company, 223rd Infantry, to the west which was intended as a distraction. However, as the patrol ascended the hill, it came under heavy Chinese automatic weapons fire which struck the lead elements, injuring several soldiers. Bleak, at the rear of the formation, rushed forward and treated and stabilized several soldiers hit in the initial volley, then followed the remainder of the patrol as it continued its mission.\n\nAs they attempted to continue up the hill, several Chinese soldiers from a nearby trench opened fire, injuring another soldier. According to eyewitness reports, Bleak rushed the trench and dove into it, tackling one Chinese soldier and breaking the man's neck with only his hands, killing him. Bleak was then confronted by a second soldier, whom he reportedly grabbed by the neck, fatally crushing his windpipe. A third Chinese soldier then approached, and in the ensuing scuffle, Bleak used his combat knife to kill him.\n\nBleak then returned to the patrol and attempted to treat more wounded members, but soon thereafter a Chinese hand grenade bounced off the helmet of the soldier standing next to him and landed nearby. Bleak tackled the soldier and covered him with his larger frame to protect him from the grenade, but neither was injured in the ensuing blast. The patrol then continued on its mission and was successful in capturing several Chinese prisoners. However, as it descended Hill 499 to return to UN lines, they were ambushed by another group of Chinese hidden in a trench with an automatic weapon. Three soldiers were wounded in the attack, and as Bleak attempted to run to them, he was hit in the leg. Bleak dressed all four wounds, but one of the men was so badly wounded he could not move. In spite of continued Chinese fire and his own injury, Bleak picked up the wounded soldier and began to carry him down the hill. As he attempted to withdraw with the wounded soldier, Bleak was confronted by two more Chinese. Putting down the soldier, Bleak reportedly surprised the Chinese soldiers by charging them and smashing their heads together with such force that he may have fractured the skulls of one or both of the assailants before pushing them out of his way. Eventually, all 20 men of the patrol returned to the UN lines, but a third of them were wounded. Bleak was credited with saving the patrol, both by promptly treating the wounded and by aggressively attacking and killing or neutralizing five Chinese soldiers.\n\nBleak reportedly suffered nerve damage as a result of his leg wound. His wounds required hospitalization, but he returned to duty on 9 July 1952. His tour in Korea ended shortly after the event. He finished his enlistment by serving in Japan, and on 27 October 1953 he was awarded the Medal of Honor in a ceremony at the White House with President Dwight D. Eisenhower. He retired from the Army as a staff sergeant.\n\nAfter leaving the military at the end of the Korean War, Bleak returned to Idaho. He later moved to Wyoming, where he took various jobs as a truck driver, a grocery store meat cutter, and a rancher. He eventually married and had four children with his wife, Lois Pickett Bleak. in 1966, he moved to Moore, Idaho, where he ran a dairy farm for 10 years. He eventually became a janitor at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, where he worked his way up until his retirement in the mid-1990s as chief hot cell technician, responsible for disposing of spent nuclear fuel rods.\n\nHe died on 23 March 2006, at the Lost Rivers District Hospital in Arco, Idaho, from emphysema, Parkinson's Disease, and complications from a hip fracture. He died the same day as another Medal of Honor recipient, Desmond Doss. At the time of his death, he had nine grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. His body was cremated and his remains were scattered in Idaho, at his favorite fishing location. His family later placed a cenotaph in his honor at the Lost River Cemetery in Butte County, Idaho.\n\nIn 1995 a medical clinic at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, was named for Bleak, and following his death, the Governor of Oklahoma declared 14 June 2007 \"Sergeant David Bruce Bleak Day\" for the 55th anniversary of Bleak's accomplishments. On 14 June 2006, Bleak's family presented his Medal of Honor to the Idaho Military History Museum, where it is now displayed, alongside that of fellow Idaho recipient Gurdon H. Barter.\n\nBleak's awards include:\n\nBleak was one of eight field medics and corpsmen to be awarded the Medal of Honor in Korea. However, he was one of only two-the other being William R. Charette-for whom the decoration was not posthumous. Those recognized after their deaths were Richard G. Wilson and Bryant E. Womack from the Army, and Edward C. Benfold, Richard Dewert, Francis C. Hammond, and John E. Kilmer from the US Navy.\n\n"}
{"id": "52029672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52029672", "title": "Delia Davin", "text": "Delia Davin\n\nDelia Davin (9 June 1944 – 13 October 2016) was a writer and lecturer on Chinese society and particularly Chinese women's stories. She was one of the first foreign scholars to consider the impact of the policies of the Chinese Communist Party on women.\n\nFrom 1988 until her retirement in 2004, Davin taught Chinese history at Leeds University, where she became a chaired professor. She was also head of the Department of East Asian Studies and deputy head of the School of Modern Languages and Cultures. Before going to Leeds, she had taught in the Department of Economics and Related Studies at the University of York, where she was a founding member of York’s Centre for Women's Studies.\nThe British Association for Chinese Studies elected her president for 1993–1994, and the China Panel of the British Academy made her a member, as did the Executive Council of the Universities’ China Committee in London.\n\nDavin was born in Oxford, England, to an expatriate literary family of Irish descent who had emigrated from New Zealand. Her father Dan Davin was an editor at the Clarendon Press and her mother Winnie Davin (née Gonley) was an editor at Oxford University Press. Davin left school at the age of 15 and finished her high school studies through evening classes.\n\nIn 1963, aged 19, she went to Beijing with a group of foreign experts and taught English at the Beijing Broadcasting Institute until 1965. She described her students there in a letter home as \"very serious about their work but [having] a gaiety which saves them from being priggish.\" Her friend, the China specialist John Gittings, later remarked that her contact with these students, many of whom came from working class backgrounds, \"gave Davin an intuitive understanding of the Chinese that would enrich her long academic career\" and that at this time she already showed \"a mature sensitivity for the contradictions of revolutionary China.\"\n\nShe then returned to England and enrolled at the University of Leeds, where she completed a B.A. degree in 1968 and a Ph.D. degree in 1974 in the Department of Chinese. While a student, Davin visited Paris and Hong Kong on research trips.\n\nIn 1975, Davin returned to China and worked as a translator for the Foreign Languages Press, a position arranged for her by her friends Gladys Yang and Yang Xianyi, who were also translators.\n\nDavin was one of the first scholars to study Chinese Communist Party policies on women and the problems of working them out in practice. Her first major work was \"Woman-Work: Women and the Party in Revolutionary China\" (1976), which she published after returning from her second stay in Beijing. The scholar Gail Hershatter called the work \"classic\". She explained that the book followed policies from the 1930s until 1949, but spent the most time and detailed analysis on the 1950s. Chapters treated the Women’s Federation, marriage reform, the effects of land reform and collectivization on women, and the lives of urban women. Davin, Hershatter continued, acknowledged the great changes brought about by the new \"Party-state\", and described the contradictions between the reformist Marriage Law and the realities of its results; women in the countryside were also caught between economic independence and their continued fixed place in patrilocal families. The book, said Hershatter, \"effectively laid out an agenda for much of the subsequent scholarship on women in the Mao years\". John Gittings wrote that the book went \"far beyond the stereotypes offered both by the communist regime and its critics\" and that it probed the \"tensions between a new 'socialist' emphasis on women’s participation in economic and political life and a relatively unchallenged structure of gender and generational relationships in the family.\"\n\nDuring the following years, Davin wrote articles and chapters that analyzed marriage migration, domestic service, and welfare entitlements for Chinese women workers. Her jointly edited book \"China’s One Child Family Policy\" (1985) was one of the first studies of the early effects of that policy. The review in \"The China Journal\" called the essays, though written when the policy was relatively new, \"a timely review of the policy's origins, problems, and prospects.\"\n\nIn 1999, after tracking the changes of the post-Mao economic reforms, Davin published a second major study, \"Internal Migration in Contemporary China\", that used field research, interviews, and published media. She remarked that her own parents' \"stories of the migration of their parents and grandparents from the west of Ireland to New Zealand gave me an interest in the forces that drive people to leave their homes and families in search of a living elsewhere, and a sympathy with the struggles and sufferings of migrants everywhere.\" Dorothy Solinger in China Quarterly wrote that the book was \"more for the initiate than for the specialist,\" but \"rich with observations and covers every major topic that touches on internal geographical movement in China since the late 1970s,\" including the demographic traits of the migrants, state policies, the reason farmers leave the countryside and to come to the city, and the images of these migrants in the media. Although Solinger found \"carelessness\" and a tendency to rely on \"vague words\" such \"few\" and \"in general,\" she found that \"overall this volume stands as an excellent summation ... and is filled with insightful comments, if not encased within an overarching framework.\"\n\nDavin's interests in women's lives extended to other fields. Her 1992 article, \"British Women Missionaries in Nineteenth Century China\" examined women whose lives were supposed to take place only in home and family. It looked at their China careers, their effect as role models, and their own conservative views of what their influence should be.\n\nMao Zedong was another long term focus of research and thought. The senior Mao scholar Stuart Schram both praised and criticized her 1997 biography, noting that Davin's target audience was those \"without a prior knowledge of Chinese affairs\". He said that writers of brief studies like hers often assume that \"because the reader belongs to the uninitiated, he or she is also a semi-literate and write in basic English,\" or authors may take space limitations \"as a pretext not merely for simplifying controversial issues, but for presenting only one side of them.\" Davin, however avoids both of these temptations: \"she writes clearly, evoking the complexity of events and Mao's response to them without hiding her own views.\"\n\nSchram then added that the book's greatest weakness was its treatment of the Yan'an period of Mao's career, in which Davin did not mention the single most important theme, that unlike the International Faction, who had parroted the Marxist dogma they learned in the Soviet Union, Mao had \"creatively developed Marxism in the context of Chinese history and culture.\" By contrast, Schram continued, the chapters on Mao as the ruler of China \"deal subtly but forcefully with all the major issues.\" She puts blame where blame is due: Mao bears a heavy responsibility for one of the great disasters in human history\" (p. 69) and the Cultural Revolution claimed victim after victim, leaving Mao \"heavily reliant on sycophants and incompetents as he himself grew older and less competent.\" (p. 77) \n\nIn 2013, Davin published a short biography \"Mao\" (Oxford University Press, \"Very Short Introduction Series\"; 2013) John Gittings wrote that the book \"rejected current appraisals of Mao as no more than 'a Chinese Stalin with a taste for killing', while recognising that his flawed and contradictory character brought great harm to China...\" The scholar Gregor Benton commented that sometimes \"resisting a jumbo-history doesn't necessarily produce a compelling focus and can lapse at worst into patronizing simplification,\" but that in this case \"a broader picture remains unremittingly central, though not at a cost of nuance and some speculative reflection.\" \n\nDavin was married three times – first to William (Bill) John Francis Jenner, a fellow scholar of China; then to Andrew (Andy) Morgan; and finally in 1997 to Owen Wells, a probation officer. She had three children and three step-children. She died of cancer at home in Ilkley on 13 October 2016, aged 72.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1021149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1021149", "title": "Demographic history of Palestine (region)", "text": "Demographic history of Palestine (region)\n\nThe demographic history of Palestine refers to the study of the historical population of the region of Palestine, which approximately corresponds to modern Israel and the Palestinian territories, and in some sources also western parts of Jordan.\n\nA study by Yigal Shiloh of The Hebrew University suggests that the population of Palestine in the Iron Age could have never exceeded a million. He writes: \"... the population of the country in the Roman-Byzantine period greatly exceeded that in the Iron Age...\" Shiloh accepted Israeli archaeologist Magen Broshi's estimates of Palestine's population during the Second Temple Era, 1,000,000-1,250,000 and noted that Iron Age Israel's population must have been less considering population growth. \"...If we accept Broshi's population estimates, which appear to be confirmed by the results of recent research, it follows that the estimates for the population during the Iron Age must be set at a lower figure.\"\n\nOne study of population growth from 1,000 BCE to 750 BCE estimated the Jewish population of Palestine (Judah and Israel) had an average natural growth of 0.4 per annum.\n\nAfter the Babylonian conquest and during the period of Achaemenid rule, notable drops in the population of Jerusalem, the Sphephelah and the Negev region occurred, while a continuity is maintained in the northern Judean and Benjamin areas. Along the coastal region the Phoenician presence expanded, while the Cisjordan underwent demographic change with the inflow of Moabite and Ammonite refugees, while the southern part of Judea underwent substantive change with the settlement of Edomites. The exilic returnees resettled, perhaps with a heightened sense of their ethnic identity.\n\nThe Achaemenid Empire was conquered by Alexander the Great in the 330s BC. In 160 BCE the continuing Hellenisation of Palestine led to the Maccabean revolt. The composition of the population, from the end of the Hasmonean dynasty had a large preponderance of Jewish elements compared to strictly localized Greek (pagan) centres, together with a dominant Samaritan enclave in Samaria.\n\nThe Roman conquest of Judea led by Pompey took place in 63 BC. The Roman occupation encompassed the end of Jewish independence in Judea, the last years of the Hasmonean kingdom, the Herodian age and the rise of Christianity, the First Jewish–Roman War, and the fall of Jerusalem and the destruction of the Second Temple. The total population of Pharisees, the forerunners of modern Rabbinic Judaism, was around 6,000 (\"exakischilioi\"), according to Josephus.\nLocal population displacements occurred with the expulsion of the Jews from Jerusalem – \"In the earlier revolt in the previous century, 66–73 CE, Rome destroyed the Temple and forbade Jews to live in the remaining parts of Jerusalem; for this reason, the Rabbis gathered instead on the Mediterranean coast in Yavneh near Jaffa\". Dispersal to other parts of the Roman Empire occurred: \n\"No date or origin can be assigned to the numerous settlements eventually known in the west, and some may have been founded as a result of the dispersal of Palestinian Jews after the revolts of AD 66–70 and 132-5, but it is reasonable to conjecture that many, such as the settlement in Puteoli attested in 4 BC, went back to the late republic or early empire and originated in voluntary emigration and the lure of trade and commerce.\"\n\nModern estimates vary: Applebaum argues that in the Herodian kingdom, there were 1.5 million Jews, a figure Ben David says covers the numbers in Judea alone. Salo Wittmayer Baron estimated the population at 2.3 million at the time of Roman emperor Claudius (reigned 41-54). According to Israeli archeologist Magen Broshi, west of the Jordan River the population did not exceed 1 million: \n\"... the population of Palestine in antiquity did not exceed a million persons. It can also be shown, moreover, that this was more or less the size of the population in the peak period – the late Byzantine period, around AD 600\" \nBroshi made calculations based on the grain-producing capacity of Palestine and on its role in the indigenous diet, assuming an average annual per-capita consumption of 200 kg. (with a maximum of 250 kg.), which would work out to the limit of a sustainable population of 1,000,000 people, a figure which, Broshi states, remained roughly constant down to the end of the Byzantine period (600 CE). The proportion of Jews to gentiles is also unknown.\n\nThree events caused the Jewish population dominance to change after AD 70 (in the Late Roman period). The first was the rise of Christianity. The second involved the Jewish Diasporas resulting from a series of Jewish rebellions against the Roman occupation, starting in AD 66 which resulted in the destruction of the Second Temple and of Jerusalem in AD 70 to the subsequent expulsion of the Jews from Jerusalem, and followed by the rebellion against Hadrian in AD 132 – the Bar Kokhba revolt. \n\nThe Bar Kokhba revolt in the 2nd century saw a major shift in the population of Palestine. The sheer scale and scope of the overall destruction, according to a late epitome of Dio Cassius's \"Roman History\", where he states that Roman war operations in the country had left some 580,000 Jews dead, with many more dying of hunger and disease, while 50 of their most important outposts and 985 of their most famous villages were razed to the ground. \"Thus,\" writes Dio Cassius, \"nearly the whole of Judaea was made desolate.\" It would take many years before the Judaean Jewish community recovered from the Bar Kochba war, seeing that for nearly 1850 years Jews no longer formed the majority in Palestine. \n\nThe third event was the 'ascension' of Constantine the Great in 312 and Christianity becoming the official state religion of Rome in 391. Already by the mid-3rd century the Jewish majority had been reported to have been lost, while others conclude that a Jewish majority lasted much longer – \"What does seem clear is a different kind of change – immigration of Christians and the conversion of pagans, Samaritans, and Jews eventually produced a Christian majority\".\nAfter the Bar Kokhba revolt of 132-136 CE the make-up of the population of Palestine remains in doubt due to the sparsity of data in the historical record. Figures vary considerably as to the demographics of Palestine in the Christian era.\nNo reliable data exist on the population of Palestine in the pre-Muslim period, either in absolute terms or in terms of shares of total population. Although many Jews were killed, expelled or sold off into slavery after the AD 66–70 and the 123–125 rebellions, the degree to which these transfers affected the Jewish dominance in Palestine is rarely addressed. What is certain is that Palestine did not lose its Jewish component. Goldblatt concludes that the Jews may have remained a majority into the 3rd century AD and even beyond. He notes that 'Jewish followers of Jesus' (Jewish Christians) would not have taken part in the rebellions'. Non-Christian conversions from Judaism after the Bar Kochba revolt were not given much attention. \n\"Indeed, many must have reacted to the catastrophe with despair and total abandonment of Judaism. Apostates from Judaism (aside from converts to Christianity) received little notice in antiquity from either Jewish or non-Jewish writers, but ambitious individuals are known to have turned pagan before the war, and it stands to reason that many more did so after its disastrous conclusion. It is impossible to determine the number who joined the budding Christian movement and the number who disappeared into the polytheist majority.\"\n\nThe highest population of the 3rd to 7th centuries probably occurred in the Byzantine period. Most scholars consider that the proportion of Jews decreased during these centuries, a loss of dominance not related to any specific diaspora and at dates not agreed to by historians. For instance, by counting settlements, Avi-Yonah estimated that Jews comprised half the population of the Galilee at the end of the 3rd century, and a quarter in the other parts of the country, but had declined to 10–15% of the total by 614. On the other hand, by counting churches and synagogues, Tsafrir estimated the Jewish fraction at 25% in the Byzantine period. Stemberger, however, considers that Jews were the largest population group at the beginning of the 4th century, closely followed by the pagans. In contrast to Avi-Yonah, Schiffman estimated that Christians only became the majority of the country's population at the beginning of the 5th century, confirmed by DellaPergola who estimates that by the 5th century Christians were in the majority and Jews were a minority.\n\nThe Christian-majority population of Byzantine Palestine, having been formed by conversions plus various migrations, was to undergo yet another upheaval. In 629 Palestine was invaded by Arabs from the Hejaz. By 635 AD, Palestine, Jordan and Southern Syria, with the exception of Jerusalem and Caesarea, were in Muslim hands. Jerusalem capitulated in 637.\n\nUnlike the Byzantine era which saw forced conversions of Jews and Samaritans to Christianity, Levy-Rubin advocated that conversion was not commonplace during the early period of the Islamic empire (the Umayyad Caliphate [661 – 750] and the Abbasid Caliphate [750 – 1258]) – \"It has been presumed until now that [the presence of Muslims in Samaria] was solely a result of immigration of Arab Muslims into the area. … a small part of this Muslim population originated in Samarian population which converted to Islam during the early Muslim period mainly as a result of difficult economic conditions for non-Muslims. As of now, this is the only evidence we have of mass conversion to Islam in Palestine during the early Muslim period.\". Arabization of the Levant involved the realm's new subjects adopting the Arabic language and Islam.\n\n\"Very few Arabs were productive settlers of the land, an activity they despised; a few were great landlords who used native tenants to cultivate their estates; but generally they were nomadic tribesmen, soldiers and officials all of whom lived off the jizya (or poll tax) and the kharaj (or land tax) paid by the occupied peoples in return for the protection of their lives and property and for the right to practice their own religion. Because the jizya and the kharaj could be imposed only on non-Muslims, the Arabs had little interest in making converts to Islam, a contributory reason why Syria, Palestine and Egypt would remain overwhelmingly Christian for centuries to come.\"\n\nAccording to Atimal and Ellenblum the Islamization of Palestine had its beginnings in the early Islamic period (ca. 640–1099 C.E.), but had halted and apparently even been reversed during the time of Frankish rule (Kingdom of Jerusalem). In the aftermath of the Muslim reconquest, which began in 1187, and the advent of Ayyubid rule (1187–1260) in parts of Palestine and then the Mamluk rule, it appears that the process of religious conversion was accelerated. With the beginning of the Ottoman period in 1516, it is commonly assumed, and may well be that the Muslim majority in the country was more-or-less like that of the mid-19th century.\n\nDuring the first century of the Ottoman rule, i.e., 1550, Bernard Lewis in a study of Ottoman registers of the early Ottoman Rule of Palestine reports:\nFrom the mass of detail in the registers, it is possible to extract something like a general picture of the economic life of the country in that period. Out of a total population of about 300,000 souls, between a fifth and a quarter lived in the six towns of Jerusalem, Gaza, Safed, Nablus, Ramle, and Hebron. The remainder consisted mainly of peasants, living in villages of varying size, and engaged in agriculture. Their main food-crops were wheat and barley in that order, supplemented by leguminous pulses, olives, fruit, and vegetables. In and around most of the towns there was a considerable number of vineyards, orchards, and vegetable gardens.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century, prior to the rise of Zionism, Jews are thought to have comprised between 2% to 5% of the population of Palestine, although the precise population is not known.\n\nAccording to Alexander Scholch, Palestine in 1850 had about 350,000 inhabitants, 30% of whom lived in 13 towns; roughly 85% were Muslims, 11% were Christians and 4% Jews.\n\nThe Ottoman census of 1878 indicated the following demographics for the three districts that best approximated what later became Mandatory Palestine; that is, the Mutasarrifate of Jerusalem, the Nablus Sanjak, and the Acre Sanjak. In addition, some scholars estimate approximately 5,000-10,000 additional foreign-born Jews at this time:\nAccording to Ottoman statistics studied by Justin McCarthy, the population of Palestine in the early 19th century was 350,000, in 1860 it was 411,000 and in 1900 about 600,000 of which 94% were Arabs. In 1914 Palestine had a population of 657,000 Muslim Arabs, 81,000 Christian Arabs, and 59,000 Jews. McCarthy estimates the non-Jewish population of Palestine at 452,789 in 1882, 737,389 in 1914, 725,507 in 1922, 880,746 in 1931 and 1,339,763 in 1946.\n\nAccording to Dr. Mutaz M. Qafisheh, the number of people who held Ottoman citizenship prior to the British Mandate in 1922 was just over 729,873, of which 7,143 were Jews. Qafisheh calculated this using population and immigration statistics from the 1946 Survey of Palestine, as well as the fact that 37,997 people acquired provisional Palestinian naturalization certificates in September 1922 for the purpose of voting in the legislative election, of which all but 100 were Jews.\n\nIn 1920, the British Government's \"Interim Report on the Civil Administration of Palestine\" stated that there were hardly 700,000 people living in Palestine:\n\nThere are now in the whole of Palestine hardly 700,000 people, a population much less than that of the province of Gallilee alone in the time of Christ. Of these 235,000 live in the larger towns, 465,000 in the smaller towns and villages. Four-fifths of the whole population are Moslems. A small proportion of these are Bedouin Arabs; the remainder, although they speak Arabic and are termed Arabs, are largely of mixed race. Some 77,000 of the population are Christians, in large majority belonging to the Orthodox Church, and speaking Arabic. The minority are members of the Latin or of the Uniate Greek Catholic Church, or—a small number—are Protestants.\n\nThe Jewish element of the population numbers 76,000. Almost all have entered Palestine during the last 40 years. Prior to 1850 there were in the country only a handful of Jews. In the following 30 years a few hundreds came to Palestine. Most of them were animated by religious motives; they came to pray and to die in the Holy Land, and to be buried in its soil. After the persecutions in Russia forty years ago, the movement of the Jews to Palestine assumed larger proportions. Jewish agricultural colonies were founded. They developed the culture of oranges and gave importance to the Jaffa orange trade. They cultivated the vine, and manufactured and exported wine. They drained swamps. They planted eucalyptus trees. They practised, with modern methods, all the processes of agriculture. There are at the present time 64 of these settlements, large and small, with a population of some 15,000.\n\nBy 1948, the population had risen to 1,900,000, of whom 68% were Arabs, and 32% were Jews (UNSCOP report, including Bedouin).\n\nReport and general abstract of the Jewish agriculture was taken by the Palestine Zionist Executive in April 1927.\n\n(p 85) Demography: to enumerate all Jewish inhabitants living in the agricultural and semi-agricultural communities.\n\n(p 86) Number of Settlements: 130 places have been enumerated. If we consider the large settlements and the adjacent territories as one geographical unit, then we may group these places into 101 agricultural settlements, 3 semi-agricultural places (Affule, Shekhunath Borukhov and Neve Yaaqov) and 12 farms scattered throughout the country. In addition, there were a few places which, owing to technical difficulties, were not enumerated in the month of April. (Peqiin, Meiron, Mizpa and Zikhron David, numbering in the aggregate 100 persons).\n\nOf these agricultural settlements, 32 are located in Judea, 12 in the Plain of Sharon, 32 are located in the Plain of Jesreel, 16 in Lower Galilee, and 9 in Upper Galilee. Most of them have a very small population - about one half being inhabited by less than 100 persons each. In 42 settlements there are from 100 to 500 persons, and in only five does the population exceed 1.000. viz.\n\n(p 86) Number of Inhabitants: The aggregate population living in the agricultural and semi-agricultural places were 30.500.\nLength of Residence in Palestine\n\n(p 87 & p 98)The pre-war population accounts for 9,473 persons, which is slightly less than one-third of the present population, whereas the rest are post-war immigrants. Some 10.000 persons settled since 1924, since the so called middle-class immigration.\n\nWhether there was significant Arab and Muslim immigration into Palestine during the 19th and 20th centuries, especially after the beginning of Zionist settlement there in the late 19th century has become a matter of some controversy. It is known that the Arab population of Palestine doubled during the British Mandate era, from 670,000 in 1922 to over 1.2 million in 1948, and there has been considerable debate over the subject on how much of this growth was due to natural increase, as opposed to immigration. Estimates on the scope of Arab immigration to Palestine during this period vary.\n\nIt is known that significant Egyptian migration to Palestine happened at the end of the 18th century due to a severe famine in Egypt, and that several waves of Egyptian immigrants came even earlier due to escape natural disasters such as droughts and plagues, government oppression, taxes, and military conscription. Although many Palestinian Arabs also moved to Egypt, Egyptian immigration to Palestine was more dominant. In the 19th century, large numbers of Egyptians fled to Palestine to escape the military conscription and forced labor projects in the Nile Delta under Muhammad Ali. Following the First Egyptian-Ottoman War, which saw the Egyptian conquest of Palestine, more Egyptians were brought to Palestine as forced laborers. Following the Second Egyptian-Ottoman War, which saw Egyptian rule in Palestine terminated, massive numbers of soldiers deserted during the Egyptian army's retreat from Palestine to permanently settle there. Egyptians settled mainly in Jaffa, the Coastal plain, Samaria and in Wadi Ara. In the southern plain there were 19 villages with Egyptian populations, while in Jaffa there were some 500 Egyptian families with a population of over 2,000 people. The largest rural concentration of Egyptian immigrants was in the Sharon region. According to David Grossman, statistics show the number of Egyptian immigrants to Palestine between 1829 and 1841 exceeded 15,000, and he estimated that it was at least 23,000 and possibly up to 30,000. In 1860, there was significant immigration to Safed by Moorish (i.e. Arab-Berber) tribes from Algeria and a small number of Kurds, while some 6,000 Arabs from the Beni Sakhr tribe immigrated to Palestine from what is now Jordan to settle in Tiberias. In addition, considerable numbers of Turks stationed in Palestine to garrison the land settled there.\n\nIn 1878, following Austro-Hungarian occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, many Bosnian Muslims, apprehensive of living under Christian rule, emigrated to the Ottoman Empire, and significant numbers went to Palestine, where most adopted the surname Bushnak. To this day, Bushnak remains a common surname among Palestinians of Bosnian origin.\n\nThe number of Bedouins who started settling the Negev region from the 7th century considerably increased during Ottoman rule as a result of immigration of both Bedouin tribes from south and east and peasant farmers (fellahins) from Egypt. The Egyptian fellahins settled mostly in the region around Gaza and received protection from Bedouins, in return for goods. Bedouins brought African slaves (abid) from Sudan who worked for them. To reduce frictions and to stabilize the boundaries between Bedouin tribes, the Ottomans established an administrative center in Beersheba around 1900, as the first planned settlement in Negev since the Nabatean and Byzantine times. In the beginning of the 20th century, most of the population of Hebron were descendants of Bedouins who migrated to Palestine from Transjordan in the 15th and 16th century.\n\nDemographer Uziel Schmelz, in his analysis of Ottoman registration data for 1905 populations of Jerusalem and Hebron \"kazas\", found that most Ottoman citizens living in these areas, comprising about one quarter of the population of Palestine, were living at the place where they were born. Specifically, of Muslims, 93.1% were born in their current locality of residence, 5.2% were born elsewhere in Palestine, and 1.6% were born outside Palestine. Of Christians, 93.4% were born in their current locality, 3.0% were born elsewhere in Palestine, and 3.6% were born outside Palestine. Of Jews (excluding the large fraction who were not Ottoman citizens), 59.0% were born in their current locality, 1.9% were born elsewhere in Palestine, and 39.0% were born outside Palestine.\n\nAccording to Roberto Bachi, head of the Israeli Institute of Statistics from 1949 onwards, between 1922-1945 there was a net Arab migration into Palestine of between 40,000-42,000, excluding 9,700 people who were incorporated after territorial adjustments were made to the borders in the 1920s. Basing himself on these figures, and including those netted by the border alterations, Joseph Melzer calculates an upper boundary of 8.5% for Arab growth in the two decades, and interprets it to mean the local Palestinian community's growth was generated primarily by natural increase.\n\nMartin Gilbert estimated that 50,000 Arabs immigrated to Mandatory Palestine from neighboring lands between 1919 and 1939 \"attracted by the improving agricultural conditions and growing job opportunities, most of them created by the Jews\". According to Itzhak Galnoor, although most of the local Arab community's growth was the result of natural increase, Arab immigration to Palestine was significant. Based on his estimates, approximately 100,000 Arabs immigrated to Palestine between 1922 and 1948.\n\nBased on Jewish Agency statistics from 1947, Deborah Bernstein estimated that 77% of Arab population growth in Palestine between 1914 and 1945, during which the Arab population doubled, was due to natural increase, while 23% was due to immigration. Bernstein wrote that Arab immigration was primarily from Lebanon, Syria, Transjordan, and Egypt.\n\nThe overall assessment of several British reports was that the increase in the Arab population was primarily due to natural increase. These included the Hope Simpson Enquiry (1930), the Passfield White Paper (1930), the Peel Commission report (1937), and the Survey of Palestine (1945). However, the Hope Simpson Enquiry did note that there was significant illegal immigration from the surrounding Arab territories, while the Peel Commission and Survey of Palestine claimed that immigration played only a minor role in the growth of the Arab population. The 1931 census of Palestine considered the question of illegal immigration since the previous census in 1922. It estimated that unrecorded immigration during that period may have amounted to 9,000 Jews and 4,000 Arabs. It also gave the proportion of persons living in Palestine in 1931 who were born outside Palestine: Muslims, 2%; Christians, 20%; Jews, 58%. The statistical information for Arab immigration (and expulsions when the clandestine migrants were caught), with a contrast to the figures for Jewish immigration over the same period of 1936-1939, is given by Henry Laurens in the following terms \n\nIn a response to the work of Joan Peters, Paul Blair reviewed her work, as well as the work of other scholars on Arab immigration and the Hope Simpson Enquiry. He concluded that the actual number of Arab immigrants and in-migrants during the British Mandate era was probably between 100,000 and 200,000.\n\nIn a 1974 study, demographer Roberto Bachi estimated that about 900 Muslims per year were detected as illegal immigrants but not deported. He noted the impossibility of estimating illegal immigration that was undetected, or the fraction of those persons who eventually departed. He did note that there was an unexplained increase in the Muslim population between 1922 and 1931, and he did suggest, though qualifying it as a \"mere guess\", that this was due to a combination of unrecorded immigration (using the 1931 census report estimate) and undercounting in the 1922 census.\n\nWhile noting the uncertainty of earlier data, Bachi also observed that the Muslim population growth in the 19th century appeared to be high by world standards:\n\n\"[B]etween 1800 and 1914, the Muslim population had a yearly average increase of an order of magnitude of roughly 6–7 per thousand. This can be compared to the very crude estimate of about 4 per thousand for the \"less developed countries\" of the world (in Asia, Africa, and Latin America) between 1800 and 1910. It is possible that some part of the growth of the Muslim population was due to immigration. However, it seems likely that the dominant determinant of this modest growth was the beginning of some natural increase.\"\nAccording to Justin McCarthy, \"... evidence for Muslim immigration into Palestine is minimal. Because no Ottoman records of that immigration have yet been discovered, one is thrown back on demographic analysis to evaluate Muslim migration.\" McCarthy argues that there is no significant Arab immigration into mandatory Palestine:\n\nFrom analyses of rates of increase of the Muslim population of the three Palestinian sanjaks, one can say with certainty that Muslim immigration after the 1870s was small. Had there been a large group of Muslim immigrants their numbers would have caused an unusual increase in the population and this would have appeared in the calculated rate of increase from one registration list to another... Such an increase would have been easily noticed; it was not there.\nThe argument that Arab immigration somehow made up a large part of the Palestinian Arab population is thus statistically untenable. The vast majority of the Palestinian Arabs resident in 1947 were the sons and daughters of Arabs who were living in Palestine before modern Jewish immigration began. There is no reason to believe that they were not the sons and daughters of Arabs who had been in Palestine for many centuries.\n\nMcCarthy also concludes that there was no significant internal migration to Jewish areas attributable to better economic conditions:\n\nSome areas of Palestine did experience greater population growth than others, but the explanation for this is simple. Radical economic change was occurring all over the Mediterranean Basin at the time. Improved transportation, greater mercantile activity, and greater industry had increased the chances for employment in cities, especially coastal cities... Differential population increase was occurring all over the Eastern Mediterranean, not just in Palestine... The increase in Muslim population had little or nothing to do with Jewish immigration. In fact the province that experienced the greatest Jewish population growth (by .035 annually), Jerusalem Sanjak, was the province with the lowest rate of growth of Muslim population (.009).\nFred M. Gottheil has questioned McCarthy's estimates of immigration. Gottheil says that McCarthy didn't give proper weight to the importance of economic incentives at the time, and that McCarthy cites Roberto Bachi's estimates as conclusive numbers, rather than lower bounds based detected illegal immigration.\n\nGad Gilbar has also concluded that the prosperity of Palestine in the 45–50 years before World War I was a result of the modernization and growth of the economy owing to its integration with the world economy and especially with the economies of Europe. Although the reasons for growth were exogenous to Palestine the bearers were not waves of Jewish immigration, foreign intervention nor Ottoman reforms but \"primarily local Arab Muslims and Christians.\"\n\nIt has been suggested that the British turned a blind eye to large-scale Arab illegal immigration, and instead disproportionately focused on Jewish illegal immigration. In particular, Freddy Liebreich claimed that significant undocumented Arab immigration, much of it from the Hauran region of Syria, did take place during the Mandate era, and that the British authorities largely ignored it. According to Liebreich: \"Jewish illegal immigration was minutely detailed and meticulously recorded but all references to Arab illegal immigration were, perhaps deliberately, obscured.\" He claimed that one major example took place in 1934, when, according to him, approximately 35,000 Arabs illegally immigrated to Palestine from the Hauran, basing this estimate on a claim made by the Governor of the Hauran at the time, who estimated that 30,000-36,000 people from the Hauran had left to settle in Palestine in recent months. By contrast, the British estimated the number of illegal immigrants to Palestine in 1934, both Arab and non-Arab, at 3,000. Liebreich also wrote that many British documents from the beginning of the Mandate era to the 1940s contain references to Syrians from the Hauran being freely admitted into Palestine without a passport or visa, and noted that illegal immigration from the Hauran was mentioned in Parliament a year before the end of British rule in Palestine.\n\nYehoshua Porath believes that the notion of \"large-scale immigration of Arabs from the neighboring countries\" is a myth \"proposed by Zionist writers\". He writes:\n\nAs all the research by historian Fares Abdul Rahim and geographers of modern Palestine shows, the Arab population began to grow again in the middle of the nineteenth century. That growth resulted from a new factor: the demographic revolution. Until the 1850s there was no \"natural\" increase of the population, but this began to change when modern medical treatment was introduced and modern hospitals were established, both by the Ottoman authorities and by the foreign Christian missionaries. The number of births remained steady but infant mortality decreased. This was the main reason for Arab population growth. ... No one would doubt that some migrant workers came to Palestine from Syria and Trans-Jordan and remained there. But one has to add to this that there were migrations in the opposite direction as well. For example, a tradition developed in Hebron to go to study and work in Cairo, with the result that a permanent community of Hebronites had been living in Cairo since the fifteenth century. Trans-Jordan exported unskilled casual labor to Palestine; but before 1948 its civil service attracted a good many educated Palestinian Arabs who did not find work in Palestine itself. Demographically speaking, however, neither movement of population was significant in comparison to the decisive factor of natural increase.\n\nDaniel Pipes responded to Porath by granting that \"From Time Immemorial\" quoted carelessly, used statistics sloppily, and ignored inconvenient facts. Nonetheless, he explained that:\nMiss Peters's central thesis is that a substantial immigration of Arabs to Palestine took place during the first half of the twentieth century. She supports this argument with an array of demographic statistics and contemporary accounts, the bulk of which have not been questioned by any reviewer, including Porath.\nPorath replied with an array of demographic data to support his position. He also wrote that Peters's demographic statistics were inexplicable: \n...nowhere in her main text or in the methodological appendices (V and VI) did Mrs. Peters bother to explain to her readers how she managed to break down the Ottoman or Cuinet's figures into smaller units than subdistricts. As far as I know no figures for the units smaller than subdistricts (Nahia; the parallel of the French commune), covering the area of Ottoman Palestine, were ever published. Therefore I can't avoid the conclusion that Mrs. Peters's figures were, at best, based on guesswork and an extremely tendentious guesswork at that.\n\n, Israeli and Palestinian statistics for the overall numbers of Jews and Arabs in the area west of the Jordan, inclusive of Israel and the Palestinian territories, are similar and suggest a rough parity in the two populations. Palestinian statistics estimate 6.08 million Palestinians for that area, while Israel's Central Bureau of Statistics estimates 6,218,000 Jews living in sovereign Israel. Gaza is estimated by the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) to have 1.7 million, and the West Bank 2.754 million Palestinians, while Israel proper has 1,719,000 Arab citizens. According to Israel's Central Bureau of Statistics, as of May 2006, of Israel's 7 million people, 77% were Jews, 18.5% Arabs, and 4.3% \"others\". Among Jews, 68% were Sabras (Israeli-born), mostly second- or third-generation Israelis, and the rest are olim – 22% from Europe and the Americas, and 10% from Asia and Africa, including the Arab countries.\n\nAccording to these Israeli and Palestinian estimates, the population in Israel and the Palestinian territories stands at from 6.08 - to 6.2 million Palestinians and 6.10 million Jews. According to Sergio DellaPergola, if foreign workers and non-Jewish Russian immigrants in Israel are subtracted, Jews are already a minority in the land between the river and the sea. DellaPergola calculates that Palestinians as of January 2014 number 5,698,500 as opposed to a “core Jewish population” of 6,103,200.\n\nThe Palestinian statistics are contested by some right-wing Israeli think-tanks and non-demographers such as Yoram Ettinger, who claim they overestimate Palestinian numbers by double-counting and counting Palestinians who live abroad. The double-counting argument is dismissed by both Arnon Soffer, Ian Lustick and DellaPergola, the latter dismissing Ettinger's calculations as 'delusional' or manipulated for ignoring the birth-rate differentials between the two populations (3 children per Jewish mother vs 3.4 for Palestinians generally, and 4.1 in the Gaza Strip). DellaPergola allows, however, for a slight inflation in the Palestinian statistics due to the counting of Palestinians who are abroad, a 'relatively negligible' discrepancy of some 380,000 individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29502176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29502176", "title": "Dick de Hoog", "text": "Dick de Hoog\n\nFrederik Hermanus \"Dick\" de Hoog (16 June 1881 – 3 January 1939) was the Indo (Eurasian) President of the Indo European Alliance, member of People’s Council and professional politician in the Dutch East Indies. He was also a Grand Master (Masonic) of the Dutch East Indies Freemasonry (Grand Orient of the Netherlands).\n\nHe was born on Ambon and died in Bandung, Dutch East Indies. He was the son of a Dutch father Johannes Hermanus Josephus de Hoog, employed in the Dutch East Indies Navy, and Indo (Eurasian) mother Susanna Beekman. He was married to the Indo Chinese Kiong Nio Oei (1874–1961). The couple had two adoptive children.\n\nAfter an expeditious and successful professional career Dick de Hoog went into politics and became the undisputed leader of the Indo Europeesch Verbond (English: Indo European Alliance), the most important Indo emancipation movement of the time. As its representative he became a professional politician and full-time member of the Dutch East Indies ‘Volksraad’, an infant form of parliament .\n\nHe successfully united all Indo social layers and built the largest Indo organisation in the Dutch East Indies. His organisation became the biggest political fraction represented in the People’s Assembly fighting for race equality and a self-sufficient and independent nation, albeit as a dominion in a larger Dutch commonwealth.\n\nA beloved and popular figure among Indos in the Dutch East Indies he became the face and voice of Indo emancipation. Emerging as the IEV’s charismatic leader he was a champion of Indo interests in the Dutch East Indies until his death in 1939.\n\nDe Hoog was the youngest of 5 children. Due to the death of his father when he was still an infant toddler the family was unable to afford appropriate schooling for the brilliant and inquisitive boy. Fortunately a scholarship granted by the Freemasons lodge enabled De Hoog to graduate cum laude at the Surabaya HBS at 16. He started his professional career as a clerk in Surabaya and at age 19 joined the State Railway company. Within a few years he was promoted to chief of its main cargo freight station. By 1905 he was station chief in Jombang, where his career halted due to the fact that the highest job positions in the Dutch East Indies were restricted to people educated in the Netherlands and were usually occupied by expatriate Dutchmen.\n\nWith the financial help from a friend, the already married De Hoog, was able to pursue an academic education in the Netherlands in 1914. In record time he graduated from Leiden University in 1916. The next year he and his wife traveled back to the Dutch East Indies via the United States. In Batavia he became the right-hand man of the director of the State Railway company and in 1922 its principal officer in Jogjakarta. In 1925 he was promoted again and moved to Bandung as Inspector First Class.\n\nMeanwhile, De Hoog had also commenced his political career and soon became the main leader of the IEV (Indo European Alliance), the most important Indo emancipation movement of the time. Founded by Karel Zaalberg in 1919 De Hoog joined the IEV board of directors in 1920. In 1922 he became its Vice-President and in 1923 its representative in the an infant form of parliament. When in 1927 he joined the 'Board of Delegates', responsible for the daily administration of the 'Volksraad', he requested honorable discharge of his job with the State Railway organisation.\n\nDe Hoog was now totally dedicated to his political aspirations. After initially having a two-headed presidency De Hoog became the IEV’s sole President in 1929. That same year De Hoog, lovingly nicknamed the ‘Big Boss’, was responsible for successfully attracting close to 15,000 members. In 1930 he became deputy chairman of the 'Board of Delegates' and vice chairman of the 'Volksraad'. By now the IEV had grown into the largest political fraction in the 'Volksraad'. In his political functions De Hoog proved to be a skillful administrator, shrewd politician and excellent orator. Both friend and foe praised his immaculate memory, subject matter knowledge, discretion and strong work ethic.\n\nDe Hoog considered solidarity essential to further emancipation and his first priority was to ensure unity within all social layers of the Indo community of the plural and polarized Dutch East Indies. Under his leadership the organisation struggled to acquire both civil rights for natives of the colony as well as increased self-determination for the Dutch East Indies. The colonial authorities however continued to procrastinate democratic progress and the Dutch East Indies remained considerably more centralised and conservative than the Netherlands. Key issues like uplifting the ban on land ownership for Indos and autonomy for the colony were never resolved.\n\nIn 1938 the IEV celebrated De Hoog's 10 years as President and a social fund was named after him. He was at the height of his fame and had acquired significant nicknames such as the 'uncrowned King of the IEV' and the 'Indo general'. His health however started failing and after several heart failures he suffered a fatal stroke at age 57. His death in 1939 was front page news in both the Dutch East Indies and the Netherlands and his burial in Bandung was an impressive event paying homage to his work for the Indo community.\n\nAlthough during his lifetime he was widely acknowledged as the undisputed leader of the IEV and a popular and respected champion of Indo emancipation in the Dutch East Indies, his organisation was unable to build up enough influence to reverse the ongoing marginalisation of the vulnerable Indo community. After the great change of paradigm during WWII the IEV was unable to surmount the vicissitudes of the clash between Dutch colonialism and the Indonesian independence movement.\n\nKarel Zaalberg\n\nIndo Europeesch Verbond\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11444354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11444354", "title": "Egbert Udo Udoma", "text": "Egbert Udo Udoma\n\nEgbert Udo Udoma (21 June 1917 – 2 February 1998) was a lawyer and justice of the Nigerian Supreme Court. He was Chief Justice of Uganda from 1963 to 1969. He spent 13 years as a judge on the Supreme Court of Nigeria and was chairman of the Constituent Assembly from 1977 to 1978. He was one of the founding fathers of Nigeria. Udoma was one of the first black Africans to earn a PhD in Law in 1944 from Oxford University. He was a devoted Methodist and a holder of Knight of John Wesley (KJW).\n\nHe was born in the Ibibio area of Akwa Ibom State and attended Methodist College, Uzuakoli. After completing his secondary education, he proceeded abroad to study at Trinity College, Dublin (TCD) with the support of his community and the Ibibio Union, an organization which he later led. At TCD, he served as President of the University Philosophical Society, the student debating society. He later earned a postgraduate degree at Oxford University.\n\nHe returned to Nigeria to practise law in the mid-1940s, but became intrigued and moved by the nationalistic politics of the time. At the time, Nigeria was attracting returning emigrants who had left previously. He joined the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons early on, but left the party following a crisis in the former Eastern Region that saw the removal of Eyo Ita, an Ibeno man from office as the leader of the Eastern Region by Azikiwe. From 1953 to 1959, Udo Udoma was a member of the federal House of Representatives, under the platform of the United National Independence Party, then he was a leading proponent for the creation of a Calabar/Ogoja/Rivers state. However, his failure to succeed in the creation of an independent region or state in south-eastern Nigeria, and the triumph of the three major regions at a constitutional conference in 1958, led him to concede politics to the dominant parties.\nHe spent four years as a high court judge before he was appointed Chief Justice in Uganda. He also belonged to the group that championed Nigerian independence from Britain and was one of the founding fathers of Nigeria. He died at the age of 80 on 2 February 1998.\n\nHe was the subject of two biographies: \"The Man: Sir Justice Udo Udoma\" by Dennis Udo-Inyang, and \"Law and Statesmanship: The Legacy of Sir Udo Udoma\" by Ekong Sampson. \nIn 2008 the Estate of Sir Udo Udoma released \"The Eagle In Its Flight: Being The Memoir of the Hon. Sir Udo Udoma, CFR\" (Grace & Son).\nHis third son Udoma Udo Udoma was a distinguished Senator of the fourth republic of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and is the incumbent Minister of Budget and Planning under the Buhari administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "39152456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39152456", "title": "Emilia Casanova de Villaverde", "text": "Emilia Casanova de Villaverde\n\nEmilia Casanova de Villaverde (1832–1897) was a Cuban political activist, most notable for her involvement in the Cuban independence movement. She founded La Liga de las Hijas de Cuba, one of the first all-women’s organizations dedicated to the Antillean emancipation struggle.No\n\nEmilia Casanova de Villaverde was born into an elite Creole slaveholding family in Cuba in 1832. Despite her affluent Creole upbringing, de Villaverde did not share her father's conservative views. At a banquet during her youth, with Spanish authorities in attendance, she defiantly made a toast to Cuban freedom from Spanish colonial power.\n\nBy 1825, most of Spain's colonies in the Americas gained independence except for Cuba and Puerto Rico, which remained under Spanish rule. Cuban elites believed that Spanish colonialism would help maintain Cuba's domination of the sugar industry and prevent a slave uprising similar to the Haitian Revolution in 1791. Over the years, many inhabitants of Cuba and Puerto Rico grew dissatisfied with Spanish control, intensifying with the Ten Years' War (1868–1878), the first major rebellion challenging Spanish authority.\n\nEmilia Casanova de Villaverde first traveled to the United States in 1852, along with her father and two brothers. This trip gave her exposure to the Cuban exile community in New York and further sparked her interest in the Cuban independence movement. Although de Villaverde considered remaining in New York City to continue her education, she returned to Cuba after only three months to care for her mother back at home. On her return journey, she agreed to transport revolutionary documents on behalf of the exile community and distributed them in Cuba.\n\nAt the age of twenty-two, the Casanova family moved to Philadelphia, where Emilia met and soon after married Cirilo Villaverde. Cirilo Villaverde was a Cuban poet and novelist, most notable for writing the novel Cecilia Valdes. This novel exposed the complex nature of race and class relations embedded in Cuban society. Cirilo had been a politically active member of the Cuban exile community since his arrival in the United States in the 1840s. Like many separatists during the 1840s and 1850s, he initially believed that annexation to the United States was the only way Cuba could eventually abolish slavery. As his viewpoints evolved over time; however, Cirilo eventually favored true Cuban liberation. After marrying the couple moved to New York City, where they became actively involved in the Cuban exile community's independence movement.\n\nAs Emilia Casanova de Villaverde built up a social network within the Cuban exile community in New York, she started organizing public meetings, writing articles dedicated to the independence cause, and hosting gatherings at her home for supporters of the Cuban revolution. However, women were generally denied membership into political clubs during this time. In response to this barrier, Emilia created all-women’s clubs to increase her prominence and decision-making power among exile nationalists. Prior to founding the influential revolutionary women’s club, Las Hijas de Cuba, she formed another women’s organization known as Las Patriotas de Cuba.\n\nFounded on February 6, 1869 at the St. Julien Hotel near Washington Square in New York City, Las Hijas de Cuba was created by de Villaverde as a political organization for women fighting for Cuban independence. During this time, membership in revolutionary and cultural clubs was restricted to males only, forcing women to form their own organizations. Fourteen Cuban and Puerto Rican women gathered at this initial meeting to discuss helping Cuban soldiers and to criticize the all-male independence organization, Junta Revolucionaria de Cuba y Puerto Rico. As president of Las Hijas de Cuba, Emilia Casanova de Villaverde condemned this all-male club for their \"annexationist maneuvers and betrayal of the independence movement.\" The members of Las Hijas de Cuba, aware of the United States' growing interest in controlling Caribbean nations, disapproved of the fact that the Junta considered the United States an ally. They feared that this would move Cuba closer to annexation by the United States rather than emancipation. The collective power of these women's efforts gained attention and garnered further support for Villaverde. The leaders of Junta Revolucionaria de Cuba y Puerto Rico formed a new club called La Liga shortly after, which came to be dominated by annexationists.\nVillaverde used her platform as president of Las Hijas de Cuba to become a more recognizable force within the independence movement. The organization played an important role in raising funds for Cuban soldiers during the Ten Years' War. Additionally, as a representative of Las Hijas de Cuba, Emilia Casanova de Villaverde presented the merits of Cuban liberation before the U.S. Congress on numerous occasions. She was the first Cuban woman granted the right to address the United States Congress on this issue. When her father was imprisoned in Havana during the Ten Years' War, Villaverde spoke with U.S. government officials, including President Ulysses S. Grant, asking for protection. Spain accused many members of the property-owning Creole class of \"infidelity\" during this contentious time, loosely defined as any actions disrupting the political order, and confiscated their property as punishment. President Grant agreed to protect her father from the Spanish government and soon after Villaverde's father was released. In 1871 and 1872, she again petitioned the United States Congress to support Cuban independence rather than Spanish colonial power. In 1871, Emilia Casanova de Villaverde pleaded the U.S. government for assistance after learning that eight medical school students at the University of Havana were being held hostage by Spanish authorities. In 1872, she informed Washington officials of Spain's hostile behavior on the island of Cuba and presented an extensive argument detailing the economic advantages of aiding Cuba over Spain. Despite de Villaverde’s efforts, the U.S. government decided it would be most strategic to side with a weak colonial power rather than a sovereign Cuba. \nIn order to increase the international visibility of the Cuban emancipation struggle, she wrote to prominent European figures such as Giuseppe Garibaldi and Victor Hugo. In an 1869 letter to Giuseppe Garibaldi, Villaverde stated her abolitionist views: “the beginning of our revolution means the freedom of our slaves, giving them arms and incorporating them in our patriotic ranks.” Garibaldi responded to her appeal by stating that he supported Cuba’s quest for freedom from colonial oppression, but he did not make any specific commitments to aid the movement.\n\nEmilia Casanova de Villaverde remained staunchly involved in the fight for Cuban liberation until her death on March 4, 1897. When her husband Cirilo Villaverde died in 1894, she briefly traveled to Cuba for his burial, but decided to return to New York City to continue working for Cuban independence for the remainder of her life. Her death in 1897 occurred just a year before the Spanish–American War in 1898, which resulted in Cuba's independence. Just a few years earlier, in 1895, the Cubans went to war inspired by writers and thinkers such a Jose Marti, considered the father of the country. The Cuban \"Mambises\" as the revolutionaries were known, led by Generals Antonio Maco, Calixto Garcia and the Dominican Maximo Gomez had driven the Spaniards to a stalemate when the explosion of the USS \"Maine\" occurred. Because of this incident, the United States declared war on Spain and sent troops to Cuba, which resulted in the Spaniards defeat and their transferring Cuba, Puerto Rico and the Philippines to U.S. control. After five years of U.S. rule and the Cuban revolutionaries making it clear that they would fight the Americans if they stayed as conquerors, the U.S. allowed Cuban independence and self-rule, but managed to insert a clause in the Cuban Constitution called the Platt Amendment, which permitted the U.S. to intervene in Cuba whenever the U.S. decided the Cuban government was not stable. After several such interventions in the early 20th century, the Platt amendment was revoked in the 1930s by mutual agreement.\n"}
{"id": "46292555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46292555", "title": "Enrique de Bustamente", "text": "Enrique de Bustamente\n\nEnrique Luis Martin de Bustamente is a Spanish philatelist who was added to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1989.\n\nBustamente has won awards for displays at many stamp exhibitions including Brasiliana 93, Capex '96, Pacific '97, and others.\n"}
{"id": "9520272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9520272", "title": "Frances Fabri", "text": "Frances Fabri\n\nFrances Fabri, born Sárika Ladányi (22 September 1929 – 9 January 2006), was a Hungarian-born author and Holocaust survivor. She was born in Békés, Hungary.\n\nAt the age of fourteen she was deported to Auschwitz with her family. Only Fabri and her mother survived. After their liberation they returned to their hometown. They left in 1956, and moved to New York, where Fabri graduated from Hofstra University in history and literature. She married Emery Fabri in Hungary, but the couple later divorced. She moved to San Francisco in about 1972. With the help of college students she started interviewing Holocaust survivors, which she collected in a book called \"Crickets Would Sing\".\n\nAfter her death in January 2006 in San Francisco, Dr. Matthew McKay established the \"Fabri Literary Prize\" in her honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "17832939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17832939", "title": "Geoff Garin", "text": "Geoff Garin\n\nGeoff Garin (born 1953) is an American pollster, who served as co-chief strategist for the latter part of Senator Hillary Clinton's 2008 Presidential campaign. He was a pollster and strategist in 2011-2012 for Priorities USA Action, the superPAC that supported Barack Obama's reelection, and currently serves in those same roles for Priorities USA in support of Hillary Clinton's election as president.\n\nGarin is the president of Hart Research Associates, a survey research firm. He became president of Hart Research in 1984, after having worked in the firm since 1978 as a senior analyst and vice president. He has conducted polling projects for a wide variety of foundations and non-profit organizations. The foundations for which he has undertaken policy research on include the Pew Charitable Trusts, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Packard Foundation, the Gill Foundation, and the Annie E. Casey Foundation.\n\nGarin's body of research has also included projects for the University of California, the College Board, the Alliance for Justice, the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, and the Fannie Mae Foundation. He has conducted research on health care issues for the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. His work on international policy issues includes studies for CARE, the U.S. Fund for UNICEF, and the United Nations Foundation. His work was also used in the 2013 book \"The Kennedy Half-Century\".\n\nGarin has also worked for numerous politicians, such as Senators Max Baucus, Robert Byrd, John Rockefeller, and Hillary Clinton, and Virginia Governor Mark Warner.\n\nGarin was hired in March 2008 as a pollster for Hillary Clinton's Presidential campaign. Along with Howard Wolfson, he replaced Mark Penn as the Clinton Campaign's campaign coordinators in April 2008, after the \"Wall Street Journal\" revealed that Penn met with a Colombian official regarding a proposed free trade agreement opposed by Clinton and most labor unions. The \"New York Times\" speculated at the time that the change might lead to a less negative tone by the Clinton campaign.\n\nGarin was graduated from Harvard University, class of 1975. He is married to Deborah Berkowitz, an expert in occupational safety and health, and has two sons.\n"}
{"id": "1825773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825773", "title": "Geri Jewell", "text": "Geri Jewell\n\nGeraldine Ann \"Geri\" Jewell (born September 13, 1956) is an American actress and stand-up comedian noted for roles on the 1980s sitcom \"The Facts of Life\" and the mid 2000s western \"Deadwood\".\n\nOriginally from Buffalo, New York, she is most famous for her role of Geri Warner on the television program \"The Facts of Life\" from 1980 to 1984. This role made her the first person with a visible disability to have a recurring role on a prime-time series, as well as the first actor with cerebral palsy to be featured on a TV series. After she dropped out of college, Jewell began her career doing stand up comedy at The Comedy Store in 1978. In 1980, she performed at the 2nd Annual Media Access Awards, when she was introduced to Norman Lear by producer, Fern Field.\n\nJewell appeared as the recurring character Jewel on the HBO original series \"Deadwood\" from 2004—2006.\n\nShe has been the recipient of many awards, including the 1992 Founders Award, the 2005 Independent Living Legacy Award, and a National Rehabilitation Hospital Victory Award (in 2006).\n\nHer autobiography \"I'm Walking as Straight as I Can\" was published in 2011 by ECW Press. The title refers to the facts that she has cerebral palsy and is a lesbian.\n\nJewell's original autobiography, \"Geri\", published in 1984, talked about her personal and professional life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35537879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35537879", "title": "Giuseppe Berton", "text": "Giuseppe Berton\n\nFather Giuseppe Berton (1932 – 25 June 2013) was an Italian missionary of the Xaverian Brothers, who had been living in Sierra Leone since 1971.\nBorn in Marostica, Vicenza, on 5 February 1932, he was the founder of the Family Homes Movement (FHM, Sierra Leone, 1985), a movement whose main aim was that of giving parental care and education to children in particular need; during the civil war Father Berton and FHM saved and rehabilitated into social life more than 3000 child soldiers. \n\nGiuseppe Berton is the protagonist of the documentary La Vita Non Perde Valore (\"Life does not lose its value, Bluindaco Productions © 2012\"), thanks to which in 2014 the director has been awarded of an Italian National Award on Human Rights, i.e. 2014 Maria Rita Saulle Award.\n\nFather Giuseppe Berton was the co-founder, together with Roberto Ravera (Director ASL 1 Imperiese, Italy), of the FHM ITALIA Onlus.\n\nThe FHM ITALIA Onlus is the Italian sister of FHM Sierra Leone. Based in Italy, it has been founded by the cooperation between Father Giuseppe Berton and Roberto Ravera, who had worked together, following the updated scientific theories in terms of psychology and psychopathology, for projects of rehabilitation and social, professional, scholastic inclusion of abandoned children.\n\nFr. Giuseppe Berton died on 25 June 2013 at the mother house of the Xaverians in Parma.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39632272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39632272", "title": "Gusti Yehoshua Braverman", "text": "Gusti Yehoshua Braverman\n\nGusti Yehoshua Braverman (Hebrew גוסטי יהושע ברוורמן) is the Chair of the World Zionist Organization's Department for Diaspora Activities. Her previous positions include being the deputy director of the Reform Movement in Israel, and the director of the Tamar Dance Company.\n\nGusti Yehoshua Braverman was born in Israel. She attended The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, graduating with a BA in Social Work and Mass Communication, and an MA in Mass Communication. Gusti served as the director of the Tamar Dance Company from 1990–1992, and as the Associate Director of Israeli Movement for Progressive Judaism from September 1993-July 2010.\n\nGusti represented the Reform Movement at the World Zionist Congress, and was elected to the World Zionist Organization Executive at the 36th World Zionist Congress, as the co-chair of the Department for Zionist Activities in the Diaspora in 2010. She currently serves as the Chairman of the Department for Diaspora Activities. Additionally, she has been a member of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Agency for Israel since 2010, and of the Public Council to Commemorate Theodor Herzl.\n\nAs the Chair of the Department for Diaspora Activities of the World Zionist Organization, Gusti has worked with Zionist Federations from around the world to promote Zionist educational activities and events, including FeminIsrael, a celebration of Women's History Month and women in Israel, and has spearheaded the creation of the \"Beit Ha'am\" series of Zionist educational texts on different topics. She has also worked closely with the Herzl Center in Jerusalem to create interactive educational exhibits for the center.\n\n"}
{"id": "1483884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1483884", "title": "Harlem Désir", "text": "Harlem Désir\n\nHarlem Jean-Philippe Désir (; born 25 November 1959) is a French politician who served in the government of France as Secretary of State for European Affairs from 2014 to 2017. Previously he was First Secretary of the French Socialist Party. Since 2017, he has served as the OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media.\n\nBorn in Paris, Harlem Désir is the son of a Martinican father and an Alsatian mother. He grew up in a housing project in Bagneux, north of Paris.\n\nDésir studied at the Pantheon-Sorbonne University, where he earned a license in philosophy in 1983. Also in 1983, he emerged as a leader from that year's social unrest in France and helped organize the March for Equality and Against Racism (the so-called March of the Beurs) that started in the immigrant neighborhoods outside Lyon and ended in Paris.\n\nDésir was the first president of the French anti-racist organisation SOS Racisme between 1984 and 1992. Under his leadership, the organization grew significantly in membership and acquired significant influence in French public life. Accused of misusing public assets from 1986 to 1987, he was sentenced to an 18 months suspended sentence and a 30,000 francs fine in 1998.\n\nDésir first became a Member of the European Parliament following the 1999 European elections. A member of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats group, he was re-elected in 2004 and 2009.\n\nIn his first parliamentary term from 1999 until 2004, Désir served on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. From 2004 to 2009, he was a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. In this capacity, he served as the parliament's rapporteur on the 2008 Temporary Agency Work Directive. In his last term, he joined the Committee on International Trade. He also served as deputy chairman of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats group.\n\nIn addition to his committee assignments, Désir was a member of the parliament's delegations for relations with India (2009–2014), the United States (2002–2004) and South Africa (1999–2002). From 2002 to 2004, he also served on the parliament's delegation to the Joint Parliamentary Assembly of the Agreement between the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States and the European Union (ACP-EU).\n\nFollowing the 2004 European elections, Désir became one of the vice-chairpersons of a newly established European Parliament Anti-Racism and Diversity Intergroup (ARDI), alongside Claude Moraes, Saïd El Khadraoui, Emine Bozkurt, Cem Özdemir and Lívia Járóka. He was also a member of the Capital Tax, Fiscal Systems and Globalisation Intergroup of the European Parliament, to whom was presented Denis Robert and Ernest Backes's book, \"Revelation$\", in March 2001.\n\nDésir is considered an ardent pro-European. He fought unsuccessfully in 2005 to convince the Socialist Party to back a new European constitutional treaty.\n\nAhead of the 2014 European elections, Désir was appointed to head the Socialist Party's list for Ile-de-France. Following his resignation from the European Parliament, he was replaced by Christine Revault d'Allonnes Bonnefoy.\n\nIn the 2011 Socialist Party presidential primary, Désir endorsed the campaign of Martine Aubry.\n\nOn 30 June 2011, he was the delegate first secretary of the Socialist Party during the Martine Aubry bid for the Socialist Party primary, who started her campaign for presidential election of 2012 on 28 June 2011. After the resignation of Aubry on 16 September 2012, he again became First Secretary of the Socialist Party by interim.\n\nEndorsed by Martine Aubry and Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault before the 2012 Party Congress, he was elected First Secretary of the party on 18 October 2012, fending off competition for the post from another veteran who has also been convicted of financial misconduct, Jean-Christophe Cambadélis. He became the first black person to lead a major European political party. At the time of his election, he had never been a minister or member of the national parliament.\n\nDésir remained head of the party until April 2014, when he stood down after being appointed State Secretary for European Affairs. He was replaced by Jean-Christophe Cambadélis. His resignation was partly explained with his attitude during the Dibrani case.\n\nOn 9 April 2014, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls appointed him Secretary of State for European Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Development. In February 2015, he was appointed chairman of the General Affairs Council of the Party of European Socialists, a position he held until leaving office.\n\nShortly after taking office, Désir and his Italian counterpart, Sandro Gozi, set out a list of priorities for the time after the 2014 European elections, saying the new European Commission should grant maximum flexibility within existing EU budget rules to countries undertaking growth-promoting investments and structural economic reforms. Désir also proposed creating a European savings plan to mobilize citizens' savings to invest in small business and priority infrastructure projects such as extending high-speed broadband and the transition to renewable energy.\n\nOn the sidelines of an informal U.N. General Assembly meeting on the rising threat of antisemitism in January 2015, Désir joined his German counterpart Michael Roth in appealing for U.N. member states to work together on an international legal framework that would make social network providers share responsibility for the use of their platforms to spread messages promoting violence; the French call for a radical shift in the way governments treat social networking companies such as Facebook and Twitter came two weeks after the \"Charlie Hebdo\" shooting in Paris.\n\nDésir was appointed Representative on Freedom of the Media by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe for a term of three years beginning 18 July 2017.\n\n\nDésir is a Roman Catholic.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "15912492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15912492", "title": "Harriet Livermore", "text": "Harriet Livermore\n\nHarriet Livermore (April 14, 1788-1868), is best known as a preacher, becoming one of the most well-known female preachers in America in the 19th century. She is referred to in John Greenleaf Whittier's poem \"Snow-Bound\". She travelled widely throughout America and four times to the Holy Land.\n\nHarriet Livermore was born on April 14, 1788, in Concord, New Hampshire, the daughter of Edward St. Loe Livermore, best known as a United States Representative from Massachusetts; and granddaughter of Samuel Livermore, a United States Senator for New Hampshire. Her mother died when she was five and at eight her father placed her in a boarding school in Haverhill, Massachusetts, later sending her to Byfield Female Seminary in Byfield, Massachusetts and Atkinson Academy in New Hampshire.\n\nLivermore was raised a Congregationalist but showed little interest in religion until the year 1811 when she was twenty-three. She reflected later that:\n\nIt was in September, A.D. 1811, that tired of the vain, thoughtless life I had led, sick of the world, disappointed in all my hopes of sublunary bliss, I drew up a resolution in my mind to commence a religious life-to become a religious person...Neither fears of hell, nor desires for Heaven influenced the motion. I fled to the name and form of religion, as a present sanctuary from the sorrows of life.\n\nBy 1821, Livermore had decided she was called to be a preacher. \"I felt under the most solemn obligations to dedicate the whole of my time to...God\". A year later she had begun preaching in Christian Connection and Freewill Baptist congregations in New Hampshire.\n\nNevertheless, her fame spread, and she was invited to speak in the House of Representatives Chamber of the United States Congress in January 1827. Livermore was not the first woman to preach there (Dorothy Ripley was the first in 1806, but Livermore's sermon was such a success that she was able to speak before Congress three more times: in 1832, 1838, and 1843. President John Quincy Adams was in the audience for her first sermon and according to contemporary reports many of her listeners were deeply moved:\n\nHer language was correct, persuasive, and judging by my own feelings, the profound attention and sympathy of the audience, extremely eloquent. Many wept even to sobbing...Judging, as I said, by my own feelings...I should say she is the most eloquent preacher I have listened to since the days of Mr. Waddell. But no language can do justice to the pathos of her singing. For when she closed by singing a hymn that might with propriety be termed a prayer...her voice was so melodious, and her face beamed with such heavenly goodness as to resemble a transfiguration, and you were compelled to accord them all to her.\n\nEarly in her preaching career, \"Livermore focussed on a traditional Protestant message of conversion, repentance, and salvation.\"\n\nHowever, by 1831, Livermore was convinced that the Millennium was at hand. She was apparently influenced by a published letter in which Joseph Wolff, a converted Jew, wrote of his belief that the Lord \"would come in the clouds of heaven,and stand upon the Mount of Olives, in A.D. 1847.\" So taken by Wolff's work was Livermore, that she had two thousand copies of his letter published as \"Millennial Tidings\", no. 1. in 1831.\n\nIt was probably from Wolff also, that Livermore took her belief in the lost ten tribes of Israel. Unlike Wolff however, Livermore became convinced that the American Indians were the lost tribes, and in 1832 she set out alone to evangelize them. She faced stiff opposition by government officials at Fort Leavenworth but spent enough time there that the Osage Indians named her \"Wahconda's Wakko\" (God's woman).\n\nAgain from Wolff, Livermore seems to have accepted the idea of the literal, premillennial return of Jesus Christ to earth in 1847. In this date she differed from the Millerites, who predicted Christ's return first in 1843, then in 1844. Livermore recorded her millennial beliefs in verse:\n\n\"Millennium! the days are near,\n\nWhen wicked ones shall quake with fear,\n\nand in consuming fire wail.\n\nThat they did Joseph's peace assail.\"\n\nAlso contrary to the teachings of the Millerites, Livermore believed that the site of Christ's return would be the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem; and in 1837 she made the first of five journeys there.\n\nHer changing and increasingly radical beliefs increasingly ostracised her from mainstream Christianity and even from fringe groups such as the Millerites and Mormons.\n\n\n\"Scriptural Evidence in Favor of Female Testimony in Meetings for the Worship of God\". (Portsmouth, NH, 1824).\n\n\"A Narration of Religious Experience\". (Concord, NH, 1826).\n\n\"An Epistle of Love\". (Philadelphia, PA, 1826).\n\n\"A Wreath From Jessamine Lawn; or, Free Grace, the Flower that Never Fades\", 2 vols. (Philadelphia, PA, 1831).\n\n\"Millennial Tidings\", no. 1. (Philadelphia, PA, 1831).\n\n\"Loud Echo in the Wilds of America\". (Philadelphia, PA, 1835).\n\n\"A Letter to John Ross, the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation\". (Philadelphia, PA, 1838).\n\n\"Millennial Tidings\", no. 3. (Philadelphia, PA, 1838).\n\n\"Millennial Tidings\", no. 4. (Philadelphia, PA, 1839).\n\n\"A Testimony for the Times\". (New York, NY, 1843).\n\n\"The Counsel of God, Immutable and Everlasting\". (Philadelphia, PA, 1844).\n\n\"Addresses to the Dispersed of Judah\". (Philadelphia, PA, 1849).\n\n\"The Anointed Shepherd at the War Camp of Israel\". (1856).\n\n\"Thoughts on Important Subjects\". (Philadelphia, PA, 1864).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8087467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8087467", "title": "Jacob Shapiro", "text": "Jacob Shapiro\n\nJacob \"Gurrah\" Shapiro (May 5, 1899 – June 9, 1947) was a New York mobster who, with his partner Louis \"Lepke\" Buchalter, controlled industrial labor racketeering in New York for two decades and established the Murder, Inc. organization.\n\nShapiro was born in 1899 in Odessa in the Russian Empire. While confined in protectory in Brooklyn, he became friends with Joseph Valachi and Jimmy \"The Shiv\" DeStefano (who got his nickname while confined in the protectory). Legs Diamond was also there but kept his distance from the feared threesome. During this period, Shapiro encountered his future partner, Louis Buchalter; both boys were attempting to rob the same pushcart. Instead of fighting over the spoils, Shapiro and Buchalter agreed on a partnership. Buchalter served as the brains and Shapiro provided the muscle in an alliance that lasted for decades. Shapiro and Buchalter soon become acquainted with future mobsters Meyer Lansky and Lucky Luciano, both of whom were protégés of mobster Arnold Rothstein.\n\nEncouraged by Rothstein; Shapiro and Buchalter entered the lucrative arena of New York labor racketeering working for Jacob Orgen. Orgen had previously wrested control of this racket from Nathan Kaplan in the decade-long Labor Slugger Wars. The gangsters had infiltrated labor unions in the busy Garment District, Manhattan, assaulting and murdering the union leadership to gain control. The gangsters then instituted a system of kickbacks and skimming from union dues while at the same time extorting the garment manufacturers with the threat of strikes.\n\nAfter working for Orgen for a while, Shapiro and Buchalter started planning to take over his operations. Realizing that Shapiro and Buchalter posed a threat, Orgen allied himself with brothers Eddie and \"Legs\" Diamond. Shapiro and Buchalter soon made their move. On October 15, 1927, Orgen and Jack Diamond were standing on the corner of Delancey and Norfolk Street in the Lower East Side. Two gunmen (thought to be Shapiro and Buchalter) drove up to the corner. One gunman got out of the car and started shooting while the driver began shooting from the inside the car. Orgen was killed instantly and Jack Diamond was severely wounded. With Orgen's death, Shapiro and Buchalter took over his labor racketing operation. The two partners soon began massive extortions of both labor unions and businesses as they created a massive criminal monopoly in the Garment District.\n\nShapiro and Buchalter soon formed the infamous Murder, Inc., an organization that performed contract murders for organized crime. Their client was the \"National Crime Syndicate\", a confederation of crime families created by Luciano and Lansky in 1929. The Syndicate was created to avoid the bloody gang wars of the 1920s by creating an organization with the power to mediate organized crime disputes and punish offenders. Murder, Inc. served as the enforcement arm for the Syndicate. With Buchalter leading Murder, Inc., Shapiro and Albert \"Mad Hatter\" Anastasia were his most trusted associates. One of its most dedicated members, Shapiro personally oversaw many contract murders and recruited promising gunmen for future membership.\n\nDuring the early 1930s, US Attorney Thomas E. Dewey started to prosecute organized crime members in New York City. The pressure created by Dewey was such that in 1935 mobster Dutch Schultz asked the National Crime Syndicate to approve Dewey's murder. Shapiro and Anastasia agreed with Schultz, but Buchalter and the rest of the Syndicate turned down his request. Killing a prosecutor went against mob tradition, the majority argued, and would only increase federal investigation into organized crime and possibly expose the Syndicate itself. In fact, the Syndicate was so fearful of Schultz's proposal that they later ordered Buchalter to murder Schultz. On October 23, 1935, Schultz and several associates were gunned down by Murder, Inc. gunmen in a restaurant in Newark, New Jersey.\n\nShortly after Schultz's death, Shapiro and Buchalter became the focus of Dewey's investigations. In October, 1936, Shapiro and Buchalter were convicted under the terms of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and were both sentenced to two years in Sing Sing Prison. After his conviction, Shapiro went into hiding for a year. However, he finally turned himself in to Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agents on April 14, 1938 and was sent to prison. On May 5, 1944, Shapiro was convicted of conspiracy and extortion and sentenced to 15 years to life in prison.\n\nMonths before his 1944 conviction, Shapiro allegedly smuggled a note to Buchalter, who was then on trial in New York for murder. The note simply read, \"I told you so.\" On March 4, 1944, Buchalter was electrocuted in Sing Sing Prison in Ossining, New York. Until his death in prison from a heart attack in 1947, Shapiro remained convinced that had Dewey been killed, he and others would have remained free.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11316440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11316440", "title": "Jamie Bloem", "text": "Jamie Bloem\n\nJamie Bloem (born 26 May 1971) is a rugby league referee. He is a former rugby league and rugby union footballer of the 1990s and 2000s, and coach of the 2000s and 2010s. He played representative rugby league (RL) for South Africa (captain), and Scotland, and at club level for Cape Town Coasters (South Africa), Castleford, Oldham, Doncaster (Heritage № 670), Widnes Vikings, Halifax (two spells) (in 1998's Super League III, 1999's Super League IV, 2000's Super League V, 2001's Super League VI, 2002's Super League VII), Huddersfield Giants (in 2003's Super League VIII), and player-coach for Stainland Stags ARLFC, as a , or , and provincial level rugby union (RU) for Western Province, and at club level for Union Milnerton RFC (Cape Town), Racing Métro 92, Halifax RUFC, and player-coach for Thornensians RUFC, Old Brodleians RUFC, Old Rishworthians RUFC, and Halifax Vandals RUFC. As of 2012, he runs a landscape gardening business in Halifax, West Yorkshire.\n\nBloem was born in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. He is of Scottish and South African descent.\n\nBloem initially played his club rugby league for the Cape Town Coasters in South Africa, he also played in France and has travelled extensively as a player, he became player-coach at Stainland Stags ARLFC (Halifax, West Yorkshire) during the Pennine League 2010–11 season.\n\nIn November 1994, Bloem was the first rugby league player to test positive for performance enhancing anabolic steroid nandrolone, he was banned for two years.\n\nBloem was the captain of South Africa (RL) during the 2000 World Cup, he was eligible for Scotland (RL) through his mother's nationality.\n\nBloem has also had spells with rugby union sides; Halifax RUFC, Thornensians RUFC (Thorne, Doncaster), and Old Brodleians RUFC (Hipperholme, Halifax, West Yorkshire), whom he took to their first promotion in 75 years, he moved to Old Rishworthians RUFC (Rishworth, Halifax, West Yorkshire) as player-coach for the 2007–08 season, he was the top point scorer for Old Rishworthians in 2007–08, breaking the club record with 375 points in the season, he became player-coach at Halifax Vandals RUFC at the start of the 2013–2014 season.\n\nBloem became a BBC radio rugby league sports summariser, and a rugby league referee and controlled the Nordic Cup match between Norway and Sweden at Partille Ground (Spartacus Rugby Club), Gothenburg on Saturday 30 October 2010.\n\nJamie Bloem was wrongly accused of having sex with a minor, the charge was found to be completely without foundation.\n"}
{"id": "40170605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40170605", "title": "John Sontag", "text": "John Sontag\n\nJohn Sontag (May 27, 1861 - July 3, 1893) was an outlaw of the American West known mostly for train robberies. He was originally from Mankato, Minnesota.\n\nSontag was the older of two sons of Jacob Contant and the former Maria Bohn. After the death of his father in 1867, he took the name John Sontag from his stepfather, Matthias Sontag, his mother's second husband, a veteran of the Union Army during the Civil War. Sontag's younger brother, George (born 1864), kept the name Contant. The two were frequent partners in crime and known as The Sontag Brothers. After he stole cigars from an employer, George Contant was sent to reform school in St. Paul, Minnesota. A subsequent conviction for theft led to Contant's imprisonment at the Nebraska State Penitentiary in Omaha.\n\nSontag came to California to work for the Southern Pacific Transportation Company. He crushed a leg while coupling rail cars in the company yard in Fresno. He accused Southern Pacific of failure to care for his on-the-job wounds and then refusal to rehire him after he had healed. In 1889, John Sontag was employed on a farm in Tulare County near Visalia by Christopher \"Chris\" Evans, a Canadian who had migrated to California. Evans was outraged over the dealings of the Southern Pacific, for high freight rates and the application of undue pressure to force landowners to sell their property to the railroad. The seizure of particularly valuable wheat-farming land is known as the Mussel Slough Tragedy. Though called the Pacific and Southwestern, the Southern Pacific is the actual villain of Frank Norris' 1901 muckraking novel, \"\", a dramatization set in the San Joaquin Valley and stemming from the injustice of Mussel Slough.\n\nSontag and Evans leased a livery stable in Modesto, but after a year the structure burned, and the horses were lost in the fire. The two began robbing trains near Visalia in such locations as Ceres, Goshen, Pixley, and Atila, later Earlimart. After each robbery, the gang hid in the foothills of the Eshom Valley in such remote places as Fort Defiance, or Roop's Fort near Susanville, California. The bandits placed horses at the spot near the railroad track where they intended to stop the train. The outlaws then walked back to the depot and secretly boarded the train. When the train reached the area with the waiting horses, the bandits would burst forth from hiding and order the engineer to halt the train. The outlaws dynamited the express car to gain access to the money on board. Finally, they mounted their waiting horses and embarked on a hasty getaway.\n\nAfter George Contant was released from prison in Omaha, he, Sontag, and Evans traveled to Minnesota, where on July 1, 1892, they attempted to rob a train while they were riding along the Minnesota River between St. Peter and Kasota. They acquired nothing of much value, but their crime aroused the concern of Pinkerton detectives.\n\nA month later, back in California, the trio robbed a train at Collis, now Kerman in Fresno County. This time, they acquired $500 and bags of Mexican and Peruvian coins of no apparent value. Several days after the robbery, law-enforcement officers arrested Contant in connection with the crime, but Sontag and Evans fled as fugitives. The manhunt for the two about Visalia lasted for nearly a year. Their capture resulted in what is called the Battle of Stone Corral.\n\nFound guilty of train robbery in October 1892, Contant was incarcerated for fifteen years at Folsom State Prison. The following June 1893, John Sontag sustained severe wounds in the chest and forehead and died, if not from the wounds then from tetanus, while he was in custody in Fresno. He had been injured by shots fired from a posse sent from Visalia. Sontag was captured while lying miserably in straw and manure near a deserted cabin at Stone Corral. In the shootout with the posse, Chris Evans lost an eye and his left arm and surrendered. He too was sent to Folsom, where he remained for seventeen years until pardoned by Governor Hiram Johnson. Evans denied that he had ever robbed a train and when he killed, he claimed to have done so only in self-defense. He was banished from California and spent his last years in Portland, Oregon, where he died in 1917, having in prison turned to socialism as his remedy for what he perceived as the corrupt practices of business conglomerates.\n\nAfter his release from prison, George Contant wrote an autobiography, \"A Pardoned Lifer,\" with Opie Warner as his ghostwriter. He lectured on the folly of living outside the law. His many lecture appearances brought him to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Minneapolis, and at the Mankato Opera House. About 1915, Contant produced a film, \"The Folly of a Life of Crime\"; all copies have been lost.\n\nJohn Sontag is interred at Calvary Cemetery in Fresno, where he died shortly after his 32nd birthday. Oddly, his tombstone has the wrong year of his death, 1892, instead of 1893. The headstone erroneously indicates that Sontag was 33 years, 6 months, and 4 days old at the time of his death. Contant's last whereabouts are unknown. He was listed in 1929 in the obituary of his mother as a surviving son residing in San Francisco.\n\nThe Sontag-Evans case is featured in one of the last episodes of the syndicated television series, \"Stories of the Century\", starring and narrated by Jim Davis, with Kristine Miller. Davis and Miller portray fictitious railroad detectives, Matt Clark and Margaret Jones, who are investigating California train robberies. John Smith’’, later of the NBC western series, \"Laramie\", played John Sontag; Morris Ankrum, a former lawyer, was cast as Chris Evans. The characters' ages are historically wrong. Though Sontag was fourteen years younger than Evans, John Smith was thirty-four years younger than Ankrum. The real Sontag was engaged to Evans’s daughter, Eva, but the television episode reflects on a courtship between Sontag and Sue Evans, a niece of Chris Evans. Sue, played by Claudia Barrett, was eight years older than John Smith.\n\nOn \"Stories of the Century\", authorities send Margaret Jones to pose as the nonexistent \"Mrs. Sontag\" with the expectation that an outraged Sue Evans will indeed show them the path to the hideout. Howard Negley plays Sheriff Nate Owens, who connects Sontag and Evans to the train robbery at Collis through the discovery of one of the Peruvian coins on Evans' property.\n"}
{"id": "11082630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11082630", "title": "Julius Mac Leod", "text": "Julius Mac Leod\n\nJulius Mac Leod (19 February 1857 – 3 March 1919), was a Belgian biologist and professor at the University of Ghent. His father was of Scottish descent.\n\nMac Leod was born in Ostend. He was also director of the botanical garden. Julius Mac Leod was an active member of the Flemish movement and a proponent of the usage of Flemish at the University of Ghent. He died in Ghent during the Spanish Flu epidemic of 1918-1919.\n\n"}
{"id": "15154027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15154027", "title": "Justinus Darmojuwono", "text": "Justinus Darmojuwono\n\nJustinus Darmojuwono (2 November 1914 – 3 February 1994) was an Indonesian Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Archbishop of Semarang from 1963 to 1981 and was elevated to the cardinalate in 1967, becoming the first Indonesian to be a cardinal.\n\nJustinus Darmojuwono was born in Klewonan, Godean, Yogyakarta. Son of Surodikira and Ngatinah, his early life as an ordinary villager son was a happy and proud time for him. He and his family worked together to fulfill their daily needs. He was a Muslim, but converted to Catholicism in 1932 following his brother's conversion. Actually, Justinus Darmojuwono did not get permission to be a priest from his father. But, because of his strong self-determination to become a priest, his father allowed him to enter the seminary on 30 September 1935. After he graduated from the minor seminary of Mertoyudan, Magelang, he continued to the major seminary of St. Paul, Yogyakarta. He was ordained priest by Mgr. Soegijapranata in Kotabaru, Yogyakarta, in 1947. He also studied at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome.\n\nAfter ordination, he was first appointed to serve at Kidul Loji Church, Yogyakarta, for 35 days. Then he was sent to Ganjuran Church to take care of seminary students, because the minor seminary was destroyed and the Vicar Apostolic of Semarang sent the seminarians to the Ganjuran church. In the middle of 1950, Darmojuwono was appointed to serve at St. Mary of Assumption Church, Klaten, and also to serve as a military curate. At the time, the military commander was Suharto, later the President of Indonesia.\n\nFrom Klaten he moved to Surakarta in 1952. After a few months in Surakarta he was ordered to study missiology at Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome. After he returned from Rome, he became a curate in Purbayan, Surakarta, and also served as a military chaplain. Then he was sent to establish a new church in 1961 and became its pastor. The church was later named Maria Regina Purbawardayan Church.\n\nIn 1962, he was appointed to serve as a parish priest at the Semarang Cathedral and also as Vicar General of the Archdiocese of Semarang. Then Archbishop of Semarang Mgr. Soegijapranata died on a trip to attend the Second Vatican Council.\nDarmojuwono was appointed Archbishop of Semarang by Pope Paul VI on 10 December 1963, and consecrated archbishop by Apostolic Nuncio Mgr. Ottavio de Liva on 6 April 1964.\n\nHe was received by President Sukarno at Merdeka Palace immediately after being ordained archbishop of Semarang in 1964. The President often called him \"Romo Agung\" (Great Clergyman), but he preferred to be called \"Romo\" (Clergyman).\n\nAs an archbishop, he attended the third and fourth sessions of Second Vatican Council. When he attended the third Council session, Indonesia was in grave danger. The 30 September Movement tragedy happened in 1965, and Darmojuwono was ordered to go home as soon as possible. He followed the news about the G30S tragedy from abroad, and the news was devastating. Many people was killed at the time.\n\nHe was appointed Cardinal-Priest of Ss. Nome di Gesù e Maria in Via Lata by Pope Paul VI on 26 June 1967, as a member of the College of Cardinals. The ordination was done in the Sistine Chapel. He was appointed cardinal together with Karol Wojtyla from Poland, who later became Pope John Paul II. He said that he was appointed cardinal because he was a Head of Supreme Council of Indonesian Bishops (MAWI), and the Head of MAWI is the primus inter pares.\nHe attended the Papal Conclave in August 1978 which appointed Pope John Paul I, and the Papal Conclave in October 1978 which appointed Pope John Paul II. He had been a member of Pontifical Council for Dialogue with Non-Believers.\nWhen Pope Paul VI visited Manila in 1970, he lobbied widely, together with Bishop Labayen from the Philippines and Cardinal Stephen Kim Sou-hwan from South Korea, for the establishment of Federation of Asian Bishops' Conferences. Darmojuwono as a member of the Standing Committee of that conference, and so attended FABC meetings outside the country. Almost all Catholics in Asia at the time knew him from his lobbying in many countries.\nHe resigned from his post as Archbishop of Semarang in 1981 because of health reasons, and settled at the Santa Maria Fatima Church in Banyumanik, Semarang.\n\nHe became a consecrator for 13 bishops in Indonesia and was a Cardinal for 29 years. Mgr. Justinus Darmojuwono died on 3 February 1994 in Semarang, Indonesia. He was buried at Kerkhoof Muntilan cemetery, beside other prominent Catholics like Van Lith, SJ, and Beato R. Sandjaja. \n\n"}
{"id": "52128004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52128004", "title": "Ko Young-tae", "text": "Ko Young-tae\n\nKo Young-tae (born 1976) is a South Korean businessman and fencer. He competed in the individual and team sabre events at the 1998 Asian Games.\n\nKo was a close friend of Choi Soon-sil. Ko is suspected of being involved in the management of The Blue K, Widec Sports, and paper companies. Choi set up these companies in Korea and Germany allegedly to funnel money from the foundations.\n\nHe became one of the figures in the 2016 South Korean political scandal, and has been described as a whistleblower. He disclosed a documentary showing that his neighbors tried to steal the money from the Mir and the Blue K Foundation by using Choi Soon Shin.\n\n"}
{"id": "24718821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24718821", "title": "List of TV Guide covers (1950s)", "text": "List of TV Guide covers (1950s)\n\nThis is a list of issue covers of \"TV Guide\" magazine for the decade of the 1950s, from its national launch in April 1953 through December 1959. The entries on this table include each cover's subjects and their artists (photographer or illustrator). This list is for the regular weekly issues of \"TV Guide\"; any one-time-only special issues are not included. From April 3, 1953 to July 9, 1954, the magazine organized their TV listings from Friday to Thursday. Starting July 17, 1954, the pattern was reorganized in order from Saturday to Friday and would be done in this manner until April 3, 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "3663075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3663075", "title": "List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people: A", "text": "List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people: A\n\n\"Parent article:\" List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people;<br>\n\"Siblings:\"<br>\n\nThis is a partial list of confirmed famous people who were or are gay, lesbian or bisexual. Famous people who are simply rumored to be gay, lesbian or bisexual, are not listed.\nThe historical concept and definition of sexual orientation varies and has changed greatly over time; for example the word \"gay\" wasn't used to describe sexual orientation until the mid-20th century. A number of different classification schemes have been used to describe sexual orientation since the mid-19th century, and scholars have often defined the term \"sexual orientation\" in divergent ways. Indeed, several studies have found that much of the research about sexual orientation has failed to define the term at all, making it difficult to reconcile the results of different studies. However, most definitions include a psychological component (such as the direction of an individual's erotic desire) and/or a behavioural component (which focuses on the sex of the individual's sexual partner/s). Some prefer to simply follow an individual's self-definition or identity. See homosexuality and bisexuality for criteria that have traditionally denoted lesbian, gay and bisexual (LGB) people.\n\nThe high prevalence of people from the West on this list may be due to societal attitudes toward homosexuality. The Pew Research Center's 2003 Global Attitudes Survey found that \"[p]eople in Africa and the Middle East strongly object to societal acceptance of homosexuality. But there is far greater tolerance for homosexuality in major Latin American countries such as Mexico, Argentina, Bolivia and Brazil. Opinion in Europe is split between West and East. Majorities in every Western European nation surveyed say homosexuality should be accepted by society, while most Russians, Poles and Ukrainians disagree. Americans are divided – a narrow majority (51 percent) believes homosexuality should be accepted, while 42 percent disagree.\"\n"}
{"id": "40138269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40138269", "title": "List of literary dunces", "text": "List of literary dunces\n\nThis is a list of literary dunces – persons, either real or legendary, who are used in literature as targets of satire.\n\n"}
{"id": "7933169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7933169", "title": "Lucy Brocadelli", "text": "Lucy Brocadelli\n\nThe Blessed Lucy Brocadelli, O.S.D. (also known as the Blessed Lucy of Narni), (13 December 1476 in Narni – 15 November 1544 in Ferrara) was a Dominican tertiary who was famed as a mystic and a stigmatic. She has been venerated by the Roman Catholic Church since 1710. She is known for being the counselor of the Duke of Ferrara, for founding convents in two different and hostile city-states and for her remains being solemnly returned to her home city of Narni on 26 May 1935, 391 years after her death. \nLucy was born in 13 December 1476 on the feast day of St. Lucy of Syracuse, the eldest of eleven children of Bartolomeo Brocadelli and Gentilina Cassio, in the town of Narni (then called \"Narnia\") and in the region of Umbria. A pious child, she is said to have received visions from an early age. When she was twelve years old, Lucy made a private vow of chastity, and she determined to become a Dominican nun. \nCircumstances, however, changed to make doing so impossible as her father died the following year, leaving her in the care of an uncle. This uncle, following the wish of her father while he was still alive, decided that the best course of action he could take would be to get Lucy married as quickly as possible. He made several attempts to do so. One of these included holding a large family party. He had invited the man he had chosen to become Lucy's husband to the party, with the intention of having the couple publicly betrothed. He however had not informed Lucy of his intentions. The suitor made an attempt to put a ring on Lucy's finger, only to be slapped repeatedly by her for his efforts.\nA later attempt involved Count Pietro di Alessio of Milan, an acquaintance of the family. Lucy was actually quite fond of him, but felt that her earlier vow of perpetual virginity made the marriage impossible. The strain Lucy felt as a result of the conflicting feelings made her seriously ill. During this time, the Virgin Mary and Saint Dominic again appeared to her, this time accompanied by St. Catherine of Siena. They reportedly advised Lucy to contract a legal marriage to Pietro, but to explain that her vow of virginity would have to be respected and not violated. Pietro agreed to the terms, and the marriage was formalized.\nIn 1491 Lucy became Pietro's legal wife and the mistress of his household, which included a number of servants and a busy social calendar. Despite her busy social schedule as a Countess, Lucy made great efforts to instruct the servants in the Catholic faith and soon became well known locally for her charity to the poor. Pietro observed Lucy's behavior, and occasional quirks, quite indulgently. He never objected when she gave away clothing and food. Nor when she performed austere penances, which included regularly wearing a hair shirt under her garments and spending most of the night in prayer and helping the poor. He also seemed to have taken in stride the story he was told by the servants that Lucy was often visited in the evenings by Saint Catherine, Saint Agnes, and Saint Agnes of Montepulciano, who helped her make bread for the poor.\n\nHowever, when one of the servants came up to him one day and told him that Lucy was privately entertaining a handsome young man she appeared to be quite familiar with, he did react. He took up his sword and went to see who this person was. When he arrived, he found Lucy contemplating a large crucifix. The servant told him that the man he had seen Lucy with looked like the figure on the crucifix.\n\nLater Lucy left one night for a local Franciscan friary, only to find it closed. She returned home the following morning, stating that she had been led back by two saints. That was enough for Pietro. He had her locked away for the bulk of one Lenten season. She was visited only by servants who brought her food. When Easter arrived, however, she managed to escape from Pietro back to her mother's house and, on 8 May 1494, became a Dominican tertiary. Pietro expressed his disapproval of this in a rather dramatic form—by burning down the monastery of the prior who had given her the habit of the Order.\n\nIn 1495 Lucy went to Rome and joined a group of Dominican tertiaries who were living in community. The next year she was sent to Viterbo to establish a new convent and there she found she was frequently the object of unwanted attention. It was there, on 25 February 1496, that she is reported to have received the stigmata. Lucy did her best to hide these marks, and was frequently in spiritual ecstasy. The house had a steady stream of visitors who came to speak to Lucy, and, often, just to stare at her. Even the other sisters were concerned about her, and at one point called in the local bishop who watched Lucy go through the drama of the Passion for twelve hours straight.\n\nThe bishop would not make a decision on Lucy, and called in the local Inquisition. Reports here vary, some indicating that he referred the case directly to the pope, who is said to have spoken with her and, with the assistance of Columba of Rieti (another mystic of the Dominican Third Order), ultimately decided in her favor, telling her to go home and pray for him. At that time Pietro also came to her, making a final plea to persuade Lucia to return with him as his wife. She declined, and Pietro left alone. He would himself later become a Franciscan friar and a famous preacher.\n\nWhen Lucy returned to the convent in Viterbo, she found that the Duke of Ferrara, Ercole d'Este I, had determined to build a convent in Ferrara, a city about 230 miles north, and that, having heard of her, he determined that she would be its prioress. In the summer of 1497 he invited her to be the founder of this new community. Lucy, the Dominican Order, and the pope all agreed quickly to the new proposal. The municipal council of Viterbo, however, objected, not wanting to lose their celebrated mystic. She had already been praying for some time for a way to create a new community of stricter observance, however, and agreed to go to the new convent.\n\nLucy's departure precipitated a conflict between Ferrara and Viterbo which would continue for two years. Viterbo wanted to keep the famous mystic for themselves, and the Duke wanted her in Ferrara. After extensive correspondence between the parties, on April 15, 1499 Lucy escaped secretly from Viterbo and was officially received in Ferrara on May 7, 1499. Thirteen young girls immediately applied for admission to her new community; the construction of the monastery began in June and was completed two years later, in August 1501. It contained 140 cells for religious sisters and the novices, but to fill it with suitable vocations proved to be very difficult.\n\nLucy expressed the wish to have there some of her former friends from Viterbo and Narni. Duke Ercole, in September 1501, sent his messenger to Rome asking for the help of the pope's daughter, Lucrezia Borgia, who was preparing to marry the Duke's son, Alfonso. She collected all eleven candidates whom Lucy had indicated, and sent them as a special wedding present to Lucy and the Duke, a few days ahead of her bridal party. She herself solemnly entered Ferrara on 2 February 1502.\nThe Duke petitioned the local bishop for some help for Lucy in governing her new community, and the bishop sent ten women from a local monastery to join Lucia's convent. For better or worse, these women were members of the Dominican Second Order, who were canonical nuns and were thus permitted to wear black veils, something Lucy and the other Sisters of the Dominican Third Order community were not. The differences in canonical standing and requirements between the two groups was to cause friction in the convent.\nTensions were heightened when one of these veiled outsiders, Sister Maria da Parma, O.P., was made the prioress of the convent on September 2, 1503. When Duke Ercole died on 24 January 1505, the new prioress quickly found Lucy to be guilty of some unrecorded transgression (most probably of her open and public the support for the Savonarolan church reform), and placed her on a strict penance. Lucy was not allowed to speak to any person but her confessor, who was chosen by the prioress. The local Prior Provincial of the Dominican Order would also not permit any member of the Order to see her. There are records that at least one Dominican, Catherine of Racconigi, did visit her, evidently by bilocation, and that Lucy's earlier visitations by departed saints continued. In response to Lucy's insistent prayer, her stigmata eventually disappeared, which caused some of the other members of the community to question whether they had ever been there at all. This punishment was to last her entire life, or at least until 1541, when a niece of Girolamo Savonarola was elected prioress. When Lucy died on November 15, 1544, many people were surprised to find that she had not died years earlier.\n\nSuddenly everything changed. When her body was laid out for burial so many people wanted to pay their last respects that her funeral had to be delayed by three days. Her tomb in the convent church was opened four years later and her perfectly preserved body was transferred to a glass case.\n\nWhen the French Revolutionary Army suppressed the convent in 1797, her body was transferred to the Cathedral of Ferrara, and again, on 26 May 1935, to the former Cathedral of Narni, as the diocese had been merged with another.\n\nLucy was beatified by Pope Clement XI on 1 March 1710.\n\nSister Lucia has an important part in \"Prince of Foxes\" by Samuel Shellabarger, a historical novel which dramatizes her escape from Viterbo and which some consider Shellabarger's best.\n\nShe also was possibly a source of inspiration for \"The Chronicles of Narnia\" by C.S. Lewis, as Lucy, a girl that believes and can see many things that other people cannot see. Walter Hooper, a biographer of Lewis, has referred to the possible connection.\n\nGeorgiana Fullerton, \"Blessed Lucy of Narni.\" Part Two of \"The Life of St. Frances of Rome, of blessed Lucy of Narni, etc.\" New York 1855, 139-158. [20 p.]. 206 p.\n\nEdmund G. Gardner, \"Dukes and Poets in Ferrara: A Study in the Poetry, Religion, and Politics of the Fifteenth and Early Sixteenth Centuries.\" New York 1968 (1904), pp. 364–423, 466. 578 p. \nE. Ann Matter, \"Prophetic Patronage as Repression: Lucia Brocadelli da Narnia and Ercole d'Este.\" In Scott L. Waugh and Peter D. Diehl (ed.), \"Christendom and Its Discontents: Exclusion, Persecution, and Rebellion, 1000-1500.\" Cambridge 1996, 168-176. [9 p.] 376 p.\nLucia Brocadelli, \"Seven Revelations: The Book of Blessed Lucia of Narni written in her own hand in the year of Our Lord 1544.\" Introduced and Translated by E. Ann Matter. Published by Maiju Lemijoke-Gardner (ed.), in \"Dominican Penitent Women\" pp. 216–243. New York 2005, 316 p. \nTamar Herzig, \"Witches, Saints, and Heretics: Heinrich Kramer's Ties with Italian Women Mystics.\" In \"Magic, Ritual, and Witchcraft (journal),\" Summer 2006, 24-55 [32 p.] \"Herzig writes: \"Lucia Brocadelli, also known as Lucia of Narni, [is] the most famous Italian living saint ('santa viva') of the early sixteenth century\", p.31.\" \nAntonio Samaritani, \"Lucia da Narni ed Ercole I d'Este a Ferrara tra Caterina da Siena, Girolamo Savonarola e i Piagnoni. Fonti e letteratura.\" Ferrara, Edizioni Cartografica 2006. 113 p. (30 cm) \nTamar Herzig, \"Savonarola's Women: Visions and Reform in Renaissance Italy.\" The University of Chicago Press 2008, 320 p. \nLucia da Narni, \"Vita della Beata Lucia da Narni domenicana copiata dall' Autografo della detta Beata (Autobiografia 1544).\" The manuscript recently discovered in Bologna and published by E. Ann Matter and Gabriella Zarri in \"Una mistica contestata : la Vita di Lucia da Narni (1476-1544) tra agiografia e autobiografia (pp.1-255).\" Roma, 2011. LVI, 262 p. \n\n"}
{"id": "42722932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42722932", "title": "Made Subandi", "text": "Made Subandi\n\nI Made Subandi (born February 1966, Batubulan) is a gamelan composer and performer from Gianyar, Bali. Having studied with his father, drummer and \"gender wayang\" player I Made Dig, and at SMKI ('85-'88) and STSI ('89-'93), he teaches at the Indonesian Academy of Performing Arts in Bali. In 1999, during his residency with Gamelan Sekar Jaya, he composed a soundtrack for the 1933 silent film \"Legong Dance of the Virgins\" with American composer Richard Marriott, scored for Balinese gamelan, string quartet, trumpet and clarinet. He has collaborated with Dutch trio Boi Akih and American ensemble Club Foot Orchestra. He is well known for his use of experimentation. Tenzer describes Subandi as one of a few composers who, \"have achieved a self-conscious and fundamental break with the \"tabuh kreasi\" form of the recent past.\"\n\nCompositions include \"Bajramusti\" (1997). He has collaborated with Dutch trio Boi Akih. \n\n"}
{"id": "6536593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6536593", "title": "Magnolia Antonino", "text": "Magnolia Antonino\n\nMagnolia Welborn-Antonino (December 14, 1915 – July 22, 2010) was a Senator of the Philippines. The daughter of George Welborn and Hipolita Rodriguez, she was married to Gaudencio Antonino, also a Senator. She was born in Balaoan, La Union.\n\nSenator Magnolia W. Antonino was born in Balaoan, La Union, on December 14, 1915. Daughter of George Welborn and Hipolita Rodriguez.\n\nShe was married to the Senator Gaudencio Antonino of Jaen Nueva Ecija. The couple had four children, including Nueva Ecija Congressman Rodolfo \"Rody\" Antonino.\n\nShe graduated from the Balaoan public schools and La Union High school and completed combined normal courses from the Philippine Normal School in 1934. She started as a home economics teacher in La Union then became principal at the Balaoan Elementary School.\n\nShe was elected in the House of Representatives as an independent candidate for the first district of La Union in 1965. She ran and won as senator in lieu of her husband who died on the eve of the 1967 senatorial election.\n\nDuring her term as senator from 1968 to 1972, Antonino worked for the passage of laws including Republic Act 6124 (Providing for the Fixing of the Maximum Selling Prices of Essential Articles or Commodities and Creating the Price Control Council); RA 6235 (Prohibiting Explosives and Flammables, Corrosive or Poisonous Substances or Material in Passenger Aircraft and Regulating the Loading thereof in Cargo Aircraft); and RA 6395 which consolidated and revised the Charter of the National Power Corporation.\n\nShe also helped enact laws that benefited women and children, farmers through increased production of rice and corn, and people from the government and education sectors.\n\nShe was treasurer of the Antonino Construction Enterprises (1946–1953); secretary-treasurer, then manager, Western Mindanao Lumber Co.; general manager, G. E. Antonio, Inc., treasurer, Polytechnic Colleges of the Philippines; director, Philippine Commercial and Industrial Bank and Luzon Cement Corporation.\n\nShe was an officer and member of various social and civic organizations, including Inner Wheel Club of Manila, WYCA, Manila Girl Scouts Council, Philippine Band of Mercy, Philippine Garden Club. Antonino is also grandmother to General Santos Rep. Darlene Antonino-Custodio of the 1st district of South Cotabato.\n\nAntonino died July 22, 2010 at the age of 94.\n\n"}
{"id": "3664180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3664180", "title": "Mara Branković", "text": "Mara Branković\n\nMara Branković (c. 1416 in Vučitrn – 14 September 1487), also known as \"Sultana Marija\", \"Mara Hatun\", \"Despina Hatun\", or \"Amerissa\", was the daughter of Serbian monarch Đurađ (George) Branković and Eirene Kantakouzene. She entered the harem of Sultan Murad II of the Ottoman Empire. The coast between Salonica and Kassandra peninsula has been named \"Kalamarija\" after her – \"\"Mary the Good\".\"\n\nMara and her relations are named in \"Dell' Imperadori Constantinopolitani\", a manuscript held in the Vatican Library. The document is also known as the \"Massarelli manuscript\" because it was found in the papers of Angelo Massarelli (1510–1566). Masarelli is better known as the general secretary of the Council of Trent, who recorded the daily occurrings of the council.\n\nThe Massarelli manuscript names her as one of two daughters of Đurađ Branković and Eirene Kantakouzene. The other sister was Catherine (Kanatakuzina Katarina Branković or Katarina of Celje), who was married to Ulrich II, Count of Celje (1406-1456). \"The Byzantine Lady: Ten Portraits 1250–1500\" (1994) by D. M. Nicol questioned her maternity, suggesting Đurađ had a prior marriage to a daughter of John IV of Trebizond. However his theory presented no sources and failed to take into account that John IV was born between 1395 and 1417. He would be unlikely to be a grandparent by the 1410s.\n\nOn 11 September 1429, Đurađ made a donation to Esphigmenou Monastery at Mount Athos.\nThe charter for the document names his wife Irene and five children. The Masarelli manuscript also names the same five children of Đurađ and Eirene. Other genealogies mention a sixth child, Todor Branković. He could be a child who died young and thus not listed with his siblings.\n\nThe oldest sibling listed in the Massarelli document was Grgur Branković. The 1429 document mentions him with the title of Despot. According to \"The Late Medieval Balkans, A Critical Survey from the Late Twelfth Century to the Ottoman Conquest\" (1994) by J. V. A. Fine, Grgur was appointed governor of territories of southern Serbia associated to the House of Branković. He was reportedly appointed by Murad II of the Ottoman Empire in 1439. In April 1441, Grgur was accused of plotting against Murad and his governorship terminated. He was imprisoned in Amasya and blinded on 8 May 1441. According to \"Monumenta Serbica Spectantia Historiam Serbiae, Bosniae, Ragusii\" (1858) by Franc Miklošič, Grgur and his brothers co-signed a charter by which Đurađ confirmed the privileges of the Republic of Ragusa. The charted was dated to 17 September 1445. According to the \"Europäische Stammtafeln: Stammtafeln zur Geschichte der Europäischen Staaten\" (1978) by Detlev Schwennicke, Grgur retired to a monastery under the monastic name \"German\". According to Fine, Grgur resurfaced in 1458, claiming the succession of the vacant throne of Rascia for himself or his son. The Massarelli manuscript mentioned Grgur as unwed. Later genealogies name his wife as \"Jelisaveta\". Vuk Grgurević, a son of Grgur, was later a titular Serbian despot (1471–1485). He was possibly an illegitimate.\n\nMara is mentioned as the second child in the manuscript. Then are listed Stefan Branković and \"Cantacuzina\", a sister with the Latinized version of their mother's last name. Later genealogies give her name as Katarina. She married Ulrich II of Celje. The last sibling mentioned was Lazar Branković, the youngest of the five.\n\nAccording to Fine, Mara was betrothed to Murad II in June 1431. The betrothal was an attempt to prevent an invasion of Serbia from the Ottoman Empire, though periodic Ottoman raids continued. On 4 September 1435, the marriage took place at Edirne. Her dowry included the districts of\nDubočica and Toplica.\n\nAccording to the chronicle of George Sphrantzes, Mara was going back to her parents when Murad II died. Dating her return to 1451. Sphrantzes records that the widow rejected a marriage proposal by Constantine XI, Byzantine Emperor. Sphrantzes records that when her parents died (in 1456–1457), Mara joined the court of her stepson Mehmed II. According to Nicol, Mara maintained a presence at court but was also offered her own estate at \"Ježevo\". Nicol identifies Ježevo with the modern settlement of Dafni in Mount Athos. When Mehmed became sultan, she often provided him with advice. Her court at Ježevo included exiled Serbian nobles.\n\nAccording to Nicol, Mara was joined at \"Ježevo\" by her sister \"Cantacuzina\" in 1469. The two ladies acted as intermediaries between Mehmed and the Republic of Venice during the second Ottoman–Venetian War (1463–1479). In 1471, Branković personally accompanied a Venetian ambassador to the Porte for negotiations with the Sultan.\n\nShe retained her influence over the appointment of leaders of the Orthodox Church, and remained influential during the reign of Mehmed's successor, Bayezid II. The monks of Rila monastery begged her to have the remains of John of Rila transferred to Rila monastery from Veliko Tarnovo, and thanks to her their wish was fulfilled in 1469. Because of her influence, special privileges were offered to the Greek Orthodox Christians of Jerusalem, later extended to the community of Athos Monastery. After the unsuccessful Battle of Vaslui (Moldavia, 1475), Mara remarked that the battle was the worst defeat for the Ottoman Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "13758651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13758651", "title": "Marius Barnard (surgeon)", "text": "Marius Barnard (surgeon)\n\nMarius Stephanus Barnard (November 3, 1927 – November 14, 2014) was a South African cardiac surgeon and inventor of critical illness insurance.\n\nBarnard was a member of the team headed by his brother Christiaan Barnard that performed the world's first human-to-human heart transplantation in 1967. Specifically, he was one of the surgeons who removed the heart from donor Denise Darvall at Groote Schuur Hospital. After a 2009 documentary film \"Hidden Heart\" suggested that Hamilton Naki removed the donor heart, Barnard was quoted as describing the film as \"rubbish, a joke, it’s a total distortion of the facts\" and as stating that Naki was at the time \"in his bed, about 8 km away from Groote Schuur\".\n\nBarnard was motivated by the financial hardship he saw his patients suffer after he had treated their critical illnesses to convince the South African insurance companies to introduce a new type of insurance to cover critical illnesses. Barnard argued that, as a medical doctor, he can repair a man physically, but only insurers can repair a patient's finances. On 06 August 1983 the first critical illness insurance policy was launched.\n\nBarnard was a member of the South African parliament between 1980 and 1989, for the Progressive Federal Party - one of the few political parties that opposed apartheid. He later acted as a technical consultant for Scottish Widows. Barnard has received many awards for his contributions to medicine and humanity, and was voted in the top 25 most influential people in the field of health insurance and protection.\n\nHe died on November 14, 2014 after battling with prostate cancer.\n"}
{"id": "1963654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1963654", "title": "Mark Fowler", "text": "Mark Fowler\n\nMark Fowler is a fictional character in the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\". Mark, an original regular character when the series started in February 1985, became a semi-regular after his original portrayer David Scarboro was written out of the role in April 1985. Scarboro made brief returns to the role in 1986 and 1987. Scarboro died in April 1988, and the role was recast in 1990, with former Grange Hill regular Todd Carty taking on the role. From this point the character was a permanent fixture in the series and Carty remained in the role until the character was written out of the series in early 2003. \n\nInitially a delinquent teenager, he became a changed man when he was 22. His contracting HIV forced him to grow up fast and accept his responsibilities. He frequently found it difficult to accept the restrictions of the illness, which finally caused his death in April 2004.\n\nMark is the elder son of Albert Square residents Arthur Fowler (Bill Treacher) and Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard). Initially, Mark gets involved in drugs with Nick Cotton (John Altman), attempts to join a racist organisation known as The New Movement, is a suspect in Reg Cox's (Johnnie Clayton) murder, and generally clashes with his parents. With no solution to these problems in sight, he abruptly leaves home without telling anyone. He is not seen again until eight months later when he contacts his parents through a runaways' agency and Pauline and Arthur find him in Southend-on-Sea. Mark is living with an older Swedish woman named Ingrid (Sally Faulkner) and her two children, John (Anthony Short) and Melanie (Vanessa Short), who call Mark \"Daddy\". He and Ingrid split up soon afterwards and Mark moves around the country.\n\nMark returns to Walford several times for brief visits. In July, he brings his Welsh friend Owen Hughes (Philip Brock). The duo cause problems after Cassie Carpenter (Delanie Forbes) steals their cannabis and her parents, Tony Carpenter (Oscar James) and Hannah Carpenter (Sally Sagoe), catch her smoking it; the Carpenters refuse to speak to the Fowlers for some time afterwards. In November, Pauline receives news that Mark is in Borstal detention centre for drug offences, burglary, and assaulting a policeman. Visiting him, Pauline finds him unrepentant but due for release in a few weeks. After his release he briefly returns to Walford, but refuses to stay despite Pauline's pleas. He is not seen again until Christmas the same year, when he visits unexpectedly to spend the day with his family. Mark astutely guesses that Den Watts (Leslie Grantham) is his niece's father but keeps this to himself. This is the last time Mark is seen for several years.\n\nMark returns to Albert Square, a changed man. He is more caring and stable, having grown out of his rebellious stage. His new maturity is due to the fact that he has contracted HIV, which has forced him to become more responsible. Mark develops a close friendship with Diane Butcher (Sophie Lawrence) and initially doesn't tell anyone about his HIV status. But as he and Diane grow closer, he finally tells her the truth. He believes that he contracted the virus from Gill Robinson (Susanna Dawson), his girlfriend in Newcastle, who visits briefly later that year but leaves when she sees him kissing Diane. Mark initially tells Gill that he isn't infected but later tells the truth. Mark's relationship with Diane never becomes serious but she is a good friend and confidante and persuades Mark to have counselling at the Terrence Higgins Trust. Mark initially turns on his male counsellor, relaying his bitterness at being a potential AIDS victim, but later feels the benefits of the counselling. Mark loves Diane for keeping his secret and he asks her to marry him but she gently refuses and leaves Walford to live in France.\n\nLater that year, following the example of a friend Joe Wallace (Jason Rush) who had told his parents about being gay and HIV-positive, Mark decides to tell his parents. By now, he is dating Rachel Kominski (Jacquetta May), who advises him not to but Mark is tired of the pretence. On Boxing Day Mark tells Pauline and Arthur that he is HIV-positive. They sit in stunned silence while he scatters helpful leaflets around the house and then goes away for a while. On his return, he faces Pauline's irrational terror and Arthur's hostility. Arthur's ignorance is apparent initially as he fears that Mark will pass HIV on to him; he even bleaches everything Mark touches to avoid infection. Pauline and Michelle Fowler (Susan Tully) are understandably distraught but help Arthur to understand the illness, and are a huge support to Mark. Mark's relationship with Rachel ends, and the animosity at home send Mark back to his girlfriend Gill, who moves to London and becomes seriously ill. Gill's HIV has already progressed into AIDS and her deterioration is rapid. She is diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and goes into a hospice. Mark realises that he is in love with her and asks her to marry him. Mark and Gill marry, and their honeymoon consists of one night in a hotel, before Gill returns to the hospice and dies.\n\nMark later befriends local teenage tearaway Mandy Salter (Nicola Stapleton) but their friendship is severely tested when she becomes obsessed with him. Mark, still grieving for Gill, is horrified when he discovers that Mandy has been reading his late wife's diary and has dressed up in her clothes. Despite this, he invites Mandy to live with him after Kathy Beale (Gillian Taylforth) throws her out. On Christmas Day, Mandy goes to visit her mother but is attacked by her stepfather; Mark arrives just in time to rescue her and invites her for Christmas dinner at the Fowler household.\n\nMark takes over running the family fruit and vegetable stall in the market after his uncle, Pete Beale (Peter Dean), leaves. He also begins casually dating his sister's housemate Shelley Lewis (Nicole Arumugam), but is reluctant to tell her about his HIV status. Whilst on a trip to Amsterdam, Shelley makes it clear to Mark that she wants to sleep with him, forcing him to admit his HIV status. Shelley is furious that he did not think to tell her this before and tells him she never wants to see him again. Mark takes the rejection badly and stops taking his HIV medication. During Christmas that year, he is rushed to hospital after collapsing. When Shelley finds out that Mark is ill, she returns and admits that she really cares for him and they reconcile. However, Shelley tries to rush things by asking Mark to meet her family and go on holiday with her parents. She becomes infatuated and tries to spend as much time with him as she can. Mark fears that the relationship is moving too quickly and Mark decides to end it. When he tries to tell Shelley this, she uses emotional blackmail to stop him, saying that she has risked her health being with him so he owes her. When this doesn't work, she threatens to tell everyone about his HIV status, but leaves Walford when her bluff doesn't work.\n\nMark's friend Joe Wallace dies of an AIDS related illness, and after visiting him in the hospice, he meets a Scottish woman named Ruth Aitken (Caroline Paterson), who is also visiting a friend. After a brief conversation, the two decide to go for a drink together. They start dating and Ruth copes with his HIV status but her father, a strict Presbyterian minister, refuses to give his blessing to her relationship with Mark and disowns her when she announces her plans to marry Mark. They marry in Scotland but problems surface in their marriage. She persuades Mark - and herself - that she is happy about not having children, but it is soon clear that she is fooling herself. \n\nMark is injured in a pub brawl during which he saved Grant Mitchell (Ross Kemp) from getting glassed by a punter. However, after calling the ambulance, Grant overhears Ruth telling the paramedics about Mark's HIV status. This escalates later on when Ben Mitchell gets seriously ill and Grant tells Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden) and Kathy about Mark's condition, causing Ruth to lose her job as a child minder. To add to his problems, Mark is devastated when Arthur dies of a brain haemorrhage after being involved in a prison riot. On the day of his father's funeral, Mark becomes angry that Willy Roper (Michael Tudor-Barnes) had framed Arthur for embezzlement and assaults Willy at the cemetery. He believes that he was the one who led to Arthur's death. \n\nMark's HIV status becomes public knowledge. The depth of ignorance concerning HIV does not help and, led by Peggy Mitchell (Barbara Windsor), the residents begin to boycott Mark's fruit and vegetable stall, fearing they will catch the virus. Pauline springs to her son's defence and she and Peggy have a vicious fight, but even Pauline cannot diffuse the prejudice, and Mark comes home to find the words \"AIDS scum\" graffitied on his wall. This is too much and he decides to present his neighbours with a few facts about his illness in The Queen Victoria; firstly by telling them that he does not have AIDS but is HIV positive, which is a noncontagious virus, forcing them to acknowledge their bigotry. Peggy remains uncertain, but is forced to realise that Mark might appreciate a bit of support when she is diagnosed with breast cancer.\n\nMark and Ruth foster a six-year-old girl named Jessie Moore (Chelsey Paden), but returning her to her mother proves too heartbreaking and their marriage goes into crisis. When Mark's cousin Conor Flaherty (Seán Gleeson) shows an interest in Ruth, Mark gets jealous and the relationship falls apart. After they split, Ruth succumbs to Conor's charm and becomes pregnant by him. She leaves Walford with Conor, leaving Mark heartbroken.\n\nMark's feud with Nick Cotton (John Altman) resurfaces after he discovers that Nick gave his brother, Martin Fowler (James Alexandrou), ecstasy. Mark snaps, spikes Nick's drink, leads him up to the Walford viaduct, and watches delightedly as the intoxicated Nick falls. He survives but he is severely crippled, and he vengefully enlists his son Ashley (Frankie Fitzgerald) to take revenge on Mark. Ashley steals Mark's motorbike and attempts to run him over but Nick had drained the brake fluid from the bike the night before. Ashley crashes into the launderette and is killed. Nick leaves the Square shortly afterwards and never sees Mark again.\n\nMark grows fond of Lisa Shaw (Lucy Benjamin), who is in a rocky relationship with his enemy, Phil Mitchell. When she leaves Phil, she turns to Mark. Mark takes her in and they start dating, much to Pauline's horror. Together, they concoct a plan to pretend that she is expecting Mark's baby when Phil is the actual biological father. To facilitate their lie, Mark insists that he'd taken all necessary precautions in relation to his HIV and they fool everyone for a while. Mark loves Lisa so much that he stays with her after she shoots Phil (who survives), and Mark proposes shortly after baby Louise's birth. However, Louise's godmother, Sharon Watts (Letitia Dean), tells Phil the truth about Louise's parentage and vows to take an active role in his daughter's upbringing. Mark and Lisa marry, but their happiness is short-lived: Lisa is still very much in love with Phil and Phil knows it so he seduces her in order to get more access to Louise. After Sharon discovers Phil's intentions, she talks him out of his plan and he ends the affair with Lisa, but Mark finds out and after just five months of marriage Lisa leaves Mark and resumes her affair with Phil. This causes Mark to break down after he finds out and after clashing with Phil, almost rapes Lisa. Horrified by his actions, Mark leaves Walford for a short while. However, Lisa soon realizes her mistake living with Phil and wants to reconcile with Mark but Pauline refuses to tell her where Mark has gone. Mark eventually returns at Christmas.\n\nIn January 2003, Mark's doctor tells him that his body is rejecting the medication that will prolong his life and slow down the onset of AIDS. Accepting that he's about to die, he decides to leave rather than let his family see him endure a slow, painful death. He makes a tearful farewell to his family and friends and rides off on his motorbike. In April 2004, Martin receives a telephone call from Mark's nurse, informing him that Mark has died of the AIDS-related illness, Non-Hodgkins lymphoma. His body is returned to Walford and he is given a heart-felt send-off by the residents.\n\nMark Fowler was one of the original twenty-three characters invented by the creators of \"EastEnders\", Tony Holland and Julia Smith. Mark was a member of the first family of \"EastEnders\", the Beales and Fowlers, and Holland took the inspiration for some of the series' earliest characters from his own London family and background. Mark's original character outline as written by Smith and Holland appeared in an abridged form in their book, \"EastEnders: The Inside Story\".\n\nSeveral young actors were seen and read for the part of Mark (including Gary Hailes, who would later play the gay barrow boy, Barry Clark). On paper, David Scarboro was the least likely to get the job as he was relatively inexperienced, having previously only appeared in a little-known made-for-television film and \"Grange Hill\". His reading was not a huge success as he mumbled most of his lines. However, Holland and Smith were taken with his appearance, particularly his \"piercing eyes\", which reminded them of James Dean. They felt that he would be \"dynamite on-screen\", and his likeness to their vision of the character was uncanny, so they offered him the role.\n\nMark was originally scripted to be a wayward delinquent and was due to feature heavily within the first year of the series. However, as soon as the regular gruelling schedule of \"EastEnders\" production established itself, it became clear that Scarboro was not happy in the role. The stress of the heavy workload and the sudden fame that came to all the actors became difficult for him to cope with. He became unhappy with the schedule and his scripts and refused to play Mark as a racist as was intended. Holland and Smith decided to write the character out of the show to allow the actor to come to terms with the situation better. On-screen, Mark was being implicated in the murder of Reg Cox (Johnnie Clayton) and was being tempted into heroin by Nick Cotton (John Altman). \n\nFearing Nick Cotton and the police, Mark ran away from home in April 1985. As this had not been the original plan for the character, it meant a hectic period of re-writing early in 1985. The first fifty-odd scripts were reworked to accommodate this major change. Many of the stories intended for Mark were subsequently given to Kelvin Carpenter (Paul J. Medford), Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt) and Mark's sister Michelle (Susan Tully) - which partially explains why her character became so prominent in the first year. It still left a gap though, because several of Mark's functions in the serial, as slightly the eldest of the youngsters, could not have been taken over by the others. A new character needed to be introduced to restore the balance to its original shape, which is why the character of Simon Wicks (Nick Berry) was introduced. This meant introducing the audience to a character and a story approximately a year before it had been originally intended.\n\nScarboro returned to the show briefly in December 1985 in a storyline that saw Mark's parents, Pauline (Wendy Richard) and Arthur (Bill Treacher) search for him in Southend. The storyline's intention was to help highlight the problems some parents face when their teenage children disappear from home. He returned again for brief stints in 1986 and 1987. His final appearance as Mark was on Christmas Day 1987. However, the actor was never to make a full-time return and Scarboro committed suicide in 1988.\n\nSubsequently, the role was recast in 1990 to the actor Todd Carty, renowned for his role as Tucker Jenkins in \"Grange Hill\". At this time, Mark returned to the series as a permanent character. The most notable storyline involving Mark was the revelation that he had contracted HIV. Mark discovered he was HIV positive in 1991, and informed his family of this on Christmas Day that year. There then followed a traumatic journey as he struggled first to come to terms with the news, then track down his previous partners to inform them that he was infected with the virus. The problems didn't end there, however, as Mark then had to battle with the fear and ignorance of those living around him including his parents. Many of Albert Square's residents initially rejected him when they found out that he was HIV positive. Mark married one of his ex-partners Gill (Susanna Dawson), who had also been infected with the virus but in her case it had progressed to AIDS, and she subsequently died the day after the wedding. \n\nThe episode in which Gill died (written by Debbie Cook and directed by Leonard Lewis) has been chosen by writer Colin Brake as one of the most memorable episodes of 1992. In his book, \"EastEnders: The First Ten Years\" Blake comments, \"Although in many ways the episode was sad and downbeat it was not without its positive aspects, as Mark talked to his sister about his own mortality.\" Susanna Dawson, the actress who played Gill, found the experience of playing a person living with, and dying from, AIDS so intense that she co-produced an educational video based on the subject for use in schools and wrote a book, \"The Gill and Mark Story\", to accompany it.\n\nMark became the first mainstream soap character to be diagnosed as HIV-positive. The storyline came after a government request to \"spread the word\". Mark lived with the condition for 13 years before dying of an AIDS related illness. The Terrence Higgins Trust worked with the production team for the duration of Mark's story. Despite all the public health campaigns concerning HIV transmission, the biggest peak in requests for testing in Britain was seen in January 1991 when Mark Fowler was diagnosed HIV-positive. Carty has commented: \"I feel that the storyline educated people at a time when there were lots of misconceptions about HIV and AIDS…My main concern was that they'd get it right and, overall, I think they did - because it showed someone living with HIV, as opposed to dying of it.\"\n\nThe storyline was widely applauded for the way it handled the plot and the following issues that the scriptwriters explored, from antiretroviral drugs, safe sex and prejudice. The storyline was so successful in raising awareness that a 1999 survey by the National AIDS Trust found teenagers got most of their information about HIV from the soap.\n\nThe character of Mark remained in the show for a further 13 years after his reintroduction, and featured in an array of storylines including two failed marriages, which were scripted to highlight the difficulties that can occur in a relationship when one partner has HIV and the other does not. Ultimately Mark overcame the stigma and he enjoyed several years of happy, healthy living before finally succumbing to an AIDS-related illness and dying in April 2004 off-screen. \"EastEnders\" executive producer Louise Berridge said Carty had made a \"fantastic contribution\" to the soap and Mark has been a \"pivotal figure\" on Albert Square, but the character had finally run its course.\n\nCampaigners have since suggested that Mark's HIV storyline could have been handled better in the latter years. Lisa Power, head of policy at the Terrence Higgins Trust, said \"in some ways the storyline was not reflective of what was happening at the time as the condition was more common among the gay community\". She also said \"he was perhaps killed off too early as advancements in drugs are helping people live for much longer... Saying that, one decent soap episode is worth a thousand leaflets in schools. That is why we would always go out of our way to help scriptwriters. TV and films can be very powerful.\"\n\nCarty had said that the late EastEnders star Wendy Richard was like a mother to him. \"When I was filming my goodbye scenes, those tears were real. Seeing Wendy break down was one of the most poignant moments. The whole day was so emotional - I had to hold it together and stay strong for Wendy\". Carty had also told the \"Daily Mirror\" that the pair had struck up a 20-year friendship after they were cast.\n\n"}
{"id": "2224595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2224595", "title": "Massai", "text": "Massai\n\nMassai (also known as: Massa, Massi, Masai, Wasse or Massey; c.1847-1906, 1911) was a member of the Mimbres /Mimbreños local group of the Chihenne band of the Chiricahua Apache. He was a warrior who escaped from a train that was sending the scouts and renegades to Florida to be held with Geronimo and Chihuahua.\n\nBorn to White Cloud and Little Star at Mescal Mountain, Arizona, near Globe. He later married a local Chiricahua and they had two children. \n\nMassai later met Geronimo, who was recruiting Apache to fight American settlers and soldiers. Massai and a Tonkawa named Gray Lizard agreed to join Geronimo, who instructed them to lay in supplies of arms, food, and ammunition. Other sources state that Massai also served the United States government on two separate occasions, once in 1880 and the other in 1885, as an Apache Scout. Upon traveling to meet Geronimo's forces, the two were informed that Geronimo had been arrested. Both men were arrested by Chiricahua Apache Scouts and disarmed. Massai was placed onto a prison train as a prisoner of war along with Gray Lizard, who voluntarily agreed to accompany Massai, together with the remaining Chiricahua Apache who had either been captured or had surrendered to the army. This included the Apache Scouts, who were now deemed expendable and undesirable. \n\nMassai and Gray Lizard later escaped from the prison train near Saint Louis, Missouri. The two men walked some 1,200 miles back to the Mescalero Apache tribal area, crossing the Pecos River, and Capitan Gap. Near Sierra Blanca, New Mexico, the two men encountered a group of Mescalero Apache. Several days later, the two parted at Three Rivers, never to see each other again. Gray Lizard departed for Mescal Mountain and the San Carlos Indian Reservation near present-day Globe, Arizona, while Massai stayed on the run, raiding along what is today the New Mexico-Arizona border, and periodically taking refuge across the border in Mexico. His name appeared in San Carlos Agency reports from 1887 to 1890. He later kidnapped and married (c.1887) a Mescalero Apache girl named Zan-a-go-li-che and took her home to his family at Mescal Mountain. Massai and Zanagoliche had six children together.\n\nMassai's later life and death are the subject of some dispute. One account states that in 1906, Massai, after contracting tuberculosis, took his wife and their children back to their home with the Mescaleros in New Mexico. Along the way he was killed by a posse, west of the town of San Marcial, New Mexico, between Socorro and Hot Springs, though no evidence of Massai's death was ever produced. Some believed the Apache Kid was actually the man who died that day so the area was later named the Apache Kid Wilderness.\n\nAnother account states that Massai escaped over the border to Mexico, eventually settling in the Sierra Madre mountains with a group of rebellious Chiricahuas who had refused to surrender with Geronimo. \n\nMassai was portrayed by Burt Lancaster in the 1954 film \"Apache\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21340078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21340078", "title": "Mavis Doering", "text": "Mavis Doering\n\nMavis Doering (1929–2007) was a Cherokee Nation basketmaker from Oklahoma.\n\nDoering was born in Hominy, Oklahoma and was the third generation of a family of basketmakers. She was mostly self-taught. Beginning in the 1970s, she researched weaving techniques from books in libraries and museums.\n\nDoering's baskets were of post-removal Cherokee basket patterns and materials, but with her own personal element such as painted elements and attached elements such as feathers and beads, baskets that honored legends, and baskets in the shape of clay pots. Most were double-walled.\n\nShe gathered her own materials and learned to make her own dyes from nut hulls, berries, and leaves, mostly obtained from her mother's allotment land near Tahlequah in Eastern Oklahoma. Basket materials she used included buckbrush, reed, honeysuckle runners, white oak splits, ash splits, rivercane, and cattail leaves. In addition to a wide range of natural dyes, Doering also experimented with brilliant aniline dyes.\n\nDoering exhibited her baskets widely, including at such venues as the Southern Plains Indian Museum, Coulter Bay Indian Art Museum, Wheelwright Museum of the American Indian, Fred Jones Jr. Museum of Art, Oklahoma Historical Society, the Kennedy Center in Washington DC, and the Smithsonian Institution Folklife Festival. In 1982 and 1983, she received majors commissions from the Oklahoma State Arts Council for over 50 baskets.\n\nMavis Doering taught several contemporary Cherokee basketmakers, including Peggy Brennan, how to weave double-walled baskets.\n"}
{"id": "1902835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902835", "title": "Max Elitcher", "text": "Max Elitcher\n\nMax Elitcher (1918–2010) was a prosecution witness in the Julius and Ethel Rosenberg trial in 1951.\n\nBecause of his close friendship with Morton Sobell and Julius Rosenberg, as well as his damaging testimony, Max Elitcher was the most injurious prosecution witness in the Rosenberg case. Elitcher and Sobell became friends while attending Stuyvesant High School together. The two men attended the City College of New York where they met Julius Rosenberg. Following graduation, where Elitcher received a degree in engineering, he and Sobell moved to Washington to become junior engineers at the Navy Bureau of Ordnance. The two remained close friends and even shared an apartment together. In 1948, Elitcher left government service to take a job at Reeves Instrument Corporation. Elitcher and his wife moved into a house in Queens. Their backyard neighbors were the Sobells.\n\nElitcher maintained that Julius Rosenberg had attempted to recruit him as a spy during the years 1944-1948. Although Elitcher shared many of Rosenberg's and Sobell's political beliefs, he claimed to have never passed secret information to either. Elitcher testified that he accompanied Sobell to Catherine Slip in New York, where Sobell passed film to Julius Rosenberg.\n\nAccording to the authors of Invitation to an Inquest (1983): \"At the trial, Elitcher had to be led frequently by Saypol as he told a story that was vague and improbable. He claimed that Rosenberg and also Sobell had on a number of occasions invited him to engage in espionage activities and that they had continued these requests sporadically over a four-year period - despite the fact that he never had turned over a single scrap of information to them.\" The New York Daily News reported: \"Elitcher left trial observers with the impression that his must have been a masterpiece of equivocation and temporizing, since the first pressure was put to him in 1944... He was still resisting suggestions from Sobell and Rosenberg, he asserted... in 1948.\" \n\nThe only evidence against Morton Sobell was Elitcher's story about the visit to see Julius Rosenberg in July 1948, when he was living in Knickerbocker Village. He described the \"35-millimeter film can\" that Sobell was carrying but he admitted that he did not know what, if anything, the can contained, nor had he actually seen Sobell deliver it to Rosenberg. Elitcher was unable to say if Sobell gave Rosenberg any information that was secret.\n\nDouglas Linder, \"A Trial Account\" (2001)\n\n"}
{"id": "8583582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8583582", "title": "Patrick Cotter O'Brien", "text": "Patrick Cotter O'Brien\n\nPatrick Cotter O'Brien (19 January 1760 – 8 September 1806) was the first of only seventeen people in medical history to stand at a verified height of eight feet (2.44 m) or more. O'Brien was born in Kinsale, County Cork, Ireland. His real name was Patrick Cotter and he adopted O'Brien as his stage name in the sideshow circus, claiming descent from the legendarily gigantic Brian Boru. He was also known as the \"Bristol Giant\" and the \"Irish Giant\". Another giant of this period, Charles Byrne, also claimed to be an O'Brien.\n\nIt is believed that he died from the effects of the disease gigantism.\n\nNo hearse could be found to accommodate his nine feet four inch casket encased in lead, and his remains were borne to the grave by relays of fourteen men. In his will, Cotter left £2,000 to his mother and a request that his body be entombed within twelve feet of solid rock (to prevent exhumation for scientific or medical research).\n\nIn 1972 his remains were examined and it was determined that, while alive, he stood approximately 8 feet 1 inch (246 cm) tall. This made him the tallest person ever at that time, a record that would be surpassed by the next 'eight-footer', John Rogan, who died almost a century later. Patrick Cotter's giant boots are on display in the Kinsale Museum.\n\nAn arm of Cotter's is currently preserved in the Medical Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17601986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17601986", "title": "Peironet", "text": "Peironet\n\nPeironet or Peyronet was a Catalan troubadour and jongleur (\"juglar\" in contemporary records). \"Peironet\" is a diminutive of the Occitan name \"Peire\", meaning Peter. He might be the same person as Pere Salvatge.\n\nHe was travelling with the entourage of the \"infante\" Peter, the heir to James I of Aragon, in October 1268 at Sant Celoni. He composed a \"tenso\" with the \"infante\" discussing the war with the County of Urgell that Peter had waged from September to December that year. Peironet and another jongleur who does not participate in the poetic exchange, Arnaut \"tritxador\", were apparently carrying a message to the \"infante\" about the status of his father the king. In the \"tenso\" Peironet talks about \"armes i amors\", war and love, the two favourite themes of the troubadours. The song, the incipit of which is \"Can vey En Peyronet ploran\" (\"When Sir Peironet came crying\"), consists of two stanzas by the heir and a two-stanza response from the messenger.\n\n"}
{"id": "23185861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23185861", "title": "Royal Standard of Thailand", "text": "Royal Standard of Thailand\n\nThe Royal Standard of Thailand ( \"Thong Maharat\") is the official flag of the King of Thailand. The standard was adopted in its present form in 1910 under King Vajiravudh (Rama VI), superseding the first Royal Standard created by King Mongkut in 1855. In 1979, the designs were codified by law; specifically in Article 2 of the Flag Act of 1979 (พระราชบัญญัติธง พ.ศ. ๒๕๒๒), which also regulated Thailand's other flags. The standard is currently used by King Maha Vajiralongkorn, also known as Rama X, since 2016.\n\nThe Royal Standard consists of a bright yellow square with a red Royal Garuda at the center. The mythical Hindu and Buddhist beast: the Garuda is the national emblem of Thailand and the official symbol or 'arms' of the King of Thailand. The Garuda has been the symbol of the monarchy since the time of the Kingdom of Ayutthaya. Readopted in 1910, King Vajiravudh decided to replace all of the Royal Standards (for the King and other members of the Royal Family) to feature the Garuda.\n\nThe standards are usually hoisted at the King's palace of residence, sea or land vehicles and as an emblem on the side of the royal aircraft. The standard is also used on ceremonial occasions and official business by the King. The use of these standards are reserved exclusively to the monarchy and are not commonly seen. Unlike the King's personal flag which are commonly seen all over Thailand, usually flying alongside the National flag.\n\nThe Law also adopted flags for other members of the Royal Family as well as the Regent of Thailand.\n\nKing Mongkut (Rama IV) felt the need to create a Royal standard to distinguish his royal barge from other vessels during his many travels around the Kingdom and to fly above the Grand Palace in Bangkok when he is in residence. In 1855 a Royal Standard was created called the 'Thong Chom Klao' (ธงจอมเกล้า). \n\nThe standard featured a red rectangular flag with a smaller dark blue rectangle inside. Within the dark blue rectangle depicts the Great Crown of Victory on a stand flanked by two seven-tiered Royal Umbrellas. The Crown itself is derived from the King's personal seal, which in itself is a canting of both his given name and ceremonial name: Mongkut (มงกุฎ) and Chom Klao (จอมเกล้า) both meaning 'Crown' in Thai. The crown and the umbrellas are situated on a golden platform. \n\nHowever the sight of an empty flagpole when the King was not in residence at the palace was considered inauspicious, therefore a second flag was ordered to be hoisted during the King's absence. This Flag is called the 'Thong Airapot' (ธงไอยราพต), the rectangular red flag depicts a mythical three-headed white elephant (Airavata) in full regalia standing on a golden base with a golden pavilion on its back. Within the pavilion is the Thai symbol for Aum or Unalom. The elephant is then flanked on two sides are two seven-tiered Royal Umbrellas.\n\nIn 1891, King Chulalongkorn (Rama V) decided to promulgate a new law to reform the Royal Standard and create for the first time ranks flags for members of the Royal Family. The Royal Standard was changed by adding the new Arms of Dominion, which is a golden shield divided into three parts. The first in yellow depicts a three-headed mythical elephant representing Siam, the second quarter in red depicts a single white elephant for Laos (Lan Xang) and the third quarter in pink depicts two crossed Krisses for the Malay suzerainty (Siam was later forced to relinquish these territories by the French and British, respectively). Inside the crown the symbol for the Chakri Dynasty is added; it depicts an intertwined Chakra and Trisula. The flag ratio is 5:6 The name of the Royal Standard was then changed to 'Thong Boromrajathawat Maha Siaminthra' (ธงบรมราชธวัชมหาสยามินทร์), A few years later in 1897 the name was permanently changed to 'Thong Maharaj'. \n\nThe King retained the second colours by replacing the Unalom with his own Royal cypher (จ ป ร, derive from \"จุฬาลงกรณ์ ปรมราชาธิราช\": Chulalongkorn Paramarajadhiraja; equivalent to Chulalongkorn Rex), which in turn is topped by the Royal Coronet or Phra Kiao (พระเกี้ยว). The name of this flag was also changed to the 'Thong Chudhathipathai' (ธงจุฑาธิปไตย).\n\nIn 1910 King Vajiravudh replaced the Royal Standard and Royal rank flags to mirror the change of the National emblem from the Coat of Arms of Siam to the Royal Garuda. These flags are retained and in use to this day. Six years later he also redesigned the national flag and naval ensigns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "422167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422167", "title": "Rudolf Nebel", "text": "Rudolf Nebel\n\nRudolf Nebel (21 March 1894 – 18 September 1978) was a spaceflight advocate active in Germany's amateur rocket group, the \"Verein für Raumschiffahrt\" (VfR – \"Spaceflight Society\") in the 1930s and in rebuilding German rocketry following World War II.\n\nNebel was born in Weißenburg. During the First World War he served in the \"Luftstreitkräfte\" as a fighter pilot with Jagdstaffel 5, pioneering the use of unguided air-launched signal rockets as offensive armament from a German fighter aircraft in the Luftstreitkräfte while flying the Halberstadt D.II in early 1916, even forcing down two British aircraft with the improvised rocket armament. Following the war, the former \"Leutnant\" Nebel earned a degree in engineering.\n\nHe was an early member of the VfR and assisted with Hermann Oberth's failed publicity stunt on behalf of the group to launch a rocket at the premiere of Fritz Lang's film \"Frau im Mond\" (\"Woman in the Moon\"). Despite this failure, Nebel continued to seek sponsorship from the Reichswehr as well as individuals as diverse as Adolf Hitler and Albert Einstein.\n\nNebel acted very much as the group's spokesperson, organising the donation of materials from various local businesses, and negotiating with the Berlin municipal council for the use of a disused ammunition dump for the VfR's launch site or \"Raketenflugplatz\". He later talked the Magdeburg council into funding the launch of a rocket with a human passenger on board, a scheme that never materialised.\n\nHis right-wing politics and affiliation with the paramilitary veterans' organization Stahlhelm sat easily with his promotion of the possible military uses of rockets. Despite this, he had a difficult relationship with \nKarl Becker of the Army Weapons Office. Becker distrusted Nebel's showmanship and publicity seeking and by May 1931 had temporarily cut off official contact with him. In April 1932, Becker accepted a proposal from Nebel for army funding of a rocket launch on the condition that certain criteria were met. The launch on 22 June of that year was a failure and Nebel and his crew received no payment for the attempt. When Becker offered to bring the team into a strictly controlled army rocketry project, Nebel refused, saying that he and his colleagues had invented the technology and that the army would \"choke us with their red tape\". Conversely, Wernher von Braun accepted the offer.\n\nVon Braun later tried again during the war to have him join, but by now the SS regarded Nebel as untrustworthy and had von Braun cease his attempts.\n\nAfter World War II, Nebel was quick to encourage Germany to recommence rocket research. He participated in the first meetings of the International Astronautical Federation and held a public lecture in Cuxhaven in 1951 that set in motion a chain of events that led to the old military base being re-opened for rocket launching until the mid-1960s.\n\nHe died in Düsseldorf.\n\nNebel, whose name means \"fog\" in German, is often incorrectly named as the inventor of the \"Nebelwerfer\" (\"fog launcher\") system of rocket artillery used by the \"Wehrmacht\" (German army) in World War II. This secret weapon was given its name as a disinformation strategy designed to lead spies into thinking that it was merely a device for creating a smoke screen. He has also frequently been mistaken as the one who popularized the name Nebel (referring to 'nerd' and 'rebel') which has recently been attributed to Long John Nebel.\n"}
{"id": "8445237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8445237", "title": "Sultan Kösen", "text": "Sultan Kösen\n\nSultan Kösen (born 10 December 1982) is a Turkish-Kurdish farmer who holds the Guinness World Record for tallest living male at . His growth resulted from the condition acromegaly, caused by a tumour affecting his pituitary gland. His stature is such that he uses crutches in order to walk.\n\nIn 2009, Kösen, a Kurd, lived with his parents, three brothers and sister, who are all of normal height. He was unable to complete his education because of his height, so instead worked part-time as a farmer. He describes the advantages of being tall as seeing a great distance and being able to help his family with domestic tasks such as changing light bulbs and hanging curtains. He lists disadvantages as not being able to find clothes legs measuring and sleeve length measuring or shoes that fit or finding it difficult to fit into an average-sized car.\n\nStarting in 2010, Kösen received Gamma Knife treatment for his pituitary tumour at the University of Virginia Medical School and was provided with medication to control his excessive levels of growth hormone. It was confirmed in March 2012 that the treatment had been effective in halting Kösen's growth.\n\nIn October 2013, Kösen married Syrian-born Merve Dibo, who is ten years younger than him In an interview he said that his biggest problem with his wife is communication. He said he spoke Kurdish and Turkish but his wife spoke only Arabic.\n\nOn 13 November 2014, as part of Guinness World Records Day, Kösen met, for the first time, the world's shortest living man, Chandra Bahadur Dangi, at an event in London.\n\nIn 2014 Kösen joined the Magic Circus of Samoa and participated in various shows around the world. He had been personally approached by the director of the circus, Bruno Loyale, who convinced him to join the circus.\n\nOn 25 August 2009 Kösen's standing height was recorded at in his home country by \"Guinness World Records\", overtaking former world record holder Bao Xishun who stands tall. Kösen also holds the current Guinness record for the largest hands at , and the second largest feet at (left foot) and (right foot).\n\nOn 25 August 2010, according to the University of Virginia, a height of up to had been confirmed by doctors and stated it was possible this was Kösen's actual height, artificially lowered by scoliosis and bad posture.\n\nOn 9 February 2011 Kösen was measured by \"Guinness World Records\" at and they also remeasured his hands at which broke his previous record.\n\n"}
{"id": "47722210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47722210", "title": "T. Rafael Cimino", "text": "T. Rafael Cimino\n\nTodd Rafael Cimino (born June 4, 1963) is an American novelist and screenwriter with credits in both film and television. He was born in Wayne, New Jersey, and grew up in the Florida Keys. He is currently a principal writer with Akula Films and a consulting producer with HBO.\n\nCimino's work in film and television includes:\n\nCimino authored or co-authored multiple books, including:\n\nWhile a registered Independent, Cimino sides with progressive issues. He has served as an executive member of the American Civil Liberties Union, a supporting member of the Southern Poverty Law Center and a Professional Member of the National Lawyer's Guild. In 2008, Cimino worked with the campaign to elect Barack Obama, President of the United States, serving as a senior member and advisor to the then candidate's committee for Healthcare Policy Development. The committee was chaired by Zeke Emanuel, architect of the Affordable Care Act, also known as \"Obamacare.\"\n\nIn 2012 Cimino joined the HBO production of the political round table, \"Real Time with Bill Maher.\" Today he's a frequent political contributor to CNN.\n\nCimino was born in Wayne, New Jersey, the son of Peter Cimino, a general practice physician. At age six his family moved to Key Largo in the Florida Keys. He attended Key Largo Elementary School and the Island Christian School until graduation from high school in 1981. He would go on to attend the University of Florida, Florida Atlantic University and Georgetown University Law School.\n\nWhile filming \"Black Dahlia\" in Sofia Bulgaria, he was introduced to Bulgarian National Ballet Dancer, Svetlina Kiryakova by Bulgarian composer Magga Aliev. The two were married in 2010.\n\nCimino has been open about growing up and living with Asperger syndrome.\n\nCimino is the nephew of the late Writer/ Director Michael Cimino.\n"}
{"id": "1812329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812329", "title": "The Atlantic Paranormal Society", "text": "The Atlantic Paranormal Society\n\nThe Atlantic Paranormal Society (TAPS) is an organization that investigates reported paranormal activity. Based in Warwick, Rhode Island, TAPS was founded in 1990 by Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson. In 2004, the organization itself became the subject of \"Ghost Hunters\", a popular weekly American paranormal reality television series on the Syfy channel. The show ran for eleven seasons on Syfy in the US. The show aired in the UK nine months after the US premier on \"Living It\".\n\nIn 1990, Hawes began the \"Rhode Island Paranormal Society\", after having a personal experience with spirits. After RIPS began investigating cases throughout the New England area, Jason met up with Grant Wilson in 1995 and renamed it \"The Atlantic Paranormal Society.\" Wilson had also had a personal experience. Neither man talks about it in public. The group was originally run out of Jason's basement, and at that time consisted only of Jason and Grant. They pioneered investigative techniques that many other paranormal investigators use. In 2003 they were approached by Pilgrim Films and taped ten episodes of \"Ghost Hunters\" for the Sci Fi (now SyFy) channel.\n\nStarting in 2007, Jason and Grant began releasing a series of books related to their work and experiences in the paranormal as well as several fiction books.\n\nTAPS publishes a bi-monthly publication called \"TAPS Paramagazine\" (also known as \"TAPS Para Mag\"), which features articles written by group members and information pertaining to the paranormal. Hawes stated in an interview on the skeptical podcast 'Audiomartini' that the magazine is marketed primarily in an attempt to \"fund the TAPS operation.\" The magazine itself states that \"TAPS Para Magazine is a financial sponsor of The Atlantic Paranormal Society.\" The average issue is approximately 39 pages in length and in 2006 was marketed by offering a behind-the-scenes DVD of the show to new subscribers.\n\nIn April 2007, Beyond Reality Radio, a radio talk show that featured TAPS co-founders and \"Ghost Hunters\" stars Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson, began broadcasting on select radio stations in the New England area. Airing Saturday nights from 7-10 PM, Jason and Grant interviewed guests about the Paranormal and allowed listeners to call in to contribute to the discussion. The show was produced by Amy Bruni, with help from Dave Gardiner. During the show listeners could visit the official TAPS website and chat about the show or any other subjects in a moderated chat room. The show is currently on hiatus and no date has been given for its return.\n\nIn July 2006 TAPS began releasing podcasts, \"TAPS Para-Radio\", featuring Hawes and Wilson, on a sporadic basis.\n\nOn December 1, 2007, TAPS released a video game in conjunction with Star Mountain Studios called \"Apparitions: Red Reef Inn\". Available online for PC & Mac, TAPS co-founder Grant Wilson claims that this game is just the start of larger efforts in the interactive media space from TAPS in the future. In January 2010 TAPS and Star Mountain Studios released a hidden object game entitled \"Apparitions: Kotsmine Hills\".\n\nTAPS sends a group of 3 to 8 members to perform an 8- to 16-hour investigation, covering multiple nights, employing a number of infrared and digital video cameras, thermal camera devices, EMF (electromagnetic field) detectors, digital thermometers and other equipment throughout the site in question. While at a site, the members of the team often find common explanations for the claims of the occupants. In conclusion, the team will report on its findings, and express their opinion that a site is \"haunted\" or \"not haunted.\" They distinguish themselves from other paranormal groups by going into a case by claiming they wish to disprove a haunting. TAPS does not charge their clients for the investigations or consulting.\n\nAccording to investigator Benjamin Radford most ghost hunting groups including TAPS make many methodological mistakes. \"After watching episodes of \"Ghost Hunters\" and other similar programs, it quickly becomes clear to anyone with a background in science that the methods used are both illogical and unscientific\". Anyone can be a ghost investigator, \"failing to consider alternative explanations for anomalous ... phenomena\", considering emotions and feelings as \"evidence of ghostly encounters\". \"Improper and unscientific investigation methods\" for example \"using unproven tools and equipment\", \"sampling errors\", \"ineffectively using recording devices\" and \"focusing on the history of the location...and not the phenomena\". In his article for \"Skeptical Inquirer\" Radford concludes that ghost hunters should care about doing a truly scientific investigation: \"I believe that if ghosts exist, they are important and deserve to be taken seriously. Most of the efforts to investigate ghosts so far have been badly flawed and unscientific --- and, not surprisingly, fruitless.\"\n\nIn 2006, a website called \"SAPS\" (\"Skeptical Analysis of the Paranormal Society\") conducted an investigation into the status and legitimacy of the TAPS non-profit status. In several places on their website it stated that they were non-profit and did investigations free of charge, however did accept donations and held a raffle to win various branded merchandise. The site claimed that repeated attempts to clarify the subject was met with negative responses. It broadened its investigation by searching for its status both federally and at the state level and found no evidence that they were a registered non-profit organization. They also found that the raffle was in violation of the state's gambling laws as it allowed those that could be under the age of 18 to participate.\n\nIn February 2007, TAPS issued a statement regarding the status. It stated that they, \"...by no means meant to give the appearance that we had non-profit status. By this, we meant that we do not make any profit at all from investigating. We couldn't simply say 'TAPS makes no money whatsoever' because TAPS does gather meager funds from the occasional donation and membership dues. The money that comes in does NOT come from the client in direct relation to a case, nor does it go into anyone's pocket. So, therefore we used the term non-profit.\"\n\nThey have since changed non-profit to \"free volunteer organization\" to clear up any misconceptions and have been working on filing for the appropriate status but claim that it is very difficult for a paranormal group to do in Rhode Island.\n\nMembers of TAPS can be found worldwide. TAPS has also made honorary members of some celebrities who have participated in investigations filmed for the \"Ghost Hunters\" TV series, several of whom, such as Tapping and The Miz, appear in programming produced by the show's parent network, Syfy. They include the following people.\n\nMany paranormal investigation groups network and assist similar member groups across the nation and around the world. TAPS invites paranormal research organizations into its own network, and may refer cases to them. These organizations are part of a network called the TAPS Family. Member organizations put a \"TAPS Family Member\" banner on their websites, which link to The Atlantic Paranormal Society's web page. A list of member organizations is available at the TAPS Family Website.\n\n"}
{"id": "430503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430503", "title": "Werner Koch", "text": "Werner Koch\n\nWerner Koch (born July 11, 1961) is a German free software developer. He is best known as the principal author of the GNU Privacy Guard (GnuPG or GPG). He was also Head of Office and German Vice-Chancellor of the Free Software Foundation Europe. He is the winner of Award for the Advancement of Free Software in 2015 for founding GnuPG.\n\nJournalists and security professionals rely on GnuPG, and Edward Snowden used it to evade monitoring whilst he leaked classified information from the U.S. National Security Agency.\n\nKoch lives in Erkrath, near Düsseldorf, Germany. He began writing GNU Privacy Guard in 1997, inspired by attending a talk by Richard Stallman who made a call for someone to write a replacement for Phil Zimmermann's Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) which was subject to U.S. export restrictions. The first release of GNU Privacy Guard was in 1999 and it went on to become the basis for most of the popular email encryption programs: GPGTools, Enigmail, and Koch's own Gpg4win, the primary free encryption program for Microsoft Windows.\n\nIn 1999 Koch, via the German Unix User Group which he served on the board of, received a grant of 318,000 marks (about $170,000 US) from the German Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology to make GPG compatible with Microsoft Windows. In 2005 he received a contract from the German government to support the development of S/MIME.\n\nJournalists and security professionals rely on GnuPG, and Edward Snowden used it to evade monitoring whilst he leaked classified information from the U.S. National Security Agency. Despite GnuPG's popularity, Koch has struggled to survive financially, earning about $25,000 US per year since 2001 and thus considered abandoning the project and taking a better paying programming job. However, given Snowden's leaked documents showed the extent of NSA surveillance, Koch continued. In 2014 he held a funding drive and in response received $137,000 US in donations from the public, and Facebook and Stripe each pledged to annually donate $50,000 US to GPG development. Unrelated, in 2015 Koch was also awarded a one-time grant of $60,000 US from the Linux Foundation's Core Infrastructure Initiative.\n"}
