{"id": "37785040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37785040", "title": "Abandonment rate", "text": "Abandonment rate\n\nIn marketing, abandonment rate is a term associated with the use of virtual shopping carts. Also known as \"shopping cart abandonment\". Although shoppers in brick and mortar stores rarely abandon their carts, abandonment of virtual shopping carts is quite common. Marketers can count how many of the shopping carts used in a specified period result in completed sales versus how many are abandoned. The abandonment rate is the ratio of the number of abandoned shopping carts to the number of initiated transactions or to the number of completed transactions. The typical shopping cart abandonment rate for online retailers varies between 60% and 80%, with an average of 67.91%.\n\nThere are various reasons behind the high cart abandonment rate. In general, these reasons can be categorized as different risks that affect the user's decision to ultimately complete the purchase. Below are reasons that were identified in an empirical study.\n\nAnother problem is that people have too many passwords. A MasterCard and University of Oxford study in 2017 showed about a third of purchases were not made because the person could not remember a password.\n\nAs a result, there are some implications that can be applied to online retails.\n\nAbandonment rate as a marketing metric which helps marketers to understand website user behavior. Specifically, abandonment rate is defined as \"the percentage of shopping carts that are abandoned\" prior to the completion of the purchase. This information is generally not used on a facility reservation report.\n\nAs an example, an online comics retailer found that of the 25,000 customers who loaded items into their electronic baskets, only 5,000 actually purchased:\n"}
{"id": "146638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146638", "title": "Ayrton Senna", "text": "Ayrton Senna\n\nAyrton Senna da Silva (; 21 March 1960 – 1 May 1994) was a Brazilian racing driver who won three Formula One world championships for McLaren in 1988, 1990 and 1991, and is widely regarded as one of the greatest Formula One drivers of all time. He died in an accident while leading the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix for Williams.\n\nSenna began his motorsport career in karting, moved up to open-wheel racing in 1981, and won the 1983 British Formula Three Championship. He made his Formula One debut with Toleman-Hart in 1984, before moving to Lotus-Renault the following year and winning six Grands Prix over the next three seasons. In 1988, he joined Frenchman Alain Prost at McLaren-Honda. Between them, they won all but one of the 16 Grands Prix that year, and Senna claimed his first World Championship. Prost claimed the championship in 1989, and Senna his second and third championships in 1990 and 1991. In 1992, the Williams-Renault combination began to dominate Formula One. Senna nonetheless managed to finish the 1993 season as runner-up, winning five races and negotiating a move to Williams in 1994.\n\nSenna has often been voted as the best and most influential Formula One driver of all time in various motorsport polls. He was recognised for his qualifying speed over one lap, and from 1989 until 2006 he held the record for most pole positions. He was also acclaimed for his wet weather performances, such as the 1984 Monaco Grand Prix, the 1985 Portuguese Grand Prix, and the 1993 European Grand Prix. He holds a record six victories at the Monaco Grand Prix, and is the fifth-most successful driver of all time in terms of race wins. Senna courted controversy throughout his career, particularly during his turbulent rivalry with Prost. In the Japanese Grands Prix of 1989 and 1990, each of which decided the championship of that year, collisions between Senna and Prost determined the eventual winner.\n\nSenna was born in the Pro-Matre Maternity Hospital of Santana, a neighbourhood of São Paulo. The middle child of wealthy Brazilian landowner and factory owner Milton da Silva and his wife Neide Senna da Silva, he had an older sister, Viviane and a younger brother, Leonardo. He was left-handed.\n\nThe house where Senna spent the first four years of his life belonged to Neide's father, João Senna. It was located on the corner of Avenida Aviador Guilherme with Avenida Gil Santos Dumont, less than 100 meters from Campo de Marte, a large area where they operated the Aeronautics Material park and an airport. Senna was highly athletic, excelling in gymnastics and other sports, and developed an interest in cars and motor racing at the age of four. He also suffered from poor motor coordination and had trouble climbing stairways by the age of three. An electroencephalogram (EEG) found that Senna was not suffering from any problems. His parents gave Senna the nickname \"Beco\". At the age of seven, Senna first learned to drive a Jeep around his family's farm and gained the advantage of changing gears without the use of a clutch.\n\nSenna attended Colegio Rio Branco in the São Paulo neighbourhood of Higienópolis and graduated in 1977 with a grade 5 in physics along with other grades in mathematics, chemistry, and English. He later enrolled in a college that specialised in business administration, but dropped out after three months. Overall, his grades amounted up to 68%.\nSenna's first kart was built by his father using a small 1-HP lawnmower engine. Senna started racing at Interlagos and entered a karting competition at the age of 13. He started his first race on pole position, facing rivals who were some years older than him; despite this, he managed to lead most of the race before retiring after colliding with a rival. His father supported his son and Lucio Pascal Gascon soon managed the developing talent.\n\nSenna went on to win the South American Kart Championship in 1977. He contested the Karting World Championship each year from 1978 to 1982, finishing runner-up in 1979 and 1980. In 1978, he was the teammate of Terry Fullerton, from whom Senna later felt was the rival he got the most satisfaction racing against also because of the lack of money and politics at that level.\n\nIn 1981, Senna moved to England to begin single-seater racing, winning the RAC and Townsend-Thoreson Formula Ford 1600 Championships that year with the Van Diemen team.\nDespite this, Senna initially did not believe he would continue in motorsport. At the end of that season, under pressure from his parents to take up a role in the family business, Senna announced his retirement from Formula Ford and returned to Brazil. Before leaving England, however, Senna was offered a drive with a Formula Ford 2000 team for £10,000. Back in Brazil, he decided to take this offer and returned to live in England. As da Silva is the most common Brazilian surname, he instead adopted his mother's maiden name, Senna. Senna went on to win the 1982 British and European Formula Ford 2000 championships. For that season, Senna arrived with sponsorship from Banerj and Pool.\n\nIn 1983, Senna drove in the British Formula Three Championship for the West Surrey Racing team. He dominated the first half of the season until Martin Brundle, driving a similar car for Eddie Jordan Racing, closed the gap in the second part of the championship. Senna won the title at the final round after a closely fought and, at times, acrimonious battle with the Briton. In November that year, Senna also triumphed at the inaugural Macau Formula 3 Grand Prix with Teddy Yip's Toyota-powered Theodore Racing Team.\n\nIn 1983, Senna tested for Formula One teams Williams, McLaren, Brabham, and Toleman. Peter Warr of Lotus, Ron Dennis of McLaren, and Bernie Ecclestone of Brabham made offers for testing in 1984 and presented long-term contracts that tied Senna to driving later on. During his test for Williams at the 3.149-km (1.957-mi) Donington Park circuit, Senna completed 40 laps and was quicker than the other drivers, including Williams's reigning World Champion Keke Rosberg.\nNeither Williams nor McLaren had a vacancy for the 1984 season. Both Williams boss Frank Williams and McLaren boss Ron Dennis noted that Senna insisted that he got to run their cars before anyone else (other than their regular drivers such as Rosberg) so that he would have the best chance of a good showing by having a fresh car.\n\nPeter Warr actually wanted to replace Nigel Mansell with Senna at Lotus, but their British-based title sponsor, Imperial Tobacco (John Player & Sons), wanted a British driver. Senna, however, was determined to drive that season and certainly on his own terms. Senna's test for Brabham occurred at Circuit Paul Ricard in November 1983, Senna impressed the Brabham team and was linked to their second seat. However, the team's main sponsor, Italian dairy company Parmalat, wanted an Italian driver. Brabham's second car was eventually shared by brothers Teo and Corrado Fabi, while Piquet convinced Ecclestone to sign his friend Roberto Moreno as the test driver.\nConsequently, he joined Toleman, a relatively new team, using less competitive Pirelli tyres.\nVenezuelan Johnny Cecotto, a former Grand Prix motorcycle racing world champion, was his teammate.\nDuring 1984, Senna hired Nuno Cobra to assess his physical condition. Senna had been worried about his condition due to low weight.\n\nSenna made his debut at the 1984 Brazilian Grand Prix in Rio de Janeiro, where he qualified 17th, but had the dubious honour of being the first retirement of the season when the Hart 415T engine blew its turbo on lap 8. He scored his first World Championship point in his second race at the South African Grand Prix at Kyalami with severe muscle spasms, replicating that result two weeks later at the Belgian Grand Prix.\n\nA combination of tyre issues and a fuel-pressure problem resulted in his failure to qualify for the San Marino Grand Prix, the only time this happened during his career. Toleman decided not to run both cars during Friday qualifying at Imola due to a dispute with tyre supplier Pirelli (Toleman were in the process of switching from Pirelli to Michelin). Senna then suffered a fuel-pressure problem in the wet Saturday session at Tosa (the furthest point on the circuit from the pits) and did not have enough time for it to be fixed to allow him to make the grid. Senna's best result of the season came at the Monaco Grand Prix, the first wet-weather race of the season. Qualifying 13th on the grid, he made steady progress in climbing through the field, passing Niki Lauda for second on lap 19. He quickly began to cut the gap to race leader Alain Prost, but before he could attack Prost, the race was stopped on lap 31 for safety reasons, as the rain had grown even heavier. At the time the race was stopped, Senna was catching Prost by about 4 seconds per lap (while the Tyrrell-Ford of Stefan Bellof was catching both at the same rate, although he was later disqualified due to weight restrictions broken by Tyrrell).\n\nRenowned throughout his career for his capacity to provide very specific technical details about the performance of his cars and track conditions long before the advent of telemetry, this characteristic led Senna's first F1 race engineer, Pat Symonds, to regard the US Grand Prix in Dallas as the initial highlight of Senna's debut season, instead of the more popular Monaco, where Senna and Toleman scored their first podium finish. This is by reference to the following recollection given by Symonds in an interview in 2014, to mark the 20th anniversary of Senna's death:The car was reasonably competitive there, so we expected to have a good race but Ayrton spun early in the race. He then found his way back through the field in a quite effective way and we were looking for a pretty good finish but then he hit the wall, damaged the rear wheel and the driveshaft and retired, which was a real shame. The real significance of that was that when he came back to the pits he told me what happened and said \"I'm sure that the wall moved!\" and even though I've heard every excuse every driver has ever made, I certainly hadn't heard of that one! But Ayrton being Ayrton, with his incredible belief in himself, the absolute conviction, he then talked me into going with him, after the race, to have a look at the place where he had crashed. And he was absolutely right, which was the amazing thing! Dallas being a street circuit the track was surrounded by concrete blocks and what had happened – we could see it from the tyre marks – was that someone had hit at the far end of the concrete block and that made it swivel slightly, so that the leading edge of the block was standing out by a few millimetres. And he was driving with such precision that those few millimetres were the difference between hitting the wall and not hitting the wall. While I had been, at first, annoyed that we had retired from the race through a driver error, when I saw what had happened, when I saw how he had been driving, that increased my respect for the guy by quite a lot.\nThat season, Senna took two more podium finishes—third at the British and Portuguese Grands Prix—and placed 9th in the Drivers' Championship with 13 points overall. He did not take part in the Italian Grand Prix after he was suspended by Toleman for being in breach of his contract by signing for Lotus for 1985 without informing the Toleman team first. Senna became the first driver Lotus had signed not personally chosen by team founder Colin Chapman, who had died in 1982.\n\nSenna also raced in two high-profile non-Formula One races in 1984: the ADAC 1000-km Nürburgring where, alongside Henri Pescarolo and Stefan Johansson, he co-drove a Joest Racing Porsche 956 to finish 8th, as well as an exhibition race to celebrate the opening of the new Nürburgring before the European Grand Prix. Notably, this race involved several past and present Formula 1 drivers, including Stirling Moss and past World Champions Jack Brabham, Denny Hulme and Alan Jones, driving identical Mercedes 190E 2.3–16 sports cars. Alain Prost started from pole position, but Senna took the lead in the first corner of the first lap, winning ahead of Niki Lauda and Carlos Reutemann. After the race, Senna was quoted as saying, \"Now I know I can do it.\" Senna was a last-minute inclusion in the Mercedes race, taking over from Emerson Fittipaldi.\n\n\nSenna was partnered in his first year at Lotus-Renault by Italian driver Elio de Angelis. At the second round of the season, the Portuguese Grand Prix, Senna took the first pole position of his Formula 1 career. He converted it into his first victory in the race, which was held in very wet conditions, winning by over a minute from Michele Alboreto and lapping everyone up to and including 3rd placed Patrick Tambay. The race was the first 'Grand Slam' of Senna's career, as he also set the fastest lap of the race.\n\nHe would not finish in the points again until coming second at the Austrian Grand Prix, despite taking pole three more times in the intervening period. (His determination to take pole at the Monaco Grand Prix had infuriated Alboreto and Niki Lauda; Senna had set a fast time early and was accused of deliberately baulking the other drivers by running more laps than necessary, a charge he rejected, though the accusations would continue in Canada when drivers accused him of running on the racing line when on his slow down lap forcing others on qualifiers to move off line and lose time). Two more podiums followed in the Netherlands and Italy, before Senna added his second victory, again in wet conditions, at the Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps in Belgium. Senna's relationship with De Angelis soured over the season, as both drivers demanded top driver status within Lotus and, after spending six years at the team, De Angelis departed for Brabham at the end of the year, convinced that Lotus were becoming focused around the Brazilian. Senna and De Angelis finished the season 4th and 5th respectively in the driver rankings, separated by five points in the quick but unreliable 97T. In terms of qualifying, however, Senna had begun to establish himself as the quickest in the field: his tally of seven poles that season was far more than that of any of the other drivers (Renault's V6 qualifying engines were reported to be producing over ).\n\n\nDe Angelis was replaced at Lotus by Scotland's Johnny Dumfries after Senna vetoed Derek Warwick from joining the team, saying that Lotus could not run competitive cars for two top drivers at the same time. Senna allegedly pushed for his former flatmate and fellow Brazilian Maurício Gugelmin to join the team as a pure number two driver, but the team's major sponsor John Player & Sons (JPS) insisted on a British driver which led to the signing of Dumfries. Senna later admitted \"It was bad, bad. Until then I had a good relationship with Derek.\" Senna started the season well, coming second in Brazil behind the Williams-Honda of Nelson Piquet, and winning the Spanish Grand Prix by just 0.014s from Piquet's teammate Nigel Mansell in one of the closest finishes in Formula One history to find himself leading the World Championship after two races. However, poor reliability, particularly in the second half of the season, saw him drift behind the Williams pairing of Mansell and Piquet, as well as defending and eventual champion, Alain Prost. Nonetheless, Senna was once more the top qualifier with eight poles, with a further six podium finishes included another win at the Detroit Grand Prix, thus finishing the season fourth in the driver's standings again, with a total of 55 points.\n\nAfter winning the Detroit Grand Prix – which took place one day after Brazil was eliminated from the 1986 FIFA World Cup – Senna asked a trackside supporter for the Brazilian flag and he drove one lap waving it. Thereafter, he repeated this ritual every time he won a race. Senna also had a brief foray into rallying where he tried out a Vauxhall Nova, a MG Metro 6R4, a Ford Sierra RS Cosworth and a Ford Escort on a stretch of land closed to the public.\n\n\nTeam Lotus had a new engine deal in 1987, running the same turbocharged Honda V6 engines as Williams had used to win the previous year's Constructors' Championship, and with them came a new teammate, 34-year-old Japanese driver, Satoru Nakajima. The team guaranteed Senna contractually preferential treatment over Nakajima in the allocation of equipment. Senna started the season with mixed fortunes: a podium at the San Marino Grand Prix was tempered by controversy at the following race at Spa-Francorchamps, where he collided with Mansell, and afterward in the pits an angered Englishman grabbed Senna by the throat and had to be restrained by Lotus mechanics. Senna then won two races in a row, which helped him take the lead in the World Championship: the ensuing Monaco Grand Prix (the first of his record six victories at the Principality) and the Detroit Grand Prix, his second victory in two years at the Michigan street circuit and the first ever for an active suspension F1 car. As the championship wore on however, it became evident that the Williams cars had the advantage over the rest of the field, the gap between the Honda-engined teams made most obvious at the British Grand Prix, where Mansell and Piquet lapped the Lotuses of Senna and Nakajima who finished 3rd and 4th respectively. Senna became dissatisfied with his chances at Lotus and at Monza it was announced that he would be joining McLaren for 1988. Senna finished the season strongly, coming second in the final two races in Japan and Australia, however post-race scrutineering at the final race found the brake ducts of his Lotus to be wider than permitted by the rules and he was disqualified, bringing his last and most successful season with Lotus to a sour end. Senna was classified third in the final standings, with 57 points, with six podium finishes and only one pole position. This season marked a turning point in Senna's career as, throughout the year, he built a deep relationship with Honda, one which would pay big dividends, as McLaren had secured Williams's supply of Honda's V6 turbo engines for 1988.\n\nIn 1988, due to the relationship he had built up with Honda throughout the 1987 season with Lotus, and with the approval of McLaren's number-one driver and then-double world champion, Alain Prost, Senna joined the McLaren team. The foundation for a fierce competition between Senna and Prost was laid, culminating in a number of dramatic race incidents between the two over the next five years. However, the experienced pair also quickly realized, despite their personal rivalry, they had to work together, especially in testing, to keep ahead of their main opposition from Ferrari, Williams, Benetton, Lotus, and March.\n\nOne notable incident of the year was at the Monaco Grand Prix, where Senna outqualified Prost by 1.4 seconds and led for most of the race before crashing on lap 67. Instead of returning to the pit lane, Senna went back to his apartment and did not contact the team until he walked into the pit garage as they were packing up later that night. As the television cameras had not captured his crash, team boss Ron Dennis did not know what had caused his DNF until then, though Prost speculated that judging from the tyre marks, it appeared as though Senna had clipped the inside barrier at Portiers, which pitched him into the outside guard rail. At the 1988 Portuguese Grand Prix, Prost made a slightly faster start than Senna, but the Brazilian dived into the first corner ahead. Prost responded and went to pass Senna at the end of the first lap. Senna swerved to block Prost, forcing the Frenchman to nearly run into the pit wall at . Prost kept his foot down and soon edged Senna into the first corner and started pulling away. Though Prost was angered by Senna's manoeuvre, the Brazilian got away with a warning from the FIA. At the postrace team debrief, Prost voiced his anger at the move which prompted Senna to apologize to Prost for the incident. Ultimately, the pair won 15 of 16 races in the McLaren MP4/4 in 1988 with Senna coming out on top, winning his first Formula One world championship title by taking eight wins to Prost's seven. Prost scored more points over the season, but had to drop three second places as only the 11 best scores counted.\n\nHowever, the biggest incident of the year happened at the Italian Grand Prix at Monza. With two laps remaining, Senna held a five-second lead over the Ferraris of Gerhard Berger and Michele Alboreto, who were closing in on the McLaren (Prost had earlier retired with a badly misfiring engine). Going into the Rettifilo Chicane, Senna closed on the Williams of Jean-Louis Schlesser (standing in for a sick Nigel Mansell). Schlesser steered wide, attempting to give Senna room to lap him, losing then regaining control to avoid going into the sand trap. Unfortunately, Senna did not give the Williams room and took his normal racing line. Subsequently, Senna's McLaren was T-boned and ended up beached on a curb with broken rear suspension. Ferrari would go on to an emotional 1–2 finish, the first in an Italian Grand Prix since the death of the team's founder Enzo Ferrari. This would prove to be the only race McLaren did not win in 1988.\n\nDuring the season, Senna rewrote the record books. His eight wins beat the old record of seven jointly held by Jim Clark () and Prost (1984). His 13 pole positions also beat the record of nine held by Nelson Piquet (1984).\n\nThe following year, the rivalry between Senna and Prost intensified into numerous battles on the track and a psychological war off it. Tension and mistrust between the two drivers increased when Senna overtook Prost at the restart of the San Marino Grand Prix, a move which Prost claimed violated a prerace agreement (Senna denied the existence of any agreement, though Prost's story was backed up by John Hogan of the team's major sponsor, Marlboro). Senna took an early lead in the championship with victories in San Marino, Monaco, and Mexico. Senna also achieved the feat of leading every lap of those races which was not equalled until Sebastian Vettel in . Senna also managed to win in Germany, Belgium, and Spain. However, unreliability in Phoenix, Canada, France, Britain, and Italy, together with collisions in Brazil and Portugal, swung the title in Prost's favour.\n\nProst took the 1989 world title after a collision with Senna at the Suzuka Circuit in Japan, the penultimate race of the season, which Senna needed to win to remain in contention for the title. Prost had managed to leave the grid faster than Senna by removing the gurney flap from his car, which was unbeknownst to Senna. This reduction in aerodynamic downforce made Prost's car faster on the straights, but slower through corners- a clever choice to make it even harder for Senna to pass on a circuit already difficult on which to pass. On lap 46, Senna had finally come next to Prost and attempted a pass on the inside at the last chicane. Prost turned right into the upcoming corner, cutting Senna off and tangling wheels with him. The collision caused both McLarens to slide to a standstill into the escape road ahead. Prost abandoned the race at that point, whereas Senna urged marshals for a push-start, which he received, then proceeding with the race after a pit stop to replace the damaged nose on his car. He took the lead from the Benetton of Alessandro Nannini and went on to claim victory, only to be disqualified following a stewards meeting after the race. Senna was disqualified for receiving a push start, cutting the chicane after the collision with Prost, and for crossing into the pit lane entry which was not part of the track. A large fine and temporary suspension of his FIA Super License followed in the winter of 1989, and an irate Senna engaged in a bitter war of words with the FIA and its then-president, Jean-Marie Balestre, whom he blamed for his disqualification in Japan. Senna claimed that Balestre had forced the race stewards to disqualify him so his fellow Frenchman Prost could win the championship, though the stewards of the meeting denied that Balestre forced their decision, claiming that he was not present when the decision was made. Senna finished the season second with six wins and one second place. Prost left McLaren for rivals Ferrari for the following year.\n\nIn 1990, Senna took a commanding lead in the championship with six wins, two second places, and three thirds. With Prost gone to Ferrari, he also had a new teammate in Austrian driver Gerhard Berger. Among his victories were the opening round in Phoenix, in which he diced for the lead for several laps with a then-unknown Jean Alesi before coming out on top, and in Germany, where he fought Benetton driver Alessandro Nannini throughout the race for the win. As the season reached its final quarter, however, Alain Prost in his Ferrari rose to the challenge with five wins, including a crucial victory in Spain where he and teammate Nigel Mansell finished 1–2 for the Scuderia. Senna had gone out with a damaged radiator, and the gap between Senna and Prost was now reduced to 9 points with two races remaining.\n\nAt the penultimate round of the championship in Japan at Suzuka, where Senna and Prost collided the previous year, Senna took pole ahead of Prost. Before qualifying, Senna had sought assurances from the organisers to move pole position left onto the clean side of the racetrack. After qualifying, FIA president Balestre denied Senna's request, leaving Senna to start on the dirty right side, thus favouring Prost on the left. In addition, as revealed by F1 journalist Maurice Hamilton, the FIA had warned that crossing the yellow line of the pit exit on the right to better position oneself at the first corner would have not been appropriate, further infuriating Senna. At the beginning of the race, Prost pulled ahead of Senna, who immediately tried to repass Prost at the first corner. While Prost turned in, Senna kept his foot on the accelerator and the cars collided at 270 km/h (170 mph) and spun out of the race, making Senna world champion.\n\nFollowing the second championship-deciding collision in two years, Jackie Stewart interviewed Senna at the 1990 Australian Grand Prix (where Senna won pole and led for 61 laps before gearbox trouble forced him to slide off into a tyre barrier) and brought up a number of controversial collisions in which Senna had been involved over the last few years, stating that Senna had made more contact with other cars and drivers in the last four years than all the champions before him. An irritated Senna questioned how someone like Stewart, himself a triple world champion, could ask questions like he did, knowing the pressure under which drivers raced.\n\nA year later, after taking his third world championship, Senna explained to the press his actions of the previous year in Suzuka. He maintained that prior to qualifying fastest, he had sought and received assurances from race officials that pole position would be changed to the left, clean side of the track (where the racing line was), only to find this decision reversed by Jean-Marie Balestre after he had taken pole. Senna said that he was not going to accept what he saw as unfair decision-making by Balestre, including his 1989 disqualification and the incorrect pole position in 1990 (though some in the F1 paddock noted that the pole position at Suzuka was actually on the same side of the track it had been since F1 returned to Japan in 1987, and many privately wondered why Senna was suddenly making a fuss about it, considering he had been on pole there in both 1988 and 1989, when he was also fighting Prost for the championship). Senna stated that no matter what happened, he would not yield the corner and that Prost taking his normal racing line would result in an accident. Prost would later go on record criticising Senna's actions as \"disgusting\", saying that he seriously considered retiring from the sport after that incident.\n\nIn , Senna became the youngest ever three-time world champion, taking seven wins and increasing his pole position record to 60 from 127 events. Prost, because of the downturn in performance at Ferrari, the likes of which littered the team's history, was no longer a serious competitor. In preseason testing, Senna made public misgivings about the car's competitiveness with the new Honda V12, stating that the engine was not as powerful as the prior year's V10. Senna won the first four races as his rivals struggled to match his pace and reliability. By midseason, Nigel Mansell in the Williams-Renault was able to put up a challenge. Before the Mexican Grand Prix, Senna was injured in a jet-skiing accident near São Paulo for which he required stitches on the back of his head. During qualifying for that Grand Prix, he attempted to take the banked 180-degree Peraltada corner (Mexico City circuit's fastest corner) faster than normal, ending up spinning off the track and rolling over the car after crashing into a tyre barrier. At the British Grand Prix at Silverstone, Senna's car had come to a halt on the final lap, but he was not left stranded out on the circuit, as race-winner Mansell pulled over on his parade lap and allowed the Brazilian to ride on the Williams side-pod back to the pits. During the Spanish Grand Prix, Senna and Mansell went wheel-to-wheel with only centimetres to spare, at over 320 km/h (200 mph) down the main straight, a race which the Briton eventually won.\n\nThough Senna's consistency, the car's competitiveness and the Williams's unreliability at the beginning of the season gave him an early advantage, Senna insisted that Honda step up their engine development program and demanded further improvements to the car before it was too late. These modifications enabled him to make a late-season push, and he won three more races to secure the championship, which was settled in Japan when Mansell (who needed to win), went off at the first corner while running third and beached his Williams in the gravel trap. Senna finished second, handing the victory to teammate Gerhard Berger at the last corner as a thank-you gesture for his support over the season. Senna was planning to move to the Williams team for the 1992 season, but Honda's CEO, Nobuhiko Kawamoto, personally requested that he remain at McLaren-Honda, which Senna did out of a sense of loyalty.\n\nThat year, as had been the case in 1988 and 1990, Senna won the prestigious \"International Racing Driver Award\" granted by British magazine \"Autosport\" annually. The award was presented by Stirling Moss and Senna was interviewed on stage by Formula 1 commentator, Murray Walker. During the interview, Senna confirmed that at the Fédération Internationale du Sport Automobile (FISA) gala dinner in Paris the day before, under the auspices of Jackie Stewart, Senna had gifted one of his helmets to his renowned foe, Jean-Marie Balestre, because of the sincere atmosphere that presented itself.\n\nIn 1992, Senna's determination to win manifested itself in dismay at McLaren's inability to challenge Williams's all-conquering FW14B car. McLaren's new car for the season had several shortcomings. A delay occurred in getting the new model running (it debuted in the third race of the season, the Brazilian Grand Prix) and in addition to lacking active suspension, the new car suffered from reliability issues and was unpredictable in fast corners, while its Honda V12 engine was no longer the most powerful on the circuit. During practice for the second race of the season in Mexico on a circuit Senna was heavily critical of, his car hit a bump that caused a loss of downforce and hard crash into a concrete retaining wall. He had to be extricated from the car by circuit doctors; although he raced the next day, albeit retiring from the race due to gearbox failure. Senna scored wins in Monaco, Hungary, and Italy that year. During qualifying for the Belgian Grand Prix, French driver Érik Comas crashed heavily and Senna was the first to arrive at the scene. He got out of his car and ran across the track to help the Frenchman, disregarding his own safety in an effort to aid a fellow driver. He later went to visit Comas in the hospital. His actions won universal praise from those in Formula One and seemed to soften his hard-nosed image. Senna finished fourth overall in the championship, behind the Williams duo of Mansell and Riccardo Patrese, and Benetton's Michael Schumacher.\n\nSenna's relationship with Schumacher had deteriorated throughout . At the Brazilian Grand Prix, Schumacher accused Senna of 'playing around' while attempting to overtake Senna, who had a problem with his engine. At the French Grand Prix, Schumacher collided with Senna, resulting in Senna's retirement. Senna later confronted Schumacher, who admitted responsibility for the accident. At a test session for the German Grand Prix, Senna and Schumacher had a confrontation in the pits, with Senna grabbing Schumacher by the collar and accusing him of endangering him by blocking him on the track.\n\nQuestions about Senna's intentions for the upcoming season lingered throughout 1992, as he did not have a contract with any team by the end of that year. Ferrari had offered him a contract which Senna discussed with Niki Lauda, but decided to decline the offer. He felt the McLaren cars were becoming less competitive than in previous years, especially given Honda's decision to abandon the sport at the end of 1992 and McLaren's lack of active suspension relating to rival Williams.\n\nGiven this scenario, Senna secured an IndyCar testing session with the support of conpatriot and Penske driver, Emerson Fittipaldi. In December 1992, in fact, Senna visited Firebird International Raceway in Chandler, Arizona, to test a 1992 Penske PC-21 racer. Unlike the more advanced F1 cars, this IndyCar was powered by a turbo Chevrolet-Ilmor V8, had a traditional transmission with clutch pedal and iron brakes, and was markedly heavier due to its bigger physical size in comparison to a smaller Formula One car. To familiarise himself, Senna initially ran 14 relatively slow laps before completing a further 10 laps on the same tyres and setting a best time of 49.09 seconds. By comparison, Fittipaldi had set a best time of 49.70 seconds, which he later improved to 48.5 seconds, only by using the new 1993 Penske PC-22 at his disposal during this test session.\n\nFor , attempts by McLaren boss Ron Dennis to secure a supply of the dominant Renault V10 engines failed. Similarly, Senna's offers to drive for Williams-Renault for free also failed, given that Alain Prost (who was returning to the sport after a sabbatical year) succeeded in obtaining the inclusion of a clause in his contract with Williams vetoing Senna from joining as a teammate. Faced with this, during a press conference at the season-opening test session at the Estoril Circuit on the Portuguese Riviera, an infuriated Senna called Prost a coward, leading to some commentators stating that what Prost had done was no different from Senna vetoeing Derek Warwick from joining Lotus in 1986, but they did not take into account that Senna's chances of winning the championship were much higher in 1993.\n\nBy this time, McLaren was forced to take a customer supply of Ford V8 engines, which were two specifications behind that of Ford's then factory team, Benetton. McLaren hoped to make up for the inferior horsepower with mechanical sophistication, including an effective active suspension system – though the system itself proved difficult at times, especially for new teammate Michael Andretti. With this plan, Dennis finally persuaded Senna to stay with McLaren. The Brazilian, however, agreed to do so only for the first race in South Africa, where he would assess whether McLaren's equipment was competitive enough for him to put in a good season. After driving McLaren's 1993 car, the McLaren MP4/8, Senna concluded that the new car had a surprising potential, albeit with a Ford V8 engine down on power relative to Prost's Renault V10. Senna thus extended his deal with McLaren on a race-by-race basis instead of a full-year contract, ending up staying for the whole of 1993 in any event. Reportedly, this engagement was on a $1 million per race basis and, despite midseason testing with a Lamborghini V12 proved encouraging, with McLaren then signing an engine supply deal with Peugeot for the season, it all proved insufficient to continue to retain Senna past 1993.\n\nIn the opening race in South Africa, Senna finished in second place after surviving a collision with Schumacher. Senna won in changing conditions in Brazil and Donington. The latter has often been regarded as one of Senna's greatest victories, in the process setting a record for the fastest lap in an F1 race driving through the then speed-unrestricted pit lane. He was fifth at the first corner and led the race at the end of the first lap going on to lap all but second place in a race where up to seven pit stops were required by some drivers for rain or slick tyres. Senna then scored a second-place finish in Spain and a record-breaking sixth win at Monaco. After Monaco, the sixth race of the season, Senna unexpectedly led the championship from Prost in the Williams-Renault. As the season progressed, Alain Prost and Damon Hill asserted the superiority of their Williams-Renault cars, while Senna suffered mechanical failures in Imola, Canada, Britain, Hungary, and Portugal. Senna won the penultimate race of the season in Japan, which was marked by an incident involving Jordan's rookie Eddie Irvine, twice unlapping himself against Senna. Immediately after the race, Senna attended at Jordan's garage and, following a lengthy and heated discussion, punched the Irishman in the face.\n\nThe season concluded in Australia, with what would be Senna's 41st and last F1 career win, as well as the last win for an active-suspension F1 car (ironically, 1987 had the first victory for such cars also at the hands of Senna in Monaco). The win in Adelaide was an emotional one due to Senna ending his successful career with McLaren and defeating his biggest rival, Prost, for the last time. Because of the Frenchman's imminent retirement from the sport, Senna surprised the F1 community by openly welcoming Prost on the top step of the podium, which many considered a sign of pacification between the duo. Overall, Senna finished the championship second to Prost.\n\nDuring Tina Turner's after-race concert in Adelaide, Senna surprised everyone, including Turner, when he appeared on-stage midway through the night. With the crowd cheering, Turner admitted she was a fan of the Brazilian and resang her hit \"The Best\" as a tribute to Senna and his Australian Grand Prix win earlier in the day.\n\nFor 1994, Senna was able to finally join the Williams team given the retirement of Prost and was reportedly paid a $20 million salary. With Prost's retirement at the end of 1993, and Williams's consequential lack of a defending World Champion carrying race number 1 for a second year running, Senna would race in 1994 with number 2 and teammate Damon Hill would race with number 0 for the second year in a row.\n\nRule changes for 1994 had banned active suspension, traction control, and ABS. During preseason testing, the new Williams FW16 car exhibited none of the superiority of the FW15C and FW14B cars that preceded it, and Senna found himself in close running with the Benetton B194 of Schumacher. Senna expressed his discomfort with the handling of his car, stating, \"I have a very negative feeling about driving the car and driving it on the limit and so on ... Some of that is down to the lack of electronic change. Also, the car has its own characteristics which I'm not fully confident in yet.\" Senna further added, \"It's going to be a season with lots of accidents, and I'll risk saying that we'll be lucky if something really serious doesn't happen.\"\n\nThe first race of the season was at Interlagos in Brazil, where Senna took pole position. He took an early lead, but Schumacher's Benetton was never far behind. Schumacher took the race lead for good after passing Senna in the pits. While trying for a win, he pushed too hard and spun the car coming out of Junção on lap 56, stalling it and retiring from the race. The second race was the inaugural Pacific Grand Prix at Aida, where Senna again placed the car on the pole. However, after being beaten to the first corner by second-qualifier Schumacher, he was hit from behind in the first corner by Mika Häkkinen and his race came to a definitive end when, while spinning backwards into the first corner's gravel trap, the Ferrari driven by Nicola Larini T-boned the Williams. Both drivers retired with front-suspension damage. Hill also retired with transmission problems, while Schumacher took the victory again.\n\nIt was Senna's worst start to a Formula One season, failing to finish or score points in the first two races, despite taking pole position both times. Schumacher was leading Senna in the Drivers' Championship by 20 points. In occasion of the 20th anniversary of Senna's death, Ferrari president Luca Cordero di Montezemolo revealed that, on 27 April 1994, he had held discussions at his home in Bologna with Senna about a future Ferrari engagement.\n\nThe 1994 season was the subject of sweeping rule changes, most notably banning the use of electronic \"driver aids\" such as active suspension, anti-lock brakes, traction control and launch control. From the start, suspicion of foul play mainly involving the Benetton team was said to have troubled Senna. For example, instead of returning to the pit area after his first lap retirement at the Pacific Grand Prix, Senna opted to stand near the first corner and watch the cars complete the race to see if he could detect whether any now banned traction control system was being used. He returned to the Williams box after the race suspicious that the Benetton car was illegal. Indeed, in an interview for the 20th anniversary of Ayrton Senna's death, his then teammate, Damon Hill, revealed that Senna had \"concluded that there was, what he regarded, as unusual noises from the engine\" with \"special tweak\" giving Benetton an advantage.\n\nThe season ended at the Australian Grand Prix in Adelaide, where the first-corner chicane at the Adelaide Street Circuit was renamed the \"Senna Chicane\". Schumacher went on to win the driver's world championship title controversially after a collision that forced his retirement and that of his rival, and Senna teammate, Damon Hill. At the official FIA conference after the race, the German dedicated his title to Senna.\n\nSenna died aged 34 after succumbing to fatal injuries sustained during his final race at the San Marino Grand Prix, on 1 May 1994.\n\nThe 1994 San Marino Grand Prix was held on the \"Autodromo Enzo e Dino Ferrari\" circuit located in Imola, Italy, between 28 April, and 1 May 1994. Senna stayed in room no. 200 at the Hotel Castello in Castel San Pietro Terme.\n\nThe European leg of the F1 season, starting at Imola, was traditionally considered the beginning of the yearly competition. Senna, who did not finish the two opening races of the season, declared that this was where his season would start, with 14 races, as opposed to 16, in which to win the title. Williams brought modified FW16s to Imola in an attempt to improve the car's handling.\n\nOn Friday, Senna placed the car on the pole for a then-record 65th and final time, but he was upset by events unfolding that race weekend. Senna complained about the FW16's handling and reported that the car's performance was generally worse after the engineers' latest adjustments. During the afternoon qualifying session, Senna's compatriot and protégé Rubens Barrichello was involved in a serious accident when his Jordan became airborne at the Variante Bassa chicane and hit the tyre-wall and fence. Barrichello suffered a broken nose and arm, and withdrew from the event. Barrichello reported that Senna was the first person he saw upon regaining consciousness.\n\nDuring Saturday qualifying, Austrian rookie Roland Ratzenberger was killed after the front wing of his Simtek-Ford broke entering the Villeneuve corner, sending the car into a concrete wall. Senna immediately visited the accident scene and medical centre. There he was met by FIA Medical Chief Professor Sid Watkins, who suggested to a tearful Senna that he should retire from racing and go fishing (a hobby they both shared), to which Senna replied that he could not stop racing. Senna was later called in front of the stewards for commandeering an official car and climbing the medical centre fence, and a row ensued, although Senna was not punished.\n\nSenna spent his final morning on the Sunday talking to former teammate and rival Alain Prost to discuss the re-establishment of the Grand Prix Drivers' Association, with the aim of improving safety in Formula One. Prost had retired from the sport at the end of the 1993 season, and was now a media presenter. As the most senior driver in competition, Senna offered to take the role of leader, starting from the next race in Monaco. During the drivers' briefing, concerns had been raised about the mainly promotional use of a Porsche 911 lead car for the warm-up lap, with organizers agreeing to abandon the practice. It is said that Williams Chief Engineer Patrick Head had pranked Senna on the grid by advising him that the lead car would not be excluded from the warm-up lap after all.\n\nAt the start of the Grand Prix, Senna retained the lead from Schumacher, but proceedings soon became interrupted by a startline accident. JJ Lehto's Benetton-Ford had stalled and was hit by the Lotus-Mugen Honda of Pedro Lamy. A wheel and debris landed in the main grandstand, injuring eight fans and a police officer. The safety car, a sporty version of the Opel Vectra medium family saloon, was deployed for several laps. The Vectra's slow pace was later questioned because of the consequential drop in tyre pressures on the Formula One cars. Senna had pulled alongside the Vectra and gestured to the driver, Max Angelelli, to increase his speed. On lap 6, the race resumed and Senna immediately set a quick pace with the third-quickest lap of the race, followed by Schumacher.\n\nAs Senna rounded the high-speed Tamburello corner on lap 7, his car left the racing line at around , ran in a straight line off the track, and hit the concrete retaining wall at around , after what telemetry showed to be an application of the brakes for around two seconds. The red flag was shown as a consequence of the accident.\n\nWithin two minutes of crashing, Senna was extracted from his race car by Watkins and his medical team, including intensive care anaesthetist Giovanni Gordini. Initial treatment took place by the side of the car, with Senna having a weak heartbeat and significant blood loss (around 4.5 liters). Because of Senna's poor neurological condition, Watkins performed an on-site tracheotomy and requested the immediate airlifting of Senna to Bologna's Maggiore Hospital under the supervision of Gordini.\n\nAt 18:40, the head of the hospital's emergency department, Maria Teresa Fiandri made the announcement that Senna had died, but said the official time of death under Italian law was 14:17, which is when he impacted the wall and his brain stopped working. Watkins later said that as soon as he saw Senna's fully dilated pupils, he knew that his brainstem was inactive and that he would not survive.\n\nThe right-front wheel and suspension are believed to have been sent back into the cockpit, striking Senna on the right side of his helmet, forcing his head back against the headrest. In addition, a piece of the upright assembly, most likely a tie rod, penetrated the helmet visor, which was a new, thinner version, above his right eye. Senna sustained fatal skull fractures, brain injuries and a ruptured temporal artery.\n\nAs later revealed, when the medical staff examined Senna, a furled Austrian flag was found in his car—a flag that he had intended to raise in honour of Ratzenberger after the race. Photographs of Senna being treated on the track by emergency medical personnel were taken by Senna's friend and \"Autosprint\"s picture editor, Angelo Orsi. Out of respect, those photographs have never been made public.\n\nOn 27 April 2014, as part of commemorating Senna on the 20th anniversary of his death, a three-journalist panel composed of Murray Walker, Maurice Hamilton, and David Tremayne and interviewed by Sky Sports' Simon Lazenby, concurred that, at his final F1 Grand Prix race, Senna was under extreme pressure due to: \n\nSenna's death was considered by many of his Brazilian fans to be a national tragedy, and the Government of Brazil declared three days of national mourning. The Italian Air Force offered to fly the coffin back to Brazil, but the Senna family wished that it return home in a Brazilian plane. Contrary to airline policy and out of respect, Senna's coffin was allowed to be flown back to his home country in the passenger cabin of a VARIG McDonnell-Douglas MD-11 airliner, accompanied by his distraught younger brother, Leonardo, and close friends. The plane was escorted by fighter jets into São Paulo–Guarulhos International Airport on 4 May 1994, where it was met by the Mayor of São Paulo, Paulo Maluf, and the state's governor, Luís Antônio Fleury. The coffin was carried by soldiers from the Air Force Police to a fire engine, where eight cadets from the Military Police Academy mounted guard as it carried the coffin on the 20-mile journey into the city. Leading the motorcade were 17 police motorbikes, and 2,500 policemen lined the route to keep the crowds at bay.\n\nAn estimated three million people flocked to the streets of Senna's hometown of São Paulo to offer him their salute. This is widely accepted as the largest recorded gathering of mourners in modern times. Over 200,000 people filed past as his body lay in state at the Legislative Assembly building in Ibirapuera Park. After the public viewing, a 21-gun salute was fired by the 2nd Artillery Brigade and seven Brazilian Air Force jets flew in a diamond formation as the funeral procession made its way to Morumbi Cemetery. Many prominent motor-racing figures attended Senna's state funeral, such as team managers Ken Tyrrell, Peter Collins, Ron Dennis, and Frank Williams, and driver Jackie Stewart. The pallbearers included drivers Gerhard Berger, Michele Alboreto, Alain Prost, Thierry Boutsen, Damon Hill, Rubens Barrichello, Roberto Moreno, Derek Warwick, Maurício Gugelmin, Hans Stuck, Johnny Herbert, Pedro Lamy, Maurizio Sala, Raul Boesel, Emerson Fittipaldi, Wilson Fittipaldi, and Christian Fittipaldi. Neither Sid Watkins nor Jo Ramírez, the McLaren team coordinator, could bear to attend because they were so grief-stricken. Senna's family did not allow FOM president Bernie Ecclestone, a friend of Senna's, to attend the ceremony, after an altercation between Ecclestone and Senna's brother Leonardo at Imola regarding Ecclestone's misconstrued reaction to the news of Ayrton's death and the fact that the race had not been abandoned after his accident. FIA President Max Mosley instead attended the funeral of Ratzenberger, which took place on 7 May 1994, in Salzburg, Austria. Mosley said in a press conference 10 years later, \"I went to his funeral because everyone went to Senna's. I thought it was important that somebody went to his.\" Senna's grave bears the epitaph \"Nada pode me separar do amor de Deus\", which means \"Nothing can separate me from the love of God\" (a reference to Romans 8:38–39).\n\nA testament to the adulation he inspired among fans worldwide was the scene at the Tokyo headquarters of Honda, where the McLaren cars were typically displayed after each race. Upon his death, so many floral tributes were received, they overwhelmed the large exhibition lobby. This was despite the fact Senna no longer drove for McLaren and that McLaren in the preceding seasons did not use Honda power. Senna had a special relationship with company founder Soichiro Honda and was beloved in Japan, where he achieved a near mythic status. For the next race at Monaco, the FIA decided to leave the first two grid positions empty and painted them with the colours of the Brazilian and the Austrian flags, to honour Senna and Ratzenberger.\n\nItalian law requires that accidents resulting in a fatality must be investigated for any criminal culpability, with the associated scene of the accident secured and the activities that led to the fatality, suspended forthwith. Senna's death was thus the subject of criminal proceedings in Italy, which saw key Williams team members investigated and charged with manslaughter. The original trial in 1997 concluded with acquittals on the grounds that the prosecution had failed to prove its case. This prosecution culminated with verdict no. 15050 handed down by the Italian Supreme Court of Cassation on 13 April 2007, which stated: \"It has been determined that the accident was caused by a steering column failure. This failure was caused by badly designed and badly executed modifications. The responsibility of this falls on Patrick Head, culpable of omitted control\". Head, however, was never arrested because the Italian statute of limitation for manslaughter is 7 years and 6 months, and the final verdict was pronounced 13 years after the accident.\n\nThe criminal charges focused on the car's steering column, which was found to have sheared off at a point where a modification had been made. The prosecution alleged that the column had failed causing the accident and the Williams team conceded to this failure, but only as caused by the impact at the Tamburello corner. Senna had not liked the position of his FW16's steering wheel relative to the seating position and had asked for the former to be changed. Head and Adrian Newey satisfied Senna's request by having the existing column cut and extended with a smaller-diameter piece of tubing, which was welded together with reinforcing plates. The modification was carried out in this manner as there was no time to manufacture a new longer steering column in time for the race.\n\nSenna was a devout Catholic, once saying: \"Just because I believe in God, just because I have faith in God, it doesn't mean that I'm immune. It doesn't mean that I'm immortal\" (1989). He often read the Bible on long flights from São Paulo to Europe. According to sister Viviane, Senna had sought strength from the Bible on the morning of his death: \"On that final morning, he woke and opened his Bible and read a text that he would receive the greatest gift of all, which was God himself.\"\n\nAs his profile rose, Senna expressed concern over the poor in Brazil. After his death, he was discovered to have quietly donated millions of his personal fortune to help poor children. Shortly before his death, he created the framework for an organisation dedicated to Brazilian children, which later became the Instituto Ayrton Senna (IAS).\n\nSenna was often quoted as using driving as a means for self-discovery and racing as a metaphor for life: \"The harder I push, the more I find within myself. I am always looking for the next step, a different world to go into, areas where I have not been before. It's lonely driving a Grand Prix car, but very absorbing. I have experienced new sensations, and I want more. That is my excitement, my motivation.\"\n\nTowards the end of his career, Senna became increasingly preoccupied with the dangers of his profession. On the morning of his death, he initiated the reformation of the GPDA safety organisation, with which he had intended to work to improve the safety of his sport.\n\nSenna owned several properties, including an organic farm in Tatuí, Brazil (where he built a go-kart track in 1991), a beach house in Angra dos Reis, Brazil, an apartment in São Paulo, Brazil, an apartment in Monaco, an estate in Sintra, on the Portuguese Riviera, and a house in Algarve, Portugal. In 1994, the latter residence is where Senna let his last girlfriend, Adriane Galisteu, stay for the start of the European leg of the F1 season. The pair had met the year before at an hospitality event by McLaren sponsor, Shell, as part of the Brazilian Grand Prix for which Galisteu had to audition through a model agency, to work as a hostess.\nSenna enjoyed a range of physical activities including running, waterskiing, jet skiing, and paddleboarding. He also had several hobbies, such as flying real and model planes and helicopters, boating, fishing, and riding his favourite Ducati motorbikes. His private jet was a British Aerospace 125, and he also piloted his own helicopter between his residences in Brazil along with travelling to races. For his 29th birthday in 1989, the Brazilian Air Force gifted Senna a flight on one of their jet fighters (a Dassault Mirage III), which bears commemorative livery and is now exhibited at the Aerospace Museum of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nSenna was close friends with McLaren teammate Gerhard Berger, and the two were always playing practical jokes on each other. Berger is quoted as saying, \"He taught me a lot about our sport, I taught him to laugh.\" In the documentary film \"The Right to Win\", made in 2004 as a tribute to Senna, Frank Williams notably recalls that as good a driver as Senna was, ultimately \"he was an even greater man outside of the car than he was in it.\"\n\nSenna was married to Lilian de Vasconcelos Souza from 1981 until 1982. Vasconcelos, whom he had known since childhood, had difficulty adapting to her husband's racing life in England. Vasconcelos later said: \"I was his second passion. His first passion was racing... There was nothing more important in the world for him, not family, not wife, nothing.\" Though he did not have much of an income early in his racing career, Senna insisted on supporting his wife with no help from his father out of a sense of pride. The marriage ended in divorce. Senna then courted Adriane Yamin, daughter of an entrepreneur from São Paulo, who was 15 years old when they began the relationship in 1985 and often chaperoned by her mother during meetings with Senna. They were briefly engaged, but the relationship was broken off by Senna in late 1988. Senna dated Brazilian TV star Xuxa from late 1988 until 1990. He then dated Christine Ferracciu, who lived with him at his homes in Monaco and Portugal, on and off between 1990 and 1991. Senna also had an affair with American model Carol Alt, and briefly dated models Marjorie Andrade and Elle Macpherson. At the time of his death, Senna was in a relationship with Brazilian model, and later TV personality, Adriane Galisteu.\n\nOne of the most extravagant claims involving Senna's past partners was made by Edilaine de Barros, a former model better known as Marcella Praddo. She alleged that the couple dated from 1992 to 1994. Weeks after Senna's death, de Barros' child, Victoria, was born and claims that Senna was the father were soon made but abandoned following rejection of those claims by the Senna family. Years later, after joining a religious sect, the former model was convinced to sue against the estate of Senna. In 2000, DNA tests of hair and saliva samples given by Senna's parents conclusively proved that he was not the father of de Barros' child.\n\nIn his early years in Formula One, Senna was the subject of a smear campaign orchestrated by Nelson Piquet, ranging from Senna being regarded a taxi driver to being homosexual given his failed marriage. According to a 1990 interview by Brazilian edition of \"Playboy\", Senna declared that he lost his virginity at 13 years of age to a prostitute arranged by his cousin, and he also insinuated having had a relationship with Piquet's would-be wife (hence Piquet's acrimony).\n\nFormer Formula One driver Bruno Senna is the nephew of Senna (being his sister Viviane's son) of whom he said in 1993: \"If you think I'm fast, just wait until you see my nephew Bruno.\" Due to the death of his uncle, Bruno initially gave up motor racing at his family's insistence. He eventually raced in F1 between 2010 and 2012, in the latter year for the Williams team, which was a decision that, reportedly, had a significant emotional impact on the Senna family and was seen by some as a signing only resulting from Bruno's big name and the money it could bring.\n\nIn the late 1980s, to take advantage of the close relationship Honda had formed with Senna, the Japanese company asked him to help fine-tune the Honda NSX's suspension setting during its final development stages. Test runs were conducted at various circuits, including five sessions with prototypes at the Suzuka Circuit where chief NSX engineer Shigeru Uehara and his team were present to gather Senna's direct input. Senna found the prototype NSX initially lacked chassis stiffness to the level to which he was accustomed, so the final production version was further reinforced to his satisfaction.\n\nSenna reportedly had access to three of these cars: a black 1993 NSX in Brazil, which he ordered to his specifications, bearing license plate BSS-8888, which represents his initials for \"Beco\" – his childhood nickname – \"Senna da Silva\" and 8 to commemorate his first F1 championship in 1988; a red one with licence plate SX-25-59, which was loaned to him by Honda Portugal; a black one purchased by Antonio Carlos de Almeida Braga, who was a close personal friend, manager, and mentor of Ayrton Senna.\n\nSenna was also instrumental in bringing Audi cars into his native country, both as an import and manufacturing business. Audi entered Brazil in 1994 via Senna's company, Senna Import, founded in 1993. Sales began in April that year, just a month before his untimely death. In 1999, Audi Senna was created as a joint venture of Audi with Senna Import. Aside from the black NSX mentioned above, Senna's other personal car in 1994 was a silver Audi 100 S4 Avant.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Senna developed his own merchandise brand represented by a logo with a double S, after his full surname, \"Senna da Silva\". This logo is meant to represent an S chicane on a racing circuit. The Senna brand was on apparel, watches, bicycles (Carraro), motorcycles and boats. Hublot, TAG Heuer, and Universal Genève have created limited-edition watches to honor Senna, both during his lifetime and after his death.\n\nMany safety improvements were made in the sport following Senna's and Ratzenberger's deaths and Barrichello's crash. These include improved crash barriers, redesigned tracks, higher crash safety standards (such as larger sills along the driver cockpit) and major cuts to engine power. The Tamburello corner and other parts of the Imola circuit were altered for 1995. This was despite calls for action in 1989, after a serious high-speed crash in which Senna's friend, Gerhard Berger, suffered burns to his hand. No action took place after that crash because, following an inspection by Senna and Berger, they ended up siding with officials who had, for years, claimed that the wall could not be moved further back due to a river nearby. Revised on-track medical procedures also saw personnel hold up curtains at crash sites, to prevent the public from viewing distressing images as had occurred on live television with Senna.\n\nIn July 1994, the Brazil national football team dedicated their World Cup victory to Senna, and collectively held a banner on the field after defeating Italy in the final. Senna had met various members of the squad, including Ronaldo and Leonardo, three months earlier in Paris, telling them \"this is our year\". Throughout the rest of the 1994 season, Senna was commemorated in various ways. Damon Hill, along with Michael Schumacher, dedicated their individual success to Senna with Hill's victory in the Spanish Grand Prix and Schumacher's world-championship victory in the Australian Grand Prix.\n\nA few months before his death, Senna had discussed with his sister the foundation of a charitable organization, based on a desire to contribute to those less fortunate in a more organised and effective manner. After his death, Viviane Senna set up the Instituto Ayrton Senna in his honor, which has invested nearly US$80 million over the last 12 years in social programs and actions in partnership with schools, government, NGOs, and the private sector, aimed at offering children and teenagers from low-income backgrounds the skills and opportunities they need to develop their full potential as persons, citizens, and future professionals. The foundation is officially advised by Bernie Ecclestone, Frank Williams, Alain Prost, and Gerhard Berger. The Senninha (\"Little Senna\") cartoon character, born in 1993/94, was another means by which Senna extended his role-model status in favour of Brazilian children.\nIn his home country of Brazil, the main freeway from the international airport to São Paulo and a tunnel along route to the heart of the city are named in his honour. Also, one of the most important freeways of Rio de Janeiro is named after Senna (\"Avenida Ayrton Senna\"). The main road in Senna's Portuguese resort at Quinta do Lago, Algarve, was also dedicated to him, because his villa there was very near (but not on) this road. A portion of the Interlagos Circuit in São Paulo is named the \"Senna Esses Chicane\" in his honor and decorated with commissioned art from beloved Brazilian artist Luciana Bermelho. In the English town of Reading, Berkshire, where Senna lived for a short period of time, an avenue in the suburb of Tilehurst was named after him.\n\nIn April 2000, Senna was inducted into the International Motorsports Hall of Fame. That year, the UK public also voted Senna's opening lap of the 1993 European Grand Prix, the 43rd in the list of the 100 Greatest Sporting Moments.\n\nIn 2004, a book called \"Ayrton: The Hero Revealed\" (original title: \"Ayrton: O Herói Revelado\") was published in Brazil for the 10th anniversary of his death. Senna remains a national hero in Brazil and his grave attracts more visitors than the graves of John F. Kennedy, Marilyn Monroe, and Elvis Presley combined.\n\nIn addition, to mark the 10th anniversary of Senna's death, on 21 April 2004, over 10,000 people attended a charity match in a football stadium near Imola. The game was organised by several devoted Italian and Canadian fans of Senna, bringing the Brazil team that won the 1994 World Cup to face the \"Nazionale Piloti\", an exhibition team composed exclusively of top race car drivers. Senna had been a part of the latter in 1985. Michael Schumacher, Jarno Trulli, Rubens Barrichello, Fernando Alonso, and many others faced the likes of Dunga, Careca, Taffarel, and several of the team that won the FIFA World Cup in the United States 10 years earlier. The match finished 5–5 and the money was donated to the IAS. Viviane Senna, the president of the IAS, was also involved in the kick-off of this match. That same weekend, Bernie Ecclestone revealed that he still believed Senna was and remained the best F1 driver he had ever seen.\n\nSince his death, Senna has been the subject of several songs (either wholly dedicated to him or simply referring to him) including by: Italian singer-songwriter Lucio Dalla (song titled \"Ayrton\") and rock band The Rock Alchemist (tribute song \"Live or Die\"); Jazz pianist Kim Pensyl; Japanese jazz-fusion guitarist and T-square bandleader Masahiro Andoh (references in songs such as \"Faces\" and subsequent revisions, like \"The Face\"); Chris Rea (on his song \"Saudade\"); Spanish band Delorean (2009 extended play entitled \"Ayrton Senna\"); British acid jazz band Corduroy (1994 song \"Ayrton Senna\").\n\nBetween 1996 and 1998, to pay tribute to Senna, the Italian motorcycle manufacturer Ducati produced three special \"Senna\" editions of their 916 superbike. Ducati was at the time owned by Claudio Castiglioni, a personal friend of Senna who was an avid Ducati owner and endorsed the release of this 916 in March 1994. In 2002, under the presidency of Castiglioni, MV Agusta also released the special-edition F4 750 Senna motorbike followed by the F4 Senna 1000 in 2006. In both instances, each edition was limited to 300 units and, just like with the Ducati, all profits from sales were donated to the Ayrton Senna Foundation. In 2013, Ducati also released a special edition of their new top-of-the-range sportbike, the 1199 Panigale S Senna. In 2014, the IAS commissioned a commemorative Vespa that was auctioned for charity. It was custom-painted in the colours of Ayrton Senna's helmet by Alan Mosca, the son of Senna's helmet design creator, Sid, based on more than 50 \"T5 Pole Position\" models of the PX125 scooter that Ayrton won as part of the award to Formula 1 polesitters introduced by Piaggio in 1985.\n\nThe organisers of the former Formula One Grand Prix street circuit in Adelaide, South Australia, renamed the first chicane the \"Senna Chicane\" in his honour in 1994, and also a road in the Adelaide suburb of Wingfield is named \"Senna Road\". A shortened version of the Adelaide circuit (which remains the site of Senna's last Formula One win) and the chicane remain in use for local motorsport events, and a commemorative concrete plaque installed in 1995, bearing Senna's signature and hand prints, is also located there. The Adelaide circuit was said to be a favourite of Senna's, and he was reportedly unhappy about the upcoming shift of venue from Adelaide to Melbourne in 1996. Other motorsports circuits have similarly named sections of their track after Senna, such as the Circuito de Jerez in Spain, and the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve in Canada.\n\nHe has been voted the best driver of all time in various motorsport polls, including \"F1 Racing\" magazine's 2004 poll, and German newspaper \"Bild am Sonntag's\" poll of current drivers in 2010. In 2009, a poll of 217 current and former Formula One drivers conducted by \"Autosport\" magazine named Senna as \"the greatest Formula One driver who ever lived\". In 2012, \"BBC Sport\" journalists voted Senna as the greatest Formula One driver of all time, after naming their top 20 greatest drivers in a countdown on their website. In 1993, a poll of F1 drivers gave Senna a near-unanimous vote as the best driver in F1.\n\nIn 2006, the Japanese public ranked Senna 22nd in a survey of their favorite persons in history. The results were part of \"The Top 100 Historical Persons in Japan\" program broadcast by Nippon TV on 7 May that year.\n\nIn 2007, Prince Albert of Monaco unveiled a plaque in honour of Senna in a ceremony that was attended by Vivane Senna. An exhibition also took place that showcased Senna's victories around Monaco, along with his helmets that were borrowed from Senna's family and a selection of McLaren cars raced by Senna that were brought over from Motegi.\n\nOn 21 March 2010, on the day that would have marked Senna's 50th birthday, the football team Corinthians, which Senna supported, played a tape in memory of Senna which was also part of the theme played at the São Paulo Motor Show.\n\nOn 25 July 2010, the BBC motoring show, \"Top Gear\" paid an emotional tribute to Senna with British Formula One World Champion, Lewis Hamilton driving Senna's original MP4/4, with which he won the 1988 title. This was prior to the release of the BAFTA Award winning documentary named after him, \"Senna\", directed by Asif Kapadia. In this documentary broadcast only once by the BBC, Senna is named the number one driver ever, by fellow racing drivers. A StudioCanal, Working Title Films, and Midfield Films documentary production, \"Senna\" was released to critical acclaim.\n\nSince Senna's death, every Williams F1 car has incorporated a small Senna 'S' logo in its Formula 1 car to honour their former driver and in support of the IAS. A revised logo was featured in 2014 for the 20th anniversary of Senna's death.\n\nIn July 2013, Honda released a video of an audio-visual tribute on the Suzuka circuit in the dark, titled \"Sound of Honda – Ayrton Senna 1989\". Using the telemetry and sound of the Honda-powered McLaren MP4/5 driven by the Brazilian driver, Honda recreated the then lap record lap of 1:38.041 minutes by positioning speakers and lights along the 5.8 km track and activating them in synchronization with the race car's position during that lap. In May of that year, Honda also reconfirmed its return to the sport as McLaren's engine supplier from 2015, with both companies again leveraging on Senna's legend as part of their advertising campaign since.\n\nOn 25 October 2013, a holiday PlayStation 3 bundle with Gran Turismo 6 was announced which is dedicated to his memory, with some of the proceeds of this bundle going to help the IAS. This was not the first time that Senna was immortalized in a video game since, in 1992, Sega launched \"Ayrton Senna's Super Monaco GP II\" for its game consoles at the time. Apart from featuring advice from Senna himself, the tracks included Senna's own farm circuit in Tatuí, São Paulo and it was based on the 1991 F1 World Championship (albeit, with fictitious rival drivers and teams due to licensing restrictions).\n\nIn March 2014, during the Brazilian Carnival celebrations, the samba group Unidos da Tijuca paid tribute to Senna in one of their parades in Rio de Janeiro. The group showcased his McLaren car along with other characters associated with speed, such as Sonic, The Flash, and Usain Bolt. The school won the coveted trophy for the best parade of 2014.\n\nOn 21 March 2014, Google had a special Doodle to honor Senna's 54th birthday that day.\n\nIn occasion of the 20th anniversary of Senna's death, on 29 April 2014, in partnership with the IAS, the Brazilian regional airline Azul Linhas Aereas paid tribute by baptizing its Embraer ERJ-195 (registration no. PR-AYU (cn 19000434)) with a new name and livery. The airplane, which was formerly called \"Azultec\", has been renamed \"#sennasempre\" (\"Senna always\") and features the IAS logo on the rear side of the fuselage and the graphics of Senna's F1 helmet at the front, making it appear as though it is wearing the iconic helmet.\n\nTributes were also made at the Imola circuit to mark the 20th anniversary of Senna's death. On 1 May 2014, thousands of fans from around the world gathered at the Tamburello corner, at the exact scene where Senna suffered his fatal crash 20 years earlier, to hold a minute's silence. Various current and former F1 drivers were in attendance, including: Ferrari drivers Fernando Alonso and Kimi Räikkönen; Ferrari Driver Academy member Jules Bianchi; Senna's close friend and McLaren teammate, Gerhard Berger; and the Italians Jarno Trulli, Ivan Capelli, Pierluigi Martini, Andrea de Cesaris, and Emanuele Pirro. Flowers and other cherishable items were also placed around the statue of Senna, situated directly adjacent to the Tamburello corner.\n\nIn May and July 2014, the Republic of San Marino issued 70,008 commemorative EUR 2,50 stamps as well as 8,000 silver proof coins in Eur 5,00 denomination. In December 2014, a French company also produced 520 commemorative coins designed by a Brazilian artist. The American firm Rosland Capital collaborated with the Ayrton Senna Institute to produce a commemorative coin collection in 2017.\n\nIn November 2014 British artist Ian Berry unveiled a portrait of Ayrton in São Paulo at the Institut Ayrton Senna to the press and the family of Ayrton Senna. The artist famed for his artwork using only jeans presented the piece, that also included the jeans of the Senna family to great acclaim. The piece traveled around the world for many fans to see and commemorated the 20th anniversary of his passing.\n\nIn February 2015, international footballer Alessandro Del Piero inaugurated the \"AYRTON\" exhibition held in Turin until May 2015 at ADPlog. It was a tribute to Senna curated by, and with tickets proceeds going to, the IAS. There were exhibits of his cars, go carts and helmets as well as the Ian Berry denim portrait \n\nIn July 2015, an update to \"Angry Birds Go!\" added Ayrton Senna as a playable driver.\n\nVarious Madame Tussauds's wax museums around the world exhibit a full-sized figure of Senna in racing overalls.\n\nIn 2015, when Lewis Hamilton won his third title, matching Ayrton's his hero's three, the Senna family gifted him an edition of the Ian Berry portrait made out of the families jeans, Viviani Senna presented it to him at the São Paulo GP.\n\nOn 10 June 2017, after qualifying on pole for the Canadian Grand Prix Lewis Hamilton was presented with a Senna helmet that had been worn by Senna during a race. It was given by Senna's family in recognition of Hamilton's 65th pole position, matching Senna's tally.\n\nOn 9 December 2017, McLaren unveiled the McLaren Senna, a 789bhp track-focused hypercar, named after Senna.\n\nOn October 1, 2018 Nike and Corinthians unveil a never-before-seen collection honoring Ayrton Senna, including the team's new third kit. The collection #LuteAtéSerEterno [fight until you're eternal] is a tribute to the 30th anniversary of the driver's first world title, which he won at Suzuka, in Japan. In a partnership with the Senna Institute, the collection is inspired in the color scheme of the Lotus, which is considered one of the most beautiful F1 race cars ever. Ayrton raced for the team in the 1985 and the 1986 seasons. The race driver was a supporter of the Brazil's soccer team.\n\nIn his karting days, Senna's helmet consisted of a plain white background with notable features absent. He experimented with several designs to satisfy him, such as a white, yellow, and green helmet, before settling on a design by Sid Mosca that included a yellow background with a green stripe surrounding the upper visor and a light metallic blue stripe surrounding the lower visor (both stripes are delineated in the other stripe's color) that was first seen in 1979; Mosca also painted helmets for Emerson Fittipaldi and Nelson Piquet.\n\nAccording to Mosca, the blue and green stripes symbolised movement and aggression, while the overall yellow colour symbolised youth; the three colors were also identifiable with the Flag of Brazil. The helmet never had significant changes, apart from sponsorship. One such change was that Senna would occasionally alter the stripe from blue to black. The tone of yellow changed a number of times, while usually a rich sunburst yellow, in 1985 and 1986 in some races, he used a fluorescent neon yellow colour. In 1994, the helmet was a lighter, paler yellow to complement the blue and white of the Williams car. He used a number of helmet brands throughout his career. From 1977 to 1989, he used Bell (Star – '77 to '82, XFM-1 – '83 to '89), from 1990 to 1991 Honda's own Rheos brand, 1992 to 1993 he used Shoei (X-4) and for 1994 he returned to using Bell (M3 Kevlar). The helmet worn by Senna in the fatal race was returned to Bell in 2002 and was incinerated while family members watched.\n\nHis nephew Bruno wore a modified version of his helmet design (a yellow helmet with a green and blue stripe) during his Formula One career, but the stripes are shaped after an S rather than being straight, under the chin area it has a green stripe, and it has a blue rounded rectangle in the top area. Bruno sported a modified helmet design for the final three races of the 2011 season to honour the 20th anniversary of Ayrton winning his last world championship.\n\nAt the 1995 Brazilian Grand Prix, Rubens Barrichello incorporated part of Senna's helmet design into his own. For the 2011 Brazilian Grand Prix, another variant of Senna's helmet was used by Lewis Hamilton and by Barrichello too. Hamilton used the design with permission from Senna's sister Viviane and the helmet was later sold in support of the IAS. At the 2015 Brazilian Grand Prix, Hamilton again varied his helmet design (this time, the rear only given FIA restrictions on design changes in force from 2015) accompanied with a Twitter announcement stating \"Just for you, Brazil!! A tribute to the greatest\".\n\nOutside of motor racing, Brazilian cyclist Murilo Fischer wore a helmet based on Senna's helmet colour scheme of yellow with green and blue stripes on stage 11 of the 2015 Giro d'Italia, which finished on the Imola circuit.\n\n Half points awarded as less than 75% of race distance was completed.\n\nSenna holds these Formula One records:\n\n"}
{"id": "14563320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14563320", "title": "Central Park Place", "text": "Central Park Place\n\nCentral Park Place is a 56-story condominium building in New York City. The building was completed in 1988, and is located at 301 West 57th Street (between Eighth Avenue & Ninth Avenue).\" It is one of the one hundred tallest buildings in New York City, standing at tall.\n\nIn 1987, during the construction of Central Park Place, a piece of lumber was dislodged from one of the higher floors during wind storm and hit a 37-year-old man in the head while he was walking on the east side of 8th Avenue opposite the building. He sustained massive brain trauma and died. The City of New York halted construction to investigate the incident. The builder, losing money because of the work stoppage, sued the city. The consequence of this tragedy was a new requirement that all tall building construction projects were required to place netting over any open areas to prevent the accidental loss of debris from the higher floors.\n\nThe architectural firm responsible for the building is Davis Brody Bond and was developed by William Zeckendorf.\n\n"}
{"id": "4076590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4076590", "title": "Charles W. Fisher", "text": "Charles W. Fisher\n\nCharles Wellington Fisher (August 4, 1866 – May 5, 1919) was a Canadian politician who served as the first Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta.\n\nBorn in Hyde Park, Ontario, Fisher came to Cochrane from Ontario in 1899, and became the town's leading merchant. In 1907 he married a niece of the Carling family (of Carling Brewery fame), and promised her that they would live in a castle. By way of fulfilling that promise, he built a mansion in Cochrane in 1908 (which became the Just Home Guest Ranch in 1931 and was donated to a Franciscan order in 1948).\n\nIn January 1903, Arthur Sifton, the Member of the Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories for Banff resigned to become territorial chief justice. In the ensuing by-election, held February 4, Fisher defeated H. J. Richardson to replace him. He served until the district left the Northwest Territories to become part of the new province of Alberta in 1905. He subsequently ran in Banff in Alberta's inaugural election. Though politics in the Northwest Territories had been conducted on a non-partisan basis, this was not the case in Alberta, and Fisher aligned himself with the Liberals. In the election, he faced Conservative Robert Brett, who had been Sifton's predecessor as Banff MLA from 1891 until 1899. He more than doubled Brett's vote count on his way to an easy victory.\n\nFisher was part of a Liberal majority of 23 seats in the 25 seat Legislative Assembly of Alberta, and was one of only seven members with previous legislative experience. In deference to this experience, and as a reward for having beaten Brett, considered a strong opponent, he was elected the first Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta on March 15, 1906. He was re-elected in each of the next three elections, in the new riding of Cochrane, and was re-elected Speaker after each of them. As Speaker, he presided over the tumultuous Alberta and Great Waterways Railway scandal, when he ruled future premier Charles Stewart out of order in his attempt to report a scandalous rumour about fellow Liberal John R. Boyle in the legislature.\n\nFisher died May 5, 1919, a victim of the 1918 flu pandemic. His death left his Cochrane seat vacant, and in the ensuing by-election the United Farmers of Alberta (UFA) ran a candidate, Alexander Moore, for the first time in their history. He won, and two years later the UFA won a majority government.\n\nCharles Fisher is buried in Calgary's Union Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "18551130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18551130", "title": "Citizen enterprise", "text": "Citizen enterprise\n\nThe term citizen enterprise started to be used in the United States in 2008 to describe businesses that practice corporate social responsibility (CSR).\n\nIn some countries, such as Papua New Guinea, the term is used to describe companies owned by citizens of that country, rather than by foreigners.\n\nIt should not be confused with social enterprise, which is a more complex notion involving origin, ownership and participation as well as objectives, activities and the use of profits.\n"}
{"id": "44730860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44730860", "title": "Companies by arms sales", "text": "Companies by arms sales\n\nThis is a list of the world's largest arms manufacturers and other military service companies, along with their countries of origin. The information is based on a list published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute for 2013. The list provided by the SIPRI excludes companies based in China. The numbers are in millions of US dollars.\n"}
{"id": "14345151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14345151", "title": "Corps of Military Accountants", "text": "Corps of Military Accountants\n\nThe Corps of Military Accountants was a short-lived corps of the British Army. It was formed in November 1919 and disbanded in July 1925. Its members handled financial matters, although matters relating to pay continued to be handled by the Royal Army Pay Corps.\n\nAll personnel serving as Military Accountant Officers and Military Accountant Clerks transferred to the new corps. On the disbandment of the corps most of its personnel who chose to stay in the Army either reverted to their previous regiments and corps or transferred to the RAPC.\n\nOfficers, who held a minimum rank of Captain and were mostly qualified accountants, held appointments depending on rank, although they continued to use their normal ranks in day-to-day military life.\n\n\nWarrant Officers and Other Ranks held appointments as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "17960985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17960985", "title": "Daniel Pennock Democracy School", "text": "Daniel Pennock Democracy School\n\nThe Daniel Pennock Democracy School teaches citizens and activists how to use democratic processes through people’s constitutional rights to confront corporate wrongdoing (such as by opposing toxic dumps, quarries, factory farms, etc.). In addition it explores the limits of conventional regulatory organizing and offers a new organizing model that helps citizens confront the usurpation by corporations of the rights of communities, people, and the earth.\n\nIt is dedicated to the memory of Daniel Pennock, a 17-year-old boy from Berks County, Pennsylvania, who died in 1995 after being exposed involuntarily to land applied sewage sludge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54932362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54932362", "title": "Des Schonegevel", "text": "Des Schonegevel\n\nDesmond John Schonegevel (born 9 October 1934) is a former cricketer who played 100 matches of first-class cricket in South Africa between 1954 and 1977.\n\nA solid middle-order batsman and off-spin bowler, Des Schonegevel made his first-class debut for Orange Free State in the 1954-55 season and played regularly for Orange Free State until the end of the 1964-65 season. His highest score for Orange Free State was 151 against Border in 1963-64, made in a little over six hours, and his best figures were 6 for 103 against Griqualand West in 1958-59. He captained Orange Free State from 1962-63 to 1964-65. Against Transvaal B in 1959-60 he scored 115, adding 280 for the third wicket with his captain, Clive Richardson, and setting a Currie Cup third-wicket record.\n\nHe moved to Kimberley in 1965 and played for Griqualand West from 1965-66 until 1975-76, captaining them in 1968-69. In his third match for Griqualand West he top-scored in each innings with 79 not out and 138 not out against Natal B; in the second innings he and the number 11 batsman put on an unbroken partnership of 87 to avoid defeat.\n\nIn 1966-67 his 112 against Orange Free State helped Griqualand West achieve their first victory since 1959-60. Against the Australians in 1969-70 he top-scored in each innings, scoring 49 and 85, defying the Australian spin bowlers \"with dour concentration\", but this time Griqualand West lost by an innings.\n\nHis highest score for Griqualand West was 138 not out against Natal B, as above, and his best bowling figures were 6 for 29 against Border in 1967-68.\n\nHe co-founded Desnics Planet Sport, a sporting goods business, in Kimberley in the 1960s, and continued to manage or co-manage the business until his retirement.\n\n"}
{"id": "48876200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48876200", "title": "Digital Invoice Customs Exchange (DICE)", "text": "Digital Invoice Customs Exchange (DICE)\n\nThe Digital Invoice Customs Exchange (DICE) is a revenue protection idea developed to prevent tax evasion methods such as sales suppression in domestic trade and missing trader fraud, transfer pricing in cross-border trade. As such, the implementation of this idea enables Revenue Authority to have advance notice of every commercial transaction.\n\nDefinition of the term \"DICE\" is:\n\nA technology-intensive tax compliance regimen for VAT/GST that utilizes invoice encryption to safeguard transactional data exchanged between seller and buyer in both domestic and import/export contexts while simultaneously notifying concerned jurisdictions of the transaction details.\n\nA seller produces digital invoice containing minimum requirements as follows:\n\nSuch prepared invoice, along with proper authentication of the seller, is uploaded to the Revenue Authority server (seller's jurisdiction) using DICE protocol for safekeeping and signature processing. Based on the information provided by the seller, system will apply verifiable electronic signature and send it back in the same manner as it was received. Seller will include electronic signature received in return to finalize invoice before dispatching it to customer who may verify the content of the invoice at any time by checking the signature using Revenue Authority's or DICE's web portal.\n\nIn case customer is registered outside of the seller's jurisdiction, before signing the invoice Revenue Authority will provide notice to the other jurisdiction announcing the customer's identity and content of the invoice using DICE protocol. Given the fact that DICE is being used in another jurisdiction (meaning there is an agreement between two jurisdictions to use DICE protocol and exchange digital keys for the purpose of secure communication), the received information will be processed to acknowledge positively that customer is registered in accordance with the applicable Laws, thus the transaction is considered legal. If customer is not registered in the database of the receiving jurisdiction, invoice will not be completed with valid electronic signature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41595751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41595751", "title": "Diário Económico", "text": "Diário Económico\n\nDiário Económico was a print Portuguese business newspaper based in Lisbon, Portugal. On 18 March 2016 the paper published the last print edition and went on online.\n\n\"Diário Económico\", based in Lisbon, was first published on 30 October 1989 and is published on weekdays. The publisher and owner of the paper, which is one of the leading reference on daily economics and finance in Portugal, was the holding Económica. It was part of Media Capital.\n\nThe current owner and publisher of \"Diário Económico\" is Ongoing Media. The company has other business newspapers: \"Semanário Económico\", currently \"Weekend Económico\", in Portugal and \"Brasil Econômico\" in Brazil which was established in October 2009.\n\n\"Diário Económico\" was published in tabloid format. Until 2009 Martim Avillez Figueiredo, editor-in-chief of \"i\", served as the editor-in-chief of the paper.\n\n\"Diário Económico\" offered a monthly supplement, namely \"Fora de Série\", which includes diverse economic and social topics and special supplements on an irregular basis on various subjects. In 2012, the paper launched a TV channel, Económico TV.\n\nOn 18 March 2016 the last print edition of \"Diário Económico\" appeared and the paper went on online.\n\nIn 1995 \"Diário Económico\" had a circulation of 5,566 copies. It was 7,882 copies in 1996, 9,352 copies in 1997, and 11,922 copies in 1998. In 1999 the paper had a circulation of 11,540 copies and in 2000 it was 12,843 copies. Its circulation was 11,000 copies both in 2003 and 2004.\n\nThe circulation of \"Diário Económico\" was 12,000 copies in 2007. It rose to 15,222 copies in 2009 and to 16,088 copies in 2010. Its 2011 circulation was 15,552 copies. The paper had a circulation of 13,754 copies in 2012. The 2013 circulation of the paper was 15,000 copies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "148804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148804", "title": "Dodi Fayed", "text": "Dodi Fayed\n\nEmad El-Din Mohamed Abdel Mena'em Fayed (; , 15 April 1955 – 31 August 1997), better known as Dodi Fayed ( ), was the son of Egyptian billionaire Mohamed El Fayed. He died in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997, with Diana, Princess of Wales.\n\nFayed was born in Alexandria, Egypt and was the eldest son of the Egyptian billionaire Mohamed Al-Fayed, former owner of Harrods department store. He was the half-brother of Omar, Camilla, Karim and Jasmine Al-Fayed. Dodi's popular father was also the former owner of Fulham Football Club and the Hôtel Ritz Paris. Dodi's mother was the Saudi Arabian author Samira Khashoggi; her father was Dr Muhammad Khashoggi, who was of Turkish descent, and brother to the billionaire arms dealer Adnan Khashoggi. Fayed was a student at Collège Saint Marc before attending the Institut Le Rosey in Switzerland. He also briefly attended Sandhurst. After completing his education, he served as an attaché at the United Arab Emirates Embassy in London.\n\nFayed was the executive producer of the films \"Chariots of Fire\", \"Breaking Glass\", \"F/X\", \"F/X2\", \"Hook\", and \"The Scarlet Letter\". He also served as the executive creative consultant for the \"\" television series. Fayed also worked for his father on Harrods' marketing.\n\nIn 1986, Fayed married model Suzanne Gregard, but the couple divorced after eight months of marriage.\n\nIn July 1997, Fayed became romantically involved with Diana, Princess of Wales. Earlier that summer, Fayed had become engaged to an American model, Kelly Fisher, and had bought a house in Malibu, California, for himself and Fisher with money from his father. Fisher subsequently claimed Fayed had jilted her for Diana and announced that she was filing a breach of contract suit against him, claiming that he had \"led her emotionally all the way up to the altar and abandoned her when they were almost there. He threw her love away in a callous way with no regard for her whatsoever\". She dropped the lawsuit shortly after Fayed's death.\n\nIn the early-morning hours of 31 August 1997, Diana and Fayed died in a car crash in the Pont de l'Alma underpass, in Paris. They had stopped in Paris \"en route\" to London, after having spent nine days together on holiday in the French and Italian Rivieras aboard his family's yacht, the \"Jonikal\". Neither Fayed nor Diana were wearing their seat belt.\n\nInvestigations by French and British police concluded that their chauffeur, Henri Paul, was driving under the influence of alcohol and prescription drugs; paparazzi chasing the couple are also believed to have contributed to the accident. Fayed's father, Mohamed Al-Fayed, has claimed that the couple were executed by MI6 agents. Fayed's former spokesman, Michael Cole, has claimed that the couple had become engaged before their deaths.\nFayed was originally interred in Brookwood Cemetery near Woking, Surrey, but was disinterred and re-interred on the grounds of the Fayed estate in Oxted, Surrey in October 1997.\n\nFayed's father has erected two memorials to his son and Diana at Harrods. The first, unveiled on 12 April 1998, consists of photos of the two behind a pyramid-shaped display that holds a wine glass still smudged with lipstick from Diana's last dinner, as well as a ring Fayed purchased the day before they died. The second, unveiled in 2005 and titled \"Innocent Victims\", is a 3-metre-high bronze statue of the two dancing on a beach, beneath the wings of an albatross. The memorials were designed by 80-year-old Bill Mitchell, a close friend of Dodi's father and architect for Harrods for more than 40 years. In January 2018, it was announced that the statue would be returned to the Al-Fayed family.\n"}
{"id": "28464047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28464047", "title": "Einar Grill Fasting", "text": "Einar Grill Fasting\n\nEinar Grill Fasting (25 October 1883 – 21 April 1958) was a Norwegian businessperson and Nazi politician.\n\nIn 1933 he co-founded the local branch of the Norwegian Fascist party Nasjonal Samling in Hamar. He became the city leader (Führer), whereas townsman Wilhelm Frimann Koren Christie became county leader. Compared to elsewhere in Norway, the party was relatively successful in Hamar, winning two city council seats in its first election outing. Fasting also chaired the local sports club Hamar IL from 1930 to 1934.\n\nOn 9 April 1940 Norway was invaded by Nazi Germany. During the subsequent occupation, Fasting was installed by the Germans as mayor of Hamar on 1 January 1941. In July 1941 he was installed as chairman of Hamar, Vang og Furnes Kommunale Kraftselskap.\n\nAfter the Second World War, Fasting was removed from his positions, and was arrested in May 1945. In the post-war Norwegian legal purge he was tried for treason, and in Hamar City Court he was sentenced to nine years of prison in October 1946. His case was finally decided in the Supreme Court of Norway in December 1948, where his sentence was reduced to seven years. He died in 1958.\n"}
{"id": "3517241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3517241", "title": "European Research Center for Information Systems", "text": "European Research Center for Information Systems\n\nThe European Research Center for Information Systems (ERCIS) was founded in 2004 at the University of Münster in Münster, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. The objective of ERCIS is connecting research in Information systems with Business, Computer Science, Communication Sciences, Law, Management and Mathematics. The ERCIS consists of leading national and international universities and companies in the field of Information Systems.\n\nAssociated members of the European Research Center for Information Systems are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37863001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37863001", "title": "Ezroy Millwood", "text": "Ezroy Millwood\n\nEzroy Millwood (1942 – 1 December 2012), was president of Jamaica's National Transport Cooperative Society (NTCS). He sued the government for breach of its franchise agreement and was awarded more than $1.8 billion in damages. In June 2012, the Court of Appeal granted the government the go-ahead to challenge the award before the British Privy Council. He was later found dead at his home in St Andrew, near Kingston.\n"}
{"id": "38171599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38171599", "title": "FAO Major Fishing Areas", "text": "FAO Major Fishing Areas\n\nThe FAO Major Fishing Areas are areas in the world in what the Food and Agriculture Organization has divided the fishery. This definition is required for the statistical data-gathering, the management of fisheries and jurisdictional purposes. The boundaries of the areas were determined on various considerations with consulting international fishery agencies.\n\nThe defined areas are:\n"}
{"id": "34615657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34615657", "title": "Frederick Giles Gibbs", "text": "Frederick Giles Gibbs\n\nFrederick Giles Gibbs (31 October 1866–16 January 1953) was a New Zealand school principal, educationalist, businessman, naturalist and community leader. He was born in London, London, England on 31 October 1866.\n\nGibbs was educated at Nelson College from 1879 to 1887. He completed his BA at Canterbury College in 1889 and graduated MA with first-class honours in 1890.\n"}
{"id": "54298504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54298504", "title": "Ghost restaurant", "text": "Ghost restaurant\n\nA ghost restaurant (also known as a delivery-only restaurant or online-only restaurant) is a food service business that serves customers exclusively through online food delivery. Without the need to interact with customers directly on the premises, ghost restaurants can offset the high cost of a delivery system with cheaper real estate and operations. \n\nAlthough restaurants typically earn more from customers who dine at the restaurant, due to the expense of operating a delivery service or the fees charged by third party delivery companies like Grubhub and Caviar, ghost restaurants have significantly lower overhead. Operating a dining room, with the real estate it requires, staff, amenities, insurance, and other expenses, is a significant cost. Even restaurants with considerable to-go business traditionally dedicate the majority of their space to seating. As visibility, curb appeal, foot traffic, and accessibility are not concerns, the kitchen can be housed in an inexpensive location that would not typically be considered desirable for a restaurant.\n\nA single company may operate several ghost restaurants, and a single location's kitchen and staff can function as multiple branded restaurants. Without a brick-and-mortar location to renovate, companies can also try out new brands and cuisines with little effort, to appeal to changing tastes and trends.\n\nMost of the restaurants utilize existing delivery services. For example, Green Summit, which owns several ghost restaurants in New York City and partners with Grubhub. Some companies incorporate their own delivery system into the business model, like the New York-based company Maple. Maple, which is backed by restaurateur David Chang, is able to orient its business around productivity in terms of meals per hour per kitchen — a metric more typical of fast food restaurants.\n\nSeveral 2015 news articles exposed a sub-segment of operations they termed \"ghost restaurants\", which operate as unregulated, unlicensed standalone entities or as fronts for restaurants that might or might not have health code violations.\n"}
{"id": "49575544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49575544", "title": "H. A. Frost", "text": "H. A. Frost\n\nHenry Adolph Frost (26 June 1844 – 21 July 1909) was a German-born saddler and businessman known for his association with the company which eventually produced the Holden automobile. His name may have been originally Heinrich Friedrich Adolphe Frost, but he evidently preferred \"Adolph Frost\".\n\nAdolph was born in Hamburg, Germany the only son of Johann Joachim Domenicus ( John ) Frost ( 31 MAR 1813 - 14 Dec 1865) and his wife Catharina Maria Louisa Juncken (March 1821 – 11 February 1905), who emigrated to South Australia on the \"Steinwaerder\" (\"Steinwärder\") from Hamburg, arriving on the 12th January 1849.\n\nThey settled at Lyndoch, and on completion of his schooling learned the skills of the saddler, after which he followed his trade at Rhynie, then around 1869 to Port Wakefield then Yorketown, where he ran a lucrative business, and for a time served as mayor.\nAround 1879 he moved to Adelaide to take a position with J. A. Holden, who on 1 May 1884 took him on as partner in J. A. Holden & Co., which was in a precarious position financially. In August 1885 J. A. Holden sold to his son H. J. Holden and H. A. Frost his interest in the retail arm of the company, which in November 1885 became Holden & Frost. He sold the wholesale business and his Kensington Park mansion with its extensive grounds. Under the terms of the voluntary liquidation the company continued to operate in the premises at 100 Grenfell Street.\n\nUnder the new management the company progressed from the world of saddles and harness to motor vehicle bodies and upholstery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10729401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10729401", "title": "Heatsetting", "text": "Heatsetting\n\nHeat setting is a term used in the textile industry to describe a thermal process taking place mostly in either a steam atmosphere or a dry heat environment. The effect of the process gives fibers, yarns or fabric dimensional stability and, very often, other desirable attributes like higher volume, wrinkle resistance or temperature resistance. Very often, heat setting is also used to improve attributes for subsequent processes. Yarns tend to have increased torquing just after spinning, cabling or twisting. Heat setting can influence or even eliminate this tendency to undesirable torquing. At the winding, twisting, weaving, tufting and knitting processes, an increased tendency to torquing can cause difficulties in processing the yarn. When using heat setting for carpet yarns, desirable results include not only the diminishing of torquing but also the stabilization or fixing of the fiber thread. Both twist stabilization and stabilization of frieze effect are results of the heat setting process. Heat setting benefits staple yarns as well as bulked continuous filament (BCF) yarns. Heat setting often causes synthetic fibers to gain volume as well. This volume growth is commonly described as \"bulk development\". All processes using temperature and/or moisture to give textiles one of the above-mentioned attributes are known as heat setting. The term \"thermal fixation\" is used less frequently. In the carpet industry, the process is exclusively called \"heat setting\".\n\nThe crinkle tendency is due to the technological conditions of the spun yarn production\nand the physical fiber properties. Above all, the \"technological conditions of the\nspun yarn production\" means the turning moment of the thread. A twisted thread will always\ntry to twist when it hangs freely between two fixed points in the form of a loop. In doing this, it gives up a part of its original twist which becomes spirals whose twisting direction is opposite to the original twist direction. This development of twist in the opposite direction occurs as the twisted yarn attempts to reach equilibrium.\nTwisting in the opposite direction is due to the tensions resulting from the yarn twisting that Mueller indicated in the diagram of tension and pressure. The total tension acting against the twisting is increased in relation to increased\ntwisting due to the increasing tension and pressure of the bundle of fibres in the yarn. It may become so strong that the thread core buckles when it can no longer withstand the compressive strains. The yarn curls, meaning that the yarn tries to reach a state of equilibrium in which twists in the opposite direction from the original twist direction balance the yarn's torque.These twists are also called negative twists. In this state of equilibrium, the inner torsional tensions cancel each other out. The thread always buckles at a spot where the cross section is small due to the unevenness of the thread. During the spinning process this spot took up more twists and is therefore subjected to higher inner tensions, which ultimately break the thread core. Although thicker yarns are less twisted than fine ones, the inner tension rises opposite to the yarn size. Smaller yarn is more weakened by steaming. Further positive aspects of steaming are the reduction of curling and, at the same time, the setting of the physical properties of closeness and extension imparted to the yarn by twisting.\n\nThere are completely different behaviors depending on the kind of yarn material. Much is known about the steaming of woolen yarns but more research is needed on the steaming behaviour of artificial fibers and cotton.\n\nAs soon as steam enters, the yarns quantity of moisture rises at once, caused by the heating of the yarn and by steam condensation. According to Speakmann the following phenomena can be seen in the stretched woolen fiber: The cystine side chains are subjected to a hydrolysis at the sulphur bridge, where cystine is dissolved into cysteine and a not yet isolated sulphonic acid.\n\nAn ionization can be seen at the bridges that were produced from salt liberation. Due to the increase of temperature in the fibers during steaming an oscillation of the molecules is produced which leads to the bursting of the hydrogen bridges; now residual valencies are set free which are able to saturate with the dipole water. The water then acts like a lubrication between the individual molecules. Thus the bonds of the main chains between each other are dissolved by the side chains, the individual polypeptide chains can shift against each other and the tensions find their equilibrium (see illustration 4). When the steaming of the yarn is continued, new side chains are formed between the individual components of the main chains. When finally the yarn is dried, i.e. the moisture balance occurring within the yarn, salt is liberated again and hydrogen bridges are formed. Now the individual polypeptide chains can no longer be shifted against each other and the fibers regained their former closeness, however without having remarkable tensions inside.\n\nThe yarn or doubled yarn twist is set. Of course, the morphological structure of the fibers must be considered when equalizing the tensions by steaming. Since the woolen fiber very quickly gets the temperature for breaking up the hydrogen bridges and the steam for hydrolysing the cystine bridges, a relatively quick twist modification is possible which roughly corresponds to the values of an autoclave moderated yarn; however, the steaming quality of the Steamatic steaming process is much better with reference to the evenness of moisture absorption.\n\nSynthetic fibers can be divided up into two fiber domains, the crystalline (organized) domain and the amorphous (unorganized) domain. In crystalline domains physical forces of attraction are acting between the closely parallel lines of polymers. These forces acting transversely to the fiber axis make up the closeness of a fiber. If tension is applied to the fiber, these forces hinder the fiber from breaking.\n\nIn contrast, the amorphous fiber domains act like links of the fibers. They are responsible for the flexional strength of the fibers. Additionally, the amorphous fiber domains make it possible for water or dye to enter.\n\nDuring steaming, the heating of the fiber causes its molecules to start oscillating. The increase of oscillation that can be influenced by the degree and the period of heating dissolves the electric bond forces in the fiber; at first in the amorphous domains, later in the crystalline ones and at last in the polymers. As with wool, the tensions brought in by spinning are set free. During drying or cooling of the fiber, the binding forces are rebuilt without having tensions in the inner part.\n\nThe problem of synthetic fibers is that the reduction of the binding forces only takes place between the so-called deformation point (start of changing the firm solidified – amorphous fiber domains into a visco-elastic – easily deformable state) and the distortion point (the crystalline fiber domains change into a visco-elastic state, too) which is in a relatively high temperature range.\n\nThis is also an explanation for the fact that wool mixed with synthetic fibers is more difficult to set than pure wool. Setting synthetic fibers is only possible beyond a temperature range of 85 to 95 °C. In contrast, pure wool can set very well at these temperatures.\n\nIn in-line steaming, cotton plays a more or less subordinate role. The exact physical or chemical process in the fiber are not well known.\n\nThe quality of cut pile carpets is improved significantly by a reduction of inner tensions in the yarn. This essential benefit results from the effects of steaming and heatsetting.\n\nCarpet styles are divided into two basic types. These types are loop pile carpets and cut pile carpets. Especially for cut-pile and its variations (Saxony, shag, frieze) the heat setting process is of highest importance.\n\nUsually, when yarn is cut, the ends fray similar to the way the ends of a braid or rope would fray when they are cut and a kind of a brush forms. This fraying must be avoided in cut-pile carpets by all means. A cut pile carpet with frayed yarn ends would have a poor appearance, a shorter life cycle and ergonomic disadvantages for the \"walker\" as scientific research has proven. The carpet is less elastic and doesn't absorb the steps of the user as well as a heat set carpet would. A carpet manufactured from heat set yarn is more attractive, durable and comfortable for the user. The added value of heatset carpet is significant. Normally a heat set carpet can be identified by its grainy structure, which is called \"pinpoint tip definition\" in the industry. The appearance of the cut pile ends is similar to pin points.\n\nSeveral different heat setting processes are known in the textile industry. The most important are presented here.\n\nThe oldest heat setting process is autoclave heat setting. Mostly, it is a discontinuous process.Autoclave installations use vacuum and/or pressure. Textile material is brought into the autoclave either on bobbins, in skeins or loose in a container. As nearly all autoclaves are exposed to certain pressures they are usually built in cylindrical shape and mounted horizontally. Most commonly, autoclaves are loaded and unloaded from the end of the cylinder but some may be loaded from one end and unloaded from the other end. Autoclaves mounted vertically exist but are less common.\nThey are mostly used for the synthetic yarns like polyester, polyethylene, poly propylene and nylons.\n\nFor automation in link spinning/winding there is the so-called \"in-line steamer\". The first known process of this type is the Steamatic process by Resch. In this case the heat setting process happens in between the ring spinning and the winding machines. As soon as the ring spinning frame has finished spinning, the loaded bobbins are transported into the in-line steamer. Those bobbins are steamed there with a vacuum method and dried again within seconds. After steaming and drying, the bobbins are transported on to the winding machine where they are re-wound onto a cross-wound package.\n\nThe carpet industry currently utilizes two continuous processes, the Power-Heat-Set process and the TVP process which was derived from the autoclave technology.\n\nThe Power-Heat-Set process, formerly known as Suessen process, was developed in the beginning of the 1970s and was the first continuous heat setting system worldwide. The process itself was revolutionary in that it was the first system not operated with saturated steam and pressure, but with a superheated steam/airmix at atmospheric pressure. Using this innovative technology, completely new carpet collections were created. In the Power-Heat-Set process, the yarns and filaments oxidize slightly on the surface due to the existing oxygen in the surrounding atmosphere and the higher temperatures. This capillary oxide film causes the complete carpet later to be more stain resistant. Dirt particles adhere less to the fibers.\n\nIn addition to the Power-Heat-Set technology there is the SUPERBA TVP3 process which is also a continuous process. In the TVP3 process yarn is placed on a conveyor belt and inserted through a lock into a pressure tunnel that could be up to 15 m long. Inside the tunnel, it undergoes a heat setting process with saturated steam. At the end of the tunnel the yarn is taken out through a second lock. The yarn which is still hot and moist is dried and cooled after heat setting and fed to the winding process. Up to 72 yarn ends can be processed at the same time.\n\nIn the Power-Heat-Set process yarn is heat set with superheated steam in an open system at atmospheric pressure. All the materials normally used in the carpet industry such as polyamide 6, polyamide 6.6, polypropylene, Acrylic, PET, polyester and wool can be processed.\n\nThe unprocessed yarn is provided on packages in a creel (up to 72 packages). At a speed of up to 700 m/min, the yarn is pulled off the packages and entered into the heat setting process. There are two basic ways of transportation of the yarn through the process. One way is to place the yarn in coils or a \"figure 8 pattern on a belt or to wrap it onto ropes arranged as a polygon in order to convey it through the process. With Frieze yarns only belt conveying is utilized. Frieze is produced by a special stuffer box, the so-called Twinroll-Box (TRB).\nThe heat setting process takes place at temperatures between 110 °C and 200 °C in a steam-air-mix. After heat setting, the yarn is cooled and wound onto packages again at the winder. In general a heat setting machine consists of six lines at eight ends (fibers) each. A daily production of up to 10.5 tons is possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1661648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1661648", "title": "Irénée du Pont", "text": "Irénée du Pont\n\nIrénée du Pont I (December 21, 1876 – December 19, 1963) was a U.S. businessman, former president of the DuPont company and head of the Du Pont trust.\n\nHe was born on December 21, 1876, in New Castle, Delaware. He was a descendant of Eleuthère Irénée du Pont. He graduated from Andover Academy in 1894 and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1897. While at MIT, he was a member of the Phi Beta Epsilon fraternity, where he was one of the first brothers, in the course of his lifetime, contributing over $4,000,000.\n\nHe worked for Fenn's Manufacturing Contracting Company for a number of years before he joined DuPont. He was president of DuPont from 1919 to 1925. He oversaw DuPont at a time when eight workers were fatally poisoned with tetraethyl lead while he issued statements about there being \"slight difficulties\". He retired from the board of directors of DuPont in 1958.\n\nHe built a mansion in Varadero, Cuba, which he named \"Xanadu\". In 1957, \"Fortune\" estimated his wealth at between $200 million and $400 million, making him one of the two richest members of the Du Pont family at that time, and one of the twenty richest Americans (see Wealthiest Americans (1957)). In the 1930s, he was a proponent of eugenics.\n\nHe died on December 19, 1963, in Wilmington, Delaware.\n\n"}
{"id": "1980146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1980146", "title": "Jesoni Vitusagavulu", "text": "Jesoni Vitusagavulu\n\nJesoni Vitusagavulu is a Fijian businessman and diplomat, who was appointed as Fiji's fifth Fijian Ambassador to the United States on 26 May 2005, succeeding Anare Jale. He is also accredited as Ambassador to Cuba and Mexico, and High Commissioner to Canada. He presented his credentials to President George W. Bush on 3 October 2005, and to Governor-General Michaëlle Jean of Canada on 13 June 2006.\n\nThe Military-backed regime which took power in the military coup of 5 December 2006 dismissed Vitusagavulu from office in 2007.\n\nVitusagavulu is a native of Kadavu Island. After graduating from the University of the South Pacific with a Bachelor's degree in economics and politics, he completed a Master of Philosophy in development studies from the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom. He also received a diploma in airline management from the University of Bar Ilan in Israel, and a graduate certificate in management from the Australian Graduate School of Management of the University of New South Wales.\n\nVitusagavulu was the managing director of Toptier Management, a management consultancy and investment company which he founded in 2003, specializing in assisting local and foreign investors in tourism, information technology, and audio-visual industries. He was Manager for Special Projects with the Fiji Development Bank from 1978 to 1990, when he assumed a senior management position in Air Pacific, which he held till 1996, when he became Chief Executive of the Fiji Trade and Investment Bureau, a position he held until 2003. Previously, he had served on a number of boards, including as chairman of the Agricultural Marketing Authority, Food Processors Limited, and the Kontiki Growth Fund. He has also been a director of the Fijian Trust Fund Board, Kadavu Holdings Limited, and the Kadavu Development Company.\n\nHe also lectured for the MBA course at the University of the South Pacific.\n\nVitusagavulu is known to have been one of former Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase's closest associates.\n\nVitusagavulu is married to Silina. They have three daughters - Makenesi, Asinate and Leilani.\n\n"}
{"id": "19493753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19493753", "title": "Jürg Marquard", "text": "Jürg Marquard\n\nJürg Marquard (born 13 July 1945 in Zürich) is a Swiss publisher. He attended school in Zürich, where he became involved in journalism at a young age. Having done his leaving certificate (Matura) at the “Kantonsschule” for Economics in Zürich, he launched the youth magazine “POP” with SFR 2'000., which he borrowed from school friends. This founded the basis of his journalistic and entrepreneurial career.\n\nAt that time Jürg Marquard already sensed that the flourishing pop and rock culture was not just a fly-by-night phenomenon, but also a strong youth movement with revolutionary potential. He sensed this movement would embrace a large spectrum beyond the music and entertainment industry, such as fashion, lifestyle, culture and that it would even penetrate politics.\n\nAt the same time as putting his magazine “POP” on the map, Jürg Marquard was also working as a radio and TV presenter, specialising in pop music. He was the first presenter of the Radio-Hit-Parade to achieve great popularity in Switzerland.\n\nAfter the eventful early days, in which Jürg Marquard himself edited the magazine with a lot a passion, the magazine became a commercial success. After various mergers with other German youth magazines, POP became POP/ROCKY, which was Germany's second largest youth magazine for many years. POP/ROCKY maintained this status for decades until it was eventually merged with POPCORN in 1998. POPCORN was one of Marquard Media’s international umbrella brands.\n\nHis big breakthrough in the German-speaking magazine market was achieved with the takeover of COSMOPOLITAN in 1981. Before then the German version of COSMOPOLITAN had been dragging its feet without any noticeable success. With radical editorial changes he turned COSMOPOLITAN into a huge success in less than a year. COSMOPOLITAN led the way for a new type of women's magazine. When taking over COSMOPOLITAN on October 14, 1981, Jürg Marquard said: \"I believe in the future of this brand because recent years have brought about deep changes with regards to the self-image and the role behaviour of women. COSMOPOLITAN is the journalistic answer to these changes. The success is therefore pre-determined.\" COSMOPOLITAN subsequently became the most successful premium women’s magazine in the German-speaking market and therefore the basis for the expansion of the premium lifestyle segment of the Marquard Media Group.\n\nIn 1988 Jürg Marquard launched the Hungarian versions of POPCORN and MÄDCHEN (Girl). With these launches he became the first western publisher of periodical magazines behind the then still existing “Iron Curtain”. The big success as well as the positive perspectives after the political change made Jürg Marquard invest dynamically in Central European markets and expand his activities – including the acquisition of daily newspapers in Hungary and Poland, as well as launching new magazines. In 1999, during the process of a strategic re-orientation, Jürg Marquard focused his activities on the premium magazine segment and therefore streamlined his portfolio: The youth and music titles were sold to Axel Springer, the Hungarian newspapers to Ringier and the Polish printing house to Baring Private Equity Partners. Following this phase of consolidation Marquard Media again expanded by launching various new magazines as well as taking over and integrating VIPress (PLAYBOY und VOYAGE) in Poland. In summer 2005, Marquard Media with a successful public offer, secured a 91,4% stake in Computec Media AG, a stock exchange listed publisher of various consumer magazines in the area of Electronic Entertainment and Multi-Media.\n\nIn 2005 Jürg Marquard was the co-producer and protagonist of the TV show „Traumjob“, a licensed version of Donald Trumps „The Apprentice“. This was a top-rated show on Kanal 1 on Swiss television.\n\nIn 2012, Marquard Media published 41 magazines in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Hungary and Poland. It is currently active with license editions in many other countries. The ever-growing online business encompasses 25 websites in the German-speaking markets.\n\nIn Hungary, Marquard Media is the leading publisher of premium magazines in the women’s as well as the men’s segment with a wide-ranging portfolio: JOY, EVA, INSTYLE, SHAPE, JOY CELEBRITY, FITT MAMA, PLAYBOY, PLAYBOY EXCLUSIVE, CKM and DESIGN ROOM.\n\nMarquard Media continues to expand in the premium magazine segment in Poland. With CKM and PLAYBOY, it is the leading publisher in the men’s segment and also holds a top position in the women’s premium segment with COSMOPOLITAN, JOY, OLIVIA and SHAPE as well as with the travel magazine VOYAGE. Marquard Media is also successfully represented in the segment of weekly women’s magazines and true-stories magazines in Poland with PANI DOMU, CIENIE I BLASKI und SEKRETY SERCA.\n\nJürg Marquard plans to keep expanding his company. Further expansion is occurring via new launches, as well as further acquisitions.\n\nHis total shareholding in London FTSE listed Kea Petroleum is 29,033,253 ordinary shares representing 4.16% of the Company's current voting rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "30272184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30272184", "title": "Kohler strikes", "text": "Kohler strikes\n\nThe Kohler strikes at the Kohler Company, just west of Sheboygan, Wisconsin in 1934 and 1954 are landmarks in the history of both business and labor in the United States. Labor leaders have often cited the warfare at the giant plumbing supply company in their contention that workers need unions. Industrial leaders have pointed to the strikes as examples of union belligerence and indifference toward the true welfare of their employees.\n\nThe Kohler Company was founded in Sheboygan, Wisconsin in 1873, when John Michael Kohler II (1844–1900) took over his father-in-law's steel and iron factory. During the late 19th century it prospered as the producer of plumbing products and enamelware. In 1912, land around a new factory just west of Sheboygan became the Village of Kohler, Wisconsin. From 1905 until his death, John Michael's son Walter J. Kohler, Sr. (1875–1940) led the highly successful business. In the early 1920s, he built a family mansion, Riverbend, and was welcomed in high society in Chicago and elsewhere. In 1928, he became Governor of Wisconsin for a single term.\n\nIn the Great Depression, company profits plummeted. The American Federation of Labor turned its attention on Kohler in the spring of 1934, demanding that the AFL replace the company union, the Kohler Workers Association, which had been formed a year earlier, with an independent labor union. In June, AFL leaders called for a 62.5% wage increase and a 25% reduction in hours. Walter strongly opposed this bid for power and closed the plant. On July 16, a strike began.\n\nViolence quickly erupted and the entire Village was closed to traffic. Special deputies hired by the company clashed with pickets, and huge crowds began to assemble. On July 27, purportedly in response to vandalism against company property, the special deputies attacked with guns and tear gas. Two strikers named Lee Wakefield and Harry Englemann were killed, and 47 \"men, women and boys were wounded, gassed, and injured\". On July 29, in response to appeals by Walter and the local sheriff, 250 members of the National Guard arrived on the scene. Walter, who had been trapped in the main office building for 12 days, blamed the violence on outsiders and people with \"communistic affiliations.\"\n\nIn September, the National Labor Relations Board ruled against the Kohler Company and demanded secret, supervised elections at the plant to determine who would represent the workers, which the company union won. The Kohler victory was short-lived, however, for in 1935 the US Supreme Court declared the National Industrial Recovery Act unconstitutional. Congress soon, however, passed the Wagner Act, giving organized labor the right to organize and bargain collectively without employer interference. A majority of workers could now determine who would represent them; this \"union shop\" was the chief goal of the AFL. Still, the company union and the principle of \"open shop\" remained in effect at the Kohler Company until 1952, when the United Auto Workers (UAW) won an election.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Herbert V. Kohler, Sr. (1891–1968) gained control of the Kohler Company. He was a physically and mentally powerful man best known for his supreme self-confidence and iron will. He had played a key role in the strike of 1934 and was a staunch opponent of organized labor.\n\nThe United Auto Workers Local 833 was determined to organize Kohler employees, and it won a certified election in 1952. Herbert V. Kohler refused to grant union demands during contract negotiations, and a strike began on April 5, 1954. Some 2,800 of the Company's 3,300 employees joined the picket lines. The plant essentially ceased operations for two months. Herbert then resumed production with non-union labor. Six years of sporadic violence ensued between strikers and strike breakers. In time, the company would charge opponents with more than a thousand acts of vandalism. At one point, more than 300 people were arrested. Calls for a national boycott of Kohler products were vociferous and sometimes effective, and UAW provided $12 million to strikes over the years. Herbert resisted all efforts to compromise, even sharply rejecting a public appeal from his nephew, Governor Walter J. Kohler, Jr..\n\nIn 1960, the National Labor Relations Board decided against the Kohler Company, ruling that it had refused to bargain in good faith after the strike broke out. Herbert was ordered to reinstate 1,700 workers. It took lawsuits by both sides and two more years for management and labor to work out a contract. The bitter issue of compensation for strikers remained unresolved. In December 1965, the Kohler Company agreed to pay $3 million in back wages to some 1,400 former employees and hand over $1.5 million in pension-fund contributions. The union agreed to make no further charges stemming from the strike. The longest major strike in American history had ended.\n\nAfter Herbert's death, his son Herbert V. Kohler, Jr. (1939-) headed the family-owned company and took a more positive approach to labor relations. In 2002, for example, a five-year labor contract was signed. However, the long and often bloody struggle scarred thousands of lives throughout the Sheboygan-Kohler area and elsewhere for more than three decades.\nThe third strike, which occurred in 1983 and lasted 16 days, saw car windows smashed by demonstrators and two union members injured by a motorist who drove his vehicle through a picket line.\n\nOn November 15, 2015, 94% of the UAW Union Local 833 membership rejected the contract proposal and voted to strike. The strike, the first at the company since 1983, was declared after paper-ballot voting by an estimated 1,800 union members attending a meeting at Sheboygan South High School. At issue is a two-tiered employee system that was established in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "20064334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20064334", "title": "Leong On-kei", "text": "Leong On-kei\n\nAngela Leong On Kei () (born 23 March 1960) is a billionaire Macau businesswoman, a member of the Legislative Council of Macau, and the fourth wife of Stanley Ho.\n\nLeong was born in Guangzhou, China with family roots in Sanshui, Guangdong.\n\nAs of September 2017, she has an estimated net worth of US$4.1 billion.\n\nIn September 2017, she bought Aldwych House in London for about £250 million.\n\nShe met her husband-to-be, Stanley Ho, a Macau casino tycoon famous in the political and entertainment industries in Hong Kong and Macau, 40 years her senior, when she was a dance teacher in 1986. She became his fourth \"wife\" and has four children. She is the director of the Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, a casino company owned by her husband-to-be, Stanley Ho, since its founding and the managing director since December 2010, and the vice-chairman of the Macau Jockey Club.\n\nWith her new appointment as the chairperson of Po Leung Kuk, she has also become the supervisor of PLK Vicwood KT Chong Sixth Form College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2831466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2831466", "title": "Libertarian management", "text": "Libertarian management\n\nLibertarian management is participative and/or non-authoritarian self-management, which typically emphasizes repetition of proven successes, institutional learning, and earmarking funds to project investment. Libertarian consultants generally focus on management and system productivity, not worker productivity. Libertarian management exponents believe the method can be applied beyond industrial settings in areas such as alternate family arrangements, co-housing, and the cooperative movement.\n\nWhile no text on the subject exists, libertarian management has been highly influential as a guiding concept among American Libertarian founders of intentional communities and American management productivity consultants. Noted proponents of libertarian management include W. Edwards Deming and Peter Drucker. Many companies use the concepts and techniques of libertarian management, some of which are listed below.\n\nThe last three chairs of the United States Libertarian Party have worked as management consultants. Members of the Party often refer to organizations using Libertarian management as \"do-cracies\" - systems which emphasize decision-making by the initiators and implementers (i.e. doers) of a project. Typically, decisions in such a do-ocracy come about through a consensus process.\n\n"}
{"id": "3977672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3977672", "title": "List of company and product names derived from indigenous peoples", "text": "List of company and product names derived from indigenous peoples\n\nThe following is a list of company or product names derived from Indigenous peoples, excluding geographic names.\n\n\nDodge Dakota\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45194138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45194138", "title": "Luo Jye", "text": "Luo Jye\n\nLuo Jye (; born 1925) is a Taiwanese billionaire, founder of Cheng Shin Rubber, the world's ninth largest tire manufacturer.\n\nLuo Jye was born in 1925.\n\nLuo Jye founded Cheng Shin Rubber in 1967. In January 2015, passed control of Cheng Shin to his son, Lo Tsai-Jen.\n\nAccording to Forbes, Luo Jye has a net worth of $4.2 billion, as of January 2015.\n\nHe is married with four children and lives in Dacun, Changhua, Taiwan.\n"}
{"id": "6729767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6729767", "title": "MUFG Union Bank", "text": "MUFG Union Bank\n\nMUFG Union Bank (stylized as UnionBank) is an American full-service bank with 398 branches in California, Washington and Oregon which is wholly owned by MUFG Bank.\nThe bank, formerly known as \"Union Bank of California, N.A.,\" has operations in California, Washington and also has commercial branches in Dallas, Houston, New York City and Chicago, as well as two international offices. Headquartered in New York City, MUFG Union Bank, N.A. is a subsidiary of holding company MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation and a member of the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group ().\n\nAs of December 31, 2014, MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation had $113.7 billion (USD) in assets and the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group had total assets of approximately $2.3 trillion (USD). Its foundation is built on five lineages; three originate in California and two in Japan.\n\nIn 1914, Kaspare Cohn founded Kaspare Cohn Commercial & Savings Bank in Los Angeles. It was renamed Union Bank & Trust Company of Los Angeles in 1918. In 1979, Union Bank was purchased by Standard Chartered. Meanwhile, the Bank of Tokyo established the Bank of Tokyo California in 1953 in San Francisco. In 1975, Bank of Tokyo California purchased San Diego's Southern California First National Bank, shortening its name to California First. Four years later Bank of Tokyo California, via California First, took over Union Bank and adopted its name. \n\nIn May 1996, Mitsubishi Bank and the Bank of Tokyo merged in Japan. In San Francisco, the Bank of California and Union Bank consolidated into UnionBanCal Corporation, a bank holding company, and its primary subsidiary Union Bank of California, N.A. With the merger, Union Bank could now trace its history back to the founding of the Bank of California 132 years before. In 1999, UnionBanCal Corporation became a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:UB).\n\nOn October 19, 2004, the Federal Reserve Board announced that Union Bank had entered into a written agreement to avoid criminal prosecution for money-laundering. Three years later, Union Bank was again accused of money-laundering and in September, 2007, the Department of Justice and the Treasury Department announced that Union Bank had agreed to pay $31.6 million in penalties and forfeitures to settle government claims that it had been implicated in an elaborate drug money laundering scheme involving Mexican exchange houses known as casas de cambio.\n\nIn August 2008, Mitsubishi UFJ offered to buy the 35 percent of Union Bank it did not already own, which Union Bank accepted.\nOn November 4, 2008, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU), a wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG), announced that BTMU had successfully acquired all of the outstanding shares of UnionBanCal Corporation.\n\nIn 2014, MUFG integrated the U.S. operations of its subsidiary The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (BTMU) with those of San Francisco-based Union Bank, N.A.\n\nIn April 2018, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (BTMU) was renamed to MUFG Bank, Ltd.\n\n\nIn 2009, Union Bank opened a branch in Texas, with plans to expand.\n\nOn April 30, 2010, Union Bank, N.A., acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Everett, Washington-based Frontier Bank in a purchase and assumption agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Twelve officers and corporate directors of Frontier Bank are facing a $46 million damage lawsuit filed by the FDIC.\n\nAlso in April, Union Bank acquired the assets of Tamalpais Bank in Marin County, including seven branches. Federal regulators sold Tamalpais' assets to Union Bank, which rebranded all the acquired branches.\n\nIn 2012, Union Bank announced its acquisition of Pacific Capital Bancorp, which operated under the name Santa Barbara Bank & Trust, for $1.5 billion.\nIn 2013, Union Bank completed the acquisition of First Bank Association Bank Services, which provides a full range of banking services to homeowners associations and community management companies. The acquisition brought to Union Bank approximately $550 million in deposits.\n\nPurePoint Financial, the savings only division of MUFG Union Bank, offers high interest rates on savings accounts and certificates of deposit.\n\nUnion Bank's board of directors approves the bank's Community Service Action Plan (CSAP), which is used to ensure the bank's compliance with Community Reinvestment Act requirements. The CSAP targets seven key areas for support and services: affordable housing, banking services, community outreach, corporate contributions, low-income consumer loans, small business loans and assistance, and supplier diversity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59100506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59100506", "title": "Michael Tojner", "text": "Michael Tojner\n\nMichael Tojner is an Austrian industrial entrepreneur, author, and professor at the Vienna University of Economics and Business.\n\nTojner grew up in the city of Haag, Lower Austria. Tojner went to the Bundesrealgymnasium Amstetten until 1984. While attending the Vienna University of Economics and Business Tojner wrote a dissertation about Venture Capital in 1990 which has been published by the „Ludwig Boltzmann Institut“. \n\nIn 1996 Tojner presented a thesis about the juridical circumstances of privatization in Czechia and graduated Doctor juris at the University of Vienna. Tojner applied lectureship at the Institute of External Trade on Holding Finance at the Vienna University of Economics and Business and has become professor in 2017.\n\nTojner co-founded bwin and Global Equity Partners. He invested in 50 different start-up companies overall.\n\nIn 2006 he founded the industry group AG. The Montana Group contains companies such as Universal Alloy Corporation, Asta, , Aluflexpack and the Varta AG, which joined the Frankfurt Stock Exchange noted in Prime Standard during October 2017.\n\nAs an active part of the WertInvest management Tojner takes action in the real estate business since the 1990s. Well known projects are the purchasing of the Vienna InterContinental, Posthouse and the Hotel Kummer in Vienna.\n\nThe project „Wohnturm“ at Vienna's “Heumarkt” has been a controversial subject in the public. Though it has been approved by the majority of Vienna's local council on the first of June 2017 Tojners investment in Vienna inner city has attracted criticism by local citizens for intervening the baroque architecture and endangering the city's status as UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\n"}
{"id": "42120546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42120546", "title": "Mikee Romero", "text": "Mikee Romero\n\nMichael L. Romero, Ph.D., known as Mikee Romero, is a Filipino politician, businessman, sportsman, and current team owner of GlobalPort Batang Pier in the Philippine Basketball Association. Romero is the current representative of 1-Pacman Party-List in the 17th Congress of the Philippines.\n\nRomero serves as Chairman of the Board of Globalport 900, Inc. (), formerly MIC Holdings Corp, since June 7, 2012. He graduated Bachelor of Arts from De La Salle University (while also played for the university's varsity basketball team) and a Masters in Business Management from the Asian Institute of Management. He also holds two doctorate degrees in Business Administration and Political Economics coming from the International Academy of Management and Economics-Philippines and De La Salle University.\n\nHe is also Chief Executive Officer of Harbour Centre Port Terminal, Inc., Chairman of Manila North Harbour Port, Inc., Chairman of Mikro-tech Capital, Inc., CEO of Pacifica, Inc. He is the Chairman of 168 Ferrum Pacific Mining Corporation and Vice Chairman of AirAsia Philippines.\n\nSon of construction magnate Reghis Romero II, Romero worked in venture capital in Singapore before returning home in 2002 to seize country's infrastructure opportunity. He converted family's reclaimed land into Harbour Center Port Terminal, now country's biggest bulk and breakbulk port. He listed his port assets in 2011, with a reverse takeover of listed MIC Holdings, renaming it GlobalPort 900, Inc. He said he wants to build a 'seaport highway' across the Philippines archipelago. He also has 65% stake in Manila North Harbour, country's biggest port, where San Miguel is a partner. Other interests include mining, hotels, a 20% stake in Air Asia Philippines and 15% in Alfred Yao's Zest Airways.\n\nAs a keen sportsman, he captains country's polo team and owns a baseball team (Manila Sharks) and a PBA team (GlobalPort Batang Pier). He and his wife Sheila collect rare Philippine and Southeast Asian art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5851855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5851855", "title": "ND-NOTIS", "text": "ND-NOTIS\n\nND-NOTIS was a tightly integrated yet modular office automation suite by Norsk Data introduced in the early 80s, running on the SINTRAN III platform on both ND-100 and ND-500 architectures. It was also available on MS Windows running in networks of Norsk Data servers.\n\nIt was very successful, and was the main product line of the company for quite a while, cementing its position in the Norwegian government office automation market. It was also very popular in Germany and in the UK (local municipality, DHSS etc.) \n\nThe NOTIS family of products was presented to the British Computing Society by Jeremy Salter. Roger Tagg et al. (BCS, End User SG, 1985) and endorsed as the BCS model for user interface. The same endorsement was awarded to NOTIS-IR as a model for information storage and retrieval. the European Commission published in 1985 NOTIS-IR as reference model for document and information search and retrieval.\n\nWhere it was offered it had no real competitors. There are still features and functionality that no other system supports - such as multilingual input and search.\n\nNorsk Data also sold custom-made Tandberg Data TDV-2200 terminals as \"NOTIS terminals\" with special keys for text editing. Other terminals were \"endorsed\", provided new keycaps and branded as \"NOTIS Terminals\" - including the Facit \"Twist\" - that would show a page standing.\n\nComponents included:\n\n'NOTIS\"\"' was unique then and still is. It captured the notion of different user interfaces, or terminals; and managed a common user interface for all applications that used the platform. So a key on the keyboard would in all applications \"mean\" the same. \n\nIt relied on an interface system \"User Environment\" to hold in one place all user profile and preferences. That is everything from log-in name and password, language preference, application skills and user rights to see, edit and change document - or data in applications. It came as a full \"Document management\" package, with full support for workflow - which was used by 3rd party application software. \n\nAnother first was multi-lingual support, - also part of the user interface. Regardless of where you logged on, the system would know of your preferences, and allow you to resume last task. The system also supported full editing from right to left. All deliveries to the Norwegian public sector required capability to use three language, and that in the same office, all three languages would be used, even in the same document. So to sell in its main market, it need multilingual support. That included all messages, error messages and user interaction. The error messages could also be adapter from \"novice\" to \"expert\".\n\nAn important \"first\" was the full support for SGML - or \"S-code\". This allow the text editor to be used to edit and view the first HTML documents created - on hardware running NOTIS. The alternate character set - \"T-code\" was the CCITT, now ITU T.56 standard character set - used in all television sets to show teletext/\"Text TV\". So, the systems had full support for semi-graphical input and display, but just a few terminals supported this. Beware that an important customer was CERN, where they at the end of the 1980s worked on what you are now using - the WWW. ND-NOTIS had full support for HTML at that time. \n\nThe main \"first\" - WYSIWYG - What you see is what you get. In 1983, most text editors used \"codes\" that had to be inserted in the text, like \"^p\" meaning \"paragraph.Even in the early days of text editors on Windows, most text systems were like that. However, NOTIS-WP, would show where the line ended and a new page started for a long time. The \"Symbolic Graphic Markup Language\" was developed as an international standard, and version 2 of this is the \"Extended SGML\" or XML that is approved by ODMA. \n\nThe \"back-end\" to all these modules were also flexible. You had direct file system exposure - that included network mounted files. However, with \"NOTIS-DS\" it included \"Document Storage\" and management - a full Electronic Document Management System (as found in systems such as Documentum and OpenText's Livelink today). The EDMS was based on a generic software interface, but only SIBAS was used commercially. This allowed fully localisation transparent document storage and retrieval. That of course demanded NOTIS-IR to search in all the documents. Software today used to power both Google and Altavista.\n\nNOTIS-ID was a \"special\" NOTIS-DS, with restricted functionality, in that this would interface to \"mail\" exchanges only. So if you stored a document to an email-recipient, you sent an email. Likewise, if you received an email, this would appear in your mail-count, and you could read it in NOTIS-WP like any other document.\n\nNorsk Data needed \"NOTIS\" to avoid duplicating applications. So the software was used in professional text production systems, for newspaper and magazine production - by \"NORTEXT\". It was reviewed a number of times here and found to be \"best of breed\" by e.g. the Seybold Report on newspaper systems. Hence demanding users were close to the developers - which may explain the success.\n\nThe list here will become endless since NOTIS was linked to three application generators - beside the Query part. All of these were fully capable of making large applications system, that could also update databases. The most successful link was to \"Unique\" - an application package developed outside Norsk Data to support SIBAS but later was enhanced to interface to a number of RDBMS. Unique was successful in the UK, implementing systems for the DHSS and local municipalities. The other platforms were \"BIM\" (Business Information Systems) and \"ABM\" (Application Building and Maintenance). A full interface was made to \"Systemator\" to provide full support to newspaper systems generated by this. Norsk Data marketed and sold the system as integrated with their offerings for the medical sector (\"Infomedica\") and hospital systems;- for local community in Scandinavia and the UK based on Unique(i.e.DIALOGUE-1); - for engineering documentation in Europe: CAD/CAM as Technovision and even to the F-16 Flight Simulator.\n\nNOTIS-QL - also marketed by Norsk Data as \"Access-1\" (and presented to Microsoft under this name - so you wonder with very good reason), is still commercially available as \"QBEvision\". It has also been licensed under several names with full product sold by CA.\n\nThe NOTIS family was fully ported to Microsoft Windows, but was incredibly difficult to move with its huge customer base. For a time there were plans to include \"Ami\" into the family, to gain some market momentum - but its very difficult to move when your users do not want to make the change and are so happy with the way things are.\n\nThe \"NOTIS\" family was ported to Norsk Data NDIX Unix line, but here suffered because Unix had problems with coping with the key sequences required (terminfo/termcap was incomplete compared to the proprietary \"VTM\".). This is still used in telecommunication, all SMS messages use this character set.\n\nThe NOTIS way of sorting was included in the first version of Sybase, which was acquired by Microsoft as DS1. This taught Microsoft to arrange sort sequences in Windows according to national character sets (\"codepage\").\n\nNOTIS-WP was the testbed for SGML and HTML. A very visible remedy of NOTIS-WP is the font size parameter in HTML today: 1 for tiny 5 for huge right out of NOTIS-WP.\n\nThere is still no other system available that will grant you \"only one user interface and make all into one system\". You have to fill in the expense report in Oracle HR and type the letter summarising the reason for the expense in some other text editor. With Notis, you clicked on field for providing the information, and WP would fire up, allowing you to write the letter - not as in Wikipedia where you have to supply own mark-up, but with the document template ready. The complete document would then be stored in the application database, with the expense report data.\n--KHF 00:52, 5 August 2013 (UTC)\n\nHistory_of_Norsk_Data\n"}
{"id": "23265032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23265032", "title": "Nai Lert", "text": "Nai Lert\n\nLert Sreshthaputa (), or Nai Lert (, literally \"Mr. Lert\"), was known as a Thailand’s first and foremost developer, investor as well as preserver of Bangkok’s environment. He was royally bestowed a title “Beloved Millionaire” by King Rama VI and became known as Phraya Bhakdi Noraset.\n\nNai Lert was born at his family’s home near the foot of Wat Bophitphimook Bridge at the mouth of Klong Ong Ang on June 22, 1872. He came from a distinguished background; his father, Chuen Sreshthaputra, was one of the sons of Luang Prasertwanit and a nephew of Phra Prasertwanit, who was the founder of the Sresthatputra family. After an education at Suan Ananta School that included a study of the English language Nai Lert started working for various firms and ended up becoming partner at the Singapore Strait Company (later to become Fraser and Neave) by the age of 20.\n\nAt the age of 22, Nai Lert started an imported goods business called Nai Lert Store and among other products offered the first ice to be made in Thailand. The site for Nai Lert's Ice works which faced the original canal that subsequently was filled in to become Krungthep-Samut Prakan Road in 1939 is now in the area of Sukhumvit Rd between Soi 5 & 7 (for which both Sois bear the name Soi Nai Lert).. Parts of the original ice works dating back to the early 1900s form part of the back wall of The Copacabana club (built in 1957) which was one of the original multi-story buildings in the Wattana area. The original doors and cellar entrances were re-discovered in 2016 during renovations to the well known nightclub which was renamed Checkinn99. The distinguished Scholar Phraya Anuman Rajdhon would later on describe the exciting novelty of ice as \"Most people who had never seen it refused to believe that there was such a thing as frozen water. Ice had to be put on a tray and exhibited for the people to see at a museum which was then in the Sala Sahathai building. Some people even asked to take small cubes of ice for those at home to see. The old saying 'to make a solid shape out of water,' had been proved possible.\"\n\nThough Nai Lert continued to make his headquarters near the original shop, he soon expanded into other businesses in other parts of the city. One was a guesthouse called the Hotel de la Paix thereby creating the first hotel property of the family business. Nai Lert also expanded his business into a transportation and real estate empire. He introduced the first bus services in Thailand in 1907 to serve Bangkok commuters and later expanded the business into the first taxi service using imported cars, the White Boat company operating pleasure boats, seagoing vessels and a public transportation service along the Klong Saen Saep from Pratunam. He is also credited for creating the first Bangkok bus service launching an even more innovative venture, the White Bus Company. The first route\n\nNai Lert was also at the origin of the development of the Ploenchit area where he acquired a large piece of land in 1915 and created one of the first developments in Bangkok by master planning the area and selling off parts of the land as individual plots including the existing British Embassy site on Ploenchit which was sold to the British Government in 1922 \n. He was also at the forefront of innovation creating the first ice factory in Thailand, building the tallest commercial building in Bangkok in 1927 and importing motor vehicles from Europe and the US.\n\nA few months after the end of World War II, Nai Lert died on December 15, 1945, leaving his business empire to his wife and his only descendant, his daughter Thanpuying Lursakdi Sampatisiri. His legacy included a real estate and hotel group operating several office buildings, retail centers and a hotel in Bangkok, Swissôtel Nai Lert Park Hotel, a foundation named after him and his beloved wife Khunying Sin, the Lerd-Sinn Foundation and a history of deeply held self beliefs of philanthropy and love of nature.\n"}
{"id": "57150026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57150026", "title": "Nikolai Brykin", "text": "Nikolai Brykin\n\nNikolai Gavrilovich Brykin (Russian: Николай Гаврилович Брыкин) is a Russian politician and public figure, deputy of the State Duma of the Russian Federation (since 2016). Member of the \"United Russia\" party . Chairman of the board of the regional public fund \"Defense of the Fatherland\", providing assistance to the veterans of special forces and security agencies combating terrorism. Lieutenant-General. \n\nNikolai Gavrilovich Brykin was born on November 25, 1959 in Soldatskoye, Ostrogozhsky District, Voronezh Oblast. After graduating from school, Nikolay Brykin entered the Ostrogozhsky Agricultural College, after which he was conscripted for military service. His military service took place on the border with China, in the Eastern Military District, the Kurchum detachment, 10th border checkpoint Matveevka.\n\nAfter returning from the army he spent some time working at SU-909 \"Tyumendorstroy\". At the same time, he entered the Road Construction Faculty of the Tyumen Engineering and Construction Institute.\n\nThen he was sent as a reinforcement to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. During the 11 years of work in the Department of Internal Affairs of Nizhnevartovsk, Tyumen region, Nikolai Brykin has risen to the post of the head of the Economic Crimes Department (serving also as the deputy head of the criminal police). While working in the law enforcement system, he studied at the Higher School of Militia in Tyumen.\n\nIn 1994, Brykin was appointed the head of the Federal Tax Police Service of Russia (FSNP) in Nizhnevartovsk. In 1999, Brykin was transferred from the post of first deputy head of the Federal Tax Service (FSNP) for the Khanty-Mansiysk Autonomous District, to Moscow. He held the office of the first deputy head FSNP in Moscow up until the abolition of the Federal Tax Police Service.\n\nIn 2004 Brykin was appointed the head of the Economic Tax Crime Bureau of the Far Eastern Federal District and moved to the Far East.\n\nIn 2006, he was removed from his post by the Presidential Decree and retired with the rank of Major General .\n\nAfter 2006, he held various top management positions in large corporations like Mechel, Rostopprom, and Rosneft. He also acted as co-founder of two commercial organizations.\n\nIn 2014, Brykin received an offer from the leadership of the Regional Public Fund of Assistance to Veterans of the Special Forces and the Security Agencies Combating Terrorism \"Defense of the Fatherland\". He became the permanent member and the first Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Fund.\n\nIn May 2016, Brykin participated in the United Russia primaries. He successfully passed the election and became the candidate for the deputy of the State Duma from the United Russia. According to the results of voting during the State Duma elections, he was elected the deputy via the United Russia federal lists. By the decision of the State Duma, he was appointed an authorized representative of the State Duma in the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation. \n\nMarried, has a son and daughter, grandchildren\n\nSoon after his retirement from the law enforcement, Nikolai Brykin became the founder of the \"Southern Breeze\" LLC (TIN 2302055962), registered on October 12, 2007, in Krasnodar Krai . According to the official list of activities, the company works in the real estate, construction, and other related business fields, including railway communication . As of 2013, this company owned 98 lots of land near Novorossiysk, Krasnodar Krai. It is known that the said land property was the subject of legal disputes between the Southern Breeze LLC and the local authorities .\n\nIn October 2015, Brykin acted as the co-founder of the newly-established Bahus LLC (INN 2315985475), also registered in the Krasnodar Krai. The registration documents of the company specify 81 various activities, including grape farming, construction, woodworking, retail and wholesale trade of the various goods, etc. .\n\nIn May 2016, Brykin sold his business assets to his daughter. Later he announced his decision to participate in the primaries of United Russia in the Tyumen region, and the elections into the State Duma. \n\nThe most controversial incident was reflected by the numerous publications both in mainstream media and in blogs. According to the information available in the media, Nikolai Brykin, with the help of his son-in-law Sergei Kiryanov, tried to capture a share in a company owned by the businessman and the opposition member Konstantin Dyulgerov . Dyulgerov claims that he was forced to pay Brykin and his accomplices for \"protection\" for quite a long time. As soon as he decided to refuse the \"protection\", they initiated the criminal proceedings against him, with investigation lasting several years .\n\nFrom 2004 to 2006, Brykin was the head of the Economic Tax Crime Bureau of the Far Eastern Federal District. In 2006, the Presidential Decree removed him from his post. He retired with the rank of Major General. According to one of the theories available in the media, the true reason for Brykin's dismissal was his personal interest in one of the high-profile cases of large-scale fraud. Brykin's subordinates carried out the investigation negligently and contributed to its collapse .\n\nBrykin, being the general director of Russian Fuel Company (OJSC Rostopprom), by virtue of the position held, directly participated in its bankruptcy. His actions as the general director of OJSC Rostopprom, as well as the surety documents signed by him, ultimately led to the bankruptcy of a previously successful state-owned company. Several powerful clans showed interest in seizing control over Rostoprom at that time .\n\nIn 2016, during the pre-election period, Brykin, according to available information, used various methods to negotiate a deal with major media companies in the region. He wanted to remove any negative information regarding his life and activities, as well as to provide exclusively positive news about him, even concerning minor events. Some media outlets received \"warnings\" when they refused to cooperate. As a result of this, the regional information field was partially \"cleaned up\". However, some of the publications on the Internet remained .\n\nIn September 2017, passed the year since Nikolay Brykin became the member of the State Duma. The output of his legislative activities was analyzed, based on official sources. According to the information of the State Duma, Nikolai Brykin participated in the development of 29 draft laws, however, he joined the development only after the draft laws have been already submitted for the discussion. Brykin acted as one of the primary initiators only once, as one of 11 co-authors of the amendment to one of the paragraphs of the federal law. In addition, according to the transcript of the State Duma, Brykin gave only 33 speeches per year. And most of them were remarks from a place, which lasted for 10-20 seconds, and mostly expressed the opinion of the committee in which he participates (\"the committee recommends acceptance\", or \"the committee recommends rejecting the bill”). Deputy Brykin also did not participate in the voting on more than a thousand issues. And when he participated, he only voted \"for\" the proposals. These factors determined the low evaluation of Brykin's work as a deputy, given by the media.\n\nSince August 2017, Nikolay Brykin used his deputy powers to protect the interests of Bank Yugra, which had its licence suspended and later withdrawn by the Central Bank of Russia. Brykin's lobbyism included sending the deputy requests to various instances, including the General Prosecutor's Office of the Russian Federation and frequent public statements. Some media viewed this as an attempt to exert pressure on the court and the Central Bank . In December 2017, the Moscow Arbitration Court adopted a decision on the complaint of Bank Yugra in which the decision of the supervisory authority to revoke the license was disputed . In accordance with the court decision , the stance of the Central Bank was recognized as lawful and justified, and the claims of Yugra were not a subject to satisfaction. \n\n"}
{"id": "37514344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37514344", "title": "Oluf Arntsen", "text": "Oluf Arntsen\n\nOluf Arntsen (born 22 March 1941) is a Norwegian businessperson and politician for the Christian Democratic Party.\n\nHe was born in Kristiansand and graduated from the University of Oslo with the cand.real. degree in 1967. He worked as a consultant in the Ministry of Education and Church Affairs and at a teachers' college before being assisting chief executive at NKI-skolen. During Korvald's Cabinet from 1972 to 1973, he was a State Secretary, first in the Ministry of Local Government and Labour, then in the Office of the Prime Minister. After that he held another political position, secretary-general of the Christian Democratic Party, before he was director of enterprise in Vestfold County Municipality. He was then a director in Anders Jahre/Kosmos from 1982 to 1988, before being hired as chief executive officer of Sparebanken Pluss. He retired in 2001 and was replaced by Stein A. Hannevik.\n\nHe has been chairman of the Norwegian Banks' Guarantee Fund, the Norwegian Industrial and Regional Development Fund, Mediehuset Vårt Land as well as the corporate council and election committee of Statoil. In late December 2002 he became chairman of the Southern Norway Regional Health Authority. His tenure was marked by turbulence. The chief executive Steinar Stokke had to step down from several hospital boards in May 2003 because of a flawed project where patient diagnoses was to be coded in different ways to be eligible for public funding. In January 2004, Arntsen tried to oust Stokke from the executive chair, following the \"coding case\" as well as roundhanded pension deals with company executives. Arntsen was supported by deputy chair Helen Bjørnøy and board member Ole Johan Sandvand, but was voted down by the rest of the board (Kaare Norum, Einfrid Halvorsen, Anne Mo Grimdalen, Terje Keyn, Morten Falkenberg and Svein Øverland). Arntsen subsequently had to resign, but in response, the Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybråten promptly relieved the entire board of their positions. Stokke resigned the next month.\n\nArntsen is also a former supervisory council member of Christiania Bank og Kreditkasse, and has led the political-financial committee of the Norwegian Savings Banks Association. In 1999 he led the Arntsen Committee which drew out the principles for that year's central wage negotiations in Norway. From 2005 to 2007 he led a new committee, which reviewed the disability pension and delivered the \"Norwegian Official Report 2007: 4\".\n\nHe resides in Kristiansand, and is a freemason. While living and working in Eastern Norway, he was a member of Asker municipal council and Akershus county council.\n"}
{"id": "35931164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35931164", "title": "Pedro Noel", "text": "Pedro Noel\n\nPedro Noel is a Brazilian journalist and graduated philosopher. According to Romanian media, he is also an Internet media activist, known as 'one of those who made 700 thousand Spaniards take the streets' in 2011.\n\nIn December 2010, under the handle of 'FuturePress', Noel and Carrion started to write to the news portal WLCentral.org where they exposed in different languages and using different approaches for more than one year analysis on whistleblowing material, articles and reports on human-rights violations, civic-movements and net-neutrality.\n\nIn the late 2011, Pedro Noel along with other journalists started the Associated Whistleblowing Press, a media agency focused on the defense of human rights by promoting transparency, freedom of information and speech, whistleblowing and investigative journalism, conceived as a global network made up of cooperative local platforms and actors.\n\nAs the editor of AWP, Pedro Noel took part in more than 50 revelations of wrongdoing, corruption and abuse in Spain, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru and Iceland, since 2011.\n\nIn a controversial session at 32nd Chaos Communication Congress in Hamburg in 2015, Noel held a talk with Canadian journalist Bethany Horne denouncing violations of free speech standards by the Ecuadorian government. During the talk, Pedro Noel released documents providing evidence that press and media coverage of critical issues were considered by Ecuadorian government as risk factors for democratic stability through the local platform Ecuador Transparente, operated by Associated Whistleblowing Press. The publication followed previous denounces, also performed by Ecuador Transparente, of physical and on-line surveillance and spying against activists, journalists and politicians in Ecuador, performed by the local government. In April 2016, Noel also took part in the publication of alleged proofs of illegal Internet censorship performed by Ecuadorian government. In November 2016, Pedro Noel also participated in the release of the Godwin Papers, which showed on-line harassment and discredit campaigns managed by the Ecuadorian government against local journalists, media outlets and the Inter-American Commission of Human Rights.\n\nIn 2011, along with other Internet activists and researchers, Pedro Noel started the project TheGlobalSquare in partnership with TU Delft and its project Tribler. The social network is focused on attack and censorship resilient P2P information broadcasting and social systems.\n\nAlong with Santiago Carrion, Noel founded the news portal EuropeanRevolution.net , a portal conceived as an informative platform for activists, having as first goal to translate into English what was happening with the 15 May movement and in the squares occupations around Europe in order to expand its impact worldwide.\n\nThis led Noel to collaborate with TakeTheSquare.net \n\nNoel and other were the responsible for the worldwide online campaign which culminated in the global day of action on October 15th 2011 in more than 950 cities in 82 countries and its main website 15October.net .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19663722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19663722", "title": "Peter Kurer", "text": "Peter Kurer\n\nPeter Kurer (born June 28, 1949) is a Swiss manager and lawyer. He was Chairman of UBS AG from April 23, 2008 until his dismissal in 2009. He chaired the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Strategy Committee of UBS AG.\n\nKurer graduated with a licenciate in law from the law school of the University of Zürich and also holds a doctorate in law from the same school and an LL.M. degree from the University of Chicago School of Law. He clerked at the District Court of Zürich and was admitted as an attorney-at-law in the Canton of Zürich.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1990, Kurer practiced as an attorney with the Zürich office of the international law firm Baker and McKenzie, first as an associate and later as a partner. From 1991 to 2001, Kurer was a partner at the Swiss law firm Homburger (now: Homburger AG) in Zürich.\n\nIn 2001, Kurer was appointed Group General Counsel and Member of the Group Managing Board of UBS AG and in 2002, he was appointed Member of the Executive Board. On 1 April 2008, UBS announced that he would become Chairman of the Board of Directors, replacing Marcel Ospel. On 4 March 2009, UBS announced that Kurer would step down as Chairman of the Board in April and that Kaspar Villiger would be nominated to succeed him. Kurer is now widely seen as a driver behind many of the risk decisions that ultimately led to huge losses for UBS, though he also deserves credit for taking swift action in terms of recapitalising the Bank in 2008.\n\nKurer is a member of the Visiting Committee to the Law School of The University of Chicago. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees of a foundation that acts as an advisory board to the University of St. Gallen Program for Law and Economics, and a member of the Committee of Continuing Education, Executive School of Management, Technology and Law, at the University of St. Gallen.\n\n"}
{"id": "56522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56522", "title": "Right-wing politics", "text": "Right-wing politics\n\nRight-wing politics hold that certain social orders and hierarchies are inevitable, natural, normal or desirable, typically supporting this position on the basis of natural law, economics or tradition. Hierarchy and inequality may be viewed as natural results of traditional social differences or the competition in market economies. The term right-wing can generally refer to \"the conservative or reactionary section of a political party or system\".\n\nThe political terms \"Left\" and \"Right\" were first used during the French Revolution (1789–1799) and referred to seating arrangements in the French parliament: those who sat to the right of the chair of the parliamentary president were broadly supportive of the institutions of the monarchist Old Regime. The original Right in France was formed as a reaction against the \"Left\" and comprised those politicians supporting hierarchy, tradition and clericalism. The use of the expression (\"the right\") became prominent in France after the restoration of the monarchy in 1815, when it was applied to the Ultra-royalists. The people of English-speaking countries did not apply the terms \"right\" and \"left\" to their own politics until the 20th century.\n\nAlthough the right-wing originated with traditional conservatives, monarchists and reactionaries, the term extreme right-wing has also been applied to movements including fascism, nazism and racial supremacy. From the 1830s to the 1880s, there was a shift in the Western world of social class structure and the economy, moving away from nobility and aristocracy towards capitalism. This general economic shift toward capitalism affected centre-right movements such as the British Conservative Party, which responded by becoming supportive of capitalism. In the United States, the Right includes both economic and social conservatives. In Europe, economic conservatives are usually considered liberal and the Right includes nationalists, nativist opposition to immigration, religious conservatives and historically a significant presence of right-wing movements with anti-capitalist sentiments including conservatives and fascists who opposed what they saw as the selfishness and excessive materialism inherent in contemporary capitalism.\n\nThe political term right-wing was first used during the French Revolution, when liberal deputies of the Third Estate generally sat to the left of the president's chair, a custom that began in the Estates General of 1789. The nobility, members of the Second Estate, generally sat to the right. In the successive legislative assemblies, monarchists who supported the Old Regime were commonly referred to as rightists because they sat on the right side. A major figure on the right was Joseph de Maistre, who argued for an authoritarian form of conservatism. Throughout the 19th century, the main line dividing Left and Right in France was between supporters of the republic (often secularists) and supporters of the monarchy (often Catholics). On the right, the Legitimists and Ultra-royalists held counter-revolutionary views, while the Orléanists hoped to create a constitutional monarchy under their preferred branch of the royal family, a brief reality after the 1830 July Revolution. The centre-right Gaullists in post-World War II France advocated considerable social spending on education and infrastructure development as well as extensive economic regulation, but limited the wealth redistribution measures characteristic of social democracy.\n\nIn British politics, the terms \"right\" and \"left\" came into common use for the first time in the late 1930s in debates over the Spanish Civil War.\n\nThe Right has gone through five distinct historical stages: (I) the reactionary right sought a return to aristocracy and established religion; (II) the moderate right distrusted intellectuals and sought limited government; (III) the radical right favored a romantic and aggressive nationalism; (IV) the extreme right proposed anti-immigration policies and implicit racism; and (V) the neo-liberal right sought to combine a market economy and economic deregulation with the traditional right-wing beliefs in patriotism, elitism and law and order.\n\nThe meaning of right-wing \"varies across societies, historical epochs, and political systems and ideologies\". According to \"The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Politics\", in liberal democracies, the political right opposes socialism and social democracy. Right-wing parties include conservatives, Christian democrats, classical liberals, nationalists and on the far-right; racists and fascists.\n\nRoger Eatwell and Neal O'Sullivan divide the right into five types: reactionary, moderate, radical, extreme and new. Chip Berlet argues that each of these \"styles of thought\" are \"responses to the left\", including liberalism and socialism, which have arisen since the 1789 French Revolution. The reactionary right looks toward the past and is \"aristocratic, religious and authoritarian\". The moderate right, typified by the writings of Edmund Burke, is tolerant of change, provided it is gradual and accepts some aspects of liberalism, including the rule of law and capitalism, although it sees radical \"laissez-faire\" and individualism as harmful to society. The moderate right often promotes nationalism and social welfare policies. Radical right is a term developed after World War II to describe groups and ideologies such as McCarthyism, the John Birch Society, Thatcherism and the Republikaner Party. Eatwell stresses that this use has \"major typological problems\" and that the term \"has also been applied to clearly democratic developments\". The radical right includes right-wing populism and various other subtypes. Eatwell argues that the extreme right' has four traits: \"1) anti-democracy; 2) nationalism; 3) racism; and 4) the strong state\". The New Right consists of the liberal conservatives, who stress small government, free markets and individual initiative.\n\nOther authors make a distinction between the centre-right and the far-right. Parties of the centre-right generally support liberal democracy, capitalism, the market economy (though they may accept government regulation to control monopolies), private property rights and a limited welfare state (for example, government provision of education and medical care). They support conservatism and economic liberalism and oppose socialism and communism. By contrast, the phrase \"far-right\" is used to describe those who favor an absolutist government, which uses the power of the state to support the dominant ethnic group or religion and often to criminalize other ethnic groups or religions. Typical examples of leaders to whom the far-right label is often applied are: Francisco Franco in Spain, Benito Mussolini in Italy, Adolf Hitler in Nazi Germany and Augusto Pinochet in Chile.\n\nThe United States Department of Homeland Security defines right-wing extremism in the United States as \"broadly divided into those groups, movements, and adherents that are primarily hate-oriented (based on hatred of particular religious, racial or ethnic groups), and those that are mainly anti-government, rejecting federal authority in favor of state or local authority, or rejecting government authority entirely. It may include groups and individuals that are dedicated to a single issue, such as opposition to abortion or immigration.\" \n\nRight-wing politics involves in varying degrees the rejection of some egalitarian objectives of left-wing politics, claiming either that social or economic inequality is natural and inevitable or that it is beneficial to society. Right-wing ideologies and movements support social order. The original French right-wing was called \"the party of order\" and held that France needed a strong political leader to keep order. British conservative scholar R. J. White, who rejects egalitarianism, wrote: \"Men are equal before God and the laws, but unequal in all else; hierarchy is the order of nature, and privilege is the reward of honourable service\". American conservative Russell Kirk also rejected egalitarianism as imposing sameness, stating: \"Men are created different; and a government that ignores this law becomes an unjust government for it sacrifices nobility to mediocrity\". Kirk took as one of the \"canons\" of conservatism the principle that \"civilized society requires orders and classes\". Right libertarians reject collective or state-imposed equality as undermining reward for personal merit, initiative and enterprise. In their view, it is unjust, limits personal freedom and leads to social uniformity and mediocrity.\n\nThe original use of \"right-wing\" in reference to communism had the conservatives on the right, the liberals in the centre and the communists on the left. Both the conservatives and the liberals were strongly anti-communist. The history of the use of the term \"right-wing\" to mean anti-communist is a complicated one.\n\nEarly Marxist movements were at odds with the traditional monarchies that ruled over much of the European continent at the time. Many European monarchies outlawed the public expression of communist views and the \"Communist Manifesto\", which began \"[a] spectre [that] is haunting Europe\", stated that monarchs feared for their thrones. Advocacy of communism was illegal in the Russian Empire, the German Empire and Austria-Hungary, the three most powerful monarchies in continental Europe prior to World War I. Many monarchists (except constitutional monarchists) viewed inequality in wealth and political power as resulting from a divine natural order. The struggle between monarchists and communists was often described as a struggle between the Right and the Left.\n\nBy World War I, in most European monarchies, the divine right of kings had become discredited and replaced by liberal and nationalist movements. Most European monarchs became figureheads or accepted a lesser degree of powers while elected governments held the day-to-day power. The most conservative European monarchy, the Russian Empire, was replaced by the communist Soviet Union. The Russian Revolution inspired a series of other communist revolutions across Europe in the years 1917–1922. Many of these, such as the German Revolution, were defeated by nationalist and monarchist military units. In this period, nationalism began to be considered right-wing, especially when it opposed the internationalism of the communists.\n\nThe 1920s and 1930s saw the fading of traditional right-wing politics. The mantle of conservative anti-communism was taken up by the rising fascist movements on the one hand and by American-inspired liberal conservatives on the other. When communist groups and political parties began appearing around the world, their opponents were usually colonial authorities and the term right-wing came to be applied to colonialism.\n\nAfter World War II, communism became a global phenomenon and anti-communism became an integral part of the domestic and foreign policies of the United States and its NATO allies. Conservatism in the post-war era abandoned its monarchist and aristocratic roots, focusing instead on patriotism, religious values and nationalism. Throughout the Cold War, colonial governments in Asia, Africa and Latin America turned to the United States for political and economic support. Communists were also enemies of capitalism, portraying Wall Street as the oppressor of the masses. The United States made anti-communism the top priority of its foreign policy and many American conservatives sought to combat what they saw as communist influence at home. This led to the adoption of a number of domestic policies that are collectively known under the term \"McCarthyism\". While both liberals and conservatives were anti-communist, the followers of Senator McCarthy were called right-wing and those on the right called liberals who favored free speech, even for communists; leftist.\n\nIn France after the French Revolution, the Right fought against the rising power of those who had grown rich through commerce and sought to preserve the rights of the hereditary nobility. They were uncomfortable with capitalism, the Enlightenment, individualism and industrialism and fought to retain traditional social hierarchies and institutions. In Europe's history, there have been strong collectivist right-wing movements, such as in the social Catholic right that has exhibited hostility to all forms of liberalism (including economic liberalism) and has historically advocated for paternalist class harmony involving an organic-hierarchical society where workers are protected while hierarchy of classes remain.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, the Right had shifted to support the newly rich in some European countries (particularly England) and instead of favouring the nobility over industrialists, favoured capitalists over the working class. Other right-wing movements, such as Carlism in Spain and nationalist movements in France, Germany and Russia, remained hostile to capitalism and industrialism. However, there are still a few right-wing movements today, notably the French Nouvelle Droite, CasaPound and American paleoconservatives, that are often in opposition to capitalist ethics and the effects they have on society as a whole, which they see as infringing upon or causing the decay of social traditions or hierarchies that they see as essential for social order.\n\nIn modern times, \"right-wing\" is sometimes used to describe \"laissez-faire\" capitalism. In Europe, capitalists formed alliances with the Right during their conflicts with workers after 1848. In France, the Right's support of capitalism can be traced to the late-nineteenth century. The so-called neoliberal Right, popularised by US President Ronald Reagan and UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, combines support for free markets, privatisation and deregulation with traditional right-wing support for social conformity. Right-wing libertarianism (sometimes known as libertarian conservatism or conservative libertarianism) supports a decentralised economy based on economic freedom and holds property rights, free markets and free trade to be the most important kinds of freedom. Russell Kirk believed that freedom and property rights were interlinked. Anthony Gregory has written that right-wing libertarianism \"can refer to any number of varying and at times mutually exclusive political orientations\". Gregory holds that the issue is neither right or left, but \"whether a person sees the state as a major hazard or just another institution to be reformed and directed toward a political goal\".\n\nConservative authoritarians and those on the far-right have supported fascism and corporatism.\n\nIn France, nationalism was originally a left-wing and Republican ideology. After the period of \"boulangisme\" and the Dreyfus Affair, nationalism became a trait of the right-wing. Right-wing nationalists sought to define and defend a \"true\" national identity from elements deemed to be corrupting that identity. Some were supremacists, who in accordance with social Darwinism applied the concept of \"survival of the fittest\" to nations and races. Right-wing nationalism was influenced by Romantic nationalism, in which the state derives its political legitimacy from the organic unity of those it governs. This generally includes the language, race, culture, religion and customs of the nation, all of which were \"born\" within its culture. Linked with right-wing nationalism is cultural conservatism, which supports the preservation of the heritage of a nation or culture and often sees deviations from cultural norms as an existential threat.\n\nRight-wing politics typically justifies a hierarchical society on the basis of natural law or tradition.\n\nTraditionalism was advocated by a group of United States university professors (labeled the \"New Conservatives\" by the popular press) who rejected the concepts of individualism, liberalism, modernity and social progress, seeking instead to promote what they identified as cultural and educational renewal and a revived interest in what T. S. Eliot referred to as \"the permanent things\" (concepts perceived by traditionalists as truths that endure from age to age alongside basic institutions of western society such as the church, the family, the state and business).\n\nRight-wing populism is a combination of civic/ethno-nationalism with anti-elitism, using populist rhetoric to provide a radical critique of existing political institutions. According to Margaret Canovan, a right-wing populist is \"a charismatic leader, using the tactics of politicians' populism to go past the politicians and intellectual elite and appeal to the reactionary sentiments of the populace, often buttressing his claim to speak for the people by the use of referendums\".\n\nIn Europe, right-wing populism often takes the form of distrust of the European Union and of politicians in general combined with anti-immigrant rhetoric and a call for a return to traditional, national values. In the United States, the Tea Party movement states that the core beliefs for membership are the primacy of individual liberties as defined in the Constitution of the United States, small federal government and respect for the rule of law. Some policy positions include an opposition to illegal immigration, a strong national military force, the right to individual gun ownership, cutting taxes, reducing government spending and balancing the budget.\n\nGovernment support for an established religion was associated with the original French Right. Joseph de Maistre argued for the indirect authority of the Pope over temporal matters. According to Maistre, only governments founded upon a Christian constitution, implicit in the customs and institutions of all European societies and especially in Catholic European monarchies, could avoid the disorder and bloodshed that followed the implementation of rationalist political programs, as in the French Revolution. The Church of England was established by Henry VIII and some churchmen are given seats in the House of Lords, but are considered politically neutral rather than being specifically right or left-wing.\n\nReligious fundamentalists frequently feel that governments should enact laws supporting their religious tenets. The Christian right is a major force in North America. They generally support laws upholding what they consider religious values, such as opposition to abortion, contraception, sex outside marriage and to same-sex marriage and reject scientific positions on evolution and other matters where science disagrees with the Bible. Outside the West, some other religious and ethnicity based political groups are considered right-wing. In India, Hindu nationalism is sometimes considered a part of the Right. The Hindu nationalist movement has attracted privileged groups fearing encroachment on their dominant positions and also \"plebeian\" and impoverished groups seeking recognition around a majoritarian rhetoric of cultural pride, order and national strength. Many Islamist groups have been called \"right-wing\" including the Great Union Party and the Combatant Clergy Association/Association of Militant Clergy and the Islamic Society of Engineers of Iran.\n\nThe term \"family values\" has been used as a buzzword by right-wing parties such as the Republican Party in the United States, the Family First Party in Australia, the Conservative Party in the United Kingdom and the Bharatiya Janata Party in India to describe support for traditional families and opposition to the changes the modern world has made in how families live. Right-wing supporters of \"family values\" may oppose abortion, euthanasia, the increasing cultural acceptance of homosexuality, divorce, teenage pregnancy and adultery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916664", "title": "SGS S.A.", "text": "SGS S.A.\n\nSGS (formerly Société Générale de Surveillance (French for \"General Society of Surveillance\")) is a multinational company headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland which provides inspection, verification, testing and certification services. It has more than 95,000 employees and operates over 2,400 offices and laboratories worldwide. It ranked on Forbes Global 2000 in 2015, 2016 and 2017.\n\nThe core services offered by SGS include the inspection and verification of the quantity, weight and quality of traded goods, the testing of product quality and performance against various health, safety and regulatory standards, and to make sure that products, systems or services meet the requirements of standards set by governments, standardization bodies or by SGS customers.\n\nInternational traders in London, including those from France, Germany and the Netherlands, the Baltic, Hungary, the Mediterranean and the United States, founded the London Corn Trade Association in 1878 in order to standardize shipping documents for exporting nations and to clarify procedures and disputes relating to the quality of imported grain.\n\nIn the same year, SGS was founded in Rouen, France, by Henri Goldstuck, a young Latvian immigrant who, having seen the opportunities at one of the country’s largest ports, began to inspect French grain shipments. With the aid of Captain Maxwell Shafftington, he borrowed money from an Austrian friend to start inspecting the shipments arriving in Rouen as, during transit, losses showed in the volume of grain as a result of shrinkage and theft. The service inspected and verified the quantity and quality of the grain on arrival with the importer.\n\nBusiness grew rapidly; the two entrepreneurs went into business together in December 1878 and, within a year, had opened offices in Le Havre, Dunkirk and Marseilles.\n\nIn 1915, during the First World War, the company moved its headquarters from Paris to Geneva, Switzerland and on July 19, 1919 the company adopted the name Société Générale de Surveillance.\n\nDuring the mid-20th century, SGS started offering inspection, testing and verification services across a variety of sectors, including industrial, minerals and oil, gas and chemicals, among others. In 1981, the company went public and in 1985 joined the Swiss Market Index.\n\nThe company works in the following industries: agriculture and food, automotive, aviation, chemical, construction, consumer goods and retail, energy, finance, industrial manufacturing, life sciences, logistics, mining, oil and gas, and public sector.\n\n\nIn Bangladesh Mr. Rashed is 1st managing Director & Mr. Monzur hassan is Key Account manager for CRS Inspection & Mr.Emtiaz Khan Tuhin is the best team member for CRS Inspection."}
{"id": "6423239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6423239", "title": "Saudization", "text": "Saudization\n\nSaudization, officially known as Saudi nationalization scheme, or Nitaqat system in Arabic, is the newest policy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia implemented by its Ministry of Labor, whereby Saudi companies and enterprises are required to fill up their workforce with Saudi nationals up to certain levels.\n\nAs part of the Vision 2030 reforms, announced in 2016, reducing the number of unemployed Saudi nationals is a key element of the plan. Previously the private sector was largely dominated by expatriate workers from Pakistan, India, Philippines and Arab countries such as Lebanon or Egypt.\n\nThe Saudi Government took the decision to reduce unemployment among native Saudis, under the slogan 'Let's Put the Saudi in Saudization'. Companies which \"fail to comply\" with Saudization regulations have been warned that they \"will not be awarded government contracts\". While the \"Saudi political elite\" is agreed on the importance of Saudization, Saudi businesses have complained of its implementation and sought ways to avoid it.\n\nin 2017, updates to the Saudization percentages were announced, differing the number of Saudi nationals required depending on industry and company size.\n\nWhile many Saudi native men found employment with the government, there were not enough government jobs as over 65% of the population is of working age. \n\"Saudization\" the workforce has been a goal of the kingdom since at least the Fourth Development Plan (1985-1989) which called for replacing foreign workers with Saudi natives as one of its objectives. Immigration was tightened and many undocumented foreign workers were deported, but the program was only a marginal success.\n\nA Saudization goal for 2003 was that at least 30% of employees of companies with 20 or more workers should be Saudi natives, (although only 300,000 people were employed by companies of this size).\n\nIn June 2006, negotiations between business executives and senior government leaders, including King Abdullah, led to reductions of Saudization targets in some work sectors from 30 percent to 10 percent, and full waivers from Saudization in the case of two Chinese companies, according to discussions between US ambassador James C. Oberwetter and Saudi executives.\n\nIn 2014 the \"Saudi Gazette\" reported that one of the targets of the kingdom's Ninth Development Plan (2010-2015) -- to \"bring down the unemployment rate to 5.5 percent and revive the Saudization strategy\"—had not been realized.\n\nCurrently the plan targets Saudi youths as well as the women workers for the growth of the kingdom's economy. The Shura council (a consultative body) dictated that as of 2007, 70 percent of the work force were Saudi. Between 2011 and 2013, the transportation and communication sectors recorded the highest improvement in Saudization rates from 9 percent to 20 percent. Manufacturing also underwent a notable improvement in Saudization rates (from 13 percent to 19.3 percent). \n\nSaudization rates in the retail and construction sectors also improved from 12.9 percent and 7.2 percent to 18.4 percent and 10.3 percent respectively, said the report.\nTaking average growth for the period between 2011 and 2013, improved Saudization rates in the transportation sector came mainly as a result of a significant 59 percent growth in employment of Saudis. Average Saudi employment growth in the manufacturing and wholesale and retail sectors was also high, at 25 percent each. \nMeanwhile, employment growth for non-Saudis averaged just 4 percent and 7 percent respectively. \n\nThe construction sector — the most labor-intensive part of the private sector — recorded an impressive 34 percent average growth in employment of Saudis, while employment of non-Saudis in the sector grew by 14 percent. \nThe higher growth in Saudi employment in the construction sector is impressive given the particularly high wage differential from non-Saudis. Saudis in the construction sector earned a monthly average of SR3,330 in 2013, while non-Saudis earned only SR1,029.\n\nFor companies in Saudi Arabia, there are a number of challenges with implementing Saudization. Firstly, there are a lack of recruitment companies specializing in Saudi talent so when it comes to hiring for a role and going through the Nitaqat process, companies don't have the knowledge or the support they require. \n\nThe turnover for Saudi talent is high as companies widely recognize and value the skills and abilities of Saudi nationals and can easily offer a candidate a more attractive package. A solution for this is to ensure that you are offering not only competitive packages for the role but also long term training plans to support Saudi nationals in their careers. Saudi graduates are often western educated, choosing to complete their university degrees in the UK, US and Europe. \n\nSaudi women are a key element to teams and companies have long seen their value, the previous challenge of women not being allowed to transport themselves around the Kingdom is coming to an end with women being allowed to drive from 2018.\n\nThe first phase of Saudization went into effect from September 2018, wherein car dealerships and sellers of clothing, furniture and household utensils would employ locals in approximately 70% of sales job. The reform is expected to create 60,000 jobs for Saudis. However, the demand is of 700,000 positions by 2020. The Saudi private sector is still in a very difficult phase, being dominated mostly by foreigners.\n\nNitaqat is a program of Saudization, increasing the employment of Saudi nationals in the private sector. The program classifies the country's private firms into six categories: Platinum, High Green, Mid Green, Low Green, Yellow and Red. Platinum is the highest percentage category followed by High Green and so on, the Yellow and Red categories being the lowest. \n\nNitaqat requires employers in the private sector with over 9 employees to hire a certain percentage of Saudi nationals, depending on the company’s industry and the number of employees in the company. Companies with less than 10 employees are exempt from the zoning system but are still required to hire at least one Saudi national.\n\nThe classification of other companies is based on the Saudization percentage (% of Saudi employees) and the total number of employees. The companies with less than 10 employees are exempt from the program, but still need to employ at least one Saudi citizen. Rapid visa services are available only to businesses that are in the platinum category of the Nitaqat system to improve employment for Saudis.\n\nThe initiative was announced in June 2011, when the Ministry of Labour passed Ministerial Resolution no. (4040). The implementation deadline for the program was in 2013. Nearly 90,000 Indians left Saudi by the end of October 2013. About 466,689 Indian workers have renewed their iqamas (resident permit) over the last five months of the grace period, 359,997 workers have transferred their sponsorship and 355,035 workers changed their job titles to legalize their status (e.g.: profession change, sponsorship change etc.) reports the Financial Express. More than 200,000 private firms were closed down in 2014 for failing to meet the conditions set within the Nitaqat nationalization program aimed at reducing unemployment among Saudis.\n\nThe companies receive incentives or penalties depending on the category they belong to: and a full list of percentage breakdown by industry and company size is available. \n\nMale and female are now equal when being taken into consideration for Saudization percentages. Previously a female Saudi employee was counted as two male Saudis for Saudization purposed but this is no longer the case. Also taken into consideration for Saudization percentages is a non Saudi national employee, male or female, who is currently married to a Saudi national.\n\nAn official at the Ministry of Labour said inspection teams from the ministry are closely monitoring companies who have been exploiting people with disabilities in order to encourage their Saudization rates. The officials check on employees with disabilities during inspection rounds to identify the nature of the work, their presence at the job, and the type of arrangements and services provided to them, noting that the number of people with disabilities employed at a facility cannot exceed 10 percent. If employees with disabilities in a firm exceed more than 10 percent of the total number of Saudi employees, then each disabled worker is calculated like any other Saudi. “It is unfortunate that there are some companies and individuals who exploit people with disabilities to pump up their Saudization rates,”and Saudi workers with disabilities who are able to work are counted as four employees in the Saudization ratio. They must be paid a minimum monthly wage of 3,000 riyals and should not be counted as part of the Saudization ratio of another establishment. To recent reports which reveal that companies have been hiring Saudis with disabilities in order to boost Saudization rates as these disabled employees count as 4 employees, thus saving the company from hiring able-bodied Saudi employees at higher salaries. An executive at a private company said there are some people with disabilities who present themselves to the companies for employment in return for salaries, bonuses, and benefits. Companies are thus paying less to a disabled employee who is equal to four Saudis than they would if they hired four Saudis with salaries of more than SR 20,000 each. They offer their services. Some companies accept, refuse, others added. The Ministry of Labour and other agencies work together regarding the issue of employees with disabilities, noting that the Ministry of Labor determines the nature of disability upon interviewing the employee. They currently posted a draft to the disability employment legislation on the “Together We Improve” portal for discussion before making a decision to amend the definition of disability work and conditions for employment stipulated in Article 13. Disabled employee to count as more than one employee in Nitaqat, the individual must hold a license or identification card from the Ministry of Social Affairs or Ministry of Labor indicating the type and degree of disability. Further, work conditions and systems must be acceptable and suitable for employees based on the type of disability, and establishments should ensure all services are in place before the employee begins work.\n\nSaudi Arabia has completed regularisation of nearly four million foreign workers in the second quarter of 2013 as part of its `Nitaqat` programme, with 1.18 million expats choosing to change their profession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18877321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18877321", "title": "Shokei Matsui", "text": "Shokei Matsui\n\n, also known by his Korean name of Moon Jang-gyu (Hangul: 문장규; Hanja: 文章圭), is a master of Kyokushin karate and current \"Kancho\" (Director) of the , one faction of the International Karate Organization (IKO) founded by Mas Oyama (1923–1994).\n\nMatsui was born in 1963 and started training in Kyokushin karate at age 13. In 1976, he joined the Kita Nagare-Yama Dojo in Chiba Prefecture and attained the rank of 1st \"dan\" black belt in a little over one year.\n\nMatsui completed the 100-man kumite in 1987, when ranked 4th \"dan\". In May 1992, Matsui opened his own \"dojo\" in Asakusa, Tokyo, and was later appointed as a Branch Chief by Oyama.\n\nNear the end of his life, some say that Oyama named Matsui (then ranked 5th \"dan\", and clearly junior in rank to several senior instructors) to succeed him in leading the IKO. However this has been disputed with his family and Matsui. Reportedly, a letter by senior Kyokushin instructor Peter Chong noted that Matsui was surprised to hear that he had been appointed to succeed Oyama, but also that Oyama had earlier named Matsui before several other people as the leading candidate to succeed him. Matsui then became \"Kancho\" (Director). Following a dispute over the veracity of Oyama's will, Kyokushin karate as an organization divided into three main groups, led by Matsui, Kenji Midori, and Yoshikazu Matsushima.\n\nMatsui is currently ranked 8th \"dan\", and leads one of the IKO groups, supported by Yuzo Goda,Bijan Fard, Bobby Lowe, Peter Chong, and Seiji Isobe. Loek Hollander had previously supported Matsui, but withdrew his support in August 2010.\n\nMatsui's tournament achievements include:\n\n"}
{"id": "11231994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11231994", "title": "Spotfire", "text": "Spotfire\n\nTIBCO Spotfire is an analytics platform. It was a business intelligence company based in Somerville, Massachusetts that was bought by TIBCO in 2007. The new A(X) experience was launched in November 2018 and includes natural language search and AI-powered insights, reimagined user interface, automated data flows, and real-time data streams.\n\nSpotfire's origins trace back to the University of Maryland Human-Computer Interaction Lab at the University of Maryland, College Park where, a visiting student from Sweden in the early 1990s, Christopher Ahlberg, worked with Ben Shneiderman to develop applications of dynamic queries. Ahlberg returned to Sweden and developed an enhanced UNIX implementation of his visual data analysis tool, the Information Visualization and Exploration Environment (IVEE). Spotfire was launched in mid-1996 by IVEE Development, which was renamed Spotfire Inc.\n\nOn May 2, 2007 it was announced that TIBCO would buy the company. In November 2011, TIBCO added business intelligence (BI) and analytics software Spotfire 4.0 with Microsoft SharePoint integration. TIBCO Spotfire customers can be found in all industry sectors and used in a variety of ways, incorporating data science and artificial intelligence. Many people don't realize that they use TIBCO Spotfire everyday flying with JetBlue, getting better care with University of Chicago Medicineresearch, managing finances through Equifax, buying General Mills food, staying at Accor Hotels and much more. In 2018, TIBCO announced the latest version - Spotfire X. Spotfire X is the only visual analytics solution in the market that offers multiple interactive modes from augmented analytics powered by NLG and machine learning to automation and agile data exploration - to make analysis easy for all skill levels, preferences, and speeding adoption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24462384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24462384", "title": "The Wall Street Transcript", "text": "The Wall Street Transcript\n\nThe Wall Street Transcript is a paid subscription publication and Web site that publishes bi-weekly industry reports that feature equity analyst, money manager and CEO interviews. Reports typically cover two to three industries and express money managers' and analysts' views on each of the various industry sectors, as well as interviews with CEOs whose companies operate within the covered industries.\n\nIn publication since 1963, \"The Wall Street Transcript\" is a publication in the finance community, which has interviewed the CEOs and senior executives of public companies, money managers handling billions of dollars of assets, and equity analysts from leading investment banks around the world and publishing these interviews verbatim. \"The Wall Street Transcript\" does not endorse the views of those interviewed, nor does it make stock recommendations. The \"Wall Street Transcript\" highlights micro-cap and small-cap stocks that may go overlooked by many investors, while its CEO interviews often offer commentary to investors in larger-cap stocks as well. Large investment houses such as Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, and Goldman Sachs contribute their opinions on various market topics regularly to \"The Wall Street Transcript\".\n\n\"The Wall Street Transcript\" has been awarded various awards and accolades, as well as having been cited by \"Forbes\" as the Best Web Site Publication for Stock Picking. It has around 200,000 readers every month, 5,000 readers who choose to receive publications in print; furthermore 67 percent of these readers invest more than $75,000 annually and 71 percent of the readers have annual incomes greater than $100,000.\n\nSeeking Alpha, a free provider of financial and stock analysis from blogs, newsletters and money managers, publishes excerpts of \"Wall Street Transcript\" reports on its Web site.\n\nNotable CEOs who have interviewed with \"The Wall Street Transcript\" include William P. Lauder, executive chairman and chairman of The Estee Lauder Companies' board of directors, MGM Mirage Chairman and CEO James J. Murren and John Wareham, CEO of Beckman Coulter.\n\nAnalysts and money managers from investment firms such as Goldman Sachs & Co., UBS, Credit Suisse and RBC Capital Markets have also appeared in interviews with \"The Wall Street Transcript\".\n\nRichard Holman (1923–2000) was the founder, owner and CEO of the \"Wall Street Transcript\" from 1963 to 1998. After a brief career in investment banking, Holman founded the \"Transcript\", believing that investment professionals and casual investors would be willing to pay for information that would help them pick stocks.\n\nFrom the late 1960s through late 1970s, Holman was involved in a series of court cases with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (S.E.C.), focused around whether the \"Wall Street Transcript\" published investment news or investment advice. The case ultimately ended in 1978 with \"S.E.C. v. Wall Street Transcript\", in which the publication was determined to be a legitimate news organization and not an investment adviser.\n\nHolman was born in New York City, son of former New York state assemblyman Abraham Goodman. He graduated from Cornell University and served in the Army during World War II in Japan and the Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "17626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17626", "title": "Trade union", "text": "Trade union\n\nA trade union, also called a labour union or labor union (US), is an organization of workers who have come together to achieve many common goals, such as protecting the integrity of its trade, improving safety standards, and attaining better wages, benefits (such as vacation, health care, and retirement), and working conditions through the increased bargaining power wielded by the creation of a monopoly of the workers. The trade union, through its leadership, bargains with the employer on behalf of union members (rank and file members) and negotiates labour contracts (collective bargaining) with employers. The most common purpose of these associations or unions is \"maintaining or improving the conditions of their employment\". This may include the negotiation of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, firing and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace safety and policies.\n\nUnions may organize a particular section of skilled workers (craft unionism), a cross-section of workers from various trades (general unionism), or attempt to organize all workers within a particular industry (industrial unionism). The agreements negotiated by a union are binding on the rank and file members and the employer and in some cases on other non-member workers. Trade unions traditionally have a constitution which details the governance of their bargaining unit and also have governance at various levels of government depending on the industry that binds them legally to their negotiations and functioning.\n\nOriginating in Great Britain, trade unions became popular in many countries during the Industrial Revolution. Trade unions may be composed of individual workers, professionals, past workers, students, apprentices or the unemployed. Trade union density, or the percentage of workers belonging to a trade union, is highest in the Nordic countries.\n\nSince the publication of the \"History of Trade Unionism\" (1894) by Sidney and Beatrice Webb, the predominant historical view is that a trade union \"is a continuous association of wage earners for the purpose of maintaining or improving the conditions of their employment.\" Karl Marx described trade unions thus: \"The value of labour-power constitutes the conscious and explicit foundation of the trade unions, whose importance for the […] working class can scarcely be overestimated. The trade unions aim at nothing less than to prevent the reduction of wages below the level that is traditionally maintained in the various branches of industry. That is to say, they wish to prevent the price of labour-power from falling below its value\" (\"Capital\" V1, 1867, p. 1069).\n\nA modern definition by the Australian Bureau of Statistics states that a trade union is \"an organization consisting predominantly of employees, the principal activities of which include the negotiation of rates of pay and conditions of employment for its members.\"\n\nYet historian R.A. Leeson, in \"United we Stand\" (1971), said:\nRecent historical research by Bob James in \"Craft, Trade or Mystery\" (2001) puts forward the view that trade unions are part of a broader movement of benefit societies, which includes medieval guilds, Freemasons, Oddfellows, friendly societies, and other fraternal organizations.\n\nThe 18th century economist Adam Smith noted the imbalance in the rights of workers in regards to owners (or \"masters\"). In \"The Wealth of Nations\", , Smith wrote:\n\nAs Smith noted, unions were illegal for many years in most countries, although Smith argued that it should remain illegal to fix wages or prices by employees or employers. There were severe penalties for attempting to organize unions, up to and including execution. Despite this, unions were formed and began to acquire political power, eventually resulting in a body of labour law that not only legalized organizing efforts, but codified the relationship between employers and those employees organized into unions.\n\nThe origins of trade unions can be traced back to 18th century Britain, where the rapid expansion of industrial society then taking place, drew women, children, rural workers and immigrants into the work force in large numbers and in new roles. This pool of unskilled and semi-skilled labour spontaneously organized in fits and starts throughout its beginnings, and would later be an important arena for the development of trade unions. Trade unions have sometimes been seen as successors to the guilds of medieval Europe, though the relationship between the two is disputed, as the masters of the guilds employed workers (apprentices and journeymen) who were not allowed to organize.\n\nTrade unions and collective bargaining were outlawed from no later than the middle of the 14th century when the Ordinance of Labourers was enacted in the Kingdom of England. As collective bargaining and early worker unions grew with the onset of the Industrial Revolution, the government began to clamp down on what it saw as the danger of popular unrest at the time of the Napoleonic Wars. In 1799, the Combination Act was passed, which banned trade unions and collective bargaining by British workers. Although the unions were subject to often severe repression until 1824, they were already widespread in cities such as London. Workplace militancy had also manifested itself as Luddism and had been prominent in struggles such as the 1820 Rising in Scotland, in which 60,000 workers went on a general strike, which was soon crushed. Sympathy for the plight of the workers brought repeal of the acts in 1824, although the Combination Act 1825 severely restricted their activity.\n\nBy the 1810s, the first labour organizations to bring together workers of divergent occupations were formed. Possibly the first such union was the General Union of Trades, also known as the Philanthropic Society, founded in 1818 in Manchester. The latter name was to hide the organization's real purpose in a time when trade unions were still illegal.\n\nThe first attempts at setting up a national general union were made in the 1820s and 30s. The National Association for the Protection of Labour was established in 1830 by John Doherty, after an apparently unsuccessful attempt to create a similar national presence with the National Union of Cotton-spinners. The Association quickly enrolled approximately 150 unions, consisting mostly of textile related unions, but also including mechanics, blacksmiths, and various others. Membership rose to between 10,000 and 20,000 individuals spread across the five counties of Lancashire, Cheshire, Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire and Leicestershire within a year. To establish awareness and legitimacy, the union started the weekly \"Voice of the People\" publication, having the declared intention \"to unite the productive classes of the community in one common bond of union.\"\n\nIn 1834, the Welsh socialist Robert Owen established the Grand National Consolidated Trades Union. The organization attracted a range of socialists from Owenites to revolutionaries and played a part in the protests after the Tolpuddle Martyrs' case, but soon collapsed.\n\nMore permanent trade unions were established from the 1850s, better resourced but often less radical. The London Trades Council was founded in 1860, and the Sheffield Outrages spurred the establishment of the Trades Union Congress in 1868, the first long-lived national trade union center. By this time, the existence and the demands of the trade unions were becoming accepted by liberal middle class opinion. In \"Principles of Political Economy\" (1871) John Stuart Mill wrote:\n\nIf it were possible for the working classes, by combining among themselves, to raise or keep up the general rate of wages, it needs hardly be said that this would be a thing not to be punished, but to be welcomed and rejoiced at. Unfortunately the effect is quite beyond attainment by such means. The multitudes who compose the working class are too numerous and too widely scattered to combine at all, much more to combine effectually. If they could do so, they might doubtless succeed in diminishing the hours of labour, and obtaining the same wages for less work. They would also have a limited power of obtaining, by combination, an increase of general wages at the expense of profits.\n\nTrade unions were finally legalized in 1872, after a \"Royal Commission on Trade Unions\" in 1867 agreed that the establishment of the organizations was to the advantage of both employers and employees.\n\nThis period also saw the growth of trade unions in other industrializing countries, especially the United States, Germany and France.\n\nIn the United States, the first effective nationwide labour organization was the Knights of Labor, in 1869, which began to grow after 1880. Legalization occurred slowly as a result of a series of court decisions. The Federation of Organized Trades and Labor Unions began in 1881 as a federation of different unions that did not directly enrol workers. In 1886, it became known as the American Federation of Labor or AFL.\n\nIn Germany the Free Association of German Trade Unions was formed in 1897 after the conservative Anti-Socialist Laws of Chancellor Otto von Bismarck were repealed.\n\nIn France, labour organization was illegal until 1884. The Bourse du Travail was founded in 1887 and merged with the Fédération nationale des syndicats (National Federation of Trade Unions) in 1895 to form the General Confederation of Labour (France).\n\nThe prevalence of unions in various countries can be measured by the concept of \"union density\", which is expressed as a percentage of the total number of workers in a given location who are trade union members. Trade union density around the world shows great variation.\nSupporters of unions, such as the ACTU or Australian Labor Party (ALP), often credit trade unions with leading the labour movement in the early 20th century. This generally sought to end child labour practices, improve worker safety, increase wages for both union workers and non-union workers, raise the entire society's standard of living, reduce the hours in a work week, provide public education for children, and bring other benefits to working class families.\n\nMelbourne Trades Hall was opened in 1859 with Trades and Labour Councils and Trades Halls opening in all cities and most regional towns in the following forty years. During the 1880s Trade unions developed among shearers, miners, and stevedores (wharf workers), but soon spread to cover almost all blue-collar jobs. Shortages of labour led to high wages for a prosperous skilled working class, whose unions demanded and got an eight-hour day and other benefits unheard of in Europe.\n\nAustralia gained a reputation as \"the working man's paradise.\" Some employers tried to undercut the unions by importing Chinese labour. This produced a reaction which led to all the colonies restricting Chinese and other Asian immigration. This was the foundation of the White Australia Policy. The \"Australian compact\", based around centralised industrial arbitration, a degree of government assistance particularly for primary industries, and White Australia, was to continue for many years before gradually dissolving in the second half of the 20th century.\n\nIn the 1870s and 1880s, the growing trade union movement began a series of protests against foreign labour. Their arguments were that Asians and Chinese took jobs away from white men, worked for \"substandard\" wages, lowered working conditions and refused unionisation.\n\nObjections to these arguments came largely from wealthy land owners in rural areas. It was argued that without Asiatics to work in the tropical areas of the Northern Territory and Queensland, the area would have to be abandoned. Despite these objections to restricting immigration, between 1875 and 1888 all Australian colonies enacted legislation which excluded all further Chinese immigration. Asian immigrants already residing in the Australian colonies were not expelled and retained the same rights as their Anglo and Southern compatriots.\n\nThe Barton Government which came to power following the first elections to the Commonwealth parliament in 1901 was formed by the Protectionist Party with the support of the Australian Labor Party. The support of the Labor Party was contingent upon restricting non-white immigration, reflecting the attitudes of the Australian Workers Union and other labour organisations at the time, upon whose support the Labor Party was founded.\n\nIn the Baltic states trade unions were the part of the Soviet Union trade union system and closely connected with the party in the state. Industrial actions were not a part of their activities. After 1990 trade unions in the Baltic states have experienced rapid loss of membership and economic power, while employers’ organisations increased both power and membership. Low financial and organisational capacity caused by declining membership adds to the problem of interest definition, aggregation and protection in negotiations with employers’ and state organisations. Even the difference exists in the way of organization trade union and density. Starting from 2008 the union density slightly decrease in Latvia and Lithuania. In case of Estonia this indicator is lower than in Latvia and Lithuania but stays stable average 7 percent from total number of employment.\n\nWith 65% of the workers belonging to a union Belgium is a country with one of the highest percentages of labour union membership. Only the Scandinavian countries have a higher labour union density. The biggest union with around 1.7 million members is the Christian democrat Confederation of Christian Trade Unions (ACV-CSC) which was founded in 1904. The origins of the union can be traced back to the \"Anti-Socialist Cotton Workers Union\" that was founded in 1886. The second biggest union is the socialist General Federation of Belgian Labour (ABVV-FGTB) which has a membership of more than 1.5 million. The ABVV-FGTB traces its origins to 1857, when the first Belgian union was founded in Ghent by a group of weavers. The socialist union, in its current form, was founded in 1898. The third 'big' union in Belgium is the liberal General Confederation of Liberal Trade Unions of Belgium (ACLVB-CGSLB) which is relatively small in comparison to the first two with a little under 290 thousand members. The ACLVB-CGSLB was founded in 1920 in an effort to unite the many small liberal unions. Back then the liberal union was known as the \"Nationale Centrale der Liberale Vakbonden van België\". In 1930, the ACLVB-CGSLB adopted its current name.\n\nBesides these \"big three\" there is a long list of smaller unions, some more influential then others. These smaller unions tend to specialize in one profession or economic sector. Next to these specialized unions there is also the that reject the pillarization that, according to them, the \"big three\" represent. There is also a small Flemish nationalist union that exists only in the Flemish-speaking part of Belgium, called the . The last Belgian union worth mentioning is the very small, but highly active anarchist union called the .\n\nLabour unions have existed in Canada since the early 1800s. There is a record of skilled tradesmen in the Maritimes having a union organization during the War of 1812. Canadian unionism had early ties with Britain. Tradesmen who came from Britain brought traditions of the British trade union movement, and many British unions had branches in Canada. Canadian unionism ties with the United States eventually replaced those with Britain.\n\nCollective bargaining was first recognized in 1945, following a strike by the United Auto Workers at the General Motors' plant in Oshawa, Ontario.\nJustice Ivan Rand issued a landmark legal decision following a strike in Windsor, Ontario, involving 17,000 Ford workers. He granted the union the compulsory check-off of union dues. Rand ruled that all workers in a bargaining unit benefit from a union-negotiated contract. Therefore, he reasoned they must pay union dues, although they do not have to join the union.\n\nThe post-World War II era also saw an increased pattern of unionization in the public service. Teachers, nurses, social workers, professors and cultural workers (those employed in museums, orchestras and art galleries) all sought private-sector collective bargaining rights. The Canadian Labour Congress was founded in 1956 as the national trade union center for Canada.\n\nIn the 1970s the federal government came under intense pressures to curtail labour cost and inflation. In 1975, the Liberal government of Pierre Trudeau introduced mandatory price and wage controls. Under the new law, wages increases were monitored and those ruled to be unacceptably high were rolled back by the government.\n\nPressures on unions continued into the 1980s and '90s. Private sector unions faced plant closures in many manufacturing industries and demands to reduce wages and increase productivity. Public sector unions came under attack by federal and provincial governments as they attempted to reduce spending, reduce taxes and balance budgets. Legislation was introduced in many jurisdictions reversing union collective bargaining rights, and many jobs were lost to contractors.\n\nProminent domestic unions in Canada include ACTRA, the Canadian Union of Postal Workers, the Canadian Union of Public Employees, the Public Service Alliance of Canada, the National Union of Public and General Employees, and Unifor. International unions active in Canada include the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, United Automobile Workers, United Food and Commercial Workers, and United Steelworkers.\n\nUntil around 1990 Colombian trade unions were among the strongest in Latin America. However, the 1980s expansion of paramilitarism in Colombia saw trade union leaders and members increasingly targeted for assassination, and as a result Colombia has been the most dangerous country in the world for trade unionists for several decades. Between 2000 and 2010 Colombia accounted for 63.12% of trade unionists murdered globally. According to the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) there were 2832 murders of trade unionists between 1 January 1986 and 30 April 2010, meaning that \"on average, men and women trade unionists in Colombia have been killed at the rate of one every three days over the last 23 years.\"\n\nIn Costa Rica, trade unions first appeared in the late 1800s to support workers in a variety of urban and industrial jobs, such as railroad builders and craft tradesmen. After facing violent repression, such as during the 1934 United Fruit Strike, unions gained more power following the 1948 Costa Rican Civil War. Today, Costa Rican unions are strongest in the public sector, including the fields of education and medicine, but also have a strong presence in the agricultural sector. In general, Costa Rican unions support government regulation of the banking, medical, and education fields, as well as improved wages and working conditions.\n\nTrade unions in Germany have a history reaching back to the German revolution in 1848, and still play an important role in the German economy and society. In 1875 the SPD, the Social Democratic Party of Germany, which is one of the biggest political parties in Germany, supported the forming of unions in Germany. The most important labour organisation is the German Confederation of Trade Unions \"(Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund – DGB)\", which represents more than 6 million people (31 December 2011) and is the umbrella association of several single trade unions for special economic sectors. The DBG is not the only Union Organization that represents the working trade. There are smaller organizations, such as the CGB, which is a Christian-based confederation, that represent over 1.5 million people.\n\nIn India, the Trade Union movement is generally divided on political lines. According to provisional statistics from the Ministry of Labour, trade unions had a combined membership of 24,601,589 in 2002. As of 2008, there are 11 Central Trade Union Organisations (CTUO) recognized by the Ministry of Labour. The forming of these unions was a big deal in India. It led to a big push for more regulatory laws which gave workers a lot more power.\n\nA trade union with nearly 2,000,000 members is the Self Employed Women's Association (SEWA) which protects the rights of Indian women working in the informal economy. In addition to the protection of rights, SEWA educates, mobilizes, finances, and exalts their members' trades. Multiple other organizations represent workers. These organizations are formed upon different political groups. These different groups allow different groups of people with different political views to join a Union.\n\nLabour unions emerged in Japan in the second half of the Meiji period as the country underwent a period of rapid industrialization. Until 1945, however, the labour movement remained weak, impeded by lack of legal rights, anti-union legislation, management-organised factory councils, and political divisions between “cooperative” and radical unionists. In the immediate aftermath of the Second World War, the US Occupation authorities initially encouraged the formation of independent unions. Legislation was passed that enshrined the right to organise, and membership rapidly rose to 5 million by February 1947. The organisation rate, however, peaked at 55.8% in 1949 and subsequently declined to 18.2% (2006). The labour movement went through a process of reorganisation from 1987 to 1991 from which emerged the present configuration of three major labour union federations, Rengo, Zenroren, and Zenrokyo, along with other smaller national union organisations.\n\nBefore the 1990s, unions in Mexico had been historically part of a state institutional system. From 1940 until the 1980s, worldwide spread of neo-liberalism through the Washington Consensus, the Mexican unions did not operate independently, but instead as part of a state institutional system, largely controlled by the ruling party.\n\nDuring these 40 years, the primary aim of the labour unions was not to benefit the workers, but to carry out the state's economic policy under their cosy relationship with the ruling party. This economic policy, which peaked in the 1950s and 60s with the so-called \"Mexican Miracle\", saw rising incomes and improved standards of living but the primary beneficiaries were the wealthy.\n\nIn the 1980s, Mexico began adhering to Washington Consensus policies, selling off state industries such as railroad and telecommunications to private industries. The new owners had an antagonistic attitude towards unions, which, accustomed to comfortable relationships with the state, were not prepared to fight back. A movement of new unions began to emerge under a more independent model, while the former institutionalized unions had become very corrupt, violent, and led by gangsters. From the 1990s onwards, this new model of independent unions prevailed, a number of them represented by the National Union of Workers / Unión Nacional de Trabajadores.\n\nCurrent old institutions like the Oil Workers Union and the National Education Workers' Union (\"Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Educación\", or SNTE) are examples of how the use of government benefits are not being applied to improve the quality in the investigation of the use of oil or the basic education in Mexico as long as their leaders show publicly that they are living wealthily. With 1.4 million members, the teachers' union is Latin America's largest; half of Mexico's government employees are teachers. It controls school curriculums, and all teacher appointments. Until recently, retiring teachers routinely \"gave\" their lifelong appointment to a relative or \"sell\" it for anywhere in between $4,700 and $11,800.\n\nTrade unions (Danish: \"Fagforeninger\", Swedish: \"Fackföreningar\") have a long tradition in Scandinavian society. Beginning in the mid-19th century, they today have a large impact on the nature of employment and workers' rights in many of the Nordic countries. One of the largest trade unions in Sweden is the Swedish Confederation of Trade Unions, (LO, \"Landsorganisationen\"), incorporating unions such as the Swedish Metal Workers' Union (\"IF Metall\" = \"Industrifacket Metall\"), the Swedish Electricians' Union (Svenska Elektrikerförbundet) and the Swedish Municipality Workers' Union (\"Svenska Kommunalarbetareförbundet\", abbreviated \"Kommunal\"). One of the aims of IF Metall is to transform jobs into \"good jobs\", also called \"developing jobs\".\n\nToday, the world's highest rates of union membership are in the Scandinavian countries. In 2010, the percentage of workers belonging to a union (labour union density) was 68.3% in Sweden and 54.8% in Norway, while it was 34.9% in Ireland and 18.4% in Germany. Excluding full-time students working part-time, Swedish union density was 69% in 2015-2017. In all the Nordic countries with a Ghent system—Sweden, Denmark and Finland—union density is about 70%. The considerably raised membership fees of Swedish union unemployment funds implemented by the new center-right government in January 2007 caused large drops in membership in both unemployment funds and trade unions. From 2006 to 2008, union density declined by six percentage points: from 77% to 71%.\n\nModerate New Model Unions dominated the union movement from the mid-19th century and where trade unionism was stronger than the political labour movement until the formation and growth of the Labour Party in the early years of the 20th century.\n\nTrade unionism in the United Kingdom was a major factor in some of the economic crises during the 1960s and the 1970s, culminating in the \"Winter of Discontent\" of late 1978 and early 1979, when a significant percentage of the nation's public sector workers went on strike. By this stage, some 12,000,000 workers in the United Kingdom were trade union members. However, the election of the Conservative Party led by Margaret Thatcher at the general election in May 1979, at the expense of Labour's James Callaghan, saw substantial trade union reform which saw the level of strikes fall. The level of trade union membership also fell sharply in the 1980s, and continued falling for most of the 1990s. The long decline of most of the industries in which manual trade unions were strong – e.g. steel, coal, printing, the docks – was one of the causes of this loss of trade union members.\n\nIn 2011 there were 6,135,126 members in TUC-affiliated unions, down from a peak of 12,172,508 in 1980. Trade union density was 14.1% in the private sector and 56.5% in the public sector.\n\nLabour unions are legally recognized as representatives of workers in many industries in the United States. In the United States, trade unions were formed based on power with the people, not over the people like the government at the time. Their activity today centres on collective bargaining over wages, benefits and working conditions for their membership, and on representing their members in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions. Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying activities and supporting endorsed candidates at the state and federal level.\n\nMost unions in America are aligned with one of two larger umbrella organizations: the AFL-CIO created in 1955, and the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005. Both advocate policies and legislation on behalf of workers in the United States and Canada, and take an active role in politics. The AFL-CIO is especially concerned with global trade issues.\nIn 2010, the percentage of workers belonging to a union in the United States (or total labour union \"density\") was 11.4%, compared to 18.3% in Japan, 27.5% in Canada and 70% in Finland. Union membership in the private sector has fallen under 7% – levels not seen since 1932. Unions allege that employer-incited opposition has contributed to this decline in membership.\n\nThe most prominent unions are among public sector employees such as teachers, police and other non-managerial or non-executive federal, state, county and municipal employees. Members of unions are disproportionately older, male and residents of the Northeast, the Midwest, and California.\n\nUnion workers in the private sector average 10-30% higher pay than non-union in America after controlling for individual, job, and labour market characteristics. Because of their inherently governmental function, public sector workers are paid the same regardless of union affiliation or non-affiliation after controlling for individual, job, and labour market characteristics.\n\nThe economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that, \"Strong unions have helped to reduce inequality, whereas weaker unions have made it easier for CEOs, sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape, to increase it.\" The decline in unionization since the Second World War in the United States has been associated with a pronounced rise in income and wealth inequality and, since 1967, with loss of middle class income.\n\nThe Association of Vatican Lay Workers represents lay employees in the Vatican.\n\nUnions may organize a particular section of skilled workers (craft unionism, traditionally found in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the US), a cross-section of workers from various trades (general unionism, traditionally found in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Netherlands, the UK and the US), or attempt to organize all workers within a particular industry (industrial unionism, found in Australia, Canada, Germany, Finland, Norway, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the US). These unions are often divided into \"locals\", and united in national federations. These federations themselves will affiliate with Internationals, such as the International Trade Union Confederation. However, in Japan, union organization is slightly different due to the presence of enterprise unions, i.e. unions that are specific to a specific plant or company. These enterprise unions, however, join industry-wide federations which in turn are members of Rengo, the Japanese national trade union confederation.\n\nIn Western Europe, professional associations often carry out the functions of a trade union. In these cases, they may be negotiating for white-collar or professional workers, such as physicians, engineers or teachers. Typically such trade unions refrain from politics or pursue a more liberal politics than their blue-collar counterparts.\n\nA union may acquire the status of a \"juristic person\" (an artificial legal entity), with a mandate to negotiate with employers for the workers it represents. In such cases, unions have certain legal rights, most importantly the right to engage in collective bargaining with the employer (or employers) over wages, working hours, and other terms and conditions of employment. The inability of the parties to reach an agreement may lead to industrial action, culminating in either strike action or management lockout, or binding arbitration. In extreme cases, violent or illegal activities may develop around these events.\nIn other circumstances, unions may not have the legal right to represent workers, or the right may be in question. This lack of status can range from non-recognition of a union to political or criminal prosecution of union activists and members, with many cases of violence and deaths having been recorded historically.\n\nUnions may also engage in broader political or social struggle. Social Unionism encompasses many unions that use their organizational strength to advocate for social policies and legislation favourable to their members or to workers in general. As well, unions in some countries are closely aligned with political parties.\n\nUnions are also delineated by the service model and the organizing model. The service model union focuses more on maintaining worker rights, providing services, and resolving disputes. Alternately, the organizing model typically involves full-time union organizers, who work by building up confidence, strong networks, and leaders within the workforce; and confrontational campaigns involving large numbers of union members. Many unions are a blend of these two philosophies, and the definitions of the models themselves are still debated.\n\nIn Britain, the perceived left-leaning nature of trade unions has resulted in the formation of a reactionary right-wing trade union called Solidarity which is supported by the far-right BNP. In Denmark, there are some newer apolitical \"discount\" unions who offer a very basic level of services, as opposed to the dominating Danish pattern of extensive services and organizing.\n\nIn contrast, in several European countries (e.g. Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands and Switzerland), religious unions have existed for decades. These unions typically distanced themselves from some of the doctrines of orthodox Marxism, such as the preference of atheism and from rhetoric suggesting that employees' interests always are in conflict with those of employers. Some of these Christian unions have had some ties to centrist or conservative political movements and some do not regard strikes as acceptable political means for achieving employees' goals. In Poland, the biggest trade union Solidarity emerged as an anti-communist movement with religious nationalist overtones and today it supports the right-wing Law and Justice party.\n\nAlthough their political structure and autonomy varies widely, union leaderships are usually formed through democratic elections. Some research, such as that conducted by the Australian Centre for Industrial Relations Research and Training, argues that unionized workers enjoy better conditions and wages than those who are not unionized.\n\nCompanies that employ workers with a union generally operate on one of several models:\n\nAn EU case concerning Italy stated that, \"The principle of trade union freedom in the Italian system implies recognition of the right of the individual not to belong to any trade union (\"negative\" freedom of association/trade union freedom), and the unlawfulness of discrimination liable to cause harm to non-unionized employees.\"\n\nIn Britain, previous to this EU jurisprudence, a series of laws introduced during the 1980s by Margaret Thatcher's government restricted closed and union shops. All agreements requiring a worker to join a union are now illegal. In the United States, the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 outlawed the closed shop.\n\nIn 2006, the European Court of Human Rights found Danish closed-shop agreements to be in breach of Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It was stressed that Denmark and Iceland were among a limited number of contracting states that continue to permit the conclusion of closed-shop agreements.\n\nUnion law varies from country to country, as does the function of unions. For example, German and Dutch unions have played a greater role in management decisions through participation in corporate boards and co-determination than have unions in the United States. Moreover, in the United States, collective bargaining is most commonly undertaken by unions directly with employers, whereas in Austria, Denmark, Germany or Sweden, unions most often negotiate with employers associations.\n\nConcerning labour market regulation in the EU, Gold (1993) and Hall (1994) have identified three distinct systems of labour market regulation, which also influence the role that unions play:\n\nThe United States takes a more laissez-faire approach, setting some minimum standards but leaving most workers' wages and benefits to collective bargaining and market forces. Thus, it comes closest to the above Anglo-Saxon model. Also, the Eastern European countries that have recently entered into the EU come closest to the Anglo-Saxon model.\n\nIn contrast, in Germany, the relation between individual employees and employers is considered to be asymmetrical. In consequence, many working conditions are not negotiable due to a strong legal protection of individuals. However, the German flavor or works legislation has as its main objective to create a balance of power between employees organized in unions and employers organized in employers associations. This allows much wider legal boundaries for collective bargaining, compared to the narrow boundaries for individual negotiations. As a condition to obtain the legal status of a trade union, employee associations need to prove that their leverage is strong enough to serve as a counterforce in negotiations with employers. If such an employees association is competing against another union, its leverage may be questioned by unions and then evaluated in a court trial. In Germany, only very few professional associations obtained the right to negotiate salaries and working conditions for their members, notably the medical doctors association Marburger Bund and the pilots association Vereinigung Cockpit. The engineers association Verein Deutscher Ingenieure does not strive to act as a union, as it also represents the interests of engineering businesses.\n\nBeyond the classification listed above, unions' relations with political parties vary. In many countries unions are tightly bonded, or even share leadership, with a political party intended to represent the interests of the working class. Typically this is a left-wing, socialist, or social democratic party, but many exceptions exist, including some of the aforementioned Christian unions. In the United States, trade unions are almost always aligned with the Democratic Party with a few exceptions. For example, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters has supported Republican Party candidates on a number of occasions and the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization (PATCO) endorsed Ronald Reagan in 1980. In Britain trade union movement's relationship with the Labour Party frayed as party leadership embarked on privatization plans at odds with what unions see as the worker's interests. However, it has strengthened once more after the Labour party's election of Ed Miliband, who beat his brother David Miliband to become leader of the party after Ed secured the trade union votes. Additionally, in the past, there was a group known as the Conservative Trade Unionists, or CTU, formed of people who sympathized with right wing Tory policy but were Trade Unionists.\n\nHistorically, the Republic of Korea has regulated collective bargaining by requiring employers to participate, but collective bargaining has only been legal if held in sessions before the lunar new year.\n\nThe largest trade union federation in the world is the Brussels-based International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), which has approximately 309 affiliated organizations in 156 countries and territories, with a combined membership of 166 million. The ITUC is a federation of national trade union centres, such as the AFL-CIO in the United States and the Trades Union Congress in the United Kingdom. Other global trade union organizations include the World Federation of Trade Unions.\n\nNational and regional trade unions organizing in specific industry sectors or occupational groups also form global union federations, such as Union Network International, the International Transport Workers Federation, the International Federation of Journalists, the International Arts and Entertainment Alliance or Public Services International.\n\nIn the United States, the outsourcing of labour to Asia, Latin America, and Africa has been partially driven by increasing costs of union partnership, which gives other countries a comparative advantage in labour, making it more profitable to purchase disorganized, low-wage labour from these regions. Milton Friedman, economist and advocate of laissez-faire capitalism, sought to show that unionization produces higher wages (for the union members) at the expense of fewer jobs, and that, if some industries are unionized while others are not, wages will tend to decline in non-unionized industries.\n\nOn the other hand, several studies have emphasized so-called revitalization strategies where trade unions attempt to better represent labour market outsiders, such as the unemployed and precarious workers. Thus, for instance, trade unions in both Nordic and southern European countries have devised collective bargaining agreements that improved the conditions of temporary agency workers.\n\nSeveral sources of current news exist about the trade union movement in the world. These include LabourStart and the official website of the international trade union movement Global Unions. A source of international news about unions is RadioLabour which provides daily (Monday to Friday) news reports.\n\n\"Labor Notes\" is the largest circulation cross-union publication remaining in the United States. It reports news and analysis about union activity or problems facing the labour movement. Another source of union news is the \"Workers Independent News\", a news organization providing radio articles to independent and syndicated radio shows in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBenjamin Brown, \"Trade Unions, Strikes, and the Renewal of Halakhic Labor Law: Ideologies in the Rulings of Rabbis Kook, Uziel, and Feinstein\" \n"}
{"id": "23131679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23131679", "title": "Valeriu Muravschi", "text": "Valeriu Muravschi\n\nValeriu Muravschi (born 31 July 1949 in Sirota, Orhei District) is a Moldovan politician and businessman who served as Prime Minister of Moldova between 28 May 1991 and 1 July 1992.\n\nMuravschi was born in Sirota, Orhei District on 31 July 1949. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics at the \"Sergei Lazo\" Polytechnic Institute in Chişinău.\n\nAfter graduation, Muravschi had a series of jobs in various economic ministries for the Moldavian SSR: he was a senior economist at the State Committee for Prices from 1971 until 1976, chief of the Pricing Section of the Ministry of Building Materials Industry from 1976 until 1984, head of the Department of Finance from 1984 until 1988, and finally director of the Directorate from 1988-1990.\nHe then entered Mircea Druc's cabinet and held the posts of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance from 1990 until 1991. He was appointed Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova in 1991.\n\nMuravschi's term as Prime Minister was dominated by the conflict in Transnistria.\n\nIn 1999, Muravschi founded the National Christian Democratic Peasants Party of Moldova and was president of that party until 2002. It subsequently merged into the Liberal Party and then the Our Moldova Alliance in 2003.\n\nOn 31 July 1999, for \"long and fruitful activity in the state, contributing to the socio-economic development of the republic and high professionalism\", Muravschi was awarded the Order of Work Merit.\n"}
{"id": "25137251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25137251", "title": "Valery Levaneuski", "text": "Valery Levaneuski\n\nValéry Levanéuski (, , ) is a Belarusian political and social activist, former political prisoner. Amnesty International recognizes him as a prisoner of conscience.\n\nValery Levaneuski was born on 15 August 1963 in Grodno in a large family.\n\nIn 1979, candidate for master of sports boxing.\n\nIn 1980 began working career with work as a fitter in mechanical workshops.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1982 served in the Soviet Armed Forces. Expert of Soviet and Bulgarian Army.\n\n1985–1991 – adjuster of radio electronics, mechanic of control and measuring devices and apparatus, engineer in various Grodno enterprises.\n\nIn 1991 registered as an entrepreneur. Directed Grodno regional union for protection of taxpayers’, consumers’ and drivers’ rights, Grodno information and legal center, and Grodno consumer protection center.\n\nSince 1996, Valery Levaneuski has been under close scrutiny by the authorities and subjected to searches, confiscation of property and questioning over various charges.\n\nSince 1996, he leads the strike committee (so-called Stachkom) of entrepreneurs of the Republic of Belarus.\nHe organized numerous mass protests of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Belarus that resulted in him being fined, arrested and prosecuted. He is a founder and chief editor of “The Employer” Republican bulletin. On numerous occasions he participated in elections as a parliamentary candidate for municipal and regional legislative bodies. Every time his registration of a candidate was denied for political reasons.\n\nIn 2001, he ran for President of the Belarus Republic. He broke the slate because of the change of legislation during the elections (Decree #20 from year 2001 ).\n\nIn 2002, the strike committee led by Levaneuski organized a strike of 120,000 small traders calling for President Lukashenko to be ousted and blaming him personally for the suppression of small businesses in Belarus.\n\nIn February 2003, Levaneuski was denied registration as candidate for Deputy.\n\nFrom 15 May 2004 to 15 May 2006 - served sentence of imprisonment in a colony, with confiscation of property, under art. 368, part 2 of the Criminal Code (insult to the President of the Republic of Belarus). Fully served a two-year prison sentence and was released on 15 May 2006.\n\n2004-2006 – served sentence in form of confinement at general regime penal colony with confiscation of property in accordance with part 2, article 368 of Criminal Code of the Republic of Belarus (contempt of the President of the Belarus Republic). Valery Levaunevski could not be released on conditional discharge or on amnesty. While serving his sentence in penal colonies he was penalized in form of placing into disciplinary cell, denial of relatives' visits, and also tortures, threat of homicide from administration of correctional facility. All of it was for the central purpose: for him to sign the public waiver of his political activity. Valery was denied of the qualified medical assistance and medical supervision during the entire term of his imprisonment. He was not allowed to appeal sanctions of prison administration in court.\n\nValery Levaneuski has served his entire 2-year sentence, “done” his time “from start to finish” in various prisons and colonies, including:\n\n\n2010 – release of a documentary “In Government’s Hindsight” dedicated to the development of strike movement of entrepreneurs in Belarus. Valery Levaneuski, main character of the film, tells about importance and dangers of having a business in Belarus. Film was a winner of the 15th All-Polish documental watch BAZAR in Poznań.\n\nOn 8 July 2001, Levaneuski and three members of his initiative group were detained by the police while collecting voters' signatures on a parking lot near the road police station on outskirts of Lida.\n\n29 August 2002 - Two juvenile sons of Valery Levaneuski were arrested in Mogilev while distributing a bulletin titled \"Predprinimatel\" (\"The Entrepreneur\") among vendors at a local outdoor market.\n\nOn 11 October 2002, Valery Levaneuski was arrested in Grodno and charged with violation of Art. 167, par. 1 (\"participation in mass actions violating public order\") of the Belarusian Administrative Offenses Code for holding an authorized rally in protest against recent tax increases and insurance fees for small business owners.\n\nOvernight on 15–16 February 2003, the law-enforcers raided the Grodno house of Valery Levaneuski. The raid commenced at 10.20p.m. and ended at 00.15a.m. Valery has just returned from Minsk. The night visit was carried out with certain acts of violence, applied against Valery’s elder son Dmitry. As a result of the raid was confiscated copying machine and printed production.\n\nIn April 2003, he was arrested while delivering a petition from market traders to the parliament and subsequently sentenced to 15 days' imprisonment for taking part in the \"March for a Better Life\" on 12 March.\n\nOn 19 September 2004, Levaneuski’s son detained at market in Lida for distributing news bulletin.\n\nOn the threshold of 1 May 2004, there were leaflets distributed in Grodno that invited citizens to participate in an approved rally on 1 May. Leaflets also contained the following text:\n\nBecause it was well known that President of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko was spending his vacation in Austria, prosecutor’s office of Belarus has later considered it as a public insult of the President.\n\n1 May 2004 Levaneuski was going to participate in a demonstration in Grodno that was approved by government, but in the morning he was detained upon leaving his home. Police officials delivered him to local police department, removed his money and passport and placed him into the temporary detention facility. Same morning Levaneuski’s children were also detained, but they were released from police department several hours later.\n\nOn 3 May 2004 Valery Levaneuski was convicted to 15-day arrest. In violation of law, he was judged not in a court house, but in the cell of the temporary detention facility.\n\nOn 3 May 2004 Uladzimir Levaneuski, son of Valery Levaneuski was convicted for 13-day arrest for active participation in the 1 May protest action.\n\nOn 7 May 2004 officials of State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus and OMON (SWAT) team had broken the entrance door and entered Valery Levaneuski’s apartment. Search had lasted for six hours. All of the computers were seized along with many documents and valuables. Officials of the KGB forced Levaneuski’s underaged daughter to testify against her father. On that day and during the next few days officials from the KGB had conducted searches at Levaneuski’s relatives’ houses and in the offices of non-profit organizations that might have been part of “Insult of President” case.\n\nOn 14 May 2004, one day before expiration of 15-days of arrest, Levaneuski’s detention term was increased for three days.\n\nOn 18 May 2004 Levaneuski was indicted in accordance with part 2, article 368 of Criminal code of Belarus: “Public insult of the President of the Republic of Belarus, conducted by a person, previously convicted for contempt or defamation, or as an incident to accusation in committal of grave or especially grave offence”. Valery was moved from temporary detention facility into the pro-trial detention center for 2 months.\n\n4 June 2004, for the first time since his arrest on May 1, 2004, Valery Levaneuski was allowed to meet with his wife in pro-trial detention center.\n\nOn 12 July 2004 Levaneuski’s arrest was extended for another month.\n\nOn 21 July 2004 Levaneuski’s wife addressed President of Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko with complaints regarding conditions of her husband’s detention in pro-trial detention center.\n\nOn 21 July 2004 criminal case under article 342 of the Criminal code of Belarus “Organization of non-authorized rally”, which provides for arrest for up to 3 years, was filed against his son Uladzimir Levaneuski.\n\n21 July 2004 Valery Levaneuski declared a hunger strike in pre-trial detention center \n\n27 July 2004 Levaneuski suspend the hunger strike.\n\nOn 28 July 2004 Valery Levaneuski and his son were freed from the charges under article 342 of Criminal code of Belarus Republic (“Organization of non-authorized rally”).\n\nOn 1 August 2004 famous Russian rock musicians Sergey Shnurov (band “Leningrad (band)”) and Alexander Vasiliev (band “Splean”) have held a brief for Levaneuski.\n\nOn 16 August 2004 court has extended Levaneuski’ term of arrest for another month.\n\nOn 7 September 2004, court of Leninsky District of the city of Grodno had found Valery Levaneuski guilty in public insult of the President of Belarus Republic coupled to accusation in committal of grave offence, and based on part 2, article 368 of the Criminal code of Belarus Republic sentenced him to two years of confinement with serving the sentence in a general regime penal colony [28]. The judge decreed that a leaflet, which Levaneuski had distributed prior to demonstrations on 1 May 2004, contains a public insult to the President (since Alexander Lukashenko is known to have spent his holidays in Austria).\n\nOn 16 September 2004, European Parliament calls on the Belarus authorities to release immediately Valery Levaneuski and all other imprisoned political opponents of the regime.\n\nOn 2 June 2005, State Department calls on Belarus authorities to release Valery Levaneuski and all other political prisoners \n\nLevanéuski is married, with four children.\n\n"}
{"id": "35952587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35952587", "title": "Vladimir Dmitriev", "text": "Vladimir Dmitriev\n\nVladimir Alexandrovich Dmitriev (; born August 25, 1953, Moscow) is a Russian businessman and former chairman of Vnesheconombank, a job he held from 27 May 2004 to 26 February 2016.\n"}
{"id": "21736685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21736685", "title": "William C. Battle", "text": "William C. Battle\n\nWilliam Cullen \"Bill\" Battle (October 9, 1920 – May 31, 2008) was an American diplomat, lawyer, businessman, United States Ambassador to Australia, and president of the United States Golf Association.\n\nBattle was born in Charlottesville, Virginia. He was the son of John S. Battle, former Governor of Virginia (1950–54). While attending the University of Virginia, Battle played on the varsity golf team, until his graduation in 1941.\n\nBattle served in the U.S. Navy during World War II and was awarded the Silver Star. He was in the same squadron in the South Pacific as John F. Kennedy and participated in Kennedy's rescue from the island on which he and his crew were marooned.\n\nAfter the war, he returned to the University of Virginia, earned a law degree in 1947, and was admitted to the Virginia bar.\n\nBattle worked in his father's law firm, as well as helped his father win election as Governor of Virginia in 1950. During the Massive Resistance crisis, both Battles represented the Albemarle County Public Schools, who were being sued by the NAACP on behalf of parents who wanted their children to attend integrated schools. After joint decisions of the Virginia Supreme Court and three-judge federal panel on January 19, 1959, undercut the Massive Resistance laws known as the Stanley Plan (which, among other provisions, proposed closing any public school acceding to a court desegregation order), Battle ultimately negotiated a settlement with the NAACP, and Charlotteville public schools reopened.\n\nThe younger Battle later worked on Kennedy's 1960 presidential campaign and was appointed Ambassador to Australia, serving from 1962 to 1964.\n\nIn 1969, in an election that became known for the crumbling of the last vestiges of Massive Resistance and the Byrd Organization, Battle (the Democrats' gubernatorial candidate) lost to Republican A. Linwood Holton, Jr.. Holton, who put his (white) children in Richmond's (mostly African-American) public schools, became the first Republican governor of the Commonwealth since the end of the Reconstruction Era. While Senator Harry F. Byrd had died several years previously, Virginia's other long-term Senator A. Willis Robertson also lost in this election, and when Senator Harry F. Byrd Jr. ran for re-election the following year, he did so as an \"independent\".\n\nBattle later became president and CEO of Fieldcrest Mills, a textile manufacturer, where he served as president from 1971 to 1981.\n\nIn 1978, Battle was elected to the executive committee of the United States Golf Association where he served until 1989. He served as USGA President from 1988 to 1989. He had also been president of the Mid-Atlantic Golf Association in 1953.\n\nBattle died in Charlottesville, Virginia after suffering a stroke. He was survived by his wife Barry (née Webb) Battle, three children, Cullen Battle, Robert Battle and Janie Battle Richards, and six grandchildren\n\n"}
{"id": "51537677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51537677", "title": "Yemi Idowu", "text": "Yemi Idowu\n\nYemi Idowu, or Oluyemi Idowu, (born 3 December 1968) is a Nigerian entrepreneur, industrialist and philanthropist.\n\nIdowu was born in Ibadan, Nigeria to the Late Chief (Dr) Nathaniel Olabiyi Idowu (OFR), the Mayeloye and the Okanlomo of Ibadan land. Yemi spent his early years schooling in the United Kingdom and participated actively in sports at the youth level.\n\nAn alumnus of the Harvard Business School Executive Education Program, Idowu holds a Bachelor of Science in Accounts and Financial Analysis from the Newcastle upon Tyne University, England and a Post Graduate Diploma in Human Resource Management.\n\nHe is a member of the Institute of Personnel Management. After his university education, he worked as a Business Development Manager for Africa and the Middle East at Anglo European Equipment, London.\n\nIdowu is an accomplished businessman having served on the board of various companies. Idowu founded Aircom Nigeria Limited in 1992 and serves as the Managing Director till date.\n\nUntil July 2014, Idowu served as a non-executive Director with Sterling Bank (Nigeria) PLC from its inception in 2005 and was a onetime Chairman of Sterling Capital as well as being the Vice Chairman of NBM Bank between 1999 and 2005.\n\nIdowu also sat on the governing council of the Bank Directors Association of Nigeria (BDAN) as its General Secretary between 2009 and 2014. Idowu also serves as Chairman Leyland Nigeria (Nigeria’s largest indigenous automobile assembly plant) and is a Director of the Lagos Junior League and the current Chairman of Nathaniel Boys Football Club where the likes of Leicester City F.C. midfield maestro Wilfred Ndidi who played for Genk in the Belgian Pro League started their careers from.\n\nIdowu has been involved in sports philanthropy and grassroots sports development for many years. As a result, he was appointed Board Chairman of the Nigerian Academicals Sports Committee (NASCOM) - a presidential committee in November 2012.\n\nIn his capacity as Chairman of the board of NASCOM, Yemi Idowu was instrumental in initiating the Rhythm N' Play campaign - a grassroot sports mobilization campaign targeted at bringing an additional 2 million Nigeria school children into sports within a two-year period. Former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan launched the campaign in Abuja on 6 June 2013.\n\nIdowu is involved in infrastructure sustainability and security as tools to developing and sustaining Mega cities in Africa and on 10 November 2015 he was appointed a member of the Board of Trustees of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund alongside Herbert Wigwe, Opeyemi Agbaje, Gbolahan Lawal and Phillip Oduozua by his Excellency Akinwunmi Ambode the Lagos State Governor.\n"}
