{"id": "3921932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3921932", "title": "5 October 1910 revolution", "text": "5 October 1910 revolution\n\nThe 5 October 1910 revolution was the overthrow of the centuries-old Portuguese Monarchy and its replacement by the Portuguese Republic. It was the result of a \"coup d'état\" organized by the Portuguese Republican Party. \n\nBy 1910, the Kingdom of Portugal was in deep crisis: British pressure on Portugal's colonies, the royal family's expenses, the assassination of the King and his heir in 1908, changing religious and social views, instability of the two political parties (Progressive and Regenerador), the dictatorship of João Franco, and the regime's apparent inability to adapt to modern times all led to widespread resentment against the Monarchy. The proponents of the republic, particularly the Republican Party, found ways to take advantage of the situation. The Republican Party presented itself as the only one that had a programme that was capable of returning to the country its lost status and place Portugal on the way of progress.\n\nAfter a reluctance of the military to combat the nearly two thousand soldiers and sailors that rebelled between 3 and 4 October 1910, the Republic was proclaimed at 9 o'clock of the next day from the balcony of the Paços do Concelho in Lisbon. After the revolution, a provisional government led by Teófilo Braga directed the fate of the country until the approval of the Constitution in 1911 that marked the beginning of the First Republic. Among other things, with the establishment of the republic, national symbols were changed: the national anthem and the flag. The revolution produced some civil and religious liberties, although there was no advance in women's rights and in workers rights, unlike what happened in other European countries.\n\nOn 11 January 1890 the British government of Lord Salisbury sent the Portuguese government an ultimatum in the form of a \"memorandum\", demanding the retreat of the Portuguese military forces led by Serpa Pinto from the territory between the colonies of Angola and Mozambique (in the current Zimbabwe and Zambia), an area claimed by Portugal under the Pink Map.\n\nThe swift yielding by the Portuguese to the British demands was seen as a national humiliation by a broad cross-section of the population and the elite, initiating a movement of deep dissatisfaction in relation with the new king, Carlos I of Portugal, the royal family and the institution of the monarchy, which were seen as responsible for the alleged process of \"national decline\". The situation was aggravated by the severe financial crisis that occurred between 1890 and 1891, when the money sent from emigrants in Brazil decreased by 80% with the so-called crisis of \"encilhamento\" following the proclamation of the republic in Brazil two months previously, an event that was followed with apprehension by the monarchic government and with jubilation by the defenders of the republic in Portugal. The republicans knew how to take advantage of the dissatisfaction, initiating an increase of their social support base that would climax in the demise of the regime.\n\nOn 14 January, the progressive government fell and the leader of the Regenerador Party, António de Serpa Pimentel, was chosen to form the new government. The progressivists then began to attack the king, voting for republican candidates in the March election of that year, questioning the colonial agreement then signed with the British. Feeding an atmosphere of near insurrection, on 23 March 1890, António José de Almeida, at the time a student in the University of Coimbra and, later on, President of the Republic, published an article entitled \"\"Bragança, o último\", considered slanderous against the king and led to Almeida's imprisonment.\n\nOn 1 April 1890, the explorer Silva Porto self-immolated wrapped in a Portuguese flag in Kuito, Angola, after failed negotiations with the locals, under orders of Paiva Couceiro, which he attributed to the \"ultimatum\". The death of the well-known explorer of the African continent generated a wave of national sentiment, and his funeral was followed by a crowd in Porto. On 11 April, Guerra Junqueiro's poetic work \"Finis Patriae\", a satire criticising the King, went on sale.\n\nIn the city of Porto, on 31 January 1891, a military uprising against the monarchy took place, constituted mainly by sergeants and enlisted ranks. The rebels, who used the nationalist anthem \"A Portuguesa\" as their marching song, took the Paços do Concelho, from whose balcony, the republican journalist and politician Augusto Manuel Alves da Veiga proclaimed the establishment of the republic in Portugal and hoisted a red and green flag belonging to the Federal Democratic Centre. The movement was, shortly afterwards, suppressed by a military detachment of the municipal guard that remained loyal to the government, resulting in 40 injured and 12 casualties. The captured rebels were judged. 250 received sentences of between 18 months and 15 years of exile in Africa. \"A Portuguesa\" was forbidden.\n\nDespite its failure, the rebellion of 31 January 1891 was the first large threat felt by the monarchic regime and a sign of what would come almost two decades later.\n\nThe revolutionary movement of 5 October 1910 occurred following the ideological and political action that, since its creation in 1876, the Portuguese Republican Party (PRP) had been developing with the objective of overthrowing the monarchic regime.\n\nBy making the national renewal dependent on the end of the monarchy, the Republican Party managed to define itself as distinct from the Portuguese Socialist Party, which defended a collaboration with the regime in exchange for the rights of the working class and attracted the sympathy of the dissatisfied sections of society.\n\nDisagreements within the party became more connected with matters of political than ideological strategy. The ideological direction of the Portuguese republicanism had been traced much earlier by the works of José Félix Henriques Nogueira, little changed through the years, except in terms of later adaptation to the everyday realities of the country. The works of Teófilo Braga contributed to this task by trying to concretise the decentralising and federalist ideas, abandoning the socialist quality in favour of democratic aspects. This change also aimed to attract the small and medium bourgeoisie, which turned into one of the main bases of republican support. In the election of 13 October 1878 the PRP elected its first member of parliament, José Joaquim Rodrigues de Freitas, for Porto.\n\nThere was also an intention to give the overthrow of the monarchy overtones of unification, nationalism and being above the particular interests of individual social classes. This panacea that would cure, once and for all, all the ills of the nation, elevating it to glory, emphasised two fundamental tendencies: nationalism and colonialism. From this combination came the final desertion of Iberian Federalism, patent in the first republican theses by José Félix Henriques Nogueira, identifying the monarchy as antipatriotism and the yielding to foreign interests. Another strong component of republican ideology was emphasised by anti-clericalism, due to the theorisation of Teófilo Braga, who identified religion as an obstacle to progress and responsible for the scientific retardation of Portugal, in opposition to republicanism, which was linked by him to science, progress and well-being.\n\nIdeological issues were not, ultimately, fundamental to the republican strategy: for the majority of sympathisers, who didn't even know the texts of the main manifestos, it was enough to be against the monarchy, against the Church and against the political corruption of traditional parties. This lack of ideological preoccupation doesn't mean that the party didn't bother to spread its principles. The most effective action of dissemination was the propaganda made through its rallies and popular demonstrations and bulletins such as \"A Voz Pública\" (The Public Voice) in Porto, \"O Século\" (The Age, from 1880) \"O Mundo\" (The World, from 1900) and \"A Luta\" (The Struggle, from 1906) in Lisbon.\n\nThe republican propaganda managed to take advantage of some historical facts with popular repercussions. The celebrations of the third centenary of the death of Luís de Camões in 1580, and the British \"ultimatum\" in 1890, for example, were capitalised on to present the republicans as the true representatives of the purest national sentiments and popular aspirations.\n\nThe third centenary of Camões was commemorated with great celebrations: a civic entourage that went through the streets of Lisbon, in the middle of great popular enthusiasm and, also, the transfer of the remains of Camões and Vasco da Gama to Jerónimos Monastery. The atmosphere of the national celebration that characterised the commemorations complemented the patriotic exaltation. The idea of the Camões commemorations came from the Lisbon Geographic Society, but the execution was entrusted to a commission constituted by, amongst others, Teófilo Braga, Ramalho Ortigão, Jaime Batalha Reis, Magalhães Lima and Pinheiro Chagas, leading figures of the Republican Party.\n\nBesides Rodrigues de Freitas, Manuel de Arriaga, José Elias Garcia, Zófimo Consiglieri Pedroso, José Maria Latino Coelho, Bernardino Pereira Pinheiro, Eduardo de Abreu, Francisco Teixeira de Queirós, José Jacinto Nunes, and Francisco Gomes da Silva were also elected members of parliament, representing the PRP in various legislative sessions between 1884 and 1894. From this date to 1900 there was no republican parliamentary representation. In this phase, while separated from parliament, the party committed itself to its internal organisation.\n\nAfter a period of great repression of PRP, the republican movement could reenter the legislative race in 1900, electing four parliament members: Afonso Costa, Alexandre Braga, António José de Almeida and João de Meneses.\n\nOn 1 February 1908, while returning to Lisbon from Vila Viçosa in Alentejo, where they had spent the hunting season, the king Carlos I and his heir the prince Luís Filipe were assassinated in Lisbon's Commerce Square.\n\nThe attack occurred after a progressive decline of the Portuguese political system, effective since the Regeneration, due in part by the political erosion originated from the system of rotating governments (which saw the Progressive Party and Regenerator Party alternating in government). The king, as arbiter of the system, a role attributed to him by the Constitution, had designated João Franco as the president of the Council of Ministers (government chief). João Franco, dissident of the Regenerator Party, convinced the king to dissolve the parliament so that he could implement a series of measures with the aim to moralise Portuguese politics. This decision irritated not only the republican but also the monarchical opposition, led by political rivals of Franco who accused him of governing in dictatorship. The events were aggravated by the issues of the advanced payments to the Royal House and the signing of the decree of 30 January 1908 that foresaw the banishment to the colonies, without judgement, of those involved in a failed republican coup occurred two days previously, the Municipal Library Elevator Coup.\nThe Royal Family was in the Ducal Palace of Vila Viçosa, but the events led the king to bring forward his return to Lisbon, taking a train from the station of Vila Viçosa on the morning of 1 February. The royal escort arrived in Barreiro in the evening where, to cross the Tagus, it took a steam boat to Terreiro do Paço in Lisbon, at around 5pm. Despite the atmosphere of great tension, the king chose to continue in an open carriage, with a reduced escort, to demonstrate normality. While greeting the crowds present in the square, the carriage was struck by several shots. One of the carbine bullets hit the king's neck, killing him immediately. More shooting followed, and the prince was hit by another shot. The queen defended herself with the bouquet of flowers offered by the people, which she used to hit one of the attackers who had climbed onto the carriage. The prince D. Manuel was also struck on an arm. Two of the attackers, Manuel Buíça, primary school teacher, and Alfredo Luís da Costa, commerce employee and editor, were killed in the scene. Others managed to escape. The carriage entered the Navy Arsenal, where the deaths of the king and his heir were verified.\n\nAfter the attack, João Franco's government was dismissed and a rigorous investigation was launched which found, two years later, that the attack had been committed by members of the secret organisation \"Carbonária\". The investigation process finished on 5 October 1910. However, more suspects were subsequently found to have direct involvement, some of whom had gone into hiding in Brazil and France and at least two had been killed by the \"Carbonária\" itself.\n\nEurope was shocked by the attack, since King Carlos was highly regarded by other European heads of state. The Lisbon regicide hastened the end of the monarchy by placing D. Manuel II on the throne and throwing the monarchical parties against one another.\n\nDue to his young age (18 years) and the tragic and bloody way in which he reached power, Manuel II of Portugal obtained an initial sympathy from the public. The young king began his rule by nominating a consensus government presided by admiral Francisco Joaquim Ferreira do Amaral. This government of \"pacification\", as it became known, despite achieving a temporary calm, only lasted for a short amount of time. The political situation degraded again quickly, leading to having seven different governments in the space of two years. The monarchical parties rose against each other once more and fragmented into splinter groups, while the Republican Party continued to gain ground. In the election of 5 April 1908, the last legislative elections to occur during the monarchy, seven members were elected to parliament, among which were Estêvão de Vasconcelos, Feio Terenas and Manuel de Brito Camacho. In the election of 28 August 1910 the party had a resounding success, electing 14 members to parliament, 10 for Lisbon.\n\nMeanwhile, in spite of the evident electoral success of the republican movement, the most revolutionary sector of the party called for armed struggle as the best means to achieve power in a short amount of time. It was this faction that came victorious from the party congress that took place in Setúbal between the 23 and 25 April 1909. The directorate, composed by the moderate Teófilo Braga, Basílio Teles, Eusébio Leão, José Cupertino Ribeiro and José Relvas, received from the congress the imperative mandate to \"start the revolution\". The logistic role for the preparation of plot was assigned to the most radical elements. The civil committee was formed by Afonso Costa, João Pinheiro Chagas and António José de Almeida, while the admiral Carlos Cândido dos Reis was the leader of the military committee. António José de Almeida was assigned the role of organising the secret societies such as the \"Carbonária\" – in whose leadership was integrated the naval commissary António Machado Santos —, the freemasons and the \"Junta Liberal\", led by Miguel Bombarda. This eminent doctor played an important part in the dissemination of republican propaganda among the bourgeoisie, which brought many sympathisers to the republican cause.\n\nThe period between the congress of 1909 and the emergence of the revolution was marked by great instability and political and social unrest, with several threats of uprising risking the revolution due to the impatience of the navy, led by Machado Santos, who was ready for action.\n\nOn 3 October 1910 the republican uprising foreshadowed by the political unrest finally took place. Although many of those involved in the republican cause avoided participation in the uprising, making it seem like the revolt had failed, it eventually succeeded thanks to the government's inability to gather enough troops to control the nearly two hundred armed revolutionaries that resisted in the Rotunda.\n\nIn summer of 1910 Lisbon was teeming with rumours and many times the President of the Council of Ministers (Prime Minister) Teixeira de Sousa was warned of imminent \"coups d'état\". The revolution was not an exception: the \"coup\" was expected by the government, who on 3 October gave orders for all the garrison troops of the city to be on guard. After a dinner offered in honour of D. Manuel II by Brazilian president Hermes da Fonseca, then on a state visit to Portugal, the monarch retreated to the Palace of Necessidades while his uncle and sworn heir to the throne, prince D. Afonso, went on to the Citadel of Cascais.\n\nAfter the murder of Miguel Bombarda, shot by one of his patients, the republican leaders assembled with urgency on the night of the 3rd. Some officials were against the meeting due to the strong military presence, but Admiral Cândido dos Reis insisted for it to take place, saying \"A Revolução não será adiada: sigam-me, se quiserem. Havendo um só que cumpra o seu dever, esse único serei eu.\" (\"The Revolution will not be delayed: follow me, if you want. If there is one that fulfills their duty, this one will be me.\").\n\nMachado Santos had already got into action and did not attend the assembly. Instead, he went to the military quarters of the 16th Infantry Regiment where a revolutionary corporal had triggered a rebellion involving the majority of the garrison. A commander and a captain were killed when they made an attempt to control it. Entering a barracks with dozens of members of the \"Carbonária\", the naval officer went on with about 100 soldiers that entered the 1st Artillery Regiment, where Captain Afonso Palla and a few sergeants and civilians, had already taken the administration building and captured all officers that refused to join them. With the arrival of Machado Santos two columns were formed which were placed under the leadership of captains Sá Cardoso and Palla. The first went to meet the 2nd Infantry Regiment and the 2nd \"Caçadores\" Regiment, also sympathisers of the rebellion, to go on to Alcântara where it was to support the naval barracks. The original route intersected with a Municipal Guard outpost which forced the column to follow a different route. After a few confrontations with the police and civilians, it finally found the column led by Palla. Together, the columns advanced to Rotunda, where they entrenched at around 5am. The stationed force was composed of around 200 to 300 men of the 1st Artillery Regiment, 50 to 60 men of the 16th Infantry Regiment and around 200 civilians. The captains Sá Cardoso and Palla and the naval commissary Machado Santos were among the 9 officers in command.\n\nMeanwhile, Lieutenant Ladislau Parreira and some officers and civilians entered the barracks of the Naval Corps of Alcântara at 1am, managing to take arms, provoke a revolt and capture the commanders, one of whom was wounded. The aim of this action was to prevent the exit of the cavalry unit of the Municipal Guard, an aim that was achieved. For this end, they required the support of 3 warships anchored in the Tagus. By this time, Lieutenant Mendes Cabeçadas had already taken command of the mutinied crew of the \"NRP Adamastor\" while the mutinied crew of the \"São Rafael\" waited for an officer to command it.\n\nAt about 7am Ladislau Parreira, having been informed by civilians of the situation, sent the Second-Lieutenant Tito de Morais to take command of the \"São Rafael\", with orders for both ships to support the garrison of the barracks. When it became known that on the ship \"D. Carlos I\" the crew had begun a mutiny but the officers had entrenched, Lieutenant Carlos da Maia and a few sailors left the \"São Rafael\". After some gunfire from which a lieutenant and a ship commander became wounded, the officers gave up control of the \"D. Carlos I\", yielding it to the hands of the republicans.\n\nThat was the last unit to join the rebels, which included by then part of the 1st Artillery Regiment, 16th Infantry Regiment, the naval corps and the three warships. Navy members had joined in large numbers as expected, but many military sections considered sympathizers with the cause hadn't joined. Even so, the republican forces included about 400 men in Rotunda, 1000 to 1500 in Alcântara counting the naval crews, as well as having managed to take hold of the city's artillery, with most of the ammunition, to which was added the naval artillery. Rotunda and Alcântara were occupied, but concrete plans for the revolution had not yet been decided and the main leaders hadn't yet appeared.\n\nIn spite of this, the beginning of the events did not occur favorably for the rebels. The three cannon shots – the accorded signal for the civilians and military to advance – did not take place. Only a shot was heard and the Admiral Cândido dos Reis, expecting the signal to take command of the warships, was informed that everything had failed, which prompted him to retire to his sister's house. The next morning his dead body was found in Arroios. In desperation, he had committed suicide by a shot to the head.\n\nMeanwhile, in Rotunda, the apparent calm in the city was so discouraging to the rebels that officers preferred to give up. Sá Cardoso, Palla and other officers retired to their houses, but Machado Santos stayed and assumed command. This decision proved fundamental to the success of the revolution.\n\nThe military garrison of Lisbon was composed by four infantry regiments, two cavalry regiments and two light infantry battalions, with a theoretical total of 6982 men. However, in practice, there were other useful units in military outposts used for lookout and general police duties, especially in the industrial district of Barreiro due to the bout of strikes and syndicalist activity that had been ongoing since September .\n\nEver since the previous year the government forces had a plan of action, drawn up by order of the military commander of Lisbon, General Manuel Rafael Gorjão Henriques. When, on the evening of the 3rd, the President of the Council of Ministers Teixeira de Sousa informed him of the imminence of a revolt, a prevention order was soon sent to the garrisons in the city. The units of Artillery 3 and Light Infantry 6 were called from Santarém, while Infantry 15 was called from Tomar.\n\nAs soon as news of the revolt was received, the plan was put into practice: the 1st Infantry, 2nd Infantry, 2nd Light Infantry and 2nd Cavalry regiments and the artillery battery of Queluz, went to the Palace of Necessidades to protect the king, while Infantry 5 and Light Infantry 5 moved to Rossio Square, with the mission to protect the military headquarters.\n\nAs for the police force and municipal guards, they were distributed through the city as set out in the plan, intended to protect strategic points such as Rossio Railway Station, the gas factory, the Portuguese mint, the postal building, the Carmo barracks, the ammunition depot in Beirolas and the residence of the President of the Council of Ministers, where the government had assembled. Little is known of the Fiscal Guard (a total of 1397 men), only that a few soldiers were with the troops in Rossio. The civil police (total of 1200 men) stayed in the squads. This inaction decreased the effective government forces by approximately 2600 men.\n\nThe fact that some units of the monarchical side sympathised with the republicans, combined with the abandonment by the rebels of the original plan of action, opting instead for entrenchment in Rotunda and Alcântara, led to a situation of impasse throughout 4 October, with all manner of rumours about victories and defeats spreading through the city.\n\nAs soon as news of the concentration of rebels in Rotunda were received, the military command of the city organised a detachment to break them up. The column, under the command of Colonel Alfredo Albuquerque, was formed by units that had been removed from the protection of the Palace of Necessidades: Infantry 2, Cavalry 2 and the mobile battery of Queluz. The latter included the colonial war hero Henrique Mitchell de Paiva Couceiro. The column advanced until near the prison, where it assumed combat positions. However, before these were completed, the column was attacked by rebels. The attack was repelled but resulted in a few wounded men, several dead pack animals and the scattering of about half the infantry. Paiva Couceiro responded with cannons and the infantry that remained during 45 minutes, ordering an attack that was carried out by around 30 soldiers, but which was beaten with some casualties. Continuing the gunfire, he ordered a new attack, but only 20 soldiers followed the order. Thinking that he had found the right time to assault the barracks of Artillery 1, Paiva Couceiro requested reinforcement to the division's command. However, he received the perplexing order to retreat.\n\nMeanwhile, a column had been formed with the intention to attack simultaneously the rebels in Rotunda, a plan that was never carried out because of the order to retreat. The column reached Rossio in the evening without having joined combat. This inaction was not caused by the incompetence of its commander, General António Carvalhal, as would become clear the next day, when he was named chief of the Military Division for the republican government: he had changed sides.\n\nReinforcements from other parts of the country, expected by the government throughout 4 October, never arrived. Only the units already mentioned and called for the preventive measures received orders to advance. Since the beginning of the revolution, members of the \"Carbonária\" had disconnected the telegraph lines, thus cutting communication with units outside Lisbon. In addition, the rebels had cut off the railway tracks, which meant that even if the troops followed the orders to advance on Lisbon, they would never arrive on time. Reinforcements from the Setúbal peninsula were also unlikely to arrive, since the Tagus river was controlled by rebel ships.\n\nTowards the end of the day the situation was difficult for the monarchical forces: the rebel ships were docked beside the Palace Square and the cruiser \"São Rafael\" opened fire on the ministry buildings in the bewildered sight of the Brazilian diplomatic corps aboard battleship \"São Paulo\", whose passenger list included the elected president Hermes da Fonseca. \nThis attack undermined the morale of the pro-government forces in Rossio.\n\nAfter the dinner with Hermes da Fonseca, D. Manuel II had returned to the Palace of Necessidades, keeping the company of a few officers. They were playing bridge when the rebels began an attack on the building. The king attempted some phone calls but, finding that the lines had been cut, managed only to inform the Queen Mother, who was in Pena National Palace, about the situation. Soon afterwards, groups of units that were loyal to the king arrived at the scene and managed to defeat the attacks of the revolutionaries.\n\nAt 9 o'clock the king received a phone call from the president of the Council, advising him to find refuge in Mafra or Sintra, since the rebels were threatening to bomb the Palace of Necessidades. D.Manuel II refused to leave, saying to those present: \"Go if you want, I'm staying. Since the constitution doesn't appoint me any role other than of letting myself be killed, I will abide by it.\"\n\nWith the arrival of the mobile battery from Queluz, the pieces were arranged in the palace gardens so that they could bombard the quarters of the revolutionary sailors, which were located at no more than 100 metres from the palace. However, before they had time to start, the commander of the battery received the order to cancel the bombing and join the forces that were leaving the palace, integrated into the column that would attack the rebel forces of Artillery 1 in the Rotunda. At around midday the cruisers \"Adamastor\" and \"São Rafael\", which had anchored in front of the sailors' quarters, started the bombardment of the Palace of Necessidades, an action which served to demoralise the present monarchical forces. The king took refuge in a small house in the palace's park, where he could ring Teixeira de Sousa, since the revolutionaries had only cut the special state telephone lines and not the general network. The king ordered the prime minister to send the battery from Queluz to the palace to prevent a naval landing, but the prime minister replied that the main action was happening in Rotunda and all the troops that were there were needed. Taking into account that the available troops were not sufficient to defeat the rebels in Rotunda, the prime minister made it obvious to the king that it would be more convenient to retire to Sintra or Mafra so that the stationed forces of the palace could reinforce the troops in Rotunda.\n\nAt two o'clock the vehicles with D. Manuel II and his advisors set out to Mafra, where the Infantry School would provide enough forces to protect the monarch. While approaching Benfica the king dismissed the municipal guard squad that escorted him so that they could join the fight against the rebels. The escort arrived in Mafra at around four o'clock in the afternoon, but then discovered a problem: due to the holidays, the Infantry School contained only 100 soldiers, as opposed to the 800 that were expected, and the person in charge, Colonel Pinto da Rocha, admitted to not having the means to protect the king. In the meantime, Counsellor João de Azevedo Coutinho arrived and advised the king to call to Mafra the queens D. Amélia and D. Maria Pia (respectively, the king's mother and grandmother), who were in the palaces of Pena and Vila in Sintra, and to prepare to continue on to Porto, where they would organise a resistance.\n\nIn Lisbon, the king's departure did not bring a large advantage to the government since the majority of the troops now available to engage the rebel forces did not follow the orders to march to Rossio Square to prevent the concentration of rebel artillery in Alcântara.\n\nOn the night of 4 October morale was low amongst the monarchical troops stationed in Rossio Square, due to the constant danger of being bombarded by the naval forces and not even Couceiro's batteries, strategically placed there, could bring them comfort. In the headquarters there were discussions about the best position to bomb the Rotunda. At 3am, Paiva Couceiro departed with a mobile battery, escorted by a municipal guard squad, and positioned himself in Castro Guimarães Garden, in Torel, waiting for daybreak. When the forces in Rotunda began to fire on Rossio, revealing their position, Paiva Couceiro opened fire, causing casualties and sowing confusion amongst the rebels. The bombardment continued with advantage towards the monarchical side, but at eight in the morning Paiva Couceiro received orders to stop fighting, as there would be an armistice of an hour.\n\nMeanwhile, in Rossio, after Paiva de Couceiro's departure with the battery, the morale of the monarchical troops, which considered themselves helpless, deteriorated even more due to the threats of bombardment by the naval forces. Infantry 5 and some members of Light Infantry 5 insisted that they would not oppose a naval landing. Confronted with this fraternisation with the enemy, the commanders of these formations went to the headquarters, where they were surprised with the news of the armistice.\nThe new German representative, who had arrived two days earlier, had taken rooms in Hotel Avenida Palace, which housed many foreigners. The proximity of the building to the combat zone represented a great danger which prompted the diplomat to intervene. He addressed himself to the General Gorjão Henriques to request a cease-fire that would enable him to evacuate foreign citizens. Without notifying the government, and perhaps hoping to buy time for the arrival of the reinforcements, the general agreed.\n\nThe German diplomat, accompanied by a man with a white flag, went to the Rotunda to discuss the armistice with the revolutionaries. The latter, however, at the sight of the white flag, mistakenly thought that the king's forces were surrendering, prompting them to join with crowds a celebration of the new republic. In the square, Machado Santos initially refused to accept the armistice, but eventually accepted it after the insistence of the diplomat. Then, seeing the massive popular support for the revolution in the streets, he recklessly went to the headquarters, accompanied by many of the people and several officers who left the position in the Rotunda.\n\nThe situation in Rossio, with the pouring of the populace onto the streets, was very confusing but advantageous to the republicans, given the obvious public support. Machado Santos spoke to General Gorjão Henriques and invited him to keep the role of division commander, but he refused. António Carvalhal, known to be a republican sympathiser, then received command. Soon afterwards, at 9 o'clock in the morning, the Republic was proclaimed by José Relvas from the balcony of the Lisbon City Hall. A provisional government was then nominated, presided by members of the Portuguese Republican Party, with the mandate to govern the nation until a new constitution was approved.\n\nThe revolution caused dozens of casualties. The exact number is unknown, but it is recognised that as of 6 October, 37 people killed in the revolution were registered in the morgue. Several injured turned up at the hospitals, some of whom later died. For example, out of 78 injured victims checked into Hospital de São José, 14 died in the following days.\n\nIn Mafra, on the morning of 5 October, the king was looking for a way to reach Porto, an action that would be very difficult to carry out due to the almost non-existence of an escort and the innumerable revolutionary hubs spread throughout the country. At around midday the President of the Municipal Chamber of Mafra received a message from the new civil governor ordering the switching to a republican flag. Soon afterwards the commander of the Infantry School also received a telegram from his new commander informing him of the current political situation. The position of the royal family was becoming unsustainable.\n\nThe solution appeared when news arrived that the royal yacht \"Amélia\" had anchored nearby, in Ericeira. By 2am the yacht had collected from Cascais Citadel the king's uncle and heir to the throne, D. Afonso, and knowing that the king was in Mafra, had moved to Ericeira, as it was the closest anchorage. D. Manuel II, knowing that with the proclamation of the Republic he would be imprisoned, decided to go to Porto. The royal family and some company departed for Ericeira where, by means of two fishing ships and in the presence of curious civilians, they embarked on the royal yacht.\n\nOnce on board, the king wrote to the prime minister:\nAfter ensuring that the letter would reach its destination, the king announced that he wanted to go to Porto. He met with an advisory council, the officers on board and part of the escort. \"Amélia's\" Captain João Agnelo Velez Caldeira Castelo Branco and Chief Officer João Jorge Moreira de Sá opposed the opinion of the monarch, claiming that if Porto turned them away, they would not have enough fuel to reach a different anchorage. Despite the insistence of D. Manuel II, the Chief Officer argued that they carried on board the whole royal family, so his main duty was to protect their lives. In the end, the chosen port was Gibraltar. Once there, the king found out that Porto had also joined the republican cause. D. Manuel sent orders that the ship, being legally the Portuguese State's property, be returned to Lisbon. The deposed king would live out the rest of his life in exile.\n\nOn 6 October 1910, newspaper \"Diário do Governo\" announced: \"To the Portuguese people —Constitution of the Provisional Government of the Republic — Today, 5 October 1910, at eleven o'clock in the morning, was proclaimed the Portuguese Republic in the grand hall of the Palaces of Lisbon Municipality, after the end of the National Revolution movement. The Provisional Government was constituted immediately: Presidency, Dr Joaquim Teófilo Braga. Interior, Dr. António José de Almeida. Justice, Dr. Afonso Costa. Treasure, Basílio Teles. War, António Xavier Correia Barreto. Navy, Amaro Justiniano de Azevedo Gomes. Foreign, Dr. Bernardino Luís Machado Guimarães. Public Works, Dr. António Luís Gomes.\"\n\nBy decree on 8 October, the Provisional Government determined the new names of the ministries, with the most important changes being made to the ministries of \"the Kingdom\", \"Treasure\" and \"Public Works\", which were renamed ministries of \"Interior\", \"Finances\" and \"Development\". However, Basílio Teles refused the position and, on the 12th, it was given to José Relvas. On 22 November, Brito Camacho entered government after the departure of António Luís Gomes, appointed Portuguese ambassador in Rio de Janeiro.\nDuring its time of power, the Provisional Government took a series of important measures that had long-lasting effects. To calm tempers and make reparations with the victims of the monarchy, a broad amnesty was granted for crimes against the security of the State, against religion, of disobedience, of forbidden weaponry usage, etc. The Catholic Church resented the measures taken by the Provisional Government. Among these were the expulsion of the Society of Jesus and other religious orders of the Regular clergy, the closure of convents, the prohibition of religious teaching in schools, the abolition of the religious oath in civil ceremonies and a secularisation of the State by the separation of Church and State. Divorce was institutionalised, as were the legality of civil marriage, the equality of the marriage rights of men and women, the legal regulation of \"natural children\"; the protection of childhood and old age, the reformulation of the Press laws, the elimination of royal and noble ranks and titles and the acknowledgment of right to strike action. The Provisional Government also opted for the dissolution of the then municipal guards of Lisbon and Porto, creating instead a new public body of defence an order, the National Republican Guard. For the colonies, new legislation was created in order to grant autonomy to overseas territories, an essential condition for their development. The national symbols were modified – the flag and the national anthem —, a new monetary unit was adopted – the \"escudo\", equivalent to a thousand \"réis\" – and even the Portuguese orthography was simplified and appropriately regulated through the Orthographic Reform of 1911.\n\nThe Provisional Government enjoyed extensive power until the official launch of the National Constituting Assembly on 19 June 1911, following the election of 28 May of the same year. At that time, the president of the Provisional Government, Teófilo Braga, handed over to the National Constituting Assembly the powers he had received on 5 October 1910. Nevertheless, the Assembly approved with acclaim the proposal presented by their president, Anselmo Braamcamp Freire to the congress: \"The National Constituting Assembly confirms, until future deliberation, the functions of the Executive Power to the Provisional Government of the Republic\".\n\nTwo months later, with the approval of the Political Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the election of the first constitutional president of the Republic – Manuel de Arriaga – on 24 August, the Provisional Government presented its resignation, which was accepted by the president of the republic on 3 September 1911, marking the end of a government term of more than 10 months and the beginning of the First Portuguese Republic.\n\nWith the establishment of the Republic, the national symbols were modified. By a Provisional Government decree dated 15 October 1910, a committee was appointed to design the new symbols. The modification of national symbols, according to historian Nuno Severiano Teixeira, emerged from the difficulty that republicans faced with representing the Republic:\n\nIn relation to the flag, there were two inclinations: one of keeping the blue and white colours, traditional of Portuguese flags, and another of using \"more republican\" colours: green and red. The committee's proposal suffered several alterations, with the final design being rectangular, with the first two fifths closest to the flagpole to be green, and the three remaining fifths, red. Green was chosen because it was considered the \"colour of hope\", while red was chosen as a \"combative, hot, virile\" colour. The project of the flag was approved by the Provisional Government by vote on 19 November 1910. On 1 December was celebrated the Feast of the Flag in front of the Municipal Chamber of Lisbon. The National Constituting Assembly promulgated the adoption of the flag on 19 June 1911.\n\nOn 19 June 1911 the National Constitutional Assembly proclaimed \"A Portuguesa\" as the national anthem, replacing the old anthem \"Hymno da Carta\" in use since May 1834, and its status as national symbol was included in the new constitution. \"A Portuguesa\" was composed in 1890, with music by Alfredo Keil and lyrics by Henrique Lopes de Mendonça, in response to the 1890 British Ultimatum. Because of its patriotic character, it had been used, with slight modifications, by the rebels of the 1891 uprising in a failed attempt at a \"coup d'état\" to establish a republic in Portugal, an event which caused the anthem to be forbidden by the monarchic authorities.\n\n\"Hymno da Carta\" (1826–1910) \"A Portuguesa\" (1910–present) \n\nThe anthem was later modified; the official version used today in national civil and military ceremonies and during visits of foreign heads of state was approved on 4 September 1957.\n\nThe official bust of the Republic was chosen through a national competition promoted by Lisbon's city council in 1911, in which nine sculptors participated. The winning entry was that of Francisco dos Santos and is currently exposed in the Municipal Chamber. The original piece is found in Casa Pia, an institution from which the sculptor was alumnus. There is another bust that was adopted as the face of the Republic, designed by José Simões de Almeida in 1908. The original is found in the Municipal Chamber of Figueiró dos Vinhos. The model for this bust was Ilda Pulga, a young shop employee from Chiado. According to journalist António Valdemar, who, when he became president of the National Academy of Art asked the sculptor João Duarte to restore the original bust:\n\nThe bust shows Republic wearing a Phrygian cap, influence of the French Revolution. Simões' bust was soon adopted by Freemasonry and used in the funerals of Miguel Bombarda and Cândido dos Reis, but when the final contest took place, despite its relative popularity, it was second place to the bust by Francisco dos Santos.\n\nRepublican leaders adopted a severe and highly controversial policy of anticlericalism. At home, the policy polarised society and lost the republic potential supporters, and abroad it offended American and European states which had their citizens engaged in religious work there, adding substantially to the republic's bad press. The persecution of the church was so overt and severe that it drove the irreligious and nominally religious to a new religiosity and gained the support of Protestant diplomats such as the British, who, seeing their citizens' religious institutions in a grave dispute over their rights and property, threatened to deny recognition of the young republic. The revolution and the republic which it spawned were essentially anticlerical and had a \"hostile\" approach to the issue of church and state separation, like that of the French Revolution, the Spanish Constitution of 1931 and the Mexican Constitution of 1917.\n\nSecularism began to be discussed in Portugal back in the 19th century, during the Casino Conferences in 1871, promoted by Antero de Quental. The republican movement associated the Catholic Church with the monarchy, and opposed its influence in Portuguese society. The secularisation of the Republic constituted one of the main actions to be taken in the political agenda of the Portuguese Republican Party and the Freemasonry. Monarchists in a last-ditch effort sought to outflank the republicans by enacting anticlerical measures of their own, even enacting a severe restriction on the Jesuits on the day before the revolution.\n\nSoon after the establishment of the Republic, on 8 October 1910, Minister for Justice Afonso Costa reinstated Marquess of Pombal's laws against the Jesuits, and Joaquim António de Aguiar's laws in relation to religious orders. The Church's property and assets were expropriated by the State. The religious oath and other religious elements found in the statutes of the University of Coimbra were abolished, and matriculations into first year of the Theology Faculty were cancelled, as were places in the Canon law course, suppressing the teaching of Christian doctrine. Religious holidays turned into working days, keeping however the Sunday as a resting day for labour reasons. As well as that, the Armed forces were forbidden from participating in religious solemn events. Divorce and family laws were approved which considered marriage as a \"purely civil contract\"\n\nBishops were persecuted, expelled or suspended from their activities in the course of the secularisation. All but one were driven from their dioceses. the property of clerics was seized by the state, wearing of the cassock was banned, all minor seminaries were closed and all but five major seminaries. A law of 22 February 1918 permitted only two seminaries in the country, but they had not been given their property back. Religious orders were expelled from the country, including 31 orders comprising members in 164 houses (in 1917 some orders were permitted to form again). Religious education was prohibited in both primary and secondary school.\n\nIn response to the several anticlerical decrees, Portuguese bishops launched a collective pastoral defending the Church's doctrine, but its reading was prohibited by the government. In spite of this, some prelates continued to publicise the text, among which was the bishop of Porto, António Barroso. This resulted in him being called to Lisbon by Afonso Costa, where he was stripped from his ecclesiastic functions.\n\nThe secularisation peaked with the \"Law of Separation of the State and the Church\" on 20 April 1911, with a large acceptance by the revolutionaries. The law was only promulgated by the Assembly in 1914, but its implementation was immediate after the publishing of the decree. The Portuguese Church tried to respond, classifying the law as \"injustice, oppression, spoliation and mockery\", but without success. Afonso Costa even predicted the eradication of Catholicism in the space of three generations. The application of the law began on 1 July 1911, with the creation of a \"Central Commission\". As one commentator put it, \"ultimately the Church was to survive the official vendetta against organized religion\".\n\nOn 24 May 1911, Pope Pius X issued the encyclical Iamdudum which condemned the anticlericals for their deprivation of religious civil liberties and the \"incredible series of excesses and crimes which has been enacted in Portugal for the oppression of the Church.\"\n\nA major concern of the new republican government was recognition by other nations. In 1910, the vast majority of European states were monarchies. Only France, Switzerland and San Marino were republics. For this reason, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Provisional Government, Bernardino Machado, directed his agenda exercising extreme prudence, leading him, on 9 October 1910, to communicate to diplomatic representatives in Portugal that the Provisional Government would honour all the international commitments assumed by the previous regime.\n\nSince marshal Hermes da Fonseca personally witnessed the full process of transition of the regime, having arrived in Portugal on an official visit when the country was still a monarchy and left when it was a republic, it is not unusual that Brazil was the first country to recognise \"de jure\" the new Portuguese political regime. On 22 October the Brazilian government declared that \"Brazil will do all that is possible for the happiness of the noble Portuguese Nation and its Government, and for the prosperity of the new Republic\". The next day would be Argentina's turn; on the 29 it was Nicaragua; on the 31, Uruguay; on 16 and 19 November, Guatemala and Costa Rica; Peru and Chile on 5 and 19 November; Venezuela on 23 February 1911; Panama on 17 March. In June 1911 the United States declared support.\n\nLess than a month after the revolution, on 10 November 1910, the British government recognised \"de facto\" the Portuguese Republic, manifesting \"the liveliest wish of His Britannic Majesty to maintain friendly relations\" with Portugal. An identical position was taken by the Spanish, French and Italian governments. However, \"de jure\" recognition of the new regime only emerged after the approval of the Constitution and the election of the President of the Republic. The French Republic was the first to do it on 24 August 1911, day of the election of the first president of the Portuguese Republic. Only on 11 September did the United Kingdom recognise the Republic, accompanied by Germany, the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Denmark, Spain, Italy and Sweden. On 12 September, they were followed by Belgium, the Netherlands and Norway; on 13 September, China and Japan; on 15 September, Greece; on 30 September, Russia; on 23 October, Romania; on 23 November, Turkey; on 21 December, Monaco; and on 28 February 1912, Siam. Owing to the tensions created between the young Republic and the Catholic Church, interaction with the Holy See was suspended, and the Holy See did not recognise the Portuguese Republic until 29 June 1919.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1482062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1482062", "title": "About-Picard law", "text": "About-Picard law\n\nThe 2001 About-Picard law [abu pika:r] (named after French parliament members Nicolas About and Catherine Picard), a controversial piece of French legislation, broadly speaking, makes it possible to act against organisations (legal entities) when such organisations have become involved in certain crimes. The law, in its own words, aimed at movements deemed cultic (\"mouvements sectaires\") that \"undermine human rights and fundamental freedoms\". The law has caused controversy internationally, with some commentators alleging that it infringes religious freedom while proponents content it reinforces religious freedom.\n\nFreedom of religion and separation of church and state have formed part of the French idea of the state since at least the French Revolution and in some ways long before, since the 16th century period of the Reformation and of the Wars of Religion. Separation of religion and state in France takes the form of \"laïcité\", by which political power avoids interference in the sphere of religious dogma, and religion avoids interference in public policies. The French understand \"freedom of religion\" primarily as the freedom of the individual to believe or not to believe what any religion teaches. Also, because of a long history of one single dominating church (the Catholic Church), the French state sees its duty less in protecting religion from state interference than in protecting the individual from interference by religion.\n\nIn the wake of the Order of the Solar Temple murders and suicides, the French Parliament established the Parliamentary Commission on Cults in France to investigate cults. In December 1995 the Commission delivered a report on cults which caused much controversy, some of it due to a list extracted from a report by the French National Police on purported cults. (The Commission assimilated information and analysis from the French police secret service, the Renseignements généraux.)\n\nFollowing the recommendations of the report, Prime Minister Alain Juppé set up in 1996 the \"Interministerial board of observation of sects\", followed in 1998 by the \"Interministerial Mission in the Fight Against Sects\" (MILS). In 2002 the \"Interministerial Monitoring Mission Against Sectarian Abuses\" (MIVILUDES) replaced MILS.\n\nOther action of the French government against potential abuses by cults resulted in the passing of the About-Picard law.\n\nCommentators often refer to the Law 2001-504 of June 12, 2001 as the About-Picard law, from the name of its \"rapporteurs\" (parliamentarians who report upon the draft law), senator Nicolas About (UDF center-right party) and deputy Catherine Picard (PS center-left party).\n\nThe French parliament adopted the law with broad cross-party support under the government of center-right president Jacques Chirac and socialist prime minister Lionel Jospin.\n\nArticle 223-15-2 of Penal code:(Act no. 2001-504 of 12 June 2001, article 10 Official Journal of 13 June 2001 ; Ordinance No. 2000-916 of 19 September 2000, article 3 Official Journal of 22 September 2000, into force 1 January 2002) \n« Fraudulently abusing the ignorance or state of weakness of a minor, or of a person whose particular vulnerability, due to age, sickness, infirmity, to a physical or psychological disability or to pregnancy, is apparent or known to the offender, or abusing a person in a state of physical or psychological dependency resulting from serious or repeated pressure or from techniques used to affect his judgement, in order to induce the minor or other person to act or abstain from acting in any way seriously harmful to him, is punished by three years' imprisonment and a fine of € 375,000.\nWhere the offence is committed by the legal or de facto manager of a group that carries out activities the aim or effect of which is to create, maintain or exploit the psychological or physical dependency of those who participate in them, the penalty is increased to five years' imprisonment and to a fine of € 750,000. »\n\nThe additional penalties that natural or legal persons may incur are mentioned in the following articles 223-15-3 and 4.\n\nNotable new points introduced by the law include:\nThe initial draft of the About-Picard law included the criminalization of \"mental manipulation\". Many organizations criticised this clause for its vagueness. Minister of Justice Élisabeth Guigou pushed for the removal of this clause, which the legislators excluded from the final version of the law. However, the law makes it a crime to defraud a person weakened by illness, old age, etc., but also of a person in a state of \"psychological or physical subjection resulting from grave or reiterated pressures or techniques able to alter judgement\".\n\nThere was one famous application of the law since its adoption: that of Arnaud Mussy, leader of the tiny \"Néo-Phare\" (New Lighthouse) cult. Mussy, who claims that he is the Christ, had announced imminent apocalypse, resulting in the suicide of one of his followers and the attempted suicides of two others, who were severely wounded in 2001. The criminal court in Nantes sentenced him to three years in prison and 90,000 FF damages in November 2004. It ruled that he had \"abused fraudulently the state of ignorance and weakness of several persons in the state of bodily or mental dependence\". A higher court in Rennes confirmed the sentence in July 2005.\n\nThe French government, when challenged on issues of religious discrimination, states that it has no concern in any way with religious doctrine \"per se\". The government has taken the position that it will deal with the concrete consequences of cult affiliation, especially with respect to children. The government sees this as particularly important in the light of past abuse committed in some criminal cults, such as sexual slavery and mass suicide. According to government sources, none of the criteria listed in related government documents on sects discuss theology; they only focus on the actions and the methods of the groups.\n\nCritics of the law see this as merely a semantic change and maintain that no empirical studies support claims of the use of techniques of coercive persuasion by NRMs.\n\nThe Bishop of Soissons, Marcel Herriot, defended the law on 25 June 2000 asserting it was necessary to protect by law persons, family, society and religions themselves from sects that are violating fundamental freedoms and human dignity.\n\nSome groups claim that the Parliamentary Reports and the controversy surrounding the About-Picard law have created an unhealthy atmosphere, resulting in minority religious groups suffering from excessively strict, uneven, or even abusive discrimination in the application of other laws by local authorities. For example, the group \"Coordination des Associations et Particuliers pour la Liberté de Conscience\" (Co-ordination of Associations and Individuals for Freedom of Conscience) requested the repeal of the law, asserting laws should not specify groups as \"sectarian\" or \"cultic\" as, in a democracy. However, an OSCE report has described this group as a partisan \n\nThe umbrella association of French Jehovah's Witnesses sued the French government in the ECHR in case #53430/99, alleging that the publication of the parliamentary reports and the enactment of the About-Picard law infringed its civil rights. The court rejected the application.\n\nIn other cases (#53934/00), the Court affirmed that the publication of a Parliamentary Report disparaging to some groups did not constitute an infringement of human rights, even though these groups were not given a legal recourse for the removal of their name from the report.\n\nHuman rights activists dubbed the law \"un délit d'opinion\" (a thought crime).\n\nForty different religious and human-rights groups submitted a petition to the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly. This petition led to a report (Report 9612 of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of Europe) containing an expert paper by Swiss professor Joseph Voyame, who concluded:\nVoyame deduces that the law clearly responds to a need, that the measure of dissolution appears radical, but also effective and reliable, and that judicial guarantees surround it. He also discusses the title with its mentioning of \"cultic groups\", but comes to the conclusion that the uncertainty regarding the definition has little importance:\nThe title is undeniably part of the [Act], but has no legislative authority in itself. Although it may be useful for the purposes of interpretation, it cannot be used in making a ruling that runs counter to a clear legal provision [...] As we will see, [Sections] 1, 19 and 20 of this [Act] identify the targeted incorporated organizations and groups with the greatest possible precision. It is these standard-setting texts that are decisive.\nThe report discussed several objections regarding the word \"secte\" (cult):\n... the word ‘sect’ has taken on an extremely pejorative connotation. In the eyes of the public, it stigmatises movements whose activities are dangerous either for their members or for society. Today, the world contains dozens, perhaps even hundreds, of groups both large and small, all with various beliefs and observances, which are not necessarily dangerous or prejudicial to freedom. It is true that among these groups are some which have committed criminal acts. Nevertheless, the existence of a few dangerous movements is not enough to condemn all the rest (...)\nThe report concluded:\nThe act for the most part simply reiterates existing provisions in the Criminal Code, the Code of Consumption, the Code of Public Health and the New Code of Civil Procedure and does so for a precise purpose in conformity with the European Convention on Human Rights, as we have just seen. Consequently, even if it had been possible to achieve the same objective by recourse to existing provisions, there is nothing to prevent the passing of an act which has the advantage of grouping together all the provisions necessary to achieve that objective.\nIn November 2002, the Council of Europe passed a resolution inviting the Government of France to reconsider the About-Picard Law and to clarify certain terms in the law. It referred, however, to the Recommendation 1412 (1999) on the illegal activities of sects, where it had concluded that it was \"essential to ensure that the activities of groups, whatever religious, esoteric or spiritual description they adopted, were in keeping with the principles of democratic societies and, in particular, the provisions of Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR).\" and it stated that \"ultimately, should the case arise, it will be for the European Court of Human Rights, and it alone, to say whether or not this law is compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights.\" .\n\nIn an open letter dated June 2000 to Alain Vivien about religious freedom in France, Aaron Rhodes, Executive Director of the International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights (IHFHR), wrote:\nWe question ourselves how such a law can claim to guarantee human rights when it goes against the rights of association, expression, religion and conscience; when it puts in danger the right of minorities and maintains prejudices that are so incompatible with the concept of tolerance intrinsic to that of human rights. France must deal with its responsibilities and obligations as a signatory for the International Conventions and respect the European laws and its interpretation by the Court of Strasbourg, before one of its citizens become a victim of discrimination due to the law which you propose.\nAlain Vivien responded: \"[The IHFHR] seems today to have passed into the hands of Scientologists and perhaps other transnational organizations\". Aaron Rhodes then acknowledged that the Moscow office of the IHFHR had received funding from the Church of Scientology to print a leaflet about religious freedom in Russia, and voiced his astonishment at the charge. Rhodes voiced his embarrassment: \"[...]for you and your fellow French citizens by your recourse to methods of denunciations and insinuations that remind us of those sometimes used by totalitarian and backward regimes.\"\n\nSome groups sought the help of their governments to fight what they saw as religious intolerance in France. In the United States, the Church of Scientology utilised pressure groups against the French government, and had some success with the Clinton administration, which repeatedly brought the matter before the French government.\n\nAccording to pastor Jean-Arnold de Clermont, head of the French Protestant federation and himself a strong critic of the first draft of the law, the complaints originating in the United States concerning religious freedom in France were largely based on biased, poor information.\n\nAccording to a newspaper article published in \"The Guardian\" in June 2000, the French government considered American interference regarding religious freedom in France as unwarranted meddling by the US government in France's internal affairs. Paul Webster wrote that President Jacques Chirac told Clinton that religious freedom would no longer be a subject for bilateral presidential talks, \"in the light of what has been officially described as 'shocking' White House support for Scientologists and Moonies\". The French government also described the United States Congress's introduction of laws protecting religious freedom internationally as \"an unacceptable intrusion into internal affairs\". Alain Vivien, former chairman of the French ministerial mission to combat the influence of cults (MILS), and the president of the \"Centre Contre les Manipulations Mentales\" (Centre Against Mental Manipulation), said many observers believed that Clinton was making his peace with big religious movements, \"because they offer an indispensable source of political financing\", and that with the help of Scientologists, cults were infiltrating UN and European human rights associations and collaborating on virulent reports against France's policies.\n\nThe French did not alter their law following these requests; and the claims and actions of the US government regarding the religious situation in France largely ceased with the Bush administration.\n\nSome critics of French legislation have voiced concerns that countries which do not have the same legal safeguards and constitutional rights as France may emulate this legislation. In the words of a US official:\nYet the law itself remains problematic not only because of the threat the language carries in France, but because it is even now being considered for emulation by countries that lack France’s commitment to rule of law and human rights. Such a model serves only too well as cover for those nations who persecute under the guise of law enforcement.\nOn 15 September 2006 the United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor released a report on religious freedom in France. This report noted that \"The constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.\" It reported mostly anonymous concerns over repression of religious freedom in France, notably in regards to what the report referred to in one case as \"cult groups\", as well as the law banning religious symbols in schools, and rising anti-semitism in France.\n\n\n\n\n\"All texts in French.\"\n\n\"All texts in French.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=783", "title": "Alexander the Great", "text": "Alexander the Great\n\nAlexander III of Macedon (; 20/21 July 356 BC – 10/11 June 323 BC), commonly known as Alexander the Great (), was a king (\"basileus\") of the ancient Greek kingdom of Macedon and a member of the Argead dynasty. He was born in Pella in 356 BC and succeeded his father Philip II to the throne at the age of twenty. He spent most of his ruling years on an unprecedented military campaign through Asia and northeast Africa, and he created one of the largest empires of the ancient world by the age of thirty, stretching from Greece to northwestern India. He was undefeated in battle and is widely considered one of history's most successful military commanders.\n\nDuring his youth, Alexander was tutored by Aristotle until age 16. After Philip's assassination in 336 BC, he succeeded his father to the throne and inherited a strong kingdom and an experienced army. Alexander was awarded the generalship of Greece and used this authority to launch his father's pan-Hellenic project to lead the Greeks in the conquest of Persia. In 334 BC, he invaded the Achaemenid Empire (Persian Empire) and began a series of campaigns that lasted ten years. Following the conquest of Anatolia, Alexander broke the power of Persia in a series of decisive battles, most notably the battles of Issus and Gaugamela. He subsequently overthrew Persian King Darius III and conquered the Achaemenid Empire in its entirety. At that point, his empire stretched from the Adriatic Sea to the Indus River.\n\nHe endeavored to reach the \"ends of the world and the Great Outer Sea\" and invaded India in 326 BC, winning an important victory over the Pauravas at the Battle of the Hydaspes. He eventually turned back at the demand of his homesick troops. Alexander died in Babylon in 323 BC, the city that he planned to establish as his capital, without executing a series of planned campaigns that would have begun with an invasion of Arabia. In the years following his death, a series of civil wars tore his empire apart, resulting in the establishment of several states ruled by the Diadochi, Alexander's surviving generals and heirs.\n\nAlexander's legacy includes the cultural diffusion and syncretism which his conquests engendered, such as Greco-Buddhism. He founded some twenty cities that bore his name, most notably Alexandria in Egypt. Alexander's settlement of Greek colonists and the resulting spread of Greek culture in the east resulted in a new Hellenistic civilization, aspects of which were still evident in the traditions of the Byzantine Empire in the mid-15th century AD and the presence of Greek speakers in central and far eastern Anatolia until the 1920s. Alexander became legendary as a classical hero in the mold of Achilles, and he features prominently in the history and mythic traditions of both Greek and non-Greek cultures. He became the measure against which military leaders compared themselves, and military academies throughout the world still teach his tactics. He is often ranked among the most influential people in history.\n\nAlexander was born on the sixth day of the ancient Greek month of Hekatombaion, which probably corresponds to 20July 356 BC, although the exact date is disputed, in Pella, the capital of the Kingdom of Macedon. He was the son of the king of Macedon, Philip II, and his fourth wife, Olympias, the daughter of Neoptolemus I, king of Epirus. Although Philip had seven or eight wives, Olympias was his principal wife for some time, likely because she gave birth to Alexander.\nSeveral legends surround Alexander's birth and childhood. According to the ancient Greek biographer Plutarch, on the eve of the consummation of her marriage to Philip, Olympias dreamed that her womb was struck by a thunder bolt that caused a flame to spread \"far and wide\" before dying away. Sometime after the wedding, Philip is said to have seen himself, in a dream, securing his wife's womb with a seal engraved with a lion's image. Plutarch offered a variety of interpretations of these dreams: that Olympias was pregnant before her marriage, indicated by the sealing of her womb; or that Alexander's father was Zeus. Ancient commentators were divided about whether the ambitious Olympias promulgated the story of Alexander's divine parentage, variously claiming that she had told Alexander, or that she dismissed the suggestion as impious.\n\nOn the day Alexander was born, Philip was preparing a siege on the city of Potidea on the peninsula of Chalcidice. That same day, Philip received news that his general Parmenion had defeated the combined Illyrian and Paeonian armies, and that his horses had won at the Olympic Games. It was also said that on this day, the Temple of Artemis in Ephesus, one of the Seven Wonders of the World, burnt down. This led Hegesias of Magnesia to say that it had burnt down because Artemis was away, attending the birth of Alexander. Such legends may have emerged when Alexander was king, and possibly at his own instigation, to show that he was superhuman and destined for greatness from conception.\n\nIn his early years, Alexander was raised by a nurse, Lanike, sister of Alexander's future general Cleitus the Black. Later in his childhood, Alexander was tutored by the strict Leonidas, a relative of his mother, and by Lysimachus of Acarnania. Alexander was raised in the manner of noble Macedonian youths, learning to read, play the lyre, ride, fight, and hunt.\n\nWhen Alexander was ten years old, a trader from Thessaly brought Philip a horse, which he offered to sell for thirteen talents. The horse refused to be mounted, and Philip ordered it away. Alexander however, detecting the horse's fear of its own shadow, asked to tame the horse, which he eventually managed. Plutarch stated that Philip, overjoyed at this display of courage and ambition, kissed his son tearfully, declaring: \"My boy, you must find a kingdom big enough for your ambitions. Macedon is too small for you\", and bought the horse for him. Alexander named it Bucephalas, meaning \"ox-head\". Bucephalas carried Alexander as far as India. When the animal died (because of old age, according to Plutarch, at age thirty), Alexander named a city after him, Bucephala.\n\nWhen Alexander was 13, Philip began to search for a tutor, and considered such academics as Isocrates and Speusippus, the latter offering to resign from his stewardship of the Academy to take up the post. In the end, Philip chose Aristotle and provided the Temple of the Nymphs at Mieza as a classroom. In return for teaching Alexander, Philip agreed to rebuild Aristotle's hometown of Stageira, which Philip had razed, and to repopulate it by buying and freeing the ex-citizens who were slaves, or pardoning those who were in exile.\n\nMieza was like a boarding school for Alexander and the children of Macedonian nobles, such as Ptolemy, Hephaistion, and Cassander. Many of these students would become his friends and future generals, and are often known as the 'Companions'. Aristotle taught Alexander and his companions about medicine, philosophy, morals, religion, logic, and art. Under Aristotle's tutelage, Alexander developed a passion for the works of Homer, and in particular the \"Iliad\"; Aristotle gave him an annotated copy, which Alexander later carried on his campaigns.\n\nAt age 16, Alexander's education under Aristotle ended. Philip waged war against Byzantion, leaving Alexander in charge as regent and heir apparent. During Philip's absence, the Thracian Maedi revolted against Macedonia. Alexander responded quickly, driving them from their territory. He colonized it with Greeks, and founded a city named Alexandropolis.\n\nUpon Philip's return, he dispatched Alexander with a small force to subdue revolts in southern Thrace. Campaigning against the Greek city of Perinthus, Alexander is reported to have saved his father's life. Meanwhile, the city of Amphissa began to work lands that were sacred to Apollo near Delphi, a sacrilege that gave Philip the opportunity to further intervene in Greek affairs. Still occupied in Thrace, he ordered Alexander to muster an army for a campaign in southern Greece. Concerned that other Greek states might intervene, Alexander made it look as though he was preparing to attack Illyria instead. During this turmoil, the Illyrians invaded Macedonia, only to be repelled by Alexander.\n\nPhilip and his army joined his son in 338 BC, and they marched south through Thermopylae, taking it after stubborn resistance from its Theban garrison. They went on to occupy the city of Elatea, only a few days' march from both Athens and Thebes. The Athenians, led by Demosthenes, voted to seek alliance with Thebes against Macedonia. Both Athens and Philip sent embassies to win Thebes' favour, but Athens won the contest. Philip marched on Amphissa (ostensibly acting on the request of the Amphictyonic League), capturing the mercenaries sent there by Demosthenes and accepting the city's surrender. Philip then returned to Elatea, sending a final offer of peace to Athens and Thebes, who both rejected it.\nAs Philip marched south, his opponents blocked him near Chaeronea, Boeotia. During the ensuing Battle of Chaeronea, Philip commanded the right wing and Alexander the left, accompanied by a group of Philip's trusted generals. According to the ancient sources, the two sides fought bitterly for some time. Philip deliberately commanded his troops to retreat, counting on the untested Athenian hoplites to follow, thus breaking their line. Alexander was the first to break the Theban lines, followed by Philip's generals. Having damaged the enemy's cohesion, Philip ordered his troops to press forward and quickly routed them. With the Athenians lost, the Thebans were surrounded. Left to fight alone, they were defeated.\n\nAfter the victory at Chaeronea, Philip and Alexander marched unopposed into the Peloponnese, welcomed by all cities; however, when they reached Sparta, they were refused, but did not resort to war. At Corinth, Philip established a \"Hellenic Alliance\" (modelled on the old anti-Persian alliance of the Greco-Persian Wars), which included most Greek city-states except Sparta. Philip was then named \"Hegemon\" (often translated as \"Supreme Commander\") of this league (known by modern scholars as the League of Corinth), and announced his plans to attack the Persian Empire.\n\nWhen Philip returned to Pella, he fell in love with and married Cleopatra Eurydice in 338 BC, the niece of his general Attalus. The marriage made Alexander's position as heir less secure, since any son of Cleopatra Eurydice would be a fully Macedonian heir, while Alexander was only half-Macedonian. During the wedding banquet, a drunken Attalus publicly prayed to the gods that the union would produce a legitimate heir.\n\nAlexander fled Macedon with his mother, dropping her off with her brother, King Alexander I of Epirus in Dodona, capital of the Molossians. He continued to Illyria, where he sought refuge with the Illyrian king and was treated as a guest, despite having defeated them in battle a few years before. However, it appears Philip never intended to disown his politically and militarily trained son. Accordingly, Alexander returned to Macedon after six months due to the efforts of a family friend, Demaratus, who mediated between the two parties.\n\nIn the following year, the Persian satrap (governor) of Caria, Pixodarus, offered his eldest daughter to Alexander's half-brother, Philip Arrhidaeus. Olympias and several of Alexander's friends suggested this showed Philip intended to make Arrhidaeus his heir. Alexander reacted by sending an actor, Thessalus of Corinth, to tell Pixodarus that he should not offer his daughter's hand to an illegitimate son, but instead to Alexander. When Philip heard of this, he stopped the negotiations and scolded Alexander for wishing to marry the daughter of a Carian, explaining that he wanted a better bride for him. Philip exiled four of Alexander's friends, Harpalus, Nearchus, Ptolemy and Erigyius, and had the Corinthians bring Thessalus to him in chains.\n\nIn summer 336 BC, while at Aegae attending the wedding of his daughter Cleopatra to Olympias's brother, Alexander I of Epirus, Philip was assassinated by the captain of his bodyguards, Pausanias. As Pausanias tried to escape, he tripped over a vine and was killed by his pursuers, including two of Alexander's companions, Perdiccas and Leonnatus. Alexander was proclaimed king on the spot by the nobles and army at the age of 20.\n\nAlexander began his reign by eliminating potential rivals to the throne. He had his cousin, the former Amyntas IV, executed. He also had two Macedonian princes from the region of Lyncestis killed, but spared a third, Alexander Lyncestes. Olympias had Cleopatra Eurydice and Europa, her daughter by Philip, burned alive. When Alexander learned about this, he was furious. Alexander also ordered the murder of Attalus, who was in command of the advance guard of the army in Asia Minor and Cleopatra's uncle.\n\nAttalus was at that time corresponding with Demosthenes, regarding the possibility of defecting to Athens. Attalus also had severely insulted Alexander, and following Cleopatra's murder, Alexander may have considered him too dangerous to leave alive. Alexander spared Arrhidaeus, who was by all accounts mentally disabled, possibly as a result of poisoning by Olympias.\n\nNews of Philip's death roused many states into revolt, including Thebes, Athens, Thessaly, and the Thracian tribes north of Macedon. When news of the revolts reached Alexander, he responded quickly. Though advised to use diplomacy, Alexander mustered 3,000 Macedonian cavalry and rode south towards Thessaly. He found the Thessalian army occupying the pass between Mount Olympus and Mount Ossa, and ordered his men to ride over Mount Ossa. When the Thessalians awoke the next day, they found Alexander in their rear and promptly surrendered, adding their cavalry to Alexander's force. He then continued south towards the Peloponnese.\n\nAlexander stopped at Thermopylae, where he was recognized as the leader of the Amphictyonic League before heading south to Corinth. Athens sued for peace and Alexander pardoned the rebels. The famous encounter between Alexander and Diogenes the Cynic occurred during Alexander's stay in Corinth. When Alexander asked Diogenes what he could do for him, the philosopher disdainfully asked Alexander to stand a little to the side, as he was blocking the sunlight. This reply apparently delighted Alexander, who is reported to have said \"But verily, if I were not Alexander, I would like to be Diogenes.\" At Corinth, Alexander took the title of \"Hegemon\" (\"leader\") and, like Philip, was appointed commander for the coming war against Persia. He also received news of a Thracian uprising.\n\nBefore crossing to Asia, Alexander wanted to safeguard his northern borders. In the spring of 335 BC, he advanced to suppress several revolts. Starting from Amphipolis, he travelled east into the country of the \"Independent Thracians\"; and at Mount Haemus, the Macedonian army attacked and defeated the Thracian forces manning the heights. The Macedonians marched into the country of the Triballi, and defeated their army near the Lyginus river (a tributary of the Danube). Alexander then marched for three days to the Danube, encountering the Getae tribe on the opposite shore. Crossing the river at night, he surprised them and forced their army to retreat after the first cavalry skirmish.\n\nNews then reached Alexander that Cleitus, King of Illyria, and King Glaukias of the Taulantii were in open revolt against his authority. Marching west into Illyria, Alexander defeated each in turn, forcing the two rulers to flee with their troops. With these victories, he secured his northern frontier.\n\nWhile Alexander campaigned north, the Thebans and Athenians rebelled once again. Alexander immediately headed south. While the other cities again hesitated, Thebes decided to fight. The Theban resistance was ineffective, and Alexander razed the city and divided its territory between the other Boeotian cities. The end of Thebes cowed Athens, leaving all of Greece temporarily at peace. Alexander then set out on his Asian campaign, leaving Antipater as regent.\n\nAlexander's army crossed the Hellespont in 334 BC with approximately 48,100 soldiers, 6,100 cavalry and a fleet of 120 ships with crews numbering 38,000, drawn from Macedon and various Greek city-states, mercenaries, and feudally raised soldiers from Thrace, Paionia, and Illyria. He showed his intent to conquer the entirety of the Persian Empire by throwing a spear into Asian soil and saying he accepted Asia as a gift from the gods. This also showed Alexander's eagerness to fight, in contrast to his father's preference for diplomacy.\n\nAfter an initial victory against Persian forces at the Battle of the Granicus, Alexander accepted the surrender of the Persian provincial capital and treasury of Sardis; he then proceeded along the Ionian coast, granting autonomy and democracy to the cities. Miletus, held by Achaemenid forces, required a delicate siege operation, with Persian naval forces nearby. Further south, at Halicarnassus, in Caria, Alexander successfully waged his first large-scale siege, eventually forcing his opponents, the mercenary captain Memnon of Rhodes and the Persian satrap of Caria, Orontobates, to withdraw by sea. Alexander left the government of Caria to a member of the Hecatomnid dynasty, Ada, who adopted Alexander.\n\nFrom Halicarnassus, Alexander proceeded into mountainous Lycia and the Pamphylian plain, asserting control over all coastal cities to deny the Persians naval bases. From Pamphylia onwards the coast held no major ports and Alexander moved inland. At Termessos, Alexander humbled but did not storm the Pisidian city. At the ancient Phrygian capital of Gordium, Alexander \"undid\" the hitherto unsolvable Gordian Knot, a feat said to await the future \"king of Asia\". According to the story, Alexander proclaimed that it did not matter how the knot was undone and hacked it apart with his sword.\n\nIn spring 333 BC, Alexander crossed the Taurus into Cilicia. After a long pause due to an illness, he marched on towards Syria. Though outmanoeuvered by Darius' significantly larger army, he marched back to Cilicia, where he defeated Darius at Issus. Darius fled the battle, causing his army to collapse, and left behind his wife, his two daughters, his mother Sisygambis, and a fabulous treasure. He offered a peace treaty that included the lands he had already lost, and a ransom of 10,000 talents for his family. Alexander replied that since he was now king of Asia, it was he alone who decided territorial divisions.\nAlexander proceeded to take possession of Syria, and most of the coast of the Levant. In the following year, 332 BC, he was forced to attack Tyre, which he captured after a long and difficult siege. The men of military age were massacred and the women and children sold into slavery.\n\nWhen Alexander destroyed Tyre, most of the towns on the route to Egypt quickly capitulated. However, Alexander met with resistance at Gaza. The stronghold was heavily fortified and built on a hill, requiring a siege. When \"his engineers pointed out to him that because of the height of the mound it would be impossible… this encouraged Alexander all the more to make the attempt\". After three unsuccessful assaults, the stronghold fell, but not before Alexander had received a serious shoulder wound. As in Tyre, men of military age were put to the sword and the women and children were sold into slavery.\n\nAlexander advanced on Egypt in later 332 BC, where he was regarded as a liberator. He was pronounced son of the deity Amun at the Oracle of Siwa Oasis in the Libyan desert. Henceforth, Alexander often referred to Zeus-Ammon as his true father, and after his death, currency depicted him adorned with the horns of a ram as a symbol of his divinity. During his stay in Egypt, he founded Alexandria-by-Egypt, which would become the prosperous capital of the Ptolemaic Kingdom after his death.\n\nLeaving Egypt in 331 BC, Alexander marched eastward into Mesopotamia (now northern Iraq) and again defeated Darius, at the Battle of Gaugamela. Darius once more fled the field, and Alexander chased him as far as Arbela. Gaugamela would be the final and decisive encounter between the two. Darius fled over the mountains to Ecbatana (modern Hamedan), while Alexander captured Babylon.\n\nFrom Babylon, Alexander went to Susa, one of the Achaemenid capitals, and captured its treasury. He sent the bulk of his army to the Persian ceremonial capital of Persepolis via the Persian Royal Road. Alexander himself took selected troops on the direct route to the city. He then stormed the pass of the Persian Gates (in the modern Zagros Mountains) which had been blocked by a Persian army under Ariobarzanes and then hurried to Persepolis before its garrison could loot the treasury.\n\nOn entering Persepolis, Alexander allowed his troops to loot the city for several days. Alexander stayed in Persepolis for five months. During his stay a fire broke out in the eastern palace of Xerxes I and spread to the rest of the city. Possible causes include a drunken accident or deliberate revenge for the burning of the Acropolis of Athens during the Second Persian War by Xerxes. Even as he watched the city burn, Alexander immediately began to regret his decision. Plutarch claims that he ordered his men to put out the fires, but that the flames had already spread to most of the city. Curtius claims that Alexander did not regret his decision until the next morning. Plutarch recounts an anecdote in which Alexander pauses and talks to a fallen statue of Xerxes as if it were a live person:\n\nAlexander then chased Darius, first into Media, and then Parthia. The Persian king no longer controlled his own destiny, and was taken prisoner by Bessus, his Bactrian satrap and kinsman. As Alexander approached, Bessus had his men fatally stab the Great King and then declared himself Darius' successor as Artaxerxes V, before retreating into Central Asia to launch a guerrilla campaign against Alexander. Alexander buried Darius' remains next to his Achaemenid predecessors in a regal funeral. He claimed that, while dying, Darius had named him as his successor to the Achaemenid throne. The Achaemenid Empire is normally considered to have fallen with Darius.\n\nAlexander viewed Bessus as a usurper and set out to defeat him. This campaign, initially against Bessus, turned into a grand tour of central Asia. Alexander founded a series of new cities, all called Alexandria, including modern Kandahar in Afghanistan, and Alexandria Eschate (\"The Furthest\") in modern Tajikistan. The campaign took Alexander through Media, Parthia, Aria (West Afghanistan), Drangiana, Arachosia (South and Central Afghanistan), Bactria (North and Central Afghanistan), and Scythia.\n\nSpitamenes, who held an undefined position in the satrapy of Sogdiana, in 329 BC betrayed Bessus to Ptolemy, one of Alexander's trusted companions, and Bessus was executed. However, when, at some point later, Alexander was on the Jaxartes dealing with an incursion by a horse nomad army, Spitamenes raised Sogdiana in revolt. Alexander personally defeated the Scythians at the Battle of Jaxartes and immediately launched a campaign against Spitamenes, defeating him in the Battle of Gabai. After the defeat, Spitamenes was killed by his own men, who then sued for peace.\n\nDuring this time, Alexander adopted some elements of Persian dress and customs at his court, notably the custom of \"proskynesis\", either a symbolic kissing of the hand, or prostration on the ground, that Persians showed to their social superiors. The Greeks regarded the gesture as the province of deities and believed that Alexander meant to deify himself by requiring it. This cost him the sympathies of many of his countrymen, and he eventually abandoned it.\n\nA plot against his life was revealed, and one of his officers, Philotas, was executed for failing to alert Alexander. The death of the son necessitated the death of the father, and thus Parmenion, who had been charged with guarding the treasury at Ecbatana, was assassinated at Alexander's command, to prevent attempts at vengeance. Most infamously, Alexander personally killed the man who had saved his life at Granicus, Cleitus the Black, during a violent drunken altercation at Maracanda (modern day Samarkand in Uzbekistan), in which Cleitus accused Alexander of several judgmental mistakes and most especially, of having forgotten the Macedonian ways in favour of a corrupt oriental lifestyle.\n\nLater, in the Central Asian campaign, a second plot against his life was revealed, this one instigated by his own royal pages. His official historian, Callisthenes of Olynthus, was implicated in the plot, and in the \"Anabasis of Alexander\", Arrian states that Callisthenes and the pages were then tortured on the rack as punishment, and likely died soon after. It remains unclear if Callisthenes was actually involved in the plot, for prior to his accusation he had fallen out of favour by leading the opposition to the attempt to introduce proskynesis.\n\nWhen Alexander set out for Asia, he left his general Antipater, an experienced military and political leader and part of Philip II's \"Old Guard\", in charge of Macedon. Alexander's sacking of Thebes ensured that Greece remained quiet during his absence. The one exception was a call to arms by Spartan king Agis III in 331 BC, whom Antipater defeated and killed in the battle of Megalopolis. Antipater referred the Spartans' punishment to the League of Corinth, which then deferred to Alexander, who chose to pardon them. There was also considerable friction between Antipater and Olympias, and each complained to Alexander about the other.\n\nIn general, Greece enjoyed a period of peace and prosperity during Alexander's campaign in Asia. Alexander sent back vast sums from his conquest, which stimulated the economy and increased trade across his empire. However, Alexander's constant demands for troops and the migration of Macedonians throughout his empire depleted Macedon's strength, greatly weakening it in the years after Alexander, and ultimately led to its subjugation by Rome after the Third Macedonian War (171–168 BC).\n\nAfter the death of Spitamenes and his marriage to Roxana (Raoxshna in Old Iranian) to cement relations with his new satrapies, Alexander turned to the Indian subcontinent. He invited the chieftains of the former satrapy of Gandhara (a region presently straddling eastern Afghanistan and northern Pakistan), to come to him and submit to his authority. Omphis (Indian name Ambhi), the ruler of Taxila, whose kingdom extended from the Indus to the Hydaspes (Jhelum), complied, but the chieftains of some hill clans, including the Aspasioi and Assakenoi sections of the Kambojas (known in Indian texts also as Ashvayanas and Ashvakayanas), refused to submit. Ambhi hastened to relieve Alexander of his apprehension and met him with valuable presents, placing himself and all his forces at his disposal. Alexander not only returned Ambhi his title and the gifts but he also presented him with a wardrobe of \"Persian robes, gold and silver ornaments, 30 horses and 1,000 talents in gold\". Alexander was emboldened to divide his forces, and Ambhi assisted Hephaestion and Perdiccas in constructing a bridge over the Indus where it bends at Hund (Fox 1973), supplied their troops with provisions, and received Alexander himself, and his whole army, in his capital city of Taxila, with every demonstration of friendship and the most liberal hospitality.\n\nOn the subsequent advance of the Macedonian king, Taxiles accompanied him with a force of 5,000 men and took part in the battle of the Hydaspes River. After that victory he was sent by Alexander in pursuit of Porus, to whom he was charged to offer favourable terms, but narrowly escaped losing his life at the hands of his old enemy. Subsequently, however, the two rivals were reconciled by the personal mediation of Alexander; and Taxiles, after having contributed zealously to the equipment of the fleet on the Hydaspes, was entrusted by the king with the government of the whole territory between that river and the Indus. A considerable accession of power was granted him after the death of Philip, son of Machatas; and he was allowed to retain his authority at the death of Alexander himself (323 BC), as well as in the subsequent partition of the provinces at Triparadisus, 321 BC.\n\nIn the winter of 327/326 BC, Alexander personally led a campaign against the Aspasioi of Kunar valleys, the Guraeans of the Guraeus valley, and the Assakenoi of the Swat and Buner valleys. A fierce contest ensued with the Aspasioi in which Alexander was wounded in the shoulder by a dart, but eventually the Aspasioi lost. Alexander then faced the Assakenoi, who fought against him from the strongholds of Massaga, Ora and Aornos.\n\nThe fort of Massaga was reduced only after days of bloody fighting, in which Alexander was wounded seriously in the ankle. According to Curtius, \"Not only did Alexander slaughter the entire population of Massaga, but also did he reduce its buildings to rubble.\" A similar slaughter followed at Ora. In the aftermath of Massaga and Ora, numerous Assakenians fled to the fortress of Aornos. Alexander followed close behind and captured the strategic hill-fort after four bloody days.\n\nAfter Aornos, Alexander crossed the Indus and fought and won an epic battle against King Porus, who ruled a region lying between the Hydaspes and the Acesines (Chenab), in what is now the Punjab, in the Battle of the Hydaspes in 326 BC. Alexander was impressed by Porus' bravery, and made him an ally. He appointed Porus as satrap, and added to Porus' territory land that he did not previously own, towards the south-east, up to the Hyphasis (Beas). Choosing a local helped him control these lands so distant from Greece. Alexander founded two cities on opposite sides of the Hydaspes river, naming one Bucephala, in honour of his horse, who died around this time. The other was Nicaea (Victory), thought to be located at the site of modern-day Mong, Punjab.\n\nEast of Porus' kingdom, near the Ganges River, was the Nanda Empire of Magadha, and further east, the Gangaridai Empire of Bengal region of the Indian subcontinent. Fearing the prospect of facing other large armies and exhausted by years of campaigning, Alexander's army mutinied at the Hyphasis River (Beas), refusing to march farther east. This river thus marks the easternmost extent of Alexander's conquests.\n\nAlexander tried to persuade his soldiers to march farther, but his general Coenus pleaded with him to change his opinion and return; the men, he said, \"longed to again see their parents, their wives and children, their homeland\". Alexander eventually agreed and turned south, marching along the Indus. Along the way his army conquered the Malhi (in modern-day Multan) and other Indian tribes and Alexander sustained an injury during the siege.\n\nAlexander sent much of his army to Carmania (modern southern Iran) with general Craterus, and commissioned a fleet to explore the Persian Gulf shore under his admiral Nearchus, while he led the rest back to Persia through the more difficult southern route along the Gedrosian Desert and Makran. Alexander reached Susa in 324 BC, but not before losing many men to the harsh desert.\n\nDiscovering that many of his satraps and military governors had misbehaved in his absence, Alexander executed several of them as examples on his way to Susa. As a gesture of thanks, he paid off the debts of his soldiers, and announced that he would send over-aged and disabled veterans back to Macedon, led by Craterus. His troops misunderstood his intention and mutinied at the town of Opis. They refused to be sent away and criticized his adoption of Persian customs and dress and the introduction of Persian officers and soldiers into Macedonian units.\nAfter three days, unable to persuade his men to back down, Alexander gave Persians command posts in the army and conferred Macedonian military titles upon Persian units. The Macedonians quickly begged forgiveness, which Alexander accepted, and held a great banquet for several thousand of his men at which he and they ate together. In an attempt to craft a lasting harmony between his Macedonian and Persian subjects, Alexander held a mass marriage of his senior officers to Persian and other noblewomen at Susa, but few of those marriages seem to have lasted much beyond a year. Meanwhile, upon his return to Persia, Alexander learned that guards of the tomb of Cyrus the Great in Pasargadae had desecrated it, and swiftly executed them. Alexander admired Cyrus the Great, from an early age reading Xenophon's \"Cyropaedia\", which described Cyrus's heroism in battle and governance as a king and legislator. During his visit to Pasargadae Alexander ordered his architect Aristobulus to decorate the interior of the sepulchral chamber of Cyrus' tomb.\n\nAfterwards, Alexander travelled to Ecbatana to retrieve the bulk of the Persian treasure. There, his closest friend and possible lover, Hephaestion, died of illness or poisoning. Hephaestion's death devastated Alexander, and he ordered the preparation of an expensive funeral pyre in Babylon, as well as a decree for public mourning. Back in Babylon, Alexander planned a series of new campaigns, beginning with an invasion of Arabia, but he would not have a chance to realize them, as he died shortly after Hephaestion.\n\nOn either 10 or 11 June 323 BC, Alexander died in the palace of Nebuchadnezzar II, in Babylon, at age 32. There are two different versions of Alexander's death and details of the death differ slightly in each. Plutarch's account is that roughly 14 days before his death, Alexander entertained admiral Nearchus, and spent the night and next day drinking with Medius of Larissa. He developed a fever, which worsened until he was unable to speak. The common soldiers, anxious about his health, were granted the right to file past him as he silently waved at them. In the second account, Diodorus recounts that Alexander was struck with pain after downing a large bowl of unmixed wine in honour of Heracles, followed by 11 days of weakness; he did not develop a fever and died after some agony. Arrian also mentioned this as an alternative, but Plutarch specifically denied this claim.\n\nGiven the propensity of the Macedonian aristocracy to assassination, foul play featured in multiple accounts of his death. Diodorus, Plutarch, Arrian and Justin all mentioned the theory that Alexander was poisoned. Justin stated that Alexander was the victim of a poisoning conspiracy, Plutarch dismissed it as a fabrication, while both Diodorus and Arrian noted that they mentioned it only for the sake of completeness. The accounts were nevertheless fairly consistent in designating Antipater, recently removed as Macedonian viceroy, and at odds with Olympias, as the head of the alleged plot. Perhaps taking his summons to Babylon as a death sentence, and having seen the fate of Parmenion and Philotas, Antipater purportedly arranged for Alexander to be poisoned by his son Iollas, who was Alexander's wine-pourer. There was even a suggestion that Aristotle may have participated.\n\nThe strongest argument against the poison theory is the fact that twelve days passed between the start of his illness and his death; such long-acting poisons were probably not available. However, in a 2003 BBC documentary investigating the death of Alexander, Leo Schep from the New Zealand National Poisons Centre proposed that the plant white hellebore (\"Veratrum album\"), which was known in antiquity, may have been used to poison Alexander. In a 2014 manuscript in the journal Clinical Toxicology, Schep suggested Alexander's wine was spiked with \"Veratrum album\", and that this would produce poisoning symptoms that match the course of events described in the \"Alexander Romance\". \"Veratrum album\" poisoning can have a prolonged course and it was suggested that if Alexander was poisoned, \"Veratrum album\" offers the most plausible cause. Another poisoning explanation put forward in 2010 proposed that the circumstances of his death were compatible with poisoning by water of the river Styx (modern-day Mavroneri in Arcadia, Greece) that contained calicheamicin, a dangerous compound produced by bacteria.\n\nSeveral natural causes (diseases) have been suggested, including malaria and typhoid fever. A 1998 article in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" attributed his death to typhoid fever complicated by bowel perforation and ascending paralysis. Another recent analysis suggested pyogenic (infectious) spondylitis or meningitis. Other illnesses fit the symptoms, including acute pancreatitis and West Nile virus. Natural-cause theories also tend to emphasize that Alexander's health may have been in general decline after years of heavy drinking and severe wounds. The anguish that Alexander felt after Hephaestion's death may also have contributed to his declining health.\n\nAlexander's body was laid in a gold anthropoid sarcophagus that was filled with honey, which was in turn placed in a gold casket. According to Aelian, a seer called Aristander foretold that the land where Alexander was laid to rest \"would be happy and unvanquishable forever\". Perhaps more likely, the successors may have seen possession of the body as a symbol of legitimacy, since burying the prior king was a royal prerogative.\n\nWhile Alexander's funeral cortege was on its way to Macedon, Ptolemy seized it and took it temporarily to Memphis. His successor, Ptolemy II Philadelphus, transferred the sarcophagus to Alexandria, where it remained until at least late Antiquity. Ptolemy IX Lathyros, one of Ptolemy's final successors, replaced Alexander's sarcophagus with a glass one so he could convert the original to coinage. The recent discovery of an enormous tomb in northern Greece, at Amphipolis, dating from the time of Alexander the Great has given rise to speculation that its original intent was to be the burial place of Alexander. This would fit with the intended destination of Alexander's funeral cortege.\n\nPompey, Julius Caesar and Augustus all visited the tomb in Alexandria, where Augustus, allegedly, accidentally knocked the nose off. Caligula was said to have taken Alexander's breastplate from the tomb for his own use. Around AD 200, Emperor Septimius Severus closed Alexander's tomb to the public. His son and successor, Caracalla, a great admirer, visited the tomb during his own reign. After this, details on the fate of the tomb are hazy.\n\nThe so-called \"Alexander Sarcophagus\", discovered near Sidon and now in the Istanbul Archaeology Museum, is so named not because it was thought to have contained Alexander's remains, but because its bas-reliefs depict Alexander and his companions fighting the Persians and hunting. It was originally thought to have been the sarcophagus of Abdalonymus (died 311 BC), the king of Sidon appointed by Alexander immediately following the battle of Issus in 331. However, more recently, it has been suggested that it may date from earlier than Abdalonymus' death.\n\nAlexander's death was so sudden that when reports of his death reached Greece, they were not immediately believed. Alexander had no obvious or legitimate heir, his son Alexander IV by Roxane being born after Alexander's death. According to Diodorus, Alexander's companions asked him on his deathbed to whom he bequeathed his kingdom; his laconic reply was \"tôi kratistôi\"—\"to the strongest\". Another theory is that his successors willfully or erroneously misheard \"tôi Kraterôi\"—\"to Craterus\", the general leading his Macedonian troops home and newly entrusted with the regency of Macedonia.\n\nArrian and Plutarch claimed that Alexander was speechless by this point, implying that this was an apocryphal story. Diodorus, Curtius and Justin offered the more plausible story that Alexander passed his signet ring to Perdiccas, a bodyguard and leader of the companion cavalry, in front of witnesses, thereby nominating him.\n\nPerdiccas initially did not claim power, instead suggesting that Roxane's baby would be king, if male; with himself, Craterus, Leonnatus, and Antipater as guardians. However, the infantry, under the command of Meleager, rejected this arrangement since they had been excluded from the discussion. Instead, they supported Alexander's half-brother Philip Arrhidaeus. Eventually, the two sides reconciled, and after the birth of Alexander IV, he and Philip III were appointed joint kings, albeit in name only.\n\nDissension and rivalry soon afflicted the Macedonians, however. The satrapies handed out by Perdiccas at the Partition of Babylon became power bases each general used to bid for power. After the assassination of Perdiccas in 321 BC, Macedonian unity collapsed, and 40 years of war between \"The Successors\" (\"Diadochi\") ensued before the Hellenistic world settled into four stable power blocs: Ptolemaic Egypt, Seleucid Mesopotamia and Central Asia, Attalid Anatolia, and Antigonid Macedon. In the process, both Alexander IV and Philip III were murdered.\n\nDiodorus stated that Alexander had given detailed written instructions to Craterus some time before his death. Craterus started to carry out Alexander's commands, but the successors chose not to further implement them, on the grounds they were impractical and extravagant. Nevertheless, Perdiccas read Alexander's will to his troops.\n\nAlexander's will called for military expansion into the southern and western Mediterranean, monumental constructions, and the intermixing of Eastern and Western populations. It included:\n\nAlexander earned the epithet \"the Great\" due to his unparalleled success as a military commander. He never lost a battle, despite typically being outnumbered. This was due to use of terrain, phalanx and cavalry tactics, bold strategy, and the fierce loyalty of his troops. The Macedonian phalanx, armed with the sarissa, a spear long, had been developed and perfected by Philip II through rigorous training, and Alexander used its speed and maneuverability to great effect against larger but more disparate Persian forces. Alexander also recognized the potential for disunity among his diverse army, which employed various languages and weapons. He overcame this by being personally involved in battle, in the manner of a Macedonian king.\n\nIn his first battle in Asia, at Granicus, Alexander used only a small part of his forces, perhaps 13,000 infantry with 5,000 cavalry, against a much larger Persian force of 40,000. Alexander placed the phalanx at the center and cavalry and archers on the wings, so that his line matched the length of the Persian cavalry line, about . By contrast, the Persian infantry was stationed behind its cavalry. This ensured that Alexander would not be outflanked, while his phalanx, armed with long pikes, had a considerable advantage over the Persians' scimitars and javelins. Macedonian losses were negligible compared to those of the Persians.\n\nAt Issus in 333 BC, his first confrontation with Darius, he used the same deployment, and again the central phalanx pushed through. Alexander personally led the charge in the center, routing the opposing army. At the decisive encounter with Darius at Gaugamela, Darius equipped his chariots with scythes on the wheels to break up the phalanx and equipped his cavalry with pikes. Alexander arranged a double phalanx, with the center advancing at an angle, parting when the chariots bore down and then reforming. The advance was successful and broke Darius' center, causing the latter to flee once again.\n\nWhen faced with opponents who used unfamiliar fighting techniques, such as in Central Asia and India, Alexander adapted his forces to his opponents' style. Thus, in Bactria and Sogdiana, Alexander successfully used his javelin throwers and archers to prevent outflanking movements, while massing his cavalry at the center. In India, confronted by Porus' elephant corps, the Macedonians opened their ranks to envelop the elephants and used their sarissas to strike upwards and dislodge the elephants' handlers.\n\nGreek biographer Plutarch () describes Alexander's appearance as:\n\nGreek historian Arrian (Lucius Flavius Arrianus 'Xenophon' ) described Alexander as:\n\nThe semi-legendary \"Alexander Romance\" also suggests that Alexander exhibited heterochromia iridum: that one eye was dark and the other light.\n\nBritish historian Peter Green provided a description of Alexander's appearance, based on his review of statues and some ancient documents:\n\nAncient authors recorded that Alexander was so pleased with portraits of himself created by Lysippos that he forbade other sculptors from crafting his image. Lysippos had often used the contrapposto sculptural scheme to portray Alexander and other characters such as Apoxyomenos, Hermes and Eros. Lysippos' sculpture, famous for its naturalism, as opposed to a stiffer, more static pose, is thought to be the most faithful depiction.\n\nSome of Alexander's strongest personality traits formed in response to his parents. His mother had huge ambitions, and encouraged him to believe it was his destiny to conquer the Persian Empire. Olympias' influence instilled a sense of destiny in him, and Plutarch tells how his ambition \"kept his spirit serious and lofty in advance of his years\". However, his father Philip was Alexander's most immediate and influential role model, as the young Alexander watched him campaign practically every year, winning victory after victory while ignoring severe wounds. Alexander's relationship with his father forged the competitive side of his personality; he had a need to out-do his father, illustrated by his reckless behaviour in battle. While Alexander worried that his father would leave him \"no great or brilliant achievement to be displayed to the world\", he also downplayed his father's achievements to his companions.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, among Alexander's traits were a violent temper and rash, impulsive nature, which undoubtedly contributed to some of his decisions. Although Alexander was stubborn and did not respond well to orders from his father, he was open to reasoned debate. He had a calmer side—perceptive, logical, and calculating. He had a great desire for knowledge, a love for philosophy, and was an avid reader. This was no doubt in part due to Aristotle's tutelage; Alexander was intelligent and quick to learn. His intelligent and rational side was amply demonstrated by his ability and success as a general. He had great self-restraint in \"pleasures of the body\", in contrast with his lack of self-control with alcohol.\n\nAlexander was erudite and patronized both arts and sciences. However, he had little interest in sports or the Olympic games (unlike his father), seeking only the Homeric ideals of honour (\"timê\") and glory (\"kudos\"). He had great charisma and force of personality, characteristics which made him a great leader. His unique abilities were further demonstrated by the inability of any of his generals to unite Macedonia and retain the Empire after his death—only Alexander had the ability to do so.\n\nDuring his final years, and especially after the death of Hephaestion, Alexander began to exhibit signs of megalomania and paranoia. His extraordinary achievements, coupled with his own ineffable sense of destiny and the flattery of his companions, may have combined to produce this effect. His delusions of grandeur are readily visible in his will and in his desire to conquer the world, in as much as he is by various sources described as having \"boundless ambition\", an epithet, the meaning of which has descended into an historical cliché.\n\nHe appears to have believed himself a deity, or at least sought to deify himself. Olympias always insisted to him that he was the son of Zeus, a theory apparently confirmed to him by the oracle of Amun at Siwa. He began to identify himself as the son of Zeus-Ammon. Alexander adopted elements of Persian dress and customs at court, notably \"proskynesis\", a practice of which Macedonians disapproved, and were loath to perform. This behaviour cost him the sympathies of many of his countrymen. However, Alexander also was a pragmatic ruler who understood the difficulties of ruling culturally disparate peoples, many of whom lived in kingdoms where the king was divine. Thus, rather than megalomania, his behaviour may simply have been a practical attempt at strengthening his rule and keeping his empire together.\n\nAlexander married three times: Roxana, daughter of the Sogdian nobleman Oxyartes of Bactria, out of love; and the Persian princesses Stateira II and Parysatis II, the former a daughter of Darius III and latter a daughter of Artaxerxes III, for political reasons. He apparently had two sons, Alexander IV of Macedon by Roxana and, possibly, Heracles of Macedon from his mistress Barsine. He lost another child when Roxana miscarried at Babylon.\n\nAlexander also had a close relationship with his friend, general, and bodyguard Hephaestion, the son of a Macedonian noble. Hephaestion's death devastated Alexander. This event may have contributed to Alexander's failing health and detached mental state during his final months.\n\nAlexander's sexuality has been the subject of speculation and controversy. No ancient sources stated that Alexander had homosexual relationships, or that Alexander's relationship with Hephaestion was sexual. Aelian, however, writes of Alexander's visit to Troy where \"Alexander garlanded the tomb of Achilles, and Hephaestion that of Patroclus, the latter hinting that he was a beloved of Alexander, in just the same way as Patroclus was of Achilles.\" Noting that the word \"eromenos\" (ancient Greek for beloved) does not necessarily bear sexual meaning. Alexander may have been bisexual, in keeping with Greek upper class custom.\n\nGreen argues that there is little evidence in ancient sources that Alexander had much carnal interest in women; he did not produce an heir until the very end of his life. However, he was relatively young when he died, and Ogden suggests that Alexander's matrimonial record is more impressive than his father's at the same age. Apart from wives, Alexander had many more female companions. Alexander accumulated a harem in the style of Persian kings, but he used it rather sparingly, showing great self-control in \"pleasures of the body\". Nevertheless, Plutarch described how Alexander was infatuated by Roxana while complimenting him on not forcing himself on her. Green suggested that, in the context of the period, Alexander formed quite strong friendships with women, including Ada of Caria, who adopted him, and even Darius' mother Sisygambis, who supposedly died from grief upon hearing of Alexander's death.\n\nAlexander's legacy extended beyond his military conquests. His campaigns greatly increased contacts and trade between East and West, and vast areas to the east were significantly exposed to Greek civilization and influence. Some of the cities he founded became major cultural centers, many surviving into the 21st century. His chroniclers recorded valuable information about the areas through which he marched, while the Greeks themselves got a sense of belonging to a world beyond the Mediterranean.\n\nAlexander's most immediate legacy was the introduction of Macedonian rule to huge new swathes of Asia. At the time of his death, Alexander's empire covered some , and was the largest state of its time. Many of these areas remained in Macedonian hands or under Greek influence for the next 200–300 years. The successor states that emerged were, at least initially, dominant forces, and these 300 years are often referred to as the Hellenistic period.\n\nThe eastern borders of Alexander's empire began to collapse even during his lifetime. However, the power vacuum he left in the northwest of the Indian subcontinent directly gave rise to one of the most powerful Indian dynasties in history, the Maurya Empire. Taking advantage of this power vacuum, Chandragupta Maurya (referred to in Greek sources as \"Sandrokottos\"), of relatively humble origin, took control of the Punjab, and with that power base proceeded to conquer the Nanda Empire.\n\nOver the course of his conquests, Alexander founded some twenty cities that bore his name, most of them east of the Tigris. The first, and greatest, was Alexandria in Egypt, which would become one of the leading Mediterranean cities. The cities' locations reflected trade routes as well as defensive positions. At first, the cities must have been inhospitable, little more than defensive garrisons. Following Alexander's death, many Greeks who had settled there tried to return to Greece. However, a century or so after Alexander's death, many of the Alexandrias were thriving, with elaborate public buildings and substantial populations that included both Greek and local peoples.\n\n \nIn 334 BC, Alexander the Great donated funds for the completion of the new temple of Athena Polias in Priene. An inscription from the temple, now housed in the British Museum, declares: \"King Alexander dedicated [this temple] to Athena Polias.\" This inscription is one of the few independent archaeological discoveries confirming an episode from Alexander's life. The temple was designed by Pytheos, one of the architects of the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus.\n\n\"Hellenization\" was coined by the German historian Johann Gustav Droysen to denote the spread of Greek language, culture, and population into the former Persian empire after Alexander's conquest. That this export took place is undoubted, and can be seen in the great Hellenistic cities of, for instance, Alexandria, Antioch and Seleucia (south of modern Baghdad). Alexander sought to insert Greek elements into Persian culture and attempted to hybridize Greek and Persian culture. This culminated in his aspiration to homogenize the populations of Asia and Europe. However, his successors explicitly rejected such policies. Nevertheless, Hellenization occurred throughout the region, accompanied by a distinct and opposite 'Orientalization' of the successor states.\n\nThe core of the Hellenistic culture promulgated by the conquests was essentially Athenian. The close association of men from across Greece in Alexander's army directly led to the emergence of the largely Attic-based \"koine\", or \"common\" Greek dialect. Koine spread throughout the Hellenistic world, becoming the lingua franca of Hellenistic lands and eventually the ancestor of modern Greek. Furthermore, town planning, education, local government, and art current in the Hellenistic period were all based on Classical Greek ideals, evolving into distinct new forms commonly grouped as Hellenistic. Aspects of Hellenistic culture were still evident in the traditions of the Byzantine Empire in the mid-15th century.\nSome of the most pronounced effects of Hellenization can be seen in Afghanistan and India, in the region of the relatively late-rising Greco-Bactrian Kingdom (250–125 BC) (in modern Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Tajikistan) and the Indo-Greek Kingdom (180 BC – 10 AD) in modern Afghanistan and India. There on the newly formed Silk Road Greek culture apparently hybridized with Indian, and especially Buddhist culture. The resulting syncretism known as Greco-Buddhism heavily influenced the development of Buddhism and created a culture of Greco-Buddhist art. These Greco-Buddhist kingdoms sent some of the first Buddhist missionaries to China, Sri Lanka, and the Mediterranean (Greco-Buddhist monasticism). Some of the first and most influential figurative portrayals of the Buddha appeared at this time, perhaps modeled on Greek statues of Apollo in the Greco-Buddhist style. Several Buddhist traditions may have been influenced by the ancient Greek religion: the concept of Boddhisatvas is reminiscent of Greek divine heroes, and some Mahayana ceremonial practices (burning incense, gifts of flowers, and food placed on altars) are similar to those practiced by the ancient Greeks; however, similar practices were also observed amongst the native Indic culture. One Greek king, Menander I, probably became Buddhist, and was immortalized in Buddhist literature as 'Milinda'. The process of Hellenization also spurred trade between the east and west. For example, Greek astronomical instruments dating to the 3rd century BC were found in the Greco-Bactrian city of Ai Khanoum in modern-day Afghanistan, while the Greek concept of a spherical earth surrounded by the spheres of planets eventually supplanted the long-standing Indian cosmological belief of a disc consisting of four continents grouped around a central mountain (Mount Meru) like the petals of a flower. The Yavanajataka (lit. Greek astronomical treatise) and Paulisa Siddhanta texts depict the influence of Greek astronomical ideas on Indian astronomy.\n\nFollowing the conquests of Alexander the Great in the east, Hellenistic influence on Indian art was far-ranging. In the area of architecture, a few examples of the Ionic order can be found as far as Pakistan with the Jandial temple near Taxila. Several examples of capitals displaying Ionic influences can be seen as far as Patna, especially with the Pataliputra capital, dated to the 3rd century BC. The Corinthian order is also heavily represented in the art of Gandhara, especially through Indo-Corinthian capitals.\n\nAlexander and his exploits were admired by many Romans, especially generals, who wanted to associate themselves with his achievements. Polybius began his \"Histories\" by reminding Romans of Alexander's achievements, and thereafter Roman leaders saw him as a role model. Pompey the Great adopted the epithet \"Magnus\" and even Alexander's anastole-type haircut, and searched the conquered lands of the east for Alexander's 260-year-old cloak, which he then wore as a sign of greatness. Julius Caesar dedicated a Lysippean equestrian bronze statue but replaced Alexander's head with his own, while Octavian visited Alexander's tomb in Alexandria and temporarily changed his seal from a sphinx to Alexander's profile. The emperor Trajan also admired Alexander, as did Nero and Caracalla. The Macriani, a Roman family that in the person of Macrinus briefly ascended to the imperial throne, kept images of Alexander on their persons, either on jewelry, or embroidered into their clothes.\n\nOn the other hand, some Roman writers, particularly Republican figures, used Alexander as a cautionary tale of how autocratic tendencies can be kept in check by republican values. Alexander was used by these writers as an example of ruler values such as (friendship) and (clemency), but also (anger) and (over-desire for glory).\n\nLegendary accounts surround the life of Alexander the Great, many deriving from his own lifetime, probably encouraged by Alexander himself. His court historian Callisthenes portrayed the sea in Cilicia as drawing back from him in proskynesis. Writing shortly after Alexander's death, another participant, Onesicritus, invented a tryst between Alexander and Thalestris, queen of the mythical Amazons. When Onesicritus read this passage to his patron, Alexander's general and later King Lysimachus reportedly quipped, \"I wonder where I was at the time.\"\n\nIn the first centuries after Alexander's death, probably in Alexandria, a quantity of the legendary material coalesced into a text known as the \"Alexander Romance\", later falsely ascribed to Callisthenes and therefore known as \"Pseudo-Callisthenes\". This text underwent numerous expansions and revisions throughout Antiquity and the Middle Ages, containing many dubious stories, and was translated into numerous languages.\n\nAlexander the Great's accomplishments and legacy have been depicted in many cultures. Alexander has figured in both high and popular culture beginning in his own era to the present day. The \"Alexander Romance\", in particular, has had a significant impact on portrayals of Alexander in later cultures, from Persian to medieval European to modern Greek.\n\nAlexander features prominently in modern Greek folklore, more so than any other ancient figure. The colloquial form of his name in modern Greek (\"O Megalexandros\") is a household name, and he is the only ancient hero to appear in the Karagiozis shadow play. One well-known fable among Greek seamen involves a solitary mermaid who would grasp a ship's prow during a storm and ask the captain \"Is King Alexander alive?\" The correct answer is \"He is alive and well and rules the world!\" causing the mermaid to vanish and the sea to calm. Any other answer would cause the mermaid to turn into a raging Gorgon who would drag the ship to the bottom of the sea, all hands aboard.\n\nIn pre-Islamic Middle Persian (Zoroastrian) literature, Alexander is referred to by the epithet \"gujastak\", meaning \"accursed\", and is accused of destroying temples and burning the sacred texts of Zoroastrianism. In Sunni Islamic Persia, under the influence of the \"Alexander Romance\" (in \"Iskandarnamah\"), a more positive portrayal of Alexander emerges. Firdausi's \"Shahnameh\" (\"The Book of Kings\") includes Alexander in a line of legitimate Persian shahs, a mythical figure who explored the far reaches of the world in search of the Fountain of Youth. Later Persian writers associate him with philosophy, portraying him at a symposium with figures such as Socrates, Plato and Aristotle, in search of immortality.\nThe figure of Dhul-Qarnayn (literally \"the Two-Horned One\") mentioned in the Quran is believed by some scholars to represent Alexander, due to parallels with the \"Alexander Romance\". In this tradition, he was a heroic figure who built a wall to defend against the nations of Gog and Magog. He then travelled the known world in search of the Water of Life and Immortality, eventually becoming a prophet.\n\nThe Syriac version of the \"Alexander Romance\" portrays him as an ideal Christian world conqueror who prayed to \"the one true God\". In Egypt, Alexander was portrayed as the son of Nectanebo II, the last pharaoh before the Persian conquest. His defeat of Darius was depicted as Egypt's salvation, \"proving\" Egypt was still ruled by an Egyptian.\n\nAccording to Josephus, Alexander was shown the Book of Daniel when he entered Jerusalem, which described a mighty Greek king who would conquer the Persian Empire. This is cited as a reason for sparing Jerusalem.\n\nIn Hindi and Urdu, the name \"Sikandar\", derived from Persian, denotes a rising young talent. In medieval Europe, Alexander the Great was revered as a member of the Nine Worthies, a group of heroes whose lives were believed to encapsulate all the ideal qualities of chivalry.\n\nIrish playwright Aubrey Thomas de Vere wrote \"Alexander the Great, a Dramatic Poem\".\n\nApart from a few inscriptions and fragments, texts written by people who actually knew Alexander or who gathered information from men who served with Alexander were all lost. Contemporaries who wrote accounts of his life included Alexander's campaign historian Callisthenes; Alexander's generals Ptolemy and Nearchus; Aristobulus, a junior officer on the campaigns; and Onesicritus, Alexander's chief helmsman. Their works are lost, but later works based on these original sources have survived. The earliest of these is Diodorus Siculus (1st century BC), followed by Quintus Curtius Rufus (mid-to-late 1st century AD), Arrian (1st to 2nd century AD), the biographer Plutarch (1st to 2nd century AD), and finally Justin, whose work dated as late as the 4th century. Of these, Arrian is generally considered the most reliable, given that he used Ptolemy and Aristobulus as his sources, closely followed by Diodorus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1143139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1143139", "title": "Ankhesenpaaten Tasherit", "text": "Ankhesenpaaten Tasherit\n\nAnkhesenpaaten Tasherit (or Ankhesenpaaten-ta-sherit, “Ankhesenpaaten the Younger”) was an ancient Egyptian princess of the 18th dynasty.\nAnkhesenpaaten Tasherit and another princess, Meritaten Tasherit are two small princesses who appear in scenes dating to the later part of the reign of Akhenaten. The titles of at least one of the princess is of the form \"[...-ta]sherit, born of [...], born of the King's Great Wife [...]. The inscription is damaged and the name of the mother and grandmother of the princesses has not been preserved. Ankhesenpaaten Tasherit has been known to archaeologists since 1938, when a talatat block with her picture and name was found in Hermopolis.\n\nSeveral different sets of parents have been proposed for Ankhesenpaaten Tasherit (as well as Meritaten Tasherit).\n\nShe is most commonly held to have been the daughter of Ankhesenpaaten (a daughter of Pharaoh Akhenaten) and Akhenaten himself. The title of the princess is thought to have been \"Ankhesenpaaten-tasherit, born of Ankehenpaaten, born of the King's Great Wife Nefertiti\". If we assume that Ankhesenpaaten Tasherit was the daughter of Ankhesenpaaten and Akhenaten, she must have been born towards the very end of Akhenaten's reign. Since Ankhesenpaaten was born around the 5th year of her father's reign, the earliest year she could have had a child was around Year 16 of his reign.\n\nSince both Ankhesenpaaten Tasherit and another princess, Meritaten Tasherit appear only in texts that once mentioned Akhenaten's second wife Kiya, it is also possible that they were children of Akhenaten and Kiya, or that they were fictional, replacing the name of Kiya's daughter, who might have been Beketaten, more commonly thought to be Tiye's child.\n\nDodson proposed Ankhesenpaaten-tasherit was a daughter of the young royal couple Meritaten and Smenkhare. The young princess would have been named after Meritaten's sister.\n"}
{"id": "1683258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683258", "title": "Archbishop of Vienna", "text": "Archbishop of Vienna\n\nThe Archbishop of Vienna is the prelate of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Vienna who is concurrently the metropolitan bishop of its ecclesiastical province which includes the dioceses of Eisenstadt, Linz and St. Pölten.\n\nFrom 1469 to 1513, bishops from elsewhere were appointed as administrators. The first bishop residing in Vienna was Georg von Slatkonia. From 1861 to 1918, the archbishops, as members of the Herrenhaus, were represented in the Reichsrat of Cisleithania and bore the title of a Prince-Archbishop.\n"}
{"id": "676228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=676228", "title": "Astarte", "text": "Astarte\n\nAstarte (, \"Astártē\") is the Hellenized form of the Middle Eastern goddess Astoreth (Northwest Semitic), a form of Ishtar (East Semitic), worshipped from the Bronze Age through classical antiquity. The name is particularly associated with her worship in the ancient Levant among the Canaanites and Phoenicians. She was also celebrated in Egypt following the importation of Levantine cults there. The name Astarte is sometimes also applied to her cults in Mesopotamian cultures like Assyria and Babylonia.\n\nAstarte is one of a number of names associated with the chief goddess or female divinity of those peoples. She is recorded in Akkadian as \"As-dar-tu\" (), the masculine form of Ishtar. The name appears in Ugaritic as \"ʻAthtart\" or \"ʻAṯtart\" (𐎓𐎘𐎚𐎗𐎚), in Phoenician as \"ʻAshtart\" or \"ʻAštart\" (𐤏𐤔𐤕𐤓𐤕), in Hebrew as \"Ashtoret\" (). The Hebrews also referred to the \"Ashtarot\" or \"Astartes\" in the plural. The Etruscan Pyrgi Tablets record the name \"Uni-Astre\" ().\n\nAstarte was connected with fertility, sexuality, and war. Her symbols were the lion, the horse, the sphinx, the dove, and a star within a circle indicating the planet Venus. Pictorial representations often show her naked. She has been known as the deified morning and/or evening star. The deity takes on many names and forms among different cultures and according to Canaanite mythology, is one and the same as the Assyro-Babylonian goddess Ištar, taken from the third millennium BC Sumerian goddess Inanna, the first primordial goddess of the planet Venus. Inanna was also known by the Aramaic people as the god Attar, whose myth was construed in a different manner by the people of Greece to align with their own cultural myths and legends, when the Canaanite merchants took the First papyrus from Byblos (the Phoenician city of Gebal) to Greece sometime before the 8th century by a Phoenician called Cadmus the first King of Thebes.\n\nAstarte was worshipped in Syria and Canaan beginning in the first millennium BC and was first mentioned in texts from Ugarit. She came from the same Semitic origins as the Mesopotamian goddess Ishtar, and an Ugaritic text specifically equates her with Ishtar. Her worship spread to Cyprus, where she may have been merged with an ancient Cypriot goddess. This merged Cypriot goddess may have been adopted into the Greek pantheon in Mycenaean and Dark Age times to form Aphrodite. Stephanie Budin, however, argues that Astarte's character was less erotic and more warlike than Ishtar originally was, perhaps because she was influenced by the Canaanite goddess Anat, and that therefore Ishtar, not Astarte, was the direct forerunner of the Cypriot goddess. Greeks in classical, Hellenistic, and Roman times occasionally equated Aphrodite with Astarte and many other Near Eastern goddesses, in keeping with their frequent practice of syncretizing other deities with their own.\n\nOther major centers of Astarte's worship were the Phoenician city states of Sidon, Tyre, and Byblos. Coins from Sidon portray a chariot in which a globe appears, presumably a stone representing Astarte. \"She was often depicted on Sidonian coins as standing on the prow of a galley, leaning forward with right hand outstretched, being thus the original of all figureheads for sailing ships.\" In Sidon, she shared a temple with Eshmun. Coins from Beirut show Poseidon, Astarte, and Eshmun worshipped together.\n\nOther centers were Cythera, Malta, and Eryx in Sicily from which she became known to the Romans as Venus Erycina. A bilingual inscription on the Pyrgi Tablets dating to about 500 BC found near Caere in Etruria equates Astarte with Etruscan Uni-Astre, that is, Juno. At Carthage Astarte was worshipped alongside the goddess Tanit.\n\nThe Aramean goddess Atargatis (Semitic form \"ʻAtarʻatah\") may originally have been equated with Astarte, but the first element of the name Atargatis appears to be related to the Ugaritic form of Asherah's name: Athirat.\n\nIn the Baʿal Epic of Ugarit, Athirat, the consort of the god El, plays a role. She is clearly distinguished from Ashtart in the Ugaritic documents, although in non-Ugaritic sources from later periods the distinction between the two goddesses can be blurred; either as a result of scribal error or through possible syncretism.\n\nAstarte arrived in ancient Egypt during the 18th dynasty along with other deities who were worshipped by northwest Semitic people. She was especially worshipped in her aspect as a warrior goddess, often paired with the goddess Anat.\n\nIn the \"Contest Between Horus and Set\", these two goddesses appear as daughters of Ra and are given as allies to the god Set, here identified with the Semitic name Hadad. Astarte also was identified with the lioness warrior goddess Sekhmet, but seemingly more often conflated, at least in part, with Isis to judge from the many images found of Astarte suckling a small child. Indeed, there is a statue of the 6th century BC in the Cairo Museum, which normally would be taken as portraying Isis with her child Horus on her knee and which in every detail of iconography follows normal Egyptian conventions, but the dedicatory inscription reads: \"Gersaphon, son of Azor, son of Slrt, man of Lydda, for his Lady, for Astarte.\" See G. Daressy, (1905) pl. LXI (CGC 39291).\n\nPlutarch, in his \"On Isis and Osiris\", indicates that the King and Queen of Byblos, who, unknowingly, have the body of Osiris in a pillar in their hall, are \"Melcarthus\" (i.e. Melqart) and Astarte (though he notes some instead call the Queen \"Saosis\" or \"Nemanūs\", which Plutarch interprets as corresponding to the Greek name \"Athenais\").\n\nIn the description of the Phoenician pantheon ascribed to Sanchuniathon, Astarte appears as a daughter of Epigeius, \"sky\" (anc. Greek: Οὐρανός ouranos/ Uranus; Roman god: Caelus) and Ge (Earth), and sister of the god Elus. After Elus overthrows and banishes his father Epigeius, as some kind of trick Epigeius sends Elus his \"virgin daughter\" Astarte along with her sisters Asherah and the goddess who will later be called Ba`alat Gebal, \"the Lady of Byblos\". It seems that this trick does not work, as all three become wives of their brother Elus. Astarte bears Elus children who appear under Greek names as seven daughters called the \"Titanides\" or \"Artemides\" and two sons named \"Pothos\" \"Longing\" (as in πόθος, lust) and \"Eros\" \"Desire\". Later with Elus' consent, Astarte and Hadad reign over the land together. Astarte puts the head of a bull on her own head to symbolize Her sovereignty. Wandering through the world, Astarte takes up a star that has fallen from the sky (a meteorite) and consecrates it at Tyre.\n\nAshteroth Karnaim (Astarte was called Ashteroth in the Hebrew Bible) was a city in the land of Bashan east of the Jordan River, mentioned in and (where it is rendered solely as Ashteroth). The name translates literally to 'Ashteroth of the Horns', with 'Ashteroth' being a Canaanite fertitility goddess and 'horns' being symbolic of mountain peaks. Figurines of Astarte have been found at various archaeological sites in Israel, showing the goddess with two horns.\n\nAstarte's most common symbol was the crescent moon (or horns), according to religious studies scholar Jeffrey Burton Russell, in his book \"The Devil: Perceptions of Evil from Antiquity to Primitive Christianity\".\n\nAshtoreth is mentioned in the Hebrew Bible as a foreign, non-Judahite goddess, the principal goddess of the Sidonians or Phoenicians, representing the productive power of nature. It is generally accepted that the Masoretic \"vowel pointing\" adopted c. 135 AD, indicating the pronunciation \"ʻAštōreṯ\" (\"Ashtoreth,\" \"Ashtoret\") is a deliberate distortion of \"Ashtart\", and that this is probably because the two last syllables have been pointed with the vowels belonging to \"bōšeṯ\", (\"bosheth,\" abomination), to indicate that that word should be substituted when reading. The plural form is pointed \"ʻAštārōṯ\" (\"Ashtaroth\"). The biblical Ashtoreth should not be confused with the goddess Asherah, the form of the names being quite distinct, and both appearing quite distinctly in the First Book of Kings. (In Biblical Hebrew, as in other older Semitic languages, Asherah begins with an \"aleph\" or glottal stop consonant א, while ʻAshtoreth begins with an \"ʻayin\" or voiced pharyngeal consonant ע, indicating the lack of any plausible etymological connection between the two names.) The biblical writers may, however, have conflated some attributes and titles of the two, as seems to have occurred throughout the 1st millennium Levant. For instance, the title \"Queen of heaven\" as mentioned in \"Jeremiah\" has been connected with both (in later Jewish mythology, she became a female demon of lust; for what seems to be the use of the Hebrew plural form \"ʻAštārōṯ\" in this sense, see Astaroth).\n\nSome ancient sources assert that in the territory of Sidon the temple of Astarte was sacred to Europa. According to an old Cretan story, Europa was a Phoenician princess whom Zeus, having transformed himself into a white bull, abducted, and carried to Crete.\n\nSome scholars claim that the cult of the Minoan snake goddess who is identified with Ariadne (the \"utterly pure\") was similar to the cult of Astarte. Her cult as Aphrodite was transmitted to Cythera and then to Greece. Herodotus wrote that the religious community of Aphrodite originated in Phoenicia and came to Greeks from there. He also wrote about the world's largest temple of Aphrodite, in one of the Phoenician cities. \n\nHer name is the second name in an energy chant sometimes used in Wicca: \"Isis, Astarte, Diana, Hecate, Demeter, Kali, Inanna.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20255369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20255369", "title": "Belawadi Mallamma", "text": "Belawadi Mallamma\n\nBelawadi Mallamma (Kannada ಬೆಳವಡಿ ಮಲ್ಲಮ್ಮ ) was a warrior queen from Bailhongal, Belgaum District, North Karnataka, Karnataka, India. Belvadi Mallamma is believed by many to be the first woman to form a women's army to fight against the Marathas. She also credited with being the first queen in the history the Indian subcontinent who built and trained a women's army in the 17th century.\n\nShe was the daughter of Sode King Madhulinga Nayaka and wife of King Ishaprabhu. Belawadi Mallamma, also known as Savitribai, was a Queen of Lingayat community, fought with the Maratha commander Dadaji Raghunath Nedkar while defending her husband's kingdom. In the battle, Shivaji's soldier cut the leg of the horse on which she was riding and she fell. When she rose and began fighting, Shivaji's troops rushed and arrested her. They took her to Shivaji. He praised her and said \"I made a mistake Ma..! Kindly forgive me...I don't want your kingdom\", then released her. She fought enemy troops on horseback, wearing a saree in \"veeragacche\" (soldier's tuck - a tight tucking of the front pleats in the back).\n\nScholar Shesho Srinivas Muthalik recorded the life in the palace of Madhulinga Nayaka in 1704-5 A.D. in the Marathi language.\n"}
{"id": "10059131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10059131", "title": "Bhaja Caves", "text": "Bhaja Caves\n\nBhaja Caves or Bhaje caves is a group of 22 rock-cut caves dating back to the 2nd century BC located in Pune district, near Lonavala, Maharashtra. The caves are 400 feet above the village of Bhaja, on an important ancient trade route running from the Arabian Sea eastward into the Deccan Plateau (the division between North India and South India). The inscriptions and the cave temple are protected as a Monument of National Importance, by the Archaeological Survey of India per Notification No. 2407-A. It belongs to the Hinayana Buddhism sect in Maharashtra. The caves have a number of stupas, one of their significant features. The most prominent excavation is its chaitya (or \"chaityagrha\" - Cave XII), a good example of the early development of this form from wooden architecture, with a vaulted horseshoe ceiling. Its vihara (Cave XVIII) has a pillared verandah in front and is adorned with unique reliefs. These caves are notable for their indications of the awareness of wooden architecture. The carvings prove that tabla – a percussion instrument – was used in India for at least two thousand years. The carving shows a woman playing tabla and another woman, performing dance.\n\nThe Bhaja Caves share architectural design with the Karla Caves. The most impressive monument is the large shrine — chaityagriha — with an open, horseshoe-arched entrance; according to the Archaeological Survey of India, the chaityagrha is the most prominent aspect of the caves, and one of the earliest of the type. The chaitrya has unique reliefs from Indian mythology. Other caves have a nave and aisle, with an apse containing a solid tupa and the aisle circling round the apse, providing the circumambulation path.\n\nChaitygraha has some Buddha images. A cistern inscription shows the name of a donor, \"Maharathi Kosikiputa Vihnudata\", from the 2nd century AD. A wooden beam records two more inscriptions datable to the 2nd century B.C., which indicates caves have been there for at least 2200 years. Eight inscriptions are found in the caves, some giving the name of the donors.\n\nThe sculptures feature elaborate headdress, garlands, and jewellery; they might have originally been painted in bright colors but later covered with plaster. Characteristic for early Buddhism, initially the caves had symbolic Buddha representation. After 4 A.D. Buddha was painted in physical form as well.\n\nNear the last cave is a waterfall which, during the monsoon season, has water that falls into a small pool at the bottom. \nThese caves also provide important proof regarding the history of the Tabla, or Pushkara then called; an Indian percussion instrument, since carvings from 200 BCE show a woman playing tabla and another performing a dance.\n\nA notable part of the monument is a group of 14 stupas, five inside and nine outside an irregular excavation. The stupas are relics of resident monks, who died at Bhaja, and display an inscription with the names of three monks, Ampinika, Dhammagiri and Sanghdina. One of the stupa shows \"Stavirana Bhadanta\" means the venerable reverend inscribed on it. The stupa particulars show the name of the monks and their respective titles. The stupas have been carved very elaborately and two of them have a relic box on their upper side. Names of monks have been titled with \"Theras\".\n\nIt is irregular vihara, 14 feet square, has two cells on each side and three on back side. The chaitya window is ornamental all over cell doors. ploughman’s wife, \"Bodhi\", gifted this Vihara as her name is inscribed on cell door.\n\nRail pattern ornament, broken animal figures, verandah is on frontal side. It is similar to Cave VIII at Pandavleni Caves.\n\nThe chaitya at Bhaja Caves is perhaps the earliest surviving chaitya hall, constructed in the second century BCE. It consists of an apsidal hall with stupa. The columns slope inwards in the imitation of wooden columns that would have been structurally necessary to keep a roof up. The ceiling is barrel vaulted with ancient wooden ribs set into them. The walls are polished in the Mauryan style. It was faced by a substantial wooden facade, now entirely lost. A large horseshoe-shaped window, the chaitya-window, was set above the arched doorway and the whole portico-area was carved to imitate a multi-storeyed building with balconies and windows and sculptured men and women who observed the scene below. This created the appearance of an ancient Indian mansion.\n\nChaitya is 26 feet 8 inches wide and 59 feet long, with semi-circular apse at back, and having aisle 3 feet 5 inches wide, separated from the nave by 27 octagonal shaft. 11 feet 4 inches height. The dogoba is 11 feet diameter at the floor. This resembles the Kondana Caves. The pillar has 7 different symbols of Buddha shown in floral form, buds, leaves, fan.\n\nThis seems to be destroyed may be it would have been wood architect during ancient times. It is 30 feet long and 14.5 feet deep. Rail pattern is observed, a few cells at the back and a bolt door system are observed here.\n\nThis cave is facing towards northern side 6 feet 8 inches wide and 25.5 feet deep, with 7 cells. Stone benches, square windows, stone beds—are observed in the cells.\n\nIt can be reached by stairs to the south of Cave XIV. It is a small vihara 12.5 wide and 10 feet deep. It has two semi-circular niches and a bench on right side.\n\nThis façade has 3 Chaitya arches and the rail pattern.\n\nIt is a small vihara 18.5 feet long and 12.5 deep, with 5 cells, one of the cell has a bench in it. It has two inscriptions in it one of which is damaged. Cell door inscription describes “the gift of cell from \"Nadasava\", a \"Naya\" of \"Bhogwati\".” One more inscription over two wells in one recess describes “a religious gift of cistern by \"Vinhudata\", son of \"Kosiki\", a great warrior.”\n\nIt is a monastery with a verandah. The door has guardian figures on both sides. This cave has Surya riding a chariot and Indra riding on an elephant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4688125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4688125", "title": "Caravan of East and West", "text": "Caravan of East and West\n\nThe Caravan of East and West is a tax-exempt, educational foundation for brotherhood, established in 1929 by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, Lewis Stuyvesant Chanler and his wife Julie and located at 132 East 65th Street in New York City, at \"Caravan House\", the former Chanler town residence.\n\nThe Caravan was a foundation that grew out of the \"New History Society\". The foundation had a quarterly magazine called The Caravan in 1929, it is not clear how long this magazine lasted. They also had a quarterly magazine called The Children's Caravan in 1935, which 'helps to keep children in touch with each other'. (Educational Digest). They also apparently published some other works.\n\nOriginally a part of the Bahá'í Faith, that relationship ended shortly after the New York administration was denied oversight by its founders. Sohrab refused and was ex-communicated in 1939, which then led Julie to also refuse to appear to answer questions. The foundation severed ties, but continued to do work for the Bahá'í cause, without official sanction.\n\n\"At its height, just after World War II, the Caravan had grown to a membership of almost 250,000... and its business soon overshadowed the New History Society.\" Chapter 15 An article in \"The New York Times\", states that in 1949 the German contingent alone had 100,000 members.\n\nTwo of the members of the Board of Directors were Syud Hossein, ambassador from India to Egypt and Minister to Trans-Jordan; and Basant Koomer a lecturer and educator.\n\nA Foundation Fund directed by a Board of Directors with attorney Jacob Greenwald as Chairman was set up to continue the work of both the New Historical Society and the Caravan, planning for the day when Sohrab and Julie were no longer around.\n\nIn 1953, the Bahá'í materials the group had collected had grown so immense that Julie hired architect, John J. McNamara to design a library within the garden space of the Caravan House. Julia Chanler stated that ...\"as part of the construction [of the library] was a block of white marble that `Abdu'l-Bahá had sent to become the corner-stone of the Bahá'í Temple in Wilmette which Sohrab had come to possess.\". This stone was not forwarded to the temple site. The actual cornerstone used in the Temple was procured and donated by a Chicago-area Bahá’í, Ester \"Nettie\" Tobin.\n\nThe group's librarian was Vera Russell.\n\nAn ad for a special meeting of the corporation was placed in \"The New York Times\" November 21, 1958 naming Ronald K. Bayford as Executive Secretary. On October 29, 1961, an announcement of \"Two horticultural lectures presented by the Caravan of East and West, an educational, nonprofit organization\" appears in \"The New York Times\". The Caravan of East and West still existed as late as 1967 when Peter Bloch was director. (Peter Bloch was later president of the Association For Puerto Rican-Hispanic Culture, Inc. \"The New York Times\", June 26, 1972.)\n\nSohrab died in 1958 and Chanler a few years later. The New History Society is now defunct, apparently not outliving Sohrab. Caravan House still exists at the same address as when founded, \"Caravan Institute, Inc. is a non-profit organization founded in 1929 to further education and the arts.\" They have about a million a year in income. and are currently actively operating an adult-education Italian language school with no connection to the Bahá'í Faith. \n\n\n\"Bilingual Education\", United States Congress, Senate, Labor and Public Welfare. On S.428. 1967\n\n\"The Educational Digest\", ed. Lawrence W Prakken, 1935.\n"}
{"id": "31958411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31958411", "title": "Categories of Hadith", "text": "Categories of Hadith\n\nDifferent categories of hadith (sayings attributed to the Islamic prophet Muhammad) have been used by various scholars. The muhaddithun (experts in the science of hadith criticism) generally use two terms - \"taqrīr\" for tacit approvals, and \"khabar\" for sayings and acts ascribed to Muhammad.\n\nThe term taqrīr implies that, in the presence of Muhammad, a believer did something, which Muhammad noticed but did not disapprove or condemn. Thus, the act done by a believer acquired tacit approval from Muhammad. It is commonly acknowledged that a khabar can be true or false. The scholars of the science of hadith criticism hold that a khabar and, therefore, a hadith can be a true report or a concoction. It is on the basis of this premise that the Muslim scholars hold that a hadith offers a \"ẓannī\" (inconclusive/probably true) evidence. It is as though a hadith may have many possibilities on the plane of reliability.\n\n\n\nIn one of the major works in the science of hadith, Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi has divided the individual narratives in the\nfollowing categories, according to their epistemic value:\n\n"}
{"id": "15502646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15502646", "title": "Colette Caillat", "text": "Colette Caillat\n\nColette Caillat (15 January 1921 – 15 January 2007) was a French professor of Sanskrit and comparative grammar. She was also one of the world's leading Jain scholars.\n\nCaillat was born in Saint-Leu-la-Forêt, Seine-et-Oise, January 15, 1921. She embarked upon her academic career with the study of Classical Latin and Greek, focusing on their literary and grammatical aspects. This led her to the study of Sanskrit under Louis Renou and Jules Bloch, who replaced Renou who was visiting India. Bloch played a key role in exposing his students to Indian classical languages such as Pali, Prakrit and Apabhramsha as well as modern Indo-Aryan languages. Encouraged by the strong presence of Indian students in his class, Bloch taught his students various details of Indian life.\n\nAfter clearing the French “Agrégation” civil service examination, Caillat taught at various secondary schools, until she found a post at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique. She was then free to devote all her time to Indian studies, starting with a mémoire on nominal derivation in Middle Indo-Aryan which led her to read Jain texts under the supervision of Walther Schubring in Hamburg. Schubring led Caillat firmly on the path of Jain studies and encouraged her to participate in the Critical Pali Dictionary.\n\nCaillat first visited India in 1963 and remained a regular visitor to India throughout her life. In India, she developed close contact with A.N. Upadhye, Pandit D.D. Malvania, H.C. Bhayani, Pandit Sukhlalji and Muni Punyavijayaji. She stayed and worked several times in Mysore and Ahmedabad.\n\nCaillat first taught Sanskrit and Comparative Grammar at the University of Lyon from 1960 to 1966. She was appointed to the Sorbonne University (then University of Paris-3) in 1967, as the successor of Louis Renou who had died suddenly, where she remained until retirement in 1988. She died on January 15, 2007. Her academic tradition is continued by her students, included among whom is Nalini Balbir.\n\nProf. Caillat was a commander of the Légion d'honneur, commander of Ordre national du Mérite, and commander of the Ordre des Palmes Académiques. She was elected a member of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres in 1987, and was a member of several other academies and scholarly associations.\n\nHer contribution to the field of Jain studies and Middle Indo-Aryan linguistics is manifold. Apart from a number of articles, her main books are the following\n\n\n<!-- *www.ivry.cnrs.fr/iran/Membres/CV/Caillat.htm \n"}
{"id": "403625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=403625", "title": "Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques", "text": "Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques\n\nCustodian of the Two Holy Mosques (abbreviation \"CTHM\") (, '; Servant of the Two Noble Sanctuaries or Protector of the Two Holy Cities, is a royal style that has been used by many Islamic rulers, including the Ayyubids, the Mamluk Sultans of Egypt, the Ottoman Sultans, and in the modern age, Saudi Arabian kings. The title refers to the ruler taking the responsibility of guarding and maintaining the two holiest mosques in Islam: Al-Haram Mosque (, \"The Sacred Mosque\") in Mecca and the Prophet's Mosque () in Medina, both of which are in the Hejazi region of the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nIt is believed that the first person to use the title was Saladin.\n\nAfter defeating the Mamluks and gaining control of the Mecca and Medina in 1517, the Ottoman Sultan Selim I adopted the title. Rather than style himself the \"Ḥākimü'l-Ḥaremeyn\" (, \"Ruler of The Two Holy Cities\"), he accepted the title \"Ḫādimü'l-Ḥaremeyn\" (, \"Servant of The Two Holy Cities\"). This title was used by all subsequent Ottoman Caliph Sultans until Mehmed VI (1861–1926), the last.\n\nThe first King of Saudi Arabia to assume the title was Faisal bin Abdul Aziz (1906–1975). His successor Khalid did not use the title, but the latter's successor Fahd did, replacing the term \"His Majesty\" with it. The current king, Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, took the same title after the death of King Abdullah, his half brother, on 23 January 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "43528782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43528782", "title": "David Laurent de Lara", "text": "David Laurent de Lara\n\nDavid Laurent de Lara (c.1806, Amsterdam - 1876) was a London-based, Dutch-born limner of Spanish descent. He has been described as a pioneer who helped illumination to become recognised as an artform in its own right at a time when very few had ready access to the original illuminated manuscripts or to fine quality reproductions. His illuminated Hebrew calendar and almanac, and a portrait of Hananel De Castro, 1840-1 president of the Board of Deputies of British Jews, led to his being greatly admired among London's Jewish community. He exhibited a custom-designed illuminated chess table for the Queen and Prince Albert at The Great Exhibition of 1851.\n\nLaurent de Lara published \"Elementary instruction in the Art of Illumination, and Missal Painting on Vellum\" in 1850, which went to several editions. From the second expanded edition (1857), he described himself on the title page as illuminating artist to Queen Victoria, though he may simply have supplied teaching materials to the Royal children, if not actually taught them illumination which they were studying from at least 1855. The book consisted of 48 pages, with six illustrations, four coloured, and was published by the firm of Ackermann, who specialised in such instructive books and also sold the papers, designs and pigments called for in order to follow the instructions within. In the book, Laurent de Lara described Henry Noel Humphreys's \"Illuminated Books of the Middle Ages\" as too advanced for a beginner, and did not mention Humphreys' 1856 book \"The Art of Illumination and Missal Painting\", which Alice H. R. H. Beckwith points out was the first manual for illuminators, although aimed at professionals rather than to the amateurs targeted by Laurent de Lara.\nBeckwith has argued that while Laurent de Lara was a good self-promoter, he was not skilled at his art, and suggests that it was him who J. Willis Brooks called an \"unprincipled adventurer\" who exploited impoverished female illuminators. In 1857 Laurent de Lara had established the Illuminating Art Society. Its first exhibition in 1859, was reviewed by \"The Art Journal\", and \"The Athenaeum\", though any subsequent shows appear to not have been reviewed. Illumination was promoted as an acceptable form of employment for women, enabling highly educated ladies to occupy themselves in an appropriately non-menial way by creating illuminated material for sale. The Illuminating Art Union was supported by an annual subscription of £1/1s from its patronesses, who received an original illumination on vellum made by \"less affluent members\" as a premium. In Brooks's words, this exploited women \"to place their excellent taste and skill, for worse than starvation prices, at the disposal of some unprincipled adventurer, ignorant himself of the very rudiments of the art he professes to teach.\" By 1860, the \"Art Journal\" had changed its mind, and argued that it was not possible for a woman to support herself through illumination.\n\nBeckwith notes that by the 1860s, Laurent de Lara's manual had competition in the form of other, more successfully developed publications by Winsor & Newton, George Rowney & Company, and J. Barnard and Son; and says he failed to grasp the idea that illumination was about an unity between text and ornament. Instead, Laurent de Lara suggested that illumination was about the carefully drawn mechanical repetition of fussy detail.\n\nAccording to his granddaughter, the pianist and composer Adelina de Lara's autobiography, David Laurent de Lara was the son of a Spanish count called Laurent de Lara. David married a London-born Polish Jewish woman, Sarah Cracour.\n"}
{"id": "39090706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39090706", "title": "Dehellenization", "text": "Dehellenization\n\nDehellenization refers to a disillusionment with forms of Greek philosophy that emerged in the Hellenistic Period, and in particular to a rejection of the use of reason. The term was first used in 2006 by Pope Benedict XVI in a speech \"Faith, Reason, and the University: Memories and Reflections,\" to refer to attempts to separate Christianity from Greek philosophical thought. Subsequently, the term figured prominently in Robert R. Reilly's book \"The Closing of the Muslim Mind: How Intellectual Suicide Created the Modern Islamist Crisis\", to refer to what Reilly characterized as \"the religion of Islam's divorce from reason and rationality.\" The extent and significance of dehellenization in both the Christian and Islamic religious traditions continues to be widely disputed.\n\nThe Hellenistic Period begins with the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and ends with the emergence of the Roman Empire. For the purpose of defining dehellenization, the Hellenistic Period is known for the emergence of a number of philosophical theories, including Neoplatonism, Epicureanism, Skepticism, Cynicism, Stoicism, among others. An underlying element common to all of these schools of thought is an emphasis on human rationality and the ability to reason.\n\nPope Benedict XVI argues that several keys ideas in Christian thought reveal the hellenization of Christianity:\n\nAlthough Jesus's followers were reluctant to succumb to the Hellenistic rulers' attempts to force them into Greek \"idolatry\" and customs, the Pope argues that they were nevertheless able to extract the most enriching element of Hellenistic thought, namely that man has not only the ability but also the obligation to think rationally.\n\nThe conquest of Persia and parts of Central Asia by Alexander the Great beginning in 330 BC was accompanied by an extensive dissemination of Greek culture and thought beyond the Mediterranean area. Although Persia was eventually reclaimed by the Persians, Hellenistic influence continued in the area.\n\nAccording to Reilly, most of the fusion of Islamic and Greek philosophy occurred between 660 and 750 AD when the Umayyad dynasty came to possess Sassanid (Persian) and Byzantine territories that were heavily populated by Greco-Christians and contained many Hellenistic centers of learning. Initially attracted to Greek thought for medicinal and mathematic purposes, many Muslims began to explore other aspects of Hellenism, in particular philosophy.\n\nAccording to Reilly, the primary cause of the dehellenization of Islam was the rise of the Ash'arite sect and decline of the Mu'tazila sect in the ninth and tenth centuries. The Mu’tazalites adopted the belief that man must be free, because without freedom, he would be unable to know God’s justice. Consequently, man was free and obligated to interpret sacred texts in the context of his time. The Mu’tazalite premise that the Qur'an was \"created\" implies that it is subject to reason, in contradiction to the orthodox belief that the Qur'an is eternal.\n\nThe Mu’tazalites produced the first Greek-inspired Islamic school of thought, championing the idea of reason and rational morality. The Ash'arites evolved as a group in direct opposition to the Mu’tazalites. The Ash'arites opposed the Mu'tazalites on several levels. They argued that the Qur'an was coeternal with Allah, rendering it inalterable and uninterpretable by man. Whereas the Mu’tazalites held that God was reasonably required to reward and punish as he had promised, the Ash'arites argued that God is not required to do anything, since such requirements must necessarily limit him. Ash'arites insisted that any apparent inconsistencies in the Qur'an must not be questioned. In contrast, the Mu'tazalites believed that analyzing these inconsistencies is in accordance with man's necessity to reason: since God is not intuitive or physical, we must reason to his existence.\n\nUnder the reign of Caliph Ja'afar al-Mutawakkil (847–861), adopting the doctrine of the Mu'tazalites became a crime punishable by death. Most of Mu’tazalite works were destroyed and bookstores were told not to sell any of their works. By the 12th century, Mu'tazalite influence had been almost entirely eradicated from Islamic society. This suppression of rationalist thought and elevation of orthodoxy signaled the general dehellenization of Islamic society.\n\nPope Benedict XVI proposes that a dehellenization of Christianity has stemmed from three different sources. The first stage of Christian dehellenization can be attributed to the Reformation in the sixteenth century. Reformers believed that faith had turned into a mere element in abstract philosophy, and that the religion needed to return to the idea of \"sola scriptura\" (scripture only).\n\nThe second stage occurred in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries due to the theology of Adolf von Harnack. Harnack advocated focusing on the simple life of Jesus Christ, and his humanitarian message in particular. Theology and belief in a divine being, according to Harnack, was a scientific history completely separate from the modern reason of humanitarian aid.\n\nThe last stage, occurring currently in the twenty-first century, is a product of modern cultural pluralism. Cultural pluralism encourages other cultures to simply return to the simplicity of the New Testament, and refuse it with their own culture. The Pope affirms that such a method cannot work because the New Testament \"was written in Greek and bears the imprint of the Greek spirit.\"\n\nReilly asserts that at least 80% of Sunni Muslims have adopted the Ash'arite school of thought. The current prominence of this school throughout the Umma (global Muslim community), according to Reilly, is manifested in the writings of the key Islamist leaders of the past century. Sayyid Qutb's \"Milestones\", for instance, has been such an imperative document that its authority approaches that of a hadith. A divorce from reason or the ability to rationalize can be made apparent via the following excerpts:\n\n\"But if we are to walk in the footsteps of the first generation of Muslims, through whom God established His system and gave it victory over Jahiliyyah, then we will not be masters of our own wills.\"\n\n\"The basis of the message is that one should accept the Shari’ah without any question and reject all other laws in any shape or form. This is Islam. There is no other meaning of Islam.\"\n\n\"The question may be asked, \"Is not the good of mankind the criterion for solving actual problems?\" But again we will raise the question which Islam raises itself, and which it answers; that is, \"Do you know better, or God?\" and, \"God knows, and you do not know.\"\n\nReilly accepts that any Muslims who align themselves with the Mu'tazalite school have not been dehellenized, and may value and employ human reason the same as any other individual.\n\nWithin the Muslim community, this presents the difficulty of hindering innovation. Because every occurrence in life is an intentional act of the will of Allah, general scientific or mathematic principles are slow to be accepted—if accepted at all—by many.\n\nFor instance, when a ball is dropped and it falls to the ground X amount of times in a row, Western society accepts a principle of gravity. Muslim society rejects this principle because they believe that each time the ball dropped (no matter how many times) it was a product of the direct will of Allah. If Allah wishes, on drop X+1, the ball will go sideways or turn into a foreign object. Reilly suspects that the Middle East's lack of scientific and technologic innovation stems directly from this prospect.\n\nAt a policy level, Reilly proposes that the U.S. cannot fix the problems in the Arab world via politic or economic means because they are not politic and economic issues; they are theologic at heart. Until the religion of Islam re-adopts reason, Reilly accepts that they will be impossible to deal with on a diplomatic level.\n\nGriffel (2011) in his review describes the book as \"war literature\", and \"a Catholic refutation of Ash'arite Muslim theology\", complaining that Reilly constructs an undue equation between Ash'arism and contemporary Jihadism, while most Jihadists in fact follow Salafism and are hostile towards Ash'arism.\n\n"}
{"id": "15398943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15398943", "title": "Dumuzid", "text": "Dumuzid\n\nDumuzid, later known by the alternate form Tammuz, is an ancient Mesopotamian god associated with shepherds, who was also the primary consort of the goddess Inanna (later known as Ishtar). In Sumerian mythology, Dumuzid's sister was Geshtinanna, the goddess of vegetation. In the Sumerian King List, Dumuzid is listed as an antediluvian king of the city of Bad-tibira and also an early king of the city of Uruk. In the Sumerian poem \"Inanna Prefers the Farmer\", Dumuzid competes against the farmer Enkimdu for Inanna's hand in marriage. In \"Inanna's Descent into the Underworld\", Dumuzid fails to mourn Inanna's death and, when she returns from the Underworld, she allows the \"galla\" demons to drag him down to the Underworld as her replacement. Inanna later regrets this decision and decrees that Dumuzid will spend half the year in the Underworld, but the other half of the year with her, while his sister Geshtinanna stays in the Underworld in his place, thus resulting in the cycle of the seasons.\n\nGilgamesh references Tammuz in Tablet VI of the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" as one of Ishtar's past lovers, who was turned into an \"allalu\" bird with a broken wing. Dumuzid was associated with fertility and vegetation and the hot, dry summers of Mesopotamia were believed to be caused by Dumuzid's yearly death. During the month in midsummer bearing his name, people all across Mesopotamia would engage in public, ritual mourning for him. During the late twentieth century, scholars widely thought that, during the Sumerian Akitu festival, kings may have established their legitimacy by taking on the role of Dumuzid and engaging in ritualized sexual intercourse with the high priestess of Inanna as part of a sacred marriage ceremony. This notion is now generally rejected by scholars as a misinterpretation of Sumerian literary texts. The cult of Dumuzid was later spread to the Levant and to Greece, where he became known under the West Semitic name Adonis.\n\nThe cult of Ishtar and Tammuz continued to thrive until the eleventh century AD and survived in parts of Mesopotamia as late as the eighteenth century. Tammuz is mentioned by name in the Book of Ezekiel and possibly alluded to in other passages from the Hebrew Bible. In late nineteenth and early twentieth century scholarship of religion, Tammuz was widely seen as a prime example of the archetypal dying-and-rising god, but the discovery of the full Sumerian text of \"Inanna's Descent\" in the mid-twentieth century disproved the previous scholarly assumption that the narrative ended with Dumuzid's resurrection and instead revealed that it ended with Dumuzid's death. The existence of the \"dying-and-rising god\" archetype has been largely rejected by modern scholars. \n\nThe Assyriologists Jeremy Black and Anthony Green describe the early history of Dumuzid's cult as \"complex and bewildering\". According to the Sumerian King List (ETCSL 2.1.1), Dumuzid was the fifth antediluvian king of the city of Bad-tibira. Dumuzid was also listed as an early king of Uruk, where he was said to have come from the nearby village of Kuara and to have been the consort of the goddess Inanna. As \"Dumuzid sipad\" (\"Dumuzid the Shepherd\"), Dumuzid was believed to be the provider of milk, which was a rare, seasonal commodity in ancient Sumer due to the fact that it could not easily be stored without spoiling.\n\nIn addition to being the god of shepherds, Dumuzid was also an agricultural deity associated with the growth of plants. Ancient Near Eastern peoples associated Dumuzid with the springtime, when the land was fertile and abundant, but, during the summer months, when the land was dry and barren, it was thought that Dumuzid had \"died\". During the month of Dumuzid, which fell in the middle of summer, people all across Sumer would mourn over his death. This seems to have been the primary aspect of his cult. In Lagash, the month of Dumuzid was the sixth month of the year. This month and the holiday associated with it was later transmitted from the Sumerians to Babylonians and other East Semitic peoples, with its name transcribed into those languages as \"Tammuz\". A ritual associated with the Ekur temple in Nippur equates Dumuzid with the snake-god Ištaran, who in that ritual, is described as having died.\n\nDumuzid was also identified with the god Ama-ušumgal-ana, who was originally a local god worshipped in the city of Lagash. In some texts, Ama-ušumgal-ana is described as a heroic warrior. As Ama-ušumgal-ana, Dumuzid is associated with the date palm and its fruits. This aspect of Dumuzid's cult was always joyful in character and had no associations with the darker stories involving his death. To ancient Mesopotamian peoples, the date palm represented stability, because it was one of the few crops that could be harvested all year, even during the dry season. In some Sumerian poems, Dumuzid is referred to as \"my Damu\", which means \"my son\". This name is usually applied to him in his role as the personification of the power that causes the sap to rise in trees and plants. Damu is the name most closely associated with Dumuzid's return in autumn after the dry season has ended. This aspect of his cult emphasized the fear and exhaustion of the community after surviving the devastating summer.\n\nDumuzid had virtually no power outside of his distinct realm of responsibilities. Very few prayers addressed to him are extant and, of those that are, almost all of them are simply requests for him to provide more milk, more grain, more cattle, etc. The sole exception to this rule is a single Assyrian inscription in which a man requests Tammuz that, when he descends to the Underworld, he should take with him a troublesome ghost who has been haunting him. The cult of Tammuz was particularly associated with women, who were the ones responsible for mourning his death. The custom of planting miniature gardens with fast-growing plants such as lettuce and fennel, which would then be placed out in the hot sun to sprout before withering in the heat, was a well-attested custom in ancient Greece associated with the festival of Adonia in honor of Adonis, the Greek version of Tammuz; some scholars have argued based on references in the Hebrew Bible that this custom may have been a continuation of an earlier oriental practice. The same women who mourned the death of Tammuz also prepared cakes for his consort Ishtar, the Queen of Heaven. These cakes would be baked in ashes and several clay cake molds discovered at Mari, Syria reveal that they were also at least sometimes shaped like naked women.\n\nAccording to the early scholar Samuel Noah Kramer, towards the end of the third millennium BC, kings of Uruk may have established their legitimacy by taking on the role of Dumuzid as part of a \"sacred marriage\" ceremony. This ritual lasted for one night on the tenth day of the Akitu, the Sumerian new year festival, which was celebrated annually at the spring equinox. As part of the ritual, it was thought that the king would engage in ritualized sexual intercourse with the high priestess of Inanna, who took on the role of the goddess. In the late twentieth century, the historicity of the sacred marriage ritual was treated by scholars as more-or-less an established fact, but, in the early 2000s, largely due to the writings of Pirjo Lapinkivi, many scholars began to reject the notion of an actual sex ritual, instead seeing \"sacred marriage\" as a symbolic rather than a physical union.\n\nThe poem \"Inanna Prefers the Farmer\" (ETCSL 4.0.8.3.3) begins with a rather playful conversation between Inanna and her brother Utu, who incrementally reveals to her that it is time for her to marry. Dumuzid comes to court her, along with a farmer named Enkimdu. At first, Inanna prefers the farmer, but Utu and Dumuzid gradually persuade her that Dumuzid is the better choice for a husband, arguing that, for every gift the farmer can give to her, the shepherd can give her something even better. In the end, Inanna marries Dumuzid. The shepherd and the farmer reconcile their differences, offering each other gifts. Samuel Noah Kramer compares the myth to the Biblical story of Cain and Abel because both myths center around a farmer and a shepherd competing for divine favor and, in both stories, the deity in question ultimately chooses the shepherd.\n\nA vast number of erotic love poems celebrating the consummation of Inanna and Dumuzid have survived. Two excerpts from a representative example are translated below:\n\nTowards the end of the epic poem \"Inanna's Descent into the Underworld\" (ETCSL 1.4.1), Dumuzid's wife Inanna escapes from the Underworld, but is pursued by a horde of \"galla\" demons, who insist that someone else must take her place in the Underworld. They first come upon Inanna's \"sukkal\" Ninshubur and attempt to take her, but Inanna stops them, insisting that Ninshubur is her loyal servant and that she had rightfully mourned for her while she was in the Underworld. They next come upon Shara, Inanna's beautician, who is still in mourning. The demons attempt to take him, but Inanna insists that they may not, because he had also mourned for her. The third person they come upon is Lulal, who is also in mourning. The demons try to take him, but Inanna stops them once again. Finally, they come upon Dumuzid, who is lavishly clothed and resting beneath a tree, or sitting on Inanna's throne, entertained by slave-girls. Inanna, displeased, decrees that the demons shall take him, using language which echoes the speech Ereshkigal gave while condemning her. The demons then drag Dumuzid down to the Underworld.\n\nThe Sumerian poem \"The Dream of Dumuzid\" (ETCSL 1.4.3) begins with Dumuzid telling Geshtinanna about a frightening dream he has experienced. Then the \"galla\" demons arrive to drag Dumuzid down into the Underworld as Inanna's replacement. Dumuzid flees and hides. The \"galla\" demons brutally torture Geshtinanna in an attempt to force her to tell them where Dumuzid is hiding. Geshtinanna, however, refuses to tell them where her brother has gone. The \"galla\" go to Dumuzid's unnamed \"friend\", who betrays Dumuzid, telling the \"galla\" exactly where Dumuzid is hiding. The \"galla\" capture Dumuzid, but Utu, the god of the Sun, who is also Inanna's brother, rescues Dumuzid by transforming him into a gazelle. Eventually, the \"galla\" recapture Dumuzid and drag him down into the Underworld.\n\nIn the Sumerian poem \"The Return of Dumuzid\", which begins where \"The Dream of Dumuzid\" ends, Geshtinanna laments continually for days and nights over Dumuzid's death, joined by Inanna, who has apparently experienced a change of heart, and Sirtur, Dumuzid's mother. The three goddesses mourn continually until a fly reveals to Inanna the location of her husband. Together, Inanna and Geshtinanna go to the place where the fly has told them they will find Dumuzid. They find him there and Inanna decrees that, from that point onwards, Dumuzid will spend half of the year with her sister Ereshkigal in the Underworld and the other half of the year in Heaven with her, while Geshtinanna takes his place in the Underworld.\n\nOther texts describe different and contradictory accounts of Dumuzid's death. The text of the poem \"Inanna and Bilulu\" (ETCSL 1.4.4), discovered at Nippur, is badly mutilated and scholars have interpreted it in a number of different ways. The beginning of the poem is mostly destroyed, but seems to be a lament. The intelligible part of the poem describes Inanna pining after her husband Dumuzid, who is in the steppe watching his flocks. Inanna sets out to find him. After this, a large portion of the text is missing. When the story resumes, Inanna is being told that Dumuzid has been murdered. Inanna discovers that the old bandit woman Bilulu and her son Girgire are responsible. She travels along the road to Edenlila and stops at an inn, where she finds the two murderers. Inanna stands on top of a stool and transforms Bilulu into \"the waterskin that men carry in the desert\", forcing her to pour the funerary libations for Dumuzid.\n\n\"Dumuzid and Geshtinanna\" begins with demons encouraging Inanna to conquer the Underworld. Instead, she hands Dumuzid over to them. They put Dumuzid's feet, hands, and neck in the stocks and torture him using hot pokers. They strip him naked, do \"evil\" to him, and cover his face with his own garment. Finally, Dumuzid prays to Utu for help. Utu transforms Dumuzid into a creature that is part eagle and part snake, allowing him to escape back to Geshtinanna. In the text known as \"The Most Bitter Cry\", Dumuzid is chased by the \"seven evil deputies of the netherworld\" and, as he is running, he falls into a river. Near an apple tree on the other bank, he is dragged into the Underworld, where everything simultaneously \"exists\" and \"does not exist\", perhaps indicating that they exist in insubstantial or immaterial forms.\n\nA collection of lamentations for Dumuzid entitled \"In the Desert by the Early Grass\" describes Damu, the \"dead anointed one\", being dragged down to the Underworld by demons, who blindfold him, tie him up, and forbid him from sleeping. Damu's mother tries to follow him into the Underworld, but Damu is now a disembodied spirit, \"lying in\" the winds, \"in the lightnings and in tornadoes\". Damu's mother is also unable to eat the food or drink the water in the Underworld, because it is \"bad\". Damu travels along the road of the Underworld and encounters various spirits. He meets the ghost of a small child, who tells him that it is lost; the ghost of a singer agrees to accompany the child. Damu asks the spirits to send a message to his mother, but they cannot because they are dead and the living cannot hear the dead's voices. Damu, however, manages to tell his mother to dig up his blood and chop it into pieces. Damu's mother gives the congealed blood to Damu's sister Amashilama, who is a leech. Amashilama mixes the congealed blood into a brew of beer, which Damu must drink in order to be restored to life. Damu, however, realizes that he is dead and declares that he is not in the \"grass which shall grow for his mother again\", nor in the \"waters which will rise\". Damu's mother blesses him and Amashilama dies to join him in the Underworld. She tells him that \"the day that dawns for you will also dawn for me; the day you see, I shall also see\", referring to the fact that day in the world above is night in the Underworld.\n\nIn the myth of Adapa, Dumuzid and Ningishzida are the two doorkeepers of Anu, the god of the heavens, who speak out in favor of Adapa, the priest of Ea, as he stands trial before Anu. In Tablet VI of the standard Akkadian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", Ishtar (Inanna) attempts to seduce the hero Gilgamesh, but he rebuffs her, reminding her that she had struck Tammuz (Dumuzid), \"the lover of [her] youth\", decreeing that he should \"keep weeping year after year\". Gilgamesh describes Tammuz as a colorful \"allalu\" bird (possibly a European or Indian roller), whose wing has been broken and now spends all his time \"in the woods crying 'My wing!'\" (Tablet VI, section ii, lines 11-15). Gilgamesh may be referring to an alternative account of Dumuzid's death, different from the ones recorded in extant texts.\n\nAnton Moortgat has interpreted Dumuzid as the antithesis of Gilgamesh: Gilgamesh refuses Ishtar's demand for him to become her lover, seeks immortality, and fails to find it; Dumuzid, by contrast, accepts Ishtar's offer and, as a result of her love, is able to spend half the year in Heaven, even though he is condemned to the Underworld for the other half. Mehmet-Ali Ataç further argues that the \"Tammuz model\" of immortality was far more prevalent in the ancient Near East than the \"Gilgamesh model\". In a chart of antediluvian generations in Babylonian and Biblical traditions, William Wolfgang Hallo associates Dumuzid with the composite half-man, half-fish counselor or culture hero (Apkallu) An-Enlilda, and suggests an equivalence between Dumuzid and Enoch in the Sethite Genealogy given in Genesis chapter 5.\n\nThe cult of Ishtar and Tammuz may have been introduced to the Kingdom of Judah during the reign of King Manasseh and the Old Testament contains numerous allusions to them. mentions Tammuz by name: \"Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the Lord's house which was toward the north; and, behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz. Then said he unto to me, 'Hast thou seen this, O son of man? turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abominations than these.\"\n\nEzekiel's testimony is the only direct mention of Tammuz in the Hebrew Bible, but the cult of Tammuz may also be alluded to in :\"Because thou hast forgotten the God of thy salvation, and hast not been mindful of the rock of thy strength, therefore shalt thou plant pleasant plants, and shalt set it with strange slips: In the day shalt thou make thy plant to grow, and in the morning shalt thou make thy seed to flourish: but the harvest shall be a heap in the day of grief and of desperate sorrow.\" This passage may be describing the miniature gardens that women would plant in honor of Tammuz during his festival. , , and all denounce sacrifices made \"in the gardens\", which may also be connected to the cult of Tammuz. Another possible allusion to Tammuz occurs in : \"Neither shall he regard the God of his fathers, nor the desire of women, nor regard any god: for he shall magnify himself above all.\" The subject of this passage is Antiochus IV Epiphanes and some scholars have interpreted the reference to the \"one desired by women\" in this passage as an indication that Antiochus may have persecuted the cult of Tammuz. There is no external evidence to support this reading, however, and it is much more probable that this epithet is merely a jibe at Antiochus's notorious cruelty towards all the women who fell in love with him.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible also contains references to Tammuz's consort Inanna-Ishtar. and mention \"the Queen of Heaven\", who is probably a syncretism of Inanna-Ishtar and the West Semitic goddess Astarte. The Song of Songs bears strong similarities to the Sumerian love poems involving Inanna and Dumuzid, particularly in its usage of natural symbolism to represent the lovers' physicality. (\"Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners?\") is almost certainly a reference to Inanna-Ishtar.\n\nThe myth of Inanna and Dumuzid later became the basis for the Greek myth of Aphrodite and Adonis. The Greek name (\"Adōnis\", ) is derived from the Canaanite word \"ʼadōn\", meaning \"lord\". The earliest known Greek reference to Adonis comes from a fragment of a poem by the Lesbian poetess Sappho, dating to the seventh century BC, in which a chorus of young girls asks Aphrodite what they can do to mourn Adonis's death. Aphrodite replies that they must beat their breasts and tear their tunics. Later rescensions of the Adonis legend reveal that he was believed to have been slain by a wild boar during a hunting trip. According to Lucian's \"De Dea Syria\", each year during the festival of Adonis, the Adonis River in Lebanon (now known as the Abraham River) ran red with blood.\n\nIn Greece, the myth of Adonis was associated with the festival of the Adonia, which was celebrated by Greek women every year in midsummer. The festival, which was evidently already celebrated in Lesbos by Sappho's time, seems to have first become popular in Athens in the mid-fifth century BC. At the start of the festival, the women would plant a \"garden of Adonis\", a small garden planted inside a small basket or a shallow piece of broken pottery containing a variety of quick-growing plants, such as lettuce and fennel, or even quick-sprouting grains such as wheat and barley. The women would then climb ladders to the roofs of their houses, where they would place the gardens out under the heat of the summer sun. The plants would sprout in the sunlight, but wither quickly in the heat. Then the women would mourn and lament loudly over the death of Adonis, tearing their clothes and beating their breasts in a public display of grief. The third century BC poet Euphorion of Chalcis remarked in his \"Hyacinth\" that \"Only Cocytus washed the wounds of Adonis\".\n\nTraditional Mesopotamian religion began to gradually decline between the third and fifth centuries AD as ethnic Assyrians converted to Christianity. Nonetheless, the cult of Ishtar and Tammuz managed to survive in parts of Upper Mesopotamia. The Church Father Jerome records in a letter dated to the year 395 AD that \"Bethlehem... belonging now to us... was overshadowed by a grove of Tammuz, that is to say, Adonis, and in the cave where once the infant Christ cried, the lover of Venus was lamented.\" This same cave later became the site of the Church of the Nativity. The church historian Eusebius, however, does not mention pagans having ever worshipped in the cave, nor do any other early Christian writers. Peter Welten has argued that the cave was never dedicated to Tammuz and that Jerome misinterpreted Christian mourning over the Massacre of the Innocents as a pagan ritual over Tammuz's death. Joan E. Taylor has countered this contention by arguing that Jerome, as an educated man, could not have been so naïve as to mistake Christian mourning over the Massacre of the Innocents as a pagan ritual for Tammuz.\n\nDuring the sixth century AD, some early Christians in the Middle East borrowed elements from poems of Ishtar mourning over the death of Tammuz into their own retellings of the Virgin Mary mourning over the death of her son Jesus. The Syrian writers Jacob of Serugh and Romanos the Melodist both wrote laments in which the Virgin Mary describes her compassion for her son at the foot of the cross in deeply personal terms closely resembling Ishtar's laments over the death of Tammuz.\n\nTammuz is the month of July in Iraqi Arabic and Levantine Arabic (see Arabic names of calendar months), as well as in the Assyrian calendar and Jewish calendar, and references to Tammuz appear in Arabic literature from the 9th to 11th centuries AD. In what purports to be a translation of an ancient Nabataean (here meaning Aramaean) text by Qūthāmā the Babylonian, Ibn Wahshiyya (c. 9th-10th century AD), adds information on his own efforts to ascertain the identity of Tammuz, and his discovery of the full details of the legend of Tammuz in another Nabataean book: \"How he summoned the king to worship the seven (planets) and the twelve (signs) and how the king put him to death several times in a cruel manner Tammuz coming to life again after each time, until at last he died; and behold! it was identical to the legend of St. George.\" Ibn Wahshiyya also adds that Tammuz lived in Babylonia before the coming of the Chaldeans and belonged to an ancient Mesopotamian tribe called Ganbân. On rituals related to Tammuz in his time, he adds that the Sabaeans in Harran and Babylonia still lamented the loss of Tammuz every July, but that the origin of the worship had been lost.\n\nIn the tenth century AD, the Arab traveler Al-Nadim wrote in his \"Kitab al-Fehrest\" that \"All the Sabaeans of our time, those of Babylonia as well as those of Harran, lament and weep to this day over Tammuz at a festival which they, more particularly the women, hold in the month of the same name.\" Drawing from a work on Syriac calendar feast days, Al-Nadim describes a Tâ'ûz festival that took place in the middle of the month of Tammuz. Women bewailed the death of Tammuz at the hands of his master who was said to have \"ground his bones in a mill and scattered them to the wind.\" Consequently, women would forgo the eating of ground foods during the festival time. The same festival is mentioned in the eleventh century by Ibn Athir, who recounts that it still took place every year at the appointed time along the banks of the Tigris river. The cult of Ishtar and Tammuz still existed in Mardin as late as the eighteenth century. \"Tammuz\" is still the name for the month of July in Iraqi Arabic.\n\nThe late nineteenth-century Scottish anthropologist Sir James George Frazer wrote extensively about Tammuz in his monumental study of comparative religion \"The Golden Bough\" (the first edition of which was published in 1890) as well as in later works. Frazer claimed that Tammuz was just one example of the archetype of a \"dying-and-rising god\" found throughout all cultures. Frazer's main intention was to prove that all religions were fundamentally the same and that all the essential features of Christianity could be found in earlier religions. Frazer's arguments were criticized as sloppy and amateurish from the beginning, but his claims became widely influential in late nineteenth and early twentieth century scholarship of religion.\n\nTammuz's categorization as a \"dying-and-rising god\" was based on the abbreviated Akkadian redaction of \"Inanna's Descent into the Underworld\", which was missing the ending. Since numerous lamentations over the death of Dumuzid had already been translated, scholars filled in the missing ending by assuming that the reason for Ishtar's descent was because she was going to resurrect Dumuzid and that the text could therefore be assumed to end with Tammuz's resurrection. Then, in the middle of the twentieth century, the complete, unabridged, original Sumerian text of \"Inanna's Descent\" was finally translated, revealing that, instead of ending with Dumuzid's resurrection as had long been assumed, the text actually ended with Dumuzid's \"death\". The discovery of the \"Return of Dumuzid\" in 1963 briefly revived hopes that Dumuzid might once again be able to be categorized as a \"dying-and-rising god\", but the text ultimately proved disappointing in this regard because it does not describe a triumph over death (as would be necessary for a true Frazerian \"resurrection myth\") and instead does precisely the opposite and affirms the \"inalterable power of the realm of the dead\" by the fact that Dumuzid can only leave the Underworld when his sister takes his place. Frazer and others also saw Tammuz's Greek equivalent Adonis as a \"dying-and-rising god\", despite the fact that he is never described as rising from the dead in any extant Graeco-Roman writings and the only possible allusions to his supposed resurrection come from late, highly ambiguous statements made by Christian authors.\n\nAround the same time that the notion of Tammuz as a \"dying-and-rising god\" became discredited, scholars began to severely criticize the designation of \"dying-and-rising god\" altogether. In 1987, Jonathan Z. Smith concluded in Mircea Eliade's \"Encyclopedia of Religion\" that \"The category of dying and rising gods, once a major topic of scholarly investigation, must now be understood to have been largely a misnomer based on imaginative reconstructions and exceedingly late or highly ambiguous texts.\" He further argued that the deities previously referred to as \"dying-and-rising\" would be better termed separately as \"dying gods\" and \"disappearing gods\", asserting that before Christianity, the two categories were distinct and gods who \"died\" did not return, and those who returned never truly \"died\". By the end of the twentieth century, most scholars had come to agree that the notion of a \"dying-and-rising god\" was an invention and that the term was not a useful scholarly designation.\n\nThe references to the cult of Tammuz preserved in the Bible and in Greco-Roman literature brought the story to the attention of western European writers. The story was popular in Early Modern England and appeared in a variety of works, including Sir Walter Raleigh's \"History of the World\" (1614), George Sandys's \"Dictionarium Relation of a Journey\"(1615), and Charles Stephanus's \"Dictionarium Historicam\" (1553). These have all been suggested as sources for Tammuz's most famous appearance in English literature as a demon in Book I of John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\", lines 446-457:\n\nTHAMMUZ came next behind, <br>\nWhose annual wound in LEBANON allur'd <br>\nThe SYRIAN Damsels to lament his fate <br>\nIn amorous dittyes all a Summers day, <br>\nWhile smooth ADONIS from his native Rock <br>\nRan purple to the Sea, suppos'd with blood <br>\nOf THAMMUZ yearly wounded: the Love-tale <br>\nInfected SION'S daughters with like heat, <br>\nWhose wanton passions in the sacred Porch <br>\nEZEKIEL saw, when by the Vision led <br>\nHis eye survey'd the dark Idolatries <br>\nOf alienated JUDAH.\n\nAnd then each pigeon spread its milky van, <br>\nThe bright car soared into the dawning sky <br>\nAnd like a cloud the aerial caravan <br>\nPassed over the Ægean silently, <br>\nTill the faint air was troubled with the song <br>\nFrom the wan mouths that call on bleeding Thammuz all night long\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14999294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14999294", "title": "Fernando Suarez", "text": "Fernando Suarez\n\nFather Fernando Suarez (born February 7, 1967) is a Filipino Catholic priest who performs faith healing in the Philippines and elsewhere.\n\nMMP is a non-profit, tax exempt charitable organization of Catholic religious and lay persons in the US, Canada and the Philippines, founded by Suarez and Father Jeff Shannon.\n\nOn January 11, 2008, Manila Cardinal Archbishop Gaudencio Rosales officiated the celebration of the Mass which started the three-day, 40-hour vigil at Suarez' Batangas City Montemaria mega-shrine. Hundreds of devotees and the sick gathered.\n\nSuarez, 44, announced his return to and resumption of his alleged healing in the Philippines on May, 2008.\n\nOn January 26, 2008, 2 died and 7 were rushed (due to exhaustion) to James Gordon Hospital, Olongapo City while waiting for Suarez' healing Mass. Juanito Eleazar, 69, died of a heart attack amid more than 15,000 worshippers having lined up.\n\n"}
{"id": "50363932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50363932", "title": "Goranchacha", "text": "Goranchacha\n\nGoranchacha was a mythical \"cacique\" who was said to have been the prophet of the Muisca of South America, in particular of the \"zacazgo\" of the northern Muisca Confederation. He is considered the son of the Sun, impersonated by the Sun god Sué.\n\nIn the centuries before the arrival of the Spanish conquistadores the central highlands of Colombia were ruled by \"zaques\" (northern Muisca Confederation) and \"zipas\" (southern territories). The Muisca had two main deities; Sué, the Sun, and his wife Chía, the goddess of the Moon.\n\nAccording to the Muisca legends, the Sun wanted to reincarnate in human form and performed this via a maid of the village of Guachetá. The maid stayed a virgin because she gave birth after receiving rays of sunlight. This miracle became known in the village and the whole region around it. Upon this curious event, every day the daughters of the \"cacique\" of Guachetá left their \"bohíos\" (the Muisca houses) and climbed a hill to see the sun rising in the east.\n\nThey laid down naked under the Sun, waiting to be inseminated by the sunbeams. One of them became pregnant and after nine months bore a very large and pure emerald. The daughter of the \"cacique\" took the emerald and wrapped it in cloths to wear it between her breasts during a couple of days. Finally the emerald converted into a boy, who they named Goranchacha, son of the Sun.\n\nOn his 24th birthday, the son of the Sun decided to travel across the Muisca territories preaching the wise lessons of the messenger god and educator Bochica, which made him a prophet. In Ramiriquí, Sugamuxi, sacred city of the Sun, and in other villages Goranchacha was received as religious leader. When the leader of Ramiriquí, then capital of the northern Muisca, hurt one of his lovers, Goranchacha returned from his travels to the village, killed the leader and took over the throne. He selected a group of servants to his power. One of them was the town crier, an Indian with a long tail, who became the second-in-command of the city.\n\nGoranchacha's rule was harsh and executed fierce punishments for small offenses. He moved the capital of the northern Muisca from Ramiriquí to Hunza where he became a real dictator. The people feared him and his punishments that consisted of tortures with prickly pear cactus leaves and after that severe beatings. According to chronicler Pedro Simón, Goranchacha did not want the people to talk to him and they were not allowed to look him in the face, as that was a sign of disrespect for his rule.\n\nLike was present in Sugamuxi, Goranchacha ordered the construction of another Sun Temple in Hunza. For that he demanded materials would be brought from the farthest regions of his reign. On the location where the temple allegedly was constructed is currently the seat of the \"Universidad Pedagógica y Tecnológica de Colombia\" in Tunja. He used the temple to worship his father, the Sun and held parties in the temple often with human sacrifices. Goranchacha organised processions from other areas to the temple that took nine days, so three weeks; three days (1 week) of marching, one week of praying and one week of marching back. He ordered there would be giant columns of rock erected in front of the temple and the stones needed to be transported by the people at night (Chibcha: \"zasca\"). The columns were built in as phallic symbols.\n\nGoranchacha's assistant, the Indian with a tail like a jaguar, helped him with all the activities. One day they gathered all the people ruled from Hunza and Goranchacha prophesied that one day strong and ferocious men would come who would make the people slaves, abuse them and make them work for them [the Spanish conquistadores]. Goranchacha told his people he would leave and return after a few years to see them again. He left but never returned. The jaguar-tailed Indian also left; he turned into smoke.\n\n"}
{"id": "5844390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5844390", "title": "Hakhshara", "text": "Hakhshara\n\nHakhshara (; also transliterated Hakhsharah, Hachshara or Hakhsharah) is a Hebrew word that literally means \"preparation\". The term is used for training programs and agricultural centres in Europe and elsewhere. At these centers Zionist youth would learn technical skills necessary for their emigration to Israel and subsequent life in kibbutzim. Such camps existed before World War II, and still exist today.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26978133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26978133", "title": "Havitta", "text": "Havitta\n\nHavitta is a name used to refer the ancient Buddhist stupas in Maldives. The word \"Haviita\" is believed to have some affinities with the Sanskrit word Caitya used to refer Buddhist sacred places. Some of the famous Havittas in Maldives include Fua Mulaku Havitta and Vādū Havitta.\n"}
{"id": "157955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157955", "title": "Hazzan", "text": "Hazzan\n\nA hazzan (; ) or chazzan ( , plural ; Yiddish \"khazn\"; Ladino \"hassan\") is a Jewish musician or precentor trained in the vocal arts who helps lead the congregation in songful prayer. In English, this prayer leader is often referred to as cantor, a term also used in Christianity.\n\nThe person leading the congregation in public prayers is called the \"sh'liaḥ tzibbur\" (Hebrew for \"emissary of the congregation\"). Jewish law restricts this role to adult Jews. In theory, any lay person can be a \"sh'liaḥ tzibbur\"; most synagogue-attending Jews will serve in this role every now and again. Someone with good Hebrew pronunciation is preferred. In practice, those with the best voice and the most knowledge of the prayers serve most often. As public worship was developed in the Geonic period and as the knowledge of the Hebrew language declined, singing gradually superseded the didactic and hortatory element in the worship in the synagogue. Thus, while the idea of a cantor as a paid professional does not exist in classical rabbinic sources, the office of the \"hazzan\" increased in importance with the centuries, evolving a specialized skill set and becoming a career in itself.\n\nEven in the earliest times the chief qualifications demanded of the \"hazzan\", in addition to knowledge of Biblical and liturgical literature as well as the prayer motifs (known as \"steiger\"), were a pleasant voice and an artistic delivery; for the sake of these, many faults were willingly overlooked. The \"hazzan\" was required to possess a pleasing appearance, to be married, and to have a flowing beard. Sometimes, according to Isaac of Vienna (13th century), a young \"hazzan\" having only a slight growth of beard was tolerated. Maimonides decided that the \"hazzan\" who recited the prayers on an ordinary Sabbath and on weekdays need not possess an appearance pleasing to everybody; he might even have a reputation not wholly spotless, provided he was living a life morally free from reproach at the time of his appointment.\n\nBut all these moderations of the rule disappeared on holidays; then an especially worthy \"hazzan\" was demanded, one whose life was absolutely irreproachable, who was generally popular, and who was endowed with an expressive delivery. Even a person who had ever litigated in a non-Jewish court, instead of a Jewish court, could not act as \"hazzan\" on those days, unless he had previously done penance. However many authorities were lenient in this regard, and as long as a cantor was \"merutzeh l'kehal,\" desired by the congregation, he was permitted to lead the prayers even on the holiest of days.\n\nToday, a \"hazzan\", particularly in more formal (usually not Orthodox) synagogues, is likely to have academic credentials—most often a degree in music or in sacred music, sometimes a degree in music education or in Jewish religious education or a related discipline. The doctor of music degree is sometimes awarded to honour a \"hazzan\".\n\nThe role of \"hazzanim\" as a respected full-time profession has become a reality in recent centuries. In the last two centuries Jews in a number of European communities, notably Germany and Britain, came to view professionally trained \"hazzanim\" as clergy and the \"hazzan\" as the deputy rabbi. After the enlightenment, when European nations gave full citizenship and civil rights to Jews, professionally trained \"hazzanim\" were accepted by the secular governments as clergy in the same way as rabbis.\n\nIn a paradoxical turn of events, the United States government recognized cantors as the first Jewish clergy, even before rabbis were recognized: as a congregation could be organized and led by a committee of Jewish laypersons, who would not have the expertise in liturgy a hazzan would have, newly forming congregations in the late 19th and early 20th centuries sometimes hired a hazzan for a synagogue (and made sure that a kosher butcher was established in the neighborhood) for some time before setting about hiring a rabbi, seeing the hazzan (and the butcher) as a more immediate need. The hazzan therefore solemnized marriages and otherwise represented the congregation in the eyes of civil authorities.\n\nIn the United States, many hazzanim supplement their ministry by also earning certification as and working as mohels, for bris ceremonies.\n\nIn the United States there are three main organizations for professionally trained \"hazzanim\", one from each of the major Jewish denominations:\n\n\nMany members of the Cantors Assembly are trained at the H. L. Miller Cantorial School and College of Jewish Music at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. Many members of the American Conference of Cantors are trained at the Debbie Friedman School of Sacred Music at Hebrew Union College—Jewish Institute of Religion, School of Sacred Music (New York) Reform. Both of these programs offer a five-year training program. Members of the Cantorial Council can train at the Philip and Sarah Belz School of Jewish Music at Yeshiva University in New York City.\n\nALEPH, the movement for Jewish Renewal, includes a cantorial training program as part of its ordination program.\n\nFull cantorial training is also offered by the Cantorial School of the Academy for Jewish Religion (California) in Los Angeles, the Cantorial Program at the similarly named Academy for Jewish Religion in New York, and the School of Jewish Music at Hebrew College. These institutions are unaffiliated with any particular Jewish denomination.\n\nThe curricula for students in these programs generally include, but are not limited to:\nUntil 2012, neither the Reform nor Conservative streams used the term \"ordained\" for trained cantors; saying \"invested\" precluded confusion with those they titled rabbi.. Conservative has stayed with that distinction.\n\nTraditionally a \"hazzan\" was always a man.\n\nToday most streams of non-Orthodox Judaism no longer maintain gender distinctions, hence a woman can fill their cantorial needs. Julie Rosewald, called “Cantor Soprano” by her congregation, was America’s first female cantor (though she was born in Germany), serving San Francisco’s Temple Emanu-El from 1884 until 1893. Barbara Ostfeld became the first female cantor to be ordained in Reform Judaism in 1975, and Erica Lippitz and Marla Rosenfeld Barugel became the first female cantors in Conservative Judaism in 1987. The Cantors Assembly, a professional organization of cantors associated with Conservative Judaism, did not allow women to join until 1990. Sharon Hordes became the first cantor (female or otherwise) in Reconstructionist Judaism in 2002. Avitall Gerstetter, who lived in Germany, became the first female cantor in Jewish Renewal (and the first female cantor in Germany) in 2002. Susan Wehle became the first American female cantor in Jewish Renewal in 2006, serving until her death in 2009. The first American women to be ordained as cantors in Jewish Renewal after Susan Wehle's ordination were Michal Rubin and Abbe Lyons, both ordained on January 10, 2010. In 2001 Deborah Davis became the first cantor (female or otherwise) in Humanistic Judaism; however, Humanistic Judaism has since stopped graduating cantors.\n\nIn 2009 Iran-born Tannoz Bahremand Foruzanfar was ordained as a cantor by the non-denominational<ref>\n"}
{"id": "3204757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3204757", "title": "Holy City, California", "text": "Holy City, California\n\nHoly City is an unincorporated community in Santa Clara County, California. Once considered a Utopian community in the 1920s and 1930s, it is now considered a ghost town. The town is located in the Santa Cruz Mountains, off State Route 17 on Old Santa Cruz Highway. It is part of the Lexington Hills census designated place. Its ZIP code is 95026, and its area codes are 408 and 669.\n\nHoly City was founded in 1919 by cult-leader William E. Riker and about thirty of his followers. Calling his ideology \"The Perfect Christian Divine Way\", Riker preached celibacy, temperance, white supremacy, and segregation of the races and sexes.\n\nRiker bought the that became Holy City. During the early years, the city was the only development between Santa Cruz and San Jose, known for its strange roadside attraction signs. They attracted tourists to a restaurant, service station, zoo, observatory, peep show, soda stand, barbershop, shoe repair. The town was incorporated in 1926.\n\nThe religious community had no church; services were held in Riker's home. By the 1930s the PCDW confirmed disciples probably never numbered more than about 30 people, however the population of Holy City and the surrounding neighborhood peaked at around 300. By 1938, only 75 men and 4 women lived at the site.\n\nA radio station was built in Holy City in 1924 and went on the air on July 7 of that year under the call letters KFQU. In April 1931, KFQU had been operating on a radio wave far from its assigned frequency. The station went off the air in December 1931, and had its license renewal denied on January 11, 1932, due to \"irregularities.\"\n\nThe town began to further decline in population in the 1940s, with the construction of State Route 17. Holy City was no longer on the main route through the mountains. With the end of the Depression, many of Riker's followers were able to find work elsewhere. The town was disincorporated in 1959, and Riker lost control of the property. Several of the buildings mysteriously burned down shortly afterwards.\n\nThe developers who purchased the property eventually put it up for sale in 2006, but it lingered on the market until 2016, when it was bought for $6 million by Robert and Trish Duggan. The Duggans are members of the Church of Scientology. Robert Duggan has been referred to as the church's \"largest financial supporter\" by former Scientology executive Mark Rathbun.\n\nThe Holy City Zoo, a former comedy club in San Francisco, had the sign, table and chairs that all came from the original site of the zoo.\n\n"}
{"id": "54003209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54003209", "title": "Howel Davies", "text": "Howel Davies\n\nHowel Davies (c.1716 – 13 January 1770) was a Welsh Methodist minister. Little is known about his early life, but by 1737 he is known to have been a schoolmaster at Talgarth. There he was converted by Howel Harris, and on his advice went to Llanddowror to study under Griffith Jones. In 1739 he was ordained deacon, and then a priest in 1740. serving initially at the church in Llandilo Abercowin, before moving in 1741 to Llys y Fran, Pembrokeshire. Along with Harris and Jones, he made a major contribution to the spread of Calvinistic Methodism in Pembrokeshire, so much so that he became known as \"the Apostle of Pembrokeshire\".\n\nWhile Davies was preaching at Llechryd and Mounton, there were complaints about his conduct, especially his willingness to offer communion to visitors. In 1744 he married his first wife, Catherine Poyer, a wealthy heiress, and they lived at Parke near Whitland. When she died he married Elizabeth White, and moved to live at her home at Prendergast. Having accompanied Selina Hastings, Countess of Huntingdon, on a tour of Wales, he was invited to preach at her chapels in England, where he made the acquaintance of George Whitefield, who was impressed by his preaching.\n\nHis published works include sermons published by Rhys Thomas of Carmarthen, one under the title 'Llais y Durtur', and another in 1768 under the title 'Llais y Priodfab'.\n"}
{"id": "10901556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10901556", "title": "Khandelwal Vaishya", "text": "Khandelwal Vaishya\n\nKhandelwal Vaishya is a Vaishnava community originally from Khandela, a historical town in northern Rajasthan, India. Khandelwals are mainly present around districts of Jaipur, Sikar, Alwar and Ajmer.\n\nThe Khandelwal community traces its origin and name from Khandela, a town in Sikar district. They believe their name derives from a sage called Khandel, whose 72 sons started the 72 gotras (clans) into which the community is divided. Each clan worships its own \"kuldevi\".\n"}
{"id": "6392251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6392251", "title": "Krishnapura matha", "text": "Krishnapura matha\n\nThe Krishnapur Matha ( कृष्णपुरा मठ \"Kr̥ṣṇāpura maṭha\") or Krishnapur Mutt in some records and literature is a Madhwa Vaishnava monastery. It is one of the Ashta Mathas of Udupi founded by Dvaita philosopher Madhvacharya of Udupi. Krishnapur Monastery is currently headed by Vidyasagara Thirta. The first swami of this monastery was Janardhana Thirta, who was one of the direct disciples of Madhvacharya. Its presiding deity is Kalingamardhana Krishna. The matha houses a Mukyaprana temple inside where puja is performed every day.\n\nThis monastic order has many branches all over India. Some are at Udupi, Ramanakatte, Padigaru, Pejavara, Dandithirtha, Padubidri and others mostly in districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi of Karnataka and one in Prayag (Allahabad).\n\nThe Krishnapur Matha owned last large tracts of land, but lost due to enactment of the law \"Tiller is the owner of Land\" by then Chief minister of Karnataka state Devaraj Urs in 1974.\n\nThe Matha (monastery) at Krishnapur, which is 3 kilometres from Surathkal town is the main Maths from which the name has been derived. The present Matha at Krishnapur was built by Sri Vidyamurthi Teertha who is twenty sixth Swamiji in this lineage built Matha ( monastery at) Krishnapur. There is a Mukhyaprana Hanuman temple inside the Matha. The structure of the building is mostly made of wood. This type of structure is rare in the age of concrete buildings nowadays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54516887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54516887", "title": "Lady's Well, Auchmannoch", "text": "Lady's Well, Auchmannoch\n\nThe Lady's Well is a natural spring surmounted by a large cross that stands beside the Stra Burn Ford (NS254630) near Auchmannoch House in the Parish of Sorn, East Ayrshire, Scotland. It is associated with the Virgin Mary as a curative well, a Wishing Well and also a Clootie well, additionally Mary Queen of Scots is said to have once watered her horse here. A large red sandstone cross was erected here at an unrecorded date. The well is also said to have acquired its name through \"\"..one of the ladies of Auchmannoch family drinking water exclusively from here.\" \n\nIn the 12th century a grant of lands including Auchmannoch was made to the monks of Melrose Abbey by Alan, the High Steward. Early in the 15th century a family of Campbells descended from the Campbells of Loudoun Castle held the lands from the church, a 1565 charter from the Commendator of Melrose shows that Campbell and Margaret Campbell renewed their possession of the 'Lands of Auchmannoch' in 1565 and held them from that point onward until 1919. \n\nAuchmannoch stands on one of the oldest roads in the district, running once from Loudoun Castle via Cessnock Castle to Sorn Castle through Threepwood and Auchencloigh with the Stra Burn Ford and the Lady's Well on the route.\n\nThe Ordnance Survey may contradict the fine detail of the story that Mary Queen of Scots watered her horses here once by stating that the 'Queen's Syke \"..is a Small Stream or marsh forming a Junction with the Stra Burn about 13 chains N [North] east of Coplar. It is handed down by tradition which the Authorities here verify that Mary Queen of Scots with some of her attendants halted at this place on her passage of flight to England.\"\" It is known that the queen stayed in the area after fleeing from the Battle of Langside. \n\nThe substantial red sandstone cross is of an unknown date, almost certainly erected by the Campbells of Auchmannoch in the 19th century. It carries the inscription 'The Lady's Well' in flowing Old English script and also the date 'About AD 1258' representing when the lands were first granted to the Abbey of Melrose or possibly the date of the discovery of the well. Postcards carry the inscription 'Wishing Well' and a pipe can be seen carrying the overflow flow from the well into the Stra Burn. A substantial stone trough has been set into the ground with the cross at the top and a narrow secondary overflow appears to be present in addition to the aforementioned pipe that leads to the Stra Burn. A substantial amount of graffiti has been added to the cross over the years.\n\nSadly the construction of a new road nearby to Crofthead Farm, avoiding the passage through the Stra Burn Ford, cut off the water supply to this natural spring. An old Sycamore grows next to the well and its cross.\n\nThe Lady's Well is said to have been a Clootie well, the practise dying out after WWII. These 'Clootie wells' were places of pilgrimage in Celtic areas, almost always with a tree growing beside them where strips of cloth or rags were left, usually tied to the branches of the tree as part of a healing ritual. It is not recorded what ailments the holy water from the well was thought to heal. In Scots nomenclature, a \"clootie\" or \"cloot\" is a strip of cloth or rag. Other offerings were also sometimes made at such sites, including coins, pins, white pebbles, etc as is still the case at Saint Queran's Holy Well, Islesteps, near Dumfries.\n\nIt is thought that the name 'Auchmannoch' may translate from the Scots Gaelic 'Achadch Mannoch' as the 'Field of the Monks' linking with the 12th century grant of these lands to the monks of Melrose Abbey by Alan, the High Steward. Millmannoch near Colylton may contain the same name element.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1912433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912433", "title": "Lake Eacham", "text": "Lake Eacham\n\nLake Eacham (originally Yidyam or Wiinggina) is a popular lake of volcanic origin on the Atherton Tableland of Queensland, Australia, within the World Heritage listed Wet Tropics of Queensland.\n\nLake Eacham (\"Yidyam\") was formed over 9,130 years ago when molten magma from the Earth's mantle rose to the surface and heated the water table. The steam that resulted from the boiling water was trapped underground, until massive explosions signalled its release. Huge cracks appeared in the ground and the trees that once lathed the mountainside were levelled and burnt. Eventually, after the eruptions, groundwater filled the crater and the trees grew back, creating the tranquil lake used today by families and tourists for recreation. There are no streams that flow into or out the lake, water is only lost through soakage and evaporation and only replenished through rainfall, the level can fluctuate up to 4 metres between wet and dry seasons. The nearby Lake Barrine formed in a similar way, over 17,300 years ago.\n\nThe local Ngadjon -jii (Aboriginal peoples), name the lake \"Wiinggina\" and tell a parallel, matching story of the Lakes origins, as follows\n\"Two young fellas were trying to spear that wallaby. But they missed and hit a flame tree. That’s a sacred tree. The young fellas not supposed to be out hunting. They weren’t initiated. Their elders told them to stay put, not go out hunting. But they didn’t listen. When they pulled their spear out, part of a grub came out with the spear, which was a witchetty grub. They started cutting down that tree to get more grubs. When they cut down that tree, the ground began to shake. Those two fellas had made Yamini (rainbow serpent) angry. Then the sky turned orange, then all these people back at the camp, the earth went from underneath them, sucked them in, whoosh, they all got drowned. Where they were camped became Bana Wiingina (Lake Eacham).\" (Warren Cannendo, Ngadjon-Jii)\nThis story, in all its local versions, is part of an indigenous oral history and mythology believed to be an oral record recalling those volcanic events more than 10,000 years old.\n\nBack in 1886, Lake Eacham (Yidyam) was included within original survey plans subdividing the whole of the Lake Eacham area into farming blocks. By 1888, however, the scenic value of the lake was recognised, and both the lake plus a narrow band of 'shoreline' rainforest were formally proclaimed \"scenic reserve\". For almost 50 years (1888–1936) the Lake was managed, used and enjoyed as a scenic reserve, with, at times, boats and boating; a guest house; speed boats; and watersking. \n\nIn 1934, the Queensland Government declared the lake and immediate surrounds be protected and managed as Lake Eacham National Park. In 1988, UNESCO declared the Wet Tropics of Queensland a World Heritage site with 14 areas protected, two of which were at Lake Barrine and at Lake Eacham. In 1994, the Queensland Government merged Lake Barrine National Park and Lake Eacham National Park to form Crater Lakes National Park.\n\nLake Eacham (\"Yidyam\") is isolated from any other watercourse (making it an enclosed catchment). How any fish arrived there to begin with is a mystery, but somehow, the Lake Eacham rainbowfish (\"Melanotaenia eachamensis\") found its way into the volcanic lake. Unfortunately for the small species, other larger fish were introduced into this closed system and eventually, these larger fish ate the Lake Eacham rainbowfish into extinction - at least as far as the lake was concerned.\n\nAquarists had been collecting the fish from the Lake Eacham National Park (illegally) and were very successful at breeding them. These private collections became the source stock to reintroduce the fish to the lake. However, the cause of the species' initial demise was still living in the lake and proceeded to deplete the entire population of reintroduced stock. Ichthyologists working in the rivers and streams of the Atherton Tableland have found the Lake Eacham rainbowfish in the Tully, Herbert and Johnstone Rivers and Dirran Creek.\n\nIn addition to the rainbowfish, Lake Eacham has two native fish species: The gudgeon \"Mogurnda adspersa\" and the hardyhead \"Craterocephalus stercusmuscarum\". Other fish in the lake are non-native human introductions.\n\nLake Eacham (\"Yidyam\") is the main feature of the 4.89 km² (1,210 acres) Crater Lakes National Park, with a dense rainforest and thousands of small animals. It is therefore a protected area under Queensland State legislation (\"Nature Conservation Act\" 1994), and, as such, the natural and cultural resources most closely associated with the lake are protected and managed by the Queensland National Parks and Wildlife Service.\n\nThe lake has an average depth of 38 metres (125 ft) with a maximum depth of 65.5 metres (215 ft) and is considered by locals as being ideal for swimming, canoeing, bushwalking, and bird watching. No motor boats are allowed on the lake. It features a pontoon great for diving into the deep water. A large grassy area is set aside for recreation. There is a circuit walk around the lake that takes around 45 minutes to complete. There are also a population of turtles that can usually be seen just to the left of the pontoon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54555435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54555435", "title": "List of mosques in Luxembourg", "text": "List of mosques in Luxembourg\n\nThis is a list of mosques in Luxembourg. \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "500175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=500175", "title": "Low Mass", "text": "Low Mass\n\nLow Mass (called in Latin, \"Missa lecta\", which literally means \"read Mass\") is a Tridentine Mass defined officially in the Code of Rubrics included in the 1962 edition of the Roman Missal as Mass in which the priest does not chant the parts that the rubrics assign to him. A sung Mass in turn is a Solemn or High Mass if celebrated with the assistance of sacred ministers (deacon and subdeacon); without them it is a Missa Cantata. \n\nThe term \"Low Mass\" is also commonly used by Christians of other denominations to refer to a spoken, not sung, form of their own Eucharistic celebrations.\nLow Mass originated in the early Middle Ages as a shortened or simplified form of Solemn Mass. In the early church, as in the Orthodox church today, all services are chanted, and there is no equivalent to the Roman low mass or to the Anglican \"said celebration\".\nAlongside the public solemn Masses, the practise developed from the 4th century onwards, of smaller private Masses for smaller groups of believers. These masses were often celebrated in the catacombs, for the deceased or on a special anniversary. An example is provided by Saint Augustine.\n\nChristian practice had been that there was, at most, one Mass in a monastery or parish church each day. At Cluny in the XIth century a lay-brother ( conversus) was summoned to serve any priest-monk who wanted to celebrate; rules and obligations, as the reading of a Sequence, during the celebration of the private Masses gradually fell, for reasons of convenience. This history of liturgy shows how \"out of the private Mass grew the read Mass - the low Mass\". \n\nIn the late Middle Ages, with a growing awareness of the infinite value of the Mass, came a growing desire to multiply its celebration. Spiritual, as well as material reasons were at hand. The most pronounced result of the multiplying of Masses was the increase in low Masses, since most of them were for private requests and had no public character. This trend to the private and the subjective, to an independence from the grand order of things was also displayed in another abuse, namely, setting aside the arrangement of the ecclesiastical year and confining oneself to Votive Masses either chosen at will or arranged according to the rules of the Mass series. Over time it became necessary for a variety of reasons to celebrate more than one on the same day. It also became customary for monasteries to ordain most of their monks, though originally monks were almost all laymen, and for every priest to say a daily Mass. For a while, concelebration, whereby several priests took a full priestly part in offering Mass, provided all with the possibility to celebrate Mass each day, but this custom died out. Low Mass is considered to be a necessity that falls short of the ideal, which is Solemn Mass.\n\n\"The Catholic Encyclopedia\" of 1913 describes the result as follows: \n\nBy the end of the Middle Ages, critics had grown more numerous, and mystics, such as Nicholas of Cusa, or bishops, attempted a spiritual and disciplinary reform, to avoid scandals of botched up Masses and abuse of stipends. A special work of Martin Luther's deals with \"the abomination of the low Mass called the canon\" (\"Von dem Greuel der Stillmesse so man Canon nennet\", 1524). His critics were such that priests, who had been living on Mass stipends, could no longer do so as easily, even in staunchly Catholic areas as the diocese of Salzburg.\n\nThe Council of Trent was concerned above all with the \"Low Mass\" (that is, with a liturgy that was recited and not sung), which had become the ordinary form of the Eucharistic celebration in the parishes. In 1562, a special commission was to assemble the \"abusus missae\". The Roman Missal revised after the Council of Trent appears as a work that defines, above all, the rituals of \"Low Mass\" or the \"private Mass\". Some have argued that in giving priority to the \"Low Mass\", a practice developed of making the Eucharistic celebration an act of private devotion by the priest, whereas the faithful were simply invited to attend the Mass and to unite their prayers with it as sincerely as possible as a certain individualism developed alongside the \"devotio moderna\".\n\nThose who during the Counter-Reformation attempted to rebuild religious life had to look for different ways and means to enable the faithful to participate in a devout manner. One of the ways was to encourage vocal prayer during Mass, to meditate on the mysteries of the life of Christ by praying the Rosary, a practise which had existed locally since the Middle Ages, but which become popular under the influence of the popular missions organized by the Jesuits. The German \"Singmesse\", which added sung hymns to the Low Mass, gradually won great popularity, to the place that it began to take over the Solemn Mass.\n\nBy the mid-XXth century, a new form of the Low Mass, the \"missa dialogata\", appeared as a new mode of encouraging the participation of the faithful. In the Low Mass, the alternation of functions between priest, lector, singing choir and people had been leveled off to a uniform speaking by the priest alone. However, the Low Mass had acquired such a great preponderance over the various forms of high Mass that without further ado it was used as the groundwork for the development of the dialogue Mass. In essentials nevertheless, the High Mass had to set the norm. Various local churches went in various directions and the so-called \"Betsingmesse\" -\" Pray and sing\" Mass- very quickly gained recognition since its first trial use at the Vienna Catholic Day in 1933. No changes affected the \"Missale Romanum\", neither its texts nor its rubrics, as the changes concerned the participation of the faithful solely.\n\nThere have been few substantial changes since the Second Vatican Council on the Low Mass, as it is practised nowadays in the extraordinary form of the Roman Rite. The readings may now be read directly in the vernacular language.\n\n\"Private Mass\" (in Latin, \"Missa privata\" or \"secreta, familiaris, peculiaris\"), which is now understood as Mass celebrated without a congregation, formerly meant any Low Mass, even with a large congregation. In editions of the Roman Missal earlier than that of 1962, \"Missa privata\" was still contrasted with \"Missa solemnis\". In 1960 Pope John XXIII, who in 1962 removed from the Roman Missal the section headed \"Rubricae generales Missalis\", replacing it with his Code of Rubrics, decried use of the term \"Missa privata\": \"The most sacred Sacrifice of the Mass celebrated according to the rites and regulations is an act of public worship offered to God in the name of Christ and the Church. Therefore, the term 'private Mass' should be avoided.\" When applied to Low Mass in general, the word \"privata\" indicated that that form of Mass was \"deprived\" of certain ceremonies.\n\nHowever, the influence it has had on the liturgical reform and the 1970 Roman Missal is such that despite protestations to the contrary, it may be said that the Low Mass is the real model of the \"novus ordo\" Mass.\n\nThe Eucharistic celebration is \"one single act of worship\" but consists of different elements, which always include \"the proclamation of the Word of God; thanksgiving to God the Father for all his benefits, above all the gift of his Son; the consecration of bread and wine, which signifies also our own transformation into the body of Christ; and participation in the liturgical banquet by receiving the Lord's body and blood\".\n\nLow Mass, celebrated in exactly the same way whether a congregation is present or not, was the most common form of Mass before 1969. In the 1970 edition of the Roman Missal a distinction was made between Mass celebrated with a congregation and Mass celebrated without a congregation. No such distinction was made in earlier (Tridentine) editions of the Roman Missal, which only distinguished between Solemn Mass and Low Mass (calling the latter \"Missa lecta\" or, as in the \"Rubricae generales Missalis\" included in pre-1962 editions, \"Missa privata\").\n\nThe structure of the Low Mass is generally the same as that of the Solemn High Mass. However, prayers after Mass, including the Leonine prayers, are added. The main celebrant is not assisted by a deacon nor subdeacon, nor is he answered by a choir, but one or two altar servers follow their duties as acolytes, and answer the responses in latin. All prayers are recited and no singing is expected. The incensement rite is not included. The faithful are expected to kneel for most of the Mass, except for the proclamation of the Gospel.\n\nOriginally, Low Mass was sung in monotone. Thus we read of priests in the Middle Ages going to \"sing\" their \"\"Missa privat\"a\" or \"Low Mass\". This custom of singing died out in the 18th century. Much of Low Mass is said in a voice audible only to the celebrating priest and the server(s). \n\nThe French and Germans evolved the concept of accompanying Low Mass with music as an aid to the devotion of the faithful, thus giving rise to the French Organ Mass and the Deutsche Singmesse. Also Messe basse, the French translation of Low Mass, was used to indicate Mass compositions, e.g. Fauré's \"Messe basse\".\n\nIn 1922, the Holy See granted approval to the Dialogue Mass, which enabled the faithful to speak, with the server, the Latin responses of the Tridentine Mass and to recite the parts that they were permitted to sing at a \"Missa Cantata\", as well as the triple \"Domine non sum dignus\" that the priest said as part of the rite of Communion of the faithful, which, though not envisaged in the Ordinary of the Mass until after the Second Vatican Council, could be inserted into the celebration of Mass. Apart from the language used and the differences between the editions of the Roman Missal, the Dialogue Mass was thus similar to a Mass of Paul VI that is spoken, not sung.\n\nAll Souls Day is the only non-Sunday, non-Holy Day in the Church Year on which a priest is permitted to celebrate three Masses. The Tridentine Missal contains three distinct sets of Mass Propers to be celebrated, should a priest be able to celebrate all three Masses. Note that no matter how many Masses are celebrated, the faithful may receive Holy Communion at no more than two Masses per day.\n\nAt a Pontifical Low Mass, i.e. a Low Mass celebrated by a bishop, in addition to the two servers that you find at any typical low Mass, there are also two priest-attendants to the bishop that assist him, reminding us that a bishop retains the fullness of holy orders. Instead of a mitre, a biretta is used by the prelate.\n\nBefore the Second Vatican Council, at a Papal Low Mass (which was usually celebrated at a portable altar set up in one of the rooms of the Apostolic Palace and is distinct from the private Mass the Pope said in his private chapel), the Pope was assisted by two bishops and four papal Masters of Ceremonies. Chamberlains (\"cubicularii\") served as torchbearers. The pontifical canon was used, as was the \"bugia\". Vesting and unvesting at the altar is another peculiarity of Pontifical Low Mass.\n\n\"The Three Low Masses\" (\"Les Trois Messes basses\") is a Christmas story by Alphonse Daudet, published in 1875 in the \"Tales of Monday\" and integrated in 1879 in the collection of the \"Letters from my Windmill\". The story is at the end of the eighteenth century, in an imaginary Provencal castle. Pleasant and irreverent, tinged with fantasy, it depicts a priest guilty of the sin of gluttony. Tempted by the devil who, in the guise of his young sexton, has described to him in great detail the exquisite menu of New Year's Eve, he sends off three Christmas Masses to rush more quickly to the table. God punishes his offense: before going to heaven, he will have to recite, for a century, in the company of his faithful culprits, a service of the Nativity, or three hundred low masses.\n\nA French-language film with the same title was made in 1954 by Marcel Pagnol.\n\nHowever, the Christmas Low Masses are a goof as the rubrics extended the privilege of three sung Masses from the Pope to all the clergy, and in no case applied to the Low Mass. The three stational Masses celebrated by the Pope in Rome extended to three Christmas Masses to be sung, not without interruption: that of the day, \"solemnissima,\" ; that of the night, \"valde solemnis,\" ; that of daybreak, \"minus solemnis\" and resulted of a duplicate of the feast of the Epiphanies in Jerusalem. The privilege of celebrating at night did not extend, except indult, to private Masses, i.e. low Masses; the contrary custom was an abuse and was condoned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51602252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51602252", "title": "Nordic round churches", "text": "Nordic round churches\n\nNordic round churches are a type of round church found in Denmark, Sweden, and Norway.\n\nAccording to the usual interpretation, Nordic round churches were designed with defence in mind. Aside from their religious role, they also served as power symbols, storehouses and a safe place for community members to place their valuables during regional conflicts. Since stone buildings were still unusual in Scandinavia in the 12th century and there was not much experience of defending and attacking them, people in crisis areas often decided to build a single structure which combined the functions of a castle and a church, rather than two separate buildings. Even ordinary long churches were built such that the door could be barred from inside by very strong beams, which were inserted into deep holes on both sides of the door. Round churches also often had facilities which enabled the doors to be defended from above. In general, the round shape enabled defence, since it gave the defenders a better view of their surroundings and offered no blind spots for attackers to take advantage of.\n\nResearch connects round churches with the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem. The Church of Vårdsberg, for instance, contains a series of niches whose arrangement clearly parallels the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. This connection has a long history in Europe. Well-known structures which show similar influence from the Church of the Holy Sepulchre include the Basilica of San Vitale in Ravenna, the Haghia Sophia in Istanbul, and the Palatine Chapel of Charlemagne in Aachen. In addition to this, earlier round buildings in Europe, such as the Pantheon in Rome, were converted into church buildings. Archaeological investigations suggest the conclusion that a number of round churches were originally non-Christian sacred buildings converted into churches. Additionally, the round churches show strong German and West Slavic influence. German influence is most apparent in the round churches of Bornholm, while the Swedish churchs show more signs of West Slavic influence. Signs of this influence as far afield as the on Orkney indicate an extraordinary cultural exchange at that time even over great distances.\n\nThe best known surviving round churches of Denmark () are on the island of Bornholm. They were built in the twelfth century, but exact dates are not known. They have been modified repeatedly. Their significance lies in their fortress-like outer-walls with large buttresses, which bear the weight of a round barrel vault along with a central pillar. All the round churches of Bornholm, except for Ny Kirke, are fortified churches. The central pillar is often decorated with a painted frieze. Originally, the round churches had flat roofs with battlements (for defence). Their characteristic conical roofs were first added in the late middle ages. The weight of these roofs rests on the outer walls, making strong external supports necessary, which are especially distinctive on the church of Østerlars. The first three churches in the list below have three stories, the Ny Kirke has two stories. The upper stories are only accessible by narrow passages and served the local people as a refuge against pirate raids.\n\nThe other three Danish round churches are located in Jutland and on the islands of Funen and Zealand. They are united by their lack of strengthened outer walls. They have vaulted roofs which are supported by four central pillars and are referred to as \"Absalon Round churches\". The name derives from the archbishop Absalon of Lund, a member of the Zealand noble and ecclesiastical family of Hvide. All three structures have the same floor plan, which derives from the former round church of Schlamersdorf in Wagria. The former round church of Petersborg, north of Sorø in Zealand was also built on this model.\n\n\nOnly eight round churches () survive in Sweden. Ruins or foundations of another five exist some of which have been incorporated into subsequent buildings. These round churches are the oldest churches in Sweden and date to the twelfth and early thirteenth centuries. Some later churches in Sweden are modelled on the round church structure, such as Trinity Church in Karlskrona, as well as the Skeppsholmen Church and the Katarina Church in Stockholm. Interest in further archaeological investigation for churches in other sites has been aroused by the excavations of the ruins of Klosterstad.\n\n\nThe sole Norwegian round church () lies in ruins at Tønsberg, the oldest city in Norway. It was part of a Medieval cloister of the Premonstratensians. Its construction began in the second half of the twelfth century and was completed in 1191. It was consecrated to St Olaf. The choice of a round church as the church of a cloister is unique. In addition, its outer walls were the largest of any round church in Scandinavia. An explanation of this size could be the importance of the cult of St Olaf, which still continues. Only a few years after its consecration in March 1207, king Erling Steinvegg was buried in the church. In 1536, four years after the secularisation of the cloister, the church burnt down. Some parts were able to be rebuilt and were subsequently used as the liege lord's residence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58359895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58359895", "title": "Oswald Lewis (bishop)", "text": "Oswald Lewis (bishop)\n\nBishop Oswald Lewis (born 30 July 1944) is the first Bishop of the newly created Roman Catholic Diocese of Jaipur.\n\nHe was born in Kemmannu village of Udupi district of Karnataka state, India, on 30 July 1944.\n\nHe was ordained a priest for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Lucknow on 30 December 1972.\n\nOn 21 November 1997 he was appointed Coadjutor Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Meerut and ordained as a bishop on 16 April 1998.\n\nHe was appointed first Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Jaipur on 20 July 2005\n"}
{"id": "54522898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54522898", "title": "Palace of Darius in Susa", "text": "Palace of Darius in Susa\n\nThe Palace of Darius in Susa was a palace complex in Susa, Iran, a capital of the Achaemenid Empire. The construction was conducted parallel to that of Persepolis. Man-power and raw materials from various parts of the empire contributed to its construction. It was once destroyed by fire and was partially restored later. Little has remained from this important complex.\n\nThe palace complex was constructed by the Achaemenid king Darius I in Susa, his favorite capital. Construction works continued under Darius I's son, Xerxes, and to a lesser extent, Artaxerxes I (465–424 BC) and Darius II (423–404 BC). Artaxerxes II (404–358 BC) partially restored the palace as it was destroyed by a fire during the reign of Artaxerxes I fifty years earlier. The palace was captured and plundered by the invading Macedonians under Alexander the Great in December 330 BC.\n\nThe site of the palace has been greatly damaged during the past seven decades.\n\nConstruction was carried out at Susa parallel to those at Persepolis. Built on an artificially raised platform high, covering , the complex at Susa consists of a residential palace, an apadana (audience hall), and a monumental gate. A covered passage (\"Propylaeum\") faces these structures. The apadana at Susa is similar to that of Persepolis, using the distinctive Persian column, topped by two bulls, which was probably developed here.\n\nSources describing Achaemenid-era Susa are rare. The Achaemenid constructions at Susa are mostly known through the royal inscriptions, which are mostly trilingual—in Old Persian, Elamite, and Babylonian. Unlike the massive number of clay tablets found in Persepolis, only few clay tablets have been found in Susa, despite its important political and economic situation.\n\nAccording to Gene R. Garthwaite, the Susa Palace served as Darius' model for Persepolis. Comparing the palace to that of Pasargadae, the former Achaemenid capital, he argues that Susa even more represented Achaemenid simultaneous rulership, and \"what was symbolic was actualized\", such that Darius's rule \"could command craftsmen and material from the breadth of the empire\" to build the monument, as is described in Darius' \"charter of foundation\" of the palace (or the DSf inscription), which enumerates the workers and the material used:\n\n"}
{"id": "25887394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887394", "title": "Psilocybe aquamarina", "text": "Psilocybe aquamarina\n\nPsilocybe aquamarina is a species of mushroom in the family Hymenogastraceae. First described as a species of \"Stropharia\" by David Pegler in 1977, it was transferred to the genus \"Psilocybe\" by Gastón Guzmán in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "20184481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20184481", "title": "Psilocybe cyanofibrillosa", "text": "Psilocybe cyanofibrillosa\n\nPsilocybe cyanofibrillosa also known as Rhododendron Psilocybe and Blue-Haired Psilocybe is a psilocybin mushroom of the Agaricales family having psilocybin and psilocin as main active compounds. First documented in 1980 in the Pacific Northwest, it is relatively uncommon and can be distinguished from other closely related species by its smaller spores and forking cheilocystidia.\n\"Psilocybe cyanescens\" also has forking cheilocystidia, but less often than \"Psilocybe cyanofibrillosa\". \"Psilocybe cyanofibrillosa\" is also distinguished from \"Psilocybe cyanescens\" by an absence of pleurocystidia. \nThe name of this species refers to the fibrils on the Stipe (mycology) that turn bluish in age, or when handled.\n\nThis species is closely related to \"Psilocybe subfimetaria\".\n\n\"Psilocybe cyanofibrillosa\" has a farinaceous smell and taste.\n\nThe Pileus is 1.4–3.5 cm in diameter and conic to convex to broadly convex then becoming flat in age. It is not usually umbonate. The pileus is deep chestnut brown and hygrophanous, fading to yellowish brown or grayish white when dry. The surface is viscid when moist from the separable gelatinous pellicle.\n\nThe gills are adnate to adnexed to slightly subdecurrent in age. It is light grayish, becoming purplish brown with age while the edges remain whitish.\n\n\"Psilocybe cyanofibrillosa\" spores are purplish brown in deposit, subellipsoid in shape, and (9)9.5–11(12) x (5.5)6–6.6(7) µm.\n\nThe stipe is 3–8 cm long and 0.5 cm thick. It has an equal structure only enlarging near the base. The stipe is striate, pallid to yellow brown with fine fibrils that stain blue when handled. The stipe has a cortina that sometimes leaves a fragile annular zone. White rhizomorphs are at the base. The flesh is brownish and bruises bluish to indigo-black.\n\n\"Psilocybe cyanofibrillosa\" basidia each produce four spores, and rarely only two spores. The cheilocystidia are fusiform to lanceolate and 22–33 x 5.5–7 µm, with an elongated, forking neck and are 1–1.5 µm thick at its apex. Pleurocystidia are absent in \"Psilocybe cyanofibrillosa\".\n\n\"Psilocybe cyanofibrillosa\" is found growing scattered to gregarious, from September to December from Northern California to British Columbia, Canada. It is found in soils enriched with deciduous wood debris, among bush lupines, in Alder and Willow wood chips and bark mulch, Fir sawdust, in coastal regions, in rhododendron gardens and nurseries, and in flood plains in river estuaries.\n\nBoth psilocybin and psilocin (0.05 mg per gram dry weight and 1.4 mg per gram psilocin) were detected by Beug and Bigwood.\n\n"}
{"id": "20815394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20815394", "title": "Ralph Mackin", "text": "Ralph Mackin\n\nRalph Mackin and his wife were a Seventh-day Adventist couple from Ohio, United States. They claimed to experience gifts of the Holy Spirit such as prophecy, speaking in tongues, and even casting out demons. They caused a stir at a local Adventist camp meeting, which was reported in the local newspaper. They later sought the counsel of Ellen G. White, whom Adventists believe had the gift of prophecy. White was initially cautious regarding their experiences, and later came out opposed to them. After leading some meetings at an Adventist church for a time, they pass from prominence in the church.\n\nOn November 12, 1908 Ralph Mackin and his wife from Ohio visited Ellen White at her \"Elmshaven\" home in California, having called on Willie White the previous day. Aged in their thirties, they sought her counsel and approval of some spectacular experiences, but she counseled not to continue. Ralph stated, \"If we are in a delusion, we want to know it, just as much as if we were in the right.\" His wife added, \"Our brethren certainly think that we are in a delusion.\"\n\nNearly three years earlier their Findlay, Ohio church sought \"the outpouring of the Holy Spirit.\" They studied the Bible and Ellen White's writings, seeking a \"blessing of sanctification\" which they received in the form of speaking in tongues as in . \n\nThe Mackins had visited a family in Clyde who also received the \"blessing\", marked by weeping in many of them. A \"little girl ten or eleven years old\" told them \"through the Spirit of prophecy\", \"You go to Toledo\". They were also told imprisonment would ensue there. In Toledo a Polish Catholic heard Mrs. Mackin in his own tongue. When the Mackins returned to Clyde they were arrested for mesmerism. This occurred six or eight weeks before seeing the Whites.\n\nThey caused a stir at the Adventist camp meeting in Mansfield, Ohio, which resulted in the arrests of the Mackins, plus their daughter, Ralph's mother, and \"Sister Edwards\". They believed the Spirit had told Mrs. Mackin to go to the campground and sing, \"only as she prays in the Spirit and special power comes upon her.\" However they were arrested for disturbance. In court, one witness testified, \"I never heard such singing in my life. It just thrilled me through and through.\" Supporters had stated, \"It is when the singing is extemporaneous – dictated by the Spirit – that it is the most wonderful.\" (They also claimed the gift of tongues, with Ralph speaking Chinese and his wife Yiddish as the result of a vision;)\n\nThey read numerous passages from the Bible, and some experiences of Ellen White. They also spoke of casting out demons:\n(White later rebuked them:\n\nEllen White expressed her caution, sharing how past experiences had made her \"fearful of anything savoring of a spirit of fanaticism.\" It had tarnished the church's image, taking \"years to outlive the influence that these exhibitions of fanaticism had upon the general public.\" She said they should focus on sharing the Bible: \"We must direct the minds of the people to the Word as the foundation of our faith...It is through the Word—-not feeling, not excitement— that we want to influence the people to obey the truth. On the platform of God's Word we can stand with safety.\"\n\nThe meeting concluded, and the following day the Mackins went to San Jose. Ralph was invited to preach at the church there, and meetings continued for several days until the pastor returned and stopped them, following which Ralph continued to hold meetings in supporters' homes.\n\nTwo weeks later Ellen wrote to S. N. Haskell, \"before the end\" some \" will treat as something of great importance these peculiar manifestations, which are not of God, but which are calculated to divert the minds of many away from the teachings of the Word.\" Later, \"God's work is ever characterized by calmness and dignity.\"\n\nIn December Ellen White received one or two visions about the case, and wrote two letters on the 11th, one to the Mackins and one to \"Our Brethren in California\". To the Mackins she wrote in part, \"You suppose that all you do is for the glory of God, but you are deceiving yourselves and deceiving others... You attempt to make the truth of God sustain false sentiments and incorrect actions that are inconsistent and fanatical.\" She also wrote, \"I was bidden to speak decidedly against this fanatical work.\" She was concerned that fanaticism would give the church a bad image:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35622274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35622274", "title": "Religious attribution", "text": "Religious attribution\n\nReligious Attribution in social psychology refers to how individuals attempt to explain/understand causes of behavior and/or events. Religious attribution is a theory derived from attribution theory of social psychology.\n\nThe two types of attributions when considering religion are naturalistic and religious attributions.\n\nEvidence supports that most people under most circumstances initially employ naturalistic attributions and explanations such as references to people, natural events, accidents, or chance. This is the attribution type that is most common among most, in many different situations. For example, say one finds himself in a house all alone during a tornado. Say the man's house gets ripped to shreds, but he somehow survives. For a naturalistic attributor they may say \"that was lucky\" or \"the tornado must have hit just the right way\".\n\nDepending upon an array of situational and personal characteristics, there is a good chance of shifting to a more religious attribution type when naturalistic ones do not satisfy the needs for meaning, control, and esteem. Say for example we go back to the man whose house was destroyed by tornado. A religious attributor would be much for likely to say that they \"miraculously\" survived, or that it was the work of God that they are still alive.\n\nThe question is why would people use religious attributions anyway. This question takes us to a few very basic motivational themes that underlie much religious thinking and behavior—namely, the human need for meaning, control and esteem. The nature of people makes us \"need to know\" things, and we have need for control and mastery of our lives. This is where need for control and meaning play in. But why esteem? Research suggests that people assign causality in order to maintain and enhance their self-esteem. Attributions are triggered when meanings are unclear; and when meaning is unclear control is unclear and self-esteem is challenged.\n\nThere are certain situational factors that combine and intertwine to play are significant role in the prevalence and use of religious attribution. These situational influences fall into two broad categories: \"contextual factors\" and \"event character factors\". Contextual factors is concerned with the degree to which situations are religiously structured i.e. was the person at church? In deep prayer? Event character factors is more concerned with the nature of the event. When examining research done on contextual factors it is found the salience of religion in general seems to be the largest influence. This suggests that the availability heuristic works here, and that religious influence in situations increases the probability of making religious attributions. When taking a closer look at event character factors we find that there are a number of internal influences that can factor in, such as: Importance of what takes place; whether the event is positive or negative; the domain of the event (medical, financial, etc.); and whether the event happens to the attributing person, or someone they know.\n\nPeople attribute things that are out of their hands to God. Death of a loved one, natural disaster, etc., all of these things can be \"explained\" with religious attribution by saying it is God's will. Science can cover a lot of things but it cannot answer questions like \"why me\" that people seem to ask whenever something momentous happens in their life.\n\nPositivity and negativity of an event are important to consider because people often make attributions to God, but not very often to people blame God for the bad things that happen to them. Attributions to God are overwhelmingly positive. Often when something negative happens there is still attribution to God, but it is not negative. It is not God is punishing me, or God is a giant kid with a magnifying glass smiting everyone; it is rather things like \"God is trying to teach me something\" or \"God is making me stronger\".\n\nIt is important to consider the event domains when explaining attribution. There are some domains that are \"ready made\" for the application of secular understanding, while others seem more appropriate for invoking religious possibilities; for example medical situations elicit more religious attributions than other social or economic type circumstances, like money problems.\n\nWhen events occur to us, they are much more personally important than when they happen to others. We may be upset or deeply concerned when something bad happens to one of our friends, but when it is us suffering from something the question \"why me?\" comes into play, and attribution is the means to find the answer. On the other side of the coin if something good happens for someone else, like someone winning the lottery, we may say \"well that is lucky\" and be happy for the person. But if you were the one to win it is far more likely to attribute this stroke of luck to \"God looking out for you\", in other words personal relevance elicits more religious attribution.\n\nPeople who attend church frequently, have knowledge in their faith, and people who hold importance of faith highly are more likely to be the type of person to rely more heavily on religious attribution then would people who find themselves lacking in those particular areas. In simple terms the more conservatively religious or orthodox the home and family in which a person is reared, the greater the person's likelihood of using religious attributions later in life. There is some research that claims that Protestants will turn to internal or religious attribution more often than will the more orthodox Catholics on average. In addition children who learn at an early age to attribute things to God are more likely to maintain that characteristic throughout their lifetime.\n\nSomething interesting that most people do not associate with religion that often is the relationship it has with self-esteem and locus of control. In general people with high self-esteem relate more positive and loving images to God, where as people with low self-esteem may not do this because they feel God has been unloving and cold to them. When explaining locus of control there are two different modes. The first is the deferring mode, where people believe that all power resides with God, which would be a low locus of control. The second is the self-directive mode. In this situation the person is active and God plays a more passive role in which they share power. People that use the latter mode tend to draw stronger associations to God, then do people with low locus of control.\n"}
{"id": "25010331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25010331", "title": "San Baltasar", "text": "San Baltasar\n\nSan Baltasar, King Baltasar Cambá or San Baltazar is a folk saint of African origin, widely venerated in the coastal area of Argentina in the province of Corrientes, northeast of Santa Fe and east of Chaco and Formosa. The worship of San Baltasar is considered a para-liturgical cult, known as the Brotherhood of San Baltazar, since the Catholic Church has not canonized nor recognized Baltasar as a saint. San Baltasar appears as a crowned black man wearing a red robe or cloak and carrying a scepter or a staff.\n\nSan Baltasar's feast day is 6 January, when devotees dance and play music in his honor, most commonly candombe. In Concepcion, Tucuman, Argentina, there are activities such as religious worship and musical entertainment offerings. This place called the South Island of San Baltasar, is an architectural ensemble consisting of the church with the image of the saint. He is the unofficial patron saint of Fernando de la Mora, a town in Paraguay.\n\n"}
{"id": "1323454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1323454", "title": "Sapa Inca", "text": "Sapa Inca\n\nThe Sapa Inca (Hispanicized spelling) or Sapa Inka (Quechua for \"the only Inca\"), also known as Apu (\"divinity\"), Inka Qhapaq (\"mighty Inca\"), or simply Sapa (\"the only one\"), was the ruler of the Kingdom of Cusco and, later, the Emperor of the Inca Empire (\"Tawantinsuyu\") and the Neo-Inca State. While the origins of the position are mythical and tied to the legendary foundation of the city of Cusco, historically it seems to have come into being around 1100. The position was hereditary, with son succeeding father. The emperor was viewed as a god. The principal wife of the Inca was known as the Coya.\n\nThere were two known dynasties, led by the Hurin and Hanan moieties respectively. The latter was in power at the time of Spanish conquest. The last effective Sapa Inca of Inca Empire was Atahualpa, who was executed by Francisco Pizarro and his conquistadors in 1533, but several successors later claimed the title.\n\nLittle is known of the rulers of the first dynasty of Sapa Incas. Evidently, they were affiliated with the Hurin moiety and their rule did not extend beyond the Kingdom of Cusco. Their origins are tied to the mythical establishment of Cusco and are shrouded in later foundation myth. The dynasty was supposedly founded by Manco Cápac, considered the son of the sun god Inti.\n\nAs a rough guide to the later reputation of the early Sapa Incas, in later years \"capac\" meant warlord and \"sinchi\" meant leader.\n\nThe second dynasty was affiliated with the Hanan moiety and was founded under Inca Roca, the son of the last Hurin Sapa Inca, Cápac Yupanqui. After Cápac Yupanqui's death, another of his sons, Inca Roca's half-brother Quispe Yupanqui, was intended to succeed him. However, the Hanan revolted and installed Inca Roca instead.\n\nNinan Cuyochi, who was Inca for only a few days in 1527, is sometimes left off the list of Sapa Incas because news of his death from smallpox arrived in Cusco very shortly after he was declared Sapa Inca. He had been with Huayna Cápac when he died. The death of Ninan, the presumed heir, led to the Inca Civil War between Huáscar and Atahualpa, a weakness that the Spanish exploited when they conquered the Inca Empire.\n\nThis last Sapa Inca must not be confused with Túpac Amaru II, who was leader of an 18th-century Peruvian uprising.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51014579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51014579", "title": "Shabakism", "text": "Shabakism\n\nShabakism is the name given to the beliefs and practices of the Shabak people in the disputed territories of northern Iraq. A majority of Shabaks regard themselves as Shia, and a minority identify as Sunnis. Despite this, their actual faith and rituals differ from Islam, and have characteristics that make them distinct from neighboring Muslim populations. These include features from Christianity including confession, the consumption of alcohol, and the tradition of many Shabak pilgrims going to Yazidi shrines. Nevertheless, the Shabak people also go on pilgrimages to Shia holy cities such as Najaf and Karbala, and follow many Shiite teachings.\n\nThe organization of Shabakism appears to be much like that of a Sufi order: adult laymen (Murids) are bound to spiritual guides (pîrs or Murshids) who are knowledgeable in matters of religious doctrine and ritual. There are several ranks of such pîrs; at the top stands the Baba, or supreme head of the order. Theoretically individuals can choose their own pîr, but in practice the pir families often become associated with lay families over several generations.\n\nShabakism combines elements of Sufism with the uniquely Shabak interpretation of \"divine reality.\" According to Shabaks, this divine reality supersedes the literal, or Shar'ia, interpretation of the Quran. Shabaks comprehend divine reality through the mediation of the \"Pir\" or spiritual guide, who also performs Shabak rituals. The structure of these mediatory relationships closely resembles that of the Yarsan.\n\nThe primary Shabak religious text is the Buyruk or \"Kitab al-Managib\" (Book of Exemplary Acts) and is written in Turkoman. Shabaks also consider the poetry of Ismail I to be revealed by God, and they recite Ismail's poetry during religious meetings.\n\n"}
{"id": "58865929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58865929", "title": "Shikharji Movement", "text": "Shikharji Movement\n\nShikharji Movement is a campaign by Jains to protest against state government's project related to the development of infrastructure on the hill of Shikharji considered sacred by the Jains. This movement was initiated by Jain monk Aacharya Yugbhushan Surishwarji against recent infrastructure development initiated by the existing Government’s actions, which Jains believe, has severely affected the sanctity of the Shikharji Hill. This Movement is unitedly led by Jains of all sects(Shwetamber, Digamber, Sthanak and Terapanthi).\n\nTrhough this movement, the Jains want the Shikharji Hill declared as a 'Place Of Worship', by the concerned authorities of the Govt. Shikharji Tirth is regarded as the most sacred place of worship for the Jains. Jain community members have opposed the plans of the state government to improve the infrastructure in the hill to boost tourism as alleged attempts to commercialize the Shikharji hill.\n\nThe modern history records show that Shikharji Hill is regarded as the place of worship of the Jain community. During the regime of Mughal’s rule in India, Emperor Akbar in the year 1583 had voluntarily passed an official order (farman) granting the management of Shikharji Hill to the Jain community to prevent the slaughter of animals in the vicinity..\n\nThis Act came into force on 25/09/1950 by Bihar Government of India. As per this Act, all the proprietors, mortgagees, lessees and tenure-holders in land, including interests in trees, forests, fisheries, jalkars, ferries, hats, bazaars, mines and minerals have to be transferred it to the State Government\nWith the help of this act, the state government of Bihar on 02/05/1953 issued a notification under Section 3(1) of the Bihar Land Reforms Act that the entire Shikharji Hill will hence forth be rendered as state’s property.\nJains believe as a fall out of this newly enforced act, activities like Tree Plantation, Pig farming, Cultivations, Building of Sanatorium, Helipad, tourist resorts etc could find a way to flourish on the Holy Hill.\nDespite a clear mention of the following point in chapter I, section 4 (f) of the Bihar land reforms act- “ ….nothing contained in this clause ….authorize the Collector to take charge of any institution, religious or secular……..”\n\nThe Govt. has carried out various activities listed below.\nThere are inhibitions of the Jain community that developing the hill into a tourist place will attract a lot of other social and cultural evils. Hotels, motels, non veg food, hunting, gambling, prostitution, adultery etc may become rampant in times to come.\nOn 22 September 2015, the Government released a press note stating that it shall focus on developing the hill as an International spiritual centre for peace and enlightment .This press release of Government was prompted because a delegation of the Jains’ had gone to protest against the prospective idea of the Government to build a Helipad. When the delegation pointed out their concerns for such a step, Government retracted and agreed in principle to withdraw its development plans and instead decided to glorify the sacredness of the hill. On December 27 the CM reiterated the above actions which will be taken by this government .However, Government chose to construct the helipad and built barracks for military.\n\nAll the sects of the Jains’ consider this Hill as the most sacred place.\n\nSave Shikharji campaign has been on a roll more than a month now; number of protests across the country from the people of Jain community have taken place in the form of on/off line petitions addressed to the PM and the CM of Jharkhand state. Protest rallies, congregations and protests on social media have been taken up by the community. \n\nOn 10 October 2018, government orally assured that it will not construct any other structure on the hill which will affect sanctity of Jains. However, Jains are still demanding a written statement from the concerned authorities declaring Shikharji as a place of worship, as they believe they have been betrayed by giving oral assurances earlier by the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "28588214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28588214", "title": "Shin Upagutta", "text": "Shin Upagutta\n\nShin Upagutta ( or ; also spelt Shin Upagot, Shin Upagote or Shin U Pagoke) is a arahant commonly venerated by Buddhists in Myanmar, as he is believed to protect worshipers from danger, including floods and storms. He is also venerated in Northern Thailand and Laos, where he is known as Upakhut (; ).\n\nHe is commonly depicted sitting cross-legged, dressed in monk's robes and with a hand tilted into an alms bowl called a thabeik, and is associated with nāga, water serpents. He is believed to be either Moggaliputta-Tissa, a Buddhist monk who presided the Third Buddhist council, Upagupta, a Mahayana arhat, or a creation of Mahayana Buddhism, because he is not described in the Pali Canon and only mentioned in the Burmese historical chronicle \"Maha Yazawin\".\n\nSome Burmese believe that Shin Upagutta is still living, in a floating brass palace in the southern ocean, and that he can be invoked through a special Pali incantation, and that his mere invisible presence will prevent storms and floods. Shin Upagutta is commonly venerated by people in the Irrawaddy Delta. A major festival dedicated to Shin Upagutta is in Shwegyin, near Bago, during the Burmese month of Thadingyut. Another, called the \"Ye Hmyaw Pwe\" (), is held in Yangon's Chinatown in October and involves a Chinese-style procession and ceremonial dispersal of ashes into the Yangon River.\n\n"}
{"id": "54651943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54651943", "title": "Slavic Native Faith in Ukraine", "text": "Slavic Native Faith in Ukraine\n\nSlavic Native Faith (Rodnovery) in Ukraine has an unspecified number of adherents which ranges between the thousands and the tens of thousands. A movement within Rodnovery which is unique to Ukraine is the Native Ukrainian National Faith, established by Lev Sylenko in the 1960s among the Ukrainian diaspora in North America, and introduced in Ukraine only in the 1990s.\n\nIn 2005, Ivakhiv noted that there were likely between 5000 and 10,000 Rodnovers in Ukraine. He also observed that it had undergone dramatic growth in the country since the early and mid 1990s. Other sociologists estimated that in the same years Ukrainian Rodnovers were more than 90,000 (0.2% of the total population).\n\nIvakhiv noted that the average age of Ukrainian Rodovers was older than the average age of Pagans in the West, and also noted that the religion's \"main base\" was \"nationally oriented ethnic Ukrainians of higher-than-average educational levels\". He observed that there was overlap between the Rodnover communities and other sectors of Ukrainian society, such as the folk and traditional music revival groups, Cossack associations, traditional martial arts groups, and nationalist and ultra-nationalist organisations. He added that Rodnovery remains \"a relatively small niche in Ukrainian religious culture\", and that it faces a mixed reception in the country. Established Ukrainian Orthodox and Roman Catholic groups have viewed Slavic Native Faith with alarm and hostility, while the country's educated and intellectual classes tend to view it as a fringe part of the ultra-conservative movement which was tinged with anti-Semitism and xenophobia.\n\nIn the global Ukrainian diaspora, there has been a \"great decline\" in the numbers practising the Native Ukrainian National Faith branch of Rodnovery. This has been due to the branch's inability to attract sufficient numbers of youth in this community. Alternately, the Ukrainian organisation Ancestral Fire of the Native Orthodox Faith has established groups in both Moldova and Germany. In Ukraine, much like in Russia, Rodnovery is very popular among Cossacks, and the variety that they embrace, Assianism, is linked to a rediscovery of Scythian identity. Pilkington and Popov report one Russian Cossack saying that in Ukraine it is easier to meet Rodnover Cossacks than Christian Cossacks.\n\nRodnovery has a significant role in the War in Donbass, with many Rodnovers forming or joining armed forces. Some of them—for example those of the Svarozich Battalion—have been fighting in favour of Russia; other Rodnovers—such as those of the Azov Battalion—have taken the side of Ukraine. The war has stirred different reactions among Rodnovers in Ukraine; those belonging to the Native Ukrainian National Faith viewed Russia as the aggressor, while adherents of other Rodnover organisations like the Ancestral Fire of the Native Orthodox Faith more commonly saw Russians and Ukrainians as brothers and believed that the conflict was caused by the machinations of the United States.\n\nRussian Rodnover military formations in Donbass include the Svarog, Varyag and Rusich formations, and Rodnovers within the Russian Orthodox Army. Observers have highlighted that Russian Rodnovers have been proselytising in the region, with the endorsement of Russia, under the name \"Orthodoxy\" and preaching the concept of a new \"Russian World\", and that their beliefs have even permeated the Orthodox Christian church.\n\nAs of 2016, the Ukrainian government granted official recognition only to four Rodnover organisations, among tens of them, and to more than thirty other congregations not affiliated with the four. The four Rodnover organisations with official registration as religious entities are the following ones:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13820024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13820024", "title": "The Early History of God", "text": "The Early History of God\n\nThe Early History of God: Yahweh and Other Deities in Ancient Israel is a book on the history of ancient Israelite religion by Mark S. Smith, Skirball Professor of Bible and Ancient Near Eastern Studies at New York University. The revised 2002 edition contains revisions to the original 1990 edition in light of intervening archaeological finds and studies.\n\nThe history of the emergence of Judaism and monotheism has been the subject of study since at least the 19th century and Julius Wellhausen's \"Prolegomena to the History of Israel\"; in the 20th century a work was William F. Albright's \"Yahweh and the Gods of Canaan\" (1968), which insisted on the essential otherness of Yahweh from the Canaanite gods from the very beginning of Israel's history. Smith and others believe that Israel and its religion emerged gradually from a West Semitic and Canaanite background.\n\nSmith says that Israelite culture was largely Canaanite in origin, and that deities such as El, Baal and Asherah, far from being alien to the Israelites, formed part of their heritage. He therefore sees Israelite monolatry (the insistence that Israel should worship one god, Yahweh, but without denying the reality of other gods) as a break with Israel's own past.\n\nYahweh, he argues, originated in Edom/Midian/Teman as a warrior-god and was subsequently assimilated into the highland pantheon headed by El and his consort, Asherah and populated by Baal and other deities.\n\nSmith sees this process as marked by two major phases, which he describes as \"convergence\" and \"differentiation\". In the period of the Judges and the early monarchy, convergence saw the coalescence of the qualities of other deities, and even the deities themselves, into Yahweh. Thus El became identified as a name of Yaweh, Asherah ceased to be a distinct goddess, and qualities of El, Asherah and Baal (notably, for Baal, his identification as a storm-god) were assimilated into Yahweh. In the period from the 9th century BC through to the Exile certain features of the Israelite religion were differentiated from the Yahweh cult, identified as Canaanite, and rejected: examples include Baal, child sacrifice, the asherah, worship of the sun and moon, and the cults of the \"high places\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21062612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21062612", "title": "The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution", "text": "The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution\n\nThe Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence for Evolution is a 2009 book by British biologist Richard Dawkins, which was released on 3 September 2009 in the UK and on 22 September 2009 in the US. It sets out the evidence for biological evolution, and is Dawkins's 10th book, following his best-selling critique of religion \"The God Delusion\" (2006) and \"The Ancestor's Tale\" (2004), which traced human ancestry back to the dawn of life.\n\nThe book is published in the United Kingdom and Commonwealth nations by Transworld, and in the United States by Free Press. In its first week of release, it topped \"The Sunday Times\"' Bestseller list, with more than twice the sales of its nearest competitor. An audiobook version has also been released, read by Dawkins and his wife Lalla Ward.\n\nRichard Dawkins has written a number of books about evolution, beginning with \"The Selfish Gene\" (1976) and \"The Extended Phenotype\" (1982). These he followed with three books that attempted to address common misunderstandings about evolution. His documentary series \"The Genius of Charles Darwin\" looks at Darwin's life and some of the evidence for evolution.\n\nHowever, when he looked back at the work he had published, he felt that he had never comprehensively addressed the evidence of common descent. Dawkins believed that opposition to evolution was as strong as ever, despite the overwhelming, and growing, body of evidence for the theory. He started writing \"The Greatest Show on Earth\" during his final months as Charles Simonyi Professor for the Public Understanding of Science (Marcus du Sautoy now holds the position) and finished it in retirement. He thought that 2009, the bicentennial of Darwin's birth and 150th anniversary of his book \"On the Origin of Species\", was the perfect time for such a work. Other authors have written similar books recently, such as Jerry Coyne's \"Why Evolution is True\" which Dawkins highly recommends.\n\nDawkins's literary agent John Brockman promoted the book to publishers under the working title \"Only a Theory\". However, American biologist Kenneth Miller had already used that title for his own book, \"Only a Theory: Evolution and the Battle for America's Soul\" (2008). He kept \"Only a Theory?\" as the title for the first chapter, \"with a precautionary question mark to guard against creationist quote-mining\". Dawkins got the title from a T-shirt given to him by \"an anonymous well-wisher\" which bears the words \"Evolution: The Greatest Show on Earth; the Only Game in Town\". He wore it occasionally when giving lectures, and realised it was ideal for a title. However, since his editor would not permit such a long title, they shortened it to \"The Greatest Show on Earth\". On three occasions, Dawkins wanted to include new scientific findings that emerged late in the publishing process; despite the disruption, the publisher accommodated them.\n\nDawkins dedicated the book to Josh Timonen, who worked with others to build the website RichardDawkins.net. Dawkins writes in the preface: \"Josh's creative talent runs deep, but the image of the iceberg captures neither the versatile breadth of his contributions to our joint endeavour, nor the warm good humour with which he makes them.\" Dawkins also thanks his wife Lalla's \"unfailing encouragement, helpful stylistic criticisms and characteristically stylish suggestions\", and his friend Charles Simonyi as he signs off after fourteen years and seven books.\n\nThe book is divided into 13 chapters spanning over 400 pages, and includes an appendix called \"The history-deniers\" in the end material.\n\n\nThe book received mixed to positive critical reception on its release. Writing in \"The Times\", Anjana Ahuja described Dawkins's account of the evidence for evolution as \"fine, lucid and convincing\". Though she criticised him for aggrandising the role of Islam in the spread of creationism and suggested that his writing style is unlikely to persuade disbelievers, Ahuja described these as merely \"quibbles\" and recommended the book to all readers. \"The Economist\" also featured a favourable review, praising Dawkins's writing style as \"persuasive\" and lauding its educational value. Mark Fisher in \"The List\" called Dawkins a \"compelling communicator\", adding that the book was \"illuminating\" and praising the use of humorous anecdotes throughout. \"The Sunday Telegraph\" awarded it \"Book of the Week\", with reviewer Simon Ings describing Dawkins as a \"master of scientific clarity and wit\". Although Ings felt that anger had interfered with Dawkins's creativity to an extent, he also praised sections of the book as \"magical\" and \"visceral\", concluding that there was a \"timeless merit\" to the overall theme.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reviewer Nicholas Wade, while praising the work overall, criticised Dawkins's assertion that evolution can be treated as an undeniable fact and asserted that Dawkins's insistence that it is a fact makes him as dogmatic as his opponents. Moreover, characterising his opponents as \"history-deniers,\" \"worse than ignorant\" and \"deluded to the point of perversity\" Wade asserts, \"is not the language of science, or civility.\" Wade sees both Dawkins and his creationist opponents as wrong. Wade's review was subsequently criticised in numerous letters to \"The New York Times\". In one, Daniel Dennett asserted that creationism deserves as much respect as believing that the world is flat. Another letter, from Philip Kitcher, Professor of Philosophy at Columbia University, asserted that evolution and other scientific findings \"are so well supported that they count as facts\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28394185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28394185", "title": "The Religion of India: The Sociology of Hinduism and Buddhism", "text": "The Religion of India: The Sociology of Hinduism and Buddhism\n\nThe Religion of India: The Sociology of Hinduism and Buddhism is a book on the sociology of religion written by Max Weber, a German economist and sociologist of the early twentieth century. The original edition was in German under the title Hinduismus und Buddhismus and published in 1916. An English translation was made in 1958 and several editions have been released since then.\n\nIt was his third major work on the sociology of religion, after \"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\" and \"\". In this work he deals with the structure of Indian society, with the orthodox doctrines of Hinduism and the heterodox doctrines of Buddhism, with the changes wrought by popular religiosity and their influence on the secular ethic of Indian society.\n\nThe Indian social system was influenced by the concept of varna. Varna is not caste and caste is not Varna. This is a critical difference not understood by many. It directly linked religious belief and the segregation of society into status groups. Weber goes on to describe the Varna system (the Brahmins - priests, the Kshatriyas - warriors, the Vaishyas - merchants, the Shudras - laborers and the Untouchable).\n\nWeber pays special attention to Brahmins and considers why they occupied the highest place in Indian society for many centuries. With regards to the concept of dharma he concludes that the Indian ethical pluralism is very different both from the universal ethic of Confucianism and Christianity. He notes that the varna system prevented the development of urban status groups.\n\nAfter the structure of the society, Weber analysed the Hindu religious beliefs - ascetism and the Hindu view of the world, the Brahman orthodox doctrines, the rise and fall of Buddhism in India, the Hindu restoration and the evolution of guru.\n\nWeber discussed what influence Hinduism and Buddhism had on the mundane activities, and how they impacted the economy. He noted the idea of unchanging world order consisting of the eternal cycles of rebirth, and the deprecation of mundane world. By the traditionalism of the Varna system supported by the dharma, the economic development is slowed as, - according to Weber - the \"spirit\" of the varna system worked against the development of capitalism.\n\nWeber ended his research of society and religion in India by bringing in insights from to discuss similarities of the Asian belief systems. He notes that the beliefs saw the meaning of life as otherworldy mystical experience. The social world is fundamentally divided between the educated elite, following the guidance of a prophet or wise man, and the uneducated masses whose beliefs are centered on magic. In Asia, there was no Messianic prophecy to \"plan and meaning to the everyday life of educated and uneducated alike\". Weber juxtaposed such Messianic prophecies, notably from the Near East region to those found on the Asiatic mainland, focusing more on exemplary ways to live one's life. It was those differences that prevented the countries of the Occident from following the paths of the earlier Chinese and Indian civilizations. His next work, Ancient Judaism was an attempt to prove this theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "9095056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9095056", "title": "Thomas Yellowtail", "text": "Thomas Yellowtail\n\nThomas Yellowtail (March 7, 1903 - November 24, 1993) was a Medicine Man and Sun Dance chief of the Crow tribe for over thirty years prior to his death. Thomas Yellowtail's adult life was dedicated to the adherence to, and preservation of, the Sun Dance religion.\n\nThomas Yellowtail was born just south of Lodge Grass, Montana, on the Crow Indian reservation. His father's name was Hawk with the Yellow Tail Feathers. It was the practice at the time for the U.S. Government to assign surnames to the Indians as a means of assimilating them into the white culture and to ease record keeping. Thus, the child of Hawk with the Yellow Tail Feathers and his wife was given the last name Yellowtail. In Yellowtail’s younger days, the old, great warriors who participated in the Plains Wars and had lived the traditional nomadic life of their people were still living, although they had been forced onto the reservations. Yellowtail often recalled seeing the old warriors as they sat around the camp fires and performed sacred ceremonies.\n\nThe Lodge Grass valley was called the \"Valley of the Chiefs\" because of all the great war chiefs who lived there in Yellowtail’s early years. When he was only six years old, Yellowtail received a great honor when one of the Crow Nation’s most famous chiefs, Medicine Crow, gave Yellowtail his Indian name, Medicine Rock Chief. Receiving a name from such a famous chief was all the more significant as the name came from Chief Medicine Crow's personal spiritual medicine. Yellowtail’s youth was shaped by these elders who had lived the traditional nomadic life. These “old timers” as Yellowtail called them, taught him to know and to love the traditional spirituality of his ancestors. Yellowtail’s character was shaped by those traditional elders and he often said that it is those same traditional spiritual values which should be at the center of our lives today. \nIn contrast, the United States Government tried to crush the Indian’s ancestral traditions. Various laws (United States Secretary of the Interior's order of 1884) prohibited many traditional ceremonies, such as the Sun Dance for almost 50 years. During this same time, the reservation children, including Yellowtail, were taken from their homes and forced into government boarding schools. At those boarding schools the children were forbidden to speak their own language, had to wear white man's clothing and cut their hair.\n\nSimultaneously, almost every Christian denomination opened churches on or near the reservations and actively tried to convert the Indians away from their own traditions. On the Crow reservation each family was arbitrarily assigned to become a member of one of the churches.\n\nThomas Yellowtail married Susie Walking Bear, of the Crow tribe, on April 27, 1929. Susie was a tireless advocate of Native American issues and is already enshrined in the Montana Hall of Fame in Helena, Montana. Susie was a steady companion and constant support to Yellowtail in his years of sacrifice and struggle to help his people until her death in 1981.\n\nHistorically, the Yellowtail family is the most famous Crow family of the twentieth century. His older brother, Robert Yellowtail, was the first Native American superintendent of a reservation and was selected as Commissioner of Indian Affairs by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, and although he declined the appointment, Yellowtail Dam and Yellowtail Reservoir in Montana are named after him.\n\nThe Crow tribe did not perform their ancestral Sun Dance during the fifty year prohibition by the U.S. Government. When the Sun Dance became legal again in 1934, the original Crow Sun Dance was a forgotten memory and could not be resurrected. The Shoshone tribe had periodically performed their ancestral Sun Dance during the prohibition without the knowledge of the bureaucracy in Washington. When the prohibition ended, John Trehero, a Shoshone medicine man, emerged as the preeminent Shoshone Sun Dance chief. The Crow tribe asked John Trehero to help them lead a Sun Dance on the Crow Reservation in the early 1940s. This was the beginning of the revival of the Sun Dance on the Crow Reservation.\n\nStarting in 1943, Thomas Yellowtail became a sincere Sun Dancer, participating in the annual Sun Dance and monthly prayer meetings. Over the next twenty years, Yellowtail deepened his relationship with the Great Spirit through his daily practice of prayer, purification in the sweat lodge and periodic vision quests.\n\nIn 1963, John Trehero informed Yellowtail that his Medicine Fathers had instructed him to transfer the authority to run the Crow Sun Dance over to Yellowtail. For the next thirty years, until his death at age 90, Yellowtail served as Crow Sun Dance chief and helped perpetuate the Crow Sun Dance Religion. At the time of his death in November, 1993, Thomas Yellowtail was one of the most respected and revered Sun Dance chiefs and Medicine Men of the Crow tribe.\n\nYellowtail wanted every American Indian to learn about the spiritual traditions of their ancestors. While many of those traditions have been lost, Yellowtail believed that what remains is sufficient to constitute a valid spiritual path - what he called the Sun Dance Religion. Yellowtail counseled the Native Americans who sought his guidance to follow the way of the Vision Quest, sweat lodge, and Daily Prayer with the Pipe under the guidance of a legitimate Sun Dance Chief. He encouraged American Indian youth to learn the language of their tribe and to seek out the spiritual leaders who followed the traditional ceremonies of their people. Thomas Yellowtail wrote his autobiography as a means of preserving the ancient spiritual traditions he held sacred for future generations.\n\nThomas Yellowtail was a member of that pivotal generation that made the wrenching cultural transition into a new and bewildering world, while never forgetting the old ways. He, and many others across the plains tribes, held fast to the spiritual legacy of their ancestors, insuring that the ways of his Grandfathers would not be lost.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19812222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19812222", "title": "Torah Aura Productions", "text": "Torah Aura Productions\n\nTorah Aura Productions is a Jewish educational publishing company based in Los Angeles, California. It was founded in 1981. The company's main focus is on publishing educational materials (mostly classroom books) for Reform, Conservative, Reconstructionist and unaffiliated Jewish synagogue schools in North America.\n\n“Torah Aura Productions has been founded by a group of Jewish educators, artists, and technicians as a vehicle to enhance the creation of unique and experimental Jewish products and to provide support for those involved in the creative process. We therefore seek to operate with Jewish values committing ourselves to both the prophets and to profit.” \n\nTorah Aura Productions is a cooperative Jewish communications group that specializes in the creation of high-quality educational materials for Jewish classrooms. It is owned and operated by Jane Golub, Joel Grishaver, and Alan Rowe.\n\nJane, Joel and Alan were brought together when they were on the staff of a Jewish educational camp. All of them are successful products of individually diverse Jewish educations, yet all of them felt ambivalent about their Jewish educational experiences. That ambivalence motivated them to further their Jewish learning, to work in Jewish education, and to ultimately come to produce Jewish educational materials.\n\nThe actual “creation myth” of Torah Aura Productions goes like this:\n\nIn 1981 Alan was running the family business during the week and the P.A. system at the Brandeis-Bardin Institute on weekends. Jane was thinking about a new graduate school, and Joel was free-lancing and tending bar to pay the rent. All of them had worked together at Camp Alonim. Then, everything changed.\n\nJoel had a contract to design a slide show for the Los Angeles Hebrew High School. His car was broken into, the art work stolen, and the deadline was rushing up. Meanwhile, Jane was house-sitting. Joel, Alan, and some other camp friends moved into Jane’s borrowed house and turned it into an animation factory. The end product (finished less than an hour before show time) was The True Story of Hanukkah. Within a few weeks, they were sitting around Alan’s dining room table, creating a new kind of Jewish educational company.\n\n\nTorah Aura was founded with a basic vision. According to the owners:\nWe knew what we wanted to do. We had an idea of what constituted “a good Jewish education,” and we knew the role we believed a publisher should play. Over the next several months we will be sharing those conceptions with you, not to so much for the purpose of selling books, but to facilitate a national dialogue on core issues. We want to hear from you. We want you to demand that other purveyors of educational Judaica make their assumptions and design philosophies equally clear. And, as we work week by week, topic by topic, we want you to think about the way you articulate your school curriculum.\n\nWhen speaking about their curricular vision, owners and employees of the company usually start by explaining that the purpose of their curricular materials is to save the Jewish people.\n\nThe statement may sound like a truism or cliche, but Torah Aura takes it very seriously. They say that it means they believe that students need enough Judaica – and the right Judaica – to build a Jewish future. Torah Aura's observation is that many to most Jews are not taught enough Judaism and to survive as Jews.\nFor a supplemental school to succeed, it needs to offer a real Jewish foundation. Facts are not a foundation. Concepts are. Feelings are important. They are necessary but not sufficient. Being able to name the objects used on Sukkot doesn’t lead to the building of a personal Sukkah. The ability to perform prayers from the Siddur is an enabling skill, but not one that alone will lead students as they grow to use services as moments of personal connection with the divine.\nAccording to Torah Aura, Jewish schools spend a lot of time on Bible stories, but nowhere near enough on developing the skills of extracting meaning from the biblical text. To survive as a Jew, to care to survive as a Jew, one needs a web of understandings and conceptual tools. Torah Aura was created to produce tools that make the “meanings” of Judaism accessible.\n\nAccording to Torah Aura (especially co-owner Joel Grishaver), the second thing that leads to Jewish survival is connection to community. The simple truth is that Jews who need other Jews are more likely to seek out Jewish connections than those who have just enjoyed some Jewish activities. This is why anyone in the Jewish schooling business pushes camps and youth groups as companion experiences. And, it is why anyone who understands the simplest secret looks to make their classrooms into communities with interdependent learning as a major modality. Equally true, the relationship between teacher and student is critical. It has redemptive possibilities. Because of Torah Aura's belief in community, most of their material (and all of their teacher’s guides) recommend work in hevrutot (learning dyads or small groups) and set up situations where students and teachers share in significant conversations.\n\nMost of all, Torah Aura believes that no matter what kind of instruction its owners and employees envision, its reality will be in the hands of teacher and class as they interact. Real curriculum isn’t planned, it is actualized. No good lesson should ever happen exactly the same way twice. It is an amalgam of teacher, students, and the moment. For that reason, Torah Aura Productions sees themselves as creating educational tools, resources out of which good teaching moments and good teaching sequences can be built. They explain that they \"strive to empower the teacher with challenging resources that lead them towards creating good Jewish educational experiences.\"\n\nThis is the way we work. First we map out “the structure of the discipline.” This is a list or chart of the things that we believe an adult Jew needs in order to “choose Jewish life.” For example, when we teach values, we look at the resources needed to encourage adults to turn to Jewish resources when then face a real life ethical dilemma. We then take this map of the discipline and look at the scope and range of instructional opportunities in the course of a Jewish education. Will this fit into pre-school? Can we expect it to be included in high school or as part of adult education? Does it fit into a family context? Etc. We then match up the instructional opportunities with the developmental realities. We look to see which part of our map of the discipline can be introduced at each age opportunity. We consider our work experimental and always define it as “work-in-progress.” We have been known to redo a work two or three times, using the laboratory of the market place as a source of feedback. We have always believed that we create tools for Jewish education, that teachers are the ones who turn them into educational experiences. Our work has always been a dialogue between experimental designs and practical applications. We are constantly envisioning new techniques and models and then testing them by the reaction of classroom masters.\n\nTorah Aura Productions has published hundreds of curricular books for school-aged children, including:\n\nTorah Aura has also published many books for supplementary school teachers, Jewish educators, and other Jewish educational leaders. This list includes:\n\nTorah Aura has become well known for publishing sets of educational materials called \"Instant Lessons.\" These are packs of student materials on a single topic meant to provide the teacher with what he or she needs for a single class session.\n\nOver the years, Torah Aura has published a variety of weekly, bi-weekly, and monthly newsletters for students and teachers.\n\n"}
{"id": "16256812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16256812", "title": "Tōxcatl", "text": "Tōxcatl\n\nToxcatl () was the name of the fifth twenty-day month or \"veintena\" of the Aztec calendar which lasted from approximately the 5th to 22 May and of the festival which was held every year in this month. The Festival of Toxcatl was dedicated to the god Tezcatlipoca and featured the sacrifice of a young man who had been impersonating the deity for a full year. \n\nThe Toxcatl Massacre, a turning point in the Spanish conquest of Mexico, occurred when the Spaniards who were tolerated as guests in Tenochtitlan attacked and massacred the unprepared Aztecs during the celebration of Toxcatl. This caused the outbreak of open hostilities between the Aztecs and Spaniards, and during the Noche Triste a few weeks later the Spaniards fled the city.\n\nThe Aztec calendar was composed of two separate cycles—one of 260 days called the \"tonalpohualli\" (day count) and one of 365 days called the \"xiuhpohualli\" (year count). \n\nThe 365-day xiuhpohualli consisted of 18 twenty-day \"months\" (or \"veintenas\"), plus an additional 5 days at the end of the year. Some descriptions of the Aztec calendar state that it also included a leap day which allowed the calendar cycle to remain aligned with the same agrarian cycles year after year. But other descriptions state that the leap year was unknown to the Aztecs and that the correlation of the months to the astronomical year would change over time. \n\nIn any case, from the descriptions of Spanish conquistadors who witnessed the celebration of Toxcatl in 1521 we know that in that year the feast fell in our month of May.\n\nAccording to Fray Diego Durán the name \"Toxcatl\" derives from the Nahuatl verb \"toxcahuia\" meaning \"wither from thirst\". Toxcatl then means \"drought\". Many other meanings have since been proposed for the name - many having to do with the necklaces of grilled maize that were worn by the revellers during the festivities. The Aztecs also used the name \"Tepopochtli\" (smoking or fumigation) to refer to the month of Toxcatl. The name of the corresponding month in other Mesoamerican cultures often have to do with smoke, steam or clouds. The Otomi word for the feast was \"Atzbhipi\", \"bhipi\" meaning smoke. The Kaqchikel name was \"Cibixic\", meaning \"cloudy smoke\". The Matlatzinca word for the feast however was \"Unditini\" meaning \"we are going to grill maize\".\n\nThe rituals which the Aztecs carried out during the feast of Toxcatl are described by Bernardino de Sahagún in the Florentine Codex, in Fray Duráns description of the gods and rites, and in the chronicle of Juan Bautista Pomar. \n\nThe most important part of the Toxcatl ritual was the sacrifice of a young man who had been impersonating Tezcatlipoca since the last Toxcatl festival, and the selection of a new man to take that role in the year to come. \n\nThe youth chosen to be the \"ixiptlatli\" (impersonator) of Tezcatlipoca was normally a war captive. He was taught courtly speech, singing and to play the flute. Throughout the year he would parade in the streets of Tenochtitlan and be treated with great reverence. His skin was painted black except for a ribbon across his eyes, he was dressed in precious jewellery and cotton embroidered clothes. He wore a snail-shell lip pendant, eagle down headdress, turquoise bracelets and golden bells on his ankles. \n\nHe walked about the city playing the flute, smoking tobacco and smelling flowers, and people would salute him as the living image of the god. At the building called \"Quauhxicalco\" he would sometimes burn copal incense and play his flute. Several times during the year he would meet with the Aztec ruler, the \"tlatoani\", who would ritually adorn him. In the month of Huey Tozoztli which preceded Toxcatl, he would be ritually wed to four maidens who impersonated the goddesses Xochiquetzal, Xilonen, Atlatonan and Huixtocihuatl, and he lived with them for twenty days. Four days before the main ceremony the tlatoani secluded himself in his palace and the Tezcatlipoca impersonator and his four wives paraded through the city. On the fifth day they travelled by canoe to a place called Acaquilpan, here he was left to himself by his wives near the temple \"Tlacochcalco\" (\"In the House of Darts\"). He then freely walked up the stairs of the pyramid, breaking a flute on each step. At the summit the priests would lay him on a sacrificial stone, open his chest with an obsidian dagger, and remove his heart. He was beheaded and his skull was placed on the tzompantli (skull rack), his body was flayed and his flesh was distributed among the nobles of the city and eaten. The warcaptive who was to be the next impersonator of Tezcatlipoca also took part in the flesh and probably also wore the skin of his predecessor. \n\nDuring the feast other deity impersonators were also sacrificed. Offerings of food, flowers and paper banners were made throughout the festival, and as the offerings were presented the people danced the \"Leap of Toxcatl\". Men would also perform the dance of \"the Serpent\", and the women a dance named \"Grilled Corn\". During these dances there would be kissing and playing between men and women. After the dances the participants were ritually scarred by the priests of Tezcatlipoca (the \"tlatlacanahualtin\").\n\nEduard Seler saw the Toxcatl ritual as symbol of the change of season represented as the death and rebirth of Tezcatlipoca. He likens Toxcatl to its K'iche' Maya equivalent, the feast of Jun Raqan, which is the celebration of the new year. Michel Graulich, who advocates a different calendrical correlation, places Toxcatl in the fall and sees the festival as a harvest feast celebrating the abundance of maize. Olivier (2003) stresses the importance of the actions of the \"tlatoani\" in the ritual and sees the feast as a way for the ruler to offer a worthy sacrifice to the lord of rulership, Tezcatlipoca.\n\n"}
{"id": "5083475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5083475", "title": "Vagdavercustis", "text": "Vagdavercustis\n\nThe goddess Vagdavercustis is known from a dedicatory inscription on an altar found at Cologne (Köln), Germany. The stone dates from around the 2nd century CE and is now in a museum in Cologne. \n\nThe inscription appears on the front of the altar above a carved relief of five male figures carrying out a ritual. The officiant in the center is wearing a toga and has his head covered \"(capite velato)\". He extends his hand toward an altar in order to burn incense, a box of which is held by a boy to the left. Behind them is an aulos-player, whose music would be intended to \"drown out inauspicious noises.\" The figure between the aulist and the officiant is worn and reveals little. The fifth, to the far right, is bearded and wearing a garment that is not a toga; he carries something slung over his right shoulder.\n\nThe inscription reads as follows:\n\nRoughly translated into English, the inscription can be read as: \n\nThe altar was dedicated by a Roman citizen, and the iconography is that of a traditional Roman sacrifice, but Vagdavercustis was most likely a native Germanic or Celtic goddess. It was not unusual, and perhaps even customary, for Roman officials in the provinces to honor local gods as a way to maintain local goodwill. There is some evidence that Vagdavercustis was worshipped by the Batavians (a Germanic tribe reported by Tacitus to have lived around the Rhine delta, in the area that is currently the Netherlands) in the region between the present-day Netherlands and Cologne (Köln).\n\nThe paucity of evidence pertaining to Vagdavercustis has led to abundant interpretations of her significance. Trees are depicted on the side panels of the altar, suggesting a vegetative function. She may be related to Virtus, the Roman god of military virtue. Since she occurs only at Cologne, she may be a localized deity of place. The name has been taken to mean \"protectress of war dancers,\" with Vagdavercustis characterized as a war goddess.\n\n"}
{"id": "3573265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3573265", "title": "World Religions (TV series)", "text": "World Religions (TV series)\n\nWorld Religions is an educational television show which was produced and broadcast by TVOntario (known at the time as the Ontario Educational Communications Authority) in 1973. The show was based on the theological book, \"The World's Religions\", written by Huston Smith.\n\nThe three episode names known are:\n\nAll episodes were 30 minutes in length.\n"}
{"id": "6209285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6209285", "title": "Youth ministry", "text": "Youth ministry\n\nYouth Ministry, also commonly referred to as youth group, is an age-specific religious ministry. Faith groups or other religious organizations carry out youth ministry to involve and engage with young people who attend their places of worship, or who live in their community. Christian youth ministry usually encompasses one or more of the following:\n\nAs well as organizing events and activities, youth ministry will usually include some form of religious instruction and pastoral oversight of young people.\n\nIn Protestant churches, the term \"ministry\" often implies the service of an ordained minister or pastor. In youth ministry, however, this is not always the case — a youth ministry leader may be an ordained member of the clergy, an employed lay person, or a volunteer. Titles applied to youth ministry leaders vary widely as well, even within denominations, using terms such as \"Youth Minister\", \"Youth Pastor\", or simply \"Youth Worker\".\n\nCatholic youth work covers a worldwide range of activities carried out with young people, usually in the name of the Catholic Church and with the intention of imparting the Catholic faith to them and inviting them to practice and live out the faith in their lives. Activities in the field range from small scale youth groups attached to parishes or Catholic schools, to large international gatherings, such as World Youth Day. It is a field which has evolved much over recent decades, especially in comparison to more formal methods of education or catechesis within the church. Nearly all dioceses and a great deal of parishes have some form of youth provision running, although a great deal of areas particularly in the developed world are finding youth work both more difficult and rare as the numbers of young people regularly practicing the Catholic faith continue to decline. In contrast, though, the new and exciting developments of recent decades and particularly the influence of the new movements within the church are ensuring that youth work continues to be an active and fruitful field.\n\nUnlike the case in some Protestant churches, a youth minister in the Roman Catholic Church is not a member of the clergy. Ministry, including youth ministry, is considered one of the functions within the Church because most believe that people should start learning about God at a young age so they have more time to grow spiritually through adulthood. Therefore, it is more likely for a Catholic youth minister or youth ministry leader to be a lay person, rather than an ordained priest.\n\nThere are organizations within the Unitarian Universalist Association (the primary organization of Unitarian Universalist congregations in the United States), as well as within the Canadian Unitarian Council (the national body for Unitarian Universalist congregations in Canada), which minister to and with youth, of which Young Religious Unitarian Universalists (YRUU) is the largest and most apparent. YRUU strongly emphasizes youth empowerment, along with youth-adult partnership. There are also specific youth-oriented programs, such as Coming of Age, and Our Whole Lives, a lifespan sexuality education program with a youth age group.\n\nYouth ministers may be trained in an education specifically to work with youth. Many Bible and Christian universities and colleges now offer undergraduate and graduate degrees in youth ministry. While youth ministry was previously considered a stepping stone on the way to becoming priests, nuns and other important vocations, the trend is currently moving toward treating it as its own vocation. Most congregations or places of worship have a strict vetting process for their youth ministers, including but not limited to background checks, educational requirements and previous relevant experience.\n\n\n"}
