{"id": "14807319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14807319", "title": "1693 Sicily earthquake", "text": "1693 Sicily earthquake\n\nThe 1693 Sicily earthquake struck parts of southern Italy near Sicily, Calabria, and Malta on January 11 at around 21:00 local time. This earthquake was preceded by a damaging foreshock on January 9. The main quake had an estimated magnitude of 7.4 on the moment magnitude scale, the most powerful in Italian history, and a maximum intensity of XI (\"Extreme\") on the Mercalli intensity scale, destroying at least 70 towns and cities, seriously affecting an area of and causing the death of about 60,000 people. The earthquake was followed by tsunamis that devastated the coastal villages on the Ionian Sea and in the Straits of Messina. Almost two thirds of the entire population of Catania were killed. The epicentre of the disaster was probably close to the coast, possibly offshore, although the exact position remains unknown. The extent and degree of destruction caused by the earthquake resulted in extensive rebuilding of the towns and cities of southeastern Sicily, particularly the Val di Noto, in a homogeneous late Baroque style, described as \"the culmination and final flowering of Baroque art in Europe\".\n\nAccording to a contemporary account of the earthquake by Vincentius Bonajutus, published in the \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\", \"It was in this country impossible to keep upon our legs, or in one place on the dancing Earth; nay, those that lay along on the ground, were tossed from side to side, as if on a rolling billow.\"\n\nSicily lies on part of the complex convergent boundary where the African Plate is subducting beneath the Eurasian Plate. This subduction zone is responsible for the formation of the stratovolcano Mount Etna and considerable seismic activity. Most damaging earthquakes however, occur on the Siculo-Calabrian rift zone. This zone of extensional faulting runs for about , forming three main segments through Calabria, along the east coast of Sicily and immediately offshore, and finally forming the southeastern margin of the Hyblaean Plateau. Faults in the Calabrian segment were responsible for the 1783 Calabrian earthquakes sequence.\n\nIn the southern part of the eastern coast of Sicily, investigations have identified a series of active normal faults, dipping to the east. Most of these lie offshore and some control basins that contain large thicknesses of Quaternary sediments. The two largest faults, known as the western and eastern master faults, border half-grabens with fills of up to and respectively. Onshore, two ages of faulting have been recognised, an earlier phase trending NW-SE and a later phase trending SSW-NNE that clearly offsets the first group, including the Avola fault and the Rosolini-Ispica fault system.\n\nA destructive earthquake occurred two days before the mainshock at 21:00 local time, centered in the Val di Noto. It had an estimated magnitude of 6.2 and a maximum perceived intensity of VIII–XI on the Mercalli intensity scale. Intensities of VIII or higher have been estimated for Augusta, Avola Vecchia, Floridia, Melilli, Noto Antica, Catania, Francofonte, Lentini, Scicli, Sortino and Vizzini. Augusta lies well outside the main zone of severe shaking; its extensive damage is probably due to its construction on unconsolidated sediments.\n\nFrom the shape and location of the area of maximum damage, this earthquake is thought to have been caused by movement on the Avola fault.\n\nThe earthquake lasted for four minutes, according to contemporary accounts. The estimated magnitude of 7.4 is taken from the extent and degree of the recorded damage, with a very large area that reached X (\"Extreme\") or more on the Mercalli scale. The maximum shaking reached XI in the towns of Buscemi, Floridia, Melilli, Occhiola and Sortino.\n\nThe source of the January 11 earthquake is debated. Some catalogues give an onshore epicentre without any direct association with a known structure, while others propose that the source was offshore due to the associated tsunami, involving either rupture along a normal fault, part of the Siculo-Calabrian rift zone, or rupture along the subduction zone beneath the Ionian Sea. An analysis of the distribution of tsunami run-ups along the coast suggests that a submarine landslide triggered by the earthquake is the most likely source, in which case the tsunami provides no constraint on the epicenter. A landslide origin is supported by the observation of possible landslide bodies along the Hyblean-Malta escarpment.\n\nHistoric documents in the Archivo General de Simancas mention dozens of aftershocks, some as late as August 1694, and some reportedly as strong as the initial quake of January 11, 1693. Aftershocks continued until at least 1696, with their effects concentrated in towns along the coast, supporting an epicenter either near the coast or offshore.\n\nThe tsunami triggered by the earthquake affected most of the Ionian Sea coast of Sicily, about in all. The first thing that was noted at all localities affected was a withdrawal of the sea. The strongest effects were concentrated around Augusta, where the initial withdrawal left the harbour dry, followed by a wave of at least height, possibly as much as , that inundated part of the town. The maximum inundation of about was recorded at Mascali.\n\nTsunami deposits linked to the 1693 tsunami have been found both onshore and offshore. At Ognina, just south of Syracuse, at the head of a ria, a sequence containing several coarse clastic layers has been found, inconsistent with its lagoonal setting. The uppermost coarse layer, which has a strongly erosive base, consists of coarse sand with up to granule size clasts. The layer has been dated as 17th to 18th century based on pottery shards and one well-preserved clay pipe, consistent with the 1693 tsunami. Offshore from Augusta, a sequence identified using chirp sonar data was sampled with a gravity core in of water. Following detailed analysis of both grain size and foraminifera assemblages, eleven possible high-energy events were found based on the presence of large numbers of shallow water forams combined with a greater proportion of fine sand in the same interval. The uppermost two events correlate well with the tsunamis from the 1908 Messina earthquake and the 1693 earthquake.\n\nAlthough there are reports of an eruption at the time of the earthquake, most sources suggest that the volcano had been inactive since the destructive eruption of 1669. Analysis of the relationship between eruptions and earthquakes has found that earthquakes are followed by long periods without activity in the 'rift zones' that extend out to north and south from the summit. Estimates of Coulomb stress transfer due to the dyke intrusion in the rift zones associated with the 1669 eruption, suggest that this could have helped to trigger the 1693 earthquake, by increasing stress levels on the faults.\n\nDespite the difficulty of separating the effects of this event from the mainshock, some information is available. This earthquake caused widespread damage, particularly in Augusta where almost half of the houses were destroyed. Most of the buildings in two districts of Avola collapsed and many buildings were also destroyed in Noto, Floridia, Lentini and Mellili. Some buildings collapsed in Catania, Vizzini and Sortini. There were an estimated 200 deaths in both Augusta and Noto.\n\nThe area of severe damage covered most of southeastern Sicily, an area of about , including all the present provinces of Catania, Ragusa and Syracuse. At least 70 cities, towns and villages were devastated, with some examples of at least partial building collapse as far afield as Messina, Agrigento, Palermo, Reggio Calabria and Malta.\n\nThe earthquake also triggered large landslides, such as at Noto Antica and Sortino, and in one case a large rock-slide dammed a stream, forming a lake a few kilometres long. Several large NW-SE trending fractures were created up to long and wide, on the plains just south of Catania. In the same area, sand volcanoes were formed by jets of water spurting as much as several metres into the air, with similar phenomena being reported from the Lentini plain and along some river valleys.\n\nAt Augusta the tsunami damaged galleys of the Knights of Malta that were anchored in the harbour when they were grounded during the initial withdrawal of the sea.\n\nThe number of deaths recorded at the time in official sources were about 12,000 in Catania (63% of the population), 5,045 in Ragusa (51%), 3,500 in Syracuse (23%) 3,000 in Noto (25%), 1,840 in Augusta (30%) and 3,400 in Modica (19%). The total death toll in the same source was recorded as 54,000 with other sources referring to totals of about 60,000. In 1853, Mallet recorded 93,000 deaths, in his catalogue of earthquakes.\n\nSicily was at the time ruled as part of the Crown of Aragon by the Kings of Spain. The Viceroy in Madrid, the Duke of Uzeda, reacted by appointing Giuseppe Lanza, the Duke of Camastra, and the Prince of Aragon as Vicars General for the Val Demone and Val di Noto regions of Sicily respectively. Due to illness, both the Prince of Aragon and his replacement the bishop of Syracuse were unable to take up the position of Vicar General for Val di Noto and the Duke of Camastra was forced to take on the responsibility for both areas. Camastra already had considerable experience as an administrator, having served in a number of senior military and judicial positions. The Viceroy also appointed three generals as commissioners in order to organise the immediate relief efforts in the worst affected cities. One of the Duke of Camastra's first acts was to temporarily exempt the worst affected areas from taxes. Amongst other administrators sent to the damaged area was Colonel Don Carlos de Grunenbergh, Royal Engineer to the King of Spain, who had experience in planning and building fortifications.\n\nIn Palermo, the Viceroy formed two councils, a civil one made up of nobles, and another that was ecclesiastical, made up of senior church officials. They were directed to meet twice weekly, and were charged with the drawing up of plans for the reconstruction of the worst affected towns and cities.\n\nThe initial reconstruction efforts concentrated on restoring the military defences of Syracuse, Augusta, Catania and Acireale, due to their strategic importance. The reconstruction plans were of three types: move the town to a new site, rebuild at the same site with a completely new town plan or rebuild using the existing town plan. Examples of towns that fell in the first category were Avola and Noto, their former locations now being known as Avola Antica and Noto Antica. Catania is an example of a city that was rebuilt on the same site to a new plan, while adapting some of the existing structures. Syracuse is an example of a city rebuilt entirely to its existing plan. Ragusa was partly rebuilt on its old site to the medieval plan (\"Ragusa Ibla\") and partly on a new, but neighbouring site, to a 'modern' plan (\"Ragusa Superiore\").\n\nThe degree and extent of the damage caused by the earthquake prompted an architectural revival in the towns of Sicily and Malta, a style that has become known as Sicilian Baroque. At this time many of the palazzi, public buildings, cathedrals and churches were reconstructed in this style. Towns that suffered serious damage from the earthquake in which many of their structures were rebuilt, include Syracuse, Ragusa, Catania, Caltagirone, Palazzolo Acreide, Modica, Comiso, Scicli and Mdina on Malta. Many of these towns now form part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site \"Late Baroque Towns of the Val di Noto (South-Eastern Sicily)\", inscribed in 1992, referring to the \"exceptional quality\" of the region's art and architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "1979417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979417", "title": "A354 road", "text": "A354 road\n\nThe A354 is a primary route in England which runs from Salisbury in Wiltshire to Easton on the Isle of Portland in Dorset, a total distance of . From Salisbury the road crosses Cranborne Chase and briefly merges with the A350 at the Blandford Forum bypass before crossing the Dorset Downs and merging with the A35 at the Puddletown bypass. to the west it splits from the Dorchester bypass and runs south. The road now bypasses Upwey and Broadwey on a new section of road which has some 2 lane sections going north and 1 lane continuously going south towards Weymouth. After the old and new sections meet at Manor Roundabout the road follows down Weymouth Way alongside Radipole Lake. The final stretch runs across a short bridge over Chesil beach onto Portland.\n\nThe project was to build a single carriageway road, with crawler lane along part, linking the A354 Manor Roundabout near Radipole to the A354 at the top of the Ridgeway Hill.\nThe main carriageway of the Weymouth Relief Road opened on Thursday 17 March 2011.\n\nThe 2012 Olympics at Portland played a major factor in making £89m funding for the road available.\n\n1983 - The Dorset Structure Plan proposed to construct the A354 Weymouth, Ridgeway to Mount Pleasant improvement as a primary route.\n\nDecember 1987 to April 1988 - a public inquiry was held into proposals for development in the Lorton area which included a new single-carriageway route running from Mount Pleasant to Littlemoor. These proposals were refused consent by the Secretary of State.\n\nBetween 1989 and 1992 - various studies and consultation exercises undertaken into alternative route options and alignments for a dual carriageway road between the Ridgeway and north Weymouth.\n\n1992 - work on a planning application and Environmental Statement for this scheme began.\n\nJuly 1994 - a dual carriageway road along the alignment was granted planning permission.\n\n1996 - A public inquiry into the Compulsory Purchase and Side Road Orders was held. The Secretary of State approved these orders. However, work on the scheme was never started as, following a Government review of road construction, the funding for the scheme was not forthcoming. The planning permission lapsed after 5 years.\n\nFollowing the lapse of permission Dorset County Council undertook a review of the previously consented scheme. The previous dual carriageway route was rejected in light of changing policy guidance, developments within the area of the proposed route and new information about the ecological value of areas along the route.\n\nA new preferred route for a single carriageway road was identified, running from Manor Roundabout alongside the eastern side of the Weymouth/Dorchester railway to Littlemoor, through Littlemoor and then parallel with the alignment of the railway to the Ridgeway (often referred to as the Orange Route).\n\nDecember 2003 - the Government Office of the South West confirmed that this scheme was 'Provisionally Accepted', subject to completion of all relevant statutory processes and final approval of Ministers.\n\nSeptember 2005 - a planning application and Environmental Statement for a road along the preferred route was submitted by Dorset County Council. However, the application was not determined as, following its submission and at the request of the planning authority, the council carried out further studies, including an examination of the potential for further reducing the effects on the environment, especially those parts which are nationally designated.\n\nAs a result of the council's re-assessment, changes were made to the September 2005 proposals, primarily to the stretch of road through the AONB.\n\nMarch 2011 - Relief Road was opened\n\n"}
{"id": "209480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209480", "title": "Albert P. Crary", "text": "Albert P. Crary\n\nAlbert Paddock Crary (July 25, 1911 – October 29, 1987), was a pioneer polar geophysicist and glaciologist. He was the first person to have stepped foot on both the North and South Poles, having made it to the North Pole on May 3, 1952 (with Joseph O. Fletcher and William P. Benedict) and then to the South Pole on February 12, 1961, as the leader of a team of eight. The South Pole expedition set out from McMurdo Station on December 10, 1960, using three Snowcats with trailers. Crary was the seventh expedition leader to arrive at the South Pole by surface transportation (the six others before him were—in sequence—Amundsen, Scott, Hillary, Fuchs, a Russian expedition in 1959/60 from Vostok base, and Antero Havola). He was widely admired for his intellect, wit, skills and as a great administrator for polar research expeditions.\n\nCrary was born in 1911 into a farming family in northern New York State. He was the second oldest in a family of 7 children. He was a physics major and geology student at St. Lawrence University in Canton, New York. He graduated in 1931 Phi Beta Kappa from St. Lawrence University and then enrolled at Lehigh University to obtain a master's degree in physics. After spending years completing and facilitating research at both poles, Crary eventually settled in Bethesda, Maryland, with his wife and son.\n\nHis awards included the Cullum Geographical Medal (1959), the Patron's Gold Medal (1963), and the Vega Medal (1972).\n\nHe died on October 29, 1987, at the George Washington University Hospital in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 1991, the National Science Foundation (NSF), which manages the U.S. Antarctic Program (USAP), honoured his memory by dedicating a state-of-the-art laboratory complex in his name, the Albert P. Crary Science and Engineering Center (CSEC) located in McMurdo Station. He was also honored by having the Crary Mountains (76 degrees 48' S, 117 degrees 40' W) and the Crary Ice Rise in Antarctica named for him as well.\n\nDr. Crary contributed in a variety of important ways to his field including:\n\nHe worked with many notable scientists and famous institutions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59148307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59148307", "title": "Azores Plateau", "text": "Azores Plateau\n\nThe Azores Plateau or Azores Platform is an oceanic plateau encompassing the Azores archipelago and the Azores Triple Junction in the North Atlantic Ocean. It was formed by the Azores hotspot 20 million years ago and is still associated with active volcanism.\n\nThe plateau consists of a roughly triangular-shaped large igneous province that lies less than below sea level.\n"}
{"id": "13549227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13549227", "title": "Back lane", "text": "Back lane\n\nA back lane is a roadway often found in a planned medieval village running parallel to the main street at the other end of the Burgage plots. There may be a back lane on each side of the main street which together with the main street itself provide a rectangular framework for the development of the village. Although the burgage plot was used for small scale activities such as livestock or orchards, the back lane frequently divided the village from the main agricultural area - such as the open fields.\n\nThe name frequently survives as a street name in a much enlarged urban settlement (there is an example in Wheldrake), although it is not uncommon for the back lane to be reduced to a narrow pathway.\n\nA back lane, laneway, or alley is also a service, or access road behind houses, or in a commercial district, which was created for deliveries and parking, amongst other things.\n"}
{"id": "8749373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8749373", "title": "Catchment area", "text": "Catchment area\n\nIn human geography, a catchment area is the area from which a city, service or institution attracts a population that uses its services. For example, a school catchment area is the geographic area from which students are eligible to attend a local school.\n\nGovernments and community service organizations often define catchment areas for planning purposes and public safety such as ensuring universal access to services like fire departments, police departments, ambulance bases and hospitals.\n\nCatchment areas are generally established and modified by local governments. These boundaries can be modeled using geographic information systems (GIS). There can be large variability in the services provided within different catchments in the same area depending upon how and when those catchments were established. They are usually contiguous but can overlap when they describe competing services.\n\nCatchments can be defined based upon a number of factors including distance to the facility, actual travel time to the facility, geographic boundaries or population within the catchment. In a distance based catchment, the area serviced will often depend on the number of visits expected to that institution by each individual. For example, it may be more acceptable to have a larger catchment for a hospital where any one individual will have few annual visits in comparison to a school where visits will be daily and hence desired distance would be closer. \nWhen a facility’s capacity can only service a certain volume, the catchment may be used to limit a population’s ability to access services outside that area. For example, children may be unable to enroll in a school outside their catchment to prevent the school's services being exceeded.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2533968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2533968", "title": "Former countries in Europe after 1815", "text": "Former countries in Europe after 1815\n\nThis article gives a detailed listing of all the countries, including puppet states, that have existed in Europe since the Congress of Vienna in 1815 to the present day. Each country has information separated into columns: name of the distinct country, its lifespan, the country or countries that hold all or some of the territory it once did, and further information about it.\n\nThe scope of this article begins in 1815, after a round of negotiations about European borders and spheres of influence were agreed upon at the Congress of Vienna. The Congress of Vienna was a nine-month, pan-European meeting of statesmen who met to settle the many issues arising from the destabilising impact of the French Revolutionary Wars, the Napoleonic Wars, and the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nThe immediate background was Napoleonic France's defeat and surrender in May 1814, which brought an end to twenty-five years of nearly continuous war during which France had caused the annexation or geopolitical reorganisation of myriad European microstates as well as some larger ones. The Congress of Vienna was the first of a series of international meetings that came to be known as the Concert of Europe, which was an attempt to forge a peaceful balance of power in Europe, including restoring or reorganising many of the states which had previously been removed from Europe's political map.\n\nThis is a list of all the independent countries or puppet states that existed between 1815 and the present day that no longer exist. (Lifespan of each is based on that country's sovereignty. This means that those countries may have existed outside of those dates as well but not under full independence.)\n\nThis is a list of all the dependencies of countries that existed between 1815 and the present day that no longer exist. (Lifespan of each is based on that country’s autonomy. This means that those countries may have existed outside of those dates as well but as independent countries.)\n\nThis is a list of all the independent countries that could or would have existed between 1815 and the present day that for some reason or another never did.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "58222243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58222243", "title": "Geology of Moldova", "text": "Geology of Moldova\n\nThe geology of Moldova encompasses basement rocks from the Precambrian dating back more than 2.5 billion years, overlain by thick sequences of Proterozoic, Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic sedimentary rocks.<ref></ref >\nVery few rocks outcrop at the surface from periods of geologic time before the Neogene and most are limited to the Dniester River valley. Only Miocene and Pliocene rocks outcrop and elsewhere in the country, older rocks are primarily known from borehole drilling. Moldova is underlain by the East European Precambrian Platform and in the southwest, basement rock is covered by a deep Mesozoic basin. Heavily deformed Archean and Proterozoic rocks form the basement of the entire country, including granite, granite gneiss and gabbro. \nBy contrast, the overlying sedimentary rocks that ascend to the ground surface are undeformed and include units from the Riphean (an Eastern European stratigraphic division dating to the transition from the Proterozoic), Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic. \nPotassium-argon dating of glauconite from the lowest units gives an age of 1.01 billion to 590 million years ago, with units 100 to 150 meters thick, overlain by 700 meter thick conglomerate, sandstone and siltstone. A six meter thick sandstone in the west is the only Ordovician rock unit in the country. \n\nSilurian deposits are common in Moldova, mainly clay and carbonates 150 meters thick in north and grading to as much as 900 meters in the southwest. Devonian quartzite is found in the southwest and a few other Devonian rocks are known only in a small area of the Predobrugian Depression. Geologists debate whether 200 meter thick limestone and dolomite found in some boreholes is from the Carboniferous, or if the period is not present in the country. Boreholes have uncovered Permian argillite, sandstone, limestone and anhydrite. \n\nPaleozoic rocks are overlain by Triassic and Jurassic conglomerate, sandstone, siltstone and limestone that lack fossils and reach a maximum thickness of 600 meters near the town of Kahul, Moldova. Although late Jurassic rocks are widespread in the south, unconformably overlying the Precambrian basement and the Hercynian platform, the early Jurassic has not been found anywhere. Red clay, gypsum, anhydrite and sandstone are all typical Jurassic rocks, sometimes reaching thicknesses of up to two kilometers. Except in the southwest, Cretaceous deposits are also common. Marine calcareous rocks are characteristic of the Paleogene in southern and central Moldova, while reef limestone and gypsum records the Miocene. Quaternary deposits from the last 2.5 million years cover almost the entire country. \n\nMoldova has small oil and gas fields in southern rocks from the Sarmatian time as well as several Cenozoic brown coal deposits which are not economically viable. The sugar industry uses high-purity limestone while construction companies quarry gravel, sand and other raw material for concrete and ceramics. \n"}
{"id": "31584301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31584301", "title": "Geometric networks", "text": "Geometric networks\n\nA geometric network is an object commonly used in geographic information systems to model a series of interconnected features. A geometric network is similar to a graph in mathematics and computer science, and can be described and analyzed using theories and concepts similar to graph theory. Geometric networks are often used to model road networks and public utility networks (such as electric, gas, and water utilities).\n\nA geometric network is composed of edges that are connected. Connectivity rules for the network specify which edges are connected and at what points they are connected, commonly referred to as junction or intersection points. These edges can have weights or flow direction assigned to them, which dictate certain properties of these edges that affect analysis results\n. In the case of certain types of networks, source points (points where flow originates) and sink points (points where flow terminates) may also exist. In the case of utility networks, a source point may correlate with an electric substation or a water pumping station, and a sink point may correlate with a service connection at a residential household.\n\nNetworks define the interconnectedness of features. Through analyzing this connectivity, paths from one point to another on the network can be traced and calculated. Through optimization algorithms and utilizing network weights and flow, these paths can also be optimized to show specialized paths, such as the shortest path between two points on the network, as is commonly done in the calculation of driving directions. Networks can also be used to perform spatial analysis to determine points or edges that are encompassed in a certain area or within a certain distance of a specified point. This has applications in hydrology and urban planning, among other fields.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70983", "title": "Great Barrier Reef", "text": "Great Barrier Reef\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral reef system composed of over 2,900 individual reefs and 900 islands stretching for over over an area of approximately . The reef is located in the Coral Sea, off the coast of Queensland, Australia. The Great Barrier Reef can be seen from outer space and is the world's biggest single structure made by living organisms. This reef structure is composed of and built by billions of tiny organisms, known as coral polyps. It supports a wide diversity of life and was selected as a World Heritage Site in 1981. CNN labelled it one of the seven natural wonders of the world. The Queensland National Trust named it a state icon of Queensland.\n\nA large part of the reef is protected by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park, which helps to limit the impact of human use, such as fishing and tourism. Other environmental pressures on the reef and its ecosystem include runoff, climate change accompanied by mass coral bleaching, and cyclic population outbreaks of the crown-of-thorns starfish. According to a study published in October 2012 by the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\", the reef has lost more than half its coral cover since 1985.\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef has long been known to and used by the Aboriginal Australian and Torres Strait Islander peoples, and is an important part of local groups' cultures and spirituality. The reef is a very popular destination for tourists, especially in the Whitsunday Islands and Cairns regions. Tourism is an important economic activity for the region, generating over AUD$3 billion per year. In November 2014, Google launched Google Underwater Street View in 3D of the Great Barrier Reef. \n\nA March 2016 report stated that coral bleaching was more widespread than previously thought, seriously affecting the northern parts of the reef as a result of warming ocean temperatures. In October 2016, \"Outside\" published an obituary for the reef; the article was criticized for being premature and hindering efforts to bolster the resilience of the reef. In March 2017, the journal \"Nature\" published a paper showing that huge sections of a 800-kilometre (500 mi) stretch in the northern part of the reef had died in the course of 2016 due to high water temperatures, an event that the authors put down to the effects of global climate change.\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef is a distinct feature of the East Australian Cordillera division. It reaches from Torres Strait (between Bramble Cay, its northernmost island, and the south coast of Papua New Guinea) in the north to the unnamed passage between Lady Elliot Island (its southernmost island) and Fraser Island in the south. Lady Elliot Island is located southeast of Bramble Cay as the crow flies. It includes the smaller Murray Islands. \n\nThe Plate tectonic theory indicates Australia has moved northwards at a rate of per year, starting during the Cenozoic. Eastern Australia experienced a period of tectonic uplift, which moved the drainage divide in Queensland inland. Also during this time, Queensland experienced volcanic eruptions leading to central and shield volcanoes and basalt flows. Some of these became high islands. After the Coral Sea Basin formed, coral reefs began to grow in the Basin, but until about 25 million years ago, northern Queensland was still in temperate waters south of the tropics—too cool to support coral growth. The Great Barrier Reef's development history is complex; after Queensland drifted into tropical waters, it was largely influenced by reef growth and decline as sea level changed.\n\nReefs can increase in diameter by per year, and grow vertically anywhere from per year; however, they grow only above a depth of due to their need for sunlight, and cannot grow above sea level. When Queensland edged into tropical waters 24 million years ago, some coral grew, but a sedimentation regime quickly developed with erosion of the Great Dividing Range; creating river deltas, oozes and turbidites, unsuitable conditions for coral growth. 10 million years ago, the sea level significantly lowered, which further enabled sedimentation. The reef's substrate may have needed to build up from the sediment until its edge was too far away for suspended sediments to inhibit coral growth. In addition, approximately 400,000 years ago there was a particularly warm interglacial period with higher sea levels and a water temperature change.\nThe land that formed the substrate of the current Great Barrier Reef was a coastal plain formed from the eroded sediments of the Great Dividing Range with some larger hills (most of which were themselves remnants of older reefs or, in rare cases, volcanoes).\nThe Reef Research Centre, a Cooperative Research Centre, has found coral 'skeleton' deposits that date back half a million years. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority (GBRMPA) considers the earliest evidence of complete reef structures to have been 600,000 years ago. According to the GBRMPA, the current, living reef structure is believed to have begun growing on the older platform about 20,000 years ago. The Australian Institute of Marine Science agrees, placing the beginning of the growth of the current reef at the time of the Last Glacial Maximum. At around that time, sea level was lower than it is today.\n\nFrom 20,000 years ago until 6,000 years ago, sea level rose steadily around the world. As it rose, the corals could then grow higher on the newly submerged maritime margins of the hills of the coastal plain. By around 13,000 years ago the sea level was only lower than the present day, and corals began to surround the hills of the coastal plain, which were, by then, continental islands. As the sea level rose further still, most of the continental islands were submerged. The corals could then overgrow the submerged hills, to form the present cays and reefs. Sea level here has not risen significantly in the last 6,000 years. The CRC Reef Research Centre estimates the age of the present, living reef structure at 6,000 to 8,000 years old. The shallow water reefs that can be seen in air-photographs and satellite images cover an area of 20,679 km², most (about 80%) of which has grown on top of limestone platforms that are relics of past (Pleistocene) phases of reef growth.\n\nThe remains of an ancient barrier reef similar to the Great Barrier Reef can be found in The Kimberley, Western Australia.\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area has been divided into 70 bioregions, of which 30 are reef bioregions. In the northern part of the Great Barrier Reef, ribbon reefs and deltaic reefs have formed; these structures are not found in the rest of the reef system. There are no atolls in the system, and reefs attached to the mainland are rare.\n\nFringing reefs are distributed widely, but are most common towards the southern part of the Great Barrier Reef, attached to high islands, for example, the Whitsunday Islands. Lagoonal reefs are found in the southern Great Barrier Reef, and further north, off the coast of Princess Charlotte Bay. Cresentic reefs are the most common shape of reef in the middle of the system, for example the reefs surrounding Lizard Island. Cresentic reefs are also found in the far north of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park, and in the Swain Reefs (20–22 degrees south). Planar reefs are found in the northern and southern parts, near Cape York Peninsula, Princess Charlotte Bay, and Cairns. Most of the islands on the reef are found on planar reefs.\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef supports an extraordinary diversity of life, including many vulnerable or endangered species, some of which may be endemic to the reef system.\n\nThirty species of cetaceans have been recorded in the Great Barrier Reef, including the dwarf minke whale, Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin, and the humpback whale. Large populations of dugongs live there. More than 1,500 fish species live on the reef, including the clownfish, red bass, red-throat emperor, and several species of snapper and coral trout. Forty-nine species mass spawn, while eighty-four other species spawn elsewhere in their range. Seventeen species of sea snake live on the Great Barrier Reef in warm waters up to deep and are more common in the southern than in the northern section. None found in the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area are endemic, nor are any endangered.\n\nSix species of sea turtles come to the reef to breed: the green sea turtle, leatherback sea turtle, hawksbill turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, flatback turtle, and the Olive Ridley. The green sea turtles on the Great Barrier Reef have two genetically distinct populations, one in the northern part of the reef and the other in the southern part. Fifteen species of seagrass in beds attract the dugongs and turtles, and provide fish habitat. The most common genera of seagrasses are \"Halophila\" and \"Halodule\".\n\nSaltwater crocodiles live in mangrove and salt marshes on the coast near the reef. Nesting has not been reported, and the salt water crocodile population in the GBRWHA is wide-ranging but low density. Around 125 species of shark, stingray, skates or chimaera live on the reef. Close to 5,000 species of mollusc have been recorded on the reef, including the giant clam and various nudibranchs and cone snails. Forty-nine species of pipefish and nine species of seahorse have been recorded. At least seven species of frog inhabit the islands.\n\n215 species of birds (including 22 species of seabirds and 32 species of shorebirds) visit the reef or nest or roost on the islands, including the white-bellied sea eagle and roseate tern. Most nesting sites are on islands in the northern and southern regions of the Great Barrier Reef, with 1.4 to 1.7 million birds using the sites to breed. The islands of the Great Barrier Reef also support 2,195 known plant species; three of these are endemic. The northern islands have 300–350 plant species which tend to be woody, whereas the southern islands have 200 which tend to be herbaceous; the Whitsunday region is the most diverse, supporting 1,141 species. The plants are propagated by birds.\nThere are at least 330 species of ascidians on the reef system with the diameter of . Between 300–500 species of bryozoans live on the reef. Four hundred coral species, both hard corals and soft corals inhabit the reef. The majority of these spawn gametes, breeding in mass spawning events that are triggered by the rising sea temperatures of spring and summer, the lunar cycle, and the diurnal cycle. Reefs in the inner Great Barrier Reef spawn during the week after the full moon in October, while the outer reefs spawn in November and December. Its common soft corals belong to 36 genera. Five hundred species of marine algae or seaweed live on the reef, including thirteen species of genus \"Halimeda\", which deposit calcareous mounds up to wide, creating mini-ecosystems on their surface which have been compared to rainforest cover.\n\nClimate change, pollution, crown-of-thorns starfish and fishing are the primary threats to the health of this reef system. Other threats include shipping accidents, oil spills, and tropical cyclones. Skeletal Eroding Band, a disease of bony corals caused by the protozoan \"Halofolliculina corallasia\", affects 31 coral species. According to a 2012 study by the National Academy of Science, since 1985, the Great Barrier Reef has lost more than half of its corals with two-thirds of the loss occurring from 1998 due to the factors listed before.\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority considers the greatest threat to the Great Barrier Reef to be climate change, causing ocean warming which increases coral bleaching. Mass coral bleaching events due to elevated ocean temperatures occurred in the summers of 1998, 2002 and 2006, and coral bleaching is expected to become an annual occurrence. As global warming continues, corals will not be able to keep up with increasing ocean temperatures. Coral bleaching events lead to increased disease susceptibility, which causes detrimental ecological effects for reef communities. \n\nWorld Heritage Committee meeting will take place in Kraków, Poland, in July 2017. UNESCO, in a draft decision published in June 2017 as part of the agenda for the meeting, expressed serious concern about the impact of coral bleaching on the Great Barrier Reef. The draft decision also warned Australia that it will not meet the targets of the Reef 2050 report without considerable work to improve water quality.\n\nClimate change has implications for other forms of reef life—some fish's preferred temperature range leads them to seek new habitat, thus increasing chick mortality in predatory seabirds. Climate change will also affect the population and sea turtle's available habitat.\n\nBleaching events in benthic coral communities (deeper than ) in the Great Barrier reef are not as well documented as those at shallower depths, but recent research has shown that benthic communities are just as negatively impacted in the face of rising ocean temperatures. Five Great Barrier Reef species of large benthic corals were found bleached under elevated temperatures, affirming that benthic corals are vulnerable to thermal stress.\n\nAnother key threat faced by the Great Barrier Reef is pollution and declining water quality. The rivers of north eastern Australia pollute the Reef during tropical flood events. Over 90% of this pollution comes from farm runoff. 80% of the land adjacent to the Great Barrier Reef is used for farming including intensive cropping of sugar cane, and major beef cattle grazing. Farming practices damage the reef due to overgrazing, increased run-off of agricultural sediments, nutrients and chemicals including fertilisers, herbicides and pesticides representing a major health risk for the coral and biodiversity of the reefs. Sediments containing high levels of copper and other heavy metals sourced from the Ok Tedi Mine in Papua New Guinea are a potential pollution risk for the far northern Great Barrier Reef and Torres Strait regions.\n\nSome 67% of corals died in the reef's worst-hit northern section, the ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies report said.\n\nThe runoff problem is exacerbated by the loss of coastal wetlands which act as a natural filter for toxins and help deposit sediment. It is thought that the poor water quality is due to increased light and oxygen competition from algae.\n\nFarming fertiliser runoff release nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium into the oceanic ecosystem, these limiting nutrients cause massive algal growth which leads to depletion in oxygen available for other creatures which decreases the biodiversity in the affected areas, altering the species composition. A study by Katharina Fabricius and Glen Death of Australian Institute of Marine Science found that hard corals numbers were almost double on reefs that were far from agricultural areas.\n\nFertilizers also increase the amount of phytoplankton available for the crown-of-thorns starfish larvae to consume. A study showed that a doubling of the chlorophyll in the water leads to a tenfold increase in the crown-of-thorns starfish larvae's survival rate.\n\nSediment runoff from farming carries chemicals into the reef environment also reduces the amount of light available to the corals decreasing their ability to extract energy from their environment.\n\nPesticides used in farming are made up of heavy metals such as lead, mercury, arsenic and other toxins are released into the wider environment due to erosion of farm soil, which has a detrimental effect on the coral.\n\nMining company Queensland Nickel discharged nitrate-laden water into the Great Barrier Reef in 2009 and 2011 – on the later occasion releasing of waste water. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority (GBRMPA) stated \"We have strongly encouraged the company to investigate options that do not entail releasing the material to the environment and to develop a management plan to eliminate this potential hazard; however, GBRMPA does not have legislative control over how the Yabulu tailings dam is managed\".\n\nThe crown-of-thorns starfish preys on coral polyps. Large outbreaks of these starfish can devastate reefs. In 2000, an outbreak contributed to a loss of 66% of live coral cover on sampled reefs in a study by the RRC (Reefs Research Centre.) Outbreaks are believed to occur in natural cycles, worsened by poor water quality and overfishing of the starfish's predators.\n\nThe unsustainable overfishing of keystone species, such as the Giant Triton, can disrupt food chains vital to reef life. Fishing also impacts the reef through increased water pollution from boats, by-catch of unwanted species (such as dolphins and turtles) and habitat destruction from trawling, anchors and nets. As of the middle of 2004, approximately one-third of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park is protected from species removal of any kind, including fishing, without written permission.\n\nShipping accidents are a pressing concern, as several commercial shipping routes pass through the Great Barrier Reef.\nAlthough the route through the Great Barrier Reef is not easy, reef pilots consider it safer than outside the reef in the event of mechanical failure, since a ship can sit safely while being repaired. There have been over 1,600 known shipwrecks in the Great Barrier Reef region.\nOn 3 April 2010, the bulk coal carrier ran aground on Douglas Shoals, spilling up to four tonnes of oil into the water and causing extensive damage to the reef.\n\nIn March 2015, the Australian and Queensland’s governments formed a plan for the protection and preservation of the reef’s universal heritage until 2050. This 35 years plan, titled \"Reef 2050 Plan\" is a document proposing possible measures for the long-term management of the pollution, climate change and other issues that threaten the life span and value of this global heritage. The plan contains all the elements for measurement and improvements, including; long-term sustainability plan, water quality improvement plan and the investment plan for the protection and preservation of The Reef until 2050.\n\nHowever, whereas the 2050 plan aims to incorporate protective measures such as improving water quality, reef restoration, killing of predatory starfish, it does not incorporate additional measures to address the root cause the problem namely climate change (which is caused by greenhouse gas emissions). As such, experts doubt on whether it will be enough to save the fragile environment.\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef has long been known to and used by the Aboriginal Australian and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Aboriginal Australians have been living in the area for at least 40,000 years, and Torres Strait Islanders since about 10,000 years ago. For these 70 or so clan groups, the reef is also an important cultural feature.\n\nIn 1768 Louis de Bougainville found the reef during an exploratory mission, but did not claim the area for the French. On 11 June 1770, , captained by explorer James Cook, ran aground on the Great Barrier Reef, sustaining considerable damage. Lightening the ship and re-floating it during an incoming tide eventually saved it. One of the most famous wrecks was , which sank on 29 August 1791, killing 35 men. The Queensland Museum has led archaeological digs to wreck of \"Pandora\" since 1983. Because the reef had no atolls, it was largely unstudied in the 19th century. During this time, some of the reef's islands were mined for deposits of guano, and lighthouses were built as beacons throughout the system. as in Raine Island, the earliest example. In 1922, the Great Barrier Reef Committee began carrying out much of the early research on the reef.\n\nRoyal Commissions disallowed oil drilling in the Great Barrier Reef, in 1975 the Government of Australia created the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park and prohibited various activities. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park does not include the entire Great Barrier Reef Province. The park is managed, in partnership with the Government of Queensland, through the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority to ensure that it is used in a sustainable manner. A combination of zoning, management plans, permits, education and incentives (such as eco-tourism certification) are employed in the effort to conserve the reef.\n\nIn 1999, the Australian Parliament passed the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act, which improved the operation of national environmental law by providing guidance about regional biodiversity conservation priorities. The marine bioregional planning process came from the implementation of this law. This process conserves marine biodiversity by considering the whole ecosystem a species is in and how different species interact in the marine environment.\n\nThere are two steps to this process. The first step is to identify regional conservation priorities in the five (currently) different marine regions. The second step is to identify marine reserves (protected areas or marine parks) to be added to Australia's National Representative System of Marine Protected Areas. Like protected areas on land, marine reserves are created to protect biodiversity for generations to come. Marine reserves are identified based on criteria written in a document created by Australian and New Zealand Environment and Conservation Council called \"Guidelines for establishing the national representative system of marine protected areas\", also known as just \"the Guidelines\". These guidelines are nationally recognised and implemented at the local level based on the Australian policy for implementation outlined in the \"Goals and Principles for the Establishment of the National Representative System of Marine Protected Areas in Commonwealth Waters\". These policies are in place to make sure that a marine reserve is only added to the NRSMPA after careful evaluation of different data.\n\nThe priorities for each region are created based on human and environmental threats and the Marine Bioregional Plans are drafted to address these priorities. To assess different region's priorities, three steps are taken, first, a bioregional profile is created, second, a bioregional plan is drafted, and third, the plan is finalised. After the plan is finalised, activity in different bioregions may become limited based on particular threats an activity may pose.\n\nIn 2001, the GBRMPA released a report about the declining water quality in the Great Barrier Reef and detailed the importance of this issue. In response to this report, in 2003, the Australian and Queensland governments launched a joint initiative to improve the quality of water entering the Great Barrier Reef. The decline in the quality of water over the past 150 years (due to development) has contributed to coral bleaching, algal blooms, and pesticide pollution. These forms of pollution have made the reef less resilient to climate change.\n\nWhen the plan was introduced in October 2003, it originally contained 65 actions built on previous legislation. Their immediate goal was to halt and reverse the decline in water quality entering the reef by 2013. By 2020, they hope that the quality of the water entering in the reef improves enough so that it doesn't have a detrimental impact on the health of the Great Barrier Reef. To achieve these goals they decided to reduce pollutants in the water entering the reef and to rehabilitate and conserve areas of the reef that naturally help reduce water pollutants. To achieve the objectives described above, this plan focuses on non-point sources of pollution, which cannot be traced to a single source such as a waste outlet.\n\nThe plan specifically targets nutrients, pesticides and sediment that make their way into the reef as a result of agricultural activities. Other non-point sources of pollution that are attributed to urban areas are covered under different legislation. In 2009, the plan was updated. The updated version states that to date, none of the efforts undertaken to improve the quality of water entering the reef has been successful. The new plan attempts to address this issue by \"targeting priority outcomes, integrating industry and community initiatives and incorporating new policy and regulatory frameworks (Reef Plan 5)\". This updated version has improved the clarity of the previous plan and targets set by that plan, have improved accountability and further improved monitoring and assessment. The 2009 report found that 41 out of the 65 actions met their original goals, however, 18 were not progressing well according to evaluation criteria as well as 6 were rated as having unsatisfactory levels of progress.\n\nSome key achievements made since the plan's initial passing in 2003 were the establishment of the Reef Quality Partnership to set targets, report findings and monitor progress towards targets, improved land condition by landowners was rewarded with extended leases, Water Quality Improvement Plans were created to identify regional targets and identified management changes that needed to be made to reach those targets, Nutrient Management Zones have been created to combat sediment loss in particular areas, education programs have been started to help gather support for sustainable agriculture, changes to land management practices have taken place through the implementation of the Farm Management Systems and codes of practice, the creation of the Queensland Wetland program and other achievements were made to help improve the water quality flowing into the coral reefs.\n\nA taskforce of scientists was also created to assess the impact of different parts of the plan on the quality of water flowing into the coral reefs. They found that many of the goals have yet to be reached but found more evidence that states that improving the water quality of the Great Barrier Reef will improve its resilience to climate change. The Reefocus summit in 2008, which is also detailed in the report, came to similar conclusions. After this, a stakeholder working group was formed that worked between several groups as well as the Australian and Queensland governments to update reef goals and objectives. The updated version of the plan focuses on strategic priority areas and actions to achieve 2013 goals. Also quantitative targets have been made to critically assess whether targets are being met.\n\nSome examples of the water quality goals outlined by this plan are that by 2013, there will be a 50% reduction in nitrogen and phosphorus loads at the end of catchments and that by 2020, there will be a reduction in sediment load by 20%. The plan also outlines a number of steps that must be taken by landholders to help improve grazing, soil, nutrient, and chemical management practices. There are also a number of supporting initiatives to take place outlined in the plan to help create a framework to improve land use practices which will in turn improve water quality.\n\nThrough these means the governments of Australia and Queensland hope to improve water quality by 2013. The 2013 outlook report and revised water quality plan will assess what needs to be done in the future to improve water quality and the livelihoods of the wildlife that resides there.\n\nIn July 2004, a new zoning plan took effect for the entire Marine Park, and has been widely acclaimed as a new global benchmark for marine ecosystem conservation. The rezoning was based on the application of systematic conservation planning techniques, using marxan software. While protection across the Marine Park was improved, the highly protected zones increased from 4.5% to over 33.3%. At the time, it was the largest Marine Protected Area in the world, although in 2006, the new Northwestern Hawaiian Islands National Monument became the largest.\n\nIn 2006, a review of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act of 1975 recommended are that there should be no further zoning plan changes until 2013, and that every five years, a peer-reviewed outlook report should be published, examining the reef's health, management, and environmental pressures. In each outlook report, several assessments are required. Each assessment has a set of assessment criteria that allows for better presentation of available evidence. Each assessment is judged by these criteria and given a grade. Every outlook report follows the same judging and grading process so that information can be tracked over time. No new research is done to produce the report. Only readily available information goes into the report so little of what is known about the Reef is actually featured in each outlook report.\n\nIn December 2013, Greg Hunt, the Australian environment minister, approved a plan for dredging to create three shipping terminals as part of the construction of a coalport. According to corresponding approval documents, the process will create around 3 million cubic metres of dredged seabed that will be dumped within the Great Barrier Reef marine park area.\n\nOn 31 January 2014, the GBRMPA issued a dumping permit that will allow three million cubic metres of sea bed from Abbot Point, north of Bowen, to be transported and unloaded in the waters of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. Potential significant harms have been identified in relation to dredge spoil and the process of churning up the sea floor in the area and exposing it to air: firstly, new research shows the finer particles of dredge spoil can cloud the water and block sunlight, thereby starving sea grass and coral up to distances of 80 km away from the point of origin due to the actions of wind and currents. Furthermore, dredge spoil can literally smother reef or sea grass to death, while storms can repeatedly resuspend these particles so that the harm caused is ongoing; secondly, disturbed sea floor can release toxic substances into the surrounding environment.\n\nThe dredge spoil from the Abbot Point port project is to be dumped away, near Bowen in north Queensland, and the approval from the Authority will result in the production of an extra 70 million tonnes of coal annually, worth between A$1.4 billion and $2.8 billion. Authority chairman, Dr Russell Reichelt, stated after the confirmation of the approval:\nThis approval is in line with the agency’s view that port development along the Great Barrier Reef coastline should be limited to existing ports. As a deepwater port that has been in operation for nearly 30 years, Abbot Point is better placed than other ports along the Great Barrier Reef coastline to undertake expansion as the capital and maintenance dredging required will be significantly less than what would be required in other areas. It’s important to note the seafloor of the approved disposal area consists of sand, silt and clay and does not contain coral reefs or seagrass beds.\n\nThe approval was provided with a corresponding set of 47 new environmental conditions that include the following:\n\n\nThe Australian Federal Government announced on 13 November that there would now be a ban on the dumping of dredge spoil in the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. The World Heritage Committee asked Environment Minister Greg Hunt to investigate alternative options to dump on land instead. The Queensland government and the Commonwealth have now accepted the alternative option and advice from The World Heritage Committee and will now commence dumping on land.\n\nDue to its vast biodiversity, warm clear waters and accessibility from the tourist boats called \"live aboards\", the reef is a very popular destination, especially for scuba divers. Tourism on the Great Barrier Reef is concentrated in Cairns and also The Whitsundays due to their accessibility. These areas make up 7%–8% of the Park's area. The Whitsundays and Cairns have their own Plans of Management. Many cities along the Queensland coast offer daily boat trips. Several continental and coral cay islands are now resorts, including Green Island and Lady Elliot Island. As of 1996, 27 islands on the Great Barrier Reef supported resorts.\n\nIn 1996, most of the tourism in the region was domestically generated and the most popular visiting times were during the Australian winter. At this time, it was estimated that tourists to the Great Barrier Reef contributed A$776 million per annum. As the largest commercial activity in the region, it was estimated in 2003 that tourism generated over A$4 billion annually, and the 2005 estimate increased to A$5.1 billion. A Deloitte report published by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority in March 2013 states that the Reef's 2,000 kilometres of coastline attracts tourism worth A$6.4 billion annually and employs more than 64,000 people.\n\nApproximately two million people visit the Great Barrier Reef each year. Although most of these visits are managed in partnership with the marine tourism industry, there is a concern among the general public that tourism is harmful to the Great Barrier Reef.\n\nA variety of boat tours and cruises are offered, from single day trips, to longer voyages. Boat sizes range from dinghies to superyachts. Glass-bottomed boats and underwater observatories are also popular, as are helicopter flights. By far, the most popular tourist activities on the Great Barrier Reef are snorkelling and diving, for which pontoons are often used, and the area is often enclosed by nets. The outer part of the Great Barrier Reef is favoured for such activities, due to water quality.\n\nManagement of tourism in the Great Barrier Reef is geared towards making tourism ecologically sustainable. A daily fee is levied that goes towards research of the Great Barrier Reef. This fee ends up being 20% of the GBRMPA's income.\nPolicies on cruise ships, bareboat charters, and anchorages limit the traffic on the Great Barrier Reef.\n\nThe problems that surround ecotourism in the Great Barrier Reef revolve around permanent tourism platforms. Platforms are large, ship-like vessels that act as a base for tourists while scuba diving and snorkelling in the Great Barrier Reef. Seabirds will land on the platforms and defecate which will eventually be washed into the sea. The feces carry nitrogen, phosphorus and often DDT and mercury, which cause aspergillosis, yellow-band disease, and black band disease. Areas without tourism platforms have 14 out of 9,468 (1.1%) diseased corals versus areas with tourism platforms that have 172 out of 7,043 (12%) diseased corals. Tourism is a major economic activity for the region. Thus, while non-permanent platforms could be possible in some areas, overall, permanent platforms are likely a necessity. Solutions have been suggested to siphon bird waste into gutters connecting to tanks helping lower runoff that causes coral disease.\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority has also placed many permanent anchorage points around the general use areas. These act to reduce damage to the reef due to anchoring destroying soft coral, chipping hard coral, and disturbing sediment as it is dragged across the bottom. Tourism operators also must comply with speed limits when travelling to or from tourist destinations, to prevent excessive wake from the boats disturbing the reef ecosystem.\n\nThe fishing industry in the Great Barrier Reef, controlled by the Queensland Government, is worth A$1 billion annually. It employs approximately 2000 people, and fishing in the Great Barrier Reef is pursued commercially, for recreation, and as a traditional means for feeding one's family.\n\nUnder the Native Title Act 1993, native title holders retain the right to legally hunt dugongs and green turtles for \"personal, domestic or non-commercial communal needs\".\n\nFour traditional owners groups agreed to cease the hunting of dugongs in the area in 2011 due to their declining numbers, partially accelerated by seagrass damage from Cyclone Yasi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18918418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18918418", "title": "Harov", "text": "Harov\n\nHarov (also Garov, ) is a village in the Khojali Rayon of Azerbaijan. Since the Nagorno-Karabakh war the town has been administered by the \"de facto\" Nagorno-Karabakh Republic as part of Askeran Province.\n"}
{"id": "4335432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4335432", "title": "Hierocles (author of Synecdemus)", "text": "Hierocles (author of Synecdemus)\n\nHierocles (Greek: Ἱεροκλῆς \"Hierokles\") was a Byzantine geographer of the sixth century and the attributed author of the \"Synecdemus\" or \"Synekdemos\", which contains a table of administrative divisions of the Byzantine Empire and lists of the cities of each. The work is dated to the reign of Justinian but prior to 535, as it divides the 912 listed cities in the Empire among 64 Eparchies. The \"Synecdemus\" is thus one of the most invaluable monuments which we have to study the political geography of the sixth century East. The work of Hierocles along with that of Stephanus of Byzantium were the principal sources of Constantine VII's work on the Themes (\"De Thematibus\"). Hierocles was published by Parthey (Hieroclis Synecdemus; Berlin, 1866) then in a corrected text, by A. Burckhardt in the Teubner series (Hieroclis Synecdemus; Leipzig, 1893). The most recent major publication was by E. Honigmann (\"Le Synekdèmos d'Hiéroklès et l'opuscule géographique de Georges de Chypre\"; Brussels, 1939). \n\nThe Synecdemus of Hierocles should not be confused with a Greek Orthodox prayer book by the same name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3047701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3047701", "title": "ISO 3166-2:ST", "text": "ISO 3166-2:ST\n\nISO 3166-2:ST is the entry for São Tomé and Príncipe in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for São Tomé and Príncipe, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for the 2 former provinces, São Tomé and Príncipe. Each code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of São Tomé and Príncipe. The second part is a letter.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1703607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1703607", "title": "Index of Malawi-related articles", "text": "Index of Malawi-related articles\n\nThis page list topics related to Malawi.\n\nAaron, Malawi -\nAlick Sambo -\nYohanna Barnaba Abdallah -\nAbrahams Commission -\nAchikunda -\nOsman Adam -\nAfrican Cooperative Society (ACS) -\nAfrican Lakes Company (ALC) -\nAfrican Baptist Assembly of Malawi, Inc. -\nAfrican Methodist Episcopal Church (AME Church) -\nAfrican National Church -\nAfrican Protectorate Council of Nyasaland -\nAfrican Reformed Presbyterian Church -\nAfricanization -\nAgricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) -\nAgriculture in Malawi -\nAIDS in Malawi -\nA L Bruce Estates -\nAir Malawi -\nAlliance for Democracy (AFORD) -\nAugustine Amball -\nAnglo-Portuguese Treaty of 1891 -\nArab War -\nArab-Swahili War -\nRobert Perceval Armitage -\nArmitage Report -\nAsian Convention -\nAskari -\nAlessandro Assolari -\nAtonga Tribal Council -\nLouis Auneau -\n\"Aurora\" -\n\nJacob Bakker -\nBalaka District -\nAleke Kadonomphani Banda -\nHastings Kamuzu Banda -\nJohn R. Banda -\nKapichila Banda -\nMasanya Banda -\nMtalika Banda -\nRichard Banda -\nThamar Dillon Thomas Banda -\nBandawe -\nLewis Matake Bandawe -\nSergeant Major Bandawe -\nBanking in Malawi -\nA. Francis Baron -\nMalcolm Paller Barrow -\nBemba language -\nBemba people -\nBembeke -\nBeningoma -\nHumphrey F. Bingham -\nJoseph Bismarck -\nBlack Man's Church of God which is in Tongaland -\nMichael Hill Blackwood -\nBlantyre -\nBlantyre and East Africa Ltd -\nBlantyre District -\nBlantyre Mission -\nBledisloe Commission -\nGaspar Bocarro -\nTom Bokwito -\nEmily Booth (writer) -\nJoseph Booth (missionary) -\nPierre Bourget -\nCharles Calvert Bowring -\nSorabji Boyce -\nThomas Branch -\nBritish Central Africa Protectorate -\nBritish Central African Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce -\nBritish Central Africa Company (BCA) -\nBritish Central Africa Gazette -\nBritish Christian Union -\nThe British Cotton Growing Association (BCGA) -\nBritish South Africa Company (BSAC) -\nArchibald Fenner Brockway -\nAlexander Livingstone Bruce -\nAlexander Low Bruce -\nJohn Buchanan (settler) -\nBunda College of Agriculture -\nRobert Austen Butler -\nBwalo la Nyasaland -\nEdward Chitsulu Bwanali -\nAugustine Bwanausi -\nHarry Bwanausi -\nOperation Bwezani -\n\nCabinet Crisis of 1964 -\nCape Maclear -\nCapricorn Africa Society -\nCatholic bishop's pastoral letter of 1992 (Living Our Faith) -\nRoman Catholicism in Malawi -\nCentral African Airways (CAA) -\nCentral African Broadcasting Services (CABS) -\nCentral African Planter -\nCentral African Times -\nCertificates of Claim -\nGwanda Chakuamba -\nChancellor College -\nChangalume -\nGeorge Chaponda -\nLewis Chatsika -\nEmmie Chanika -\nChatsika Report -\nChauta -\nKatumbi Chawinga -\nDuncan Chawinga -\nLyoond Chakakala Chaziya Phiri -\nLangdon Cheek -\nChewa language -\nChewa people -\nMackinley Qabaniso Yesaya Chibambo -\nRose Chibambo -\nSamuel Songelwayo Chibambo -\nYesaya Mlonyeni Chibambo -\nSimon Chidawati -\nChidyawonga -\nRichard Beston Chidzanja-Nkhoma -\nChiefs Union; Nyasaland Chiefs Union -\nChakufwa Chihana -\nDunstan W. Chijozi -\nChikanga -\nChikang'ombe -\nChikulamayembe -\nChikumbu -\nChikunda -\nJohn Chikwakwa -\nChikwakwa -\nChikwawa District -\nChild Spacing Program -\nIda Chilembwe -\nJohn Chilembwe -\nChilembwe's motivation -\nChilembwe uprising -\nAlifeyo Chilibvumbo -\nChilobwe -\nChilobwe murders -\nChilumba -\nJames Chimera -\nMathias Chimbole -\nSteve Chimombo -\nFred Chimtali -\nChinde - \nChindio -\nC. M. Chinkondenji -\nChintheche -\nCharles Chidongo Chinula -\nFilipo Chinyama -\nJames Ralph Nthinda Chinyama -\nJames Chiona -\nPeter Chiona -\nChipatula -\nHenry Masauko Blasius Chipembere -\nCatherine Chipembere -\nCanon Chipembere -\nHenry Chipembere -\nChiperoni -\nO'Brien Mapopa Chipeta -\nChipoka -\nA. W. Chipungu -\nChiradzulu District -\nChiradzulu Native Association -\nChirimba -\nAndrew Chirnside -\nChiromo -\nEliot Musokwa Kamwana Chirwa -\nJonathan Chirwa -\nOrton Chirwa -\nRobson Watayachanga Chirwa -\nVera Chirwa -\nWellington Manoah Chirwa -\nYuraiah Chatonda Chirwa -\nDunduzu Chisiza -\nDunduzu Chisiza, Jr. -\nYatuta Chisiza -\nJoaquim Chissano -\nChisumphi -\nMungo Murray Chisuse -\nEdda Chitalo -\nChitenje -\nChitimba -\nChitipa -\nChitipa District -\nCornelio Chitsulo -\nChitukuko Cha Amai mu Malawi (CCAM) -\nKanyama Chiume -\nChiwoda -\nDr Chiwoza Bandawe -\nCollins Chizumila -\nChizumulu -\nWillie Chokani -\nCholera in Malawi -\nChristian Council of Malawi -\nChristian Hospital Association of Malawi (CHAMA) -\nChristian Service Committee of the Churches in Malawi (CSC) -\nChulu -\nChuma -\nChurch of Central Africa Presbyterian (CCAP) -\nWalter Cockerill -\nCoffee in Malawi -\nGeoffrey Francis Taylor Colby -\nColonial Development Corporation (CDC) -\nColonial Development and Welfare Act -\nColonial Development and Welfare Fund -\nColonial governors of British Central Africa -\nColonial governors of Nyasaland -\nThomas Colvin -\nCommon Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) -\nCommonwealth Development Corporation -\nCommunications in Malawi -\nIgnaco Conforzi -\nCongress for the Second Republic -\nCongress Liberation Party (CPL) -\nConsol Homes Orphan Care -\nConvention of Associations -\nCooperatives in Malawi -\nCotton in Malawi -\nDavid Kerr Cross -\nCuisine of Malawi -\nCulture of Malawi -\nCurrency of Malawi -\n\nAnn Daoma -\nPranlal Dayaram -\nDedza District - \nEmma B. Delany -\nWadson Bini Deleza -\nMalawi Democratic Party; Malawi Democrat -\nDemographics of Malawi -\nDevlin Commission -\nDowa District - \nM. G. Dharap -\nDistricts of Malawi -\nJoseph Dupont -\nDutch Reformed Church of South Africa Mission (DRC) -\nDwangwa River -\n\nEconomy of Malawi -\nEdingeni -\nEducation in Malawi -\nEkwendeni -\nElections in Malawi -\nElectricity in Malawi -\nElectricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM) -\nWalter Angus Elmslie -\nEnvironment in Malawi -\nEthiopianism -\nEthnic groups in Malawi -\nEnoch Evans -\nExecutive Council of the African Union (EXCO) -\n\nPeter Fachi -\nFarmers Marketing Board (FMB) -\nFederal Broadcasting Corporation (FBC) -\nFederal Review Conference -\nFederation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland -\nGeorge Stevenson Fiddes -\nFishing in Malawi -\nFlag of Malawi -\nFootball in Malawi -\nFootball Association of Malawi -\nCharles Worthington Fowden Footman -\nForeign aid to Malawi -\nForeign relations of Malawi -\nForestry in Malawi -\nFort Lister -\nFort Maguire -\nFort Mangoche -\nFort Manning -\nFort Mlangeni -\n\nAaron Gadama -\nGeography of Malawi -\nKwacha Ghambi -\nArthur G. B. Glossop -\nInkosi Chitamthumba Gomani I -\nInkosi Zintonga Philip Maseko Gomani II -\nInkosi Willard Maseko Gomani III -\nThomas Gombera -\nChilongozi Gondwe -\nEdward Kayionanga Gondwe -\nGoodall Edward Gondwe -\nKanyoli Gondwe -\nMasopera Gondwe -\nTijepani Dorothy Gondwe -\nVincent Horatius Bonar Gondwe -\nGovernment of Malawi -\nGroundnuts in Malawi -\nWilfird Gudu -\nFocus Gwede -\nJohn Gwengwe -\n\nAubrey Victor Hall -\nSamuel Hara -\nGeorge Dudley Hayes -\nHealth in Malawi -\nHenry Henderson -\nHenry Henderson Institute (HHI) -\nHerbalist Association of Malawi (HAM) -\nAlexander Hetherwick -\nHewe -\nHilton Young Commission -\nHistory of Malawi -\nGodfrey Martin Huggins -\nHuman rights in Malawi -\nR. S. Hynde -\nHenga Valley -\n\nIlala I -\nIlala II -\nIndependent African Churches -\nIndian Chamber of Commerce -\nIndirect rule system -\nIslam in Malawi -\n\nJackson Report -\nGeorge Jafu -\nJalasi -\nJorge Jardim -\nJeanes Training Centre -\nJehovah's Witnesses in Malawi -\nGwaza Jere -\nChauncy Mopho Jere -\nMaxon Jere, Ikosi M'mbewala III -\nMbalekelwa Chimtunga Jere, Inkosi -\nMhlahlo Jere, Inkosi M'mbewala I -\nMkhosi Lazalo Jere, Inkosi M'mbewala II -\nJere, Inkosi Mtwalo I -\nMuhabi Amon Jere, Inkosi Mtwalo II -\nTifapi Jere, Inkosi Mzukuzuku -\nZwangendaba Jere, M'mbewala IV -\nMatekenya -\nWilliam Percival Johnson -\nHarry Johnston -\nArthur Creech Jones -\nGlyn Smallwood Jones -\nFriday Jumbe -\n\nKabula stores -\nKabunduli -\nKachamba Brothers Band -\nDaniel Kachamba -\nDonald Kachamba -\nKachebere -\nKachindamoto -\nAubrey Kachingwe -\nClements Kadalie -\nDavid Kaduya -\nCecilia Tamanda Kadzamira -\nZimani David Kadzamira -\nCharles Kahumba -\nKate Kainja -\nSam Kakhobwe -\nPeter Kaleso -\nW. F. Patrick Augustine Kalilombe -\nKalimbuka -\nJato Vincent Musla Kalinga -\nKalonga -\nKamlepo Kalua -\nKaluluma -\nSamson Kambalu -\nKambondoma -\nWilliam Kamkwamba -\nKamenya Brothers -\nLeonard Mattiya Kamungu -\nKamuzu Academy -\nKamuzu Central Hospital - \nKamuzu College of Nursing -\nEliot Kamwana -\nMac J. Kamwana -\nJohn Kamwendo (the first black African mayor of the city of Blantyre, former GM for Press Corporation Ltd) -\nMike Kamwendo -\nKandodo -\nMisanjo Kansilanga -\nMathias Kantiki -\nAdamson Akogo Kanyaya -\nKanyenda -\nKapalepale -\nKaphwiti -\nKapoche -\nZeenat Janet Karim -\nKaronga -\nKaronga District -\nKaronga War -\nKasisi; Ramakukan -\nKasitu Valley Ghee Producers Co-operative Union -\nKasungu District -\nBridger Katenga -\nReid Willie Katenga-Kaunda -\nNamon Katengeza -\nRichard Develius Katengeza -\nChester Katsonga -\nDavis Katsonga -\nDavid Julizya Kaunda -\nKenneth David Kaunda -\nWedson Chaluluma Kaunda -\nKawinga -\nKawomba -\nAndrew Kayiira -\nLegson Kayira -\nKazwiziwi -\nDavid Kerr Cross -\nRichard Wildman Kettlewell -\nMelvin Maludi Khanga -\nKhondowe -\nNelson Khonje -\nKhulubvi -\nPetro Kilekwa -\nKilupula -\nKilupula Rice Growers Co-operative Union -\nDavid Kimble -\nKing's African Rifles\nKinga -\nKinyakyusa -\nJohn Kirk -\nKirk Range -\nHarold Kittermaster -\nKongwe -\nKota Kota Rice Growers Co-operative Union (KKRGU) -\nKota Kota Rice Trading -\nWilliam Mtusane Koyi -\nJoseph Kubwalo -\nJohn Gray Kufa -\nKinross W. Kulunjiri -\nJeff Kaira -\nBibi Kuluunda -\nClement Kumbikano -\nJeremia T. Kumbwenza -\nGomile Wilanichilambo Kumtumanji -\nSweetman Kumwenda -\nStephen Kundecha -\nKuntaja -\nNophias Dinneck Kwenje -\nKyangonde -\nKyungu -\nJackson S. Kaphuka\n\nLabor unions in Malawi -\nLacey Commission -\nLady Nyassa -\nLake Chilwa -\nLake Chiuta -\nLake Malawi -\nLanguages of Malawi -\nLast Church of God and His Christ -\nLauderdale Estate -\nLaw Society of Malawi -\nIsa MacDonald Lawrence -\nLeague of Malawi Women -\nAdolphe Lechaptois -\nDumbo Lemani -\nLengwe National Park -\nLeprosy Relief Association (LEPRA) -\nLESOMA (The Socialist League of Malawi)\nLGBT rights in Malawi (Gay rights) -\nLibraries in Malawi -\nSmart Likaya-Mbewe; Kapalepale -\nLikhubula -\nLikoma -\nLikoma District - \nLikoma Island -\nLikulezi -\nLikuni -\nLilongwe -\nLilongwe District -\nKen Lipenga -\nList of cities in Malawi -\nList of islands of Malawi -\nList of people on stamps of Malawi -\nLiterature of Malawi -\nDavid Livingstone -\nWilliam Jervis Livingstone -\nLiwonde -\nLivinstonia Mission -\nLivulezi -\nLizulu -\nLomwe -\nLomewe Tribal Society -\nLondon & Blantyre Supply Company -\nPeter Long -\nAaron Longwe -\nBageya Longwe -\nJanet Longwe -\nLondon & Rhodesia Mining Company; Lonrho -\nLoudon Mission -\nLovedale Missionary Institute -\nLali Lubani -\nLubwa -\nLuchenza -\nFrederick Lugard -\nMordecai Malani Lungu -\nMacWilliams Lunguzi -\n\nMabilabo -\nRoderick Samson Mabomba -\nDuff Macdonald -\nMalcolm MacDonald -\nSamora Machel -\nBlaze Machila -\nMachinga District -\nCharles Frederick Mackenzie -\nIain Macleod -\nHarold Macmillan -\nMafinga Mountains -\nMagomero -\nCecil Maguire -\nMaize in Malawi -\nMajere-Henga -\nMakamo Ng'onomo -\nMakandanji -\nMakanjila -\nMakata -\nLawrence Makata -\nJames Leanerd Makhumula -\nPearson Makhumula-Nkhoma -\nMakololo -\nMakololo Chiefs (Malawi) -\nAbiti Dorothy Makwinja -\nAlexander Makwinja -\nMalamulo -\nMalawi -\nMalawi Against Polio (MAP) -\nMalawi Broadcasting Corporation (MBC) -\nMalawi Chamber of Commerce and Industry -\nMalawi Congress Party (MCP) -\nMalawi Council for the Handicapped (MACOHA) -\nMalawi Democrat -\nMalawi Democratic Party (MDP) -\nMalawi Development Corporation (MDC) -\nMalawi Financial Post -\nMalawi Freedom Movement (MAFREMO) -\nMalawi Institute of Management (MIMS) -\nMalawi Investment Promotion Agency (MIPA) -\nMalawi National Examinations Board (MANEB) -\nMalawi Press -\nMalawi Rifles -\nMalawi Young Pioneers -\nMalawian kwacha -\nDaniel Sharpe Malekebu -\nMalemia -\nJustin Malewezi -\nJames Malinki -\nKalinde Morrison Malinki -\nDonald Malota -\nEdward Boti Manda -\nMandala -\nMang'anja -\nMangochi -\nMangochi District -\nTimom Mangwazu -\nHilda Manjamkhosi -\nMankhamba -\nWilliam Manning -\nManthimba -\nManufacturing in Malawi -\nJack Mapanje -\nJohn Gray Kufa Mapantha -\nChauncy Maples -\nMarambo -\nMaravi -\nMputa Maseko -\nMaseko Ngoni -\nThomas Mpeni Maseya -\nMassingire uprising -\nGordon Mataka -\nMatakenya -\nMatapwiri -\nHarry Kambwiri Matecheta -\nDick Matenje -\nGraziano Matewere -\nCharles Matinga -\nReginald Maudling -\nWilliam Alexander Maxwell -\nMbande Hill -\nJanet Mbekeani -\nWales Nyemba Mbekeani -\nMbombwe -\nM'bona cult -\nMbumba -\nMchape -\nMchinji -\nMchinji District -\nKambondoma Mhango -\nMkwapatila Mhango -\nRobert Sambo Mhango -\nIan Michael -\nMigrant labor in Malawi -\nMikuyu -\nMilitary of Malawi -\nMining in Malawi -\nMissions in Malawi -\nMitsidi -\nMkanda -\nDonton Mkandawire -\nFrank Mayinga Mkandawire -\nGrant Mikeya Mkandawire -\nJimmy Billy Mponda Mkandawire -\nMatupi Mkandawire -\nSimon Kamkhati Mkandawire -\nThandika Mkandawire -\nYaphet Mkandawire -\nJaphet Baminingo Mkandawiri -\nAndrew Mkochi -\nStephen Mkulitchi -\nMlanda -\nHarvey Mlanga -\nMargaret Jean Nanyoni Mlanga -\nPeter Mlelemba -\nMlonyeni -\nMlozi bin Kazbadema -\nMlumbe -\nMulungu dalitsa Malaŵi -\nM'mbewela -\nM'mbewela African Administrative Council -\nM'mbewela Ngoni -\nAugustine Mnthambala -\nMoano -\nFrederick Moir -\nMonckton Commission -\nMonkey Bay -\nMorinda asteroscepa -\nKgaleman T. Motsetse -\nPeter Moxon -\nAttati Mpakati -\nSamuel Mpasu -\nMpezeni; Ntuto -\nMpherembe -\nBrown James Mpinganjira -\nMpingo Wa Afipa -\nMponda -\nAndrew Jonathan Mponda -\nJimmy Mkandanwire Mponda -\nJ. Ellerton Mposa -\nChimwemwe Mputahelo -\nMsakambewa -\nMsimbi -\nMordicai Chiwerewere Msisha -\nStephen Kauta Msiska -\nSuzgo Msiska -\nJohn Dunstan Msonthi -\nAnastasia Msosa -\nJordan Msumba -\nAndrew George Nga Mtafu -\nBrain Mtawali -\nErnest M. Mtawali -\nMtegha Commission -\nCharles Mtemanyama -\nMekki Mtewa -\nEffie Fuyiwe Mtika -\nMthunthama -\nHarry Mtuwa -\nMtwalo I -\nMtwalo II -\nMua -\nMorton Chipimpha Mughogho -\nEneah Ferdinand Mulaga -\nMulanje -\nMulanje District -\nMulanje Massif -\nJ. V. Mullins -\nBakili Muluzi -\nLevi Zililo Mumba -\nMartin Machipisa Munthali -\nRodwell Watayachanga Munyenyembe -\nAndrew C. Murray -\nMusic of Malawi -\nFlax Katoba Musopole -\nYoram Musopole -\nElias Amin Mussa-Gama -\nBingu wa Mutharika -\nAlbert Muwalo -\nErnest Alexander Muwamba -\nIsaac Katongo Muwamba -\nJake Muwamba -\nYakobi Msusa Muwamba -\nMvera -\nAmon Mwakasungula -\nPeter Mwangalaba Mwakasungula, Kyungu -\nRaphael Kapote Mwakasungula -\nNdiche Mwalare -\nPatrick Rutherford Mwamulima -\nEsau Mwamwaya -\nJoseph Mwanjasi, Ntemi Kilupula -\nMwanza -\nMwanza District -\nMwanza incident -\nNelson Peter Mwanza -\nGeorge Simeon Mwase -\nMwase Kasungu -\nYesaya Zerenji Mwasi -\nMwavi -\nMwaya -\nAram Ndolezi Mwenisongole -\nMweniwanda -\nMwenzo -\nMzikubola -\nMzimba -\nMzimba District -\nMzuzu -\nMgozga Village -\n\nWenham Nakanga -\nNamadzi -\nAlbert Namalambe -\nNambuma -\nNamitete -\nNamiwawa, Blantyre -\nAlan Namoko -\nNamwanga -\nNamwera Planters Association -\nJoseph Nangalembe -\nNankhunda -\nNapolo -\nNasawa -\nNational Archives of Malawi (NAM) -\nNational Consultative Council (NCC) -\nNational Development Council (NDC) -\nNational Library Service (NLS) -\nNational parks in Malawi -\nNational Rural Development Program (NRDP) -\nNational Statistical Office (NSO) -\nNative Authority (NA) -\nNative Authority Ordinance, 1933 -\nNative Courts Ordinance, 1933 -\nNative Development and Welfare Fund -\nNatives on Private Estates Ordinance 1928 -\nNative Tobacco Board (NTB) -\nNative Trust Land -\nNchalo -\nSilas Ncozana -\nNdali -\nG. E. Ndema -\nChiwere Ndhlovu -\nNdirande -\nRaban Pemba Ndovi -\nNeno District\nJ. R. Ness -\nNewspapers in Malawi -\nNgamwane -\nIswani Ben Ngemela -\nNgerenge -\nNgonde -\nNgondoyi -\nNgoni -\nNguludi -\nShadrach Ngunana -\nJohn James Ngwiri -\nChipatula Nhlane -\nDaniel Nhlane -\nDuncan Njilima -\nFrederick Njilima -\nNjobvuyalema -\nNjuli -\nNjuyu -\nNkhamanga -\nAlick Nkhata -\nNkhata Bay -\nNkhata Bay District -\nNkhoma Mission -\nNkhotakota -\nDenis Nkhwazi -\nAndrew Nkonjera -\nNkope Bay -\nNkhotakota District -\nNkudzi Bay -\nNkula -\nHarry Mwaanga Nkumbula -\nNorth Charterland Exploration Company -\nNorth Nyasa Native Association -\nNorth Nyasa Native Reserves Commission -\nNorth Rukuru -\nNorth Co-operative Union -\nNorthern Rhodesia and Nyasaland Joint Publications Bureau -\nNsanje -\nNsanje District -\nNsenga -\nNsima -\nNsingu -\nHetherwick Maurice Ntaba -\nNtabeni -\nSamuel Joseph Ntara -\nNtcheu -\nNtcheu District -\nNtchisi -\nNtchisi District -\nAlice Ntholo -\nNacho Ntimawanzako -\nMapas Ntintili -\nNtondeza -\nJohn Joseph Nunan -\nNyakyusa -\nNyambadwe -\nPeter Nyambo -\nNyangu -\nNyanja -\nNyasa -\nNyasa Industrial Mission (NIM) -\nNyasaland -\nNyasaland African Congress (NAC) -\nNyasaland African Protective Association -\nNyasaland Black Man's Educational Society -\nNyasaland Constitutional Party -\nNyasaland Emergency 1959 -\nNyasaland Famine 1949 -\nNyasaland Indian Association -\nNyasaland Indian Traders Association (NITA) -\nNyasaland Planters Association -\nNyasaland Railway Company -\nNyasaland Tea Association (NTA) -\nNyasaland Times -\nAlec Mjuma Nyasulu -\nGeorge Nyasulu -\nPaddy Nyasulu -\nNyau -\nNyiha -\nNyika Plateau -\nBazaar Nyirenda -\nRobert Gwebe Nyirenda -\nSaulos Nyirende -\nTomo Nyirende -\nSamson Mbobe Nyondo -\nNzama -\nMunene Nzima -\nMatembo Nzunda -\nNgoma, Thomas Chikumukumu Okey -\n\nOblates of the Holy Family -\nOperation Bwezani -\nOrder of the Lion (Malawi) -\nOrmsby-Gore Commission -\nAlaudin Osman -\nLibert Oury -\nOvertoun Institution -\n\nPeter Qeko Jere-\nBridglal Pachai -\nAugusto Paolucci -\nPaseli brothers -\nMaxwell Katayeni Pashane -\nRolf Patel -\nFrancis Barrow Pearce -\nPeople's Democratic Party -\nFrancis Zaccheus Santiago Peregrino -\nE. C. Peterkins -\nTadeus Thomas Phaiya -\nPhalombe -\nPhalombe District -\nPhelps Stokes Commission -\nHenry Ellis Isidore Phillips -\nDesmond Dudwa Phiri -\nHanock Msokera Phiri -\nPhoka -\nPhwezi Education Foundation -\nAbdul Pilane -\nSerpa Pinto -\nPlainfield Industrial Mission -\nLaw enforcement in Malawi -\nPolitical dissidents in Malawi -\nPolitical parties in Malawi -\nWoodsworth Poole -\nTed Powell (National football coach, 1977–83) - \nPreferential trade area (PTA) -\nPrehistory of Malawi -\nPresidential Committee on Dialogue (PCD) -\nPress Holdings Ltd -\nJ. Lou Pretorius -\nAuguste Prezeau -\nProvidence Industrial Mission -\nPublic Affairs Committee (PAC) -\n\nRamakukan -\nWilliam H. J. Rangeley -\nReligion in Malawi -\nCecil Rhodes -\nRhodes-Livingstone Institute -\nRhodesia Native Labour Bureau (RNLB) -\nRice in Malawi -\nEdmund Charles Smith Richards -\nBryan Clieve Roberts -\nRubber in Malawi -\nRugaruga -\nRumphi -\nRumphi District -\nRural agricultural projects -\nRyall's Hotel -\n\nAlberto Sabbatini -\nAlick Baldwin Sambo -\nAbdul Sattar Sacrane -\nFern Najere Sadyalunda -\nSalim bin Abdalla -\nSalima District -\nGeorge Meredith Sanderson -\nJames Frederick Matewere Sangala -\nJonathan Douglas Sangaya -\nJan Matthew Schoffeleers -\nDavid Clement Ruffelle Scott -\nSena -\nSettlers' and Residents' Association of Nyasaland (SARAN) -\nAlfred Sharpe -\nEugene Sharrer -\nShire Highlands -\nShire Highlands Hotel -\nShire Highlands Planters' Association -\nShire Highlands Railway Company -\nShire River -\nShire Valley -\nMedson Evans Silombela -\nSkinner Report -\nGeorge Smith (Nyasaland) -\nSociety of Malawi; Nyasaland Society -\nSydney Somanje -\nSongwe River -\nSoghum in Malawi -\nSoseya -\nSouth Rukuru River -\nSouthern Africa Development Community (SADC) -\nSouthworth Commission -\nSpecial Branch -\nSt Michael and All Angels Church - \nFrancis Trant Stephens -\nJames Stewart (missionary) -\nSugar in Malawi -\nSukwa -\nSupreme Council of Chiefs and Congress -\nIshmael Kassim Surtee\n\nTamanda -\nTaxes in Malawi -\nTea in Malawi -\nJohn Zenas Ungapake Tembo -\nMawelera Tembo -\nTemporary Employment Bureau of Africa -\nTemwa -\nTengani -\nMolin Tengani -\nA. J. Tennant -\nThangata -\nJean-Baptist Theunissen -\nPeter Zimema Thole -\nThondeza -\nThondwe -\nFrank Oswald Thorne -\nGeofrey Thorneycroft -\nThyolo -\nThyolo District -\nDowns Stainer Theka -\nW. H. Timke -\nTobacco in Malawi -\nTobacco Association of Malawi (TAMA) -\nTourism in Malawi -\nWilliam George Tozer -\nTransportation in Malawi -\nTraditional Courts in Malawi -\nNicholas Trataris -\nTumbuka -\nTung in Malawi -\nHezekeya Mavuvu Tweya -\nThumbi FP School\n\nUlambya -\nUndali -\nUngonde -\nUngoni -\nUnited Democratic Front (UDF) -\nUnited Federal Party (UFP) -\nUnited Party (UP) -\nUniversities' Mission to Central Africa (UMCA) -\nUniversity of Malawi -\nUnyakyusa -\nUnyiha -\nUsisya -\n\nHazen Leroy Vail -\nLeroy Vail -\nViphya Highlands -\nViphya pulpwood scheme -\nMV Viphya -\nVizara -\nSS Von Wissmann -\nEugene Vroemen -\n\nRoy W. Wallace -\nHorace Wallace -\nGeorge Williams Wauchope -\nWatchtower movement; Kitawala -\nJane Waterston -\nRoy Welensky -\nWhite Fathers -\nKarl Wiese -\nWilliam Wigan -\nAnton Winnen -\nWitwatersrand Native Labour Association (WNLA) -\nWomen in Malawi -\n\nYanu Yanu Bus Company -\nYao -\nNicholas Yiannakis -\nPeter William Youens -\nEdward Daniel Young -\nHubert Winthrop Young -\nThomas Cullen Young -\nWilliam Paulin Young -\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10611181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10611181", "title": "International Council on Mining and Metals", "text": "International Council on Mining and Metals\n\nThe International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) was founded in 2001 to improve sustainable development performance in the mining and metals industry.\n\nIn 2001 the International Council on Mining and Metals were developed to bring many different mining companies together and increase performance measures and development in this sector. The ICMM's main goal is to create new opportunities in the mining sector, and overcome many challenges that will be presented in the future. ICMM are looking for ways to continually improve the sector and bring the many issues to the forefront to be resolved in the future. Another goal of ICMM is to work alongside all their shareholders and in turn create new and prosperous relationships with them. They feel that creating a identity with other companies and shareholders will boost there overall public image and help them meet their goals.\n\nThe ICMM has developed 10 principles to which member companies must adhere. These considerations resulted from a survey of concerned parties both within and outside the council. They seek to comply and reinforce guidelines established by organizations including the OECD and the World Bank.\n\n\nThe International Council on Mining and Metals has a list of core values that include;\n\nICMM are currently working on many programs and activities involving a broad number of companies and organizations. Currently they are dealing with a number of work programs, that involves climate change, socio-economic development, and heath and safety to name a few. These work programs help develop sustainable activities with the environment around them and are built around health and safety of people who are involved. These programs set new standards of communication between companies and will help with future development in the mining and material sector. Opening the door for new innovations and more sustainable work practices for everybody, and promote active participation with as many people as they can to further develop their company.\n\nICMM is a well developed company who are involved with many projects and companies spanning around the world. Their ongoing success is due to the overall market coverage they have and they aim to continue and expand even more. There many projects around the world include North, South and Central America, Asia, Africa, Europe, and the Middle East.\n\nAccording to data from 2013; ICMM operates in 59 countries and are responsible for a huge amount of global mineral production.\n\n"}
{"id": "57987820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57987820", "title": "Julian Agyeman", "text": "Julian Agyeman\n\nJulian Agyeman is Professor of Urban and Environmental Policy and Planning at Tufts University, and co-founder and editor-in-chief of \"Local Environment: The International Journal of Justice and Sustainability\". He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts and the Royal Geographical Society. \n\nIn the early 2000s, Agyeman developed the concept of \"just sustainabilities\", defined as “the need to ensure a better quality of life for all, now, and into the future, in a just and equitable manner, whilst living within the limits of supporting ecosystems”. His book on the subject, \"Introducing Just Sustainabilities: Policy, Planning, and Practice\", is widely used at universities.\n\nAgyeman received a B.Sc. with Joint Honors in Geography and Botany from Durham University in 1980, an M.A. in Conservation Policy from Middlesex University in 1987 and a Ph.D. in Environmental Education/Urban Studies from the University of London in 1996.\n\nIncluding his books and journal articles, Agyeman has over 150 publications in his field. His article, \"Mind the Gap: Why do people act environmentally and what are the barriers to pro-environmental behavior?\", published in \"Environmental Education Research\", is the most cited journal article by a North American urban planning scholar. His publications have led him to be ranked as one of the top 15 most highly cited urban planning faculty in North America. His work integrates multiple academic disciplines, including geography, urban policy and planning, environmental justice, and sustainability.\n\nBooks\n\nCo-authored books\n\nCo-edited books\n\n\nHe is a Fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts (1996) and the Royal Geographical Society (2016). He received the Benton H. Box Award from Clemson University Institute for Parks in 2015 and the Athena City Accolade from the KTH Royal Institute of Technology.\n\nAgyeman has been a visiting professor at University of South Australia (2008-13), Northumbria University (2010-14), University of British Columbia (April-May 2011) and McGill University (2017-18); he also held the Walker Ames Visiting Professorship at the University of Washington (2017).\nHe also held a Visiting Fellowship at The Pacific Institute for Climate Solutions, hosted by the University of Victoria (2011). Agyeman was a Senior Scholar at The Center for Humans and Nature (2013-16) and a Fellow of the McConnell Foundation's Cities for People program in Montréal (2017).\n\n"}
{"id": "32411133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32411133", "title": "Kenneth C. Martis", "text": "Kenneth C. Martis\n\nKenneth C. Martis is an American political geographer notable for his mapping and documentation of the electoral history of the United States. He is a Professor Emeritus in the Department of Geology and Geography at West Virginia University.\n\nMartis was born in Toledo, Ohio in December 1945. His four grandparents and father were immigrants from Slovakia. Martis obtained a B.Ed. degree from The University of Toledo in 1968 and a M.A. in geography from San Diego State College (later San Diego State University) in 1970. In 1975 he joined the faculty of West Virginia University and the next year received his Ph.D. in geography from the University of Michigan, studying under political geographer George Kish.\n\nMartis is the author or co-author of eight award winning books on the United States Congress and American politics. The first book in his series of historical political atlases, \"\", was designated a Selected Reference Book by the journal \"College and Research Libraries\" and won the American Historical Association's Waldo G. Leland Prize for the best reference book in all fields of history for the period 1981-1986. The Atlas was the first book in American history to map every congressional district for every election and catalog all state redistricting laws. Based on the archival work for this book, Martis and Ruth A. Rowles were awarded the 1984 Organization of American Historian's Charles Thomson Prize for their article \"Mapping Congress: Developing a Geographic Understanding of American Political History.\"\n\nThe Thirty-seventh Congress illustration is an example of the congressional district boundary maps found in \"\". In the atlas there are ninety-seven national scale district maps, one for each of the first ninety-seven House of Representatives. The Thirty-seventh House (1861-1863) was primarily elected in 1860 and is the first House to convene during the Civil War. The striped areas designate districts in the eleven seceded states which did not send representatives to the United States Congress. However, the House did certify and seat ten “Unionist” members from three seceded states, five from Virginia, three from western Tennessee and two from southern Louisiana (elected after the New Orleans area was occupied). On the page opposite of each map is an alphabetical list of all who served in the House with their state and congressional district number or designation (note in the Thirty-seventh House illustration two members from Minnesota and three from California were not elected from districts but on a General Ticket, that is, statewide). Insert maps are used to illustrate very small districts in densely populated urban areas. Information is found at the bottom of each map giving the session dates, total number of representatives, Speaker, newly admitted states, and map notes indicating vacancies throughout the Congress and any significant state or national boundary changes.\n\nIn 1989 the second book in his series of political atlases was published, \"\". The atlas was the first in American history to map all congressional elections for every state and district and identify the political party affiliation of every person elected to Congress from 1788. The Library Journal designated the political party atlas as one of the Best Reference Books of 1989 and College and Research Libraries named it a Selected Reference Book of 1989-90. The Library of Congress selected the political cartography from this work as the centerpiece of its main exhibition \"Tides of Party Politics: Two Centuries of Congressional Elections\" celebrating of the 1989 bicentennial of the United States Congress. The data developed for this work is now considered the standard source of political party affiliation of members of Congress by the official \"Biographical Directory of the United States Congress\". In 2013 an article in Real Clear Politics selected the political party atlas as one of the 15 most influential/indispensable books on the subject of American election analysis (ranked #10).The Eightieth Congress illustration is an example of the election maps found in . In the atlas there are one hundred large national four-color district election maps for the House of Representatives, and one hundred smaller state election maps for the Senate, for each of the first one hundred congresses. The maps are based upon the results tabulated on the regular Election Day. The Eightieth Congress (1947-1949) was a midterm election, with voting taking place on November 5, 1946 (Maine September 9, 1946). On the large House map blue indicates districts electing a Republican and red designates districts electing a Democrat. Insert maps are used to illustrate the results in very small districts in densely populated urban areas. The atlas identifies and maps all third party members elected to Congress in American history. In the Eightieth House one third party representative was elected, an American-Labor Party candidate from the 18th District of New York. The percentage pie chart on the lower right gives a visual view and specific numbers for the partisan divide in each House. The map and pie chart on the lower left show the geographical pattern and partisan make-up of the Senate. The blue states have two Republican senators, red states two Democrats, and striped states one each. On the page opposite of the map page is a state by state list of all who served in the House and Senate, including replacements by special election or appointment, with their proper state and congressional district number and party affiliation (note in the Eightieth House illustration two representatives from both Arizona and New Mexico were not elected from districts but on a General Ticket, that is, statewide). The atlas facilitates comparisons with the previous Seventy-ninth Congress, and subsequent Eighty-first Congress, and all other congresses, in both geographic pattern and partisan divide. The geographical pattern shown for the Eightieth Congress is a classic post-Civil War regional division of the solid Democratic South and solid Republican North, with some Democrats elected from large urban areas. \nIn 1993 his third book on Congress, co-authored with Gregory A. Elmes, \"The Historical Atlas of State Power in Congress: 1790-1990\" was published. This work maps and analyzes every apportionment change for every state for all of United States history. This work won the 1993 Washington Book Publishers award for best book design.\n\nIn 1994 \"The Historical Atlas of the Congresses of the Confederate States of America: 1861-1865\" was published. This book is the first nonmilitary nonbattlefield atlas of the American Civil War. The American Library Association, Choice Magazine, designated this work an Outstanding Academic Book of 1994. \n\nDuring the Civil War the Confederate Constitution set up a government with a president and a legislature, which was composed of a Senate and House of Representatives. The Confederate congressional atlas maps the districts, characteristics, elections and roll call voting behavior of this institution. The illustration shows the Union occupation status of the 106 districts of the Confederate House of Representatives in late 1863 and early 1864. Note the Confederacy admitted the slave states of Missouri and Kentucky, and they had full voting rights in the Confederate Congress, in spite of being Union controlled virtually from the beginning of the war, and in spite of their continued representation in the United States Congress. At the end of the First Confederate Congress only a little over a half of the House districts (52.8%) were unoccupied. The Union occupied areas mostly supported the increasingly stringent legislative proposals of Confederate President Jefferson Davis with respect to measures like conscription, impressment and habeas corpus. In other words, Confederate congressmen from occupied districts tended to support increasing conscription knowing men from their areas would not be subject, but many representatives from unoccupied districts tended to vote no, knowing men from their areas would bear the brunt of being drafted.\n\nIn 2002 the \"Atlas of American Politics: 1960-2000\", was published, which Martis co-authored with J. Clark Archer, Stephen J. Lavin, and Fred M. Shelley. This atlas won the American Library Association Outstanding Academic Book Award of 2003. In 2006 he co-authored the \"Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections: 1788-2004\" with the same collaborators; it was the first county four-color atlas of all American presidential elections. In 2006 the Atlas was awarded the Library Journal Best Reference Book prize and the Association of American Publishers Outstanding Single Volume Reference Book in the Humanities & Social Sciences recognition. His most recent two books are co-edited works, \"Atlas of the 2012 Elections\" and \"Atlas of the 2016 Elections\". These atlases cover a myriad geographical aspects of the fall 2012 and 2016 elections on the national, regional, state and county level, and each contain nearly 200 maps, graphs and illustrations.\n\nIn 1987 he was a Fulbright Scholar in Perugia, Italy studying the Italian electoral system at the \"Universitá per Stranieri\". In 2001 he was interviewed for the distinguished \"Geographers on Film\" series that highlights the career and work of notable American geographers. Kenneth C. Martis is a Professor Emeritus of Geography at West Virginia University and is the first awardee of that institution's highest academic honor, Benedum Distinguished Scholar. He was awarded the 2007 US/West Virginia Professor of the Year Award by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), Washington, DC.\n\nFor his work on the historical geography of Congress and American politics he has received support from the National Endowment for the Humanities, National Science Foundation, Association of American Geographers, Everett McKinley Dirksen Congressional Leadership Research Center, Huntington Library, and the Newberry Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "625551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625551", "title": "Land claim", "text": "Land claim\n\nA land claim is a legal declaration of desired control over areas of property, including bodies of water. The phrase is usually only used with respect to disputed or unresolved land claims. Some types of land claims include aboriginal land claims, Antarctic land claims, and post-colonial land claims.\n\nLand claims is sometimes used as a term when referring to disputed territories like Western Sahara or to refer to the claims of displaced persons. \n\nIn the colonial times of the United States American men could claim a piece of land for themselves and the claim has different level of merit according to the de facto conditions:\n\nToday, only small areas of unclaimed land remain, yet large plots of land with little economical value (e.g., in Alaska) can still be bought for very low prices. Also, in certain parts of the world, land can still be obtained by making productive use of it.\n\nA mining claim is the claim of the right to extract minerals from a tract of public land. In the United States, the practice began with the California gold rush of 1849. In the absence of effective government, the miners in each new mining camp made up their own rules, and chose to essentially adopt Mexican mining law then in effect in California. The Mexican law gave the right to mine to the first one to discover the mineral deposit and begin mining it. The area that could be claimed by one person was limited to that which could be mined by a single individual or a small group.\n\nThe US system of mining claims is an application of the legal theory of \"prior appropriation\", by which public property is granted to the first one to put it to beneficial use. Other applications of appropriation theory were the Homestead Act, which granted public land to farmers, and water rights in the west.\n\nThe California miners spread the concept of mining claims to other mining districts all over the western United States. The US Congress legalized the practice in 1866, and amended it in the Mining Act of 1872. All land in the public domain, that is, federal land whose use has not been restricted by the government to some specific purpose, was subject to being claimed. The mining law has been changed numerous times, but still retains some features similar to those settled on by the California 49ers.\n\nThe concept was also used in other countries, for example during the Australian gold rushes which occurred at a similar time starting from the 1850s, and included similar groups of people including miners that migrated from the American gold rushes. The Oriental Claims in Victoria are one example of this.\n\nStaking a claim involves first the discovery of a valuable mineral in quantities that a \"prudent man\" (the Prudent Man Rule) would invest time and expenses to recover. Next, marking the claim boundaries, typically with wooden posts or capped steel posts, which must be four feet tall, or stone cairns, which must be three feet tall. Finally, filing a claim with both the land management agency (USFS or BLM), and the local county registrar.\n\nThere are four main types of mining claims: \n\nA mining claim always starts out as an unpatented claim. The owner of an unpatented claim must continue mining or exploration activities on an unpatented claim, or he may pay a fee to the land management agency by September 1 of each year, or it is considered abandoned and becomes null. Activities on unpatented claims must be restricted to those necessary to mining. A patented claim is one for which the federal government has issued a \"patent\" (deed). To obtain a patent, the owner of a mining claim must prove to the federal government that the claim contains locatable minerals that can be extracted at a profit. A patented claim can be used for any purpose desired by the owner, just like any other real estate. However, Congress has ceased funding for the patenting process, so at this time a claim cannot be patented.\n\n"}
{"id": "54306184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54306184", "title": "List of Daytime Emmy Awards received by Netflix", "text": "List of Daytime Emmy Awards received by Netflix\n\nThe Daytime Emmy Award is an American accolade bestowed by the New York–based National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences in recognition of excellence in American daytime television programming.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165102", "title": "List of Presidents of Venezuela", "text": "List of Presidents of Venezuela\n\nUnder the Venezuelan Constitution, the President of Venezuela is the head of state and head of government of Venezuela. As chief of the executive branch and face of the government as a whole, the presidency is the highest political office in the country by influence and recognition. The president is also the commander-in-chief of the National Bolivarian Armed Forces of Venezuela. The president is directly elected through a popular vote to a six-year term. Since the 2009 constitutional referendum, any person can be elected to the office an indefinite number of times. Upon the death, resignation, or removal from office of an incumbent president, the vice president assumes the office. The president must be at least 30 years of age, and has to be a \"natural born\" citizen of Venezuela, and cannot possess any other citizenship.\n\nThis list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the establishment of the independent State of Venezuela, which took place on January 13, 1830. There have been 46 people sworn into office, and 64 presidencies, as several politicians (most prominently between 1830 and 1953) have held the office more than once. José Antonio Páez, the first president, was inaugurated in 1830. Antonio Guzmán Blanco served during the most number of terms, with three. Juan Vicente Gómez has served during the longest (although interrupted by interim presidencies), with over 27 years. Hugo Chávez served the longest uninterrupted period in office with 11 consecutive years, starting after his restoration to power in April 2002 and until his death in March 2013. The current president, Nicolás Maduro, was elected to his first term in 2013.\n\nThe presidential designation encompasses only those persons who were sworn into office as President of Venezuela following Venezuela's declaration of independence from Spanish colonial rule, which took effect on July 5, 1811. The first president, taking office on July 5, 1811, was actually the president of a triumvirate of the first established Republic of Venezuela that rotated the presidency weekly. The person serving as president during the week of July 5 was one of the three signatories of the Declaration of Independence: Cristóbal Mendoza. Mendoza shared the triumvirate with Juan Escalona and Baltasar Padrón. A second triumvirate followed on April 3, 1812 whose members were Francisco Espejo, Fernando Toro and Francisco Javier Ustariz.\n\nOwing to the profound confusion of the Venezuelan War of Independence and the period of Gran Colombia over what is now Venezuela, this page has gaps between 1813 and 1819. For this period in time, historians refer to the Republic of Venezuela as the Second Republic of Venezuela (1813–1814) and the Third Republic of Venezuela (1817–1819) as Simon Bolivar twice reestablished the republic. The Congress of Angostura appointed Simón Bolívar \"Supreme Commander of the Republic of Venezuela\" (Jefe Supremo de la República de Venezuela) from 1819 until 1830.\n\nIn 1830, José Antonio Páez declared Venezuela independent from Gran Colombia and became president, taking office on January 13, 1830. Although he was not the first president of Venezuela (having in mind Cristóbal Mendoza in 1811), he was the first head of state of independent Venezuela, after the dissolution of Gran Colombia.\n\nThe list below includes interim \"caretaker\" as well as regular serving presidents, and democratically installed presidents as well as those installed by other means (e.g.; Marcos Pérez Jiménez).\n\nVenezuela took the name of Republic of Venezuela () with the adoption of the 1953 constitution, written by the Constituent Assembly elected in November 1952. The Presidents of Venezuela under this constitution (as well as the 1961 Constitution, which kept the name) were officially styled as President of the Republic of Venezuela.\n\nThis period of the history of Venezuela began with the presidency of Marcos Pérez Jiménez, widely perceived to be a dictator. After a short period of political instability following Pérez Jiménez's exile in 1958, democracy was restored in the country with the election of Democratic Action leader Rómulo Betancourt as President in 1959. This marked the beginning of the so-called Punto Fijo Pact, which was characterized by the prevalence of the bipartidism of the two main political parties in the country at the time, Democratic Action and Copei.\n\nThe second presidency of Carlos Andrés Pérez (1989–93) saw a deep economic crisis, major riots in which hundreds were killed by security forces (the Caracazo, 1989), two coup attempts in 1992, and the 1993 impeachment of Pérez. That same year, Rafael Caldera became the first President of Venezuela not to belong to either Democratic Action or Copei in over forty years, having been elected under the banner of National Convergence. The Punto Fijo Pact ended in 2000 when a new constitution entered in force.\n\nVenezuela became the \"Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela\" () with the adoption of the 1999 constitution, which renamed the country in honor of Simón Bolívar. The new constitution was promulgated by President Hugo Chávez, who served \"de jure\" from 1999 until his death in 2013. The new constitution augmented the presidential term from five years to six years.\n\nChávez's presidency was interrupted shortly in 2002 following a failed coup d'état attempt that put Pedro Carmona in office for a day. After government-loyal forces ousted Carmona from Miraflores, Vice President Diosdado Cabello assumed executive control for a couple of hours until Chávez could be restored. In 2009, a constitutional referendum approved the elimination of term limits, which allowed Chávez to be re-elected again in 2012. However, Chávez died in March 2013, only three months into his fourth term, and was succeeded by his Vice President Nicolás Maduro, who was elected the following month to finish Chávez's term, enforcing the majority of Chávez's economic policies.\n\nUnder Maduro, Venezuela has seen a rise in unemployment, shortages of goods, closures of several corporations, and the deterioration of productivity. Maduro – who has seen a sharp decline in his approval ratings in correlation to the economic collapse, and was the subject of a 2016 recall referendum to remove him from office that was later suspended – has been criticized for what opponents consider to be him backsliding the country towards a full-fledged authoritarian regime; this led to an ongoing constitutional crisis stemming from a March 2017 ruling by the Supreme Tribunal of Justice (whose members largely consist of Maduro supporters) that removed immunity for National Assembly members (including those opposing Maduro), which subsequently made a brief assumption of legislative powers from the Assembly, and the Constituent Assembly election, which resulted in the formation of a Constituent Assembly intended to rewrite the 1999 constitution. These actions have worsened tensions and sparked violence during protests against the Maduro administration over concerns that Maduro would eliminate or significantly erode Venezuela's democratic institutions and shift the country towards one-man rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8354261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8354261", "title": "List of The Vicar of Dibley episodes", "text": "List of The Vicar of Dibley episodes\n\n\"The Vicar of Dibley\" is a British sitcom which premiered on BBC One on 10 November 1994. From 1994 to 1998, two series and two specials had been produced and broadcast. No further series were produced. Following this, a number of specials were broadcast. Over the seasonal period between Christmas 1999 and early 2000, four specials aired. This collection of specials are often referred to as the third series, however, it was not produced as an official series. Another four specials were aired between 2004/2005 and 2006/2007. The series ended on 1 January 2007. This was, however, followed by three short Comic Relief episodes, aired on 16 March 2007, 15 March 2013 and 13 March 2015. In all, 20 episodes and six shorter Comic Relief specials have been produced.\n\n"}
{"id": "755797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=755797", "title": "List of United Kingdom county name etymologies", "text": "List of United Kingdom county name etymologies\n\nThis toponymical list of counties of the United Kingdom is a list of the origins of the names of counties of the United Kingdom. For England and Wales it includes ancient and contemporary counties.\n\nThroughout the histories of the four countries of the United Kingdom, a variety of languages have been used to name places. These languages were often used in parallel with each other. As a result, it is often difficult to assess the genuine etymology of a placename, hence some of the entries below are assigned more than one meaning, depending on which language was used to originally give the place its name. One of the most common words used in county names in the United Kingdom is the suffix \"shire\". This is a West Saxon word meaning \"division\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36271563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36271563", "title": "List of football clubs in Niue", "text": "List of football clubs in Niue\n\nThis is a list of association football clubs in Niue.\n\n"}
{"id": "29535601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29535601", "title": "List of life zones by region", "text": "List of life zones by region\n\nThe climate and ecology of different locations on the globe naturally separate into life zones, depending on elevation, location, and latitude. The generally strong dependency on elevation is known as altitudinal zonation: the average temperature of a location decreases as the elevation increases.\n\nThe general effect of elevation depends on atmospheric physics. However, the specific climate and ecology of any particular location depends on specific features of that location. This article provides a list of life zones by region, in order to illustrate the features of life zones for regions around the globe.\n\n\n\nClassic Version - Regions of the Amazonic Side\n\nKilimanjaro, Tanzania () & Mount Kenya, Kenya, ()\n\n\nVulcano Kibo - Uhuru Peak, 5,895 m rock and ice. As the conifers are absent, the Tree line is lower.\n\nIn the altitudes between 3,400 meters (11,000 feet) and 4,500 meters (15,000 feet) some of the most extreme examples of adaptations can be found. At altitudes below 3,400 meters (12,000 feet) the daily temperature fluctuations are less extreme, the average daily temperature steadily increases, and the growth forms and ecology of the \"Dendroseneico\" reflect the increased influence of biotic factors (such as competition for light) over abiotic factors (such as nightly frost).\n\nThe Jade Dragon Snow Mountains contain the glacier nearest of the Equator on the North Hemisphere. The landmarks 4,506 m and 4,680 m at the end of the glacier can be achieved through the cable car from Ganhaizi (Tibetan for dry lake, a grassland with conifers at 3,400 m). The mountain desert begins around 4,000 m. The Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan (UNESCO World Heritage Site) encompasses the watershed areas of the Yangtze (Jinsha), Mekong (Lan Cang) and Salween (Nujiang) rivers and is the joint of the Palearctic ecozone and the Indomalaya ecozone.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34198900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34198900", "title": "List of post-nominal letters (Solomon Islands)", "text": "List of post-nominal letters (Solomon Islands)\n"}
{"id": "996847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996847", "title": "List of postal codes in Brazil", "text": "List of postal codes in Brazil\n\nThis list of postal codes in Brazil covers Brazil's Código de Endereçamento Postal (CEP), which is the Brazilian postal code. In 1993, the eight-digit form was introduced; prior to 1993, the Brazilian postal codes used the five-digit form. Correios is the state-owned company which provides postal services in Brazil.\n\n\nListing code ranges by first level oficial administrative division of Brasil (as ) and 5-digit groups (mapping to second level administrative division where it makes sense).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n41340-xxx - Fazenda Grande 1\nitamara ju\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n[also displayed as 80.xxx-xxx]\n\n\n\n\n\n\n90150-XXX - Porto Alegre\n91770-XXX - Porto Alegre (Aberta dos Morros)\n\n• 92500-0008 Guaíba\n\n\nCachoeirinha 94900\nGravataí 94000\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Brazilian postal codes for the state of São Paulo are arranged in regions, the 00000s to 09000s are reserved for the São Paulo metropolitan region and its suburbs, the 00000s through 05000s are for the city of São Paulo, the 06000s are founded in the area west/southwest of the city of São Paulo, the 07000s and 08000s are founded in the eastern suburbs and the 09000s are founded in the area southeast suburbs ABC Region of São Paulo, the 11000s are for the southeastern and the eastern parts of the state as well as in the area around Santos, the 12000s are used for the eastern part of the state, the 13000s are used in the central part of the state, the 14000s are used in the northeastern part of the state, the 15000s are mainly used in the northwestern part of the state, the 16000s are not used, the 17000s are used in the northwestern part of the state, the 18000s are used in the southern and the southwestern parts of the state and the 19000s are used in the western part of the state.\n\n\n+949+54+94+94 FEK U\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nList of dialling codes in Brazil\n\n"}
{"id": "48304357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48304357", "title": "List of streets at CERN", "text": "List of streets at CERN\n\nThe European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) is an international, intergovernmental organisation. Its activities are carried out on land placed at its disposal by the Canton of Geneva, the Swiss Confederation and France. In accordance with the agreements reached between France, Switzerland and CERN governing the organisation's legal status, the CERN site is placed under the authority and control of the Director-General as the organisation's chief executive officer. The latter is thus empowered to issue internal rules applicable to all persons entering the CERN site and intended to establish thereon the conditions necessary for the exercise of its functions.\n\nCERN street names were for a long time an internal matter to the organisation. In 2013 the Canton of Geneva officially recognised CERN street names.\n"}
{"id": "39737939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39737939", "title": "Manawaiopuna Falls", "text": "Manawaiopuna Falls\n\nManawaiopuna Falls (colloquially known as Jurassic Falls) is a privately owned waterfall in the Hawaiian Islands, located in Hanapepe Valley on Kauai Island. It is tall. It featured in the background of several scenes in the 1993 Steven Spielberg film \"Jurassic Park\".\n\nThe waterfall is only accessible by helicopter. Landing near the falls was forbidden until 2009, after which Island Helicopters was allowed to land a limited number of times per week.\n"}
{"id": "3386148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3386148", "title": "Mapping Services Agreement", "text": "Mapping Services Agreement\n\nThe Mapping Services Agreement (MSA) is a licensing contract between local authorities in the United Kingdom and suppliers of geographic data. Most of its contents are covered by commercial in confidence requirements. The general outcome of the MSA, however, is the supply of geographic data to local authorities and the defining of licensing issues regarding address data.\n\nThe MSA replaced an existing agreement for the supply of geographic data between local authorities, police, fire and other emergency services, and the national mapping agency, Ordnance Survey (OS). It also complied with European Union rules on procurement. As a result, suppliers of geographic information had to go through a process of open procurement managed on behalf of local authorities by the IDeA, an umbrella government organisation coordinating and promoting local authority good practice.\n\nThe result was that three suppliers were selected: Ordnance Survey, Intermap and Intelligent Addressing. For local authorities this meant little change in the supply of mapping data which continued to be supplied by OS. Intermap, however, supplied height data not previously covered by other arrangements.\n\nPerhaps the most significant outcome of the MSA is the resolution of ownership, licensing and royalty issues that had existed between local authorities and OS. In the agreement the address databases (called Local Land and Property Gazetteers – LLPG) maintained by local authorities acknowledged the partial input of OS's address product, Address Point to these databases. In effect local authorities became \"value added resellers\" of ADDRESS-POINT and are required to pay OS royalties for the proportion of their use of the OS product.\n\nThe agreement also puts into place funding for the National Land and Property Gazetteer (NLPG), the UK's national address infrastructure, which is made up of the LLPGs compiled by local authorities. It also enables the NLPG to compel local authorities to maintain their LLPGs and thus ensure the nationwide coverage and compliance by local authorities.\n\nThe Mapping Services Agreement contract expired on 31 March 2012 and was replaced by the Data Co-operation Agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "7335204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7335204", "title": "Martin J. Pasqualetti", "text": "Martin J. Pasqualetti\n\nMartin J. \"Mike\" Pasqualetti is a professor of geography in the School of Geographical Sciences and Urban Planning at Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona. He is also a member of the graduate faculty on Global Technology and Development at ASU Polytechnic, and a Senior Sustainability Scholar the Global Institute of Sustainability. He pioneered the study of \"Energy Landscapes,\" which interprets the role of human energy demand in reshaping natural landscapes.\n\nPasqualetti received his B.A. in Geography from the University of California, Berkeley; his M.A. in Geography and Anthropology from LSU in Baton Rouge, and his Ph.D. from the University of California, Riverside.\n\nHe was appointed twice by two different Arizona governors as chair of the Arizona Solar Energy Advisory Council. He is regarded as an expert on renewable energy and energy ties between the United States and Mexico. He was an appointed member of the Arizona Board of Geographic and Historic Names, leading the successful effort to change the name of a Phoenix landmark from Squaw Peak to Piestewa Peak in honor of Lori Piestewa, the first Native American women to be killed in action.\n\nDr. Pasqualetti has published books on wind power, nuclear power plant decommissioning, nuclear energy hazards, landscape development, and 75 articles on energy and other topics, including solar energy, wind energy, geothermal energy, nuclear energy, oil sands, energy security, and energy landscapes. The following is a selection of his published work:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36762761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36762761", "title": "Maru, Kathmandu", "text": "Maru, Kathmandu\n\nMaru (Devanagari: मरु) is a historical neighborhood in central Kathmandu, Nepal and one of the most important cultural spots in the city. It is linked with the origin of the name Kathmandu, and forms part of what is generically known as Durbar Square (including Kathmandu Durbar Square, Patan Durbar Square, and Bhaktapur Durbar Square), the old royal palace complexes of temples, shrines and palace buildings all of which have been declared UNESCO World Heritage Sites.\n\nMaru is also a market square, a venue for religious festivals and a celebrated residential quarter. It is a crossroads where two ancient trade routes connecting India and Tibet intersect.\n\nMaru consists of a large square encircled by temples and rest houses. It presents an example of a temple square typical of traditional Newar urban planning. Streets radiate out from the square, and inconspicuous entryways lead to residential courtyards that are home to silversmiths and other craftsmen.\n\nThe square is dominated by the massive pagoda roofs of Maru Satah (मरु सत:) (Kasthamandap) which stands on the northern side of the square. Built in the 12th century, it houses a shrine of Gorakhnath. It was erected as a shelter for travellers on the trade route, and assumed its present shape in the 17th century. The name Kathmandu is derived from Kasthamandap.\nOn the eastern side stands Dhansā Degah (धन्सा देग:) (alternative name: Dhunsar), a 17th-century pagoda-shaped building. Its carved wood windows provide a specimen of the art of woodworking which has been highly developed in the Kathmandu Valley since ancient times. The upper part was destroyed in the great earthquake of 1934, and its height was shortened when it was repaired. It was originally a courthouse. A shrine to Nāsa Dya (नास: द्य:), the god of music, exists on the ground floor.\n\nSilyan Sata (सिँल्यं सत:) (alternative name Singha Satah) on the southern side of the square dates from the 17th century. It contains shops on the ground floor and a hymn singing hall on the upper floor.\n\nGakuti (गकुति) is a three-sided courtyard on the western side of Maru. There is a temple dedicated to Mahadev at the center.\n\nLakhu Phalechā (लखु फलेचा), a roadside shelter at the corner of an alley at the southwest of Maru, is linked with the founding of Nepal Sambat. This is where the porters from Bhaktapur are said to have rested with their loads of sand. The procession of the goddess Dāgin, which is held during the Yenya festival, starts from this house.\nThe temple of Maru Ganeshya (मरु गनेद्य:) on the northern side of Maru Sata is one of the more important Ganesh shrines in Kathmandu. A notable feature of this temple is the absence of the usual pinnacle.\n\nMaruhiti (मरुहिति) is a celebrated stone water spout on an alley at the northwest of Maru. The alley was once famed by its nickname Pie Alley for the many pie shops here during the hippie days of the 1960s and 1970s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1933024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933024", "title": "Menaceur", "text": "Menaceur\n\nMenaceur is a small town and commune in Algeria, situated about 100 km west of Algiers. Menaceur has a population of 40,000. The Bouchanoun River passes through Menaceur. Nearby mountains include Zabrir, el Pic, Boumaad, and Tizi Franco. \n\nMenaceur is known for its fight against French colonization. Tizi Franco, where French troops were ambushed in 1957, deeply influenced French army tactics in the region.\n1 - Introduction\n\nFollowing the example of resistance, popular uprisings and revolts that marked the nineteenth century and encompassed various parts of Algeria, the resistance of Beni Menaceur, Miliana and Cherchell between July 14 and August 21, 1871 was the One of the links in the chain revolts. Like all revolutions that preceded it, it was underpinned by the causes and circumstances which, although they were mostly particular, remain virtually unchanged. 2 - Because of the resistance of Beni Menaceur Among the main reasons that prompted the outbreak of the revolt, is the policy of colonialism french based on injustice, oppression, repression and the plundering of private and public property, along with the adoption by the French authorities of the policy of \"divide and conquer\" in an attempt to reconcile the benevolence of some families which it entrusted the mission to look after its interests at the expense of the majority of residents. In this region, the colonial authorities were able to create from scratch a conflict between two Algerian families: on the one hand that of Brahim Sa'îd ibn Mohammed El Ghobrini, which was one of the families from the outset collaborated with the authorities Tenure and taken up arms against the Titteri Bey and the Bey Boumezrag and another family of El Berkani whose stronghold was located Miliana and which was headed by Sheikh al Malek ibn al Berkani Sahraoui, nephew Mohammed Ben Aissa el Berkani, khalifa (*) The Emir Abdelkader in Titteri. Following France's policy, the two families went down in a bloody conflict all that the family commissioned an El Berkani eastern part of Beni Menaceur, something that El Ghobrini the family did not accept. To this should be added the suffering of the people of Cherchell Miliana and as a result of the colonial policy based on the forced collection of taxes, which drain resources and damage to their most sacred values in matters of religion. 3 - Steps resistance Beni Ménaceur The first spark of resistance springs on April 30, 1871 when the colonial authorities undertook to provoke the people by ordering gang bosses that they were subjected to collect the taxes without taking into account the tragic conditions of the inhabitants. Residents expressed their refusal by hunting with stones agents of colonialism. -- 1 - First step: The chouyouks (*) of Beni Menaceur found it necessary to hold an extraordinary meeting to discuss the social and economic situation in the region arising from the French policy. On May 6, 1871 was the date fixed for the meeting to kubba (*) of the saint Sidi Ahmed Benyoucef, near the region of Souk el Had.\n\nThe meeting s'achev on the decision, as a first step, to assassinate gang bosses allied to France. All present agreed on the need to eliminate El Mouloud El Habbouchi, regarded as the man in the hand of France in the region. However, France, rightly fearing the reaction of people worked to get his resignation and he was replaced on 20 May 187, by Mohammed Said El Ghobrini, which was on the list of people to be slaughtered and prepared by the participants of the meeting , May 6, 1871. The designation of the latter provoked discontent and anger of the people whose chouyoukhs met again on 28 and 29 June 1871 for agreeing to assassinate Said El Ghobrini. However, the chairman of the bureau Arabic, Mr VARLOUD, prevented this by the appointment of a new caïd, namely Mouloud El Ben Abidi, who was also rejected because he did not belong to the region of Beni Menasra . But the Governor General De Gueydon maintained his decision to appoint Ben El Mouloud, which ratcheted up the discontent of the people against this policy.\n\n-2 - The second stage\n\nLassés of politics Governor General De Gueydon, residents of Beni Menaceur decided to move to the crucial stage of the battle, July 13, 1871. The starting point was the region Théniet el Had, and the movement spread to the villages and causing dechras popular support. Ben Abidi and Mouloud El Said El Ghobrini quickly to inform the colonial authorities of this popular movement and what happened at the meeting at which the decision was taken revolutionary. This enabled the French authorities to take measures to cope with the events.\n\n-3 - Third stage\n\nIt was imperative for the elders and chouyoukhs of Beni Menaceur to take steps as soon as possible in order not to lose the leadership of the business and provide an opportunity for the occupation authorities to nip in the bud the revolt. To this end, it was agreed to appoint Sheikh Malek El Berkani, as leader after the betrayal of El Ghobrini and Ben Mouloud El was proved. The title of agha fighters he was awarded and the troops were divided into three groups:\n\n-- The main group headed by Malek El Berkani, assisted by his brother and Brahim Mustapha ibn Mohammed Oudjelloul Abdelmalek and was given the task to head on Cherchell, headquarters of the occupation authority and the attack.\n\n-- A second group, called Beni Menaceur East, the command was given to Oukerjouj Ali ibn Ahmed, a friend of El Berkani and that was one of the prominent leaders of the revolt, was instructed to head for the region Zourikh .\n-- A third group, called Blessed Ménaceur West whose command was given to Ahmed Ouddadi, attended by heads of douars and dechras and was to head for the region Noufi. This step was also characterized by the letters sent by El Berkani Malek, head of the revolt, in many areas, to encourage them to undertake the holy war against infidels. He obtained and the rallying of Kaddour Ben El Moubarek of Koléa and Abdelkader Ben El Mokhtar of Miliana, two strong personalities whose rallying gave a new impetus to revolt, and allowed the fighters to carry out numerous attacks against the enemy and its allies July 17, 1871. Indeed, they faced a troupe led military VARLOUD Captain in the region of Noufi. From there, they headed towards Hadjout, burned the hotel Hammam Righa and killed many french. Faced with the growing phenomenon of revolts and their intensification, the French authorities were forced to send additional troops to Koléa under the command of Colonel DESANDRE. However, these reinforcements n'entamèrent not the determination of fighters led by El Berkani since managed to extend the revolt in the region of Hadjout, coming to the ends of the Capital. During this stage, the revolt recorded many victories against the French and their allies. So on July 23, a number of settlers were killed and burned their factories including a mill and oil, along with fires farms settlers and their plantations erected at the expense of local residents. The day of July 25, 1871 was characterized by attacks by fighters against the troops. This day also took place at the Battle of Bellagh Oued, near Mount Chenoua, at the end of which the combatants were victorious, and they managed to cut water supply to the City of Cherchell and burn some farms of settlers whose firm Nicolas.\n4 - Consequences of Resistance of Beni Menaceur\n\nThe French authorities acquired the conviction that to deal with this uprising, intensified its military presence was necessary. To this end, order was given to its land and sea forces attacking hotbeds of revolt. They came so Miliana, Algiers and Béjaïa under the command of the officer PONSARK. In addition, the French troops led by the officer BOUSQUET, and supported by the escort LAVISO-KLEBER and did DESAX route to the affected areas. From this imbalance in the balance of power, it resulted: -- The death on the field of honour of the leader Malek El Berkani on 02 August 1871 during a battle near the region Zourikh. -- The destruction of the zaouia El Berkani at Miliana. -- The succession of his brother Ibrahim at the head of the revolt he continued committing several battles between 19 and August 20. -- The surrender of the latter on August 21, 1871, which put an end to the revolt. -- The families of the rebels were subjected to severe penalties, including the confiscation of their land, the destruction of their homes, the burning of their property and judgement of many of them by the courts martial and their sentences ranging from life imprisonment with forced labor and deportation.\n\nMade by: Brehim Hendi\n"}
{"id": "664725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=664725", "title": "Metropolitan France", "text": "Metropolitan France\n\nMetropolitan France ( or \"la Métropole\"), also known as European France or Mainland France, is the part of France in Europe. It comprises mainland France and nearby islands in the Atlantic Ocean, the English Channel (), and the Mediterranean Sea, including Corsica. \n\nOverseas France (\"la France d'outre-mer\", or \"l'Outre-mer\", or colloquially \"les DOM-TOM\") is the collective name for the part of France outside Europe: French overseas regions (\"départements et régions d'outre-mer\" or \"DROM\"), territories (\"territoires d'outre-mer\" or \"TOM\"), collectivities (\"collectivités d'outre-mer\" or \"COM\"), and the sui generis collectivity (\"collectivité sui generis\") of New Caledonia.\n\nMetropolitan France and Overseas France together form the French Republic. Metropolitan France accounts for 82.0% of the land territory, 3.3% of the exclusive economic zone (EEZ), and 95.9% of the population of the French Republic.\n\nThe five overseas regions (departments)—Martinique, Guadeloupe, Réunion, French Guiana, and Mayotte—have the same political status as metropolitan France's regions. Metropolitan France and these five overseas regions together are sometimes called \"la France entière\" (\"the whole of France\") by the French administration. But this \"France entière\" does not include the French overseas collectivities and territories that have more autonomy than do the overseas departments.\n\nIn overseas France, a person from metropolitan France is often called a \"métro,\" short for \"métropolitain\".\n\nThe term \"metropolitan France\" dates from the country's colonial period (from the 16th to the 20th century), when France was referred to as \"la Métropole\" (literally \"the Metropolis\"), as distinguished from its colonies and protectorates, known as \"les colonies\" or \"l'Empire\". Similar terms existed to describe other European colonial powers (e.g. \"metropolitan Britain\", \"España metropolitana\"). This application of the words \"metropolis\" and \"metropolitan\" came from Ancient Greek \"metropolis\" (from μήτηρ \"mētēr\" \"mother\" and πόλις \"pólis\" \"city, town\"), which was the name for a city-state that created colonies across the Mediterranean (e.g. Marseille was a colony of the city-state of Phocaea; therefore Phocaea was the \"metropolis\" of Marseille). By extension \"metropolis\" and \"metropolitan\" came to mean \"motherland\", a nation or country as opposed to its colonies overseas.\n\nToday, some people in overseas France object to the use of the term \"la France métropolitaine\" due to its colonial history. They prefer to call it \"the European territory of France\" (le territoire européen de la France), as the Treaties of the European Union do. Likewise, they oppose treating overseas France and metropolitan France as separate entities. For example, INSEE used to calculate its statistics (demography, economy, etc.) for metropolitan France only, and to analyze separate statistics for the overseas departments and territories. People in the overseas departments have opposed this separate treatment, arguing that the then four overseas departments were fully part of France. \n\nAs a result, since the end of the 1990s INSEE has included the four overseas departments in its figures for France (such as total population or GDP). The fifth overseas department, Mayotte, has been included in the figures for France since the mid-2010s too. INSEE refers to metropolitan France and the five overseas departments as \"la France entière\" (\"the whole of France\"). \"The whole of France\" includes the five overseas departments, but does not include the other overseas collectivities and territories that have more autonomy than the departments. Other branches of the French administration may have different definitions of what \"la France entière\" is. For example, in contrast to INSEE, when the Ministry of the Interior releases election results, they use the term \"la France entière\" to refer to the entire French Republic, including all of overseas France, and not just the five overseas departments.\n\nNote that since INSEE now calculates statistics for \"la France entière\", this practice has spread to international institutions. For instance, the French GDP published by the World Bank includes metropolitan France and the five overseas departments. The World Bank refers to this total as \"France\"; it does not use the phrase \"the whole of France\", as INSEE does.\n\nMetropolitan France covers a land area of 543,940 km² (210,016 sq. miles), while overseas France covers a land area of 119,396 km² (46,099 sq. miles), for a total of 663,336 km² (256,115 sq. miles) in the French Republic (excluding Adélie Land in Antarctica where sovereignty is suspended since the signing of the Antarctic Treaty in 1959). Thus, metropolitan France accounts for 82.0% of the French Republic's land territory.\n\nAt sea, the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of metropolitan France covers , while the EEZ of overseas France covers , for a total of in the French Republic (excluding Adélie Land). Thus, metropolitan France accounts for 3.3% of the French Republic's EEZ.\n\nAccording to INSEE, 65,018,000 people lived in metropolitan France as of January 2018, while 2,790,000 lived in overseas France, for a total of 67,808,000 inhabitants in the French Republic. Thus, metropolitan France accounts for 95.9% of the French Republic's population.\n\nIn the second round of the 2017 French presidential election, 35,467,327 French people cast a ballot (meaning a turnout of 74.56%). 33,883,463 of these (95.53% of the total voters) cast their ballots in metropolitan France (turnout: 76.26%), 1,003,910 (2.83% of the total voters) cast their ballots in overseas France (turnout: 53.59%), and 579,954 (1.64% of the total voters) cast their ballots in foreign countries (French people living abroad; turnout: 45.84%).\n\nThe French National Assembly is made up of 577 deputies, 539 of whom (93.4% of the total) are elected in metropolitan France, 27 (4.7% of the total) in overseas France, and 11 (1.9% of the total) by French citizens living in foreign countries.\n\nMainland France (French: \"la France continentale\"), or just \"the mainland\" (French: \"le continent\"), does not include the French islands in the Atlantic Ocean, English Channel or Mediterranean Sea, the largest of which is Corsica.\n\nIn Corsica, people from the mainland part of Metropolitan France are referred to as \"les continentaux\".\n\nA casual synonym for the mainland part of Metropolitan France is \"l'Hexagone\" (\"the Hexagon\"), for its approximate shape, and the adjective \"hexagonal\" may be a casual synonym of French (usually understood as metropolitan only, except in topics related to the foreign affairs and national politics of France as a whole).\n\n"}
{"id": "10643339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10643339", "title": "Mill pond", "text": "Mill pond\n\nA mill pond (or millpond) is a body of water used as a reservoir for a water-powered mill.\n\nMill ponds were often created through the construction of a mill dam or weir (and mill stream) across a waterway.\nIn many places, the common proper name Mill Pond has remained even though the mill has long since gone. It may be fed by a man-made stream, known by several terms including leat and\" 'mill stream'.\" The channel or stream leading from the mill pond is the mill race, which together with weirs, dams, channels and the terrain establishing the mill pond, is the power producing purpose of the civil engineering hydraulic system.\n\nThe term mill pond is often used colloquially and in literature to refer to a very flat body of water. Witnesses of the loss of RMS Titanic reported that the sea was \"like a mill pond\".\n\n"}
{"id": "26832443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26832443", "title": "Northland temperate kauri forest", "text": "Northland temperate kauri forest\n\nThe Northland temperate kauri forests ecoregion, within the temperate broadleaf and mixed forests biome, is in northern New Zealand.\n\nThis ecoregion covers the northern end of North Island. The landscape is flat when compared with most of New Zealand and includes the regions of Northland, Auckland around the city of Auckland and Waikato around the town of Hamilton. Kauri trees are found north of 38°S. The region also includes a number of offshore islands and some of New Zealand's few remaining original wetland habitats such as the Firth of Thames, and the Kopuatai Peat Dome and the Whangamarino swamp in the Hauraki Plains. The climate is warm and humid.\n\nThis area is home to a number of endemic plants especially in regions of Northland such as Cape Reinga and Te Paki which have at times been cut off from the rest of the island by high sea levels. The ecoregion is named for its most notable endemic species, the impressive southern kauri trees, which can grow to 55m high and 20m round and has no lower branches but a long trunk of up to 30m and a wide crown. There are few areas still thickly covered by the kauri forest that once dominated this whole area, but the trees are so huge that they are the most noticeable feature even in woodland where they are present in small numbers. Much of the kauri forest has been cleared for timber and the land converted to agriculture. This region is the southernmost habitat of the kauri and also mangroves. There are more endemic species on the offshore islands such as the Poor Knights Islands and Three Kings Islands, which are home to rare plants including the only species of \"Elingamita\" and others such as \"Pennantia baylisiana\" and Three Kings vine.\n\nThe forests are home to a number of rare birds including the endangered North Island kokako wattlebird, the North Island brown kiwi, and three endemic parrots red-crowned parakeet, the New Zealand kaka and the kakapo, the last of which now only survives on the offshore Little Barrier Island. Invertebrates found in the region include the large wetas and cave wetas.\n\nThis fertile area has long been the most populous part of New Zealand and the original kauri forest has mostly been removed. The logging and gum-tapping that caused this has stopped now and much of the remaining kauri forest is now protected in the Northland region and on the Coromandel Peninsula. The largest stands of kauri are found in Waipoua Forest with another large area in Trounson Kauri Park south of Aranga, both areas are on the west coast of Northland.\n\nWildlife in the region is vulnerable to introduced predators such as the Polynesian rat, ferrets and stoats to the extent that the strongest remaining populations of many plants, birds and reptiles are on offshore islands rather than North Island itself. Some North Island species have been introduced to the offshore as a preservation measure, while other species found there are indigenous to the small islands, including a number of lizards on the Mercury Islands and the Falla's skink on the Three Kings Islands.\n"}
{"id": "16278455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278455", "title": "Outline of Belgium", "text": "Outline of Belgium\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Belgium:\n\nBelgium – sovereign country located in northwest Europe. It is a founding member of the European Union and hosts its headquarters, as well as those of other major international organizations, including NATO.\n\n\nGeography of Belgium\n\nEnvironment of Belgium\n\n\nList of ecoregions in Belgium\n\nAdministrative divisions of Belgium\n\nRegions of Belgium\n\nProvinces of Belgium\n\nMunicipalities of Belgium\n\nBelgium comprises 589 municipalities grouped into five provinces in each of two regions and into a third region, the Brussels-Capital Region, comprising 19 municipalities that do not belong to a province.\n\nDemographics of Belgium\n\nPolitics of Belgium\n\nGovernment of Belgium\n\n\n\nForeign relations of Belgium\n\nThe Kingdom of Belgium is a member of:\n\nLaw of Belgium\n\nMilitary of Belgium\n\nLocal government in Belgium\n\nHistory of Belgium\n\nCulture of Belgium\n\n\nSports in Belgium\n\nEconomy of Belgium\n\nEducation in Belgium\n\nBelgium\n\n"}
{"id": "4349690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4349690", "title": "Politics of Guangdong", "text": "Politics of Guangdong\n\nThe Politics of Guangdong follows a dual party-government system like the rest of China's provinces. Guangdong is known for a surge of legislative activism in recent years, often called the Guangdong Phenomenon (\"Guangdong Xianxiang\"). The Guangdong Provincial People's Congress has enacted measures to increase democracy and transparency, and exert more control over the financial sector. In a well-publicized case in 2000, the Guangdong PPC also harshly criticized the Environmental Protection Bureau for allowing the construction of an electroplating park without a proper environmental impact investigation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22094591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22094591", "title": "Postage stamps and postal history of the Pitcairn Islands", "text": "Postage stamps and postal history of the Pitcairn Islands\n\nThe postal history of the Pitcairn Islands can be traced to second half of the 19th century, when outgoing mail was hand stamped as \"Posted on Pitcairn Island: no stamps available.\" Stamps were carried by passing ships and received postal stamps and cancellation at various ports of calls. However, this practice was discontinued in 1926 following reports of ship passengers mixing their own mail into the “no stamp” system set aside for the Pitcairn residents. \n\nIn June 1927, a postal agency was set up on Pitcairn to sell New Zealand stamps. The first Pitcairn postage stamps, consisting of eight denominations, were issued on October 15, 1940.\nThe New Zealand-based Pitcairn Islands Philatelic Bureau coordinates the territory’s stamp program. The program issues up to six commemorative stamps per year, and new definitive stamps are issued on an average cycle of five years. The sale of philatelic issues has been a source of revenue for the territory.\n\nBelow is a partial list of people on stamps of the Pitcairn Islands arranged in alphabetical order:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "700712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=700712", "title": "Prime Minister of Afghanistan", "text": "Prime Minister of Afghanistan\n\nThe Prime Minister of Afghanistan was a post in the Afghan government. The position was created in 1927 as an official appointed by the King of Afghanistan. The holder served mostly as an advisor, until the end of the Kingdom of Afghanistan in 1973. During the 1980s, the position was the head of government.\n\nThe Chairman of the Council of Ministers was not headed by the Prime Minister, but the King. Only during his absence was the Premier the acting Chairman of the Council. \n\nUntil 1963, King Mohammed Zahir Shah appointed his relatives as prime ministers. King Zahir Shah also had the power to dismiss or transfer the Prime Minister.\n\nThis was changed, stating that the Head of the Afghan Government was the Prime Minister, and that the government consisted of its ministers. It was the first time that King Zahir Shah did not play an important role in the government, leaving it to an elected authority. However, it also stated that they cannot engage in any other profession during their tenure of office.\n\nThe 1964 Constitution also granted the Prime Minister the power to summon the Electoral College in case of the death of the King. The Prime Minister only answered to the Wolesi Jirga about the \"General Policy\" of the government, and individually for their prescribed duties.\n\nIn April 1978, Mohammed Daoud Khan was killed during a coup that started the \"Saur Revolution\". The People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) revived the office of Prime Minister that year, and it remained throughout the 1980s. \n\nThe President was in charge of the appointment of the Prime Minister, who in turn appointed the Council of Ministers. The Council's stated purpose was to formulate and implement domestic and foreign policies, to formulate economic development plans and state budgets, and to ensure public order.\n\nUnder the 1987 Constitution, the President was required to appoint the Prime Minister in order to form the Government. The Prime Minister had the power to dissolve the government. Several Afghan presidents during the Democratic Republic era were also appointed as Prime Minister. With the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the Prime Minister was no longer in charge of the government. The General Secretary of the PDPA or the Director of the KHAD exercised greater power.\n\nAlso, the 1990 Constitution established that only Afghan-born citizens are eligible to hold the office, something that was not specified in the previous documents.\n\nAfter the collapse of Mohammad Najibullah's government, a transitional state was created. Thus, the office of Prime Minister once again played an important role in the history of the nation. \n\nThere was constant friction between the President and the Premier during this period. The State had collapsed and there was not an effective central Government from 1992 until 1996. Thus, the position became \"de facto\" ceremonial, with little power in what was left of the Government.\n\nThe title was abolished when the Taliban forces of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan took over control in 1996. The Deputy Leader of the Taliban was often known as the Prime Minister throughout its rule. With the death of Mohammad Rabbani in 2001, the Taliban decided not to revive the office. \n\nUntil August 1997, the government which the Taliban had ousted, which remained in rebellion until the end of the Taliban rule in 2001, had a Prime Minister in the government, but the position was abolished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1583130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1583130", "title": "Rainbow Bridge (pets)", "text": "Rainbow Bridge (pets)\n\nThe Rainbow Bridge is the theme of several works of poetry written in the 1980s and 1990s that speak of an other-worldly place where pets go upon death, eventually to be reunited with their owners. One is a prose poem whose original creator is uncertain. The other is a six-stanza poem of rhyming pentameter couplets, created by a couple to help ease the pain of friends who lost pets. Each has gained popularity around the world among animal lovers who have lost a pet. The belief has many antecedents, including similarities to the Bifröst bridge of Norse mythology.\n\nThe story tells of a lush green meadow just \"this side of Heaven\" (i.e. before one enters into it). Rainbow Bridge is the name of both the meadow and the adjoining pan-prismatic conveyance connecting it to Heaven.\n\nAccording to the story, when a pet dies, it goes to the meadow, restored to perfect health and free of any injuries. The pet runs and plays all day with the others; there is always fresh food and water, and the sun is always shining. However, it is said that while the pet is at peace and happy, they also miss their owner whom they left behind on Earth.\n\nWhen their owner dies, they too arrive at the meadow, and that is when the pet stops playing, turns, sniffs at the air and looks into the distance where they see their beloved owner. Excited, they run as fast as they can until they are one jump away from their owner's arms. The pet licks its owners in joy while the human looks into the soft eyes of their pet—who might have been absent on Earth, but never absent in their heart. Then side by side, they cross the Rainbow Bridge together into Heaven, never again to be separated.\n\nHaving been circulated widely around the world, the prose poem's original authorship is uncertain. About.com suggests three presently known contenders to the development of the prose poem:\n\nThe genesis of the rhyming poem is straightforward: spouses Diane and Steve Bodofsky operated a ferret rescue that specialized in gravely ill animals and had many friends whose loss of pets were acutely painful; they wrote the poem for them. But when a local veterinarian asked if they could make it the basis of sympathy cards he might send to his patients, the poem gained popularity. The internet widened the restorative power of the poem internationally.\n\nThe concept of a paradise where pets wait for their human owners appeared much earlier, in the little-known sequel to \"Beautiful Joe\", the Margaret Marshall Saunders' book, \"Beautiful Joe's Paradise\". In this green land, the animals do not simply await their owners, but also help each other learn and grow and recover from mistreatment they may have endured in life. But the animals come to this land, and continue to true heaven, not by a bridge but by balloon.\n\nThe first mention of the \"Rainbow Bridge\" story on the internet is a post on the newsgroup \"rec.pets.dogs\", dated 7 January 1993, quoting the poem from a 1992 (or earlier) issue of \"Mid-Atlantic Great Dane Rescue League Newsletter\", which in turn is stated to have quoted it from the Akita Rescue Society of America. Other posts from 1993 suggest it was already well established and being circulated on the Internet at that time, enough for the quotation of even a single line to be expected to be recognized by other newsgroup readers.\n\n"}
{"id": "4404009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4404009", "title": "Side valley", "text": "Side valley\n\nA side valley and a tributary valley are valleys whose brook or river flows into a greater one.\n\nUpstream, the valleys can be classified in an increasing order which is equivalent to the usual orographic order: the tributaries are ordered from those nearest to the source of the river to those nearest to the mouth of the river. A confluence is where two or more tributaries or rivers flow together.\n\nIn the orographic classification (order of rivers) the tributary river has order \"n+1\", if \"n\" describes the primary (or main) river. A river which flows directly into the ocean (e.g. the English rivers Thames or Humber) has the orographic order n=1, the River Ouse n=2, the Wharfe n=3 and so on.\n\nHowever, the term \"side valley\" is used rather for \"higher order valleys\" near the mountains (example above: the Pennines), for the lower valleys often do not show a drastic relief. The reason is a simple one: The \"mainstem river\" (into which the secondary river flows) passes much more water than its tributaries and therefore\n\n\nThe higher the order of a valley, the steeper usually are the hillsides resp. valley slopes. Looking upstream, the steepest slopes are normally near the source of a brook (with the exception of very hard rocks in downstream direction).\n\nThe estuary of broad rivers lies rather in flat regions (river flats) than of rivers in higher elevation. Therefore, the stream gradient of the tributary near its mouth is small (e.g. 1 m per km), but much more at waters of higher order (in the Alps up to 100 m per km). This is one reason for the large number of hanging valleys in some mountain ranges (e.g. Salzburg or Graubünden).\n\nThe others are glaciologic or geologic reasons:\n\n\nAll these stages of valley genesis can be seen in higher mountain ranges - e.g. in the \"young\" Rocky Mountains, in the \"old\" ranges and fjords of Scandinavia, or in the Eastern Alps (Salzach or Inn valley).\n\nWhereas the valleys near the \"river flats\" don't have special forms, the shape of \"alpine\" valleys depends much more from the former glaciology and of the rock type.\n\nLike the main valleys described above, the side- or secondary valley can be V-shaped or U-shaped. Also the valley floor varies - from just a few meters up to some 100 m (e.g. Bad Gastein or St. Moritz, where small towns have been developed instead of 1000 or 1500 m altitude.\n\nSome valleys are stepped in longitudinal direction (German \"Talstufe\") which means that these zones show a quicker current than in average. Therefore, the brook will dig its own narrow canal, and the eroded sediments are deposed at the end of each clammy, forming a series of local plains. They are an important basis of traditional mountain farming because of excellent places for alpine agriculture or pastures.\n\nOrography: The descriptive terms \"right\" or \"left\" side-valley (resp. tributary) always apply from the perspective of looking downstream (in the direction the current is going).\n\nSandbanks often occur at reaches with \"slow\" current, especially near the river banks. Studying the various rock types of the gravel is an excellent and cheap survey for a summarized geology of the rivers watershed (catchment area).\n\nAt most valley forks or stream confluences it is clear which stream is the main river and which is the tributary - as one stream is both much longer and carrying clearly more water than the other. It can, however, happen that one stream is longer, but the other carries more water. This case has no fixed rules to decide. Usually the \"longer valley\" is chosen as the main valley.\n\nBut in lowlands the decision may be arbitrary: in Switzerland the long Alpine Rhine is chosen as the main stream, although the Aar carries more water for her huge midland area. <br>\nIn the case of the Mississippi River (which carries more water) and Missouri River (which is much longer) the choice is made according to the opposite criterion.\n"}
{"id": "499822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=499822", "title": "Sky island", "text": "Sky island\n\nSky islands are isolated mountains surrounded by radically different lowland environments. The term originally referred to those found near the southern borders of Arizona and New Mexico, and has extended to similarly isolated high-altitude forests. The isolation has significant implications for these natural habitats. The American Southwest region began warming up between ∼20,000–10,000 years BP and atmospheric temperatures increased substantially, resulting in the formation of vast deserts that isolated the Sky Islands. Endemism, altitudinal migration, and relict populations are some of the natural phenomena to be found on sky islands.\n\nThe complex dynamics of species richness on sky islands draws attention from the discipline of biogeography, and likewise the biodiversity is of concern to conservation biology. One of the key elements of a sky island is separation by physical distance from the other mountain ranges, resulting in a habitat island, such as a forest surrounded by desert.\n\nSome sky islands serve as refugia for boreal species stranded by warming climates since the last glacial period. In other cases, localized populations of plants and animals tend towards speciation, similar to oceanic islands such as the Galápagos Islands of Ecuador.\n\nThe sky island concept originated in 1943 when Natt N. Dodge, in an article in \"Arizona Highways\" magazine, referred to the Chiricahua Mountains in southeastern Arizona as a \"mountain island in a desert sea\".\n\nIn about the same era, the term was used to refer to high alpine, unglaciated, ancient topographic landform surfaces on the crest of the Sierra Nevada, California. \nThe term was popularized by nature writer Weldon Heald, a resident of southeastern Arizona. In his 1967 book, \"Sky Island\", he demonstrated the concept by describing a drive from the town of Rodeo, New Mexico, in the western Chihuahuan desert, to a peak in the Chiricahua Mountains, away and higher in elevation. Ascending from the hot, arid desert, to grasslands, then to oak-pine woodland, pine forest, and finally to spruce-fir-aspen forest. His book mentions the concept of biome, but prefers the terminology of life zones, and makes reference to the work of Clinton Hart Merriam. The book also describes the wildlife and living conditions of the Chiricahuas.\n\nAround the same time, the idea of mountains as islands of habitat took hold with scientists and has been used by such popular writers as David Quammen and John McPhee. This concept falls within the study of island biogeography. It is not limited to mountains in southwestern North America but can be applied to mountains, highlands, and massifs around the world.\n\nThe Madrean sky islands are probably the most studied sky islands in the world. Found in the U.S. states of New Mexico and Arizona and the Mexican states of Chihuahua and Sonora, these numerous mountains form links in a chain connecting the northern end of the Sierra Madre Occidental and the southern Colorado Plateau. Sky Islands of the central and northern mountains in the United States are often called island ranges, especially by populations within view of such islands of mountains surrounded by plains such as those found within the Wichita Mountains of southwestern Oklahoma.\nSome more northerly examples are the Crazy Mountains, Castle Mountains, Bears Paw Mountains, Highwood Mountains, and Little Rocky Mountains, all in the US state of Montana. Each of these ranges is forested and has tundra and snowpack above treeline, but is not connected to any other range by forested ridges; the ranges are completely surrounded by treeless prairie and/or semi-arid scrubland below. Other well-known sky islands of North America are the Great Basin montane forests, such as the White Mountains in California, and the Spring Mountains near Las Vegas, Nevada. One of the unique aspects of the sky islands of the U.S.-Mexico border region is the mix of floristic affinities, that is, the trees and plants of higher elevations are more characteristic of northern latitudes, while the flora of the lower elevations has ties to the desert and the mountains further south. Some unique plants and animals are found in these sky islands, such as the mountain yucca, Mount Graham red squirrel, Huachuca springsnail, and Jemez Mountains salamander.\n\nSome montane species apparently evolved within their current range, adapting to their local environment, such as the Mount Lyell shrew. However, it has also been noted that some isolated mountain ecosystems have a tendency to lose species over time, perhaps because small, insularized populations are vulnerable to the forces of extinction, and the isolation of the habitat reduces the possibility of colonization by new species. Furthermore, some species, such as the grizzly bear, require a range of habitats. These bears historically made use of the forests and meadows found in the Madrean sky islands, as well as lower-elevation habitats such as riparian zones. (Grizzlies were extirpated from the region in the 20th century.) Seasonal movements between highland and lowland habitats can be a kind of migration, such as that undertaken by the mountain quail of the Great Basin mountains. These birds live in high elevations when free of snow, and instead of migrating south for the winter, they migrate \"down\".\n\nConfusing the matter somewhat is the potential for an archipelago of sky islands or even the valleys between them to act not only as a barrier to biological dispersal, but also as a path for migration. Examples of birds and mammals making use of the Madrean archipelago to extend their ranges northward are the elegant trogon and white-nosed coati.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27835103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27835103", "title": "Spagnuolo", "text": "Spagnuolo\n\nSpagnuolo is an Italian surname, meaning literally \"Spanish or \"from Spain\" and may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "505751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=505751", "title": "Strait of Anián", "text": "Strait of Anián\n\nThe Strait of Anián was a semi-mythical strait, documented from around 1560, that was believed by early modern cartographers to mark the boundary between North America and Asia and to permit access to a Northwest Passage from the Arctic Ocean to the Pacific. The true strait was discovered in 1728 and became known as the Bering Strait. The Strait of Anián had been generally placed nearby but sometimes appeared as far south as California.\n\nThe source of this idea is unknown. The Martin Waldseemüller map of 1506 or 1507 shows America and Asia separated. A 1562 map by Paolo Forlani shows Asia and North America joined north of about the latitude of San Diego. The strait probably took its name from Ania, a Chinese province mentioned in a 1559 edition of Marco Polo's book. The name probably first appeared on a map issued by the Italian cartographer Giacomo Gastaldi in 1562. It appeared on maps by Abraham Ortelius (1564), Bolognini Zaltieri (1567) and Gerardus Mercator (1567). The Zaltieri and Gastaldi maps show it narrow and crooked. Gastaldi and Ortelius have an \"Ania\" or \"Anian\" on the east side of the strait. A speculative map of 1578 shows Frobisher Strait extending all the way across Canada and ending at the Strait of Anian. Juan de Fuca, a Greek navigator, sailed in a Spanish expedition in 1592 to seek the fabled Strait of Anián. A 1719 map by Herman Moll shows the strait as a probable bay at 50° North north of an Island of California. The 1728 edition of a map by Johannes van Keulen shows the strait north of the Island of California with the note that 'they say that one can come through this strait to Hudson Bay, but this is not proven.'\n\nFor related concepts see Early knowledge of the Pacific Northwest. For more early maps see Shangdu (Xanadu) and Cathay.\n"}
{"id": "200161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200161", "title": "Stream gauge", "text": "Stream gauge\n\nA stream gauge, streamgage or gauging station is a location used by hydrologists or environmental scientists to monitor and test terrestrial bodies of water. Hydrometric measurements of water level surface elevation (\"stage\") and/or volumetric discharge (flow) are generally taken and observations of biota and water quality may also be made. The location of gauging stations are often found on topographical maps. Some gauging stations are highly automated and may include telemetry capability transmitted to a central data logging facility.\n\nAutomated direct measurement of streamflow discharge is difficult at present. In place of the direct measurement of streamflow discharge, one or more surrogate measurements can be used to produce discharge values. In the majority of cases, a stage (the elevation of the water surface) measurement is used as the surrogate. Low gradient (or shallow-sloped) streams are highly influenced by variable downstream channel conditions. For these streams, a second stream gauge would be installed, and the slope of the water surface would be calculated between the gauges. This value would be used along with the stage measurement to more accurately determine the streamflow discharge. Within the last ten years, the technological advance of velocity sensors has allowed the use of water velocity as a reliable surrogate for streamflow discharge at sites with a stable cross-sectional area. These sensors are permanently mounted in the stream and measure velocity at a particular location in the stream and related to flow in a manner similar to the use of traditional water level.\n\nIn those instances where only a stage measurement is used as the surrogate, a rating curve must be constructed. A rating curve is the functional relation between stage and discharge. It is determined by making repeated discrete measurements of streamflow discharge using a velocimeter and some means to measure the channel geometry to determine the cross-sectional area of the channel. The technicians and hydrologists responsible for determining the rating curve visit the site routinely, with special trips to measure the hydrologic extremes (floods and droughts), and make a discharge measurement by following an explicit set of instructions.\n\nOnce the rating curve is established, it can be used in conjunction with stage measurements to determine the volumetric streamflow discharge. This record then serves as an assessment of the volume of water that passes by the stream gauge and is useful for many tasks associated with hydrology.\n\nIn those instances where a velocity measurement is additionally used as a surrogate, an index velocity determination is conducted. This analysis uses a velocity sensor, often either magnetic or acoustic, to measure the velocity of the flow at a particular location in the stream cross section. Once again, discrete measurements of streamflow discharge are made by the technician or hydrologist at a variety of stages. For each discrete determination of streamflow discharge, the mean velocity of the cross section is determined by dividing streamflow discharge by the cross-sectional area. A rating curve, similar to that used for stage-discharge determinations, is constructed using the mean velocity and the index velocity from the permanently mounted meter. An additional rating curve is constructed that relates stage of the stream to cross-sectional area. Using these two ratings, the automatically collected stage produces an estimate of the cross-sectional area, and the automatically collected index velocity produces an estimate of the mean velocity of the cross section. The streamflow discharge is computed as the estimate of the cross section area and the estimate of the mean velocity of the streamflow.\n\nA variety of hydraulic structures / primary device are used to improve the reliability of using water level as a surrogate for flow (improving the accuracy of the rating table), including:\n\nOther equipment commonly used at permanent stream gauge include:\n\nWater level gauges:\n\nDischarge measurements of a stream or canal without an established stream gage can be made using a current meter or Acoustic Doppler current profiler. One informal methods that is not acceptable for any official or scientific purpose, but can be useful is the float method, in which a floating object such as a piece of wood or orange peel is observed floating down the stream.\n\nThe first routine measurements of river flow in England began on the Thames and Lea in the 1880s, and in Scotland on the River Garry in 1913. The national gauging station network was established in its current form by the early 1970s and consists of approximately 1500 flow measurement stations supplemented by a variable number of temporary monitoring sites. The Environment Agency is responsible for collection and analysis of hydrometric data in England and Wales, whilst responsibility for Scotland and Northern Ireland rests with the Scottish Environment Protection Agency and Rivers Agency respectively.\n\nIn the United States, the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) is the principal federal agency tasked with maintaining records of natural resources. Within the USGS, the Water Resources Division carries the responsibility for monitoring water resources.\n\nTo establish a stream gauge, USGS personnel first choose a site on a stream where the geometry is relatively stable and there is a suitable location to make discrete direct measurements of streamflow using specialized equipment. Many times this will be at a bridge or other stream crossing. Technicians then install equipment that measures the stage (the elevation of the water surface) or, more rarely, the velocity of the flow. Additional equipment is installed to record and transmit these readings (via the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite) to the Water Science Center office where the records are kept. The USGS has a Water Science Center office in every state within the United States. Current streamflow data from USGS streamgages may be viewed in map form at: .\n\nIn Zimbabwe, the national stream gauge network is the responsibility of the Zimbabwe National Water Authority. This is an extensive network covering all major rivers and catchments in the country. However, a review of existing gauges raised serious concerns about the reliability of the data of a minority of stations, due in part to ongoing funding problems.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, in some measuring places (profiles) are defined three levels which define three degrees of flood-emergency activity. The degree I is a situation of alertness, the degree II is a situation of readiness, the degree III is a situation of danger.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43125552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43125552", "title": "Topographia Galliae", "text": "Topographia Galliae\n\nTopographia Galliae (1655–1661) is a German-language series of illustrated books created by engraver Matthäus Merian and writer Martin Zeiler, and published in Frankfurt. It describes cities and towns in 17th-century France. Wenceslaus Hollar also contributed engravings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2111401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2111401", "title": "Tourist trap", "text": "Tourist trap\n\nA tourist trap is an establishment, or group of establishments, that has been created or re-purposed with the aim of attracting tourists and their money. Tourist traps will typically provide services, entertainment, food, souvenirs and other products for tourists to purchase.\n\nWhile some establishments may be viewed by tourists as fun and interesting diversions, tourist traps can also have negative connotations when they direct travelers off highways into commercial areas.\n\nIn some areas, simple facilities may be a sufficient draw to entice tourists to stop. Wall Drug, in South Dakota, began its tourist trade simply by offering ice water.\n\nBreezewood, Pennsylvania represents a physical tourist trap at the intersection of Interstate 70 and Interstate 76, where the two major highways are not directly connected; forcing transiting drivers off the interstate and \"into several suddenly urban blocks with traffic lights and a dense bazaar of gas stations, fast food restaurants and motels.\"\n\nA few establishments take pride in the term and embody it into their names, such as \"Da Yoopers Tourist Trap\", run by the comedy troupe Da Yoopers in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, and \"The Tourist Trap\" at Deep Creek Lake, Maryland.\n\nClifton Hill, Niagara Falls is a popular tourist trap in Niagara Falls, Ontario. The street attractions are owned by two entities. The area also extends to a small portion north of Victoria Avenue east and west of Clifton Hill and Centre Street north of Victoria Avenue.\n\nThere are a large number of \"big things\" in Australia. Many of those were initially created as Tourist Traps, but have gained cult status in the country since.\n\n"}
{"id": "6658764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6658764", "title": "Vuosaari Harbour", "text": "Vuosaari Harbour\n\nVuosaari Harbour (\"Vuosaaren satama\" in Finnish; \"Nordsjö hamn\" in Swedish) is a seaport facility in Helsinki, Finland, opened in November 2008. It is also 19th tallest building in Finland. \n\nThe harbour, located in the suburb of Vuosaari in East Helsinki, handles goods traffic for the Greater Helsinki region, while passenger services remain in Helsinki city centre. Vuosaari Harbour has assumed the operations of two container harbours, West Harbour in the city centre and Sörnäinen Harbour, and will eventually also replace the oil harbour in Laajasalo. In addition, the railway depot in Pasila currently used by goods transport will be moved northwards. These processes release land for commercial and residential redevelopment.\n\nThe harbour has a total land area of 150 hectares, including 90 hectares of land reclaimed by filling the sea. There is also a 75-hectare business park next to the harbour. The harbour project also included the extension of Ring III to the new seaport and a new railway line to be used for transporting goods in and out of the harbour.\n\nThe Vuosaari harbour was built on the site of the former Vuosaari shipyard.\n\n"}
